-- NFL's Patriots Highlight Eroding Sports Ethics: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2007-09-19T04:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-19/nfl-s-patriots-highlight-eroding-sports-ethics-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             At the core of what athletes do, of
why we watch and cheer and admire, is the notion of a just
outcome.  
 Above all else, a level playing field is required to
determine which team or individual is superior on that
particular day. May the better team win.  
 That is the essence of competition and fair play. Sports
are supposed to be about skill and smarts. And, of course,
preparation and execution.  
 There's no room for cheats. Or is there?  
 The most telling part of the Bill Belichick Tapegate affair
isn't what the New England Patriots coach did, which was to
violate a league rule by sending one of his minions to videotape
the hand signals of opposing coaches.  
 Belichick apologized in a statement distributed by the
Patriots. I'm sorry, he said. That's it. No explanation. No
details. No nothing.  
 As former National Football League quarterback Boomer Esiason said, ``He's sorry he got caught.''  
 Truth be told, Belichick's unnecessary (did you see Sunday
night's romp over the  San Diego Chargers ?) skirting of the rules
isn't the most telling part of the story. Even more
disheartening and illuminating was the reaction from around the
league.  
 No Surprise  
 We glean much more about the psyche of athletes and coaches
and owners from Belichick's opponents, from what they said and
didn't say. Besides Commissioner  Roger Goodell , who fined
Belichick the maximum allowable, $500,000, and docked the
Patriots a draft pick or two, no one seemed all that surprised
at the shenanigans. The idea of cheating to gain a competitive
edge has, seemingly, become an accepted part of the games
athletes play.  
 ``We're a society that rarely expresses its moral outrage
when we see somebody doing something wrong,'' said Richard Lapchick, director of Central Florida University's Institute for
Diversity and Ethics in Sport.  
 Sadly, it's time for Lapchick to rename his  institute ,
whose name implies that ethics still exist in sport. If, indeed,
it does, then it's in short supply.  
 After a recent column a Bloomberg client e-mailed my editor
to question whether I'm a sports commentator or athletic moral
arbiter.  
 The answer is both.  
 After all, what value exists in the games we watch absent
the same rules for all involved?  
 Sordid Tally  
 Let's take a spin through the sordid side of sports.  
 Nascar: There's a saying around the racetrack -- If you
ain't cheating, you ain't trying. Whatever it is that a
restrictor plate is supposed to restrict, you can bet a crew
chief will find a way to make it less restrictive.  
 Formula One: Talk about espionage. Last week McLaren
Mercedes, the leading team in the Formula One championship, was
fined $100 million for spying. The International Automobile
Federation, the sport's governing body, found McLaren guilty of
cheating by using data improperly obtained from rival Ferrari.  
 Basketball: Stung by a referee betting scandal.  
 Baseball, track & field and cycling: Plagued by the use of
performance-enhancing drugs.  
 Tennis: Investigating possible match-fixing.  
 Chess: Yes, chess. In July, two players at the World Open
in Philadelphia were suspected of cheating. One was found with a
wireless receiver in his ear and was banned from tournament play
for three years by the United States Chess Federation.  
 Good grief. Even chess.  
 One Last Look  
 ``I fear we've passed the tipping point,'' Lapchick said.  
 On the bright side, Patriots owner Bob Kraft said he was
unaware of Belichick's wrongdoing.  
 ``This isn't what we're about,'' Kraft said in an NBC
interview during halftime of Sunday's 38-14 thrashing of the
Chargers. ``It won't happen again.''  
 Excuse us, Mr. Kraft, for not taking your word as gospel.
After all, Belichick, absent his sorry-for-something statement,
refuses to discuss the matter. It's in the past, he says. It's
an internal matter. Move on.  
 Before we do, however, let's take one last look back.  
 Following New England's annihilation of the Chargers a
number of players, including quarterback  Tom Brady , the face of
the franchise, made a point of giving their beleaguered coach a
pat on the back, a rub of the head or some form of unspoken
attaboy.  
 ``He's always had our backs,'' running back Laurence Maroney said. ``Now we have his.''  
 The Patriots won. Fair and square.  
 That isn't always the case these days.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bill Belichick, head coach of the New England Patriots, paces along the sidelines prior to the start of the Patriots' game against the San Diego Chargers at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts, Sept. 16, 2007.  Photographer: Rhona Wise/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
