-- `Bullet' Mortgage Bonds May Cut Australian Bank Funding Costs, RBS Says
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m
-- 2010-10-26T03:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/-bullet-mortgage-bonds-may-cut-australian-bank-funding-costs-rbs-says.html
Australian banks should issue
mortgage bonds that can’t be paid off before maturity to help
attract investors as government support for securitization draws
to a close, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The so-called bullet residential mortgage-backed securities
would have an underlying pool of loans to be topped up over the
life of the note to maintain fixed payments to bondholders, RBS
analysts including  John Manning  and  Andrew Lyons  wrote in a
research report.  By removing the prepayment risk, and with some initial
government support, the securities would “price slightly below
senior unsecured debt” and be an “attractive option” for the
nation’s banks, they wrote.  Australia’s four biggest lenders have to sell as much as
A$150 billion ($149 billion) of long-term bonds annually to fund
themselves, according to Moody’s Investors Service. The nations
banks are seeking to cut borrowing costs and develop more
funding sources after the mortgage-bond market froze in 2008
amid the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  “Higher bank funding costs are one of the major outcomes
of the global financial crisis and the subsequent economic
environment,” Commonwealth Bank of Australia Chief Executive
Officer  Ralph Norris  said in an address to the lender’s annual
general meeting today, according to statement filed to the
Australian stock exchange.  Credit Freeze  The Australian Office of Financial Management has  bought 
more than A$11.5 billion of residential mortgage-backed notes
since the credit freeze to help home-loan providers that rely on
securitization for funding, according to its website.  The AOFM program is unsustainable and coming to an end, the
RBS analysts wrote. “A more effective way for the government to
support securitization in Australia” would be to “initially
provide liquidity support to the developing bullet RMBS
market.”  The underlying mortgage pool would be “topped up as loans
get repaid to maintain a fixed payment to the holder, removing
the prepayment risk” inherent in RMBS, according to the report.  Higher-than-expected prepayments typically return more of
bondholders’ money when new investments carry lower yields, and
may cause investors losses if they bought notes above face value.  With government support, the bullet RMBS may classify as
level two liquid assets under new capital rules announced last
month by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the
analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  