-- Airline Passengers Fail to Realize Some Trips Flown by Partners
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-10-26T19:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/-confusing-regional-airline-role-needs-review-ntsb-says.html
U.S. airline passengers buy tickets
from carriers such as  Continental Airlines  without realizing
their flight may be aboard regional partners that are being
scrutinized for safety practices, a safety board was told.  A document confirming a flight for Elly Kausner, who died
when a regional carrier’s plane crashed near Buffalo, New York,
last year, thanked her for flying Continental, her father, John,
said at a National Transportation Safety Board hearing today.  The document “says nothing about Colgan Air,” the unit of
 Pinnacle Airlines Corp.  that flew the fatal fight on behalf of
Continental, John Kausner said.  Kausner was among the witnesses as the NTSB examines the
business relationships between airlines and their smaller
partners, and what the airlines and federal regulators are doing
to ensure all types of airlines are held to safety standards.  “This myriad of relationships can be confusing to the
traveling public,” NTSB Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said on the
first day of hearings. “We need to know more, and the public
needs to know more.”  Passengers may check in at an airport ticket counter run by
 Delta Air Lines Inc.  or  United Continental Holdings Inc.  and see
those carriers’ names painted on planes, only to realize later
the flights are made by Comair or Air Wisconsin Airlines Corp.,
Hersman said.  Safety practices at regional carriers, which account for
about half of all scheduled U.S. passenger flights, have been
under scrutiny by the Federal Aviation Administration, Congress
and the NTSB following the Colgan crash that killed 50 people.  Six Fatal Crashes  The carriers have been involved in the last six commercial
airline accidents with fatalities on board, the Transportation
Department’s inspector general,  Calvin Scovel , said in  testimony 
in June 2009.  Regional carriers and their partners must meet identical
safety regulations and there “absolutely” is one level of
safety in the industry, Roger Cohen, president of the Regional
Airline Association, a Washington trade group for the small
airlines, told the NTSB.  “Safety is the No. 1 concern,” Cohen said. It would be
“crummy business” for any airline to do anything to compromise
safety.  Kevin Mitchell , chairman of the Business Travel Coalition,
presented survey results today showing two-thirds of corporate
travel managers report fliers saying safety differences exist
between large airlines and smaller partners.  About eight in 10 of those fliers avoid turboprop aircraft,
according to Mitchell, whose group is based in Radnor,
Pennsylvania. He said he surveyed 212 travel managers, agents
and other professionals from Oct. 14 through Oct. 22.  ‘Much Higher Airfares’  “A majority of corporations indicate that they would be
willing to pay much higher airfares in return for higher safety
standards at the regional airlines,” Mitchell said in his
survey findings.  Airlines should be responsible for ensuring that pilots at
their regional partners meet all the same experience and
training requirements of the big carrier, Kausner told the
board.  The two pilots who flew the Colgan plane to Buffalo “could
not have flown for Continental, they weren’t qualified,” he
said at a news conference with about 25 relatives of people who
died in the crash.  The NTSB said in February that Captain Marvin Renslow of
Colgan caused his plane to crash by incorrectly responding to a
cockpit stall warning. Everyone aboard the plane died, along
with one person on the ground.  In addition to the Colgan accident, a regional jet flown by
Delta’s Comair unit crashed in 2006 in Lexington, Kentucky,
killing 49. The pilots erred in choosing a runway too short for
a safe takeoff, the NTSB concluded.  A Corporate Airlines flight, on behalf of  AMR Corp. ’s
American Airlines, crashed in 2004 and killed 13 people in
Kirksville, Missouri, after pilots didn’t follow procedures and
flew too low into trees, according to the NTSB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 liebert@bloomberg.net . 