-- `New Normal' Odds Stand at 55%, Pimco's El-Erian Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-26T15:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/-new-normal-economy-odds-stand-at-55-pimco-s-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
Mohamed El-Erian , who popularized
the “new normal” term to describe Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s view that the global economy has entered a period of
slower growth and lower investment returns, said the scenario
isn’t such a sure bet.  The likelihood of a new normal outcome is 55 percent,
according to the chief executive officer of the Newport Beach,
California-based company, who highlighted the term in a 2008
book.  “It is our base case, but it’s not our dominant case,”
El-Erian, co-chief investment officer of the firm that runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, said in an interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “We are looking at a world where
there are many possible outcomes. It’s no longer like the old
days when we can be confident in just one outcome.”  El-Erian, 52, described new normal in his book, “When
Markets Collide: Investment Strategies for the Age of Global
Economic Change.” He said investors should expect lower-than-
average historical returns with heightened regulation, lower
consumption, slower growth and a shrinking global role for the
U.S. economy.  Looking Out  “The new normal goes out about three to five years,” El-
Erian said. Investors should expect four to six percent returns
on average and gains will come in a “volatile” fashion, he
said.  The worst recession since the 1930s ended in June 2009, the
National Bureau of Economic Research’s Business Cycle Dating
Committee said on Sept. 20. At the same time, the panel “did
not conclude that economic conditions since that month have been
favorable or that the economy has returned to operating at
normal capacity,” according to a  statement .  As part of adjusting to a new normal, Pimco began offering
equity funds to investors in April, and had inflows of about $1
billion from since that time, El-Erian said on Sept. 10. The
firm moved into stocks to allow customers to diversify their
holdings as the global economy changes and areas such as
emerging markets outperform developed regions.  Pimco’s $252 billion  Total Return Fund  handed investors a
gain of about 11.87 percent in the past year, beating roughly 76
percent of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE, managed $1.1
trillion of assets as of June 30.  Treasuries have returned 8.8 percent this year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index has climbed 6.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  