-- Abu Dhabi Commercial Third-Quarter Net Surges Seven-Fold; Beats Estimates
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-26T12:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/abu-dhabi-commercial-quarterly-net-surges-to-88-million-beats-estimates.html
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC 
reported a seven-fold increase in third-quarter profit, topping
analysts’ estimates, as trading income at the United Arab
Emirates’ third-biggest bank rose and bad loan charges dropped.  Net income rose to 325 million dirhams ($88 million) from
44 million dirhams a year earlier, the bank said in a statement
today. The median estimate of  six analysts  was for a profit of
195.5 million dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This has been a record quarter in terms of operating
income,” Chief Executive Officer  Ala’a Eraiqat  said in the
statement. “We are seeing good momentum in the business.”  U.A.E. banks are recovering after the financial crisis
slowed lending, hurt investment banking and led to an increase
in bad loans. Emirates NBD PJSC, the U.A.E.’s biggest bank,
reported a 60 percent drop in third-quarter profit, missing
analysts’ estimates, as it set aside more money to cover bad
loans, including those to Dubai World. National Bank of Abu
Dhabi PJSC, the nation’s second-biggest bank, reported a 1
percent rise in third-quarter profit, missing estimates.  Abu Dhabi Commercial is owed 6.6 billion dirhams by state-
owned Dubai World, which is seeking to alter terms on $24.9
billion of debt. The bank is also one of the biggest lenders to
Saudi Arabia’s Saad and Algosaibi business groups, which
defaulted on at least $15.7 billion of loans last year.  Impairments Fall  The lender’s non-interest income, including from trading,
investments and fees, rose 37 percent to 574 million dirhams, it
said. Impairment charges for bad loans fell to 656 million
dirhams from 810 million dirhams a year ago, taking the bank’s
non-performing loans ratio to 5.5 percent, the bank said.  Abu Dhabi Commercial aims to diversify lending after being
hurt by Dubai World’s debt restructuring, Eraiqat said in an
interview in London on Oct. 20. The lesson “for all banks is
sticking to certain diversified thresholds,” he said.  The bank said its loans grew 4 percent at the end of
September from December, while deposits 17 percent. The lender
added about 250,000 customers and became one of the top three
credit card issuers after completing the acquisition of the
U.A.E. retail operations of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  The shares  have advanced 59 percent this year compared with
a 3 percent gain in the benchmark  ADX General Index . The shares
didn’t trade today and closed unchanged at 2.48 dirhams in Abu
Dhabi trading yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net . 