-- Afghan Police Projects Are Poor Quality, Over Cost, Audit Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-10-26T17:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/afghan-police-projects-are-poor-quality-over-cost-audit-says.html
Six Afghan national police buildings
in Helmand and Khandahar provinces have construction
deficiencies because of poor  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
oversight and contractor performance, according to an audit.  The U.S. has spent $27 billion since 2002 to train Afghan
security forces. The fiscal 2010 and pending fiscal 2011 defense
bills call for spending an additional $14 billion to add to the
police force and Afghan Army.  The projects were hampered by a contract award to an
inexperienced Afghan firm, Kabul-based Basirat Construction,
wrote Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction
 Arnold Fields .  “The construction was poor,” including low-quality
concrete and inadequate roofing installation, Fields concluded
in the audit set for release tomorrow. “We observed structural
issues that cast doubt on the facilities’ ability to withstand
an earthquake as required by the contract.”  The project also was hindered by the fact that the building
sites are in remote and less secure locations, resulting in 36
months of inadequate oversight, Fields wrote.  Once completed, the facilities are to support 120 police
each, including prisoner cells, housing, food preparation areas
and latrines with showers.  U.S. and NATO troops are fighting the Taliban in these
provinces, with a goal to secure the population and establish
the rule of law.  Construction Deficiencies  Training, equipping and housing the Afghan police is a goal
of the U.S. counter-insurgency strategy. The police are on track
to reach 109,000 by December and 134,000 personnel by December
2011, according to a White House  report  to Congress this month.  The strategy could be slowed if police facilities fail to
meet construction requirements. The U.S. Army Corps needs to
improve contractor oversight to “safeguard U.S. reconstruction
funds and provide suitable facilities,” Fields wrote.  The U.S. government may be responsible for at least $1
million in repair costs to address the construction
deficiencies, Fields wrote.  The $5.9 million contract awarded in May 2007 to Basirat
Construction originally called for completion of all six
facilities by January 2009 but the completion date is now
unknown, the audit said.  As of May, the company has been paid more than 90 percent
of the contract’s value, so it has “a reduced incentive to
continue with construction and correct known deficiencies,” the
audit said.  Mohan Singh, a Corps official, said “construction at each
site did not meet all contract requirements” and said
“corrective actions are under way.”  The firm “is committed to correcting all deficient work
and completing the remaining facilities,” he said.  Singh said Corps personnel will continue to monitor the
project. He said they don’t agree with the conclusion that the
facilities have suspect structural integrity and are “confident
the facilities will not fail during a seismic event.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at   acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  