-- Thailand Increases Aid for Flood Victims as Bangkok Strengthens Defenses
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-26T11:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/thai-government-says-death-toll-from-flooding-in-34-provinces-rises-to-40.html
Thailand’s government approved a 2.9
billion baht ($97 million) special budget to help victims of the
nation’s worst flooding in five decades, as authorities in
Bangkok worked to strengthen the city’s defenses.  The government will give 5,000 baht to each family in some
of the worst-hit areas as part of its wider relief effort, Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said today after a Cabinet meeting.  Thailand’s floods have spread to a third of the country,
leaving 56 dead since Oct. 10, according to the Emergency
Medical Institute of Thailand. The government said today that
output from the main rice crop may fall 6.5 percent, and
Kasikornbank Pcl warned the disaster may shave 1 percentage
point from the nation’s economic growth in the fourth quarter.  At least 2.8 million people have been affected by the
floods, and water has damaged 3.2 million rai (1.3 million acres)
of agricultural land, the Department of Disaster Prevention and
Mitigation said today in a statement. Floodwaters have receded
in nine provinces, leaving 25 still affected, it said.  Authorities in Bangkok are reinforcing the city’s flood-
protection system amid concern the Chao Phraya river may
overflow as tides peak, the Nation newspaper  reported .  United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon , who stopped
in Bangkok today on a four-nation tour, expressed his “deep
profound sympathy” to the flood victims.  “It is a stark reminder of the reality of climate
change,” he told reporters in Bangkok, adding that he discussed
with Abhisit ways the UN could work with Southeast Asian nations
to address global warming.  Bangkok Spared  Bangkok escaped floods because of a lower-than-expected
high-tide earlier today, Agence France-Presse reported, citing
the city’s Governor,  Sukhumbhand Paribatra , who inspected the
situation by helicopter.  Cyclones and higher-than-normal monsoon rains have deluged
parts of Southeast Asia this month, killing hundreds of people
and affecting millions in key rice-producing regions. More than
84 people were killed in Myanmar when Tropical Cyclone Giri
lashed the country’s west coast at the weekend, the  Irrawaddy 
reported today, citing local residents.  Rice production in Thailand, the world’s biggest exporter
of the grain, may fall by at least 1.5 million metric tons from
last year’s 23 million tons,  Prasert Gosalvitra , head of the
Rice Department, said by phone from Bangkok today.  The government has halted sales of rice from state
stockpiles because of concern that floods will damage crops and
reduce production of the grain, deputy government spokesman
Marut Masayawanit said at a briefing today.  Damage from flooding may cut gross domestic product by 1
percentage point in the fourth quarter and by 0.24 percentage
point for the full year, Kasikorn Research Center said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  