-- Air France-KLM Raises Forecast on Improved Bookings
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-26T17:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/air-france-klm-raises-full-year-operating-profit-outlook-on-more-bookings.html
Air France-KLM Group , Europe’s
biggest airline, forecast a full-year operating profit on
resurgent bookings, even after a volcanic eruption wiped away
158 million euros ($219 million) in earnings.  The airline raised its target to reflect “the revenue
performance of recent months, together with the current level of
forward bookings,” Air France said in a statement today. The
company had previously pledged to reach breakeven before the
deduction of the impact from April’s Icelandic volcano eruption.  “It seems they’ve had a strong quarter and have good
visibility to the end of the year -- particularly in premium
bookings,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo Securities in
Paris. “We’re likely to see some upgrades from analysts.”  The  International Air Transport Association  has tripled its
forecast this year for 2010 airline profit to $8.9 billion
globally as travel increases, the association said Sept. 21. The
eight biggest U.S. carriers, including United Airlines,
Continental Airlines and Southwest Airlines Co., last week
posted their highest profit in three years on rising fares.  Air France , which is due to publish first-half results Nov.
17, described in July its previous goal for the year ending
March 31, 2011 as “prudent.” Analysts are  projecting  operating
profit of 77.5 million euros in the current fiscal year,
according to the average of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The biggest surprise here is the timing, given that
they’re publishing results in less than three weeks,” Derocles
said.  Air France and other European carriers suffered financially
from the Eyjafjallajökull volcano’s eruption, which closed most
of the region’s airspace for six days in April, grounding
100,000 flights.  Air France has jumped 19 percent on the Paris exchange this
year. The  shares  fell 17 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 13.12 euros
at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  