-- Malaysia Sukuk Revival Turning to Individual Bond Buyers: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-10-26T08:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/malaysia-sukuk-revival-turning-to-individual-bond-buyers-islamic-finance.html
Malaysia plans to let issuers sell
to individual investors sukuk that can be traded on the local
stock exchange as the government seeks to reverse a 24 percent
decline in sales in the world’s biggest market for Islamic bonds.  Bursa Malaysia Bhd. , the exchange operator, is working with
regulators on rules to enable companies to issue Islamic debt
that would be affordable to the public, Chief Executive Officer
 Yusli Yusoff  said in an e-mailed reply to questions last week.
Issuance of the securities fell to 19.8 billion ringgit ($6.4
billion) this year from 26.2 billion ringgit in 2009, the
steepest drop since 2003, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Malaysia, which accounts for more than 60 percent of the
$130 billion of outstanding sukuk, is turning to the public
after enticing Islamic funds run by Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc and Franklin Templeton Investments with tax breaks. The new
bonds will broaden the investor base and improve pricing for
Islamic debt, which pay asset returns to comply with the
religion’s ban on interest, according to Cagamas Bhd. and CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd.  “This will lead to better deal flows,”  Badlisyah Abdul Ghani , chief executive officer of CIMB Islamic Bank Bhd., a
Kuala Lumpur-based unit of CIMB Group, the world’s top sukuk
arranger this year, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “A
retail offering would open up a new pool of capital.” CIMB
plans to resume talks with potential issuers of debt targeted at
individuals, he said.  Economic Strategy  About 4.9 billion ringgit of notes may be issued in
Malaysia before the end of the year, less than a quarter of
planned sales in the Persian Gulf, Bloomberg data showed.  Malaysia’s 10-year economic strategy plan will help spur
sales of sukuk, Prime Minister Najib Razak said at an Islamic
conference in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. “New issuance of sukuk
may be cheaper, or else met by a high take-up rate, which will
also increase its attractiveness,” Najib said.  Bursa Malaysia is working on developing the sukuk for
individual investors, Yusli said today at the same Islamic forum
that ends on Oct. 28.  “We’re hoping that sometime next year we can get this off
the ground,” he said. Individuals will be able to “access this
asset class and undertake their own selection of sukuk and
manage their portfolio independently should they wish to,” he
said separately in his e-mail last week.  Global sales of Islamic bonds fell 24 percent to $12
billion in 2010 as debt restructurings in the Persian Gulf and a
slowing economic recovery reduced demand for higher-yielding
assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales from the
Gulf are starting to pick up after Dubai World, the state-owned
holding company, reached an agreement with 99 percent of its
creditors in September to alter terms on $24.9 billion of debt.  Pakistan Sukuk  Pakistan’s government may sell about 40 billion rupees
($466 million) of three-year Islamic bonds in the domestic
market by the end of October, Irfan Siddiqui, chief executive
officer at Meezan Bank Ltd. in Karachi, said yesterday in Dubai.
The bank is working with the government to structure the sale of
the floating-rate notes, he said.  Malaysia is expected to issue one “mega-Islamic bank”
license by the end of the year, central bank Governor Zeti
Akhtar Aziz told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. She said it’s
hoped the newly established  International Islamic Liquidity
Management Corp.  will be operational by the first half of 2011.  The Islamic Financial Services Board, a standard-setting
body, said on Oct. 7 that the bills to be issued by the Kuala
Lumpur-based institute will help improve investment across
borders.  Reserve Currencies  The short-term debt “will be in international reserve
currencies, like the U.S. dollar, euro and possibly others,”
Zeti said. “The initial ones will be in these major currencies,
because it’s to facilitate the cross-border liquidity
management.”  Shariah-compliant debt returned 12 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while
bonds in developing markets gained 16 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The difference between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed nine
basis points yesterday to 362, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index .  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic dollar note
due in June 2015 rose two basis points to 2.51 percent today,
reversing an earlier decline, according to prices provided by
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather than Malaysia’s
widened four basis points to 386 and is up 15 basis points this
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Depth  The success of debt sales to the general public may be
limited given Malaysia has more than 16 million Muslims,
compared with 192 million in Indonesia,  Scott Lim , who oversees
the equivalent of $670 million including Shariah-compliant
assets at Kuala Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset Management Bhd.,
said in an Oct. 22 phone interview.  “They want to build the depth of the sukuk market,” said
Lim. “Malaysia has a big Muslim population but it doesn’t mean
it is big enough to absorb that kind of a quantity. In the long
term, we have to depend on institutional funds and foreign
money.”  The government will cut taxes on Shariah transactions next
year such as bai bithaman ajil and murabahah contracts to
promote “innovation in Islamic securities,” Najib said in his
Oct. 15 budget speech.  Transparent Pricing  Bai bithaman is a product with an agreed profit rate, while
murabahah is a transaction involving the sale and purchase of
goods in which payment is deferred.  “Allowing retail investors to participate will no doubt
create liquidity in the market as you have more buyers and
sellers and you’d get more transparent pricing,”  Rita Benoy Bushon , chief executive officer of the Minority Shareholder
Watchdog Group that represents individual investors in Malaysia,
said in an interview from Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 21. “The
denomination has to be really meaningful for people to want to
go in otherwise it really defeats the purpose.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  