-- Amazon.Com Wins Order Blocking North Carolina Data Request in Tax Dispute
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/amazon-com-wins-order-blocking-north-carolina-data-request-in-tax-dispute.html
North Carolina’s effort to get
customer data in a sales tax dispute with  Amazon.com Inc.  was
blocked by a federal judge who agreed with the online retailer
that the request violated the Constitution’s First Amendment.  U.S. District Judge  Marsha J. Pechman  in Seattle ruled
yesterday that the North Carolina Department of Revenue’s
request for customers’ names, addresses and other personal
information violates the law “only as long as the Department of
Revenue continues to have access to or possession of detailed
purchase records obtained from Amazon.”  The judge said her order doesn’t prohibit North Carolina
from issuing a new request for customer information provided it
destroys any detailed information that the department currently
possesses.  Web companies are under pressure to do a better job of
protecting personal data and at times oppose government efforts
to obtain information about people accused of wrongdoing.  Amazon , the world’s largest  online retailer , sued in April
to block the North Carolina request for customer data. The
company said at the time that it had already provided North
Carolina with information about what it has sold to state
residents and what they paid.  Mary Osako , a spokeswoman for Seattle-based Amazon,
declined to comment on the ruling.  North Carolina Special Deputy Attorney General Kay Linn
Miller Hobart, who represented the state in the lawsuit,
couldn’t be reached for comment after regular business hours
yesterday.  The case is Amazon.com v. Kenneth R. Lay, 10-00664, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 