-- AmEx Adds Ex-Sprint Executives to Bolster Mobile Unit
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-26T20:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/amex-hires-former-sprint-executives-messenger-lurie-to-boost-mobile-unit.html
American Express Co. , the biggest
U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases, hired former executives of
 Sprint Nextel Corp.  to bolster its online and mobile unit and is
rebranding Revolution Money, an Internet-based payments network.  David Messenger , former chief administrative and corporate
development officer at Sprint unit Virgin Mobile USA, is joining
New York-based AmEx to help shape the Enterprise Growth Group
led by  Dan Schulman , the company said today in a  memo  to
employees. Schulman, 52, also left Sprint this year.  AmEx hired  Peter Lurie , Virgin Mobile’s former general
counsel, as senior vice president of strategic partnerships and
business development, and Jason Alexander, a former  Nokia Oyj 
executive, as vice president of strategic program management,
according to the memo.  Messenger’s team “will be responsible for developing new
online and mobile payment capabilities and associated services
and applications that will enable us to tap into the mobile-
based digital revolution in a meaningful way,” Schulman said in
the memo.  Revolution Money, which AmEx bought in January for about
$305 million, has been renamed Serve Enterprise. It will be
transformed from a separate business unit into a companywide
platform to “support our future digital initiatives,” Schulman
said.  Jason Hogg , who founded Revolution Money in 2005, will be
president of Serve Enterprise and establish standards to open up
the company’s payments platform to third-party developers.  ‘Growth Opportunities’  Eric Feldstein , former chief executive officer of GMAC
Financial Services and more recently a partner at hedge fund
Eton Park Capital Management, will join AmEx in November as
executive vice president of fee-based services, AmEx said.  “The growth opportunities for payment forms outside of our
traditional charge and credit products -- such as prepaid,
payroll cards, remittances and virtual currencies -- are
expanding quickly,” Schulman said in the memo. “The market for
these payment forms is well in excess of $1 trillion and
generates disproportionately high growth rates. Capturing even a
small market share represents the potential to add billions of
dollars of revenue in the coming years.”  Schulman, a former CEO of  Priceline.com Inc. , joined
Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint last year after the carrier’s
acquisition of Virgin Mobile USA, where he had been CEO.
Sprint’s prepaid business has become its  fastest-growing , with
brands including Virgin, Boost Mobile, Common Cents Mobile and
Assurance Wireless.  American Express climbed 80 cents, or 2 percent, to $40.10
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , and
was the day’s second-best  performer  in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  