-- Lan Airlines Profit Doubles, Matching Estimates, as Latin Traffic Recovers
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-26T20:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/lan-airlines-profit-doubles-matching-estimates-as-latin-traffic-recovers.html
Lan Airlines SA , Latin America’s
largest carrier by market value, said third-quarter profit more
than doubled, in line with analysts’ estimates, as passenger and
cargo traffic recovered.  Net income rose to $106 million from $52.1 million a year
ago, according to data published on the website of Chile’s
securities regulator. The average estimate of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit of $107 million.  “A weaker dollar is helping Lan’s cargo operations as it
boosts imports to Latin America,”  Ramon Lagos , head of research
at Banco Penta, said by telephone from Santiago before the
results were released. “Lan has also been able to improve
margins by increasing its capacity usage numbers.”  Quarterly sales climbed to $1.12 billion from $884 million.
Lan reported Oct. 8 that cargo traffic increased 20.4 percent in
September from a year earlier due to a recovery in imports to
Latin American driven by Brazil. Passenger traffic rose 14.4
percent in the same month, driven by routes to Europe and the
U.S.  Lan’s  shares  rose 1.1 percent to a record 14,933 pesos in
Santiago trading today.  Lan Airlines is working on the takeover of Brazil’s Tam SA.
Lan’s controllers, which include the Cueto family, will have a
70.7 percent stake in the combined company to be called Latam
Airlines, and have requested approval to Brazil airlines
regulator Anac, according to a statement distributed Oct. 20.  Lan, which has 23% of Brazil’s cargo business, probably
will have a 47% Latin American market share after merging with
Tam, Bank of America Corp. analysts wrote in an Oct. 6 note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  