-- Manchester United Wants to Sign Liverpool Goalkeeper Pepe Reina: Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-10-26T10:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/manchester-united-wants-to-sign-liverpool-goalkeeper-pepe-reina-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. media, with clickable links to the Web.  Reina Swoop?  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  wants to sign
Liverpool goalkeeper  Jose Reina  in a 12 million-pound ($19
million) deal, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Ferguson is among a number of coaches who believe the
Spaniard may soon be available because of unrest at Liverpool,
taken over this month by new American owners under  John W. Henry , the newspaper added.  Henry faces a struggle to keep “stars” like Reina,
 Fernando Torres  and  Glen Johnson , the newspaper said, with the
team failing to spark under new manager  Roy Hodgson .  Current United keeper  Edwin van der Sar  turns 40 in three
days, and there have been reports he may retire at the end of
the season.  Rooney to Face City?  Wayne Rooney  believes he will be fit to return to action
against Manchester City at Eastlands on Nov. 10, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  The Manchester United striker is in Dubai recovering from
an ankle injury that was originally thought likely to keep him
out of the game. Now he’s confident he’ll be ready in time, the
Mail added.  City was linked with signing Rooney last week before he
signed a new five-year deal.  Evra Deal  United is set to follow Rooney’s pay deal with a new
contract for French defender  Patrice Evra ,  the Sun  reported.  His pay will be increased from 70,000 pounds to 100,000
pounds a week in a four-year agreement.  That will cost 20 million pounds, to add to Rooney’s 65
million-pound deal, the Sun added. The signings will make clear
to Abu Dhabi-backed Manchester City that United won’t be
“outmuscled” in pay deals, the paper said.  Martin of Arabia?  Former Aston Villa manager  Martin O’Neill  is in talks with
Saudi Arabian club Al Hilal about a tax-free 4.5 million-pound
two-year contract,  the Mirror  reported.  Sven-Goran Eriksson  was due to get the job before joining
Leicester instead, the newspaper said.  Nasri Contract  Arsenal’s  Samir Nasri  is likely to get a new five-year deal
after his impressive early-season form, according to  the Mirror .  The 23-year-old midfielder, whose contract was to end in
2012, has been “outstanding,” the paper said.  Red Revolution  Arsenal midfielder  Andrey Arshavin  says his teammates are
beginning to understand his instructions on the field, even when
he speaks in his native Russian,  the Sun  reported.  Arshavin said he and captain  Cesc Fabregas  communicated in
Russian in the 3-0 win at Manchester City at the weekend.  “It was automatic, I shouted to him in Russian and he
passed the ball,” Arshavin said. “He understood what I was
saying.”  That understanding helped the Gunners to a third win in
succession -- or “on the Trotsky,” as the Sun put it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 