-- Animals Face Extinction Threat as Conservation Efforts Slow, Report Says
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-10-26T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/animals-face-extinction-threat-as-conservation-efforts-slow-report-says.html
About one-fifth of animal species
are at risk of extinction, according to a study released today
as governments and conservation groups meet in Nagoya, Japan, to
counter the threat.  Fifty-two species of mammals, birds and amphibians move a
step closer to extinction each year, said the report, published
today in the journal  Science  and prepared by 174 scientists from
around the world. They analyzed data for more than 25,000
vertebrate species and found a quarter of the animals were
categorized as critically endangered, endangered or vulnerable.  The number of threatened species would be even higher if
not for the success of conservation efforts, the study found. In
1992, 193 nations agreed in the  Convention on Biological
Diversity  to achieve “a significant reduction” in the rate of
extinctions, a goal that hasn’t been met, according to the
authors.  “The public is so used to hearing that everything is
doomed, to the point that nobody believes we can do anything
about it,” said study leader Michael Hoffmann, a scientist at
the  International Union for the Conservation of Nature , based
near Geneva, Switzerland. “This is nonsense. Conservation can
and does work.”  While animals are threatened in all parts of the globe,
tropical nations have the highest number of threatened species,
especially in Southeast Asia, where agricultural expansion,
logging and hunting are boosting the threats to animals, the
report said.  Urgency of Action  The nations meeting at the  biodiversity convention  must
understand the urgency of action even given the global economic
crisis, Hoffmann said.  “It’s absolutely vital that governments tackle the
biodiversity crisis with the same urgency as they have the
financial crisis,” Hoffmann said.  He cited a study released Oct. 20 by a Bonn, Germany-based
group called the Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity, which
found that conserving forests avoids greenhouse gas emissions
that would have an economic cost of $3.7 trillion. Income from
global fisheries has been reduced by $50 billion a year because
of poor management of fisheries, according to the group, which
is supported by the United Nations and several European
governments.  “I think we have pretty huge economic arguments for why
investing in our natural assets is extremely important,”
Hoffmann said.  While U.S. President  Bill Clinton  signed the 1992
convention and the U.S. is participating in the Nagoya meeting,
the agreement was never ratified by the U.S. Senate. The
biodiversity convention began Oct. 18 and concludes Oct. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 