-- Schools May Lose Funding for Ignoring Bullying of Gay Students, U.S. Says
-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 2010-10-26T18:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/anti-gay-bullying-may-spark-u-s-financial-penalties-at-schools.html
Schools that fail to address the
bullying of gay students may lose U.S. funds for not enforcing
gender-discrimination laws, the federal Department of Education
said.  Federal officials for the first time encouraged schools to
address such behavior as harassment using civil-rights  statutes 
enacted from 1964 to 1990 that protect students from
discrimination based on race, religion, national origin,
disability or gender, the department  said  today.  The announcement clarifies that protections extend to gay,
lesbian, and transgender students who are harassed for “failing
to conform to sex stereotypes,” Russlynn Ali, the assistant
education secretary for civil rights, said during a conference
call yesterday. “We are not creating new policy,” she said.  Courts have held that gender stereotyping of gay people may
be a violation of civil-rights law, Ali said.  “We must get directly involved when bullying crosses a
line and becomes discriminatory harassment,” Education
Secretary  Arne Duncan  told reporters on a conference call today.  Kristen Amundson , communications director for the  Education
Sector  policy organization and former chairwoman of the school
board in Fairfax County, Virginia, said in a telephone interview
that “it’s certainly unprecedented as far as I can remember.”
Amundson, a former five-term Democrat in the Virginia
legislature, said “it does, to me, feel very different” from
prior interpretations of the law.  Rutgers Death  Suicides of students such Tyler Clementi, who was a
freshman at  Rutgers University  in New Brunswick, New Jersey,
have sparked campaigns against bullying.  Clementi plunged from the George Washington Bridge into the
Hudson River on Sept. 22, three days after live video of a
sexual encounter between him and another man was transmitted on
the Internet, according to Middlesex County, New Jersey,
prosecutor Bruce Kaplan. Two persons were charged with invasion
of privacy in the incident.  Such occurrences “contribute to our sense of urgency,”
said Ali, adding the Education Department isn’t investigating
the Clementi case or others like it.  Elementary schools, secondary schools and colleges must
establish antidiscrimination plans after an incident occurs or
face loss of federal aid in “extreme cases,” Ali said on a
conference call today. Federal officials will take steps such as
cutting off funding or bringing in the Department of Justice
when schools don’t cooperate, she said.  The department is prepared to step in, Duncan said. “Are
we putting people on notice? The answer is yes.”  First Bullying Guidance  The  letter  said schools “must take prompt and effective
steps reasonably calculated to end the harassment, eliminate any
hostile environment and its effects, and prevent the harassment
from recurring.” More than 15,000 schools and school districts
and more than 5,000 colleges and universities received the
letter early today, Ali said.  Federal education officials based their interpretation on
legal precedent and on guidance offered by the administration of
 George W. Bush  addressing harassment because of religion and
gender, Ali said yesterday.  “What’s new here is that we are putting it all in one
place,” she said. “This is the first time the department is
issuing guidance on bullying.”  The White House will convene a conference on bullying and
harassment in schools early next year, the Department of
Education said. The Department of Education will hold a series
of workshops for school administrators around the U.S. on
antibullying measures.  Changing Attitudes  The federal government can play an important role setting
precedent, Amundson said, citing the success of U.S. programs in
promoting girls’ and women’s sports and other extracurricular
activities.  “It’s always easier to change behaviors than it is to
change attitudes, and that’s what the federal government does
and that’s what it’s trying to do in this case,” she said
before the announcement  The government is responding to “what we sensed was a
growing problem within schools,” Ali said. The civil-rights
office received more than 800 harassment complaints during the
fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, she said.  The Obama administration has taken other steps to highlight
and address bullying, including staging an August  summit  on the
issue.  Obama Concern  In a  video address  released on Oct. 21, Obama said he “was
shocked and saddened” by suicides from bullying. He joined
Democratic New York Governor  David Paterson , talk-show host
 Ellen DeGeneres , and  employees  of Mountain View, California-
based  Google Inc.  in submitting videos to the  It Gets Better
Project , a public campaign targeting gay, lesbian, bisexual and
transgender youths.  The initiative, organized by  Dan Savage , a syndicated
columnist and the editorial director of a Seattle newspaper
named the Stranger, features testimonials of adults urging young
people not to commit suicide over bullying. The page on Google’s
YouTube.com has been viewed more than 1.8 million times.  Legislators in New Jersey have proposed strengthening the
state’s eight-year-old antibullying law, the Associated Press
 reported  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Young  in Washington at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  