-- Apollo, CVC Capital Agree to Purchase of Brit Insurance for $1.4 Billion
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-10-26T11:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/apollo-cvc-capital-agree-to-purchase-of-brit-insurance-for-1-4-billion.html
Apollo Global Management  and CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. agreed to buy  Brit Insurance Holdings NV 
for as much as 888 million pounds ($1.4 billion), ending four
months of takeover negotiations.  The private equity firms’ 1,045 pence-a-share offer, which
follows four previous approaches, was accepted by the Lloyd’s of
London insurer’s board, led by Chairman  John Barton , Amsterdam-
based Brit said today in a statement. Apollo and CVC will cover
Brit’s dividend by paying 30 pence a share on Dec. 7 and may
make a further payment of as much as 25 pence a share in cash.  “We’ve listened to our shareholders very closely
throughout the process, and it seems from what they told us that
they believe this a price they would feel comfortable in
accepting,” Brit Chief Executive Officer  Dane Douetil  said in
an interview. “There’s no doubt this is a low point in the
sector’s cycle and businesses are selling for a lot less than
their intrinsic worth.”  Lloyd’s insurers have become cheaper takeover targets after
earnings fell because of more competition caused by an abundance
of capital built up after two years of relatively few natural
catastrophes. Fellow Lloyd’s insurer Hardy Underwriting Bermuda
Ltd. last week rebuffed a 155 million-pound bid from larger
rival Beazley Plc, saying the offer undervalued the firm.  The bid for Brit is 47 percent to 51 percent more than the
insurer’s closing share price of 729 pence on June 10, the day
before Apollo’s first offer was announced. Brit rose 2.2 percent
to 1,043 pence as of 12:38 p.m. in London.  ‘Reasonable Terms’  “The terms are largely as expected,” said  Ben Cohen , a
London-based analyst at Collins Stewart Plc with a “hold”
rating on Brit. “They are reasonable terms. Given the somewhat
volatile track record of Brit it probably does make sense to
accept the offer.”  The bid values Brit at about book value, according to Joy
Ferneyhough, a London-based analyst at Execution Noble Ltd. with
a “hold” rating on the insurer. Beazley’s offer for Hardy was
worth about 1.1 times Hardy’s 2010 estimated book value as it
has a higher return on equity, she said on Oct. 18.  Apollo, founded in 1990 by former Drexel Burnham Lambert
Group mergers and acquisitions chief  Leon Black , first offered
10 pounds a share for Brit in June. Rival private equity group
CVC joined the Apollo bid last month. Brit extended its deadline
for the private equity firms to make an offer by 10 days on Oct.
15 after the companies still had unresolved regulatory and legal
issues.  Management Team  Apollo and CVC will buy Brit under a newly incorporated
company named Achilles Netherlands Holdings BV Brit was advised
by Lexicon Partners and JPMorgan Cazenove Ltd. Achilles was
advised by Bank of America Corp., Willis Capital Markets &
Advisory, Citigroup Inc. and West Hill Corporate Finance.  Douetil and his senior management team, including chief
financial officer in waiting Scott Egan, will continue running
the business under Apollo and CVC’s ownership, the CEO said.  “We have entered into a management agreement that means
that hopefully we’re here for the whole journey and we all exit
together at some date in the future,” he said. “It will be no
different from my current role.”  Douetil and his team will invest up to 1.5 million pounds
in the new ownership structure. They will be entitled to share
9.5 percent of the profits should they achieve a return on
equity of more than 12 percent. The insurer’s annualized return
on equity at June 30 was 16.9 percent.  Revenue Drops  Brit’s revenue for the nine months to Sept. 30 fell 8.5
percent to 1.2 billion pounds, the insurer said today in a
separate statement. Premiums from reinsurance dropped 13 percent
to 295.1 million pounds as prices fell, Brit said.  “Cost control has been an important priority as we shrink
the top line in response to a weakening market,” Douetil said
in the statement.  Investment returns for the nine-month period were 101.8
million pounds, a 2.9 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  