-- Apple iPhone, Laptop Assembly Workers in China Ill From Fumes, ABC Reports
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-10-26T09:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/apple-iphone-assembly-workers-in-china-ill-from-fumes-abc-says.html
Chinese workers assembling  Apple
Inc.  laptops and iPhones have become ill from breathing
chemicals, Australian Broadcasting Corporation reported today,
citing unidentified patients.  The employees, some of whom have been hospitalized for more
than six months, are being treated at the Number Five People’s
Hospital in Suzhou city in eastern China after they breathed in
fumes from the chemical n-hexane while gluing and polishing
logos on Apple products, the  report  said. The fumes led them to
be dizzy, numb and unable to walk, according to the report.  “We take such reports seriously and will look into it,”
 Jill Tan , a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Apple, said by phone
today. Apple requires all its suppliers to abide by a  Supplier
Code of Conduct , she said.  In May, Students and Scholars Against Corporate
Misbehavior, a Hong Kong labor rights group, called on consumers
to boycott Apple’s iPhone because the Cupertino, California-
based company isn’t doing enough to ensure workers’ safety.  The labor-rights group held protests after Chinese workers
at  iPhone assembler Foxconn Technology Group committed suicide
and  Wintek Corp ., a supplier of screens to Apple,  said  it was
providing medical care to employees who fell ill from chemical
exposure.  The ABC report didn’t identify which company the workers it
spoke to worked for, or what they supplied to Apple.  Calls to the general line of the Number Five People’s
Hospital of Suzhou weren’t immediately answered today. Jay
Huang, a spokesman for Taichung, Taiwan-based Wintek didn’t
answer calls to his mobile phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net .
AAPL US <Equity> CN
2384 TT <Equity> CN 