-- Aquarius Platinum First-Quarter Profit Rises Fourfold as Production Climbs
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2010-10-26T08:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/aquarius-platinum-first-quarter-profit-rises-fourfold-as-production-climbs.html
Aquarius Platinum Ltd. , the world’s
fourth-largest producer of the metal, said profit climbed more
than fourfold in the fiscal first quarter as output advanced.  Net income  rose to $42.4 million, or 9.2 cents a share, in
the three months through September, from $9.5 million, or 2.1
cents, a year earlier, the Johannesburg-based company said today
in a statement. Attributable production of platinum group metals
increased 28 percent to 123,392 ounces, including record
quarterly volumes at the Mimosa plant in Zimbabwe, it said.  The company is boosting output in southern Africa to take
advantage of gains in the price of platinum, which jumped 26
percent to an average $1,554.49 an ounce in London in the
quarter. Aquarius’s Kroondal and Marikana mines in the north of
South Africa tap the world’s richest reserves of the metal,
which is used in jewelry and pollution-control devices for cars.  On current spot prices, Aquarius is “on track” to deliver
27 cents a share in profit in fiscal 2011, Liberum Capital Ltd.
said today in a note to investors. That compares with the 26.1-
cent average  estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company had $364 million in cash at the end of
September, according to the statement.  Aquarius  fell as much as 0.7 percent to 373.2 pence in
London trading, and was at 373.7 pence as of 9:55 a.m. local
time, valuing the company at 1.73 billion pounds ($2.7 billion).  Blue Ridge  The company is rebuilding the Blue Ridge mine following
three fatal accidents since it bought the operation in July
2009. Blue Ridge has been “placed on care and maintenance
pending redevelopment plan implementation,” Aquarius said in
the statement. The work may take as long as seven months, the
company said in August.  South Africa produces more than three-quarters of global
platinum supply. Anglo Platinum Ltd. is the largest producer of
the metal, followed by Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. and Lonmin
Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 jordan11@bloomberg.net . 