-- ArcelorMittal Boosts Profit; Outlook Misses Estimates
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2010-10-26T16:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/arcelormittal-reports-third-quarter-ebitba-in-line-with-analyst-estimates.html
ArcelorMittal , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, fell the most in four months in Amsterdam trading
after saying earnings this quarter would drop as much as a third
from the prior three months as prices decline and costs rise.  ArcelorMittal slumped 5 percent, the steepest slide since
June 29. Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization will be $1.5 billion to $1.9
billion, Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal said today in a
statement, missing the $2.44 billion average  estimate  of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The steel recovery has been postponed yet again,” said
 Christian Georges , an analyst at Olivetree Securities Ltd.
“Prices are still weakening, volume is poor and ArcelorMittal
suggests production levels are at best unchanged.”  Steelmakers faced a surge in raw-material costs in the
third quarter even as steel prices declined and demand weakened
as countries ended economic incentives to buy new cars and
Chinese consumption slowed. Prices for iron ore, a steelmaking
ingredient, almost doubled in the April quarter and gained more
than 20 percent in the June-to-September period.  ArcelorMittal  fell  1.24 euros to 23.78 euros by the close
of Amsterdam trading after earlier tumbling to 23.54 euros.  “The business performed towards the lower end of our
expectations against a background of seasonally lower volumes,
weakening spot prices and higher costs,” Chief Executive
Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  said in the statement. “Our outlook for
the fourth quarter remains cautious as the expected higher input
prices continue to work through the business and demand remains
muted.”  Price Push Fails  Ebitda was $2.27 billion in the third quarter, matching the
average estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Net
income  rose to $1.35 billion from $910 million a year earlier,
when the company was still suffering from the effects of a
global recession.  Hot-rolled steel coil, a benchmark product used in cars and
buildings, declined 8.2 percent in the third quarter to 560
euros ($782) a metric ton, the first decline this year,
according to data compiled by Metal Bulletin.  ArcelorMittal said attempts to raise steel prices failed.
The company said Sept. 8 that it planned to increase European
steel prices 5 percent from October to pass on higher costs.  “We made some attempts to pass on price rises but those
price rises did not stick,”  Aditya Mittal , chief financial
officer, said on a conference call today.  ArcelorMittal used 71 percent of its capacity in the third
quarter, down from 78 percent in the prior three months and said
it expects to use the same amount in the fourth quarter.  Structural Challenges  “The lack of confidence in the short term and no long term
comments may be a concern for those looking for signs of a
global recovery but it is also evidence of the structural
challenges facing steel producers who are being squeezed by
rising raw materials costs and a lack of visibility on the
demand for steel output in developed regions,” Collins Stewart
Plc wrote in a note to investors today.  Nucor Corp. , the largest U.S. steelmaker, last week posted
third-quarter profit that trailed analyst estimates on lower-
than-expected prices. Posco, the world’s third-biggest producer,
reduced its full-year profit forecast by 7 percent on Oct. 13.  Steelmakers faced volatile prices this year as they bought
ore and coal for immediate delivery or in quarterly agreements
after the collapse of a four-decade-old annual pricing system.  ArcelorMittal reduced output by as much as half last year,
fired workers and sold bonds and shares to refinance  debt . It
raised $11.4 billion in the second quarter to accelerate debt-
reduction plans and in July renegotiated banking covenants on
about $32 billion of credit facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  