-- ArcelorMittal South Africa in Talks About Securing New Sources of Iron Ore
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-26T15:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/arcelormittal-south-africa-says-fourth-quarter-earnings-to-fall.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. , a
unit of the world’s largest steelmaker, has identified potential
sources of iron ore and is in talks with the owners of the
assets about securing supplies of the steelmaking ingredient.  The steelmaker has located “a number” of exploration
assets that could boost supplies and reduce its reliance on
 Kumba Iron Ore Ltd.’s  Sishen mine, which provides about two-
thirds of its ore needs, the steelmaker’s Chief Executive
Officer  Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita  said on a call today.  The ArcelorMittal unit, which supplies about 70 percent of
South Africa’s steel needs, is trying to locate new sources of
iron ore after Kumba ended a 2001 pricing accord under which the
steelmaker bought the raw material at 3 percent above production
costs. An interim accord agreed while the dispute is in
arbitration ends on July 31 next year, Nyembezi-Heita said.  ArcelorMittal South Africa is “fairly confident” about
succeeding in arbitration over rights at Sishen, South Africa’s
largest iron ore deposit, she said. No date has yet been set for
the hearing, the company said in a statement.  Steelmakers faced a surge in raw-material costs during the
third quarter even as steel prices declined and demand weakened
as countries ended economic incentives to buy new cars and
Chinese consumption slowed. Prices for iron ore almost doubled
in the April quarter and gained more than 20 percent in the
June-to-September period.  Earnings to Decline  Earlier, ArcelorMittal South Africa said net income for the
three months to Sept. 30 advanced to 64 million rand ($9.2
million) from a loss of 72 million rand a year earlier, while
revenue increased to 7.23 billion rand from 6.9 billion rand.  Fourth-quarter earnings are expected to fall because of
lower international steel prices and a seasonal slowdown in
domestic sales, the company said. Prices and demand are only
expected to improve next year, Nyembezi-Heita said.  ArcelorMittal South Africa, located at Vanderbijlpark in
the Gauteng province, is “listening” to shareholder concerns
about its planned sale of a 9.1 billion rand stake to a group of
black investors, which include Duduzane Zuma, a son of the South
African president, Nyembezi-Heita said.  South Africa’s Public Investment Corp., the steelmaker’s
biggest minority shareholder, said it will oppose the deal
because its investment team “questions the ethics” of such an
accord, the pension fund manager said on Oct. 4. Four other
minority shareholders, including Sanlam Ltd., have said they
will also oppose the transaction.  Shares in ArcelorMittal South Africa fell the most since
Aug. 25, dropping 2.8 percent to 81 rand by the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg, extending the decline over the last 12 months to
28 percent.  ArcelorMittal owns about  47 percent  of the South African
business, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  