-- ARM Third-Quarter Profit, Sales Rise on Smartphones, Tablets
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-10-26T07:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/arm-says-third-quarter-revenue-climbs-to-100-million-pounds.html
ARM Holdings Plc , the U.K. designer
of semiconductors that power Apple Inc.’s iPhone, reported
higher third-quarter profit and sales on increasing shipments of
chips used in smartphones and tablet computers.  Third-quarter earnings per share increased to 1.1 pence per
share from 0.5 pence, the Cambridge, England-based company said
today. Sales rose 34 percent to 100.4 million pounds ($159.5
million). Analysts had  estimated  sales of 96.3 million pounds.  ARM is seeking to broaden its range of product designs with
technology companies to take on  Intel Corp.,  the world’s biggest
computer chipmaker. The company said today that new tablets from
Dell Inc., Research in Motion Ltd. and Samsung Electronics Co.
all contained designs it produced.  The stock dropped as much as 6.2 percent in London trading
as analysts said the company’s share price, which has more than
doubled this year, may face a correction.  “We believe the rating is now well ahead of itself and
vulnerable to a correction,”  Paul Morland , an analyst at
KPC Peel Hunt, said in a note to clients. “Although sales have
impressed and the backlog looks strong, we do not believe this
is sufficient to justify a multiple of 44 times.”  The shares declined as much as 24.1 pence to 365.1 pence
and were down 3 percent at 377.5 pence as of 8:37 a.m.  Royalty Revenue  ARM said today it received third-quarter royalty revenue
from the sale of 1.5 billion processor chips with its designs. A
“major semiconductor company” has also bought an architecture
license to develop its own designs, the company said.  “Our partners are also starting to develop chips in new
markets for ARM, such as servers and laptops, creating longer-
term opportunities,” Chief Executive Officer  Warren East  said
in the statement.  ARM’s stock climbed this year on rising earnings and sales
and on speculation the company may be a takeover target. Oracle
Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  said in September
his company may buy a chipmaker. Oracle would more likely target
an enterprise-focused chipmaker such as Advanced Micro Devices
Inc.,  Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd.,
said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 