-- Martha Stewart Sales, Marketing Chiefs Said to Exit
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-10-26T20:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/martha-stewart-executives-said-to-leave-amid-reorganization-under-preston.html
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. 
replaced its heads of marketing, broadcast sales and digital-
advertising sales with newly appointed executive vice president
 Sally Preston  amid a reorganization.  Preston, previously group publisher, will oversee media
sales and marketing, the New York-based company said today in an
e-mailed statement. Janet Balis, executive vice president of
media sales and marketing, and the executives in charge of
broadcast and digital-ad sales are departing, according to a
person familiar with the moves, who declined to be named because
personnel decisions are private.  Martha Stewart Living, owner of the namesake magazine and
TV cooking show, is trying to revive sales growth after two
straight years of  falling revenue . The shifting of its TV shows
to the Hallmark Channel this fall has been “disappointing with
very weak ratings,” according to an Oct. 13 note from Noble
Financial analyst  Michael Kupinski , who rates the stock “buy.”  The company plans to report third-quarter earnings tomorrow
before U.S. markets open. Revenue fell 3 percent in the second
quarter, and the company has reported net losses for seven of
the previous eight quarters.  Orlando Reece, senior vice president of broadcast sales,
and  Christine Cook , senior vice president for digital ad sales,
are leaving, the person said. At least eight other marketing 
and sales executives were also let go today, the person said.  Preston, who will report to Chairman  Charles Koppelman ,
will oversee the new structure as the company attempts to
streamline advertising sales across print, digital, television
and radio. She joined the company in April 2005 as senior vice
president and publisher of Martha Stewart Living magazine.  “We believe that unifying our sales force will make our
team more effective and efficient and, in turn, drive stronger
results,” Koppelman said in the statement.  Martha Stewart Living was unchanged at $4.68 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 5.3 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent gain
for the  Russell 2000 Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 