-- Arts Council England to Cut Staff in Spending Overhaul
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-26T15:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/arts-council-england-trims-most-recipients-funding-by-15-as-subsidy-cut.html
Arts Council England , which funnels
state subsidies to performing-arts groups and some museums, said
it will cut most recipients’ grants 15 percent by 2015, shrink
its own staff, and phase out aid to the Arts & Business
nonprofit company to meet government belt-tightening
requirements.  The council’s regular recipients -- which include the  Royal
Opera House , the  National Theatre ,  Sadler’s Wells  Theatre and
the  Serpentine Gallery  -- will get grants trimmed 6.9 percent in
2011-12. They must reapply for funding after that to get a share
of the smaller pie, a statement said.  The Arts Council said its own operating costs, of which
staff account for 56 percent, will be halved to 12 million
pounds ($19 million) in real terms by 2015. Arts & Business will
get its grant halved in 2011-12, then cut off completely.  “It will be quite a different Arts Council: fewer people
doing things in a different way,” Arts Council England Chief
Executive Alan Davey said in a telephone interview. “We’ll be
doing things more in partnership with others, contracting.”  “Most of our money is spent on staff,” said Davey, 49.
“Staff will be affected, but it’s too early to say how many.”
The council is already reducing head count by a fifth this year
to 491. Most staffers, according to Davey, are “relationship
managers” who work with arts organizations in the field and
troubleshoot for them.  Osborne Announcement  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced a
package of national spending cuts on Oct. 20, including a
lowering of the  Department for Culture  budget to 1.1 billion
pounds by 2015. Grants to national museums will drop 15 percent,
and those to Arts Council England, 29 percent. The government
demanded that the Arts Council halve its administrative costs
and avoid cutting regularly-funded recipients’ grants by more
than 15 percent.  In the U.K., the government allocates cash to the Arts
Council, and leaves it up to the council to share out the money
among cultural groups.  Arts & Business -- the 34-year-old nonprofit group that
helps cultural organizations get funding from companies, trusts
and foundations, and wealthy individuals -- will see its 3.8
million pound grant halved to 1.9 million pounds in 2011-12,
then axed.  A&B had staff costs of 3 million pounds and overhead costs
of 900,000 pounds, Davey said. “We’re giving them 4 million
pounds, mostly from the public sector: We think we can probably
use that money more effectively,” he said.  Arts Expertise  “That’s not to say we won’t be doing business with A&B in
the future,” he said. “They do have expertise which I truly
acknowledge.”  Davey, who is working on a philanthropy review for Culture
Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , said the Arts Council itself should do
more to drum up private giving, “instead of hiving it all off
to a big organization and saying it’s not our business.”  Arts & Business -- which gets 55 percent of its funds from
the Arts Council -- said it was surprised by the news.  “It’s not what you would normally do if you want to
encourage the private sector to do more,”  Colin Tweedy , chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview. “If we
vanish, nobody will be there to encourage the business community
and philanthropists, other than the arts community itself.”  Tweedy, 57, said next year’s 50 percent cut would mean “a
savage reduction in activities and staffing structure,” though
details were to be worked out by the board. After that, “we
have to decide whether the organization has any viability.”  School Partnerships  In a separate measure, the Arts Council halved its grant to
Creativity, Culture and Education -- which runs “creative
partnerships” between artists and schools, and was “demerged”
from the Arts Council itself in 2008 -- to 19.1 million pounds
in 2011-12 from 38.1 million pounds in 2010-11.  The Arts Council news came as Sadler’s Wells, which gets
2.46 million pounds this year in subsidy from the council, held
its annual news conference.  Next year’s 6.9 percent cut will mean no more off-site
projects and postponement of work on the theater’s foyer,
Alistair Spalding, Sadler’s Wells chief executive and artistic
director, said.  While his own institution was not threatened, he said,
“the next two years are going to be very difficult for some
organizations.”  “Some will technically disappear,” Spalding said, “not
only because they can’t survive, but because the Arts Council
will have to decide who they do and don’t fund.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 Mbeech@bloomberg.net . 