-- Stocks Decline on UBS, Texas Instruments Results; Pound Gains
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-26T14:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/asian-stocks-drop-as-japan-s-exporters-slump-zinc-reaches-nine-month-high.html
Stocks  declined after UBS AG, Texas
Instruments Inc. and ArcelorMittal reported results that
disappointed investors. The pound gained as Britain’s economy
grew twice as fast as forecast, while Greek bonds plunged.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent at 10:47
a.m. in New York, paring losses after the Conference Board
showed consumer confidence rose from a seven-month low in
October.  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped 0.4 percent as UBS
tumbled 5.2 percent. The pound gained against all 16 of its
major peers. The extra yield investors demand to hold Greek 10-
year bonds instead of German bunds  climbed  above 7 percentage
points for the first time since Oct. 12.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, reported a  loss  at its
investment bank, deepening concern growth in the industry may be
the slowest since the Great Depression. Texas Instruments, the
second-largest U.S. chipmaker, said fourth-quarter sales will be
less than some analysts estimated, while ArcelorMittal, the
world’s biggest steelmaker, forecast earnings will drop.  “We’ve had several fairly important companies report
lackluster results and that’s putting some downward pressure on
the market today,” said  James W. Gaul , a money manager at Boston
Advisors LLC in Boston, which manages about $1.7 billion. “We’re
taking a much needed pause after a healthy run-up over the past
two months.”  ArcelorMittal, Oriflame  Banks and basic-resource companies led declines in Europe’s
 Stoxx 600 . ArcelorMittal sank 5.4 percent after saying earnings
would drop as much as a third as prices decline and costs rise.
Oriflame Cosmetics SA slumped 12 percent after cutting its
forecasts. Cairn Energy Plc dropped 8.2 percent after writing
off the costs of exploration wells in Greenland. Software AG
paced rising shares, gaining 6.8 percent after the company
boosted its outlook for the full year.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.9 percent, snapping two
days of gains. ASX Ltd., the owner of Australia’s stock exchange,
tumbled 7.4 percent as some of the nation’s lawmakers said
they’ll try to derail its A$8.09 billion ($8 billion) takeover
by Singapore Exchange Ltd.  The  S&P 500  retreated from its highest close since May 3
yesterday. Texas Instruments forecast revenue between $3.36
billion and $3.64 billion and cited a slowdown in consumer-
electronics spending. The midpoint of that range fell short of
the $3.52 billion average estimate of analysts, according to
Bloomberg data.  DuPont, the third-biggest U.S. chemical maker, had third-
quarter profit of 40 cents a share, compared with a 34-cent
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Ford, Bristol-Myers  Ford Motor Co., the second-largest U.S. automaker, reported
profit, excluding some items, of 48 cents a share, topping the
38-cent average of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. had adjusted profit of 59 cents a
share. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a profit of 53 cents a share. Of the 145 companies in
the S&P 500 that have reported results since Oct. 7, 125, or 86
percent, have beaten analysts’  estimates  for per-share profit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks pared losses after the Conference Board’s confidence
index increased to 50.2 from a revised 48.6 in September,
figures from the New York-based research group showed today. The
proportion of people who said jobs were plentiful fell to the
lowest level this year and income expectations were the weakest
since April 2009.  U.S. equity futures extended losses earlier after a report
showing home prices in 20 U.S. cities rose at a slower pace than
forecast in August. The S&P/Case-Shiller index increased 1.7
percent from August 2009, the smallest year-over-year gain since
February. The median forecast was for a 2.1 percent jump,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Pound Rallies  The pound appreciated 1.4 percent to 87.56 pence per euro
and climbed 0.7 percent to $1.5835. Britain’s Office of National
Statistics said the  economy  grew 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, compared with 0.4 percent predicted in a Bloomberg
survey.  The krona weakened against all 16 of its most traded
counterparts, reversing earlier gains, after the Riksbank,
Sweden’s central bank, said the prospect of a sluggish global
recovery suggested further tightening plans should be scaled
back. Policy makers also raised the seven-day repo rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 1 percent, a decision predicted
by all 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The dollar rose 0.6 percent to 81.32 yen after earlier
falling to near a 15-year low.  Greek Bond Risk  The yield on the Greek 10-year bond jumped 31 basis points
to 9.67 percent, and the spread over benchmark German bunds
advanced to 716 basis points. The cost of insuring Greek
government debt rose, with credit-default swaps on the nation
climbing 7.5 basis points to 668.5, according to data provider
CMA.  Greece is likely to default within three years as budget
cuts won’t repair the nation’s debts, Pacific Investment
Management Co. Chief Executive Officer  Mohamed A. El-Erian  said
yesterday.  A default is likely “as long as you can contain the
contagion to other countries and it is done through orderly
restructuring and repricing to retain competitiveness,” El-
Erian said at a conference sponsored by the Economist magazine
in New York yesterday. “The alternative doesn’t promise growth
and employment generation.”  The yield on the German bund advanced six basis points to
2.51 percent.  Treasuries  Treasuries fell, with the yield on the 10-year note rising
four basis points to 2.61 percent before the U.S. sells $35
billion of two-year notes. Inflation bets rose to near a five-
month high as traders predicted the Federal Reserve will boost
bond purchases to spur the economy. The  difference  between rates
on 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices, was at 2.18
percentage points, the most since May 18.  A sale of TIPS yesterday had a negative yield for the first
time at a U.S. debt auction, with the $10 billion sale of five-
year securities drawing a yield of negative 0.55 percent.  Crude oil rose 0.1 percent $82.59 a barrel, erasing a drop
of as much as 0.9 percent before a U.S. inventory report
tomorrow that may signal slowing demand. Copper rose 0.3 percent,
reversing earlier declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  