-- Asian Currencies Retreat, Led by Korean Won, as China May Resist Yuan Gain
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-10-26T09:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/asian-currencies-retreat-led-by-korean-won-as-china-may-resist-yuan-gain.html
Asian currencies weakened for the
first time in three days, led by Thailand’s baht, on speculation
regional policy makers will counter appreciation as China slows
yuan gains.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index slipped 0.l
percent from a one-week high after data yesterday showed sales
of U.S. existing homes jumped a record 10 percent in September,
weakening the case for the Federal Reserve to print more money
to spur economic growth. China should resist pressure from the
U.S. and Europe to let its currency appreciate, Wang Yong, a
central bank researcher wrote in a commentary in Shanghai
Securities News today.  The report from China “has driven down expectations for
yuan appreciation,” said  Wai Ho Leong , a Singapore-based senior
regional economist at Barclays Plc. “The U.S. existing home
sales were a surprise and that supported the dollar. We’re still
in a bullish Asian world since growth prospects and balance of
payments flows are so supportive of Asian currencies.”  The baht fell 0.2 percent to 29.90 per dollar as of 3:42
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Indian rupee weakened 0.2 percent to 44.44 and the Singapore
dollar declined 0.2 percent to S$1.2944.  The report from China comes after the Group of 20 nations
vowed on Oct. 23 to let markets determine foreign-exchange rates,
seeking to deter countries from weakening their currencies to
support exports.  Hot Money Attraction  China should also avoid raising interest rates again this
year because doing so would attract speculative “hot money”
into the currency, Wang, a professor at the People’s Bank of
China’s training school wrote. The yuan fell 0.06 percent to
6.6620 in Shanghai, trimming this month’s advance to 0.4 percent.
September’s 1.74 percent gain was the biggest advance since a
peg ended in July 2005.  The baht dropped on concern the government will unveil more
measures to slow fund inflows after the currency strengthened to
a 13-year high this month.  Policy makers are “keeping an eye” on speculative capital
inflows as increasing foreign purchases of local bonds lead to
gains in the baht, Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij said in an
interview yesterday. The baht has appreciated 11.4 percent
against the dollar this year, the best performance in Asia
outside Japan, as exchange data show overseas investors bought
$1.9 billion more Thai equities than they sold.  Additional Measures  “It’s possible to see additional measures to slow inflows
such as imposing a minimum-holding period,” said  Minori Uchida ,
a senior analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
“Such concerns may discourage people from aggressively buying
the baht for now.”  The Bank of Thailand is studying further measures aimed at
reducing the baht’s volatility and is monitoring the foreign-
exchange rate, Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said last week.
The government this month removed a 15 percent tax exemption for
foreigners on income from domestic bonds.  India’s rupee fell on speculation the nation’s importers
will step up foreign-exchange purchases to settle month-end
bills, said  Sudarshan Bhatt , Mumbai-based chief foreign-exchange
trader at state-owned Corporation Bank.  South Korea’s won fell 0.1 percent to 1,116.76 per dollar,
paring an earlier 0.4 percent decline after the Asia Development
Bank said the currency remains undervalued compared with its
level before the global financial crisis. Data due tomorrow is
forecast to show economic growth in South Korea slowed in the
third quarter.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 0.1 percent to 8,913
against the greenback and Taiwan’s dollar dropped 0.1 percent to
NT$30.76. Malaysia’s ringgit slipped 0.1 percent to 3.0975,
while the Philippine peso rose 0.4 percent to 43.125.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 