-- Asia, Middle East Institutions to Create `Mega' Islamic Bank
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2010-10-26T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/asia-middle-east-institutions-to-create-mega-islamic-bank.html
Malaysia, the world’s biggest market
for Islamic bonds, will issue a license before the end of this
year to a new Islamic bank that will be jointly established by
institutions from Asia and the Middle East, central bank
Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said.  The newly formed entity will have a capital of at least $1
billion, Zeti said in an interview late yesterday, without
naming the companies or organizations involved. A second so-
called “mega Islamic bank” permit may be issued by the central
bank next year, she said.  “Part of the reason for this is to have the final piece of
the jigsaw puzzle, to have a large player who can mobilize and
intermediate large volumes of funds for businesses around the
world,” Zeti said. “Right now, we have a large number of
Islamic financial institutions but they don’t have the scale.”  Muslim-majority Malaysia began pioneering Shariah-compliant
finance with its  first  Islamic bank three decades ago. It is
today responsible for more than 60 percent of the world’s $130
billion outstanding Islamic bonds, or sukuk, that comply with
the religion’s ban on interest, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The new bank will be able to facilitate larger
issuance of such notes, Zeti said.  The country has offered tax breaks and other incentives to
attract global financial institutions including Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc and Franklin Templeton Investments in a bid to
cement its role as the global Islamic financial hub of Asia.  Liquidity Management  Kuala Lumpur is already home to the Islamic Financial
Services Authority, a global standard-setting body for an
industry with $1 trillion in assets. The ISFB this week formally
established an International Islamic Liquidity Management Corp.
which will also be based in the Malaysian capital and issue
short-term instruments to help Shariah-compliant banks better
manage funds.  In June, Malaysia’s central bank issued licenses to five
foreign banks, including  National Bank of Abu Dhabi  PJSC and
Indonesia’s  PT Bank Mandiri . It also issued permits for four
operators of takaful, or Islamic insurance, in September. The
licenses are part of a government plan announced last year to
attract foreign investment.  “The motivation for this is to enhance our inter-linkages
with other financial systems around the world and facilitate
trade and investment activity,” said Zeti, during an Islamic
finance conference in Kuala Lumpur.  “We have liberalized this market to allow for foreign
currency-denominated issuance,” she said. “This will
facilitate this market to grow further.”  Islamic banking assets in the Southeast Asian nation
reached 337.6 billion ringgit ($109 billion) in July, accounting
for 20 percent of the country’s total, the finance ministry said
in its annual economic report on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Haslinda Amin  in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry in Hong Kong at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 