-- Asian Stocks Retreat as Yen Strengthens; Astellas Pharma, ASX Shares Drop
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 2010-10-26T10:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/asian-stocks-decline-on-strong-yen-asx-retreats-on-singapore-exchange-bid.html
Asian stocks fell for the first time
in three days on concern the yen near a 15-year high against the
dollar will crimp export earnings of Japanese companies.  Fanuc Ltd. , a Japanese industrial-robot maker that gets
about 79 percent of sales abroad, slipped 1.2 percent.  Astellas
Pharma Inc. , a Japanese drug maker that gets about 45 percent of
sales outside Japan, dropped 1.1 percent after the Nikkei
English News reported the company’s operating profit may fall in
the current fiscal year ending March 2011. ASX Ltd., the
operator of Australia’s main stock exchange, tumbled 7.4 percent
after shares in  Singapore Exchange Ltd. , which launched an $8.3
billion cash and stock takeover bid for the company yesterday,
extended their decline amid analyst downgrades.  “Investors are reluctant to test new highs ahead of the
Federal Reserve policy meeting next week,” said  Geoff Howie ,
markets strategist at MF Global Singapore Ltd., part of the
world’s largest broker of exchange-traded futures and options.
“While there is a case for further quantitative easing, the
continuation of the stock rally will depend on whether the U.S.
dollar is sustained at these levels. The dollar weakness is
amplifying the strength of the yen.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.6 percent to 130.65 as
of 7:22 p.m. in Tokyo, snapping its two-day advance of 1.4
percent. The gauge dropped for the first week in two months last
week after China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy,
unexpectedly raised interest rates and said it grew at the
slowest pace in a year.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average and China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index  both dropped 0.3 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index declined 0.5 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index and
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slipped 0.1 percent.  Japanese Exporters Drop  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index advanced 0.2 percent yesterday in New York on
speculation the Federal Reserve will announce further bond
purchases next week and as sales of U.S. existing homes jumped a
record 10 percent in September.  Shares of Japanese exporters dropped as the yen appreciated
to 80.41 against the dollar yesterday after stock trading closed
in Tokyo, the highest level since April 1995. A stronger yen
reduces income at Japanese companies when overseas revenue is
converted into their home currency.  Fanuc declined 1.2 percent to 11,120 yen. Toyota Motor
Corp., a Japanese carmaker that gets more than 70 percent of its
sales abroad, dropped 0.9 percent to 2,866 yen. Komatsu Ltd.,
the world’s second-largest construction-equipment maker,
declined 2.3 percent to 1,916 yen.  ‘Stock Sell Off’  “The yen’s rising to the 79 level is in sight, so a sense
of caution is spurring a stocks sell-off,” said  Naoki Fujiwara ,
a fund manager in Tokyo who helps oversee $6 billion at Shinkin
Asset Management Co.  Astellas Pharma slipped 1.1 percent to 3,025 yen. Operating
profit at the Japanese drugmaker may drop 38 percent to 115
billion yen ($1.42 billion) in the fiscal year ending in March
2011, the Nikkei English News reported, without saying how it
obtained the information. Astellas said it was not the source of
the report.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has surged 20 percent from its
2010 low on May 25 on speculation growth in profits will weather
Europe’s debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb property-price
inflation and a faltering U.S. economy. Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at 14.3 times  estimated earnings , compared
with 14.1 times at the year’s low.  China Railway Construction Corp. , the builder of more than
half the nation’s railroads, slumped 14 percent to HK$9.63, the
biggest decline on the MSCI Asian gauge. The company predicted a
4.15 billion yuan ($623 million) loss from a Mecca rail project
due to delays.  Biggest Drags  BYD Co. , the Chinese carmaker backed by Warren Buffett,
plunged 10 percent to HK$51.05 after reporting third-quarter
profit dropped 99 percent 11.34 million yuan ($1.7 million) amid
faltering sales.  ASX sank 7.4 percent to A$38.67 as shares in Singapore
Exchange, which is offering cash and shares for the Australian
bourse operator, extended their slump, reducing the value of the
deal.  The Singapore bourse operator is offering A$22 cash and
3.473 new Singapore Exchange shares for each ASX share. The bid
was worth about A$46.18 per ASX share based on SGX’s closing
share price yesterday, according to Bloomberg  calculations .  Singapore Exchange  fell 2.6 percent to S$8.72 after
tumbling 6.2 percent yesterday. Credit Suisse Group AG lowered
its rating to “underperform” from “outperform,” while
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its recommendation to “neutral” from
“overweight.”  ‘Broadly in Line’  The rationale for Singapore Exchange’s bid for ASX is
“unconvincing,” Credit Suisse analysts  Anand Swaminathan  and
 Sanjay Jain  wrote in a note to clients. “ASX is not attractive
in terms of profitability and growth profile. It is also set to
face stiff margin pressure due to competition.”  In Sydney,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the country’s
largest bank by market value, decreased 1.5 percent to A$50.18.
Chief Executive Officer  Ralph Norris  said the lender’s
performance in the three months to September was “broadly in
line” with what it expected as the operating environment
remained challenging. He spoke to reporters after a shareholder
meeting in Sydney today.  Among stocks that rose, Chinese oil refiners increased
after the government raised gasoline and diesel prices.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., Asia’s biggest oil
refiner, climbed 3.1 percent to HK$7.65 in Hong Kong.  PetroChina
Co. , the nation’s second-biggest oil refiner, rose 0.9 percent
to HK$10.02.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 