-- Asian Leaders Head to Hanoi Amid Concern at China Yuan
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   P a t r i c k   H a r r i n g t o n   [ ]
-- 2010-10-27T01:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/asian-leaders-head-to-hanoi-as-pressure-builds-on-china-to-boost-yuan.html
Asian leaders head to Hanoi this
week for talks that may center on calls for China to accelerate
yuan gains to protect the region’s export-dependent economies.  Trade policies are set to dominate the agenda after Group
of 20 finance chiefs meeting in South Korea agreed Oct. 23 to
refrain from weakening currencies to boost exports. U.S. 
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  will attend the Oct. 28-30 meetings, along with leaders 
from Japan, South Korea, India, Australia, New Zealand, 
Russia and the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  “China would be more amenable to listen to Asean countries
than the U.S. and Japan, because it’s very sensitive about being
perceived as a big bully,” said  Chalongphob Sussangkarn , a
former Thai finance minister and a fellow at the Thailand
Development Research Institute. “If Asean currencies and the
Chinese currency appreciate in a similar manner, then there will
be much less concern.”  China has kept the yuan’s rise to about 2 percent since a
June pledge to introduce more flexibility, arguing anything
other than a gradual appreciation would cause social and
economic turmoil. This year, the yen has climbed about 14.8
percent against the dollar, the baht gained about 11.6 percent
and Malaysia’s ringgit is up 10.7 percent.  Won’s Gain  South Korea’s won gained 7.2 percent in the third-quarter,
slowing economic growth to 0.7 percent from a 1.4 percent
expansion in the previous three months, the central bank said
today in Seoul. Exports account for about half of South Korea’s
economy and grew at the slowest pace in 11 months in September.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has weakened the dollar by moving
toward buying more assets to address unemployment and weak
inflation. China’s restraint of the yuan and the falling dollar
prompted countries such as South Korea, Brazil and Thailand to
take steps to weaken their currencies to boost competitiveness.  “They’ll have to talk about cooperation, integration,
pending issues like currency value,” Asean Secretary-General
 Surin Pitsuwan  told reporters in Tokyo on Oct. 21 of this week’s
meetings in Vietnam. “One country cannot do it alone.”  The threat of a protectionist wave of capital controls that
might crimp trade has led world leaders to seek a global accord
at next month’s G-20 summit in Seoul.  ‘Competitive Devaluation’  Finance ministers and central bankers ended their talks in
South Korea vowing to combat “competitive devaluation.” They
called for reduced trade imbalances while stopping short of a
U.S. proposal for targets that aimed at making a yuan advance
more palatable to China. Leaders will take up the debate at the
G-20 summit on Nov. 11-12.  The yuan’s slow rise has also hurt Southeast Asia,
Chalongphob said. China is Asean’s largest trading partner, with
two-way commerce reaching $211.31 billion in the first 9 months
this year, up 43.7 percent from last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “For China to do something you need more countries to
exert pressure together,” said  Johanna Chua , Hong Kong-based
head of Asian economic research at Citigroup Inc. “Part of the
reason why they’re not exerting pressure is that everyone is
also intervening in the markets. It’s tough to get people to
agree.”  Any agreement on currencies in Asia has been complicated by
a diplomatic dispute between China and Japan following a ship
collision last month in disputed waters. The incident, triggered
when Japan arrested a Chinese fishing-boat captain, has
“seriously hurt relations,” China’s Assistant Foreign Minister
Hu Zhengyao said last week.  ‘Suitable Conditions’  A meeting between Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and
China’s Wen in Hanoi will require “suitable conditions and
mood,” Hu said.  Earlier this month, Kan called on China and South Korea to
“take responsible actions” in foreign exchange markets,
leading to complaints from both countries. Japan’s own currency
intervention to weaken the yen in September drew criticism from
policy makers in Europe and American politicians. South Korea is
discussing several measures including a bank tax or levy on
financial transactions.  Japan’s criticism of the yuan’s value is “unreasonable”
considering its trade surpluses with China, Yao Jian, a
spokesman for China’s Ministry of Commerce, said Oct. 15. A week
earlier, China central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan told an
audience in Washington D.C. that a “very fast” appreciation
probably wouldn’t bring balance to the world economy.  Asian nations other than Japan may tread carefully in their
criticism of China, said  Paul Donovan , deputy head of global
economics at UBS AG.  “Asia will criticize quietly rather than loudly,” he said.
“Because so much of Asian regional trade involves China as a
partner, there is a limit to how aggressive the criticism will
be.” 