-- Massey Reports Quarterly Loss on Lower Production, U.S. Enforcement Costs
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2010-10-26T21:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/massey-reports-quarterly-loss-on-lower-production-u-s-enforcement-costs.html
Massey Energy Co. , owner of the West
Virginia mine where 29 people died in April, reported a net loss
of $41.4 million, citing reduced production and higher costs
because of U.S. government enforcement action.  The company lost 41 cents a share, compared with a profit
of $16.5 million, or 19 cents, a year earlier, the Richmond,
Virginia-based company said in a statement. Analysts  forecast 
Massey to lose 21 cents, according to two estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 26 percent to $810 million.  Chief Executive Officer  Don Blankenship , 60, said in
September that the company would report a third-quarter
operating loss. He said greater attention from the U.S. Mine
Safety and Health Administration in the wake of the mine
explosion has hurt productivity.  “The increased scrutiny that Massey has had from MSHA
following the Upper Big Branch tragedy is a large contributing
factor in the weak results for the third quarter,” said  Pearce Hammond , an analyst at Simmons & Co. International Ltd.  Massey fell 72 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $40.45 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, which closed before the
results were released. That is down 26 percent since the fatal
blast on April 5. The shares dropped to $39.51 at 5:15 p.m. in
trading after the market closed.  Hammond said investors and analysts are more interested in
speculation that Massey will be acquired than the third-quarter
results. Today’s closing price is up 14 percent since Oct. 18,
when the Wall Street Journal reported that the company’s board
is considering a sale.  Two analysts with Stifel Nicolaus said yesterday that
Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. might pay $62 a share to buy
Massey to expand its metallurgical coal reserves. That form of
the fuel is used to produce steel.  Massey restarted its Revolution operation in West Virginia
last month after it had been idle since June for a longwall move
and as it negotiated a ventilation plan with MSHA, it said in
September. Revolution produces steelmaking grades of coal.  (Massey plans to hold a conference call tomorrow at 11 a.m.
New York time. To access,  http://www.masseyenergyco.com .)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at  