-- ASX, Fortescue, Leighton, Lynas, National Bank: Australian Equity Preview
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-26T21:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/asx-fortescue-leighton-lynas-national-bank-australian-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may rise or fall in Australia. This preview
includes news announced after markets closed. All prices are
from yesterday’s close unless otherwise stated.  The S&P/ASX 200 Index  futures contract  due in December
slipped 0.1 percent to 4,685 as of 6:57 a.m. in Sydney. The  Bank
of New York Australia ADR Index  lost 0.8 percent. The  S&P/ASX
200 Index  fell 0.5 percent to 4,687.80.  Aquarius Platinum Ltd.  (AQP AU): The world’s fourth-largest
producer of the precious metal said profit climbed more than
fourfold in the fiscal first quarter as output advanced. The
shares gained 2.2 percent to A$6.10.       Aristocrat Leisure Ltd.  (ALL AU): The world’s second-
largest maker of slot machines was raised to “outperform” from
“underperform” at Credit Suisse Group AG. The shares dropped 2
percent to A$3.48.  ASX Ltd.  (ASX AU): Australia’s main stock exchange might
lose listings and relevance if Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s bid for
the Australian stock exchange operator is blocked, the
Australian newspaper reported, citing former ASX Chairman
Maurice Newman.  Separately, Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. yesterday said
Singapore Exchange’s plan to combine with ASX isn’t favorable
for the Tokyo bourse, which owns almost 5 percent of its
Singapore rival. ASX shares slumped 7.4 percent to A$38.67
yesterday.       Beach Energy Ltd.  (BPT AU): The Australian oil and gas
producer was raised to “accumulate” from “hold” at E.L. & C.
Baillieu Stockbroking Ltd. Beach shares were unchanged at 65.5
Australian cents.       Clough Ltd.  (CLO AU): The Australian engineering company
was downgraded to “underperform” from “outperform” at Credit
Suisse Group AG. Its shares plunged 10 percent to 72.5
Australian cents.       Fortescue Metals Group Ltd.  (FMG AU): The iron-ore producer
sold $2.04 billion of five-year notes in the seventh-largest
U.S. high-yield corporate bond offering this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock gained 0.5 percent to
A$6.58.  Leighton Holdings Ltd.  (LEI AU): Leighton has won new
projects and contract renewals in Australia and Asia with a
combined total value of 607 million euros ($841 million),
Hochtief AG, the company’s Essen, Germany-based parent, said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. Shares of Leighton, Australia’s
biggest construction company, slipped 0.7 percent to A$37.85.  Lynas Corp Ltd.  (LYC AU): The rare earths developer was
downgraded to “neutral” from “overweight” at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. Its shares slumped 6 percent to A$1.56.  National Australia Bank Ltd.  (NAB AU): The nation’s biggest
business lender said today that business banking rebounded and
bad debts fell as it posted a return to second-half profit,
reporting net income of A$2.13 billion ($2.1 billion). Its
shares lost 1 percent to A$24.75.       Oil Search Ltd.  (OSH AU): Papua New Guinea’s largest oil
and gas producer was downgraded to “neutral” from
“outperform” at Credit Suisse Group AG. The stock fell 0.5
percent to A$6.49.       PanAust Ltd.  (PNA AU): The owner of the second-largest
copper mine in Laos was downgraded to “hold” from “buy” at
Deutsche Bank AG. The shares advanced 1.3 percent to 81
Australian cents.  Toll Holdings Ltd.  (TOL AU): Chief Executive Officer Paul
Little is expected to retire next year, the Australian newspaper
reported, without citing anyone. Toll shares declined 1 percent
to A$6.64.       WorleyParsons Ltd.  (WOR AU): The Australian engineering
group was downgraded to “hold” from “buy” at Deutsche Bank
AG. The stock dropped 3.6 percent to A$22.36.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 