-- Agrium, Atlantic Power, Rogers, TD, West Fraser: Canadian Equity Preview
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-26T12:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/atlantic-power-west-fraser-timber-may-move-canada-equity-market-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have  unusual  moves in  Canadian trading .  Agrium Inc.  (AGU CT): Canada’s second-largest fertilizer
producer received a “buy” rating in new coverage from Mark R.
Gulley, an analyst at Soleil Securities Corp.  Atlantic Power Corp.  (ATP CT): The owner of interests in
U.S. power plants said it will buy a 39.6-megawatt wood-fired
plant in Cadillac, Michigan, from ArcLight Energy Partners Fund
II L.P. and Olympus Power LLC in a deal Atlantic Power valued at
about $77 million.  Rogers Communications Inc.  (RCI/B CT): Canada’s largest
wireless carrier reported third-quarter profit of 83 cents a
share, excluding certain items, surpassing the average of 13
analyst estimates by 4.8 percent.  Toronto-Dominion Bank  (TD CT): The country’s second-biggest
bank may move after TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. said it earned
20 cents a share in the fourth quarter, excluding certain items,
missing the average analyst estimate by 14 percent. Toronto-
Dominion owns a 46 percent stake in TD Ameritrade, according to
Bloomberg data.  West Fraser Timber Co.  (WFT CT): The lumber producer with
operations in the U.S. and Canada said it earned C$1.04 a share
in the third quarter, excluding certain items, beating the
average analyst estimate of 39 cents a share.  Yellow Pages Income Fund  (YLO-U CT): The directory
publisher started a digital-media advertising and marketing
subsidiary, the company said in a statement. Yellow Pages will
spend as much as C$60 million ($59 million) on acquisitions to
be combined into the new unit.  To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  