-- Australia's Dollar Drops After Consumer Prices Increase Less Than Expected
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i
-- 2010-10-27T15:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/australian-dollar-rebounds-as-inflation-report-may-spur-rba-to-raise-rates.html
Australia’s dollar tumbled against
all its most-traded counterparts as slower-than-forecast
inflation reduced chances the central bank will increase
interest rates.  The Aussie fell to the lowest in a week as swaps trades
indicated a 16 percent chance the Reserve Bank of Australia will
boost borrowing costs next week from 47 percent odds yesterday,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index. New Zealand’s
dollar slipped after Finance Minister  Bill English  said the
nation’s economic  recovery  is “patchy.”  “Any rate increase in Australia will be only gradual, even
if the Reserve Bank of Australia were to resume the monetary
tightening cycle next week,” said  Akira Maekawa , a senior
economist at online currency trading company Global Futures &
Forex Ltd. in Tokyo. “Given such a benign rate outlook, the
Aussie will struggle in extending its gains far above parity.”  Australia’s currency fell 1.6 percent to 97 U.S. cents at
11:51 a.m. in New York from 98.54 cents yesterday. It fell as
low at 96.69, the weakest since Oct. 20, five days after it
briefly reached parity with the greenback. The currency slid 1.4
percent to 79.14 yen from 80.24.  New Zealand’s dollar bought 74.37 U.S. cents, down 0.7
percent from 74.92 cents. The kiwi was at 60.68 yen from 61 yen.  Consumer Prices  Australian consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, after increasing at a 3.1 percent
pace in the previous three months, the Bureau of Statistics said
in Sydney today. The  median estimate  of 24 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News was for a 2.9 percent increase.  The Reserve Bank of Australia’s core inflation measures,
which exclude the largest price increases and declines, were
also published today.  The reports may provide scope for central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  to extend a five-month pause in interest-rate
increases after policy makers said their Oct. 5 decision to hold
borrowing costs was “finely balanced.”  New Zealand’s dollar fell versus the greenback after
Finance Minister English said the nation’s consumers are opting
to save rather than spend, hindering retail sales and pushing
house prices lower.  “Maybe the market is going to be a little bit surprised on
the downside by RBA inaction,”  Gavin Stacey , a strategist at
Barclays Capital in Sydney, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today. “This does some damage to the parity story of
this year, but going to next year, stories still look very good
for Australia”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 