-- Australia's Dollar Trades Within One U.S. Cent of Parity on Rate Outlook
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i
-- 2010-10-26T05:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/australia-s-dollar-trades-within-one-u-s-cent-of-parity-on-rate-outlook.html
Australia’s dollar traded near
parity with the greenback on prospects the central bank will
raise policy rates to temper inflation, boosting the extra yield
offered by the nation’s bonds over similar-maturity U.S. debt.  Australia’s currency climbed to 99.24 U.S. cents today
before a government report tomorrow that economists said will
show consumer price inflation stayed near the upper-limit of the
central bank’s inflation target. New Zealand’s dollar held two
days of gains as an advance in U.S. stocks boosted demand for
higher-yielding assets.  “Expectations for the resumption of interest-rate hikes in
Australia are getting stronger, while there is strong belief
that the Fed will expand credit easing,” said  Toshiya Yamauchi ,
a senior currency analyst at Ueda Harlow Ltd. in Tokyo.
“Widening yield differentials continue to support the Aussie.”  Australia’s currency traded at 99.11 cents as of 4 p.m. in
Sydney from 99.05 cents in New York. Yesterday it climbed to
99.74, the strongest since it briefly reached parity on Oct. 15.
The currency was 80.11 yen from 80.05 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar bought 75.29 cents from 75.22, and was
at 60.87 yen from 60.78 yen.  Australia’s consumer prices rose 0.8 percent last quarter,
after gaining 0.6 percent in the prior three months, according
to a Bloomberg News  survey  of economists before the Bureau of
Statistics releases the data tomorrow. A government report
yesterday showed prices paid to the nation’s producers in the
third quarter rose by the most in almost two years.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board next meet to review interest rates on Nov. 2.  Rate Bets  The so-called Aussie also rose after the nation’s business
confidence index surged to plus 9 in September from 3 in the
previous poll, according to data released today by the National
Australia Bank.  “Gains in confidence, business conditions and capacity
utilization could also tip the RBA over the line,”  John Kyriakopoulos , head of currency strategy at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Sydney, wrote in a note to clients.  There is a 48 percent chance the RBA will increase its
target rate at the meeting, according to an  index  compiled by
Credit Suisse Group AG. The probability was 38 percent at the
end of last week.  Stevens kept borrowing costs unchanged for a fifth meeting
on Oct. 5, after boosting the benchmark lending rate by 1.5
percentage points from October 2009 to May this year, from a
half-century low of 3 percent. Stevens and his board aim to keep
inflation in an average range of 2 percent to 3 percent.  Dudley Comments  In contrast, Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
William Dudley repeated late yesterday his view that the central
bank will probably to enact need further stimulus to combat too-
low inflation and a jobless rate that’s stuck near 10 percent.  “The Fed cannot wave a magic wand and make the problems
remaining from the proceeding period of excess vanish
immediately,” Dudley said. “But we can provide essential
support for the needed adjustments.”  Benchmark rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and 3 percent
in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S. and
Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  Australian two-year notes offer 4.55 percentage points  more
yield  than similar-maturity U.S. debt, up from this year’s low
of 3.19 percentage points on Feb. 2.  TIPS Yields  Demand for the Australian dollar was tempered after the
U.S. Treasury yesterday sold $10 billion of five-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities at a negative yield for the first
time as investors bet the Federal Reserve will be successful in
sparking inflation.  “If people gain stronger confidence in prospects for the
U.S. economy and its asset markets following additional monetary
easing, they may start buying back the dollar,” said  Naoto Minatogawa , a currency analyst at Himawari Securities Inc. in
Tokyo. “Currencies such as the Aussie which have been bought
most actively against the dollar on expectations for additional
monetary easing in the U.S. may drop.”  Fed Treasury purchases will spur global inflation while
failing to bring down U.S. unemployment, said  Mohamed A. El- Erian , chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management
Co.  Quantitative easing, the strategy of buying bonds “on its
own means we’ll have the same issues in six to nine months time
with the rest of the world being inflated,” El-Erian said. “It
will have some benefits but not as much as we’d like. It will
have costs and unintended consequences.”  Australian bonds rose, with the 10-year note’s yield
falling two basis points to 5.17 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed
payment made to receive floating rates, fell one basis point to
3.77 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 