-- Australia to Have Wetter-Than-Normal Weather for Three Months on La Nina
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-26T04:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/australia-to-have-wetter-than-normal-weather-for-three-months-on-la-nina.html
Australia may have wetter-than-
normal weather over the next three months, according to the
Bureau of Meteorology, adding to concern that sugar output may
be cut while the quality of the wheat crop may be downgraded.  The chance of rainfall exceeding the historical average in
November to January is more than 60 percent for most of
Australia’s east, according to an outlook on the bureau’s
 website  today. The figure rises to 70 percent for much of
coastal Queensland and New South Wales and reaches at least 75
percent for part of the northern Murray-Darling Basin, it said.  The outlook is the result of warm conditions in the Indian
Ocean as well as cool temperatures in the equatorial Pacific
that are associated with a La Nina event, the bureau said. New
South Wales this month declared the state drought-free for the
first time in nine years after heavy rains.  “It is looking like a wet harvest toward the end of the
year,” Tracey Allen, a climate change and sustainability
analyst at Rabobank Groep NV in Sydney, said by phone. “The  La
Nina  looks to be remaining strong.”  Wheat for December in Chicago was little changed at $6.7425
a bushel at 1:56 p.m. in Melbourne, with the most-active
contract 24 percent higher this year after Russia banned grain
exports. Raw sugar for March delivery rose 1 percent to 28.5
cents a pound on ICE futures U.S. in New York yesterday.  ‘Similar Event’  “Early-harvest results from central Queensland indicate
that downgrades of wheat to feed-quality are significant and
concerns of a similar event occurring in southern Queensland are
now mounting,” Rabobank said in a report this month. The wheat
crop may be “just above” 22 million metric tons, it said.  For large parts of South Australia and southern and western
Victoria the odds of rainfall exceeding historical averages are
about 55 percent, according to the bureau.  In Western Australian grain areas, where dry weather has
cut wheat output, the chances of above-normal rainfall are more
than 65 percent, according to the outlook. Much of the state’s
west was normally dry at that time year, the bureau said.  Australia’s sugar harvest was about 67 percent completed,
compared with 80 percent normally, because of rain,  Steve Greenwood , chief executive officer of producers’ group
Canegrowers said yesterday. Production may not reach a forecast
4.2 million tons if above-normal rainfall continued, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  