-- Awal Bank of Bahrain Fails to Win Bid for Limited Use of U.S. Chapter 11
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-10-27T00:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/awal-bank-of-bahrain-loses-bid-for-limited-use-of-u-s-chapter-11-law.html
Awal Bank BSC, a bankrupt Bahrain-
based lender involved in overseas legal disputes between two
Saudi Arabian family conglomerates, failed to persuade a U.S.
bankruptcy judge to allow it to file a restricted form of
Chapter 11 bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Allan Gropper  in New York didn’t
grant a bank request today to have a Chapter 11 case that would
keep some information confidential and lack a creditors
committee. Gropper said that, unlike overseas jurisdictions,
U.S. courts don’t have an administrator and thus need a
creditors’ committee to serve as a watchdog.  “I don’t think I’m going to grant you very much today --
though I might let you apply for it with more notice,” Gropper
told  David Molton  of Brown Rudnick LLP, which represents Charles
Russel LLP. Charles Russel is a foreign administrator for Awal’s
Bahrain-based legal proceedings.  Awal sought U.S. bankruptcy protection Oct. 21, almost 13
months after it filed for Chapter 15 bankruptcy in the same
court. Chapter 15 bankruptcy seeks to protect companies from
U.S. litigation while they reorganize in a non-U.S. court.  Alisdair Haythornthwaite, a spokesman for Charles Russel,
said today in a phone interview that the administrator would
pursue its request.  “The bankruptcy court directed that the motion be further
considered at a later date after giving opportunity for
creditors to make representations regarding the relief requested
in the motion,” Haythornthwaite said in an e-mailed statement.  Awal said it sought Chapter 11 court protection to use laws
that would help it recover so-called “avoidable” transfers out
of the estate prior to bankruptcy, Molton told Gropper today.  Loan Defaults  Awal is owned by Saudi Arabian Saad Group, which is owned
by billionaire  Maan al-Sanea . It and another Saudi conglomerate,
Ahmad Hamad Al-Gosaibi & Brothers Co., defaulted on loans last
year, triggering court proceedings that included accusations al-
Sanea siphoned off $10 billion from a family he’d married into.  Awal has assets in the Middle East, the Caribbean and
Europe, and its plan of reorganization or liquidation is likely
to be filed in Bahrain, not the Chapter 11 U.S. case, according
to court papers.  Gropper rejected a request that Awal forgo the usual
committee of creditors, saying a request should be re-submitted
after Nov. 1, the deadline for the U.S. Trustee, which oversees
U.S. bankruptcies, to seek candidates for a committee.  Awal said a U.S. committee would duplicate meetings held in
the foreign proceedings among five of Awal’s largest creditors:
 Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank ;  Credit Agricole SA  subsidiary Calyon,
Commerzbank/Dresdner, Gulf International Bank BSC, and  HSBC  Bank
Plc.  Cayman Islands  The bank listed assets of $50 million to $100 million and
liabilities of more than $1 billion in its Chapter 11 filing.
Awal Bank was taken into administration by Bahrain’s central
bank in July 2009 after defaulting on loans. U.S. lawyers for
the bank said last year that under Bahrain law, Awal’s
administrator had two years to decide if the bank should
liquidate or be returned to management and shareholders.  Al-Gosaibi’s lawsuit against al-Sanea and Awal subsidiaries
in the Cayman Islands seek to recover about $9.2 billion. The
lawsuits were stayed after al-Sanea challenged the Cayman
court’s jurisdiction, and an appeal of that decision is set to
be heard in November, according to court documents filed in the
Chapter 11 case by Stewart Hey, a lawyer for Charles Russel.  In July, New York State Supreme Judge Hon.  Richard B. Lowe 
dismissed a lawsuit Al-Gosaibi had filed against Awal and al-
Sanea, on grounds of that court being an improper forum.  Lawsuits involving Awal are ongoing in Bahrain, Kuwait,
Saudi Arabia, Switzerland and the U.K., according to court
papers.  Saad Group began building sewage and storm-water systems in
Jeddah in western Saudi Arabia and later expanded into real
estate, health care and banking, including taking a stake in
HSBC Holdings Plc.  The case is In re Awal Bank BSC, 10-15518, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York bankruptcy court at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 