-- Hawk Corp. Sued by Shareholder Over $413 Million Carlisle Cos. Buyout Plan
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-10-26T20:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/hawk-corp-sued-by-shareholder-over-413-million-carlisle-cos-buyout-plan.html
Hawk Corp. , the maker of brakes,
clutches and other friction products that’s being bought by
 Carlisle Cos. , was sued by an investor who claims stockholders
will be shortchanged in the $413 million deal.  Hawk, based in Cleveland, said in an Oct. 15 statement that
it would be acquired by Carlisle, a construction materials maker
with headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina, for $50 a share
in cash.  “The proposed transaction comes at a time when the
company’s stock price is on a strong  upswing” and “insiders
are well aware of the company’s intrinsic value and that Hawk
shares are significantly undervalued,” shareholder Timothy B.
Hardy said in a Delaware Chancery Court lawsuit filed late
yesterday in Wilmington.  The companies said in the statement that the buyout will
expand Carlisle’s line of products and help it in emerging
markets including China, India and Brazil.  Hardy asked a judge to grant the lawsuit class-action, or
group, status on behalf of all outside stockholders; to halt the
transaction as it stands; and to award damages and legal fees
and expenses.  Officials of Hawk and Carlisle didn’t immediately return
phone messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Hawk, with $172.4 million in sales last year, fell 3 cents
to $49.85 at 4:15 p.m. in NYSE Amex  trading . Carlisle, with
$2.38 billion in 2009 revenue,  fell  29 cents to $34.40 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is Hardy v. Hawk Corp., CA5925, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 