-- Bahrain's Interest Rate Is Currently `Suitable,' Central Bank Chief Says
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l ,   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2010-10-26T17:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/bahrain-s-interest-rate-is-currently-suitable-central-bank-chief-says.html
Bahrain’s interest rate is currently
“suitable,” the governor of the kingdom’s Central Bank,
 Rasheed al-Maraj , said in Morocco.  “Our primary objective is to set our interest rate to suit
our economic activities; we have cut interest rates dramatically
over the past two years as a result of the downturn in the
global economy,” al-Maraj said today in an interview at the
World Economic Forum in Marrakesh. “I think we have reached a
level now where we think our interest rates are suitable.”  The Central Bank last cut its key interest rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 0.5 percent on Sept. 15, 2009,
as lower oil prices then slowed economic growth.  Growth in Bahrain will accelerate as much as 4.5 percent
this year from 3 percent last year, Sheikh Mohammed bin Essa al-
Khalifa, chief executive officer of Bahrain’s Economic
Development Board, told a conference in Manama Oct. 4. Inflation
slowed in September to 2 percent from 2.4 percent in the
previous month, according to the state statistics agency.  “The issue of quantitative easing is primarily an issue
for the U.S.; if you think the economy will grow at a higher
rate then it’s good for us,” al-Maraj said. “What matters to
us is that the U.S. economy gets fixed.”  The dollar dropped to a 15-year low yesterday versus the
yen after a Group of 20 pledge to avoid “competitive
devaluation” failed to dispel concern that the Federal Reserve
will weaken the U.S. currency by announcing more bond purchases.  Dollar Declines  The greenback slid against most of its major counterparts
as investors added to bets that a boost in quantitative easing
will support higher-returning assets. Sterling fell to the
lowest level against the yen since February 2009 as declining
mortgage approvals in the U.K. spurred speculation that the Bank
of England will buy more debt.  The price of oil “has restored confidence” in the region,
al-Maraj said.  Crude oil for December delivery fell 6 cents to $82.46 a
barrel at 10:37 a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Futures are up 4.8 percent from a year ago. Brent crude oil for
December settlement dropped 6 cents to $83.48 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camilla Hall in Marrakesh at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net ;
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
 Francine Lacqua  in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 