-- Banorte Rises After Ex-Central Bank Governor Ortiz Named Board Chairman
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-10-27T16:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/banorte-said-to-name-ex-central-banker-ortiz-chairman-replacing-gonzalez.html
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB ,
Mexico’s third-largest bank by outstanding loans, rose in Mexico
City trading after naming former Mexico central bank Governor
 Guillermo Ortiz  as its chairman.  Banorte rose 48 centavos, or 0.9 percent, to 52.2 pesos at
12:13 p.m. New York time. The company was the second-biggest
gainer in Mexico’s IPC index after Gruma SAB. Investors must
sign off on Ortiz’s appointment after the board approved the
proposal by Chairman  Roberto Gonzalez , who will become chairman
emeritus, Banorte said in a statement yesterday.  Ortiz, 62, joins a bank that is turning to acquisitions for
growth. The company is in talks to buy Ixe Grupo Financiero SAB,
which Banorte said would add to cost savings and to its loan
portfolio. Banorte Chief Executive Officer Alejandro Valenzuela
said yesterday he’s interested in all of Ixe’s units, which
include banking, mortgages and investment management.  Ortiz’s arrival will help the Monterrey, Mexico-based bank
cement confidence in its brand in Mexico and abroad, said Rafael
Escobar, an analyst with Vector Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City.  “This is one of the names with the greatest weight in the
Mexican financial sector,” he said. “It’s a person that gives
prestige to a very reputable institution such as Banorte.”  Banorte’s third-quarter net income rose 20 percent from a
year earlier to 1.71 billion pesos ($138 million) as its loan
portfolio expanded, the company said in the statement.
Outstanding loans expanded about 8 percent to 254 billion pesos.  ‘Important Change’  Ortiz led the central bank for two six-year terms before
being replaced by  Agustin Carstens  last year. As governor, Ortiz
oversaw the bank’s implementation of a system to target
inflation and the transition to an interest-rate setting system
like the one used by the U.S. Federal Reserve.  “It’s a very important change in my career,” Ortiz said
today in an interview broadcast on Mexico City-based Radio
Formula. Banorte will increase its “relevance” in the Mexican
market with the Ixe merger, he said.  Banorte is seeking to close the agreement with Ixe by the
middle of November, Valenzuela said today on the same broadcast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net  