-- BBVA Quarterly Profit May Decline as Earnings Slide in Spain
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-10-26T07:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/bbva-quarterly-profit-may-decline-as-earnings-slide-in-spain.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA ,
Spain’s second-biggest lender, may say third-quarter profit fell
14 percent as low interest rates and weak loan demand hurt bank
earnings in its home market.  Profit may have dropped to 1.19 billion euros ($1.66
billion) from 1.38 billion euros a year earlier, according to
the average estimate of eight analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
The Bilbao, Spain-based lender will publish its results tomorrow
morning before the market opens.  Spanish banks including BBVA, which  earns  about half its
profit from its home country, are battling to attract deposits
and rein in defaults as low interest rates reduce loan returns.
BBVA, which is seeking to diversify earnings, said Oct. 21 that
it was in talks to buy a stake in Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS, a
Turkish bank partly owned by General Electric Co.  “The Spanish numbers are clearly going to be quite poor,”
said  Arturo de Frias , an  analyst  at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
London who rates BBVA “buy.” “What I also think will become
more important going forward is the outlook for revenue in
Spain.”  BBVA, led by Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez , has declined 24
percent this year in Madrid trading, valuing the bank at 36.2
billion euros. Larger rival Banco Santander SA, which reports
third-quarter profit Oct. 28, has dropped 17 percent.  Funding Costs  BBVA’s profit from Spain and Portugal may have declined 17
percent to 486 million euros in the quarter, according to
estimates from JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts  Ignacio Cerezo ,
 Andrea Unzueta  and  Axel Finsterbusch . Spanish banks face higher
funding costs as they compete for retail deposits and must also
speed up their recognition of asset impairments to comply with
new Bank of Spain rules.  Gains of 250 million euros from the sale and leaseback of
property may help offset those charges, the JPMorgan analysts
said.  Banco Espanol de Credito SA, a Spanish retail unit of
Santander, reported a 5.4 percent drop in third-quarter net
interest income, and Bankinter SA, a 40 percent decline, as
their loan books re-priced to reflect lower interest rates.  Profit from Mexico, BBVA’s second-biggest market after
Spain, may have climbed 11 percent to 419 million euros from a
year ago, according to estimates from Banco BPI SA.  Earnings from South America, where BBVA owns banks from
Colombia to Argentina, may have dropped 31 percent to 140
million euros, BPI said. Profit from the U.S., where BBVA took
charges of 1.05 billion euros to write down goodwill and loan
losses in the fourth quarter of last year, probably more than
doubled to 83 million euros, according to BPI.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  