-- Belgian Debt Agency Says Political Stalemate Is Weighing on Bond Spreads
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-26T13:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/belgian-debt-agency-says-political-stalemate-is-weighing-on-bond-spreads.html
Belgium’s government stalemate has
likely pushed bond yields an extra 20 basis points above German
securities, according to a senior official at the country’s debt
agency, as investors demand compensation for political risk.  “The fact that we’re in a phase where the politicians are
still trying to form a government has weighed on the spread,”
 Anne Leclercq , director for treasury and capital markets at the
Belgian Debt Agency, said in an interview in Brussels.  Belgium has increasingly been compared with so-called
peripheral nations such as Greece, Ireland and Spain as the
leadership vacuum constrains efforts to cope with Europe’s
third-biggest debt after Italy and Greece. The country, whose
bonds are rated AA+ by Standard & Poor’s, retains a caretaker
government four months after an inconclusive election, as
Flemish nationalists and francophone parties have failed to
reconcile their differences.  While “the  spread  remains subdued and markets are showing
confidence in Belgium,” the standoff probably “adds about 20
basis points” to extra yield investors demand to hold Belgian
securities over bunds, Leclercq said late yesterday. German debt
is Europe’s benchmark.  Belgian 10-year bonds  yielded  79 basis points more than
German debt of similar maturity as of 2 p.m. in London. The
spread has contracted for three straight days, though it
surpassed 90 basis points earlier this month and is still above
the average of 62 basis points for this year.  Steady Issuance  Coalition talks have stalled as French-speaking parties
opposed Flemish demands to give the country’s regions the power
to collect 45 percent of personal income taxes.  Belgium will probably issue up to 38 billion euros ($53
billion) of bonds next year, similar to the level planned for
2010, Leclercq said. The debt agency plans to sell a 10-year
bond next year and may issue longer-maturity debt, depending on
demand, as part of a plan to “lengthen the average life of our
portfolio as long as we can,” she said.  The average maturity of bonds issued is now 6.48 years, up
from 5.94 years at the beginning of 2010, according to Leclercq.
That compares with the average of 14 years for Britain, data
from the U.K. Debt Management Agency shows.  Belgium forecasts that the country’s budget deficit for
this year will decline to 4.8 percent of gross domestic product
from 5.9 percent last year.  “For the next year, we have a bit more redemptions, but we
are very confident that the budget deficit will be lower than
this year,” Leclercq said. “So, our demand on the market will
be very similar to this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Campbell at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  