-- Berkowitz to Start Allocation Fund Investing in Stocks, Bonds, Cash Assets
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2010-10-26T20:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/berkowitz-to-start-allocation-fund-investing-in-stocks-bonds-cash-assets.html
Bruce Berkowitz , named U.S. stock
manager of the decade in January by Morningstar Inc., is
starting a mutual fund that will spread investments between
stocks, bonds and cash-like financial instruments.  Fairholme Funds Inc. filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission today to sell shares in the Fairholme
Allocation Fund. Berkowitz will run the fund with  Charles Fernandez , president of Miami-based Fairholme Capital Management
LLC.  The new allocation fund will give Berkowitz further room to
delve into bonds, an asset class he increasingly invested in
when the 2008 financial crisis began. As of June 30, Berkowitz’s
stock-picking prowess has helped his Fairholme Fund generate an
 average  annual return of almost 13 percent since starting up in
December 1999, compared with a yearly decline of about 1.5
percent in the benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , according
to the filing.  “It’s like going back to the days of old with a mutual
fund that will make you money by going anywhere,” said  Geoff Bobroff , a money-manager consultant based in East Greenwich,
Rhode Island.  Berkowitz, 52, didn’t return a telephone call seeking
comment. As of Sept. 30, Fairholme Capital Management oversaw
$18.2 billion, according to the filing, including $16.3 billion
in its two existing mutual funds and another $1.9 billion in
separate client accounts.  The Fairholme Allocation Fund will seek returns by
“investing opportunistically” in a “focused portfolio” of
equity, fixed income, and cash-equivalent instruments, according
to today’s filing. The fund will have the leeway to invest any,
all or none of its assets in each class and will be able to
invest in a wide array of securities, including junk bonds,
convertible debt, partnerships and real estate investment
trusts.  Value Approach  “The fund seeks to capitalize on anticipated fluctuations
in the financial markets by changing the mix” of its holdings
in the three target asset classes, Fairholme said in the filing.  Berkowitz takes a value approach to investing, looking for
companies that are cheap based on the amount of cash they
generate, according to Chris Sizemore, a portfolio manager with
Vision Capital Management Inc., a Portland, Oregon, investment
adviser whose $250 million in assets include a $4 million stake
in the Fairholme Fund.  As of May 31, the fund’s top 10 holdings, including General
Growth Properties Inc. and American International Group Inc.,
equaled 63 percent of assets.  The Fairholme Fund  disclosed in January 2009 that its
principal strategy had been revised to include fixed-income
securities as well as equities. During the quarter ended Nov.
30, 2009, Berkowitz began buying the convertible bonds and bank
debt of General Growth Properties, the Chicago-based mall owner
that won court approval this month for the final stage of its
bankruptcy reorganization.  Additional Leeway  As of May 31, the Fairholme Fund had 16.8 percent of its
holdings in corporate and asset-backed debt as well as bank
loans, up from none at Nov. 30, 2007. In December 2009,
Berkowitz started up a second mutual fund, Fairholme Focused
Income, to invest in “cash-distributing” securities such as
bonds and bank loans.  Berkowitz is starting the allocation fund to give himself
additional leeway to invest in special situations, according to
 Michael Breen , an analyst at Chicago-based Morningstar. In
December 2008, Fairholme Fund swapped AmeriCredit Corp. bonds it
had purchased for shares of the auto financing company, helping
to reduce its debt.  “The Fairholme Fund is pretty big and it will limit itself
on some of the more creative financing deals,” such as
AmeriCredit, Breen said. “They might have a little more
flexibility with a smaller vehicle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 