-- Berlusconi Says Immunity Law to Shield Premier Is `Absolutely Essential'
-- B y   S t e v e   S c h e r e r
-- 2010-10-26T13:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/berlusconi-says-immunity-law-to-shield-premier-is-absolutely-essential-.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who is on trial for corruption, said a law that
shields the premier and the president from criminal prosecution
is “essential” because magistrates are politically biased.  A Senate committee in Rome this week is voting on a bill to
change the constitution and protect the country’s two highest
institutional offices from prosecution. Berlusconi’s comments
were made last week to television personality Bruno Vespa and
are to be published in Vespa’s latest book in November. Vespa
sent an advance copy of the comments by e-mail.  “A law that suspends trials against those who hold the
state’s top offices as they carry out their institutional duties
is needed,” Berlusconi said. “Given the type of prosecutors we
have to deal with, it’s absolutely essential.”  Since coming to power in 2008, Berlusconi’s allies have
passed two immunity measures for the prime minister. The first
was struck down by the Constitutional Court, which is scheduled
to rule on the second one in December. A third measure now being
debated in the Senate seeks to change the constitution to avoid
conflict with Italy’s 1948 legal framework, which states “the
law is the same for everyone.”  Chamber of Deputies Speaker  Gianfranco Fini , who leads a
group of lawmakers that left Berlusconi’s party in July, has
said he’d give necessary backing to the immunity measure as long
as it applies for only one term. Fini yesterday said the
government risks collapsing over justice issues. Berlusconi has
pledged to present a constitutional overhaul of the justice
system this week.  ‘Political Tool’  Berlusconi says prosecutors are trying to undermine his
government. “Let me just say once more that once again the
justice system is being used as a political tool to denigrate
the prime minister,” Berlusconi told Vespa.  Berlusconi has faced a dozen trials since first coming to
power in 1994. The Milan court is trying Berlusconi for
allegedly paying $600,000 to U.K. lawyer David Mills to lie
under oath on his behalf, and separately for committing tax
fraud in moving money to offshore companies used to purchase
movie rights from Hollywood production companies. He denies any
wrongdoing, and both trials are currently suspended.  Earlier this month, Rome prosecutors said they were probing
Berlusconi and his son, Pier Silvio, for tax fraud.  “The accusation is that there was tax evasion for less
than 1 million euros ($1.4 million) when that year -- 2004 -- my
group paid 448 million euros in taxes,” Berlusconi said. “I’ve
been assured that the discrepancy is due to a different
interpretation of the tax code by our accountants, and by the
tax collection agency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Scherer  at 
 sscherer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  