-- Bernanke Asset Purchases Risk Unleashing 1970s Inflation Genie
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2010-10-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/bernanke-s-next-round-of-asset-purchases-risks-jimmy-carter-like-inflation.html
For the second time since he became
chairman in 2006,  Ben S. Bernanke  is leading the Federal Reserve
into uncharted monetary territory.  Bernanke next week is likely to preside over a decision to
launch another round of large-scale asset purchases after
deploying $1.7 trillion to pull the economy out of the financial
crisis, comments from policy makers over the past week indicate.
This time, with interest rates already near zero, the Fed will
be aiming to increase the rate of inflation and reduce the cost
of borrowing in real terms. The goal is to unlock consumer
spending and jump-start an economy that’s growing too slowly to
push unemployment lower.  Estimates for the ultimate size of the asset-purchase
program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
Global Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with
economists at both firms agreeing the Fed will likely start by
announcing $500 billion after the Nov. 2-3 meeting. The danger
is that once the Fed kindles price increases, inflation will be
difficult to control.  “By reducing real interest rates and trying to break the
psychology of ‘Why spend today when I can buy goods cheaper
tomorrow,’ they are hoping to drive growth that would be more
commensurate with a pickup in employment,” said  Dan Greenhaus ,
chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.
“The risk is a late 1970s type of scenario where the inflation
genie gets out of the bottle.”  The U.S. Treasury Department yesterday sold $10 billion of
five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities at a negative
yield for the first time at a U.S. debt auction as investors bet
the Fed will be successful in sparking inflation. The securities
drew a yield of negative 0.55 percent.  ‘Unacceptable’ Inflation  William Dudley , president of the New York Fed and vice
chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee, yesterday
repeated that current levels of inflation and a 9.6 percent
unemployment rate are “unacceptable” and said the Fed needs to
take action, even though expanding the balance sheet isn’t a
“perfect tool.”  “To the extent that we can do things to improve the
economic environment, we certainly owe it to the millions of
people who are unemployed to do so,” Dudley said in response to
audience questions after a speech in Ithaca, New York. Policy
makers haven’t yet decided whether to buy additional assets, he
said.  A second jolt of monetary stimulus would expand the Fed’s
$2.3 trillion balance sheet to a record and likely work through
the exchange rate as well as interest rates, said former Fed
governor  Lyle Gramley . A weaker dollar would boost U.S. exports
and push prices higher as the cost of imported goods rises.  Competitive Exports  “It is a channel that works not only from the standpoint of
encouraging more growth and making  exports  more competitive, but
if you’re worried about inflation getting too low, this tends to
put a little upward pressure” on it, said Gramley, a senior
adviser at Potomac Research Group in Washington.  An  index  of the dollar versus six major currencies is down
5.2 percent since Sept. 20, the day before Fed officials
concluded their last meeting by saying inflation measures were
“somewhat below those the Committee judges most consistent,
over the longer run, with its mandate to promote maximum
employment and price stability.” The Standard and Poor’s 500
 Index  is up 3.8 percent since then.  A 10 percent decline in the dollar in the first six months
of next year would push the economy above estimates of trend
growth, moving indicators on inflation and employment more
rapidly toward the Fed’s policy goals, according to a simulation
run by Macroeconomic Advisers LLC on their model of the U.S.
economy.  Effect on GDP  Gross domestic product would rise 1.1 percentage points
more than the St. Louis-based firm’s baseline forecast for next
year, to 4.8 percent. In 2012, growth of 5.7 percent would
exceed the baseline forecast by 1.3 percentage points.  Unemployment  would fall to 7 percent by the end of 2012,
1.4 points lower than the firm’s baseline forecast. The consumer
price index, minus food and energy, would rise 0.4 percent and
0.7 percent more each year.  A continuing rally in stocks could also provide an added
lift to growth, the firm’s simulation showed.  The firm, co-founded by former Fed governor  Laurence Meyer ,
predicts the Wilshire 5000 stock index will jump 14 percent next
year and 16 percent in 2012. The index tracks the impact of
rising asset prices on household net worth. An additional 10
percent gain in the stock index in the first half of 2011 boosts
growth by 0.1 percentage point and 0.3 percentage point more
than the firm’s baseline forecast.  ‘Transmission Mechanism’  “The transmission mechanisms are risk assets and a lower
dollar,” said  Steven Einhorn , who helps manage $5 billion at
hedge fund Omega Advisors Inc. in New York. “Exports will
respond over the next six to 12 months, and a further lift in
risk assets will have benefits in more consumer spending as it
lifts households’ net worth.”  A weaker dollar won’t be welcomed by U.S. trading partners
concerned about the danger of competitive devaluations as
nations seek to boost exports and growth.  Bernanke received “criticism” at a meeting of Group of 20
central bankers and finance ministers in South Korea last
weekend, said German Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle .  “It’s the wrong way to try to prevent or solve problems by
adding more liquidity,” Bruederle told reporters. “Excessive,
permanent money creation in my opinion is an indirect
manipulation of an exchange rate.”  $500 Billion  Economists  Jan Hatzius  at Goldman Sachs and  Ethan Harris  at
Bank of America predict the Fed will spread an initial $500
billion in asset purchases over six months. That is the figure
mentioned in the Oct. 1 speech by Dudley, who said $500 billion
in purchases could have the same effect as cutting the benchmark
federal funds rate by as much as a 0.75 percentage point.  The FOMC’s meeting next week could be contentious, with
regional bank presidents such as  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia
and  Richard Fisher  of Dallas expressing concern in public
remarks about a second round of asset purchases. Neither is a
voting member of the FOMC this year.  Plosser told reporters Oct. 20 that high unemployment may
not be “amenable to monetary-policy solutions” and added that
he was “less inclined to want to follow a policy that is highly
concentrated on raising inflation and raising inflation
expectations.”  Fisher  said central bank officials must be mindful of the
effect their actions are having on the dollar.  Dollar Impact  “We need to be aware of the impact whatever we do has on
other variables, and one of the variables is the dollar, the
value of the dollar against other currencies,” Fisher said in
an Oct. 22 interview in New York.  The prospect of an easier policy for a long period could
prompt foreign investors to use Fed purchases as an opportunity
to unload longer-term Treasuries, said  Vincent Reinhart , former
director of the Fed Board’s Division of Monetary Affairs.  “This might put more pressure on the exchange value of the
dollar than the Fed is willing to tolerate,” said Reinhart, a
resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in
Washington.  Some commodity prices have already started to move up in
anticipation of further Fed stimulus. Gold futures traded on the
Comex in New York have risen 22 percent this year to $1,338.90
an ounce, while silver is up 40 percent.  “The Fed would like to talk up as many asset classes as it
can,” said  Scott Minerd , the Santa Monica-based chief
investment officer at Guggenheim Partners LLC, who helps oversee
$76 billion.  Asset Bubbles  “The history of the Fed, over the last 20 years, is one of
bubble to bubble: one bubble deflates to create another
bubble,” Minerd said. “We are certainly heading into the
mother of all bubbles with commodities and gold.”  Another danger for the Fed is that its policy fails to have
the intended effect, damaging the central bank’s credibility,
Reinhart said.  “What happens if they bulk up the portfolio by another
$500 billion in the next six months and there is no material
change in markets or the outlook,” he said. “Presumably, the
Fed will double-down and buy some more, but at some point,
people will ask, ‘Is that all there is?’”  U.S. central bankers cut the  benchmark lending rate  to zero
in December 2008. Seeking more stimulus, they launched a $1.7
trillion program to buy mortgage-backed securities, housing
agency debt and U.S. Treasuries. The purchases ended in March.  Jackson Hole  Bernanke told central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, in
August that those purchases “pushed investors into holding
other assets with similar characteristics,” lowering interest
rates on a broad range of debt.  While a second round of Treasury purchases would also lower
nominal rates, the FOMC has been explicit about the need to
lower real interest rates through higher inflation, minutes of
its Sept. 21 meeting show.  The personal consumption expenditures price index, minus
food and energy, rose at a 1.4 percent annual rate in August.
That’s below the Fed’s long-run preference range of 1.7 percent
to 2 percent. The year-over-year increase in consumer prices
jumped as high as 14.8 percent in 1980 during the administration
of Jimmy Carter.  Even moderate rates of inflation can shift wealth through
the economy. Companies can make more money because their prices
rise faster than wages. Households can also benefit as incomes
eventually rise while costs on fixed-rate debt stay the same.  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. chief financial officer  John Hartung  told Bloomberg Television Oct. 22 that he expects
inflation to be in the low-single to mid-single digits next
year. “We would welcome modest inflation along with the
continued pickup in consumer demand,” Hartung said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washingtont ; or  Scott Lanman 
in Washington at   slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  