-- BG, Santos LNG Development Costs May Rise on Australia Environmental Terms
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-26T08:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/bg-santos-lng-costs-may-rise-on-australian-environmental-terms.html
BG Group Plc  and  Santos Ltd.  may
have to pay more to develop their proposed Queensland liquefied
natural gas projects because of the more than 300 environmental
conditions imposed by the Australian government, analysts said.  “This represents more conditions than even the Gorgon”
LNG development led by  Chevron Corp ., Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Sydney-based analyst  James Bullen  wrote in a report
yesterday. He kept his projection of spending on a Santos
project with two gas processing units at A$20 billion ($19
billion), saying he would wait for estimates from the company.  The cost of Santos’s Gladstone LNG venture with two
production units may be as much as 16 percent higher than
previously forecast,  John Hirjee , a Melbourne-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank, wrote in an Oct. 22 report. He expects the
project, which includes Paris-based  Total SA  and Kuala Lumpur-
based Petroliam Nasional Bhd., to cost as much as A$19 billion,
compared with A$16.4 billion previously.  BG and Adelaide-based Santos on Oct. 22 won Australian
government approval to develop the first projects in the world
that will liquefy gas extracted from coal seams for shipment to
overseas customers. Environment Minister  Tony Burke  said the
companies must comply with “tough conditions” to protect
underground water supplies. Both companies aim to commit to
their projects by the end of this year.  Investment Decision  Matthew Doman , a Santos spokesman, declined to comment on
costs, saying that the company has “always allowed for the
highest environmental standards” in developing its projects.
“We are assessing the conditions and intend to complete our
evaluation - and conclude discussions on a final investment
decision - this year,” BG’s Australian unit said in an e-mail.  The A$43 billion Gorgon LNG project, the nation’s largest
resources investment, is being built on Barrow Island, a nature
reserve off northwestern Australia. Environmental groups and
farmers have said they are concerned that the Santos development
and BG’s Queensland Curtis LNG venture may threaten water
sources.  Under the conditions, the government will limit the amount
of water Santos and BG can draw, the number of wells they can
drill, and require them to detail the chemicals they use to
extract gas. The minister will establish a panel of scientific
advisers to evaluate the projects, the Environment Department’s
website shows.  Great Barrier Reef  Santos, Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer, and
Reading, U.K.-based BG also must contribute at least A$4 million
each to the management of the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage
Area, the government said.  The “conditions are numerous, but it does not appear they
will significantly impact capex” or the timing of a final
investment decision,  JPMorgan Chase  & Co.’s Sydney-based analyst
 Benjamin Wilson  wrote in a report yesterday.  Coal-seam gas is mostly methane found on the surface of
coal. The water pumped out to release the gas contains varying
amounts of salt, which must be managed to protect the
environment, the Queensland government says on its website.  BG’s venture may represent an investment of A$12 billion to
A$15 billion by the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas company,
Australian Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 