-- BlackRock Plans Copper-Backed Exchange-Traded Product as Metal Prices Gain
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-10-26T17:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/blackrock-plans-copper-backed-exchange-traded-product-update1-.html
BlackRock Inc.,  the world’s biggest
money manager, plans to introduce an exchange-traded product
backed by copper amid record investment in commodities.  Shares of the iShares Copper Trust, sponsored by BlackRock
Asset Management International Inc., will each represent 10
kilograms (22 pounds) of the metal, the company said in a filing
today to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Copper for
delivery in three months closed at $8,518 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange yesterday. The proposed maximum aggregate
offering price in the filing is $999.9 million.  Commodity assets in ETPs, medium-term notes and funds
linked to indexes advanced about 9 percent to a record $320
billion last month, according to Barclays Capital. Investment
flows reached $8.5 billion in September, the third-highest
figure ever recorded, the bank said Oct. 19.  “There are several copper ETFs in the pipeline and if they
go live, depending on their exact set-up and success, they could
have an impact” on prices, stockpiles and premiums for physical
metal,  Michael Widmer , an analyst at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, said in an e-mail.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. also plans an ETP backed by copper,
according to an SEC filing Oct. 22. ETF Securities Ltd. said on
Oct. 11 that it’s preparing to start ETPs backed by six
industrial metals.  LME Copper  Copper traded on the LME gained 15 percent this year as
mining companies failed to keep up with demand. Stockpiles in
warehouses monitored by the bourse slumped 27 percent to 367,475
tons this year. BlackRock is registering 12.12 million shares,
equal to 121,200 tons of copper, assuming each share represents
10 kilograms.  Metro International Trade Services LLC, owned by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. , is the custodian and will hold copper in U.S.
warehouses, BlackRock said in the filing. Other locations may be
added later on, according to the filing. The fees paid to the
custodian to hold metal were not detailed in the filing.  “Under certain structures, a financial product that takes
physical delivery could impact short-term prices,” Goldman
Sachs analysts led by London-based  Jeffrey Currie  said today in
a report. Still, “any meaningful impact would not be sustained
beyond the short-term as resulting market tightness would
quickly generate incentives for investors to sell the metal back
into the market.”  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 