-- Blackburn Rovers Hope to Complete Sale to India's Venky's Next Month
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-10-26T11:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/blackburn-rovers-expects-to-complete-sale-to-india-s-venky-s-next-month.html
The  owners  of Venky’s (India) Ltd.
will pay 46 million pounds ($73 million) to purchase the
Blackburn Rovers Football Club, the 1995 Premier League champion,
to tap rising viewership of the game in India.  The purchase is expected to be completed in 10 days,
 Venkatesh Rao , joint managing director at the Pune, India-based
company, said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV today.
Chairwoman  Anuradha J. Desai  and other owners of Venky’s, which
runs poultry farms, will become the first from the South Asian
nation to own a team in the world’s richest soccer league.  “The young generation is getting interested in football,”
Rao said. “It’s a win-win situation.”  Venky’s will have to compete with cricket for viewership in
the South Asian nation. Cricket attracts sponsors including
Citigroup Inc. and Vodafone Group Plc, while India ranks 132nd
among soccer playing nations. Venky’s owners join IMG Worldwide
Inc., a sports-management agency, and  Mukesh Ambani , India’s
richest man, in promoting soccer in a cricket-obsessed nation.  “The message is loud and clear that the aspirations of
Indian promoters has gone global,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla ,
New Delhi-based chief strategist at SMC Global Securities Ltd.  Venky’s fell 2.8 percent to 915.25 rupees in Mumbai trading.
The  stock  has more than tripled this year.  Blackburn finished 10th in the Premier League last season.
It’s in 17th position in the 20-team top division after losing
2-1 to Liverpool two days ago.  “A series of meetings, including discussions with the
Premier League, have followed an extensive due diligence
process,” Blackburn’s Chairman  John Williams  said in a
statement. “Both parties are hopeful that the transaction will
be completed in November.”  Ted Forstmann, chairman of IMG and co-founder of buyout
firm Forstmann Little & Co., and Ambani, chairman of Reliance
Industries Ltd., plan to set up an elite sports academy to train
athletes in India, where four-fifths of the population is under
50.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 Sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  