-- Blockbuster Counsel Weil Rejects Claim It Has Conflict
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-10-26T21:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/blockbuster-counsel-weil-rejects-claim-it-has-conflict-update1-.html
Blockbuster Inc. ’s bankruptcy
counsel,  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP , said its work for film
studios doesn’t create a conflict of interest with its
representation of the movie-rental company, as an investor
claims.  Lyme Regis Partners LLC, an investor in Blockbuster’s
9 percent senior notes, objected to Blockbuster’s hiring the law
firm, saying its relationships with movie studios mean it isn’t
“disinterested” as the law requires. That claim is unfounded,
the law firm said yesterday in a filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in New York.  “The fact that Lyme Regis, an obvious distressed-debt
trader, made a bad investment by purchasing not only unsecured
but contractually subordinated debt does not give it license to
submit frivolous pleadings,”  Weil Gotshal ’s lawyers wrote.  Lyme Regis objected to other motions in Dallas-based
Blockbuster’s Chapter 11 case, including its bid to finance
operations. It said the company structured its bankruptcy to
protect movie studios and game-providers to the detriment of
other creditors.  Scott McMillan, a lawyer for Lyme Regis, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  Weil represents only one of nine studios that Blockbuster
may pay in its bankruptcy, Sony Pictures Home Entertainment. Its
work for Sony is “connected to antitrust and decree issues”
and doesn’t create a conflict, its lawyers wrote in court
filings. Weil isn’t finalizing an agreement for Buena Vista Home
Entertainment and Disney Interactive Studios, Weil added.  Client List  Weil also made a list of all other  Blockbuster  creditors it
might work for, including landlords, movie studios and insurers,
and disclosed to the court all clients for whom it had worked in
the past two years.  Blockbuster, the world’s biggest movie-rental company,
entered bankruptcy protection Sept. 23. The company said in its
Chapter 11 petition that it had agreed with a group of
bondholders on a plan of reorganization and secured the loan to
finance operations during its bankruptcy.  Under the proposed reorganization plan, holders of the
company’s outstanding subordinated debt, preferred stock or
common stock won’t recover anything. Senior bondholders will
swap their debt for equity in the reorganized company.
Billionaire  Carl Icahn’s  Icahn Capital LP, a senior creditor,
would have the authority to choose two  directors  outright and
would need agreement from Monarch Alternative Capital LP and
other noteholders to pick a third, according to court papers.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York bankruptcy court at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 