-- Blom Bank Sees `Major Improvement' in Profitability This Year, Azhari Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-10-26T17:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/blom-bank-sees-major-improvement-in-profitability-this-year-azhari-says.html
Blom Bank SAL , the largest Lebanese
lender by profit, expects a “major improvement” in earnings
this year, Chairman  Saad Azhari  said.  The bank also plans to open more branches in Lebanon,
Syria, Egypt and Jordan and is looking at other markets in the
Middle East, Azhari said in an interview today at the World
Economic Forum in Marrakesh, Morocco.  “We expect 2010 to be a major improvement” compared with
the previous year, Azhari said. “The economy is still growing
very strong. In 2011, we are expecting more momentum not only in
Lebanon, but also in Egypt in Jordan and Syria and other
countries in the Arab world.”  Lebanon’s currency peg to the dollar since 1993, coupled
with high interest rates on Lebanese-pound deposits, has helped
attract billions of dollars to the country from Lebanese living
abroad. That has enabled banks to finance consumer loan growth
as well as the government’s fiscal deficits and one of the
world’s heaviest debt burdens. The International Monetary Fund
and the  Central Bank  forecast growth of 8 percent in 2010 after
9 percent last year.  Blom said Oct. 23 non-audited profit for the first nine
months of 2010 was $235.8 million, an annual increase of 15
percent.  “We are seeing a very strong expansion. We are opening
more branches and we are grabbing market share,” Azhari said.
“We are looking at other countries in the Middle East.”  The bank plans to open at least three branches in Egypt
next year and five or six in Syria within a year, he said. Blom
expects to open another three branches in Jordan and six or
seven branches in Lebanon within the next six or seven months,
he said.  Blom bank has increased 4.76 percent on the Beirut stock
exchange this year. Its market value is $1.89 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Marrakesh, Morocco at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net  