-- BlueMountain Flagship Fund Said to Return 8.5% to 9% This Year
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-10-26T13:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/bluemountain-flagship-hedge-fund-is-said-to-return-as-much-as-9-this-year.html
BlueMountain Capital Management LLC ,
the hedge fund whose founders helped create credit-default
swaps, returned 8.5 percent to 9 percent this year in its main
fund, according to people familiar with the results.  The Credit Alternatives Fund holds $2.6 billion in client
assets, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the gains haven’t been made public. As much as 80 percent of the
advances are attributable to trading individual credit swaps and
buying the equity portion of collateralized-loan obligations and
slices of default-swap indexes, the people said.  The returns from BlueMountain, which manages $4 billion
overall, compare with the average increase in the industry of
4.8 percent through September, according to Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc.’s HFRI Fund Weighted Composite  Index .
BlueMountain is gaining partly because of credit bets that
profit from differences in prices between bonds, loans and
derivatives as markets continue to recover from the financial
crisis two years ago.  “We wouldn’t advocate right now any sort of market
directional position,”  Andrew Feldstein , BlueMountain’s chief
executive officer, said in May at the Bloomberg Markets Hedge
Fund Summit in New York. “There are huge opportunities --
massive opportunities -- totally independent of market
direction.”  Doug Hesney, a BlueMountain spokesman, declined to comment
on the results.  Evenly Matched  Investor requests to be paid back and new cash flowing into
the firm’s funds have been about evenly matched for the past
year, the people said.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. JPMorgan Chase & Co. bankers developed the products more
than a decade ago to hedge against losses from bank loans. One
of them, Feldstein, helped start BlueMountain in 2003.  Investment-grade corporate bonds worldwide have returned
9.3 percent this year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Bonds rated below
investment grade have returned 14.8 percent, the bank’s Global
High Yield Index shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  