-- BNP Stays Bearish on Pound After GDP Beats Estimates, Sees QE Next Year
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-26T15:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/bnp-stays-bearish-on-pound-after-gdp-beats-estimates-sees-qe-next-year.html
BNP Paribas SA said it’s still
bearish on the pound even after a report today showed Britain’s
economy grew at double the pace forecast by economists, and
suggested investors should sell the currency as it rebounds.  The economy will weaken from here and the Bank of England
may resume another round of bond purchases to support the
recovery next year, perhaps as early as February, according to
 Hans-Guenter Redeker , the London-based global head of currency
strategy at BNP Paribas.  Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the three months
through September after increasing 1.2 percent in the previous
quarter, a government report today showed. The pound jumped as
much as 1.1 percent to $1.5897 after the data, which eased
pressure on the Bank of England to extend its so-called
quantitative-easing program next week.  “The number today doesn’t change our view on the U.K.
economy or the pound,” Redeker said in an interview. “Any
rebound in sterling should be seen as a good point to enter, or
add to, a short position.” The French bank maintained its
forecast that the pound will fall to $1.54 by the end of 2010.  It was the first GDP report from a Group of Seven nation
and came as central banks around the world debate whether to add
more stimulus to aid a faltering global recovery.  “The strong number didn’t surprise us as the economy
entered the third quarter with a lot of good momentum,” said
Redeker. “But if you look at forward-looking indicators,
especially those related to credit growth, they are rather weak.
The decline has been driven mostly by lack of demand rather than
lack of supply. You can’t expect healthy economic recovery in
this environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  