-- Bombing Defendant Ghailani Bought Gas Tanks Before Blasts, Witness Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/bombing-defendant-ghailani-bought-gas-tanks-before-blasts-witness-says.html
Two Tanzanian welders identified
a defendant on trial for conspiring with al-Qaeda to bomb two
U.S. embassies in East Africa in 1998 as a former customer who
purchased metal gas tanks in the weeks before the blasts.  Ahmed Ghailani , 36, is accused of helping to buy a Nissan
truck used by members of an al-Qaeda cell to bomb the U.S.
embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, on Aug. 7, 1998. He is
charged with conspiracy for that attack and a near-simultaneous
bombing at the U.S. embassy in Nairobi, Kenya. The attacks
killed 224 people, including 12 U.S. citizens.  Felix John Lekule testified yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan that he used acetylene and oxygen tanks in his welding
business and that about a month before the embassy bombings, two
men approached him to buy tanks three separate times.
Prosecutors have said gas tanks were used in the attacks.  “One was tall and one was short,” Lekule said through a
Swahili interpreter. “The shorter one said he wanted gas tanks.
He said he wanted many, but I only had one pair.”  Lekule said the men asked that the welder take them to be
filled, one with acetylene and two with oxygen. Assistant U.S.
Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  told the jury that when the Federal
Bureau of Investigation showed Lekule photos in 1998, he
identified Ghailani as the shorter customer and  Fahid Mohammed Ally Msalam  as the taller man.  Drone Strike  Msalam, allegedly a member of the al-Qaeda cell that
carried out both attacks, was killed in a drone strike in
January 2009, the Wall Street Journal has reported. He was
indicted with Ghailani, charged with participating in a global
al-Qaeda conspiracy to kill U.S. nationals.  Ghailani, the first Guantanamo Bay detained to be tried in
a U.S. civilian court, has pleaded not guilty to the charges.
His lawyers told the jury in opening statements that their
client was “duped” by other, more worldly friends who fled
Africa after the attacks.  Lekule said the shorter man paid for the tanks, taking
money from a pouch around his waist. The men purchased about
seven tanks, he said.  On cross-examination by Ghailani’s lawyer, Peter Quijano,
Lekule said he didn’t tell the FBI in 1998 that it was the
taller of the two men who had the pouch and had paid for the
tanks.  Michael Smith, a forensic metallurgist with the FBI,
testified that he analyzed metal fragments found at the Tanzania
bomb scene and concluded that the fragments came from at least
19 different high-pressured tanks. One tank fragment still had a
metal label saying “acetylene” on it.  Second Welder  Flenan Abel Shayo, another Tanzanian welder, testified that
a man he knew as “Alim” and whom prosecutors said he
identified in October 1998 as Ghailani, came to him months
before the 1998 bombings, seeking to buy gas tanks.  “He said he wanted two pairs, which would be about four
tanks,” Shayo testified. “He told me that they got a job
cutting scraps,” in an area about three hours away from Dar es
Salaam, Shayo said.  Farbiarz asked Shayo what his reaction was.  “I asked if I could go with him because I didn’t have any
work,” Shayo said. He said Alim laughed at his request and told
him the job was far away and he couldn’t afford the trip.  Shayo said his friend, Lekule, provided three tanks filled
with either oxygen or acetylene. The next day, Alim returned and
bought more tanks from Lekule filled with oxygen and acetylene,
Shayo said. Shayo said Alim paid for the tanks each time with a
wad of cash he took from a pouch at his waist.  ‘Need Money’  “I said, ‘My brother, it seems like you’ve got a good job
to have that kind of money. Tell me where I can get that work
because I need money,’” Shayo testified that he told Alim.  Alim returned days later for a third time to purchase more
tanks, Shayo said, again paying Lekule with cash. Shayo said
Lekule paid him a commission for each of the three sales of the
tanks.  Shayo said Alim later picked up the tanks in a white Suzuki
Samurai driven by another man. Prosecutors said Shayo in 1998
identified Msalam as the driver. Witnesses have testified that
the vehicle was purchased by Msalam and another co-defendant,
Khalfan Khamis Mohammed, who was convicted in 2001 of
participating in the bombings.  Asked by Farbiarz how many other customers had asked to
purchase tanks from him during this period, Shayo answered, “It
might have been just one person in a year, and just maybe to
look for one tank to do work.”  ‘Continue to Live’  Shayo said that the welders were happy to sell the tanks.  “In those days there was a real hard time with work,” he
said. “We thought that if you continue to buy more tanks, we
could continue to live.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Nicholas Lewin told the jurors in
opening statements Oct. 13 that Ghailani and his accomplices
loaded about 20 acetylene- and oxygen-filled tanks, each 5 feet
(1.5 meters) tall and weighing about 150 pounds (68 kilograms),
into a truck.  The mix of the gases, along with TNT, was intended “to
increase the fire bomb, increase the shrapnel and to increase
the body count,” Lewin said.  Fled to Karachi  The U.S. says Ghailani, Msalam and two other co-
conspirators all left Nairobi for Karachi, Pakistan, on Aug.6,
1998, just before the attacks. Ghailani was captured in Pakistan
in July 2004 and held by the Central Intelligence Agency, where
he was subjected to “enhanced interrogation techniques,” the
U.S. has said.  He was taken to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in September 2006 and
transferred to federal court in New York last year, after the
Obama administration said it planned to close Guantanamo and try
some terrorism suspects held there in civilian courts.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York Federal Court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 