-- Bond Ratings Spur `Market Misbehavior' Unless Investors Pay: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-26T06:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/bond-ratings-spur-market-misbehavior-unless-investors-pay-china-credit.html
China’s bond-market  regulator  said a
new credit-rating agency it is establishing needs to be funded
by investors rather than issuers to avoid conflicts of interest
that erode confidence in existing assessments.  “The credibility of China’s credit-ratings agencies and
their authority is not high,”  Shi Wenchao , secretary-general of
the National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors, said yesterday at the launch of a committee to
address ratings reform. “The inadequate set-up of the industry
in China has imposed no effective external constraints, and has
caused some misbehavior in the market.”  China has five credit-rating firms and bond sellers have an
incentive to give their business to those that offer the highest
grades, an outcome that may not be in the best interest of
investors.  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. , Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings assigned top rankings to U.S. subprime-mortgage
bonds before that market collapsed in 2007, triggering a global
credit crisis that led to $1.8 trillion of losses at financial
companies worldwide.  NAFMII, which was set up by China’s central bank in 2007,
is spending 50 million yuan ($7.5 million) developing a new
ratings agency to help protect investors as private companies
sell more debt. China has the lowest yields of the world’s four
largest emerging-market economies. The local-currency corporate
bond market expanded 54 percent to $546 billion in the year to
June 30, the Asian Development Bank said this month.  Sliding Yields  The yield on 10-year notes issued by Chinese companies with
top AAA ratings has dropped 50 basis points, or 0.50 percentage
point, this year to 4.52 percent. Similar-maturity government
bonds  yield  3.64 percent, compared with 12.53 percent in Brazil,
8.15 percent in India and 7.70 percent in Russia.  The yield on China’s benchmark local currency 10-year bond
held at 3.64 percent yesterday, following a 21 basis-point jump
last week, when the central bank raised its benchmark interest
rates for the first time since 2007 to help prevent asset
bubbles. Similar-maturity bonds yield 8.17 percent in India, 7.7
percent in Russia and 12.53 percent in Brazil.  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards weakened 0.2
percent to 6.4576 per dollar as of 2:35 p.m. in Hong Kong,
reflecting bets for a gain of 3.2 percent from the onshore spot
rate of 6.6615.  Five-year  credit default swaps  on the nation’s debt
declined to 55 basis points yesterday, from 57 on Oct. 22,
according to data compiled by CMA and Bloomberg. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  More Bonds  Corporate bond sales in China doubled to 1.96 trillion yuan
last year as the government urged companies to reduce reliance
on bank loans, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
year’s tally has reached 1.58 trillion yuan, compared with a 7.5
trillion yuan ceiling the government set for new bank loans.  The increasing size of China’s corporate bond market and
its importance to the financial system has highlighted the need
for reliable ratings, said  Ba Shusong , deputy head of the
financial institute at the State Council’s Development Research
Center.  “The impact of the international ratings agencies on the
financial safety of capital  markets  has caused many policy
makers in China to pay attention,” Ba, who sits on NAFMII’s new
committee, said yesterday. “The most important thing to learn
from the U.S. is to strengthen the internal mechanisms of the
ratings companies and increase their transparency.”  Shop Around  Under the current system, issuers shop around for the best
grades and assessments don’t adequately reflect risk, Guan
Jianzhong, chairman of Beijing-based Dagong Global Credit Rating
Co., said in July. Guan has been appointed to the NAFMII
committee looking into ratings reform.  Two of the remaining four official ratings companies have
overseas partners; China Chengxin International Credit Rating Co.
is a venture with Moody’s and China Lianhe Credit Rating Co. is
affiliated with Fitch. The others are Shanghai Brilliance Credit
Rating & Investors Service Co. and Xinhua Far East China Ratings.
All four were unavailable for comment earlier today, while Zhang
Jun, Vice General Manager in the Planning Department of Dagong,
said his chairman’s views have already been aired.  ‘Deeply Disappointing’  Moody’s Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Raymond McDaniel  said
in June, in written testimony submitted to a U.S. Congressional
inquiry into the credit crisis, that his company’s ratings of
collateralized debt obligations and residential mortgage
securities in the past several years have been “deeply
disappointing.” Even so, the New York-based company is
reluctant for the industry’s revenue model to change.  “The issuer-pay model is well understood and accepted by
investors and other market participants,” said  Michael Adler , a
Moody’s spokesman in New York. “It has the added benefit of
making ratings publicly available. Moody’s is keenly focused on
making sure our analytical opinions and processes are of the
highest caliber in every respect.”  Daniel Noonan , a spokesman for Fitch in New York, said
potential conflicts in the “issuer pays” model are “far fewer
and more transparent than those associated with alternative
models.”  David Wargin , an S&P spokesman in New York, referred
to a report published by the firm in April 2009 that said “the
global credit market is large and diverse enough to accommodate
more than one business model” and “it is vital for investors
and issuers alike to have confidence in ratings and ratings
firms, and to have a range of options from which to select.”  Inadequate Ratings  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. , China’s No. 2 insurer, has
built up its own team of credit analysts since 2003 and relies
on its own rating system, Deputy Chief Investment Officer
 Timothy Chan  last week in Shanghai. Many fund-management
companies in China have had to do likewise “to compensate for
the inadequacy of ratings from domestic agencies,” said  William Hess , managing director at Beijing-based China Analytics Ltd., a
financial research firm.  “Even some of the Chinese ratings agencies that are
interested in the long-term development of their own businesses
have publicly made very critical comments about the state of the
ratings industry and the need to improve,” said Hess, who was
formerly director for Asia sovereign ratings at S&P.  Demand for corporate debt is building as regulators let
Chinese insurers buy more of the securities and overseas
financial institutions are given  greater access . Ping An is
boosting the proportion of its assets in the securities,
according to Chan, while Standard Chartered Plc and HSBC
Holdings Plc won approval this month to invest in China’s
interbank bond market.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year notes
issued by Chinese companies rated AAA instead of sovereign debt
shrank 50 basis points this year to 88, the biggest annual drop
in Chinabond data going back to 2006.  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors:  James Regan ,  Laura Zelenko .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  