-- Bovespa Stock Index Climbs Most in Six Weeks on Petrobras, Bank Lending
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-10-26T20:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/bovespa-stock-index-futures-fall-on-commodity-price-decline-real-slips.html
The  Bovespa  stock index gained the
most in six weeks as  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  surged after oil
prices pared a decline and an expansion in bank lending
bolstered economic growth prospects.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company that fell 30 percent this year, gained on speculation
the selloff was overdone.  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes  and  Rossi Residencial SA  led a gain for
homebuilders after mortgage lending fueled 19.4 percent bank
loan growth in September from a year ago. The Bovespa’s gain was
limited as steelmakers tumbled after ArcelorMittal, the world’s
biggest producer, forecast a fourth-quarter profit decline
because of falling steel prices and rising costs.  “Credit is expanding nicely,” said  Felipe Casotti , who
helps manage the equivalent of $582 million in assets at Maxima
Asset Management in Rio de Janeiro. “There are some stocks,
like Petrobras, that have suffered so much that they have to
find a bottom at some point. The Arcelor news hit the steel
sector hard.”  The Bovespa index gained 1.7 percent to 70,740.39, the
biggest increase since Sept. 13. The gauge advanced yesterday,
rebounding from its first weekly decline since August, as
investors speculated the Federal Reserve may announce further
measures to bolster the economic recovery. The  BM&FBovespa Small
Cap index  gained 1.2 percent to 1,415.40. The real fell 0.5
percent to 1.7036 per dollar today.  Outstanding Credit  Brazil’s outstanding credit increased 1.8 percent from the
previous month to a record 1.61 trillion reais ($945.1 billion)
in September, led by an increase in mortgage lending, the
central bank said in a statement distributed today in Brasilia.
Fueled by record credit expansion, domestic demand is driving
Brazil’s fastest growth in more than two decades this year.  PDG gained 3.1 percent to 21.35 reais. Rossi gained 3.5
percent to 16.79 reais. Petrobras rose 5.2 percent to 25.85
reais.  “Economic activity remains robust,”  Emy Shayo Cherman , an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note to clients
dated yesterday.  ArcelorMittal forecast fourth-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $1.5 billion
to $1.9 billion, missing the $2.44 billion average estimate of
12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Steelmakers faced a surge in
raw-material costs in the third quarter, even as steel prices
declined and demand weakened as countries ended economic
incentives to buy new cars and Chinese consumption slowed.  Usiminas dropped 0.4 percent to 20.06 reais. It’s scheduled
to report earnings before the market opens on Oct. 28, according
to Bloomberg data. CSN, the third-biggest, dropped 1.6 percent
to 27.83 reais and is scheduled to report earnings on Oct. 28,
according to Bloomberg data.  “The steel recovery has been postponed yet again,” said
 Christian Georges , an analyst at Olivetree Securities Ltd.
“Prices are still weakening, volume is poor and ArcelorMittal
suggests production levels are, at best, unchanged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  