-- Saskatchewan’s Boyd Isn’t Aware of Rival Potash Bids
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-26T21:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/boyd-says-canada-on-track-for-nov-3-potash-decision.html
The Saskatchewan government isn’t
aware of any potential bids for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc.  other than  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile offer,
said  Bill Boyd , the Canadian province’s minister of energy and
resources.  Saskatchewan also doesn’t see the need to hold further
talks with Melbourne-based BHP, Boyd said today in a telephone
interview in Ottawa.  Boyd, who is in the Canadian capital to press the federal
government to block BHP’s offer for Potash Corp., said
Saskatchewan isn’t seeking an extension of the federal review of
the BHP takeover bid and that Canada is “on track” to make a
decision by Nov. 3.  “It looks like the government is prepared to make a
decision on this by the self-imposed deadline,” Boyd said in the
interview.  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the federal government has
the power to block any transaction valued at C$299 million ($292
million) or more if it finds the deal doesn’t provide a “net
benefit” to the country, based on factors such as economic
activity, employment and productivity.  Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall said last week he is
recommending the Canadian federal government reject BHP’s bid
because it wouldn’t provide a net benefit for the country or his
province.  $130-a-Share Offer  Potash Corp., based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, has
rejected BHP’s $130-a-share offer as too low and said it was
seeking alternatives amid rising prices for agricultural
commodities.  BHP, the world’s largest mining company, has  said  it would
make Saskatchewan home to its head office for potash operations,
continue developing its Jansen potash mining project in the
province, maintain current employment levels and propose a
Canadian nominee for election to its board.  Potash Corp.  rose  $1.85, or 1.3 percent, to $145.55 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, 12 percent
more than BHP’s per-share offer.  BHP  fell 56 pence, or 2.5
percent, to 2,196.5 pence in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 