-- BP Says Too Early to Know If Rhum Gas Field Will Shut on Sanctions
-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 2010-10-26T16:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/bp-says-too-early-to-know-if-north-sea-rhum-gas-field-will-shut.html
BP Plc  said it’s too early to know
whether its North Sea Rhum natural-gas field venture with
Iranian Oil Co. U.K. Ltd. will shut because of planned European
Union sanctions against the Middle Eastern nation.  “It’s premature to say Rhum will have to be shut in,”
Matt Taylor, an Aberdeen, Scotland-based company spokesman, said
by telephone. “We’ll be studying the details carefully to make
sure we are in compliance with the new EU regulations.”  The regulations will be published by the EU tomorrow and
come into force immediately. EU governments joined the U.S. in
July in imposing curbs on Iran’s energy industries, banks and
shipping companies, seeking to force the clerical regime to halt
uranium enrichment and stop any pursuit of a nuclear weapons
capability.  Day-ahead gas pared losses to trade 0.5 pence lower at 48.4
pence a therm as of 5:05 p.m. in London. That’s equal to $7.68 a
million British thermal units. A therm is 100,000 Btus. The
contract earlier fell as much as 1.8 percent to 48 pence a
therm. Gas for the first quarter of next year climbed 0.35 pence
to 50.9 pence a therm.  Declining Output  While the project won’t be banned outright, the EU’s
prohibitions on technology transfer and new investment in
ventures with Iran may have an impact, the European Commission
said.  “This is an intended effect of the legislation, and it
shows that the U.K. authorities are ready to take the difficult
decisions that are necessary to make the sanctions effective,”
the commission said in a statement.  Iranian Oil  wasn’t
immediately able to comment.  U.K. North Sea gas production is declining at a rate of
about 10 percent a year, data from the Department of Energy and
Climate Change show. Britain, Europe’s biggest gas user, is
increasingly turning to tanker-borne imports of liquefied gas to
meet demand.  Rhum , in production since 2005, pumps as much as 6 million
cubic meters of gas a day, along with some liquids, Taylor said.
The field is “an important source of gas and tax revenue for
the U.K.,” he said. BP and Iranian Oil each hold 50 percent of
the asset.  Gas from the field passes through the Bruce platform, about
30 miles (48 kilometers) away, and is transported via Total SA’s
Frigg pipeline on to the  St. Fergus  terminal in Northern
Scotland. Output from Bruce wouldn’t be affected by the closure
of Rhum.  BP won an exemption from the planned sanctions for its Shah
Deniz gas field in the Caspian Sea, offshore Azerbaijan, a
person familiar with the decision who declined to be named said
on Oct. 22.  Iran holds a stake in Shah Deniz, a possible source of gas
for the Nabucco pipeline, an EU-backed project designed to
reduce the bloc’s reliance on natural gas from Russia. Norway’s
Statoil ASA and Paris-based Total SA are also involved in the
project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net 
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  