-- Brazilian Presidential Hopefuls Clash Over Corruption, Petrobras in Debate
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2010-10-26T03:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/brazilian-presidential-hopefuls-clash-over-corruption-petrobras-in-debate.html
Brazilian presidential candidates
 Dilma Rousseff  and  Jose Serra  accused each other of tolerating
corruption in their second-to-last television debate before this
weekend’s runoff election.  Serra, in the debate yesterday hosted by Record TV network,
attacked President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s  former cabinet
chief for surrounding herself with allies in her Workers’ Party
tainted by charges of corruption.  These include Erenice Guerra, who succeeded Rousseff in
Lula’s cabinet. Guerra gave testimony yesterday to police
investigating a kickbacks scandal involving her sons’ alleged
work negotiating contracts for companies doing business with the
government. Guerra resigned her post Sept. 16.  “She had as her right hand as cabinet chief and in the
mining and energy ministry someone who is facing charges for
mounting a far-reaching corruption scheme,” said Serra, who
finished 14 percentage points behind Rousseff in the first round
of voting Oct. 3.  Rousseff, 62, said she supports a police investigation into
Guerra’s actions and accused a former executive of Sao Paulo
state´s highway authority, known as Dersa, of stealing campaign
donations. Serra is the former governor of Sao Paulo.  Rousseff’s lead over Serra ahead of the Oct. 31 vote
widened to 10 percentage points from 6 percentage points in a
Datafolha survey published Oct 22. Rousseff’s total votes rose
to 50 percent from 47 percent in an Oct. 14-15 poll, according
to Datafolha. Serra’s total votes fell to 40 percent from 41
percent in the previous survey. The poll of 4,037 people has a
margin of error of two points.  Petrobras  Rousseff said that Serra, if elected, would privatize
Petroleo Brasileiro SA and abandon its plan to develop the
biggest oil discovery in the Americas in three decades.  ”Before we used to eat beef jerky and now he wants to hand
over the country´s filet mignon,´´ said Rousseff, who served as
chairwoman of the state-controlled oil company.  Serra said that Lula´s government favored foreign companies
over Brazilian ones in the awarding of oil contracts. If
elected, he said he would strengthen the company and eliminate
political influence in its management which he said grew out of
control under Lula.  ”She´s foaming at the mouth, inventing myths, with the
only aim of deceiving voters,´´ said the 68-year-old Serra.  Rousseff, a former member of the Marxist underground that
battled Brazil´s 1964-1985 military dictatorship, has pledged
continuity with her mentor’s policies that helped lift 21
million out of poverty since 2003 and created more than 14
million jobs. Latin America’s biggest economy will grow 7.3
percent this year, according to central bank estimates.  To sustain the fast pace of economic growth, Rousseff said
last night she would cut taxes for companies that increase
investment and expand payrolls.  Interest Rates  Serra has vowed to maintain Lula’s social programs while
moving faster to reduce the world’s second-highest real interest
rate and the highest tax burden in the developing world.  In last night´s debate, he said the ”planet´s highest
interest rates´´ and overvalued currency are among the
”critical´´ problems facing Brazil and the reason why its
manufacturers are losing ground to foreign competitors.  Rousseff said that her policies ”aren´t focused on the GDP
number or interest rates but on people.´´  Both candidates have vowed to reduce Brazil’s  debt levels 
as a percent of gross domestic product though have said little
about how they intend to rein in public spending that rose 18.2
percent in July from the same month a year ago, more than twice
the 8.8 percent rate of economic growth in the second quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  