-- Break-Bone Fever Draws Roche Drug as Dengue Virus Hits Riviera
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2010-10-26T17:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/break-bone-fever-draws-roche-drug-as-dengue-virus-hits-riviera.html
Roche Holding AG , which became
Europe’s largest drugmaker selling cancer medicines, is working
on the first weapon to fight the most common  mosquito-borne
virus .  Roche began tests on a drug initially developed for
hepatitis C in July to see if it works on dengue fever, which
was carried from the tropics to the French Riviera this year for
the first time. Roche expects to know within months if the pill,
balapiravir, may give it a head start in the hunt for a
treatment for dengue, nicknamed “break-bone fever” because of
the debilitating joint ache it causes.  Roche’s Swiss rival  Novartis AG  has spent more than S$70
million ($54 million) over seven years looking for a dengue
medicine. The search is intensifying as infected travelers from
Asia, Africa and the Americas bring the virus to New York City,
Japan and Europe. Dengue, which can cause fatal bleeding,
infected two people in  Nice  two months ago, Europe’s first local
cases in 82 years.  “Dengue is such a huge, unmet medical need,” said Nancy
Shulman, an infectious diseases doctor and researcher with Roche
in South San Francisco, California. “Even reducing any kind of
morbidity and mortality would be potentially a very good
thing.”  The disease infects 50 million people annually through the
bite of a mosquito carrying one of four types of dengue virus,
the World Health Organization estimates. About 2.5 billion
people, or more than a third of the global population, live in
dengue-prone areas, mostly in impoverished tropical and sub-
tropical areas, the Geneva-based agency says.  A bigger-than-usual outbreak in New Delhi last month
prompted the U.K. and Canada to warn athletes attending the
Commonwealth Games to wear protective clothing and use mosquito
repellents.  Rash and Body Aches  “It’s one of the few infectious diseases at the moment
globally that is dramatically increasing in numbers,” said
 Jeremy Farrar , director of the  Oxford University Clinical
Research Unit  in Vietnam, and one of the doctors involved in the
Roche trial.  Annual dengue-related productivity losses and health-care
costs total as much as $1.8 billion, researchers said in a  study 
in the American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene last
year. About 1 percent of patients with the fever, rash and body
aches symptomatic of dengue develop hemorrhagic complications
that can lead to a potentially lethal loss of blood pressure.  Doctors began testing balapiravir on patients at Ho Chi
Minh City’s  Hospital for Tropical Diseases  in late July. Twenty
men were randomly selected to receive 1,500 milligrams of the
drug or a placebo twice daily for five days.  ‘Very Exciting’  Balapiravir works by inhibiting an enzyme called
polymerase, which dengue uses to replicate inside human cells.
So far, it’s been well tolerated, enabling doctors to plan to
try a 3,000 milligram-strength tablet on 20 more patients,
Shulman said.  Temperature checks and tests to measure the amount of
virus in the blood will be used to gauge whether the medicine is
helping patients clear their infection sooner than the week it
typically takes the body’s immune system.  “If we recruit at the same rate, maybe by the end of the
year or the beginning of next year, we should have some idea if
it has any kind of an impact,” Shulman said. “If it does show
at least some viral load reduction, I think it would be very
exciting.”  Novartis Setback  As many as 100 patients may potentially be recruited for
the study, sponsored by Basel, Switzerland-based Roche, Farrar
said. It’s the first of three stages of clinical trials that
regulators usually require to approve a new medicine. Doctors
will also look to see whether by using an antiviral to fight the
infection, patients can avoid bleeding complications linked to
an exaggerated immune response, he said.  Novartis , also based in Basel, abandoned research on its
most promising dengue drug candidate because of safety concerns.
Roche is investigating whether the antiviral drug its scientists
discovered in 1998 may give it a head start.  Dengue and hepatitis C are both from the same family of
viruses that also includes yellow fever and West Nile. Roche
stopped studying balapiravir for hepatitis C in 2008 after it
lowered a type of  white blood cell  and impaired the vision of
some patients taking it in combination with other drugs for more
than 12 weeks.  More Travel, More Dengue  No significant toxicity was detected among the hundreds of
hepatitis C patients who took a 28-day course of balapiravir,
Shulman said.  “There are a lot of drugs out there that have been
developed for other things like hepatitis C and they have been
tested in a lot of people,” says  Duane J. Gubler , director of
the emerging infectious diseases program at Singapore’s Duke-NUS
Graduate School of Medicine, who has studied mosquito-borne
viruses for 40 years. “It makes just a lot sense to test them
for things like dengue.”  Gubler, who wrote the main medical text on dengue in 1997,
says the disease is a growing public health threat because of
international travel and the worldwide resurgence of the  Aedes
mosquito  species that transmits the virus. Researchers reported
this month cases in  Japan  linked to travel in Africa. Dengue has
been also detected in more than 1,000 travelers in Europe since
1999 and sparked France’s first outbreak in September. At least
two dozen people have acquired the infection in  Florida  in 2010.  ‘Poor Kid on the Block’  “What we’re seeing is really the result of global trends
in demographics, modern transportation and globalization,”
Gubler says. “All of this is increasing the pressure to develop
vaccines, antivirals and therapeutic antibodies.”  Sanofi-Aventis SA , based in Paris, is undertaking late-
stage studies on its vaccine, which it aims to bring to the
market in 2015 or 2016. Novartis has about 40 people at its
 Institute for Tropical Diseases  in Singapore searching for new
compounds to treat dengue patients.  “We desperately need it,” Gubler says. “Dengue is still
sort of a poor kid on the block when you compare it to some of
the other diseases that get the big bucks, like HIV, malaria,
influenza and West Nile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Gale  in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 