-- Brokers Flee Brokerages as Asset Drop Shows Broken Model
-- B y   S e t h   L u b o v e
-- 2010-10-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/brokers-flee-brokerages-as-declining-assets-show-broken-model.html
After  Morgan Stanley  took control of  Smith Barney  in May 2009 from  Citigroup Inc ., David Hopkins grew
disillusioned with his new bosses.  Hopkins, 50, says he had built a roster of about 150
clients with $38 million in assets in nine years as a stock
broker at Smith Barney in Southern  California . After the
acquisition, the New York-based bank imposed new maintenance
fees on Smith Barney accounts and stripped away some of the
autonomy of its brokers -- moves that Hopkins says were hurting
his relationships with investors.  In March, Hopkins got a call from a headhunter who urged
him to join a small advisory firm that works with  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp ., a discount brokerage. Although it meant Hopkins
would have to return a retention bonus from Morgan Stanley worth
a year’s earnings, he decided to depart for  Beacon Pointe
Advisors LLC  in  Newport Beach , California, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its December issue.  “Smith Barney had a very hands-off environment, like you
knew what was best for your clients,” Hopkins says. “With Morgan
Stanley, it just became an unfriendly place. Smith Barney is
dying a slow death. It’s all about Morgan Stanley.”  More than 7,300 brokers have left the four biggest full-
service brokerages -- Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, Merrill Lynch,
Wells Fargo Advisors and UBS Wealth Management Americas -- from
the beginning of 2009 through June, according to financial
services research firm  Aite Group LLC  in  Boston  and company
filings.  Losing Assets  Some brokers have fled internal clashes from mergers during
the financial crisis:  Bank of America Corp . rescued Merrill
Lynch four months before the Smith Barney deal. Others have been
recruited by discounters such as  Charles Schwab Corp . to join
their networks of independent firms.  The big banks, which count on their brokerages to generate
a steady stream of fees, are losing assets as well as brokers.
Assets under management at the four top brokerages dropped 16
percent to $4.75 trillion from 2007 through 2009, Aite Group
says. During the same period, assets jumped almost 14 percent to
$1.54 trillion at independent firms.  “It’s hurting the big brokerages,” says Alois Pirker, an
Aite Group research director. “They have lost assets, advisers
and clients.”  Morgan Stanley says the loss of brokers and assets has been
inconsequential. Spokesman  Jim Wiggins  says the bank is sorry to
see employees depart who are frustrated by a lack of success at
Morgan Stanley, which doesn’t compete on price for clients with
low-cost brokerages.  No Conflicts  “Our business model is not for everyone,” he says. “We’re
geared to those advisers and clients who can best benefit from
the breadth and resources of a leading global investment bank.”  While lacking the clout of big brokerages, independent
firms boast of one advantage with clients: no conflicts of
interest. Brokers at Merrill Lynch, for instance, are pressured
to sell funds managed or approved by the firm because they pay a
higher commission than those run by other companies, says Paul De Rosa, who worked at the brokerage for 26 years before co-
founding his own firm,  Gateway Advisory LLC , in Westfield,  New
Jersey , in January.  De Rosa set up Gateway Advisory as a registered  investment
adviser , which has a fiduciary duty to put its clients’
financial interest first when giving advice, according to U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission rules. RIA firms must also
disclose conflicts. To avoid them, RIAs like Gateway typically
shun commissions and charge a flat fee of less than 1 percent of
assets under management regardless of the funds they recommend.  Discounter Recruiting  “Our clients know that when we make a recommendation, we’re
not getting compensated for that recommendation,” says De Rosa,
61, whose firm manages more than $250 million.  Lyle LaMothe, who oversees Merrill Lynch’s U.S. wealth
management unit, says brokers don’t push particular investments
that pay more than others. The firm leaves it to the customer to
decide whether to purchase a product sold on commission, or pay
a fee for investment advice.  “That we have both methods is testimony to the fact that we
are independent,” LaMothe says.  Charles Schwab and TD Ameritrade are capitalizing on the
flight of brokers. The discounters are providing independent
firms with a host of fee-based services, from recruiting
advisers to supplying clients and trading and custodial
assistance. Omaha, Nebraska-based TD Ameritrade announced in
July that its recruiters helped bring 212 advisers from big
brokerages to independent firms in the first seven months of
2010, a 44 percent increase over the same period a year earlier.  Most Profitable  Schwab’s unit that offers services to independent advisers
and other institutional businesses is the most profitable part
of the company. San Francisco-based Schwab has about 6,000
independent advisers in its network.  “There has been a bit of a pack mentality with advisers,”
says Bernie Clark, head of Schwab Advisor Services. “When people
started coming out and fostering growth in this industry, others
saw it was possible and followed them.”  Independent firms depend on their partnerships with Schwab
and TD Ameritrade to succeed. Dorie Rosenband says she quit
Smith Barney last year because she grew tired of its high-
pressure sales culture and preferred to use her training as a
certified financial planner to give advice. So she started a
 business  in New York and Baltimore in 2009.  Trudge to Bathroom  Schwab helped Rosenband, 37, find  office space  and legal
advisers and then hooked her up with  Raylor Investments LLC , a
Greenwich, Connecticut, consulting firm that screens investments
for her clients. In exchange, Rosenband pays Schwab a fee for
safekeeping her investors’ money, executing trades and other
transactions.  “You cannot underestimate the magnitude of setting up a new
business,” says Rosenband, whose firm oversees $50 million.
“You’re leaving a turnkey environment where you don’t even
realize what’s being done for you.”  Beacon Pointe, which manages $4 billion in assets, owes
much of its recent expansion to TD Ameritrade. Beacon Pointe’s
30 employees work in a ground-floor office decorated with
undistinguished paintings by anonymous artists. To get to a
bathroom, advisers have to either trudge down to the basement or
take an elevator to the fourth floor. Beacon Pointe and TD
Ameritrade formed an alliance in 2007: Beacon pays a fee for
client trades through TD Ameritrade, and the discount brokerage
funnels customers looking for advice to the small firm.  Returning Advisers  This year, the number of TD Ameritrade referrals is
soaring, comprising 25 percent of Beacon’s new clients through
October. And Beacon is planning on acquiring an independent
adviser with $120 million in assets in Scottsdale,  Arizona , a
first step in an expansion to get more business from TD
Ameritrade branches across the country, says Matthew Cooper,
Beacon’s managing director.  Hopkins, the Beacon Pointe adviser, works a region between
Orange County and  Santa Barbara , talking with TD Ameritrade
branch workers to find customers who need advice.  “They went to Ameritrade and thought they could do a self-
directed approach but don’t have the time or talent to do it,”
Hopkins says. “So Ameritrade recommends us.”  Some advisers return to the comforts of big brokerages
after struggling to survive on their own. James Stoker II left
Smith Barney in 2004 and co-founded  a firm  with six of his
brokerage colleagues. He wanted the freedom to place clients in
more-exotic investments such as  hedge funds . But Stoker had
little time to develop those strategies. Because his firm in
Austin,  Texas , could only afford an additional handful of people
for investment management and research, he spent most of his
time on day-to-day duties, such as flying to meet fund
executives and plowing through their documents.  Madoff Scrutiny  After the Bernard Madoff fraud scandal in 2008, investors
demanded that Stoker’s small staff increase the scrutiny of its
investments. During a meeting in early 2009, an institutional
client asked how Stoker could verify that outside auditors of
managers were doing their job.  “We couldn’t answer that question other than to say we
couldn’t do that,” Stoker says. “We were just too thin. We came
back from the meeting and said we have to re-affiliate with
Morgan Stanley.”  Stoker, 54, wound down his company in May and took six of
his people back to Smith Barney. Now, at the brokerage’s
Graystone Consulting unit, which advises institutional
investors, Stoker says he can tap into a small army of hundreds
of research analysts who handle much of the groundwork of
evaluating money managers.  Fiduciary Standard  “A lot of the big independents don’t have 200-some people
in research and sophisticated risk systems,” Stoker says.
“Independents can’t outspend Morgan Stanley in these markets.”  Major brokerages and independent firms are also tussling
over regulation. The SEC will send  a report  on protecting
investors to Congress in January before possibly issuing new
rules as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform act signed
into law in July.  Registered investment advisers are urging the SEC to adopt
the tough fiduciary standard under the  Investment Advisers Act
of 1940  that governs their profession. If advisers receive
additional payments for recommending a particular fund over
another, they must fully disclose the arrangement and obtain
informed consent from investors every time they sell such a
product, says  Falls Church , Virginia-based Knut Rostad, chairman
of the  Committee for the Fiduciary Standard , a group of
financial professionals. Advisers must also manage conflicts by,
for instance, crediting that additional payment to their
client’s account rather than accepting it themselves, Rostad
says.  Potential Payoff  The  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ,
a lobbying and trade group based in  New York , says the stringent
fiduciary rules of the 1940 act are unnecessary to safeguard
investors and would restrict their options. SIFMA does support
the idea of more disclosure.  “We believe in a robust disclosure regime where the client
can make the decision to consent to conflicts,” says Andrew DeSouza, a SIFMA spokesman.  No matter what the SEC does, for Hopkins, there’s no going
back to a big brokerage. He likes the potential payoff of being
an entrepreneur.  “I’m working 10 times as hard, but the opportunity is 100
times greater,” he says on his cell phone, slogging through  Los
Angeles  traffic -- hoping to find clients who value his
independence as much as he does.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Lubove in Los Angeles at 
 slubove@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill in New York at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  