-- Buffett Names Castle Point's Combs to Investment Post
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-26T12:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/buffett-names-castle-point-s-combs-to-berkshire-hathaway-investment-post.html
Warren Buffett  moved one step closer
to completing his succession plan, naming a Connecticut hedge
fund manager with insurance experience to run a “significant
portion” of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s investment  portfolio .  Todd Combs , 39, becomes an investment manager, Berkshire
said yesterday in a statement. Combs manages about $400 million
in financial-services shares at Castle Point Capital in
Greenwich, Connecticut, according to marketing materials sent to
investors. Buffett, the 80-year-old Berkshire chairman and chief
executive officer, is searching for candidates to take over his
duties when he steps away.  “He runs financial-services investments and obviously
 Berkshire  has a significant percentage of companies” in those
sectors, including insurance and banking, said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1 billion at YCMNet Advisors in
Walnut Creek, California. Still, “it’s somewhat of a surprise.
He’s certainly not one of the people that have been bandied
about in terms of taking over the role.”  Buffett has said his responsibilities will be split among
at least three people upon his death or retirement. A CEO will
oversee the more than 70 operating units assembled by Buffett,
and one or more investment heads will be appointed to manage
Berkshire’s portfolio. Buffett has said his son,  Howard Buffett ,
would be an effective non-executive chairman.  “For three years, Vice Chairman  Charlie Munger  and I have
been looking for someone of Todd’s caliber to handle a
significant portion of Berkshire’s investment portfolio,”
Buffett said in the statement. “We are delighted that Todd will
be joining us.”  Candidates  Hedge fund manager  Li Lu , who was reported by the Wall
Street Journal in July as a potential Berkshire hire, won’t join
the firm because he doesn’t want the job, Buffett told the
newspaper in an interview published today.  David Sokol , chairman
of Berkshire’s MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., is a possible
CEO candidate, Barron’s has reported. Berkshire Chief Financial
Officer  Marc Hamburg  didn’t return calls for comment.  “I could imagine a situation where you have a general
investment manager and then equal investment managers in charge
of certain portfolios,” Yoshikami said.  Buffett, who took control of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire in 1967, has said he’d look for youth in selecting an
investment chief. He launched a succession plan in 2006. The
search for a chief investment officer of the holding company has
taken longer.  ‘A Long Tenure’  “The directors believe it’s important that my successor
have the prospect of a long tenure,” Buffett wrote in his
annual letter to shareholders in 2007. “I intend to hire a
younger man or woman with the potential to manage a very large
portfolio.”  Combs oversaw $405 million at the end of September, with
his largest holdings including U.S. Bancorp, MasterCard Inc.,
Western Union Co. and  Chubb Corp. , according to the marketing
materials. In the 1990s, Combs spent three years as an analyst
at the Florida banking regulator and about four years as an
analyst for auto-insurer  Progressive Corp. , the documents show.  “I was surprised to learn that the fund doesn’t own
billion-dollar positions because that is what he will have to
do,” said  Jeff Matthews , author of “Pilgrimage to Warren
Buffett’s Omaha” and founder of hedge fund Ram Partners LP.  Berkshire amassed equity holdings of more than $50 billion
as of June 30, including  Wells Fargo & Co.  and American Express
Co. stakes, partly by investing premiums from insurance
operations. The fixed-income portfolio, valued at more than $30
billion, includes corporate debt and government securities.  Investment Approach  Combs’s “value-oriented” investment approach is focused
on both long and short investments in financial services, and
bets “will play out over several years,” according to the
marketing materials. The fund had declined about 4 percent this
year through September.  Castle Point’s fund gained 6.2 percent last year, fell 5.7
percent in 2008, rose 19 percent in 2007 and climbed 13.6
percent in 2006, according to the letter. Castle Point was
founded by Combs in 2005 with backing from  Stone Point Capital ,
the private-equity firm whose chairman is former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  executive  Stephen Friedman , who was chairman of the
board at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York before resigning
last year.  Buffett told Fortune magazine that he met Combs through
Munger. Combs won’t move to Omaha, and instead will continue to
work from Connecticut, Fortune reported on its website.  Combs was head of financial-services investments at Copper
Arch Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that closed in
2008. He received an undergraduate degree from Florida State
University and a master’s of business administration from
Columbia University, Buffett’s alma mater.  “He’s a young guy which is what Buffett wants,” Matthews
said. “And anytime Warren Buffett says you’re up to it, that’s
the Good Housekeeping Seal of approval.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  