-- Buffett-Backed BYD's Profit Plunges More Than 99% as Sales Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-26T08:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/buffett-backed-byd-s-third-quarter-profit-drops-as-sales-in-china-falter.html
BYD Co. , the Chinese carmaker backed
by  Warren Buffett , fell the most in almost two years in Hong
Kong trading after third-quarter profit dropped 99 percent amid
faltering sales.  The shares declined 10 percent to close at HK$51.05, the
biggest drop since November 2008, after BYD posted net income of
11.34 million yuan ($1.7 million) for the three months ended
Sept. 30. It was the second-biggest decline among 982 stocks in
the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index .  “Profit was pretty disappointing and well below our
estimations,” said Galant Ng, an analyst at Taifook Securities
Group Co. in Hong Kong. BYD suffered from declining car sales
and higher costs, Ng said in an interview today.  The plunge in profit adds to setbacks for Shenzhen-based
BYD, which has delayed plans to export electric vehicles to the
U.S. and was ordered to surrender seven facilities earlier this
month after China’s government said it built them illegally. The
company, the fastest-growing automaker in China last year, cut
its 2010 vehicle sales target 25 percent in August as it
struggled to maintain momentum amid higher taxes on small cars.  The third-quarter profit figure was calculated by Bloomberg
News by subtracting six-month earnings from nine-month results
announced by the company today in a statement to the Hong Kong
stock exchange. Third-quarter sales rose 0.3 percent from a year
earlier to 10.3 billion yuan, based on the statement.  Vehicle Sales  Vehicle sales at BYD, 10 percent  owned  by Buffett’s Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway Inc., slumped 25 percent in
September to 33,085 vehicles even as rivals SAIC Motor Corp. and
Dongfeng Motor Group Co. increased deliveries and China’s
industrywide passenger-car sales to dealerships rose 19 percent.
BYD’s deliveries dropped 19 percent in August.  “Most local brands suffered from the government policy tax
revision,” Ricon Xia, a Hong Kong-based senior analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management, said. BYD’s fourth quarter also
“won’t be very strong,” he said.  The carmaker, founded by Chairman  Wang Chuanfu , has said it
may fail to meet a schedule for shipping electric cars to
California. BYD may introduce its E6 electric cars in the U.S.
next year, Henry Li, general manager of the company’s export
division, said last month, delaying an earlier plan to begin
deliveries this year.  Buffett’s Support  Berkshire Hathaway’s chairman Buffett affirmed his support
for BYD last month when he visited the automaker in Shenzhen,
saying it will be a leader in electric cars. Berkshire owns its
stake through Des Moines, Iowa-based MidAmerican Energy Holdings
Co.  China’s vehicle sales may rise 25 percent to 17 million
this year, Xinhua News Agency reported on Oct. 11, citing the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  The carmaker, which also makes batteries and assembles
mobile phones, plans to  list  on the Shenzhen stock exchange.
BYD, whose F3 car is still the best-selling passenger car in
China this year, is also expanding its alternative-energy
business to jumpstart earnings.  For the nine months through Sept. 30, BYD said profit rose
4 percent to 2.43 billion yuan from 2.34 billion yuan a year
earlier. Sales increased 31 percent to 34.5 billion yuan, the
company said.  -- Liza Lin . Editors:  Ian Rowley , Hwee Ann Tan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7010 or
 Llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  