-- Shuffle Master Call Options Trading Surges to Highest Level in Three Years
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-10-26T20:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/bullish-shuffle-master-option-trades-hit-three-year-high-on-buyout-outlook.html
Bullish  Shuffle Master Inc.  options
trading surged to a three-year high as investors boosted bets
that the company identified by Credit Suisse Group AG in April
as a leveraged buyout candidate will keep rallying next month.  Almost 11,000 calls to buy the stock changed hands, 166
times the four-week average and 180 times the number of puts to
sell, as of 4 p.m. in New York. The maker of casino roulette-
chip sorters and card shufflers rallied 4.2 percent to $9.26 and
is up 22 percent from a two-month low in September. About two-
thirds of  today’s volume  was concentrated in November $10 calls,
which more than tripled to 33 cents.  “The trading looks like speculation on an abrupt upside
move past the annual high by mid-November,” said  Ophir Gottlieb , head of client services at Livevol Inc., a San
Francisco-based provider of options market analytics. “This
order flow looks like takeover speculation. It’s near-term
upside call volume, sort of a fevered rush.”  Credit Suisse analyst  Pankaj N. Patel  wrote in an April 28
report that Shuffle Master was among 30 companies selected for
its portfolio of most likely buyout candidates within the
Russell 2000 index, excluding financial institutions. A
leveraged buyout is a takeover in which the buyer borrows money
to buy a controlling interest in a company.  Julia Boguslawski , a spokeswoman for the Las Vegas-based
company, didn’t immediately return a call. The Las Vegas-based
company hasn’t closed above $10 since  February 2008 . Next
month’s options expire Nov. 19.  Implied volatility , the key gauge of option prices, for at-
the-money options expiring in 30 days, soared by almost half to
59.12 from 40.73 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 