-- Buy Corinthian Colleges Options Before U.S. Election, UBS's Revsine Says
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-26T20:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/buy-corinthian-colleges-options-ahead-of-u-s-midterm-elections-ubs-says.html
Investors should buy bullish
 Corinthian Colleges Inc.  options because the for-profit
education company may rally if Republicans gain control of the
U.S. Senate in the midterm elections, UBS AG said.  Equity derivatives strategist  Mitchell Revsine  and stock
analyst  Ariel Sokol  recommended November $6 and November $5
calls as “the most conservative, lowest capital way to
potentially capitalize” on Corinthian Colleges benefiting from
a regulatory stalemate if Republicans win a Senate majority in
the congressional elections on Nov. 2. The November $6 calls
were unchanged at 15 cents as of 4 p.m., November $5 calls
gained 29 percent to 45 cents and the shares rose 3.5 percent to
$4.98.  “Corinthian Colleges’ valuation reflects a low probability
that the company can survive the current round of regulatory
reform,” Revsine and Sokol wrote yesterday in a note to
investors. “A Republican victory in the Senate could increase
the survival probability, as the Obama administration might opt
to compromise on postsecondary reform in exchange for bill
passage in other areas.”  The chances that President  Barack Obama ’s Democratic party
will retain control of the U.S. Senate have fallen to 56.5
percent from 63.8 percent on Oct. 5 and 71.2 percent on Sept.
15, according to bets placed on Intrade, a Dublin-based
prediction market. Republicans are 90 percent likely to take
over the U.S. House, Intrade pricing shows.  Senate Hearings  For-profit colleges are under pressure because of proposed
regulations from the U.S. Department of Education that would
crack down on sales practices. The Senate has held hearings on
whether the schools, which got $26.5 billion in U.S. government
aid last year, misled students on employment prospects after
graduation. The changes could result in the withdrawal of some
federal funding, which comprises nearly 90 percent of revenue at
some companies.  While the proposed regulatory overhaul “could put the
company out of business,” according to Revsine and Sokol, a
Republican majority in Congress “increases the probability of
more balanced regulatory reform which could then in turn enable
the company can survive in some form.”  Corinthian Colleges shares have fallen 64 percent this
year. The stock, which is rated  “neutral”  with a $7, 12-month
share-price forecast by Sokol, reports first quarter earnings on
Nov. 2. Analysts on average expect the Santa Ana, California-
based company to show profit excluding some items of 39 cents a
share, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Apollo Group  On Oct. 13,  Apollo Group Inc. , the biggest for-profit
education company, withdrew its forecast for the year ending
next Aug. 31, citing regulatory scrutiny and a possible 40
percent decline in new students. An index of education stocks
plunged 18 percent the day after Apollo’s decision.  Capella Education Co ., the Minneapolis-based provider of
more than 1,000 online college courses, fell 19 percent to
$54.80 after saying today that enrollment growth would slow as
it toughens admissions standards.  The proportion of  Corinthian  stocks sold short is 25
percent of outstanding shares as of Oct. 22, up from 17 percent
a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Data
Explorers, a London- and New York-based research firm that
tracks short sales. Short sellers profit from the decline in
share prices by selling borrowed securities and later replacing
it with shares bought at lower levels.  A Challenge  “The short thesis in our view centers on the belief that
the proposed gainful employment rules become the final rules,”
Revsine and Sokol wrote. “Republican control of the Senate
could be perceived as a challenge to this thesis.”  The proposed gainful employment rule may restrict or
disqualify for-profit schools from participating in government-
aid programs when fewer than 45 percent of their graduates are
repaying principal on their loans. Government data show
Corinthian’s rate is about 24 percent, according to  Jarrel Price , an analyst at Height Analytics LLC in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 