-- World Series at Risk for Cablevision as FCC May Not Help in Spat
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-10-26T14:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/cablevision-risks-losing-baseball-world-series-as-fcc-may-not-end-fox-spat.html
Cablevision Systems Corp.  may lose
its bid for government help in a dispute that threatens 3
million subscribers’ access to World Series baseball games on
 News Corp. ’s Fox network.  While the Federal Communications Commission asked for the
companies to explain what they’re doing to end the spat that’s
disrupted viewing in the Philadelphia and New York markets since
Oct. 16., it may lack the powers to do anything to resolve it,
said  Rebecca Arbogast , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “There’s a real limit to what the FCC can do,”
Washington-based Arbogast said in an interview. “It would be
extraordinary for them to order Fox to put programming back
on.”  News Corp., run by billionaire  Rupert Murdoch , cut its Fox
signal to Cablevision after the sides failed to agree on how
much the cable company should pay for programming. Bethpage, New
York-based Cablevision has called for arbitration to resolve the
dispute, something News Corp. has refused.  The FCC would need to find a lack of so-called good faith
in the talks before acting, and even then the law probably
doesn’t let it order arbitration, Arbogast said.  Examples of a “good faith violation,” as defined in the
1992 Cable Act, include one party refusing to put forth more
than a single, unilateral proposal to the other party, a company
trying to “unreasonably delay” negotiations, and failing to
respond to a proposal, among others.  “It’s going to be tough to find a lack of good faith in
negotiating,” Arbogast said. “What they’re fighting over is
the money.”  ‘Fair Compensation’  FCC spokeswoman  Jen Howard  declined to comment. Finding
fault in the negotiations may be elusive, FCC commissioner
 Michael Copps  said in a statement on Oct. 20.  On Oct. 22, the FCC’s media bureau said in a letter to the
companies the agency is “deeply concerned” over the dispute
and asked for information about the talks.  Cablevision says Fox is asking for $150 million a year in
fees, more than it pays for ABC, CBS, NBC and the Spanish-
language Univision combined.  News Corp.  said the $150 million
figure isn’t accurate and that it’s seeking “fair
compensation.”  By demanding a single “take it or leave it rate” for Fox,
News Corp. hasn’t negotiated in good faith, Cablevision said in
a response to the FCC’s request. Cablevision said it made four
new proposals to News Corp. from Oct. 15 to Oct. 17, which were
rejected. The cable company also urged the FCC to order the
companies to accept arbitration.  Fox countered, saying it has negotiated in good faith and
never made any “take it or leave it” demands. Cablevision’s
statement is “yet another example of their ploy to secure an
advantage through government intervention,” Fox said.  No Help From Congress  Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York, agrees
that the FCC may not have the power to demand arbitration or
mediation, or fine anyone who’s not negotiating fairly.  “The FCC is simply supposed to ensure ‘good faith
negotiations,’ however Congress gave them no authority to take
action if so-called ‘good faith negotiations’ weren’t
occurring,” Greenfield said in an Oct. 21 note.  Cablevision  shouldn’t expect assistance from Congress
either, he said.  “With Congress currently out of session and a lame-duck
session set to resume later this year, we would not rely on
Congress to act any time soon to help Cablevision and the
broader multichannel industry,” Greenfield said.  Calling for Arbitration  Cablevision is deliberately playing tough with News Corp.
to draw in the government, said  Chris Marangi , an analyst at
Gabelli & Co. Fifty elected officials have sided with the cable
operator, calling for binding arbitration, according to
Cablevision. Fox has rebuffed arbitration, saying direct
negotiation is the only way to resolve the dispute.  A government intervention would benefit Cablevision, said
Marangi, who is based in Rye, New York. He said an arbitration
process would mean that News Corp. had to put its signal back on
Cablevision’s systems while the two parties negotiated,
essentially stripping News Corp. of the one trump card it has in
the talks: The ability to withhold its signal.  World Series  Getting the Fox broadcast signal back would let Cablevision
negotiate without having to worry about angering and losing
customers, said Marangi, who recommends buying Cablevision
shares and doesn’t own any. Additionally, if  News Corp.  was
found to be asking more for Fox than what the cable operator
pays for other broadcast networks, arbitrators would likely ask
the programmer to lower its price.  “If indeed Fox is asking for unreasonable fees, that would
be found out in arbitration,” Marangi said. “There’s no way
Fox could get away with charging more than all of the other
networks combined.”  Cablevision fell 19 cents to $26.24 at 10:07 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . News Corp., based in New
York, lost 10 cents to $14.15 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Whatever the government decides, the stakes are high for
both companies if the stalemate continues.  With the World Series coming up on Oct. 27, Cablevision
risks further alienating its viewers. The games between the
Texas Rangers and San Francisco Giants are to be televised on
Fox. News Corp. also faces a loss in advertising revenue if it
loses Cablevision viewers for the games.  News Corp. has more signal-carriage negotiations coming up.
Some Fox station contracts with  Dish Network Corp.  expire Oct.
31, potentially affecting more than 3 million of the satellite
company’s 14 million subscribers.  “I’m sure Dish is looking to see if Cablevision can get
the government to intervene for them,” said  Todd Mitchell , an
analyst at Kaufman Bros LP in New York. “But, Fox has said
they’re willing to go dark if they don’t get what they want.
With or without government intervention, Fox is most likely
going to take the same hard line with Dish.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  