-- Cairn Will Write Off $185 Million After Greenland Wells Fail to Find Oil
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-10-26T06:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/cairn-will-write-off-185-million-after-greenland-wells-fail-to-find-oil.html
Cairn Energy Plc , the explorer
selling its Indian operations to Vedanta Resources Plc, will
write off the $185 million cost of two wells drilled off
Greenland after they failed to make commercial discovery.  The T8-1 and T4-1 exploration wells have been plugged and
abandoned, Edinburgh-based Cairn said in a statement in London
today. The Alpha-1S1 well, where the company announced a
discovery of oil and gas last month, has been suspended to allow
possible re-entry as the summer drilling season ended Sept. 30.  Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Mike Watts  said Oct. 6 that
Cairn is prepared to invest $1.2 billion in Greenland to drill
10 to 12 wells over the next few years. The Danish island
territory may hold 50 billion barrels of crude and gas, the U.S.
Geological Survey estimates, and  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and Chevron
Corp. also own rights there.  “Exploration in Greenland is at a very early stage” and to
have found gas and oil already is “extremely encouraging,” Watts
said in a statement today. “Plans for the forward exploration
program in 2011 are already underway and will be announced in
the first quarter.”  Richard Rose  of Oriel Securities Ltd. in London maintained
his “hold” rating on the stock.  “Whilst the program failed to yield a commercial success,
the evidence of working hydrocarbon system generating both oil
and gas is positive, especially given the frontier nature of the
acreage,” Rose wrote in a note today.  Cairn this year sold its operations in India to Vedanta.  “The shares are underpinned assuming the Vedanta deal
completes,” Rose said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  