-- Cairn Falls Most in 19 Months After Writing Off Two Greenland Oil Wells
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-10-26T08:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/cairn-falls-most-in-19-months-after-writing-off-greenland-wells.html
Cairn Energy Plc  dropped the most in
19 months in London trading after announcing it will write off
$185 million in costs of two exploration wells drilled off
Greenland after they failed to make a commercial discovery.  The shares  tumbled as much 6.5 percent, the biggest drop
since March 11, 2009, and retreated 4.9 percent to 391.8 pence
at 8:51 a.m.  The T8-1 and T4-1 wells have been plugged and abandoned,
the Edinburgh, Scotland-based company said today in a statement.
The Alpha-1S1 exploration well has been suspended as the summer
drilling season ended Sep. 30. The well is still in the volcanic
section, with the Mesozoic not yet reached.  The explorer, which is selling its Indian operations to
Vedanta Resources Plc, is prepared to invest $1.2 billion in
Greenland to drill 10 to 12 wells over the next few years,
Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Mike Watts  said Oct. 6. The
Danish island territory may hold 50 billion barrels of crude and
gas, the U.S. Geological Survey estimates, and  Exxon Mobil Corp. 
and Chevron Corp. also own rights there.  “Exploration in Greenland is at a very early stage” and
to have found gas and oil already is “extremely encouraging,”
Watts said in a statement today. “Plans for the forward
exploration program in 2011 are already underway and will be
announced in the first quarter.”  The Alpha-1S1 well, where the company announced a discovery
of oil and gas last month, may be re-entered depending on the
results of “further evaluation,” the company said today.  “Whilst the program failed to yield a commercial success,
the evidence of a working hydrocarbon system generating both oil
and gas is positive, especially given the frontier nature of the
acreage,”  Richard Rose , a London-based analyst at Oriel
Securities Ltd., wrote in a note today.  “The shares are underpinned assuming the Vedanta deal
completes.”  Vedanta, controlled by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , agreed on
Aug. 16 to pay as much as $9.6 billion for up to 60 percent of
Cairn India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net 
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  