-- California Home-Loan Defaults Rise as Unemployment Lingers Close to Record
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-10-26T17:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/california-home-loan-defaults-rose-in-third-quarter-update1-.html
California home-mortgage defaults
climbed 19 percent in the third quarter from the previous three
months as the state’s unemployment rate lingered close to a
three-decade high, MDA DataQuick said.  Homeowners in the most-populous state received 83,261
default notices, up from 70,051 in the second quarter, the San
Diego-based research company said today in a statement. Defaults
fell 26 percent from a year earlier.  California’s  unemployment rate  was 12.4 percent in
September, the U.S. Labor Department said on Oct. 22. That’s
close to the 12.6 percent record reached in March, according to
agency, whose data goes back to 1976. The U.S. jobless rate held
at 9.6 percent.  Mortgage defaults were higher in California’s less-
expensive areas. Neighborhoods with median home prices of less
than $200,000 had 14.4 defaults for every 1,000 homes, compared
with 2.7 defaults per 1,000 in areas with prices of at least
$800,000, MDA DataQuick said.  Defaults reached a peak in California in the first quarter
of 2009, when 135,431 notices were filed, said the data
provider, a unit of Richmond, British Columbia-based  MacDonald,
Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.   The third-quarter data precedes the impact, if any, of
foreclosure suspensions by loan servicers such as  Bank of
America Corp. , Ally Financial Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
after allegations they used “robo-signers” to push through
repossessions without verifying documentation.  ‘Steady’ Processing  “Over the past year, with some minor ups and downs,
financial institutions and their servicers have been processing
a fairly steady number of defaults each quarter,” MDA DataQuick
President  John Walsh  said in the statement. “That probably has
more to do with their capacity to process defaults than with
higher or lower levels of incoming distress.”  Default notices, filed at county recorders’ offices, are
the first step in foreclosing on a home. A homeowner can halt a
foreclosure by catching up on payments, refinancing or selling
the property.  Countrywide Financial Corp., now owned by Bank of America,
originated the most California loans that went into default in
the quarter, MDA DataQuick said. It was followed by Bank of
America; World Savings, now part of  Wells Fargo & Co. ; Wells
Fargo; and Washington Mutual, acquired by JPMorgan in 2008.  Those lenders were the most active in 2006, according to
the data company. The median origination date for the third
quarter’s defaulted loans was August 2006.  MDA DataQuick compiles its surveys using county records and
supplies real-estate information to customers including public
agencies, lenders and title companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 