-- Cameron's Budget Gamble Pays Off as U.K. Economy Holds Firm
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-27T11:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/cameron-s-budget-gamble-pays-off-for-now-as-economy-eases-investor-qualms.html
British Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s once-in-a-generation budget gamble is paying off for
now as the economy’s unexpected strength eases investors’ qualms
over the risk of a renewed recession.  Gross domestic product grew 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, twice as fast as analysts forecast, the Office for
National Statistics said yesterday. Less than two hours later,
Standard & Poor’s said the prime minister’s spending cuts had
safeguarded Britain’s top credit rating, which it said is no
longer in danger of being downgraded.  Cameron’s government unveiled the biggest budget cuts since
World War II last week, eliminating 490,000 jobs in a bid to
wipe out a record budget deficit by 2015. His drive, conceived
in May to head off a Greek-style fiscal crisis, pushed the yield
on the U.K.’s two-year government bond to the lowest on record.  “He’s lucky at the moment, but there’s only a certain
amount of luck you get, and he’s having all of his early,” said
 Steven Fielding , director of the Centre for British Politics at
Nottingham University. “Can you really take out half a million
public-sector jobs without that having an effect on the economy?
There’s going to be a very hard slog over the next four years.”  The timing of the cuts by Cameron is more fortuitous than
those of  Margaret Thatcher . Her first chancellor of the
exchequer,  Geoffrey Howe , announced his austerity measures in
March 1981, when the U.K. was still mired in recession. By
contrast, Cameron’s economy has just posted the two strongest
consecutive quarters of growth since 2000.  ‘Sorting Out the Mess’  “It was this government’s changes that took the British
economy out of the danger zone and since the election we’ve seen
interest rates coming down in Britain,” Cameron told the House
of Commons in London today. “What we’re now seeing is
businesses across the world recognizing that this is a great
country to invest in because we’re sorting out the mess we were
left with.”  Cameron may not be able to rely on this good luck for long.
His finance minister,  George Osborne , is dependent on welfare
cuts to balance the budget, leaving some analysts to question
whether the squeeze will achieve its aims.  Osborne’s announcement last week shows spending cuts will
peak at 81 billion pounds ($128 billion) in 2015. The measures
include an extra 7 billion pounds of savings from the social-
security bill, which the government can’t completely control.  Poorest Hit  The  Institute for Fiscal Studies  said that the measures may
be inadequate to erase the structural deficit and further
spending reductions or tax increases may be needed. The London-
based research group also said that the poorest will be hit
harder than the better off, with the exception of the richest 2
percent.  “This is a reckless gamble,” the opposition Labour
Party’s finance spokesman,  Alan Johnson , told BBC television
yesterday.  U.K.  retail sales  dropped and claims for unemployment
benefits rose in September for a second month, suggesting
Britons are already feeling the squeeze. Consumer confidence
sank in September to the lowest in 18 months, according to
Nationwide Building Society.  “We’re more downbeat on the outlook for 2011,” said  Sarah Hewin , senior economist at Standard Chartered Bank in London.
“Our concern is the impact from government spending cuts will
be contractionary.”  ‘Strong Headwinds’  The International Monetary Fund cut its forecast for U.K.
growth next year to 2 percent from 2.1 percent last month and
said the Bank of England should be prepared to add stimulus to
the economy in case the recovery falters. The bank’s deputy
governor,  Paul Tucker , said two days ago the rebound “will be
bumpy and uneven” and “headwinds remain reasonably strong.”  There are also clouds on the political horizon for Cameron,
including unrest among his Liberal Democrat coalition partners.
The prime minister’s Conservative Party depends on the Liberal
Democrats for its majority in the House of Commons.  The Liberal Democrat deputy leader,  Simon Hughes , told
 Channel 4 television  Oct. 24 that many of his colleagues oppose
plans to reduce social-housing subsidies, a step that may force
people on low incomes to move to areas where rents are cheaper.  “My message to the government is: I don’t think you will
get parliamentary approval for your current plans,” Hughes
said.  ‘Out of Control’  Cameron told lawmakers today that the government would go
ahead with the proposals. “This is a budget completely out of
control,” he said.  A  Populus poll  for the London-based Times newspaper
published yesterday showed Labour ahead of the Conservatives for
the first time since November 2007. Labour was on 38 percent, up
a point from last month, to the Conservatives’ 37 percent, a
drop of two points. Populus questioned 1,000 adults for the poll
from Oct. 22 to Oct. 24. It gave no margin of error.  Yesterday’s reports “probably won’t change the course of
the political dialogue over the next few years,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at National Australia Bank in London and a
former Bank of England official. “The government is set for a
period of unpopularity.”  Labor unions are protesting. The Fire Brigades Union called
yesterday for a strike in London on Nov. 5 over plans to change
working conditions that it says will lead to job cuts. For
firefighters, it’s one of the busiest days of the year, when
bonfires are lit and fireworks set off to commemorate the
foiling of  a plot in 1605  by Catholics to blow up Parliament.  Elsewhere in Europe  Still, Britain has so far escaped the social upheaval
that’s plagued some other European nations.  In France, oil-refinery blockades and strikes against
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plan to raise the retirement age
left as many as a quarter of service stations dry.  “There’s a historical tradition of people taking to the
streets in France, whereas in the U.K., people do recognize
there’s a problem,” said  Wyn Grant , professor of politics at
Warwick University.  Greek workers revolted for months after the government
implemented austerity measures to prevent a debt default.
Ireland has had to cancel bond auctions for the rest of the year
after investor concern about the government’s banking bailout
pushed up borrowing costs.  By contrast, U.K. government bonds have rallied. The yield
on the two-year gilt fell to a record low of 0.557 percent on
Oct. 21.  Yesterday’s report showed services, which make up 76
percent of GDP, grew 0.6 percent on the quarter. Industrial
production rose 0.6 percent, driven by a 1 percent jump in
manufacturing. Construction increased 11 percent on the year,
the most since 1988.  “The government has to walk a tightrope,” said  Simon Hayes , an economist at Barclays Capital in London and a former
Bank of England official. Cameron will need to make sure he
“pushes on with plans that satisfy financial markets while
consumer and business confidence hold up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  