-- Canada Doesn't Need More Fiscal Stimulus Now, Former BOC's Freedman Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-26T17:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/canada-doesn-t-need-more-fiscal-stimulus-now-former-boc-s-freedman-says.html
Canada’s economy doesn’t currently
need a second round of government spending or tax cuts to
bolster its recovery, said  Charles Freedman , a former central
bank deputy governor and co-author of a recent International
Monetary Fund paper on fiscal policy.  “Not at the moment,” Freedman, 69, said in an interview
today in Bloomberg’s Ottawa office when asked about the need for
new government stimulus. “The question is at what pace to bring
down the deficit.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said Oct. 12 that Canada will
eliminate last year’s record C$55.6 billion ($54.3 billion)
deficit by 2015, the first Group of Seven country to do so, and
reiterated he will end stimulus spending in March. Opposition
groups, including the New Democratic Party and the Bloc
Quebecois, have said the government should extend the deadline
for public works spending and extended jobless benefits.  The Bank of Canada last week cut its economic growth
forecast for the next five quarters, and said the recovery will
depend less on government and consumer spending and more on
business investment and exports. The bank kept its key lending
rate at 1 percent after three earlier increases.  Freedman co-wrote a  chapter  of this month’s IMF World
Economic Outlook that studied the link between budget cuts and
economic growth, drawing in part on Canada’s experience
eliminating its deficit in the 1990s. Budget cuts slow economic
growth more when many countries attempt it at the same time, he
said.  ‘More Wiggle Room’  “You don’t try and do too quickly and too many at a time,
unless and until you get some improvement in what’s going on in
the rest of the world,” he said in the interview.  Canada has “more wiggle room” with government finances,
suggesting the possibility of faster budget cuts, Freedman said.
The country may want to balance its books sooner because over
the next 10 to 15 years, governments will grapple with rising
health care costs from an older population, he said.  “I might go the other direction and say we are better off
than most other countries, so maybe we should try and
consolidate earlier than the others,” he said.  Freedman was a deputy governor at the Bank of Canada from
1988 to 2003, and is now co-director of the Centre for Monetary
and Financial Economics at Carleton University in Ottawa.  Current Governor  Mark Carney  may not need a major
adjustment in policy if the U.S. Federal Reserve offers
additional monetary stimulus known as quantitative easing,
Freedman said. The extra stimulus in the U.S. may help to blunt
the impact on Canada of weaker U.S. demand from its southern
neighbor, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 