-- Canadian Dollar Weakens for the First Time in Three Days as Stocks Decline
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-26T21:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/canadian-dollar-weakens-for-the-first-time-in-three-days-as-stocks-decline.html
Canada’s dollar depreciated against
its U.S. counterpart for the first time in three days as stocks
and raw materials declined, reducing demand for currencies tied
to economic growth.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, is down 2.1
percent since it traded at parity with the greenback on Oct. 14.
The U.S. dollar strengthened against 15 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts amid bets the Federal Reserve will be able to boost
inflation with increased debt purchases.  “It’s about U.S. dollar strength, rather than Canadian
dollar weakness,”  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange
trading in Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit,
said via e-mail.  The Canadian currency slipped 0.4 percent to C$1.0239 per
the greenback at 5:03 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0200
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 97.68 U.S. cents.  The loonie is headed for a 0.5 percent increase this month
versus the greenback, the seventh-worst performance among the 16
most-traded currencies.  Stocks, Oil  The  MSCI World Index  gauge of equities dropped 0.5 percent.
Crude oil futures declined as much as 0.9 percent to $81.81 a
barrel.  Canada could conduct transactions in the country’s currency
if there is a serious risk to the economy, Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said today before a Parliamentary
committee. The central bank hasn’t intervened in currency
markets since September 1998 for the Canadian dollar and
September 2000 for the euro, according to the bank’s website.  Canada’s currency has gained 0.6 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track 10 developed-world currencies. That’s less than the
advances of dollars of Australia and New Zealand, the Swiss
franc, Sweden’s krona and the yen. The loonie has outperformed
the pound, U.S. dollar, Norwegian krone and euro.  “It’s all about what the big dollar is doing,”  Firas Askari , head currency trader in Toronto at Bank of Montreal,
Canada’s fourth-largest lender, said via e-mail. Weakness in
both stocks and oil “doesn’t help the loonie.”  The U.S. Treasury auctioned $10 billion in five-year
inflation-indexed securities yesterday, drawing the first
negative yield at a U.S. debt sale, minus 0.55 percent, as
investors speculated they will have positive returns when
inflation picks up.  “A lot of this rebound in the U.S. dollar is due to the
TIPS auction and the subsequent rise in U.S. yields,” Scotia’s
Butler said.  Government bonds fell, pushing the yield on the benchmark
two-year 4 basis points higher to 1.43 percent. The 1.5 percent
security due in December 2012 fell 8 cents to C$100.16. The 10-
year’s yield rose 8 basis points to 2.82 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  