-- Cardinal Health Swaps Tumble After Rising on Buyout Speculation
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-26T21:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/cardinal-health-swaps-tumble-after-rising-on-buyout-speculation.html
Traders that had sent credit-default
swaps on Cardinal Health Inc. soaring as they wagered on a
leveraged buyout reversed course after the company said it’s not
in talks with an acquirer.  The cost to protect  debt  issued by Cardinal Health dropped
58.3 basis points to 90.1, according to data provider CMA.
Earlier the swaps climbed as high as 160, according to broker
Phoenix Partners Group. The contracts had risen to the highest
in six years amid speculation the second-biggest U.S. drug
distributor may be purchased by a private-equity firm.  “While it is our longstanding practice not to respond to
market rumors and speculation, we are making an exception in
this limited situation,” the Dublin, Ohio-based company said in
a statement distributed by PRNewswire. “Cardinal Health is not
in discussions with any party regarding an acquisition of
Cardinal Health.”  Morgan Stanley listed the company in an Oct. 22 report on
potential takeover targets resulting from a resurgence of
leveraged buyouts, in which a private-equity firm finances an
acquisition with borrowed money. The New York-based bank, which
previously was skeptical of the return of LBOs, listed a decline
in borrowing costs and increased availability of debt as factors
for the re-emergence.  Credit swaps on the Dublin, Ohio-based company surged 90.9
basis points since Oct. 13 before today.  ‘Stuck’  “As confidence in an economic recovery grows, the
mentality on the part of both corporate managements and
shareholders is shifting from purely playing defense and
preserving liquidity to looking for opportunities to boost
shareholder value,” Morgan Stanley strategists  Rizwan Hussain ,
 Adam Richmond  and  Maya Abdurahmanova , wrote in the Oct. 22
report. “Thanks to improving credit conditions and the overall
yield chase, the amount of leverage that can be put on a new LBO
deal is growing.”  Cardinal Health, which trails U.S. drug distributor Merck &
Co., has a market capitalization of $11.5 billion.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased for a fifth day,
falling 0.6 basis point to a mid-price of 92.8, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, ended May 3 at 90.5 basis
points.  “Nobody really expects there to be a significant move
tighter or wider,” said  Stephen Antczak , head of U.S. credit
strategy at Societe Generale in New York. “We’re going to
bounce around in the range -- we’re stuck.”  Stagnating Prices  Fed policy makers, who already cut  interest rates  almost to
zero and bought $1.7 trillion of securities, are discussing more
purchases of Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money to
prevent stagnating prices from undermining the recovery. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a conference Oct. 15 the
economy may need more stimulus because inflation is too low and
unemployment too high at 9.6 percent. The Fed meets Nov. 2-3.  Bank swaps fell. Contracts on Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America Corp. eased 15.1 basis points to 176.2,
CMA data show. Contracts on Morgan Stanley declined 8.2 basis
points to 151.8 and those on Citigroup Inc. dropped 10.7 basis
points to 133.1, the data show.  Credit default swaps on Ford Motor Co.’s debt dropped after
the world’s most profitable automaker reported record third-
quarter  net income  of $1.69 billion. The Dearborn, Michigan-
based company said it’s paying down debt faster than planned as
new models boost its U.S. market share.  Contracts on the company’s debt eased 30.9 basis points to
339.9, the lowest in five years, according to data from Phoenix
Partners. Contracts on Ford Motor Credit Co., its financing
unit, dropped 23.2 basis points to 238.5, the lowest since
February 2007, CMA data show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  