-- Carlyle, Buyout Firms Looked at Buying Dubai's Assets After Debt Problems
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-26T15:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/carlyle-lbo-firms-looked-at-dubai-assets-after-debt-woes-rubenstein-says.html
Carlyle Group, the world’s second-
biggest private-equity company, and other buyout firms evaluated
purchasing assets owned by Dubai as the emirate looked for ways
to cut its debt, Carlyle co-founder  David Rubenstein  said.  “We have looked at a number of those assets as have a lot
of other private equity people,” Rubenstein told reporters
today at the World Economic Forum in Marrakesh, Morocco. Many
assets owned by Dubai’s investment companies “have not been
sold because there’s an increasing view that the economy is
coming back, the value of these properties are coming back,
there hasn’t been a compelling need to sell at a distressed
price.”  Dubai and its state-owned companies have run up debt of
$109.3 billion, according to the International Monetary Fund, as
the emirate sought to transform itself into a financial,
logistics and tourism hub. Dubai World, one of the emirate’s
three main state-owned holding companies, said in November it
would delay repaying $24.9 billion of loans, which roiled global
markets.  Dubai’s state-controlled investment companies, including
Istithmar World PJSC, Dubai Group LLC and Dubai International
Capital LLC, bought assets around the world. Their assets
include New York-based luxury retailer Barneys New York Inc. and
U.K.-based medical imaging company Alliance Medical Ltd.  “You can assume that most private-equity firms have looked
at most of the things that DIC owned and other assets,”
Rubenstein said. “Dubai didn’t want to sell at the bottom of
the market and correctly they waited and the markets have come
back, so prices are probably higher. I expect there will be
sales at some point, but not at overly distressed prices.”  Dubai World in September reached an agreement with
creditors to repay debt over five and eight years to allow asset
prices to recover as it seeks to maximize the value of its
investments. Dubai Holding LLC, which controls Dubai Group and
Dubai International, said it aims to reach a similar deal with
lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Morocco at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net .
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  