-- Carney Says Canada Could Enter Currency Market If There Is Risk to Economy
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-26T22:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/carney-says-canada-may-enter-currency-market-if-there-is-risk-to-economy.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said today Canada could conduct transactions in the market for
the country’s currency if the exchange rate poses a serious risk
to the economy.  Carney was testifying before a Parliamentary committee. The
central bank hasn’t intervened in currency markets since
September 1998 for the Canadian dollar and September 2000 for
the euro, according to the bank’s website.  “There are heightened tensions in currency markets,”
Carney told members of the Commons Finance Committee, adding the
central bank and government “maintain considerable options to
control the situation if that is necessary.”  “We have to observe persistent strength in the Canadian
dollar, which has the potential to seriously influence Canadian
economic growth,” Carney said. “We have options in those
circumstances.”  The central bank last week kept its  key interest rate  at 1
percent and cut its economic growth forecast, saying that the
expansion would be driven more by exports and investment instead
of consumer and government spending. A stronger currency could
weaken exports by making them more expensive in foreign markets.  “The exchange rate might end up dictating a different mix
of growth,” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at CIBC World
Markets in Toronto. “You want to keep speculators guessing
about what you might or might not do, so being specific at this
point isn’t desirable.”  Carney has raised the possibility of action to weaken the
currency before, including in Oct. 2009 testimony to parliament.  Intervention may “be considered if extreme currency
movements seriously threatened the conditions that support
sustainable long-term growth of the Canadian economy,”
according to the bank’s  website .  The Canadian currency slipped 0.4 percent to C$1.0237 per
the U.S. dollar at 5:56 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0200
yesterday, and was little changed during Carney’s testimony. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.69 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 