-- Cash Hoard Shows Borrowers’ Angst Over Growth: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-10-27T16:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/cash-hoard-of-1-trillion-shows-borrower-angst-over-growth-credit-markets.html
U.S. companies are hoarding almost
$1 trillion of cash, an amount Moody’s Investors Service says
shows borrowers are still concerned the economy may tip back
into recession.    Cisco Systems Inc .,  Microsoft Corp . and  Google Inc . account
for the biggest portion of the $943 billion stockpile, Moody’s
said yesterday in a report. That’s up from $937 billion at the
end of 2009 and $775 billion in the prior year. Companies have a
ratio of cash to capital expenditures of 1.64 times, possibly an
all-time high, the New York-based ratings firm said, compared
with 1.1 times in December 2008.  Borrowers have bolstered their finances by slashing
spending and raising cash, selling $945.8 billion of U.S.
corporate bonds this year, following a record $1.23 trillion in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While that’s
helped corporate  credit quality  improve, a reluctance to use the
money for hiring and investing until more signs of growth emerge
isn’t helping shorten a “jobless recovery,” Moody’s said.  “The mantra is better safe than sorry,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which has $50 billion of assets
under management. “Companies have been very aggressive in
finding ways to do business without having to hire.”  ‘Human Side’  Americans’ views on job availability and wage prospects
soured in October, according to a report yesterday from the New
York-based Conference Board, highlighting the risk that 9.6
percent unemployment will limit  consumer spending , which
accounts for 70 percent of the world’s biggest economy.  Corporate borrowers, concerned last year they wouldn’t be
able to tap debt markets following the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, now fret over prospects for economic
growth, said  John Milne  of JKMilne Asset Management  “It would be naive to believe that the human side of
running a business is insulated from the low confidence that
consumers have,” said Milne, who oversees about $1.8 billion as
chief executive officer for the firm in  Fort Myers ,  Florida .  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt fell 1 basis point to 165 basis points, or 1.65
percentage point, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. The spread has narrowed
from this year’s high of 201 basis points on June 11. Yields
averaged 3.48 percent yesterday, from 3.43 percent Oct. 25.  Broadcom Debut    Broadcom Corp ., the biggest maker of chips for television
set-top boxes, plans to sell $600 million of three- and five-
year senior notes in its debut offering as soon as today,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes, the
company said yesterday in a statement.  Georgia-Pacific LLC may sell 10-year notes in a benchmark
offering and use the proceeds for general corporate purposes
including repayment of debt, according to a person familiar with
the transaction who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. Benchmark issues are typically at least $500
million.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 1.6 basis points to a mid-
price of 94.1 as of 12:01 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The Markit iTraxx  Europe  Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 2 basis points to 97.9 basis
points in  London .  Leveraged Loans  Credit swap indexes typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index rose
0.05 cent to 91.19 cents on the dollar, the highest since May
10. The index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated
first-lien leveraged loans, has returned 7.36 percent this year.    British American Tobacco Plc , Europe’s largest cigarette
maker, opened talks with lenders to refinance $3.7 billion of
loans due in 2012 to benefit from a halving of debt costs this
year.  The maker of Dunhill, Kent and Lucky Strike cigarettes is
seeking to renew its borrowings “to take advantage of the
favorable credit market conditions,” spokeswoman Catherine Armstrong said in an interview.  Banks have cut interest margins to European companies rated
between BBB+ and BBB- by S&P to 78 basis points this year from
an average 142 basis points last year, according to Bloomberg
data. BAT is rated BBB+ by S&P and Baa1 by Moody’s.  ‘Surprisingly Well’  As companies have used operating cash flow and bond
offerings to refinance debt, corporate credit quality has
improved. This year, 624 borrowers have had their ratings
upgraded, versus 610 downgrades, according to Moody’s. That
compares with 447 upgrades and 2,084 downgrades in the same
period of 2009.  “Corporate America is doing surprisingly well and adjusted
very quickly to the downturn,” said Steve Oman, an analyst at
Moody’s. “Myself and other people were hoping that maybe with
all of this cash we’d start to see the U.S. corporates spending
this for  capital investment  and there would be a benefit for
employment situation.”  Most Cash    San Jose , California-based Cisco has the most cash and
short-term investments on its balance sheet with $39.9 billion,
Moody’s said. Microsoft has $36.8 billion and  Mountain View ,
California-based Google has $30.1 billion.  Corporations will eventually have to use that cash amid
shareholder demands to boost returns, reversing the improvement
in their balance sheets, Oman said.  Announced equity buybacks of $276.3 billion this year have
more than quadrupled from the first three quarters of 2009,
according to Birinyi Associates Inc. Companies are also taking
on more debt with buyout firms led by Blackstone Group LP
announcing takeovers at the fastest rate since 2007.  “To the extent that they are buying shares or distributing
cash, it is definitely to detriment of the bondholder,” said
Lowell Bennett, managing director and fixed-income strategist in  San Francisco  with Mellon Capital Management, which oversees
about $190 billion in assets. “Increasing the leverage is going
to make the bonds more risky.”  Quantitative Easing  Rising confidence can be seen in higher bond prices, which
have pushed U.S. corporate yields as low as 4.49 percent on Oct.
11, the lowest on record, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Yields climbed to 4.57 percent yesterday.  Federal Reserve policy makers, who meet Nov. 2-3, have
already cut  interest rates  almost to zero and bought $1.7
trillion of securities. They are discussing more purchases of
Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money to prevent
stagnating prices from undermining the recovery, a strategy
called quantitative easing.  Default rates are declining as borrowing costs drop. The
U.S. speculative-grade default rate will fall to 2.2 percent in
a year from 4 percent in September, off the peak of 14.7 percent
in November 2009, Moody’s said Oct. 12 in a report.  High-yield, high-risk issuers have sold $226.8 billion of
bonds this year, breaking the record $162.7 billion of offerings
in 2009, Bloomberg data show. Speculative-grade debt is rated
Ba1 and below by Moody’s or BB+ and lower by S&P.  Record Low Coupons  Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., the
world’s largest retailer, sold $5 billion of debt in a four-part
offering on Oct. 18 at some of the lowest coupons ever. The
transaction included $750 million of 3-year, 0.75 percent notes
that yield 30 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries
and $1.25 billion of 5-year, 1.5 percent debt at a spread of 48
basis points, Bloomberg data show.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , sold $4.75 billion
of bonds last month including $1 billion of 0.875 percent notes
due in September 2013 and $1.75 billion of 1.625 percent debt
maturing in September 2015.  The 3-year notes, issued Sept. 22 at 99.835 cents on the
dollar, have climbed to 100.129 cents to yield 0.83 percent,
Trace data show. Cisco bonds have lost 0.78 percent this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  