-- Cemex Posts Fourth Straight Loss as U.S. cement Prices Fall, Spain Shrinks
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-10-26T15:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/cemex-has-fourth-straight-loss-as-u-s-prices-fall-amends-debt-covenants.html
Cemex SAB , the largest cement maker
in the Americas, posted a loss for a fourth straight quarter as
cement prices fell in the U.S. and Spain’s construction industry
contracted.  The net loss was $89.3 million, or 9 cents per American
depositary receipt, in the third quarter, compared with net
income of $121 million, or 14 cents, a year earlier, the
Monterrey, Mexico-based company said in a statement today. Sales
fell 2.3 percent to $3.77 billion.  Cemex’s results have been hurt as a recovery in global
construction takes longer than anticipated. The company, which
persuaded bankers to refinance $15 billion of  debt  last year to
avoid default, cut its cash-flow and earnings targets twice
since the beginning of the year.  The cement maker said it reached an agreement yesterday to
amend debt covenants that allows for lower earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  The company must sell $1 billion of equity or equity-linked
securities next year or its interest rate will increase by 1
percentage point, Chief Financial Officer  Rodrigo Trevino  said
on a conference call with investors and analysts. He didn’t
specify the company’s new rate.  Cemex’s American depositary shares rose 34 cents, or 4.2
percent, to $8.50 at 11:50 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, after earlier jumping 9.3 percent for the
biggest intraday increase since May 10. Before today, they had
dropped 28 percent this year.  U.S. Plant Closings  Cemex cut its U.S. workforce 10 percent in the third
quarter from a year ago and closed nine ready-mix plants and six
aggregate quarries as construction slumped, said  Fernando Gonzalez , executive vice president of planning and finance.  Sales in the U.S. dropped 9 percent to $683 million as
cement shipments were little changed and average prices fell 7
percent. Mexico sales rose 14 percent as volumes climbed 2
percent and prices in dollars rose 4 percent. In Europe, sales
dropped 9 percent to $1.39 billion. In Spain, cement shipments
plunged 21 percent.  Adjusted earnings per American depositary receipt were
predicted to show a loss of 3 cents, according to the average of
eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were
projected at about $3.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 