-- CFTC Proposes Regulations to Implement Dodd-Frank on Manipulation, Fraud
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-10-26T16:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/cftc-to-consider-proposed-dodd-frank-rules-against-manipulation-fraud.html
The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission proposed rules today to expand its ability to
prohibit fraud and manipulation in the markets for commodities
including oil, natural gas, precious metals, wheat and corn.  The regulations are part of the  Dodd-Frank financial
overhaul , which became law in July and gave the commission a
year to establish rules governing the $615 trillion over-the-
counter derivatives market. Congress took aim at the industry
after soured trades on mortgage and credit derivatives tipped
the U.S. economy into the deepest recession since the 1930s.  The law “contains new manipulation provisions as well as
antidisruptive trading rules,” Commissioner  Bart Chilton  said
in a statement, citing the need for better controls in the
metals markets in particular. The rules, along with position
limits, “will go a long way toward ensuring more efficient and
effective metals markets devoid of fraud, abuse and
manipulation,” he said.  The financial revamp, named for its primary authors, Senate
Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut
Democrat, and House Financial Services Chairman  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat, mandates that most interest-rate,
credit-default and other swaps be processed by clearinghouses
after being traded on exchanges or swap-execution facilities.  The commission considered today a series of issues
including disruptive trading practices, removing reference to
and reliance on credit ratings in commission regulations, and
the process of reviewing swaps for mandatory clearing.  Manipulation Test  Proving manipulation has challenged courts and lawmakers
since the early attempts to regulate the U.S. commodity markets
in the 1920s. The  proposed rules , if approved, will expand the
commission’s authority to the over-the-counter market and may
make manipulation easier to prove.  Under current law, manipulation cases hinge on a four-prong
test that begins with proving that prices were “artificial,”
or outside the bounds of normal supply and demand. Then the
government must prove that the accused had the ability to cause
an artificial price, took actions to cause it and intended it.  The CFTC proposal adds a prohibition on fraud-based
manipulation that would cover intentional and reckless conduct
that deceives or defrauds market participants. Penalties include
a $1 million fine or triple the monetary gain, whichever is
greater, and restitution to customers. The commission voted 5-0
to publish the proposed rule for a 60-day public comment period.  Algorithmic Trading  The commission also voted unanimously to seek public input
on a series of questions regarding potentially disruptive
trading practices including “spoofing,” “banging the close,”
and algorithmic trading. Spoofing, a practice where a trader
enters a bid or offer with the intent of canceling it before the
trade is carried out, is expressly prohibited by the
legislation.  The law also prohibits conduct that demonstrates
“intentional or reckless disregard for the orderly execution of
transactions in the closing period,” which targets a practice
whereby traders attempt to affect a settlement price by buying
or selling large volumes just before the close.  The commission included questions regarding algorithmic
trading, programs designed to respond to market changes without
human involvement.  Needed Clarity  The proposed rule may not give traders the necessary
clarity to understand what types of behavior constitute
manipulation and disruptive trading, said Commissioner  Scott O’Malia .  “If the commission determines that the strategy was
engaged in recklessly, under its new authority it could find
that the strategy was manipulative even though the trader
executing the strategy had no intent to impact market prices or
to disrupt the market itself,” O’Malia said.  The CFTC voted 5-0 in favor of dropping a requirement that
commodity funds look to credit ratings in determining whether an
investment is safe. Instead, funds will have more responsibility
to assess the risks posed by assets.  The proposal responds to a Dodd-Frank requirement that
agencies remove references to credit ratings in their rules.
Lawmakers approved the provision to reduce reliance on ratings
after Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service gave
faulty assessments of subprime mortgage bonds that plummeted in
value.  Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events such as changes in interest rates or weather.
Futures are traded on regulated exchanges, while over-the-
counter contracts are privately negotiated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 