-- Chicago, San Antonio Offering Build Americas Amid IRS Audit: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-26T14:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/chicago-san-antonio-tap-build-americas-amid-audit-muni-credit.html
Chicago and San Antonio, the third
and seventh most-populous U.S. cities, are selling a total of
$750 million in Build America Bonds amid an Internal Revenue
Service audit of previous sales of the taxable securities.  The IRS is probing San Antonio’s sale of $375 million in
federally subsidized debt for its municipal utility,  CPS Energy ,
in June 2009. The agency is also looking into the Metropolitan
Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago’s sale of $600
million of the securities in August 2009. The agency is
independent of the city. This week’s sales come as Build America
issuance reaches $3.9 billion, a  10-month high , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the audits may have no discernible effect on the
latest sales, both may be forced to price aggressively given the
numbers of Build Americas available, said  Mike Pietronico , chief
executive officer of New York-based Miller Tabak Asset
Management.  “The bigger issue is the gigantic amount of BABs supply
coming into the market through the end of the year,” said
Pietronico, who oversees $315 million in municipal debt. “The
audit is a nuisance.”  San Antonio Bonds  San Antonio’s debt from the previous sale, maturing in
February 2039, traded yesterday at an average yield of 5.17
percent, or 126 basis points above a comparable U.S. Treasury.
The so-called spread was 106 basis points on Oct. 21. Build
Americas from the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of
Greater Chicago, which serves an area of 883 square miles,
including the City of Chicago and 125 suburban communities,
traded at a spread of 127 basis points on Oct. 22, up from 119
basis points on Sept. 28. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Chicago’s offering this week, secured by a subordinate
pledge on the city’s sewer-system revenue, is ranked AA by Fitch
Ratings, third-highest; Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service,
fourth-highest; and A+ by Standard & Poor’s, fifth-highest.  Pete Scales, a spokesman for Chicago’s budget office and
Chief Financial Officer  Gene Saffold , didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment on the debt sale.  Jonathan Baum , director of investment banking for Kansas
City-based George K. Baum & Co., the deal’s underwriter, didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  San Antonio’s $500 million Build America sale, backed by
electric- and gas-system revenue, is rated Aa2 and AA by Moody’s
and S&P, third-highest, and AA+ by Fitch, one level higher.  Being ‘Prudent’  It’s unlikely that the audit will affect the deal’s
pricing, said  Paula Gold-Williams , the chief financial officer
of CPS Energy, in a telephone interview yesterday.  “This program has been very, very successful,” she said.
“It’s just prudent on the part of the IRS to ensure the program
has been administered responsibly.”  Justin Perras , spokesman for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , an
underwriter on the sale, declined to comment.  Investors are comfortable with San Antonio’s credit, so the
audit may not have an impact on pricing, said  Jeffery Elswick ,
director of fixed income at Frost Investment Advisors LLC in the
city. The firm oversees $6.6 billion in  assets .  “It’s not what folks will focus negatively on,” said
Elswick, who said he plans to buy the bonds. “The market right
now is receptive to new deals, so it might not affect the
market.”  Shifted Attention  The IRS, which monitors abuses by borrowers in the
subsidized municipal-bond market, has shifted attention to Build
America Bonds since they were created last year. The market has
since swelled to more than $148 billion.  The agency is auditing 15 to 20 Build America Bond deals,
said  Clifford Gannett , the director of the tax-exempt bond
division of the IRS.  Among other issues, he said, the IRS is examining initial
trading in the securities to see whether jumps in price soon
after they are sold run afoul of regulations meant to keep
issuers from selling the securities at above-market interest
rates. That would boost the cost of the subsidy payments by the
Treasury.  In tax-exempt bonds, audits can pose a risk to investors
because the IRS can revoke that exemption, exposing holders to
tax bills. In the case of Build Americas, investors aren’t
exposed to that risk.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 