-- China's Mecox Lane Surges After $129 Million U.S. IPO
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-10-26T20:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/china-s-mecox-lane-raises-129-million-selling-u-s-ipo-above-price-range.html
Mecox Lane Ltd.  raised $129 million
pricing its initial public offering above the forecast range in
the latest sign of surging demand for U.S. IPOs of Chinese
Internet companies. The shares rallied 57 percent.  The Shanghai-based online retailer sold 11.7 million
American depositary receipts for $11 each yesterday, after
offering them at $8 to $10 apiece, a  filing  with the Securities
and Exchange Commission and a company statement showed. Mecox
Lane climbed  $6.26  to $17.26 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The initial sale came after companies from China posted six
of the ten largest gains among U.S. IPOs this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ChinaCache International Holdings
Ltd. , the Beijing-based provider of Internet content to
businesses, this month posted the biggest first-day rally for a
U.S. IPO in three years after the number of Internet users in
China surpassed the American population.  “The growth trajectory is so good that people try to
extrapolate that trajectory out to certain levels,” said Darren
Fabric, Chicago-based managing director at IPOX Capital
Management LLC, which oversees $3 billion. “People are willing
to pay up for growth.” IPOX bought shares in Mecox Lane’s IPO.  Credit Suisse, UBS  Credit Suisse Group AG  and UBS AG of Zurich led the
offering.  Mecox Lane , which sells products from its Euromoda and
Rampage brands as well as third-party brands such as Adidas and
Li Ning, will use the proceeds to help improve its e-commerce
infrastructure, expand store growth, and build part of a new
logistics center and warehouse, the prospectus said.  The company’s  sales  climbed 42 percent to $108 million in
the first half of 2010 compared with a year earlier, the SEC
filing showed. China had an estimated 420 million Internet users
at the end of June, an increase of 36 million from six months
earlier, according to data from the government-sponsored China
Internet Network Information Center. The U.S. population is
about 311 million, according to the Census Bureau’s website.  China’s economy will grow 9.6 percent in 2011, according to
estimates from the Washington-based International Monetary Fund.
That compares with 2.2 percent for developed nations and 2.3
percent forecast for the U.S.  ‘Emerging Opportunities’  “We’ve demonstrated our ability to deliver growth,”
Alfred Gu, Mecox Lane’s chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview from the Nasdaq in New York. “The Chinese
economy has been growing fast for the past 10 years, and we’re
very confident that it will do well in the coming years. In lots
of industries, there are emerging opportunities.”  ChinaCache  jumped 95 percent on Oct. 1 after raising $84
million pricing its IPO above the forecast range. The company
sold $97 million of shares including its overallotment option.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. , the Beijing-based operator of China’s
largest property website, surged 73 percent on Sept. 17 after
selling its $125 million IPO at the top of the forecast range.  “Investors are willing to take on risk only if they see
the growth rates that makes it worth that risk,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1 billion at YCMNet Advisors in
Walnut Creek, California.  This Week’s Offerings  Mecox Lane’s offering was the first of six scheduled for
this week after five of last week’s six climbed at least 13
percent in their first day of trading, Bloomberg data show.  The share-price gains were a sign that the IPO market may
be rebounding after at least 54 companies withdrew or postponed
initial sales this year amid concern that the recovery from the
longest recession since the Great Depression was deteriorating.
No American company has raised more than $700 million in an
initial offering this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  S&P 500  has rallied 16 percent from its 2010 low in
July as investors speculated the Federal Reserve will pump more
cash into the economy and earnings topped analyst estimates at
 86 percent  of the companies in the index that have reported
third-quarter results since Oct. 7.  Pacific Biosciences of California Inc. , the Menlo Park,
California-based maker of gene-mapping systems, is seeking to
raise $213 million in an offering led by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Morgan Stanley in New York today, SEC filings show.  First Wind, ExamWorks  First Wind Holdings Inc. , the Boston-based developer and
operator of wind energy projects backed by D.E. Shaw & Co., will
offer 12 million Class A shares for $24 to $26 each tomorrow,
filings with the SEC show.  ExamWorks Group Inc. , the Atlanta-based provider of medical
legal services, is selling 10.3 million shares at $16 to $18
each tomorrow. New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit
Suisse and Barclays Plc of London are leading the offering.  SeaCube Container Leasing Ltd. , the Park Ridge, New Jersey-
based container leasing company, may raise $135 million
tomorrow. JPMorgan, New York-based Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank
AG of Frankfurt and Wells Fargo & Co. in San Francisco are
arranging the sale.  Le Gaga Holdings Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based vegetable
producer, will sell 10.9 million ADRs at $7.50 to $9.50 apiece
on Oct. 28. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
Corp. and UBS are arranging Le Gaga’s offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 