-- China Railway Construction Plunges Most in Two Years on Mecca-Project Loss
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-26T08:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/china-railway-construction-tumbles-after-forecasting-loss-on-mecca-project.html
China Railway Construction Corp.,
the builder of more than half the nation’s railroads, fell the
most in almost two years in Hong Kong trading after predicting a
4.15 billion yuan ($623 million) loss from a Mecca rail project.  The stock plunged 14 percent, the most since November, 2008.
to HK$9.63 at the close. In Shanghai, the builder fell 5.2
percent, the most in over a year, to 7.59 yuan.  The loss, equal to about 63 percent of the company’s annual
profit last year, was caused partly by changes in the project
requirements, delays in land expropriations and the need for
“large amounts” of manpower and resources to ensure on-time
completion, the builder said in a stock-exchange statement late
yesterday. Compensation talks have begun, it said.  “The loss raises concern about cost overruns on other
projects,” said  Han Weiqi , an analyst at  Capital Securities
Corp . “It’s natural for the company’s shares to fall, and they
may fall further.”  China Railway Group Ltd ., the nation’s second-biggest
builder behind China Rail Construction, fell 2.7 percent to
HK$6.40 in Hong Kong.  China Rail Construction worked on 72 overseas building
projects last year, including the Mecca line and railways in
Algeria, Nigeria and Libya, according to its annual report.  Earnings Impact  The Mecca loss may have a “material impact” on third-
quarter earnings and could affect full-year results if the
compensation negotiations aren’t concluded, Beijing-based China
Rail Construction said. The cost climbed from an expected 12.4
billion yuan as of Dec. 31, 2009, to 16.1 billion yuan,
excluding financing, as of Sept. 30, it said.  The company signed a deal with Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of
Municipality and Rural Affairs in February, 2009 to build and
operate the light railway, according to the statement. Mecca is
the holiest site in Islam, with the annual Hajj pilgrimage
drawing at least 2 million Muslims to the city.  The railway is due to begin limited operations next month
and to reach full capacity in May, according to the statement.
China Rail is due to operate and maintain the line for the first
three years of service.  -- Jing Jin  with assistance from  Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai.
Editors:  Neil Denslow ,  Dave McCombs   To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Jing Jin in Shanghai at 
 jjin32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 