-- Aluminum Output in China May Grow 23 Percent This Year, Ministry Forecasts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-26T08:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/china-aluminum-output-may-advance-to-16-million-tons-this-year-miit-says.html
Aluminum  output  in China may grow to
16 million metric tons this year, even as the world’s largest
producer curbs power supplies to smelters, said an official from
the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.  “The forecast has taken the output cuts into
consideration,” Zhang Fengkui, head of the nonferrous metals
office at the ministry’s raw materials department, said at a
conference in Zhengzhou today. That’s an increase of 23 percent
from 13 million tons last year, according to Bloomberg News
calculations. Aluminum is used in production of cars and cans.  Aluminum smelters in Henan, Guizhou, Qinghai provinces and
Guangxi region have started suspending some capacity as local
governments strive to meet Beijing’s energy-conservation goals
set for 2010. China last month imported more of the metal than
it exported for the first time since May as energy curbs cut
output.  “The high costs will drive aluminum smelters to cut energy
consumption and move to more energy-rich regions in the west,”
said Hu Changping, director of the aluminum department at the
China Nonferrous Metals Industry Association. Power fees account
for about half of Chinese smelters’ output costs, the highest
level compared with producers around the world, Hu said.  Domestic production of the light metal has fallen every
month since June after the government ended discounts on
electricity charges and doubled surcharges for high-energy
consumption companies.  Price Gains  Alumimum has gained 6.1 percent this year on the London
Metal Exchange, reaching a six-month high this month of $2,459 a
ton. The three-month contract declined 0.3 percent to  $2,366.75
at 4:31 p.m. in Shanghai.  Nearly 1 million tons of capacity may have to be shut in
Henan province, China’s largest aluminum-producing region, in
the fourth quarter, the MIIT’s Zhang said in an interview at the
conference.  That is an increase from an estimate of a 720,000-ton
reduction in annual production by the Henan provincial
nonferrous metals industry association on Oct. 11.  China has approximately 21.14 million tons of aluminum
production capacity now and if there were no power supply
controls, output would increase at a higher rate, Zhang said.  China has 3.6 million tons of aluminum capacity under
construction this year, 80 percent of which located in western
regions, said the association’s Hu.  Chalco Cuts  Aluminum Corp.  of China Ltd., better known as Chalco, has 5
percent to 6 percent of capacity affected due to the power
constraint, Vice President Jiang Yinggang said today, without
elaborating.  The company, China’s largest aluminum producer, may have
shut 400,000 tons of output capacity, or 10 percent of the
total, said Essence Securities Co.’s Heng Kun and CRU
International Ltd.’s Wan Ling on Oct. 22.  China’s consumption this year is forecast to reach 15.5
million tons to 16 million tons, growing to 27.4 million tons by
2015, as demand for light metal gains as energy-saving measures
become more prevalent amid growing awareness of environmental
protection, Chalco’s Jiang said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  