-- China to Curb `Abnormal' Trading as Sugar, Cotton Futures Gain to Records
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-26T03:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/china-to-curb-abnormal-trading-as-sugar-cotton-futures-gain-to-records.html
China’s Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange
will act to curb “abnormal” futures trading and speculation as
prices of cotton and sugar surge to records.  The exchange may force investors to settle contracts before
they expire, restrict their positions, or recommend an
investigation by the securities watchdog if they detect abnormal
trading, the bourse said in a statement on its  website .  Turnover on the Zhengzhou exchange has more than tripled in
the first nine months of the year, the best performer among the
country’s three main commodity bourses,  according  to the China
Futures Association, as tight supplies of commodities increase
their investment appeal. Concern about inflation at a 23-month
high has spurred government sales of sugar, cotton and corn in
an effort to curb price gains.  “The exchange is obviously under pressure after the recent
movements in the agricultural commodities such as cotton and
sugar,” Tian Feng, analyst at BOC International (China) Ltd.,
said by phone from Shanghai today. “The statement today showed
its resolve to enhance risk control and crack down on abnormal
trading activities.”  Cotton futures jumped 6.5 percent to a record 27,980 yuan
($4,199) a ton in Zhengzhou on concern that weather damage to
crops in the U.S. and China will curb supplies. Sugar also
gained 2.1 percent to 6,900 yuan a ton, the highest ever.  Investment inflows have also lifted corn to a record on the
Dalian Commodity Exchange and supported rice futures in
Zhengzhou, natural rubber in Shanghai and soybean oil and
rapeseed oil.  ‘Abnormal’ Trading  The exchange defined “abnormal” trading as frequently
placing orders and then canceling them, buying and selling in
order to influence the settlement price, or stealing other
people’s trading passwords, it said in the statement posted
yesterday. Clients shouldn’t use related accounts to hold
positions that exceed the exchange-set limit, it said.  The exchange reiterated that individual investors are not
allowed to take delivery, therefore are forbidden to hold
positions in contracts that will require delivery in a month,
the statement said.  Broker members of the exchange are advised to raise margin
requirements, restrict positions and force clients to close
positions whenever abnormal trading activities are detected, the
statement said.  The exchange may also request member brokers for full
disclosure and keep a monitoring list, it said, without
elaborating.  The curbs will take effect from Nov. 8 to protect
investors’ interests, the exchange said.  -- Feiwen Rong . With assistance from Huang Zhe in Beijing.
Editors: Richard Dobson, Matthew Oakley.  To contact the Bloomberg News staffs on this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  