-- CIT Profit Beats Estimates Amid Accounting Revisions
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-10-27T19:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/cit-group-reports-profit-beating-estimates-on-bankruptcy-accounting-gains.html
(Corrects quote in third paragraph of story published Oct.
26.)  CIT Group Inc., the business lender
led by John A. Thain, jumped the most in New York trading since
May after reporting a quarterly profit that beat analysts’
estimates and saying loan quality is improving.  The shares rose 5.6 percent to $42.85 at 4:15 p.m., the
highest since the company emerged from bankruptcy in December.
The stock is up 55 percent this year.  CIT reported third-quarter net income of $131.5 million, or
66 cents a share, beating the 47-cent average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Credit quality measures “are
stabilizing,” Thain told analysts on a conference call.  “We were impressed with the improvement in credit quality
and the success they are having originating loans at the bank,”
said Henry J. Coffey, a Nashville-based analyst at brokerage
Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc.  CIT is recovering from a bankruptcy that wiped out $2.3
billion in U.S. bailout money. Thain, hired as chief executive
officer in February, has been shrinking the company and looking
for less expensive sources of funding while aiming to keep a
viable base of customers. He is negotiating with regulators for
permission to raise more money through insured deposits at CIT’s
Utah-based bank subsidiary.  “Our balance sheet remains strong and capital ratios rose,
as we paid down high-cost debt, further optimized our portfolio
and improved our funding flexibility,” Thain said in a
statement announcing earnings today.  ‘Fresh-Start Accounting’  Third-quarter results were boosted by $265.9 million in
“fresh-start accounting,” or FSA, adjustments related to
changes the company made to balance-sheet values when it exited
bankruptcy protection, according to the statement. Earnings
aren’t comparable with the year-ago quarter before CIT’s
bankruptcy.  Net income fell 23 percent from a revised second-quarter
profit of $171.4 million, or 85 cents, according to the New
York-based company’s statement. In the earlier quarter, the firm
recorded a revised $413.8 million in gains from adjustments.  “Without in any way trying to be predictive, we are making
progress,” Thain said when asked on the call when CIT will be
profitable without accounting adjustments.  A drop in loans on which CIT is no longer accruing interest
shows credit quality is improving, said Coffey. Those debts
declined to 8.8 percent of finance receivables from 9.3 percent,
according to the statement.  ‘Balancing Act’  Average earning assets, including loans and leases,
declined $2.7 billion to $39.1 billion as the firm sold holdings
and borrowers repaid loans.  “It is a balancing act between paying down high-cost debt
and writing business,” said Brian Charles, an analyst at R.W.
Pressprich & Co. in New York.  Thain, 55, stepped down as Merrill Lynch & Co.’s CEO after
it was acquired by Bank of American Corp. last year. At CIT, he
has sold non-core assets, including an Australian vendor-finance
business, to raise cash and repay debt left from the bankruptcy,
some with interest rates of as much as 10.25 percent.  CIT, once the biggest independent commercial lender in the
U.S., entered bankruptcy last November after losses tied to home
loans and getting shut out of short-term capital markets. The
government lost its $2.3 billion investment in the bankruptcy,
and CIT had to submit to tighter supervision by regulators at
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  Bank Holding Company  CIT became a bank holding company in December 2008 in a
quest for more stable funding. Thain wants to do more business
through CIT’s bank subsidiary. As of June, the bank held $5.2
billion of $28.5 billion of CIT Group loans, according to a
company filing. Almost all the corporate-finance loans CIT made
during the quarter originated in the bank, Thain said.  On his watch, CIT has repaid, or refinanced at lower
rates, $7.5 billion in first-lien debt in a drive to cut funding
costs. Getting rid of the debt, some of which was costing more
than 10 percent, helped widen the margin between CIT’s cost of
money and its interest revenue by 0.23 percentage points to 0.92
points, excluding the bankruptcy accounting impact and
prepayment penalties, Chief Financial Officer Scott T. Parker
said during the call.  “Client retention has improved and we continue to win new
business,” he said.  ‘Immaterial Errors’  CIT revised the previous two quarters’ results after “a
review of fresh-start accounting balances and processes,”
according to the statement. Second-quarter profit increased to
$171.4 million from the previously reported $142.1 million.
First-quarter profit rose to $115.4 million from $97.3 million.  “The company discovered and corrected immaterial errors,”
CIT wrote in the statement. “While the adjustments were
primarily related to the complexities of FSA and the accounting
for the related activity, some other errors were identified as
well.”  Regulators have been concerned about CIT’s risk-control and
information systems and CIT is spending to improve them, Thain
said in July.  “There is still lots to do, but we are making progress,”
he said on the call today about negotiations with regulators for
the ability to take more bank deposits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Henry in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  