-- Citigroup Beating HSBC First Time as Axis Taps Dollar Debt: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-10-27T03:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/citigroup-beating-hsbc-first-time-as-axis-sells-india-credit.html
Citigroup Inc.  overtook  HSBC
Holdings Plc  as the leading arranger of overseas bond sales from
India for the first time as companies tap record demand for debt
from Asia’s second-fastest growing economy.  The third-largest U.S. bank arranged about $1.21 billion of
international debt after helping Axis Bank Ltd. sell $500
million of bonds yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. London-based HSBC, the top-ranked arranger in 2009,
slipped to second with $1.19 billion, the data show.  Dollar-denominated bond sales from India have more than
tripled this year to $6.5 billion as record-low interest rates
in the U.S. spur international investors to buy higher-yielding
securities. Indian dollar bonds yield on average 4.35 percent,
HSBC indexes show, compared with 3.62 percent for U.S. company
debt, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate Master Index.  “Global investors are looking at emerging markets and Asia
in particular, given the relatively higher growth rates and
better yields,”  Rajiv Nayar , the head of capital markets
origination in Mumbai for Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank,
said in an e-mail response to questions yesterday.  Citigroup, 12 percent-owned by U.S. taxpayers, was part of
the underwriting group that helped  Reliance Industries Ltd. ,
India’s biggest company, sell $1.5 billion of bonds this month
and State Bank of India, the nation’s largest, raise $1 billion
in July. HSBC has still arranged more Indian sales than last
year or 2008, including the Reliance and State Bank issues.  “What’s worked for us this year is the fact that our
execution record has been one of the best,” said  Hitendra Dave ,
head of global markets at HSBC for India in Mumbai. “Liquidity
and credit conditions have been very supportive.”  Bailout  Citigroup, based in New York, needed a $45 billion taxpayer
bailout in 2008 as mortgage losses swelled following writedowns
on subprime mortgages and related securities that had led to the
ousting of Charles O. “Chuck” Prince as chief executive
officer in late 2007.  “Citigroup went through a tumultuous period during the
banking crisis of 2008 and it naturally takes time before you
can really commit capital again to investment banking,”  Jean- Dominique Butikofer , a fund manager at Union Bancaire Privee in
Zurich who oversees about $500 million of emerging-market debt.
“It’s clear they are pushing hard in a region that’s one of the
fastest growing.”  Planned Sales  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  predicted in June
2009 that Citicorp -- the bank’s biggest operation by revenue
from securities trading, investment banking, branch banking,
credit cards and corporate cash management -- would derive half
its future business from emerging markets. Since then, Citigroup
has ramped up hiring in China and increased bond underwriting in
Venezuela.  Indian companies are benefiting from record overseas
appetite for rupee debt that’s driven $10 billion of investments
this year, more than international investors’ combined purchases
in the previous eight years.  Axis Bank, located in Mumbai, sold 5 1/2-year dollar bonds
yesterday at a spread of 360 basis points over similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “International borrowing is becoming cheaper than domestic
borrowing,” said  Hari Das Khunteta , finance director at New
Delhi-based Rural Electrification Corp, which plans to sell $500
million of bonds in December. “Overseas investors are very keen
to invest because of the excess liquidity in global markets.”  ICICI Bank Ltd. , India’s second-largest lender, hired
Citigroup, Barclays Capital and Deutsche Bank AG earlier this
month to help sell $1 billion of bonds, three people familiar
with the plan said, asking not to be identified as the matter is
private.  Attractive Financing  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said yesterday there are
no plans to curb capital from abroad, after nations including
Brazil and Thailand imposed taxes to limit inflows.  The  difference  in yields between India’s securities due in
a decade and U.S. Treasuries widened 22 basis points this month
to 555, or 5.59 percentage points. The gap has grown from 375 at
the end of 2009.  The extra yield investors demand to hold India’s top-rated
local corporate bonds over government debt has fallen to 59
basis points from 86 at the start of the year.  “Given the close to all-time low benchmark U.S. Treasury
interest rates and compression in credit spreads, the
international bond markets present an extremely attractive
financing alternative to issuers,” Citigroup’s Nayar said.  Global investors also favor corporate debt from Indonesia
and China, he said.  High Yielder  India’s 10-year  bonds  declined yesterday, pushing yields to
the highest level in two years, on speculation investors have
less cash to buy debt after the nation’s record share offering
by Coal India Ltd. drained funds from the system.  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due May 2020 rose 4 basis
points to 8.18 percent, the highest in Asia after Pakistan,
according to the central bank’s trading system.  “The Indian bond market is the high-yielding market in
Asia,” said  Kenneth Akintewe , a Singapore-based portfolio
manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd. “Foreign demand
for debt is pretty strong, so it’s not surprising companies are
taking advantage.”  India’s benchmark note is the highest yield among the major
emerging economies except Brazil, where similar-maturity notes
pay 12.6 percent. Comparable securities offer 7.34 percent in
Russia and 3.3 percent in China and 2.63 percent in the U.S.,
Bloomberg data show.  Rupee  The rupee fell 0.4 percent to 44.61 per dollar today, after
climbing 4.5 percent this year against the dollar.  Speaking at a conference in New Delhi yesterday, Finance
Minister Mukherjee said the central bank is monitoring rupee
gains. The appreciation has implications for Indian exports,
Mukherjee said.  Accelerating economic growth in India is lifting corporate
earnings and helping drive a record improvement in credit
quality.  Crisil Ltd ., the Indian unit of Standard & Poor’s,
raised rankings of 253 local borrowers in the six months ended
Sept. 30, the most since it started business in 1987. The
 International Monetary Fund  this month raised India’s economic
 growth  forecast to 9.7 percent for 2010 from a July estimate of
9.4 percent.  Tata Motors Ltd. , the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, had its
credit rating raised yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service for
the second time this year as sales of its vehicles increased.  Overseas holdings of India’s corporate and government debt
have more than doubled in 2010, according to data from the
Securities and Exchange Board of India.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  