-- Citigroup Cuts Euro View Against Dollar, Pound, Franc
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-26T15:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/citigroup-eliminates-long-euro-positions-versus-dollar-pound-swiss-franc.html
Citigroup Inc. technical analysts
scrapped recommendations to bet the euro will appreciate against
the Swiss franc, British pound and U.S. dollar, citing “price
action in the past 48 hours.”  The euro’s drop against the pound and franc and its failure
to close near the intraday high versus the dollar yesterday
shows Europe’s single currency lost momentum,  Tom Fitzpatrick ,
chief technical strategist in New York, said in a telephone
interview after publishing a research note. The euro has rallied
13 percent against the dollar since June 30 on speculation the
Federal Reserve will debase the greenback by increasing debt
purchases.  “It’s feeling like we may be in danger of a little bit of
a risk squeeze,” Fitzpatrick said. “It’s really across all
markets. Every trade at the moment is a quantitative-easing
trade, and therefore the danger is if they started to falter,
they can all falter together.”  The euro fell 0.9 percent to $1.3841 at 4:05 p.m. in London
today. It was little changed against the yen, at 112.85 per euro
and 1.4 percent weaker versus the pound at 87.54 pence. A euro
bought 1.3623 Swiss francs, from 1.3559 yesterday.  “We are closing out all of our long euro positions,”
 Fitzpatrick  and fellow analysts  Shyam Devani  and Alex Good said
today in an e-mailed note.  Moving averages are converging, suggesting a “sharp move”
is coming for the euro against the dollar, Fitzpatrick said in s
separate report.  Figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed on Oct. 22 that  bets  the euro will gain
against the dollar are at almost the highest level since October
2009, indicating the common currency’s rally may be poised for a
reversal.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  