-- Coca-Cola Femsa Begins Coffee-Dispenser Business in Mexico
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-10-26T06:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/coca-cola-femsa-begins-coffee-dispenser-business-in-mexico.html
Coca-Cola Femsa SAB , the largest
soft-drink bottler in Latin America, plans to install as many as
35,000 coffee machines in corner stores in Mexico under the
brand name Blak.  Coca-Cola Femsa  is competing with Switzerland’s  Nestle SA 
to sell coffee products such as cappuccino and latte, said
 Javier Astaburuaga , chief financial officer of parent company
 Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB , known as Femsa. The Mexico City-
based bottler is setting up the dispensers in cities where it
delivers  Coca-Cola Co.  products.  “We believe that in Mexico, even though Nestle has a very
strong presence in this segment, there are opportunities for us
because of our direct service to corner stores,” Astaburuaga
said in an interview in Monterrey late yesterday.  The incursion into the coffee market is part of  Coca-Cola
Femsa ’s push into non-carbonated drinks in cooperation with the
world’s biggest soft-drink maker. The Mexican company, which has
a 50-50 partnership with  Coca-Cola , said on Oct. 14 it signed an
agreement for exclusive talks to purchase Grupo Industrias
Lacteas, a maker of dairy products in Panama.  Coca-Cola Femsa  fell 1.5 percent to 95.19 pesos in Mexico
trading yesterday, paring its  gain this year  to 10.6 percent.  Jugos del Valle  In 2007,  Coca-Cola Femsa  purchased Mexico’s second-largest
juicemaker Jugos del Valle and has since increased sales to
Latin America in a partnership with the region’s bottlers.  Coca-Cola Femsa  began a pilot program for coffee last year
and will have 5,000 dispensers in Mexico City by December,
Astaburuaga said. That number could jump by five to seven times
over the next two to four years in  Coca-Cola Femsa ’s territories
in Mexico, he said. The company will determine after the first
quarter how quickly it will roll out the machines, he said.  “I anticipate it will be aggressive,” Astaburuaga said,
referring to the speed of expansion.  If the Blak coffee brand follows the Jugos del Valle model
and other  Coca-Cola  bottlers in Mexico join the partnership, the
number of dispensers may increase to 50,000 or 60,000, he said.  Astaburuaga declined to say how much sales the coffee
business may generate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  