-- Colombia Peso Falls to Weakest Since July on Additional Currency Measures
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-10-26T19:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/colombia-peso-falls-to-weakest-since-july-on-additional-currency-measures.html
Colombia’s peso fell to the weakest
level since July on bets the central bank will announce further
measures to ease the peso’s rally after President  Juan Manuel Santos  said the nation will take additional steps this week.  The peso dropped for a fourth day, declining 0.6 percent to
1,840.35 per U.S. dollar at 2:34 p.m. New York time, from
1,829.90 yesterday. It reached its weakest level since July 30.
The peso has jumped 11.1 percent this year, the best performance
among six major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Colombia has been studying measures “carefully” given the
“complicated” situation, Santos said Oct. 23, according to
comments posted on the  presidential website . Policy makers will
meet Oct. 29 for the central bank’s monthly monetary policy
meeting. Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  is also
president of the central bank’s board.  “The market is very expectant of what may be announced at
this Friday’s meeting,” said  Carlos Ramos , an analyst at
Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest brokerage. “Verbal
intervention has worked so far, but the market is now waiting
for specific measures.”  The central bank said Sept. 15 it will buy a minimum of $20
million daily for at least four months. The peso has dropped 2.7
percent since the daily dollar purchases began.  Banco de la Republica may announce “more aggressive”
dollar purchases as it faces political pressure to help ease the
peso’s appreciation, Bank of America Corp.’s economist  Alejandro Rivera  wrote in a report today.  While Banco de la Republica will likely leave its  overnight
lending rate  unchanged at 3 percent at the Oct. 29 meeting, “it
is increasingly likely that the bank’s next action will be a
rate cut,” Rivera wrote.  Interbolsa’s Ramos predicts central bankers will lower the
key lending rate this month by as much as 50 basis points. He
also predicts Banco de la Republica will limit borrowing abroad.  “A set of measures will probably be more effective than
just one,” said Ramos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  