-- Colombia President Says California's Pot Legalization Sends Wrong Message
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 2010-10-26T17:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/colombia-condemns-california-bid-to-legalize-pot-amid-battle-with-cartels.html
Colombia’s President  Juan Manuel Santos  criticized efforts in California to legalize marijuana
use while the Andean nation is investing millions of dollars and
losing lives in the fight against drug trafficking.  Santos, who last month called on U.S. President  Barack Obama  to support a regional strategy for curbing drug violence,
said governments worldwide need to act consistently.  “It’s confusing for our people to see that while we lose
lives and invest resources in the fight against drug
trafficking, in consuming countries initiatives are promoted,
like the California referendum, that would legalize production,
sale and consumption of marijuana,” Santos said at the opening
of a meeting of government officials from Central America and
Mexico in the coastal city of Cartagena.  Santos made his remarks ahead of a November referendum that
would ask California voters if they want to allow the
cultivation and sale of small amounts of marijuana. The
initiative would allow people 21 years and older to possess
as much as an ounce (28.3 grams) of the drug, and allow local
governments to regulate and tax sales even though it is illegal
under U.S. law.  “If we don’t act in a consistent manner on the issue, if
all we are doing is sending our citizens to prison while in
other latitudes they legalize the market, then we should ask
ourselves: Isn’t it time to revise the global strategy against
drugs?” Santos said.  Marijuana Market  The South American country isn’t known as a major supplier
of marijuana to the U.S. It’s the source of almost 90 percent of
the cocaine seized in the U.S. and 60 percent of heroin,
 according to  the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency.  Supporters of  the California initiative  say legalizing the
cultivation of marijuana for personal use would undermine drug
cartels by reducing demand for their product.  The U.S. Justice Department “strongly opposes”
California’s initiative, Attorney General  Eric Holder  said in an
Oct. 13 letter to former administrators of the DEA. The measure
would “complicate” U.S. drug enforcement efforts, he said.  Santos, a former defense minister, has pledged to step up
policies aimed at ending violence by drug-funded groups such as
the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known as FARC, that
are battling with the government.  Kidnapping  and homicides related to the nation’s drug trade
have fallen 92 percent and 45 percent respectively since 2002,
partly as a result of as much as $7 billion in U.S. anti-
narcotics and counterinsurgency aid.  Even as violence falls in Colombia, crime has increased in
Mexico and Central American countries where trafficking has
risen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  