-- Congo Wins Arbitration Case in Paris Against First Quantum, Minister Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2010-10-26T21:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/congo-wins-arbitration-case-against-first-quantum-minister-kabwelulu-says.html
The  Democratic Republic of Congo  won
an interim decision at the International Court of Arbitration in
Paris allowing the country to sell a project previously owned by
 First Quantum Minerals Ltd. , the mines minister said.  “We have won,”  Martin Kabwelulu  said in a mobile-phone
text message today from Kinshasa, the capital. He didn’t provide
further details.  First Quantum, based in Vancouver, said the tribunal didn’t
rule on the merits of an arbitration hearing about whether Congo
breached the terms of its contract with the company, which won’t
happen until early 2012. The tribunal refused the company’s
request to prevent the transfer of its assets to third parties,
First Quantum spokesman  Brian Cattell  said by phone.  “This is not a victory for anyone, it’s a very specific
ruling on a specific application for interim measures,” Cattell
said. “Any suggestion that DRC has won the arbitration is
completely untrue. The tribunal has not made a ruling on the
merits of the arbitration.”  First Quantum’s  stock  rose 34 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
C$86.65 as of 4:15 p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading.  The company lodged the complaint after Congo closed its
Kolwezi copper and cobalt project last year.  ‘Protective Measures’  “First Quantum applied for a number of interim protective
measures,” some of which it won today, Cattell said. “One of
the orders by the tribunal is not to engage in a media campaign
with respect to the arbitration and First Quantum will respect
that.”  The tribunal blocked a $12 billion judgment issued by the
Court of Kinshasa against First Quantum, Cattell said.  The cancellation of the Kolwezi deal, in which the World
Bank’s International Finance Corp. was a minority shareholder,
has hampered investment in mineral-rich Congo. On Oct. 14,
Barclays Capital called the Central African country a “maximum
risk” investment in copper and other base metals partly because
of the contract dispute. Congo ranked second-to-last out of 183
countries in the World Bank’s 2010 Doing Business guide in terms
of ease of doing business.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp.  bought the rights to the
Kolwezi concession in August and will manage it with Cerida
Global Ltd., the company of Israeli mining investor  Dan Gertler .
Under terms of the deal, ENRC bought 50.5 percent of Camrose
Resources Ltd., which owns copper and cobalt licenses in Congo,
through 64 percent of Africo Resources Ltd., 56 percent of
Comide Sprl and the entire share capital of Highwind Properties
Ltd., according to ENRC. Highwind has a 70 percent stake in
Metalkol Sarl, which owns a license to the Kolwezi Tailings
site, it said.  Second Case  First Quantum has a second arbitration case against Congo
at the International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes in Washington, DC, for the cancellation of two mining
titles held by First Quantum units Frontier SPRL and Cie Miniere
de Sakania SPRL.  The company is contesting the expropriation of the permits
and the possession of its assets and is pursuing damages. It’s
also suing a unit of ENRC for buying the Kolwezi project license
in a court in the British Virgin Islands.  Congo has 4 percent of the world’s copper and nearly a
third of its cobalt, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.
The country is recovering from more than 40 years of
dictatorship and war and its budget is heavily reliant on mining
revenue.  Mining is expected to make up half the country’s gross
domestic product by 2015, Kabwelulu said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net ;
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 