-- Germany's DAX Index Falls; Deutsche Bank, ThyssenKrupp Shares Lead Decline
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-26T15:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/continental-merck-puma-software-ag-solarworld-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated as
steelmakers declined after ArcelorMittal forecast a drop in
earnings and  Deutsche Bank AG  slid following UBS AG’s surprise
investment-banking loss.  ThyssenKrupp AG  and  Salzgitter AG , Germany’s biggest
steelmakers, fell more than 2 percent as larger rival
ArcelorMittal said fourth-quarter earnings may decline as much
as a third from the prior three months. Deutsche Bank, the
country’s biggest lender, fell 1.6 percent.  Software AG  rose 7.5
percent after increasing its outlook for the full year.  The benchmark DAX Index dropped 0.4 percent to 6,613.8 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt after earlier losing as much as
0.9 percent. The broader HDAX Index slipped 0.4 percent.  “Today’s news flow from ArcelorMittal and UBS prompted
some consolidation,” said  Stefano Girola , who helps oversee
about $4.2 billion at Banca Albertini Syz & Co. in Milan.
“Banks are still a question mark because of an uncertain
environment stemming from Basel III and volatility in investment
banking business,” he said, referring to the capital rules
agreed by regulators last month.  The DAX has surged 6.2 percent this month amid speculation
that the U.S. Federal Reserve will announce another round of
bond purchases at its November meeting in a bid to jumpstart the
economy. The tactic, known as quantitative easing, is likely to
spur global inflation while failing to deliver high growth or
lower U.S. unemployment,  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., said yesterday at
a reception in New York.  Steelmakers Slide  ThyssenKrupp and Salzgitter fell 2.7 percent to 26.40 euros
and 4.4 percent to 52.81 euros, respectively. ArcelorMittal, the
world’s biggest steelmaker, forecast a decline in fourth-quarter
earnings because of falling steel prices and rising costs.  Deutsche Bank slid 1.6 percent to 41.19 euros. UBS led
banking shares lower across Europe after Switzerland’s biggest
bank reported a third-quarter loss at its investment bank and a
quarter-on-quarter drop in revenue from fixed income, currencies
and commodities.  Singulus Technologies AG slumped 10 percent to 3.30 euros,
the biggest decline since January, after the maker of machines
that produce compact discs and DVDs posted a third-quarter
operating loss.  Dialog Semiconductor Plc  sank 7.6 percent to 12.60 euros,
the most in five months, as the German semiconductor maker
reported third-quarter net income of $13.3 million.  ‘Clearer Statement’  “The Figures are more or less in line, business is running
well,” DZ Bank AG said in a note. “What we have missed is a
clearer statement on the current situation of PMOLED design
wins,” the brokerage said, referring to passive matrix organic
light emitting diodes.  Software AG rallied 7.4 percent to 102.20 euros. Germany’s
second-largest software maker said third-quarter profit climbed
20 percent, driven by increased sales, and raised its outlook
for the year.  K+S AG , Europe’s biggest producer of potash, advanced 2.9
percent to 48.25 euros after analysts said rival Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. raised its prices. Equinet reiterated a
“buy” rating on K+S.  Solar Millennium AG surged 18 percent to 19.88 euros after
U.S. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  yesterday approved its
Blythe Solar Power Project in California. The project aims to be
the world’s largest power plant using heat from the sun to
generate electricity.  Aleo Solar AG  rose 3.4 percent to 16.80 euros. The solar
company said it will increase the total annual production
capacity of its three factories to 390 megawatts from 250
megawatts by the end of the coming year.  Puma AG  gained 1.5 percent to 254.25 euros. Europe’s
second-largest sporting-goods maker said third-quarter profit
increased 14 percent and raised its full-year forecasts for
sales and profitability.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 