-- Copper Drops on Demand Concern; Zinc Gains to Nine-Month High
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-10-26T08:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/copper-climbs-to-27-month-high-zinc-gains-to-nine-month-peak.html
Copper declined from the highest
level in more than 27 months as high prices discouraged Chinese
buying and the dollar rebounded. Zinc and lead climbed to the
highest prices in nine months.  Copper for three-month delivery fell as much as 0.7 percent
to $8,460 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange, and was at
$8,480 at 3:12 p.m. in Singapore. The metal used in construction
and household appliances earlier rose 0.4 percent to $8,554, the
highest level since July 2008. Futures in Shanghai ended the day
little changed after rising as much as 0.6 percent.  “Chinese consumers are very price-sensitive, so once the
price jumps, physical buying dries up and it’s really just hand-
to-mouth demand as they run down their own stockpiles,” said Li
Ye, an analyst at Minmetals Starfutures Co.  Shanghai’s copper market has over the past month been in
so-called contango, where metal for immediate delivery is
cheaper than longer-dated supplies, suggesting ample short-term
availability. Spot copper in Changjiang, Shanghai’s biggest cash
market, traded at a discount of about 1,070 yuan ($161) a ton to
futures today, compared with a premium of more than 1,000 yuan
in July, according to Bloomberg calculations.  In Chile, the largest copper producer, unions at Anglo
American Plc and Xstrata Plc’s Collahuasi mining unit called on
workers to reject a wage offer, setting the stage for a possible
strike at the world’s fourth-largest copper mine. Employees will
vote tomorrow on the proposal, the company said.  Beyond Fundamentals  “We have now moved way beyond the fundamentals” as the
recent rally has been driven by “a kind of manic momentum,”
said Zhu Shiwei, an analyst at Yong’an Futures Co. “Any
bullishness from supply-side concerns or expectations for strong
demand has already been priced into the market.”  The  dollar  rebounded after touching a one-week low against
a six-currency basket yesterday on speculation that increased
government bond purchases by the Federal Reserve will support
the U.S. economic recovery.  Zinc in London rose as much as 2.9 percent to $2,638.75 a
ton, the highest since January, as investors bet supply may lag
behind demand after Shenzhen Zhongjin Lingnan Nonfemet Co.,
China’s third-largest producer, suspended output at its biggest
smelter. The metal also rose to a nine-month high in Shanghai.  Shenzhen Zhongjin Lingnan suspended output at the Shaoguan
smelter on Oct. 21 after authorities found that excessive levels
of thallium were discharged by the plant into a river, according
to statement to the Shenzhen stock exchange the same day.  Lead in London gained as much as 1 percent to $2,610 a ton,
also the highest price since January. Aluminum rose 0.4 percent
to $2,382.25 a ton, nickel fell 0.6 percent to $23,430 a ton,
and tin lost 0.6 percent to $26,750 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 Gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  