-- U.S. Falls in Corruption Ranking as Crisis Hits Confidence
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-10-26T11:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/corruption-increases-in-u-s-as-financial-crisis-erodes-public-confidence.html
The U.S. fell in a global ranking of
corruption as concerns over financial regulatory oversight and
political campaign funding weigh on public confidence,
corruption watchdog group  Transparency International  said today.  The U.S. ranked 22nd on the list, down from 19th last year,
with a score of 7.1 out of 10, compared with 7.5 in 2009, the
Berlin-based group’s  Corruption Perceptions Index  showed. That’s
its lowest ranking since the index began in 1995. Denmark, New
Zealand and Singapore maintained top positions on the list with
9.3, showing low levels of corruption, while Afghanistan,
Myanmar and Somalia came last with scores as low as 1.1.  The aftermath of the financial crisis and the effects of
the decline on American homeowners have intensified skepticism
of public integrity and hurt the country’s ranking, said  Nancy Boswell , president of Transparency International-USA. She cited
foreclosure procedures, in which financial institutions employed
so-called robo-signers who pushed through hundreds of
repossessions a week without verifying documents.  “The drop is disturbing,” Boswell said in an interview by
phone from Washington. “The American public is concerned that
there is an integrity deficit here, that ethics isn’t as
foremost as it should be.”  Transparency International defines corruption as “the
abuse of entrusted power for private gain.”  While Boswell identified a “myriad of issues” that have
dented corruption perceptions in the U.S., she also pointed to a
flood of spending on political campaigns following a January
decision by the Supreme Court. That decision, Citizens United v.
 Federal Election Commission , struck down limits on corporate and
labor-union political expenditures.  ‘Absence of Transparency’  “The decision has contributed to what appears to be an
absence of transparency,” Boswell said.  This year’s index, which measures the perception of
corruption in the public sector, showed that 132 of the 180
nations reviewed scored below five on a 0-to-10 scale, with 10
indicating the least corrupt, Transparency said.  Greece fell seven spots to 71st place, ranking last among
the European Union’s 27 members. Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s disclosure a year ago that the budget deficit was
twice as large as the previous administration had claimed
prompted a European sovereign-debt crisis.  Italy also tumbled in the rankings, down four spots to 63rd
place. Italian politics were buffeted over the past year as
allies of Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  were put under
investigation for corruption. Three members of the government
resigned amid criminal probes, including Industry Minister
 Claudio Scajola , who stepped down May 4 after court documents
showed a builder who had been awarded government contracts
helped purchase the minister’s home in Rome.  Declining Scores  The Czech Republic, Hungary, Madagascar and Niger also saw
their scores decline on the index.  Corruption worldwide remains an impediment to growth as
governments spend more money on battling the financial crisis,
climate change and poverty, the report said. Policy makers must
make fighting corruption a part of these efforts, the group
said.  “These results signal that significantly greater efforts
must go into strengthening governance across the globe,”
Transparency International’s international head,  Huguette Labelle , said in a statement. She called on countries to
implement the United Nations Convention against Corruption.  The group’s research shows “little or no enforcement” of
the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ’s
anti-bribery convention among as many as 20 of 36 advanced
countries that signed the agreement, the report said.  Unstable Countries  Transparency International highlighted that unstable
countries with conflicts are often at the bottom of the list.
Afghanistan, with a score of 1.4, has faced a barrage of
corruption allegations under Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  and
his Cabinet. Nearly a quarter of the votes cast in last month’s
Afghan parliamentary election had to be scrapped.  Countries that improved in their rankings included Chile,
Kuwait, Qatar, Ecuador, Jamaica and Haiti, the group said.  The index has become a benchmark gauge of perceptions of a
country’s corruption, an assessment of risks for investors. It’s
an aggregate indicator that combines data from as many as 13
surveys and assessments from 10 independent institutions,
including country experts and business leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  