-- Cowboys Quarterback Romo Won't Have Shoulder Surgery, Will Miss 6-8 Weeks
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-26T20:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/cowboys-quarterback-romo-won-t-have-surgery-is-out-6-8-weeks-espn-says.html
Dallas Cowboys quarterback  Tony Romo 
won’t require surgery on his broken collarbone and will need six
to eight weeks of recovery time, leaving his return this season
in question.  Romo, 30, fractured his left clavicle in the second quarter
of last night’s 41-35 loss to the New York Giants when he was
driven to the ground by linebacker  Michael Boley  after throwing
a pass. Romo returned to the sideline for the second half with
his non-throwing arm in a sling.  Romo, a three-time Pro Bowl selection, had a CT scan today
that determined he won’t need surgery, the team said in a
statement.  The 1-5 Cowboys, off to their worst start since Jerry
Jones’s first year as owner in 1989, have 10 games left in the
regular season. It’s not known whether Romo will return before
the Cowboys end the season Jan. 2 in Philadelphia.  Backup  Jon Kitna  will replace Romo, who last season was the
only quarterback in the NFL to take every snap for his team.
Kitna, 38, threw two fourth-quarter touchdown passes yesterday
in his first appearance in an NFL game since Oct. 5, 2008.  “I am prepared to lead this football team for however many
weeks that is,” Kitna told reporters yesterday. “It is not
something that I am scared of. I wish that this opportunity
didn’t come because it’s bad for Tony, it’s bad for this
football team. But, it’s here and I have confidence in myself
and confidence in my teammates that we’ll get some things ironed
out.”  The Cowboys are in last place in their division and have
already matched their five losses from last season. The 1970
Cincinnati Bengals are the only NFL team to make the playoffs
after a 1-5 start.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  