-- Terra, Credit Agricole, Bank of America in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-26T12:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/credit-agricole-monsanto-bank-of-america-in-court-news.html
David Wormsley, the  Citigroup Inc. 
banker accused by Guy Hands of misleading him in the 2007
auction of  EMI Group Ltd. , testified that Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. founder would have trusted his advice at times.  Wormsley, 50, was called as a hostile witness yesterday by
Terra Firma, whose $8.3 billion suit against Citigroup is on
trial in federal court in Manhattan. Wormsley spent 25 minutes
on the stand before U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff sent the
nine-member jury home for the evening.  “There were situations in which Mr. Hands would have
trusted my word and advice,” Wormsley said under questioning
from David Boies, the lead lawyer for Hands and Terra Firma. “I
would always be as truthful and honest as I could be.”  Boies introduced a series of e-mails sent by Wormsley in
which, Wormsley testified, he was trying to strengthen the
relationship between London-Based Terra Firma and New York-based
Citigroup.  “I know it may seem strange to advise you how to handle
the banks, but I am incapable of not trying to get you the best
possible outcome,” Wormsley said in a November 2006 e-mail to
Hands.  Terra Firma claims Wormsley falsely told Hands in three
telephone calls on the weekend before a May 21, 2007, auction
that Cerberus Capital Management LP planned to submit a
competing bid for EMI, a 113-year-old music publishing and
recording company based in London. Instead, Cerberus had decided
not to bid, leaving Terra Firma without competition.  Hands, in testimony over four days that ended yesterday
morning, claimed that if he had known New York-based Cerberus
wasn’t bidding, Terra Firma, which paid $6.7 billion for EMI,
would have stayed out of the auction and negotiated a better
price. Citigroup lent more than $5 billion in the EMI deal.  Citigroup’s lawyers have tried to show that Terra Firma’s
bid was based on due diligence the firm conducted before the
auction, as well as conversations with EMI’s chief executive
officer and Terra Firma’s estimate of the company’s worth, and
not on any information passed along by Wormsley.  Wormsley will be back on the stand when the trial resumes
today. Ted Wells, a lawyer for Citigroup, will have a chance to
question Wormsley once Boies is finished with his examination.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  New Suits  Money Manager Starr Sued by Bank of America Over Debt  Money manager Kenneth Starr, who pleaded guilty in
September in a $59 million fraud case, was sued by  Bank of
America Corp.  over an unpaid $500,000 debt.  Bank of America NA, a unit of the  largest U.S. bank  by
assets, filed the lawsuit in New York state court in Manhattan
on Oct. 21. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank named the
money manager’s firm, Starr Investment Advisors LLC, as a co-
defendant.  “There is now immediately due and owing to the bank,” the
principal sum of $500,000, plus accrued interest and late fees
of about $12,000 through the filing date, according to the
complaint.  Starr, 66, pleaded guilty on Sept. 10 to three criminal
counts before U.S. Magistrate Judge Theodore Katz in Manhattan.
Starr, whose firm’s clients included heiress Rachel “Bunny”
Mellon and actors Sylvester Stallone and Wesley Snipes, told the
court he had stolen as much as $50 million.  He had faced 20 counts of wire fraud and one each of
securities fraud, money laundering and fraud by an investment
adviser. No sentencing date has been set.  Bank of America alleges Starr had guaranteed the revolving
line of credit extended to his firm in March and upon which it
defaulted in June. Starr was indicted by a federal grand jury on
June 10.  Flora Edwards, Starr’s criminal defense attorney, didn’t
return a voice-mail message seeking comment after regular
business hours.  The case is Bank of America NA v. Starr Investment Advisors
LLC, 651826-2010, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Starr, 10-cr-00520, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Connecticut, SEC Sue Southridge Capital for Fraud  Southridge Capital Management LLC was sued by Connecticut
over $26 million in fees charged investors based on what state
Attorney General Richard Blumenthal called false statements
about the value of assets.  The  investment firm , based in Ridgefield, Connecticut, also
was sued yesterday by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and accused of defrauding investors in hedge funds.  Southridge overvalued assets of funds it managed through
false financial statements to increase its fees illegally,
Blumenthal said in a statement. The firm acted as general
partner of the funds, providing advice and strategy, Blumenthal
said yesterday in a lawsuit in state court in Hartford filed on
behalf of Connecticut Banking Commissioner Howard F. Pitkin.  “Through false financial statements and other violations
of the funds’ private placement memoranda, SCM charged excessive
fees to the funds’ investors,” according to the state’s
complaint, “based on misleading and fraudulent valuations of
the assets SCM managed on behalf of the funds and their
investors.”  The state Banking Department subpoenaed Southridge Capital
in 2007 to investigate its operation of five funds that it
advises and manages, according to the complaint.  The funds named in the suit are Sovereign Partners LP,
Southridge Partners LP, Dominion Capital Fund Ltd., Dominion
Investment Fund  Ltd. and Southshore Capital Fund Ltd.   Southridge and Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hicks, who
also was sued, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  The Connecticut case is Pitkin v. Southridge Capital
Management, Connecticut Superior Court (Hartford). The federal
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Southridge Capital
Management, U.S. District Court, 3:10-cv-01685, District of
Connecticut (New Haven).  For more, click here.  Credit Agricole Sued in U.S. Over $70 Million of CDOs  Credit Agricole SA , France’s third-largest bank, was sued
for fraud in New York by investors alleging the lender tricked
them into buying $70.5 million worth of collateralized debt
obligations that were designed to fail.  Loreley Financing claimed in the lawsuit filed Oct. 22 in
New York State Supreme Court that Credit Agricole’s Calyon unit
allowed a hedge fund to pick low-quality assets for three CDOs
the fund could then bet against.  “Calyon defrauded plaintiffs during both the construction
and the dismantling of its business strategy,” the investors
said in the lawsuit. Calyon let the hedge fund “select weak and
poor quality collateral for at least two of the CDOs in which
plaintiffs invested.”  The investors were advised by German lender  IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG , which was sued by Credit Agricole in London in
July 2009 over an agreement that forced the Paris-based bank to
buy structured securities from an IKB investment vehicle during
the credit crisis. IKB almost collapsed before being bailed out
in 2007.  “IKB communicated to Calyon that the Loreley companies had
a low appetite for credit risk and no appetite for principal
loss,” according to the lawsuit.  The Loreley suit “is clearly related to our U.K. $1.675
billion high court 2009 lawsuit against IKB for fraud,” Credit
Agricole said in an e-mailed statement. “We are confident this
counter-action by IKB is without merit.”  The case is 650673/2010, Loreley Financing v. Credit
Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Supreme Court of the
State of New York.  West Virginia Sues Monsanto in Roundup Soybean Probe  Monsanto Co. , the world’s largest seed company, was sued by
West Virginia for allegedly refusing to cooperate with the state
attorney general’s investigation of the sale of soybeans that
can withstand Roundup weed killer.  West Virginia is looking into whether claims Monsanto makes
about its Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans are supported by test
results. Second-generation Roundup Ready 2 Yield plants are
priced significantly higher than the first-generation seeds,
Attorney General Darrell McGraw said yesterday in a  statement .  In its civil enforcement action, the state is seeking an
order barring Monsanto from selling products in West Virginia
until it complies with its subpoena.  “I want to ensure there is a fair marketplace for West
Virginia farmers,” McGraw said. “They need to know if it is
worth extra money to buy new products that may not live up to
the hype.”  St. Louis-based Monsanto said the attorney general’s office
won’t agree to a protective order related to the confidential
intellectual property information. The information sought is
similar to other legal claims that are covered by a protective
order, the company said.  “Agriculture is our only business at Monsanto, and we are
committed to the success of farmers,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement. “That’s why we introduce new products only
after we have thoroughly tested them and have the full
confidence -- backed by data -- that they will deliver on
farm.”  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Florida Foreclosures Delayed as Banks Resume Efforts  Banks are canceling foreclosure hearings and sales in
Florida, site of the third-highest foreclosure rate in the U.S.,
as  Bank of America Corp.  and  Ally Financial Inc.  said they’re
resuming efforts to seize homes.  Banks had called off about half of their foreclosure-
judgment hearings in three cities scheduled for this week and
more than 60 percent of their auctions set for yesterday in one
county, according to court records and personnel. Court
administrators said rules mandating notifications for homeowners
mean that foreclosures won’t resume in earnest for at least a
month.  Bank of America and Ally Financial’s GMAC Mortgage unit
said they were moving to complete pending foreclosures following
complaints that home seizures nationwide were based on faulty
documentation. Attorneys general in all 50 states, as well as
federal agencies including the U.S. Department of Justice, are
investigating.  GMAC said it is reviewing foreclosure cases that
potentially have defective affidavits in the 23 states that use
judicial proceedings for foreclosures, including Florida. If
there are problems, they will be fixed and the cases then
allowed to proceed, said Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for GMAC. Any
case going to foreclosure sale in non-judicial states will also
be reviewed, she said in an interview.  “It’s an ongoing process and we expect the majority will
be completed by the end of the year,” Proia said.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank by assets, has
completed a review of its foreclosure procedures and will
“shortly” begin resubmitting affidavits in judicial
foreclosure cases, spokesman Dan Frahm said in a statement
today.  “We are being very deliberate as we restart the affidavit
process with new steps and controls,” he said.  For more, click here.  Treasury Shielding Citigroup, Deletions Make FOIA Meaningless  The late Bloomberg News reporter Mark Pittman asked the
U.S. Treasury in January 2009 to identify $301 billion of
securities owned by  Citigroup Inc.  that the government had
agreed to  guarantee . He made the request on the grounds that
taxpayers ought to know how their money was being used.  More than 20 months later, after saying at least five times
that a response was imminent, Treasury officials responded with
560 pages of printed-out e-mails -- none of which Pittman
requested, Bloomberg’s Bob Ivry reports. They were so heavily
redacted that most of what’s left are everyday messages such as
“Did you just try to call me?” and “Monday will be a busy
day!”  None of the documents answers Pittman’s request for
“records sufficient to show the names of the relevant
securities” or the dates and terms of the guarantees. Even so,
the U.S. government considers the collection of e-mails a
partial response to an official request under the federal
 Freedom of Information Act , or FOIA. The Justice Department in
July  cited  an increase in such responses as evidence that “more
information is being released” under the law.  President Barack Obama vowed to usher in a new era of open
government. On Jan. 21, 2009, the day after his inauguration and
a week before Pittman submitted his FOIA request, Obama  directed 
agencies to “adopt a presumption in favor of disclosure, in
order to renew their commitment to the principles embodied in
FOIA.”  The saga of Pittman’s request shows that the promise of
transparency has its limits when it comes to the government’s
intervention in the financial industry, which at its peak
reached $12.8 trillion in commitments. From the 2008 Bear
Stearns Cos. rescue to the Federal Reserve’s policy of
quantitative easing in 2010, the Obama administration has
delayed disclosures and defended its right to secrecy in court,
said Tom Fitton, president of  Judicial Watch Inc. , which
describes itself as a conservative foundation.  Neither Citigroup nor the Treasury Department would discuss
which redactions, if any, the bank sought on Pittman’s request.
Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for the bank, declined to comment.  “We have no obligation to explain how much of Citi’s
recommendations we accepted and in what ways we decided to
differ,” Steven Adamske, a Treasury spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  For more, click here.  Bank of America Says Lombardy Agreed to Swaps Contract  Bank of America Corp.  said the region of Lombardy agreed to
all the terms of a $1 billion swap, including covering some of
the lender’s potential losses, in a contract that the Italian
municipality says is unfair.  Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, which is suing
Lombardy, met its obligations and isn’t liable for costs
incurred by the region, the bank said in papers filed at a
London court on Oct. 6. Merrill Lynch and  UBS AG , in separate
lawsuits, asked the court in July to confirm that derivatives
contracts with the Italian region are valid. Officials at Bank
of America declined to comment yesterday.  Lombardy “was acting for its own account and had made its
own independent decisions to enter the transaction and as to
whether the transaction was appropriate or proper for it based
upon its own judgment,” Merrill Lynch said in the lawsuit.  The region is seeking 95.3 million euros ($133 million) in
damages from Bank of America and UBS, alleging that contracts
with the banks are unfair and invalid, Bank of America said in
the papers detailing its claim.  Officials at Lombardy, home to Italy’s financial capital
Milan, and UBS weren’t immediately available to comment.  The case centers on a 2002 derivatives agreement between
the banks and the region that changed the way Lombardy would
repay a $1 billion bond. Under the deal, Lombardy would repay
the bond in installments over a period of time instead of making
a so-called bullet repayment when the bond matured. The banks
also set up a fund that would invest the city’s payments in
securities such as bonds before paying off the 30-year bond.  Lombardy hired Italian lawyers in June to prepare a civil
suit against the firms. The banks pre-empted an Italian filing
by submitting a claim in London.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Alstom Asks Court to Block Eurostar-Siemens Contract  Alstom SA  asked a London judge to block Eurostar Group Ltd.
from buying trains from  Siemens AG , saying that Alstom would
suffer “serious and irreparable harm,” if the German company
is allowed to win the bid.  Alstom’s rights to equal treatment, transparency and non-
discrimination under European Union rules were violated by
Eurostar’s bidding process, Sarah Hannaford, a lawyer for
Levallois-Perret, France-based Alstom, told Justice Geoffrey Vos
yesterday.  Eurostar  said on Oct. 7 it would buy 10 trains in a contract
worth 600 million euros ($830 million) from Siemens to add
routes and fend off competition from Germany’s  Deutsche Bahn AG ,
which plans services via the tunnel from 2013.  Alstom “will lose a significant competitive advantage in
the developing European market for very high-speed trains” if
Siemens wins the contract, Hannaford said in written arguments  Alstom’s complaint also cites the choice of units with
multiple power sources as a breach of the tunnel’s safety rules.
Current rules say that only trains with power provided by
locomotives at the front or back of the train can go through the
tunnel, Hannaford said in a court document.  Eurostar officials referred to an Oct. 20 press release
that said “the arguments raised by Alstom in support of its
challenge are without foundation.”  “Siemens submitted a bid that was significantly better
than that of Alstom,” the Anglo-French company, which is
controlled by French state rail operator SNCF, said in an e-mail
Oct. 20.  The case, Alstom Transport v. Eurostar International Ltd.,
is being heard at the High Court in London. Lawyers for Siemens
and Eurostar will make their cases later in the hearing, which
is scheduled to last for two days.  Ex-Siemens Labor Leader Partly Wins Appeal in Corruption Case  Germany’s top criminal court partly overturned the
conviction of a former labor leader at  Siemens AG  who was caught
up in a corruption scandal at the company.  Wilhelm Schelsky, former head of the AUB Association of
Independent Employees, had a count of breach of trust set aside,
the Federal Court of Justice in Karlsruhe said in a statement.
Fraud and tax evasion convictions against Schelsky were upheld,
the court said.  The case was part of a corruption scandal over bribes to
customers and labor unions that had roiled Siemens, Europe’s
biggest engineering company, for several years. Schelsky and
former management board member Johannes Feldmayer were convicted
over payments intended to help make AUB an “employer friendly”
labor group at the Munich-based company.  The trial court was wrong to convict Schelsky of aiding a
breach of trust by inducing people at the company to use 30.3
million euros ($42.5 million) in Siemens funds to finance AUB,
the top court said. While his actions violated labor laws, these
rules weren’t intended to protect Siemens’s assets, according to
the appeals judges.  Schelsky will receive a new sentencing hearing in the case.
Schelsky is on parole after serving about two thirds of a 4 1/2
year prison sentence.  Feldmayer had received a suspended prison term of two
years, a 28,800 euro-fine and was ordered to pay 200,000 euros
to charity as a condition for parole.  The case is BGH, 1 StR 220/09.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  UniCredit to Pay Municipality 651,632 Euros After Swap Ruling  UniCredit SpA  must return 651,632 euros ($914,000) plus
interest to the Italian city of Rimini after a court ruled a
swap contract between them was void.  A Rimini court ruled the Italian contract was invalid
because it was signed away from UniCredit’s offices, the city
said in a statement yesterday. The municipality, which had swaps
on about 20 million euros of debt, couldn’t be classified as a
professional investor, a requirement for agreeing to such
transactions away from the lender’s premises, according to the
statement. UniCredit officials declined to comment yesterday.  The city had made about 150,000 euros on three interest-
rate swaps signed in 2001 and 2003. The bets turned sour after
2005, leading to losses for the city, the  city’s documents  show.
Rimini, a town of about 142,000, lost a further 347,556 euros on
the swaps in the second half of 2009 and first half of 2010,
monies that weren’t exchanged after the city and UniCredit
agreed to halt payments, the city said. The city’s latest mark-
to-market loss on the swaps totaled 505,112 euros, an amount
that won’t now be paid, the city said.  Italian municipalities face losses of about 1.1 billion
euros on derivative contracts with the country’s banks,
outstripping gains by 11 times, Bank of Italy data show. A 2001
law in Italy stipulated that local authorities could buy swaps
only if the transactions would improve the towns’ finances.
Italy banned local governments from signing new derivative
contracts in mid-2008.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 