-- Oil Snaps Three-Day Gain on Strengthening Dollar, Rising Crude Stockpiles
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-10-27T03:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/crude-oil-is-little-changed-as-consumer-confidence-climbs-dollar-rebounds.html
Oil declined for the first time in
four days as a strengthening dollar curbed investor demand for
raw materials and traders bet stockpiles in the U.S. are rising.  Futures dropped as much as 0.6 percent as the dollar
climbed against all but one of its 16 most-traded peers. An
Energy Department report today may show crude  inventories
increased  by 1 million barrels last week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts. The American Petroleum
Institute said yesterday stockpiles surged 6.43 million barrels.  “Oil continues to react to dollar movements,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “With seasonal maintenance and outages
at refineries, I’d expect to see some build in crude
stockpiles.”  The December contract fell as much as 47 cents to $82.08 in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, and was
at $82.10 at 11:18 a.m. Singapore time. Yesterday it added 3
cents to $82.55. Futures are up 3.6 percent this year.  The dollar advanced after the U.S. Conference Board said
yesterday consumer confidence climbed in October from a seven-
month low. The greenback rose 0.3 percent versus the euro and
the yen.  The Energy Department report at 10:30 a.m. in Washington
today may show gasoline stockpiles  rose  by 625,000 barrels last
week, according to the Bloomberg News survey. The industry-
funded API reported yesterday that supplies of the motor fuel
slipped 1.81 million barrels.  Gasoline Demand  U.S. gasoline demand decreased 1.7 percent last week, the
largest week-to-week slide since Sept. 10, MasterCard Inc. said
in its SpendingPulse report. Motorists bought an average 9.1
million barrels of the fuel a day in the week ended Oct. 22, the
second-biggest payments network company said.  Inventories of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, slid 1.5 million barrels, the Bloomberg
News survey shows. They climbed 818,000 barrels according to
yesterday’s API report.  “We need a series of draws, especially in distillates and
crude, in order to see the market tightening,” National
Australia Bank’s Westmore said by telephone today. “Given the
size of distillate stocks at the moment, I’d expect refinery
runs to continue being weak.”  Protests Easing  Crude also dropped as protests by French oil industry
workers against pension reforms eased. Industrial action across
France forced nine of 11 refineries to shut, causing fuel
shortages and disrupting exports to foreign markets.  A quarter of France’s refinery workers agreed to go back to
work after the French Senate passed President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
pension bill, paving the way for the minimum retirement age to
increase to 62 from 60. The bill goes for a final vote at the
National Assembly today.  Brent crude for December settlement was at $83.25 a barrel,
down 41 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The contract advanced 12 cents to $83.66 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  