-- Oil Declines as Forecast Gain in U.S. Inventories Signals Slowing Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-10-26T08:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/crude-oil-declines-on-dollar-rebound-forecast-gain-in-u-s-inventories.html
Oil declined in New York on
speculation slowing fuel demand will cause inventories to rise
in the U.S., the world’s largest crude consumer.  Futures dropped as much as 0.6 percent as the dollar
advanced, limiting the investment appeal of commodities. An
Energy Department report tomorrow may show crude inventories
rose 1.5 million barrels last week, according to a Bloomberg
News analyst survey.  “If you look at the inventory expectations, crude supplies
should climb, so fundamentally there’s not much support,” said
 Serene Lim , an energy and commodity strategist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “The market will
be determined by the price moves in the dollar.”  Oil for December delivery fell as much as 63 cents to
$81.89 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and was at $81.96 at 8:59 a.m. London time. Brent crude
for December settlement traded at $83.07 a barrel, down 47
cents, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  U.S. gasoline supplies probably climbed by 625,000 barrels
last week, according to the estimates in the Bloomberg survey.
Supplies of distillate fuel  probably decreased  for a fifth week
as distributors took deliveries before winter and exports to
Europe increased, the Bloomberg News survey shows.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against six
major currencies, rose 0.3 percent. The U.S. currency gained 0.5
percent to 81.17 yen and was up 0.2 percent against the euro at
$1.3942.  Workers at three French oil refineries voted to return to
work as a contested pension bill neared parliamentary approval
and the government warned that fuel shortages were hurting the
economy. The nation’s eight remaining active plants are either
on strike or shut because of a lack of crude.  “The oil market might be taking a bit of a breather,”
said ANZ’s Lim. “I doubt the strikes had a huge effect overall
on the market, but it was more a psychological impact from the
shutdowns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  