-- Czech Premier Declares `Legislative Emergency' to Speed Up Deficit Bills
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-10-27T11:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/czech-government-seeks-faster-budget-cuts-after-opposition-gains-senate.html
Czech Prime Minister  Petr Necas 
wants the speaker of parliament to declare a “legislative
emergency” after the opposition won control of the Senate and
threatened to veto  deficit -cutting measures.  Necas said he will use the procedure to speed up passage of
four bills, including measures to cut tax breaks and subsidies
on some savings plans, that must be approved by year end to meet
2011 budget targets. The opposition Social Democrats, who won a
majority in the upper house of parliament last weekend, pledged
to veto legislation they consider “restrictive.”  “If those laws aren’t effective from January, there is a
risk of significant economic damage to the state, a threat to
approval of the state budget with all related consequences, such
as the risk of a rating downgrade,” Necas, 45, told reporters
late yesterday in Prague.  The three-party governing coalition, which has enough seats
in the lower house to override a Senate veto, plans to halve the
fiscal  deficit  to less than 3 percent of  gross domestic product 
by 2013. Emergency rules, normally used during natural disasters
such as floods, allow parliament to approve legislation after a
single reading instead of three.  Procedural ‘Abuse’  Necas asked parliamentary speaker  Miroslava Nemcova , a
member of his party, to declare a legislative emergency for the
period Nov. 1-5, when he will seek to pass four deficit-cutting
bills. Social Democrats in the lower house yesterday blocked a
motion to consider the bills on a fast-track basis.  The Social Democrats plan to appeal at the Constitutional
Court against the “abuse of the state of legislative
emergency” procedure to push through a law introducing a tax on
subsidies in savings for housing, Bohuslav Sobotka, the party’s
deputy chairman, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Lawmakers today started the first reading of the 2011
budget which aims to narrow the budget gap to 4.6 percent of GDP
from an estimated 5.3 percent this year.  The Social Democrats won 12 Senate races in elections Oct.
22-23, giving them 41 seats in the 81-member upper house. The
chamber had been controlled by Necas’s coalition.  The election result suggests “fiscal consolidation in the
Czech Republic will now likely be delayed and consequently we
could see some koruna weakness in the near term,” strategists
at BNP Paribas SA in London said in a report released yesterday.  Koruna Effect  The government’s plan to narrow the deficit has helped the
koruna strengthen 4.1 percent against the euro since the May 28-
29 general elections, making it the third-best performing
currency in the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Czech Republic’s A debt rating may be raised if the
government follows through on pledges to reduce spending,
including an overhaul of the pension system, Standard & Poor’s
said Aug. 10. S&P revised its outlook on the rating to
“positive” from “stable.”  The koruna weakened 0.6 percent against the euro yesterday,
the first drop in three days, on concerns that spending cuts may
be delayed. The Czech currency advanced 0.2 percent to 24.595
per euro as of 12:55 p.m. in Prague today, the best performance
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  