-- Dangote Cement, Nigeria's Biggest, to Sell $3.5 Billion Stock Over 2 Years
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-10-26T14:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/dangote-cement-lists-shares-on-nigerian-stock-exchange-at-0-89-cents-each.html
Dangote Cement Plc , Africa’s biggest
producer of the material by capacity that listed in Nigeria
today, will sell as much as $3.5 billion in shares in public
offerings over two years, Afrinvest (West Africa) Ltd. said.  Dangote will sell 25 percent of its stock in total and the
 Nigerian Stock Exchange  has given approval for the quantity of
shares to be sold over 24 months, Afrinvest Managing Director
 Godwin Obaseki  told reporters in Lagos today.  Dangote listed 15.5 billion ordinary shares at 135 naira
each today, giving the company a market value of 2.09 trillion
naira ($13.8 billion) and making it the biggest on the  West
African nation’s bourse , overtaking  Nigeria Breweries Plc .  All demand for stock, including an initial 100 million on
sale today, was met at 135 naira, Obaseki said. Trading took
place for five minutes before the exchange closed at 1 p.m. in
Lagos, with  196 million shares changing hands , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Afrinvest introduced the shares to the
West African nation’s bourse.  Dangote Cement’s share sale would be the biggest in Africa,
surpassing the $903 million raised by Maroc Telecom in 2004 and
$812 million by  Safaricom Ltd. , a Kenyan mobile-network
operator, in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company plans to raise capacity more than fivefold by 2015 to
46.2 million tons through investment in other African countries
and Nigeria as the continent’s nations build roads, houses,
bridges and railways, creating demand for the building material.
Dangote has $2 billion to raise capacity, Chairman Aliko Dangote
said in a recorded interview broadcast on CNBC Africa today.  Demand  In Nigeria, the continent’s most populous country and top
oil producer, demand is said to grow an average 10 percent
annually, Lagos-based Access Bank Plc wrote in a May report.  The  Nigerian Stock Exchange’s  requires that a minimum of 25
percent of the securities are available for trading, Oluwakemi
Owonubi, head of research at Lagos-based Vetiva Capital
Management Ltd., said in an interview today. Dangote is 96
percent owned by  Dangote Group , which is controlled by Aliko
Dangote, a Nigerian billionaire.  Dangote Cement will start selling the shares in about 18
months and will first sell American depositary receipts, the 53-
year-old chairman said in a speech in Lagos today. The shares
sold today are those that will continue to trade until the
offerings are concluded, he said.  ‘Buy’ Rating  Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc , the Nigerian unit of Standard Bank
Group Ltd. initiated coverage of Dangote Cement with a “buy”
recommendation and a 12-month price estimate of 170.50 naira per
share, analyst including  Adenrele Adesina  wrote in an e-mailed
note to clients.  “Dangote Cement is cheaply priced, trading on a 2012
earnings multiple of 7.9 times versus our universe of Nigerian
cement companies, which trade at 9 times,” the analysts wrote.  Dangote reported a 67 percent increase in profit for the
nine months through September to 75.3 billion naira ($495
million) on Oct. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 