-- De Niro Art Dealer Heads to Trial as Salander Remains at Rikers
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/de-niro-art-dealer-heads-to-trial-as-salander-languishes-at-rikers-island.html
Leigh Morse, an American art dealer
accused of stealing from actor  Robert De Niro , is headed to
trial.  New York State Supreme Court Judge Michael Obus scheduled
the trial of the former Salander-O’Reilly Galleries director to
start in late January, Obus said in court this month. Morse, 54,
pleaded not guilty to grand larceny and scheming to defraud when
she was arrested on July 14, 2009.  The charges are connected in part to paintings by Robert De
Niro Sr., who died in 1993 of prostate cancer on his 71st
birthday. His son, the actor and entrepreneur, controls his
estate.  “It would be highly likely in a trial of Leigh Morse that
Robert De Niro would be a witness,” said Charles Ross, a
criminal lawyer who represented gallery proprietor  Lawrence B. Salander  and is familiar with the Morse case.  Morse declined to comment when reached by phone. A
spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney  Cyrus R. Vance  Jr.
and spokesman for De Niro, 67, declined comment. Lawyers for the
actor and Morse didn’t return calls.  In March 2009, Steven Harvey, another former director,
pleaded guilty to falsifying business records. He agreed to make
about $500,000 of restitution. A year later, Salander pleaded
guilty to fraud and grand larceny and was ordered to pay victims
more than $100 million. He paid nothing and was sentenced to six
to 18 years in prison.  Last week, Salander was moved to another facility on Rikers
Island, where he has been incarcerated for three months while
awaiting transfer to a state prison because of paperwork issues,
said Stephen Morello, a New York City Correction Department
spokesman.  Morse continues to sell art, from her fifth-floor gallery
off Madison Avenue. She joined Salander-O’Reilly in 1995 and
worked primarily with estates of 20th-Century American artists.
In about 2002, Salander began to shift the emphasis from
American to European Renaissance-era art, which he said offered
uncommon value.  The change roughly coincided with Salander’s spending spree
and moving Salander-O’Reilly to a neo-Italian Renaissance
mansion he rented for $154,000 a month.  In May 2007, with the gallery in debt and teetering on
insolvency, Morse sold three De Niro Sr. paintings to San
Francisco’s Hackett-Freedman Gallery for $77,000. Two were owned
by the actor, according to court papers. The $77,000 was wired
to her personal bank account. The prosecution said she
orchestrated it without De Niro’s knowledge and was entitled
only to a fraction of the sum as a commission.  Morse’s lawyer,  Andrew Lankler , said in legal documents
that Salander directed that proceeds from the sales be paid to
her because Salander-O’Reilly owed her money.  Lankler conceded the structure “may have violated civil
and ethical rules regarding how a fiduciary should handle client
funds,” but that “does not, per se, establish criminal
intent.”  Prosecutors say Morse sold other consignors’ work at prices
below agreed-upon minimums and didn’t tell them. Morse
“prevented the estates from demanding payment for those sales
or the ability to make an informed decision about removing their
remaining works from the gallery,” according to a prosecution
filing.  Lankler countered that Morse, with an annual salary of
$125,000, was a sales person and not responsible for keeping
track of art. She wasn’t aware of “the over-arching Ponzi
scheme orchestrated by Lawrence Salander,” he wrote.  She left in August 2007, three months before the gallery
filed for bankruptcy. She hadn’t been paid for commissions or
expenses for several months and was owed hundreds of thousands
of dollars, she said in a statement to prosecutors.  Salander-O’Reilly extensively promoted the art of De Niro,
Sr., mounting at least five exhibits of his work from 1995 to
2004 and publishing a 208-page book about him.  In the preface, Salander called the actor a friend and the
father’s bright, expressionist paintings “among the (20th)
century’s highest achievements.”  Lawyers for the actor spent nearly two years in U.S.
Bankruptcy court fighting to recover De Niro paintings consigned
to the gallery. The actor was able to retrieve them in a
settlement that included paying $14,000 to the bankrupt gallery,
which could eventually go to creditors.  De Niro displays his father’s art at New York’s  Tribeca
Grill , one of the restaurants he co-owns. In March, he traveled
to Nice, France, for a De Niro Sr. exhibition.  “I’m not an authority on my father but I knew he was a
great artist,” De Niro said at a news conference at the Matisse
Museum, according to  CBS News video . “It’s very important to
continue his legacy.”  The criminal case is People v. Morse and People v.
Salander, 09-03581, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 