-- Default Swaps Widest to Turkey in Year as Bond Sales Jump: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-27T14:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/default-swaps-widest-to-turkey-in-year-as-bond-sales-jump-russia-credit.html
The  cost  of protecting Russian bonds
against nonpayment is climbing to the highest in a year relative
to Turkey as the biggest increase in bond sales since the credit
crisis and slower economic growth lead investors to hedge risk.  Credit-default swaps for Russia cost 10 basis points more
than equivalent five-year contracts for Turkey, the widest gap
since Oct. 2, 2009, according to prices from CMA. At 143 basis
points, Russian swaps are also higher than contracts for Brazil,
Colombia and the Philippines, all ranked as riskier credits by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government sold in April
its first international bonds since Russia defaulted in 1998,
paving the way for companies to issue almost six times more
foreign-currency debt than Turkish corporate borrowers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The world’s largest
energy exporting economy grew 5.2 percent in the second quarter,
compared with 10.2 percent for Turkey, government figures show.  “In Turkey issuance isn’t really a factor whereas it’s
picked up in Russia and some buyers of debt hedge their
purchases through the sovereign CDS,”  Nick Chamie , the global
head of emerging markets at Royal Bank of Canada Plc, said in an
interview from Toronto yesterday. “When it comes to Russia
specifically there is certainly a lack of optimism and growth
momentum compared with other emerging markets.”  Record-Low Rates  Record-low interest rates worldwide have spurred Russian
companies to sell $12.1 billion of international bonds since the
government issued its first Eurobonds in 11 years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra  yield   investors demand  to
hold Russian debt rather than U.S. Treasuries is 41 basis points
below the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month
high of 105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Companies in Turkey, which Moody’s rates Ba2, or two steps
lower than Russia, raised $2.2 billion since April.  OAO Russian Railways, the Moscow-based rail monopoly,
raised $1.5 billion in March in its debut foreign bond sale, and
 OAO Rushydro , the biggest producer of renewable energy, also
based in Moscow, issued 20 billion rubles this month.  OAO
Sberbank , Russia’s largest lender, sold $2.75 billion of
securities in June and July in its first foreign sale since
2008.  Investors use sovereign credit-default swaps as a way to
hedge their risk because 71 percent of the bonds sold are from
companies majority owned by the government, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘Tool of Choice’  “Russian sovereign credit-default swaps are the hedging
tool of choice for investors in corporate bonds,”  Alvin Ying ,
an emerging-markets credit analyst at UBS AG, said in a phone
interview from London yesterday. “Going forward Russia also has
a lot of issuance in the pipeline whereas Turkey’s issuance has
been much lower.”  OAO Gazprom , the world’s biggest natural gas producer, will
sell its first international bonds in more than a year by the
end of 2010, Yana Kolosovskaya, the company’s head of loans and
guarantees in Moscow, said last month. Moscow-based  OAO Lukoil ,
Russia’s largest independent oil producer, will issue dollar-
denominated bonds, and ZAO Alrosa, the nation’s diamond
monopoly, based in Mirny, is organizing investor meetings to
sell dollar bonds, people with knowledge of the plans said.  Sberbank in Moscow plans to sell at least 200 million Swiss
francs ($204 million) of four-year bonds, people with knowledge
of the transaction said yesterday.  Index Hedge  While Brazil’s $20 billion of corporate bond sales in the
past six months and South Korea’s $13.3 billion top the amount
of Russian debt listed on Bloomberg, Russia makes up the biggest
proportion of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s benchmark EMBI Global
Index, boosting the demand for contracts to hedge, said  Luis Costa , an emerging-markets credit analyst at Citigroup Inc.  “It’s not so much the amount of debt that has been issued
but rather the percentage allocation in the main emerging market
corporate indices,” Costa said in a phone interview from London
yesterday. “Russia CDS always tend to trade a little heavier
than the rest for this reason.”  Russia credit-default swaps are the highest of all the
emerging markets included in the Group of 20, with five-year
contracts trading 43 basis points above Brazil’s and 63 more
than Korea’s, according to CMA.  Russia default swaps dropped 42 basis points this year
while Turkish  contracts  declined 50 to 133, CMA data show.  Yield Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 204 basis points
today, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ indexes.  The difference compares with 130 for debt of similarly
rated Mexico and 170 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower
at Baa3 by Moody’s. Dollar debt from Colombia, whose Ba1 rating
from Moody’s ranks it three steps below Russia, has an average
yield spread of 141, and the Philippines, rated five levels
lower at Ba3, is at 160. The extra yield demanded for Turkish
debt is 168 basis points.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose for the
tenth straight trading day, the longest rising streak since they
were issued in April, sliding 4 basis points to 4.43 percent.
The ruble weakened 0.9 percent to 30.65 per dollar by the 5 p.m.
close of trading in Moscow, the weakest in a week.  Turkish credit-default swaps have been declining on
speculation the country’s debt rating will be upgraded, Costa
said. Moody’s raised the outlook on Turkey’s local and foreign-
currency bond ratings to positive from stable on Oct. 5, citing
the economic growth and improved debt management.  Corruption  “The outlook for the Russian sovereign is stable and no
one is expecting anything for Russia,” Costa said. “Turkey’s
ratings in contrast have been lagging so the CDS reflects that
optimism of an upgrade some time soon.”  Turkey’s government expects the economy to expand 6.8
percent this year as record-low interest rates fuel domestic
consumption. The International Monetary Fund forecast 7.8
percent growth in 2010 in its World Economic Outlook report on
Oct. 6.  Growth in Russia is likely to be about 4 percent, according
to the government and the Washington-based IMF.  Russia sold $5.5 billion of dollar bonds in April to help
plug a budget deficit the Finance Ministry forecasts will be 5.3
percent this year. The Turkish government, which expects a
budget shortfall of 5 percent, issued $5 billion of foreign debt
in 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  The perception of corruption in Russia is worsening,
according to business people and analysts interviewed by Berlin-
based Transparency International. Russia rose to become the 24th
most corrupt country in the world, with a worse reputation than
Yemen and Zimbabwe, according to the organization’s Corruption
Index 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 