-- Deutsche Bank Will Post Quarterly Loss on Postbank Writedown, Analysts Say
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-10-26T15:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/deutsche-bank-will-post-quarterly-loss-on-postbank-writedown-analysts-say.html
Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest
bank, will report a third-quarter loss after writing down the
value of its existing stake in  Deutsche Postbank AG .  The net loss may total 1.52 billion euros ($2.11 billion),
compared with net income of 1.38 billion euros a year earlier,
according to the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank said on Sept. 21 that it will book a charge
of 2.3 billion euros related to Postbank, leading to a loss in
the quarter. Excluding the impairment, net income will likely be
“significantly below” the year-earlier level, it said.  The lender this month completed a record 10.2 billion-euro
share sale to fund the Postbank takeover and boost capital.
Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said on Sept. 30 that
third-quarter sales and trading revenue matched last year’s
level after a rebound in September.  Deutsche Bank is scheduled to publish  earnings  tomorrow
before the German stock market opens. Following is a table of
the average third-quarter estimates, year-earlier figures and
results from the previous quarter, as well as the number of
analysts surveyed. The subsequent tables show estimates by
division. The figures are in millions of euros.  The following companies provided some figures for the
survey: Citigroup, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Bernstein,
WestLB, KBW, Nomura, LBBW, Macquarie, Equinet, Merck Finck,
Kepler, DZ Bank, Helvea, Canaccord Genuity, Commerzbank, Credit
Suisse, Exane BNP Paribas, UniCredit, UBS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  