-- Deutsche Bank Warned Client Over Citigroup Investment, Lawyer Tells Court
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-10-26T08:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/deutsche-bank-warned-client-over-citigroup-investment-lawyer-tells-court.html
Deutsche Bank AG , which is suing a
former client for $1.8 million that he failed to pay back after
incurring losses on investments tied to  Citigroup Inc . shares,
had cautioned him about the bets, the German bank’s lawyer told
a Singapore court today.  Chang Tse Wen , a Taiwanese scientist who invented the
Xolair asthma drug, lost money because of his own investment
decisions, the lawyer Ang Cheng Hock said in presenting Deutsche
Bank’s claim for the amount outstanding on Chang’s account.  Chang, 62, is seeking $49 million from Deutsche Bank in a
countersuit, claiming he was induced to open his first private
banking account in August 2007, according to his lawyer
Muralidharan Pillai. The bank was negligent in its advice and
made fraudulent misrepresentations, Chang claimed.  The scientist “entrusted his first ever windfall of
monetary wealth” to the bank which had promised tailor-made
financial advice, Pillai said in the counterclaim. Chang
received $118 million in 2007 after Genentech Inc. acquired
Tanox Inc., the company he founded, for $919 million.  “If I had known that I would not receive the type or level
of service I was promised by Deutsche Bank, I would not have
opened an account with them,” Chang said in a statement today.  Kathryn Hanes , a Singapore-based spokeswoman for Deutsche
Bank, said the allegations made by Chang are without merit.  “The bank conducted itself properly throughout its
relationship with the customer and acted entirely in accordance
with its rights,” she said today.  Chang told the bank that he had neither the experience nor
time to manage investments and considered himself a conservative
investor, according to his lawyer.  The former client was a “sophisticated man” who ignored
the advice of his banker to diversify his investments from a
product which committed him to buying shares of Citigroup at a
set price for a specified period, according to Ang’s opening
statement.  The case is Deutsche Bank AG v Chang Tse Wen S731/2009 in
the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  