-- Diageo Plans to Invest $158 Million to Grow Its `Footprint' Across Africa
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-10-26T12:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/diageo-plans-to-invest-158-million-to-grow-its-footprint-across-africa.html
Diageo Plc , the maker of Guinness
stout and Smirnoff vodka, said it will invest 100 million pounds
($158 million) to expand in Africa in 2011 as the region’s
growth helps compensate for slowing sales in Europe and the U.S.  “There’s no doubt Africa is becoming a bigger footprint in
Diageo going forward,”  David Gosnell , president of global
supply and procurement, said in an interview in London
yesterday. Diageo is present in seven African countries and will
expand into “new areas,” he said, without being specific.  Africa  was among the liquor maker’s fastest growing regions
in the last financial year, with net sales growing 10 percent,
excluding acquisitions. The continent represents 13 percent of
Diageo’s total annual revenue, Gosnell said, and consumes about
50 percent of its beer production. The maker of Johnnie Walker
whiskey is cutting costs and shutting facilities in Europe and
the U.S. as growth slows in developed markets.  The acquisition of a majority stake in Tanzania’s Serengeti
Breweries Ltd. by the company’s Kenyan unit, East African
Breweries Ltd., will allow further expansion across eastern
Africa, Gosnell said. The transaction was completed today.  Kenya and Nigeria will be the subject of the greatest
increase in spending, according to Gosnell. “I see Nigeria
being a big investment,” the executive said. Harp beer is “a
great success” in the country, while Smirnoff Ice is showing
“good growth” there, he said.  Harp, Tusker  Beer was Diageo’s fastest-growing category in fiscal 2010,
driven by local brands in Africa including Harp and Tusker,
named after the elephant that killed one of its founders.  The company has started selling spirits in the region and
sales of whiskey are showing “healthy growth,” Gosnell said.  “It helps people to have a beer option, a ready-to-drink
option and a spirits option,” Gosnell said, adding that most
drinkers aspire to buy more expensive brands.  Outside of Africa, Diageo is “more likely” to expand in
China through a joint venture, and will look to countries
including Vietnam for growth, Gosnell said. He declined to
comment on future partnership plans.  Diageo is closing factories in Ireland and Scotland,
resulting in about 700 job cuts and may shut more plants “if
necessary,” Gosnell said yesterday in a  webcast .  “I don’t see that as being the biggest thing” in the
cost-cutting process, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 