-- Dollar Gains on Speculation Fed Easing Will Spark Inflation
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-26T14:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/dollar-gains-on-speculation-fed-easing-will-spark-inflation.html
The dollar rose against the euro on
speculation an increase in debt purchases by the Federal Reserve
will cause inflation to accelerate.  Sterling rallied against all of its major counterparts as a
report showed the U.K.’s economy grew in the third quarter at
double the pace forecast by economists and Standard & Poor’s
raised the nation’s credit outlook. The yen dropped versus the
dollar on the prospects of Japan renewing intervention to weaken
the currency and protect exporters.  “The Fed’s signaling channel has been very successful in
raising inflation expectations as interpolated from various
market prices,” analysts led by  Marc Chandler , global head of
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York,
wrote in a research note.  The dollar appreciated 0.6 percent to $1.3886 per euro at
10:18 a.m. in New York, from $1.3965 yesterday. The U.S.
currency gained 0.6 percent to 81.33 yen, from 80.81 yesterday,
when it reached 80.41 yen, the lowest level since April 1995.
The euro was little changed at 112.88 yen, compared with 112.85.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro, yen and pound, increased
0.7 percent to 77.642. The gauge of the greenback has fallen 10
percent since the end of June on speculation a boost in
quantitative easing will erode the value of the greenback. The
Fed is next due to decide on policy at its Nov. 2-3 meeting.  Dudley’s View  William Dudley , president of the New York Fed and vice
chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee, reiterated
yesterday in Ithaca, New York, that current levels of inflation
and a 9.6 percent unemployment rate are “unacceptable” and
said the Fed needs to take action, even though expanding the
balance sheet isn’t a “perfect tool.”  The difference between  yields  on U.S. 10-year notes and
equivalent inflation-linked securities, a gauge of inflation
expectations over the life of the maturity that’s known as the
break-even rate, increased to 2.19 percentage points, the
highest level since May 18.  Sterling gained 0.7 percent to $1.5836 and appreciated 1.4
to 87.61 pence per euro as S&P raised the U.K.’s outlook and
affirmed its AAA rating. The pound also advanced as growth in
gross domestic product damped concern the Bank of England will
restart its bond-purchase program next month to boost the
economy in a practice known as quantitative easing.  The U.K.’s  economy expanded  0.8 percent in the three months
through September after increasing 1.2 percent in the second
quarter, according to data from the Office for National
Statistics. The median forecast of 35 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 0.4 percent increase.  ‘Numbers Were Strong’  “Those numbers were strong, which is going to be
instructive for those who were thinking that QE could come as
early as next month,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director
of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in London. “They’ve got an opportunity to  pause  now
until the end of the year to see how the consumer holds up.”  The yen fell against the dollar as Japan’s Chief Cabinet
Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said he met today with a senior
finance ministry official to discuss the global economy and the
foreign-exchange market.  Japan’s currency has appreciated more than 5 percent since
authorities acknowledged on Sept. 15 intervening for the first
time in six years. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said on Oct.
23 that the government stands ready to counter a rise in the yen
if necessary.  ‘Underlying Nervousness’  “There is some underlying nervousness about
intervention,” said  Daragh Maher , deputy head of global
foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole SA in London. “The
market got a little more edgy” as the yen neared 80 per dollar,
Maher said.  Sweden’s krona fell against the euro and dollar after the
nation’s central bank scaled back its interest-rate outlook as
it raised borrowing costs, citing “weak developments
overseas.” The Riksbank increased the main rate by a quarter-
percentage point to 1 percent today, as forecast by all 20
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The krona depreciated 1.3 percent to 9.3175 per euro after
advancing to 9.1577, the strongest level since Oct. 1. The
currency declined 2.2 percent to 6.7342 per dollar.  Thailand’s baht fell on speculation the nation will
announce steps to slow fund inflows after the currency reached a
13-year high this month.  The baht slid 0.5 percent to 29.94 against the dollar. The
Thai currency has risen almost 12 percent this year in the best
performance among Asia currencies excluding the yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  