-- Dollar to Remain Weak on Scarcity of Credit Demand, Best Fund Manager Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-10-26T07:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/dollar-to-remain-weak-on-scarcity-of-credit-demand-best-fund-manager-says.html
The dollar is likely to remain weak
for the next two to three years as U.S. consumers and businesses
pay down their debts, reducing demand for credit and weighing on
the economy, according to UBS Global Asset Management.  The U.S.  currency  will remain below its average trade-
weighted value as the Federal Reserve’s attempts to stimulate
the economy with low interest rates and asset purchases are
blunted by limited requests for borrowing, said  Jonathan Davies ,
manager of the UBS Currency Absolute Return Strategy, the best-
performing fund in its class this year tracked by Bloomberg. The
dollar may rise in the near term because investors overestimated
the effect of the Fed’s quantitative-easing policy, he said.  “It’s going to take a few years before there is a
sustained move back towards more long-term average levels,”
Davies said in a telephone interview. “That doesn’t mean I
think the dollar is going to weaken much from here.”  The U.S. currency is at its weakest since August 2008,
according to the Federal Reserve’s Trade-Weighted Real Broad
Dollar  Index , which fell to 87.0035 at the end of September. It
reached an all-time low of 84.0489 in July 1995 and averaged
97.0479 since it began in January 1973.  Consumer credit  in the U.S. has declined for 18 of the last
19 months, shrinking 0.1 percent to $2.4 trillion in August, the
least since February 2007, according to Federal Reserve data.
Borrowing fell even as Fed policy helped push the yield on the
 10-year Treasury  note down to as low as 2.05 percent during the
period, from above 4.5 percent.  Mid-Term Elections  The next big event affecting the dollar may be the U.S.
mid-term elections on Nov. 2, as the result may decide how much
fiscal stimulus the economy receives, said Davies, who helps
manage about $58 billion of currencies at the unit of UBS AG,
Switzerland’s biggest bank.  “If there’s not much fiscal stimulus coming, then that
will put pressure on the dollar to stay weak in order to boost
net exports in the U.S.,” he said. “If Congress approves an
increase in fiscal stimulus, then that might give the economy a
bit more traction.”  An Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg National Poll shows that almost two-
thirds of voters believe the country is on the wrong track and
unemployment is the top concern for about half the electorate.
The deficit, which was almost $1.3 trillion for the fiscal year
that ended Sept. 30, ranks as the second most pressing issue,
cited by 27 percent.  The dollar has weakened as much as 12 percent against the
euro since Aug. 24, when it reached a six-week high on
speculation the Fed will say it’s printing more currency to buy
Treasuries at its Nov. 3 meeting.  “The expectations of QE have had a such a profound impact
on the dollar’s exchange rate that it seems priced in at the
moment, and the dollar is more likely to have some sort of
bounce,” said Davies. “Cyclically, it’s in a weak position,
and will remain so for the next few years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  