-- Ruble Analysts Half as Bullish on Dollar Demand, Exchange-Rate Flexibility
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-27T19:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/dollar-near-one-week-high-versus-euro-on-bets-fed-easing-to-spur-inflation.html
The dollar advanced against all of
its most-traded counterparts as stocks and longer-term
Treasuries fell on speculation the Federal Reserve will buy less
debt than some traders estimated under quantitative easing.  The euro fell one cent versus the dollar after Greece said
tax revenue is falling short of a government goal and talks on
Portugal’s 2011 budget broke down. South Korea’s won and South
Africa’s rand were among the biggest losers as the nations
signaled they may act to slow gains in their currencies.  “We’re seeing the dollar pull back from its lows of last
week,” said  John Doyle , a strategist at the currency-trading
firm Tempus Consulting Inc. in Washington. “The market is
scaling back expectations. We’re seeing a more gradual approach
to quantitative easing.”  The dollar appreciated as much as 0.9 percent to $1.3734
per euro, the strongest level since Oct. 20, before trading at
$1.3757 at 3:32 p.m. in New York, compared with $1.3859
yesterday. The dollar climbed 0.4 percent to 81.73 yen, from
81.43, after falling on Oct. 25 to 80.41 yen, the lowest level
since April 1995. The euro fell 0.4 percent to 112.43 yen.  The  MSCI World Index  fell 1 percent, the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  dropped 0.6 percent, and the  yield  on the 10-year
Treasury note increased 0.08 percentage point to 2.71 percent.  South Korea’s won declined 1 percent to 1,128.24 versus the
dollar after Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said four
days after the Group of 20 pledged to soothe trade tensions in
the $4 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market that measures to
mitigate capital flows may be “useful.”  Weaker Rand  The rand slid as much as 1.9 percent to 7.0851 against the
dollar in the biggest intraday decline since June 24 as South
African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said the government will
use higher-than-expected tax revenue to boost purchases of
foreign exchange as a means of weakening the currency.  Malaysia’s ringgit slid 0.3 percent to 3.1065 per dollar as
Bank Negara Malaysia Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television that policy makers don’t want
to see “sudden movements.” The currency has appreciated more
than 10 percent this year, a gain second only to the Thai baht’s
among Asia’s most-traded currencies excluding the yen.  Australia’s currency dropped against most of its 16 major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg after the Bureau of Statistics
said the consumer price index rose 0.7 percent in the third
quarter, compared with the 0.8 percent forecast by economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. The Aussie tumbled 1.6 percent to 96.98
U.S. cents and slid 1.2 percent to 79.27 yen.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index  increased 0.6 percent to 78.158 as
investors pared bets on how much that Fed policy will debase the
currency. IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s gauge of the greenback
against the currencies of six U.S. trading partners including
the euro, yen and pound has climbed 2.7 percent since reaching
76.144 on Oct. 15, the lowest level since Dec. 11.  “The dollar strength or weakness is going to simply be a
barometer of the market’s assumptions around quantitative
easing,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange
at National Bank of Canada in Toronto. “The market is likely to
keep pulling back on risk. Currently that risk takes the state
of short U.S. dollar positions in a relatively extreme way.” A
short is a bet a currency will decline.  The Fed is likely to announce a program of bond purchases
worth a few hundred billion dollars over several months, the
Wall Street Journal reported, without saying where it obtained
the information. Officials want flexibility in the new program
to gauge if it’s working, the Journal said.  Fed Outlooks  Estimates for the ultimate size of the asset-purchase
program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with economists at
both firms agreeing the Fed will likely start by announcing
$500 billion after its Nov. 2-3 meeting.  The Fed’s “uncontrolled” issuance of dollars is adding to
inflation risks in China and creating difficulties for the
nation’s businesses, the state-run Xinhua News Agency cited
Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  as saying yesterday.  The dollar rose yesterday against the euro for the first
time in three days on speculation an increase in debt purchases
by the Fed will cause U.S. inflation to accelerate.  “If we do start to see continued upward pressure on
inflation, that will definitely help the dollar,” said Doyle of
Tempus Consulting.  The difference between  yields  on U.S. 10-year notes and
inflation-linked debt, a gauge of consumer price expectations
during the life of the maturity known as the break-even rate,
rose to 2.20 percentage points, the highest since May 18.  The euro slid versus the dollar on evidence the currency
region’s sovereign-debt crisis isn’t over. Greece’s Finance
Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said a tax-revenue shortfall is
hampering government efforts to reduce the deficit, while
Portugal’s government and the main opposition party broke off
talks on the biggest budget cuts since at least the 1970s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  