-- Dom Perignon Creates Warhol Tribute for 2002 Vintage: Interview
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/dom-perignon-creates-pop-art-warhol-tribute-for-2002-vintage-interview.html
During his intense partying nights
at Studio 54,  Andy Warhol ’s drink of choice was  Dom Perignon .
Who could blame him? The champagne is fabled for making men
witty and women beautiful.  Now Dom Perignon is returning the compliment by paying
tribute to the Pop Artist with a special edition of the just-
released 2002 vintage.  DayGlo red, blue and yellow labels on bottles and boxes
created by London’s  Central Saint Martins College of Art and
Design  are now at available at wine shops.  It’s part of a move to make American drinkers more
conscious of the delights champagne can offer.  Laurent Boidevezi is head of Dom Perignon Business and
Champagne Strategy at Moet Hennessy USA.  I spoke with Boidevezi at his office in Manhattan’s
Meatpacking District.  Lundborg: You are in charge of champagne strategy not just
for Dom Perignon, but the other  Moet Hennessy  brands as well:
Veuve Clicquot, Krug, Moet & Chandon and Ruinart. What’s the
toughest challenge?  Some Bubbly?  Boidevezi: It’s changing consumer perception about
champagne. We have a significant opportunity in the U.S., where
the market is very underdeveloped.  Consumers still think of champagne only when they want to
celebrate, especially at the end of the year. We need to
convince the American consumer to have a more spontaneous
approach to champagne.  Lundborg: How underdeveloped are we?  Boidevezi: The number of drinking-age people in the U.S.
who’ve had at least one glass of champagne over the last year is
11-12 percent.  Clearly, Americans are drinking way too much beer.  Lundborg: Perhaps the trick is to target a younger
audience?  Boidevezi: We’ve put a program together to celebrate
graduation ceremonies at some Ivy League schools and the Harvard
Business School.  In June, windows in the wine shops close to campuses
displayed our products and explained that as our champagne
represents one pinnacle of human achievement, it is therefore
fitting for graduation.  Lundborg: What else are you doing?  Boidevezi: We are also trying to make a cultural change in
restaurants. You know how the waiter offers you flat or
sparkling water?  Champagne is a great aperitif since it opens the appetite,
and we now have 800 participating restaurants asking customers
if they would like to start off with a glass of bubbly.  Andy Warhol  Lundborg: Tell me about the tribute to Andy Warhol.  Boidevezi: It’s true to our DNA, but we are playing a
little bit with the code, bringing an edge to our brand.  Andy Warhol wrote in his diary in 1981 about how much he
loved the “2000” club, a group of 20 guys who got together to
buy 2000 bottles of Dom Perignon to pop open and drink in 2000.  Warhol said the running joke was speculation about who
would make it and who wouldn’t.  Lundborg: Sadly, he didn’t.  Boidevezi: No, but since Dom Perignon is about obsessive
creation and the artistic process, the Warhol design will, we
hope, excite regular consumers and recruit new ones.  It’s a limited release and the bottles won’t last very
long, as people collect and gift them.  Lundborg: What’s the best part of your job?  Boidevezi: I reflect how lucky I am to have this
unbelievable brand, the king of champagne.  Lundborg: What’s the best way to drink champagne?  Boidevezi: We’re not champagne police. Drink it the way you
want. We believe champagne is about pop, it’s about life and
excitement.  ( Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 