-- DuPont Profit Tops Estimates on Electronics, Pigments
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-10-26T20:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/dupont-third-quarter-earnings-40-cents-estimate-34c-year-forecast-raised.html
DuPont Co. , the third-biggest U.S.
chemical maker, reported third-quarter earnings that fell less
than analysts projected, aided by sales of solar-energy
materials and Kevlar. The company raised its full-year forecast.  Net income  dropped 10 percent to $367 million, or 40 cents
a share, from $409 million, or 45 cents, a year earlier,
Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont said today in a statement.
Profit topped the 34-cent  average estimate  of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 17 percent to $7 billion,
exceeding the $6.76 billion average estimate of nine analysts.  Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  is combating lower
pharmaceutical earnings from expired patents by investing in
solar energy and genetically modified crops. Profit rose 64
percent in the electronics unit on sales of photovoltaic
materials, and earnings more than doubled in the safety and
protection unit, which makes fibers that resist bullets and
fire.  “Two of the growth businesses did very well: Safety and
protection and electronics,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based
analyst at Soleil Securities, said today in a telephone
interview. “Photovoltaic sales did very well and industrial
demand is helping safety and protection.”  DuPont increased its  forecast  for full-year earnings
excluding some items to about $3.10 a share, from a previous
forecast of $2.90 to $3.05 a share. Fourteen analysts had
estimated 2010 profit of $3.03 a share, on average.  Free Cash Flow  DuPont cut its projection for free cash flow this year to
about $1.7 billion from a prior estimate of more than $1.7
billion. That’s because of a voluntary $500 million cash
contribution to the company’s principal U.S. pension plan during
the quarter,  Karen Fletcher , a spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview.  DuPont fell 48 cents, or 1 percent, to $47.22 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have
gained 40 percent this year, the biggest gain among the 30
companies in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Kullman unveiled a plan last November to increase earnings
20 percent a year and sales at least 10 percent to more than
make up for the erosion of $1 billion in yearly drug royalties.  The Asia-Pacific region led year-over-year  sales gains  in
the third quarter, with a 31 percent increase. Canada rose 21
percent, the region that includes Europe grew 9 percent, and
U.S. revenue rose 17 percent. Average global prices rose 5
percent, sales volumes increased 14 percent and a weaker dollar
versus the euro and other currencies reduced sales by 1 percent,
DuPont said.  Electronics and Communications  The electronics and communications unit benefited from an
83 percent increase in sales of photovoltaic materials, such as
plastics used to seal solar panels, DuPont said in a  slide
presentation . Total electronics unit sales climbed 30 percent.  Profit in the safety and protection unit more than doubled
to $134 million from $58 million a year earlier because of
increased industrial demand for aramid fibers such as Kevlar and
Nomex, DuPont said.  Earnings from hypertension medicines Cozaar and Hyzaar,
marketed through  Merck & Co. , dropped by $155 million in the
third quarter, or 58 percent, after they lost patent protection
this year in Europe and the U.S.  Profit in DuPont’s performance-chemicals unit rose 41
percent to $292 million as tight supplies of titanium dioxide, a
white pigment used in paints and plastics, allowed DuPont to
raise prices.  Sherwin-Williams Profit  Sherwin-Williams Co. , the largest U.S. paint retailer, said
higher costs for paint ingredients such as titanium dioxide
eroded the benefit of 8.8 percent higher sales in the quarter.  Net income  of $175.3 million, or $1.60 a share, was little
changed from a year earlier, Cleveland-based Sherwin-Williams
said today in a statement. That trailed the $1.66 per-share
 average estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sherwin-Williams  forecast  profit of 59 cents to 69 cents in
the fourth quarter, trailing the 80-cent average estimate of
eight analysts.  The shares  fell $2.62, or 3.5 percent, to $71.95
in New York trading.  DuPont said an 8 percent increase in global car production
from a year earlier helped increase profit by 22 percent in the
performance-materials unit, which makes plastics for vehicle
parts and packaging.  Celanese Corp. , a Dallas-based chemical maker, also
benefited from increased demand for car parts. The company today
reported earnings that topped analysts’ estimates as profit
tripled from engineered materials, which supplies automakers.  Agriculture-Unit Loss  The loss in the agriculture unit widened to $181 million,
from $113 million a year earlier, because of increased research
and sales spending on crop seeds,  Fletcher  said in the
interview. The third quarter is traditionally weak for
agricultural products because farmers in North America and
Europe have already planted their crops.  DuPont,  founded  in 1802 to make gunpowder, produces
thousands of products from Corian countertops and Teflon
coatings to Tyvek weather barrier and Kevlar bullet-proof
fibers.  Dow Chemical Co.  and Exxon Mobil Corp. are the two largest
U.S. chemical makers by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 