-- Lebanon Real Estate Boom Is No Bubble as Demand Grows, Solidere Chief Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-10-26T09:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/lebanon-real-estate-boom-is-no-bubble-as-demand-grows-solidere-chief-says.html
Lebanon’s booming real-estate market
is based on solid foundations and isn’t a bubble, said  Mounir Douaidy , general manager of  Solidere SAL , the largest publicly
traded company in Lebanon.  “Prices have gone up recently a little bit more than what
people would have expected them to do,” Douaidy said in an
interview in Beirut yesterday. “I don’t see this as a bubble. I
view this as a normal progression of prices because there is
demand for property in Lebanon and property is scarce.”  Real-estate sales in Lebanon in the first nine months were
worth $7 billion, 60 percent more than a year earlier, while
transactions increased 25 percent,  Bank Audi SAL-Audi Saradar
Group  SAL said in a report yesterday. The boom has helped
Lebanon’s economy defy the global crisis. The International
Monetary Fund and the  Central Bank  forecast growth of 8 percent
in 2010, from 9 percent last year.  Improved political and security conditions have encouraged
real-estate investment, Economy and Trade Minister  Mohammed
Safadi  said in May. Lebanon’s pro-Western premier  Saad Hariri 
formed a national unity government, which includes the Shiite
Muslim Hezbollah movement and representatives of other ethnic
groups, in November. Lebanese buyers account for between 80
percent and 90 percent of the real estate market.  Lebanese real estate prices have grown at an average pace
of 25 percent in the past five years, though that may slow to
between 10 percent and 15 percent this year, said Raja Makarem,
the founder of RAMCO, a Beirut-based real estate agency.  European Slump  By comparison, European home prices began falling in the
second half of 2007, and further declines are possible even in
countries where prices have begun to recover, according to a
June report by Standard & Poor’s.  While Lebanon is “‘booming beyond any expectation,” the
pace of credit growth isn’t so fast as to raise concerns about a
bubble, said  Marios Maratheftis , chief economist for Standard
Chartered Plc in the Middle East, in an interview last month.  Lending has increased about 20 percent this year after
rising 16 percent in 2009, Lebanon’s  Central Bank  Governor  Riad Salameh  said on Sept. 6.  That’s “not massive,” Maratheftis said. “To put it in
context, there was a 50 percent increase in the United Arab
Emirates back in 2008,” when Dubai property prices peaked
before crashing, he said.  Total home loans of about $3.5 billion account for just 3
percent of Lebanese banks’ balance sheets, and the default rate
is less than 1 percent, according to Salameh.  Debt Burden  Lebanon’s currency peg to the dollar since 1993, coupled
with high interest rates on Lebanese-pound deposits, has helped
to attract billions of dollars to the country from Lebanese
living abroad. That has enabled banks to finance consumer loan
growth as well as the government’s fiscal deficits and one of
the world’s heaviest debt burdens.  Solidere, which was set up to rebuild parts of central
Beirut destroyed during the 15-year civil war that ended in
1990, had  net income  of $189 million last year and assets of
$2.4 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  The company’s  shares  have dropped 22 percent on the Beirut
stock exchange this year, more than double the decline on the
benchmark  BLOM Stock Index . Its market value is $3.1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
 Zahra Hankir  in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 