-- LeBron James Stimulates Miami Economy as Heat Starts Play
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/lebron-james-stimulates-miami-economy-as-heat-starts-play.html
LeBron James  will be helping more
than South Beach when he plays his first game for the Miami Heat
tonight.  James, the National Basketball Association’s reigning two-
time Most Valuable Player, said he was “taking my talents to
South Beach” -- a glitzy strip of nightclubs, hotels and
restaurants -- when the 25-year-old announced in July that he
was leaving the Cleveland Cavaliers and joining the Heat to play
with fellow All-Star free agents  Dwyane Wade , 28, and  Chris Bosh , 26.  In addition to making the Heat the favorite to win the NBA
title, the trio already has spurred a rebirth across the bay in
the downtown area outside AmericanAirlines Arena.  “We’re well aware that the eyes of the world will be on
Miami, and we wanted to put our best foot forward,” said  Marc Sarnoff , chairman of the  Miami Downtown Development Authority 
and a city commissioner. Heat owner “ Mickey Arison  probably
gave us a better stimulus package than 10 Barack Obamas
combined.”  Workers donated from the city, state, Dade County and some
private industries are sprucing up Biscayne Boulevard, the main
drag in front of the arena. That includes painting, landscaping,
replacing broken sidewalks and improving lighting. Expressway
ramps to the area also are being refurbished.  Police Presence  Extra police are being considered for game nights, as well
as an extension of the city’s no pan-handling zone to include
the arena area.  “Everything that could have been done within the timeframe
before the Heat opening night has pretty much been done,” said
Sarnoff.  James may create as much as $21 million in new economic
activity to Miami, less than 1 percent of the city’s overall
tourism revenue, said Chris Lafakis , an economist at Moody’s
Economy.com.  “There’s absolutely going to be more people coming from
out of town,” he said in a telephone interview. “But given the
size of Miami’s economy, it’s not going to be a noticeable
boost.”  Miami, which went 47-35 last season, is a 17-10 favorite to
win its first NBA title since 2006, according to gambling
website Bodog.com. The Los Angeles Lakers are second favorites
at 5-2, meaning a successful $2 bet on the Lakers to defend
their NBA title would pay $5 plus the original wager. The Heat
open in Boston against the Celtics and play their first home
game Oct. 29 versus the Orlando Magic.  Late Arrivals  When that game gets under way, Heat officials want to be
sure fans are in their seats, breaking a trend of late arrivals
that was a hallmark of past games there.  “Most people don’t show up until the middle of the first
quarter,” Julio Rojas Sarmiento, a 23-year-old fan who grew up
in Miami, said in an e-mail. “It won’t be a problem anymore
though.”  Heat officials aren’t taking chances. They’ve created a
program called “Fan Up, Miami!,” urging ticket holders to show
up before tip-off by giving early arrivers discount cards for
concessions and merchandise.  A difference from past seasons has already been felt inside
the arena, according to Hall of Famer  Kevin McHale , who covered
a preseason game as an analyst for Turner Inc.’s TNT.  “There was an atmosphere in the exhibition game that
surprised me,” McHale said on a conference call. “There was a
vibe in that arena and they’re going to have that vibe during
every home game.”  The Heat’s All-Star infusion is also likely to benefit
teams throughout the NBA.  Single-Game Sellout  “My guess is that the Heat is not going to play to too
many empty seats on the road,” NBA Commissioner  David Stern ,
who will be in Boston tonight, said at a news conference last
week. “It’s certainly not a zero-sum game. There’s been an
addition because many teams are selling the Heat as part of a
package, part of a grouping of games.”  For example, the only way for Sacramento Kings fans to buy
a ticket for the Heat’s Dec. 11 visit is to also purchase one
for the Kings’ Dec. 8 game with the Washington Wizards. Prices
for the package range from $83 to $472.  Eighteen of the NBA’s 30 franchises have sold out single-
game tickets to Miami’s first or only visit this season,
according to  USA Today .  Season-Ticket Sell Out  Sales of Heat season tickets sold out the day of James’s
announcement as word leaked out about his intentions, though his
handling of the decision process drew heavy criticism.  The Cavaliers learned of James’s plans as they were
televised, prompting owner  Dan Gilbert  to call the decision a
“cowardly betrayal,” by James, who is a native of Akron, Ohio,
which is 40 miles from Cleveland.  A Seton Hall University Sports Poll found that 22 percent
of respondents view James less favorably because of how he
handled the free-agent process, with just 2 percent viewing him
more favorably.  The criticism will give James an edge as he tries to claim
his first championship, though injuries and other obstacles
likely will keep the Heat from topping the all-time win-loss
mark set by the 1995-1996 Chicago Bulls, according to former
Bulls player  Steve Kerr . That team, led by  Michael Jordan  and
 Scottie Pippen , went 72-10.  “I just don’t think that’s a record that’s going to be
touched,” said Kerr, now a TNT analyst.  With assistance from  Jerry Hart  in Miami and  Eben Novy-Williams 
in New York. Editor: Michael Sillup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 