-- EU Reaches Compromise on Regulations for Hedge Funds
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-10-26T12:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/hedge-fund-private-equity-regulation-compromise-reached-by-eu-negotiators.html
Hedge-fund and private-equity
regulations that will restrict bonuses and require increased
disclosure were approved by European Union negotiators
representing the  European Parliament  and 27 member states.  The accord will allow the rules for hedge-fund managers to
become part of EU law as soon as next year.  Finance ministers from the EU agreed on a compromise at a
meeting in Luxembourg last week to give the European Securities
and Markets Authority powers over a so-called passport system
for non-EU hedge-fund managers. The Brussels-based  European
Commission  proposed the rules last year.  “The commission’s initial draft was a very wrinkly shirt
and we have managed to iron out many of the wrinkles,”  Syed Kamall , a U.K. Conservative member of the EU parliament, said in
an e-mail.  The passport would give managers access to investors across
the EU with a single registration, in return for complying with
transparency rules.  “I am particularly pleased by the truly European character
of this directive,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
commissioner, said in an e-mail.  “By guaranteeing a high level of transparency and
protection throughout the industry, the directive will allow us
to create a passport for all fund managers,” Barnier said.  Asset Stripping  Private equity managers will face tougher rules on asset
stripping as part of the law. The rules place limits on the
selling of assets immediately following a corporate takeover.  Private investors will also be required to provide
information on their strategic plans to employees of companies
they control.  The rules stop short of preventing hedge funds based
outside the EU without a passport from taking EU investors’
money, a process called passive marketing.  “The deal reached today falls far short of what is
required to effectively regulate hedge funds,”  Pascal Canfin , a
French Green party lawmaker, said in an e-mail.  “While these funds cannot be actively marketed in the EU,
there is nothing to stop an investor from buying the parts of
the funds that are managed outside the EU,” Canfin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  