-- Hedge Funds Buying Bearish Options Is Bullish Signal: Technical Analysis
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-26T12:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/hedge-funds-buying-bearish-options-may-signal-rally-technical-analysis.html
Hedge funds are buying bearish
options on exchange-traded funds to protect their positions, a
signal that stocks may rally, said  Todd Salamone  at Schaeffer’s
Investment Research.  Since mid-September, the ratio of bought-to-open puts
versus bought-to-open calls has been increasing on major ETFs,
such as the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, the  PowerShares QQQ  and the
iShares Russell 2000 Index Fund, Salamone said. The increase in
that ratio indicates that hedge funds may be boosting their long
positions in the ETFs, because they could use the puts to
protect them in case of declines.  “What that translates into is since these equity buyers
are protected, they are less likely to panic on bad news,”
Salamone, vice president of research at  Schaeffer’s  said in a
telephone interview from Cincinnati. “When hedged hands are
accumulating stocks, rallies tend to occur, and any selloffs
tend to be modest given that they have put protection in
place.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slumped as much as 16
percent from a 19-month high in April on concern about an
economic slowdown. The U.S. equity benchmark is once again near
its 2010 highs after falling to this year’s low in July, as
companies reported better-than-estimated earnings and the
Federal Reserve indicated that it will buy bonds to stimulate
the economy.  Calls convey the right, without the obligation, to buy a
security at a set price by a given date. Puts give investors the
right to sell. Technical analysts study charts of trading
patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 