-- Edison Shares Decline in Milan as Costly Gas Contracts Hurt Interim Profit
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-10-26T13:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/edison-shares-decline-in-milan-as-costly-gas-contracts-hurt-interim-profit.html
Edison SpA , Italy’s second-largest
power generator, fell the most in three months after saying it 
may have to wait until next year to renegotiate gas procurement
contracts that caused a 54 percent slump in quarterly profit.  Net income declined to 37 million euros ($52 million) in
the third quarter from 81 million euros a year earlier, the
Milan-based company said in a stock exchange statement today.
Revenue for the period rose 26 percent to 2.57 billion euros.
The  shares  dropped 2.9 percent to 0.93 euros as of 3:16 p.m. in
Milan, the biggest decline since July 15.  The company is paying more for natural gas than it can sell
it for due to procurement contracts that were signed when oil
prices were higher. Edison is also facing weak energy demand
because of the economic slump, it said. Both gas and electric
power demand increased 0.8 percent in the third quarter,
according to the statement.  “As a result of the combined impact of these factors,
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization are
 expected  to be slightly lower in 2010 than in 2009,” Edison
said in the statement.  That includes a one-off gain of 150 million euros on Ebitda
from the early termination of CIP6 incentive system contracts
with the government. The gain will have a “marginal effect” on
net profit, the company said.  Edison has scheduled a conference call for 3:30 p.m. local
time. The “impact of the macroeconomic scenario on electricity
margins and the renegotiation of gas procurement contracts,”
are issues to focus on, Banca Leonardo analyst  Claudia Introvigne  wrote in a report. She has a rating of
“underweight” on the shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
 Tommaso Ebhardt  at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 