-- Meirelles Says No New Measures to Curb Currency Gains Are Planned For Now
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-10-26T17:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/meirelles-says-no-new-measures-to-curb-currency-gains-are-planned-for-now.html
Brazil’s government is not
considering for the moment additional measures to curb a
currency rally, central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said.  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s administration
tripled this month a tax foreign investors must pay to buy
fixed-income securities in a bid to temper dollar inflows. It
also increased to 6 percent from 0.38 percent the so-called IOF
tax foreigners are charged to enter the derivatives market.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday the reaction
of the real to the measure had been “good” and that the
investment barriers could be scaled back should the U.S. dollar
and the Chinese yuan strengthen. He said the government isn’t
considering an income tax on foreigners’ investments in the
local government bonds as reported by O Estado de S.Paulo
yesterday.  “As stated yesterday by minister Mantega, the government
is not thinking about new measures at the moment,” Meirelles
told reporters in New York today. “We are in a phase of
assessing the impact of those measures” already taken.  The real weakened 0.7 percent to 1.7070 per U.S. dollar at
1:01 p.m. New York time. The currency has gained 36 percent
since the beginning of 2009, the third best performer amid the
16 most traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Meirelles said that measures taken by Brazil to curb
capital inflows are part of “prudential” steps to prevent the
formation of bubbles that could arise from credit expansion. The
inflows are arising from the “high level of liquidity” in the
U.S. and other nations, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  