-- Hells Angels Sue Saks, McQueen Design, Over Trademark
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2010-10-26T20:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/hells-angels-sue-saks-mcqueen-design-over-trademark-update1-.html
The Hells Angels motorcycle group
sued fashion design house  Alexander McQueen  and retail chain
 Saks Inc.  for trademark infringement for selling handbags,
jewelry and clothing using the club’s death-head design.  Hells Angels Motorcycle Corp.  said McQueen’s company, New
York-based Saks and retailer Zappos.com Inc. have been selling
infringing products in stores in California and online,
according to a complaint filed yesterday in U.S. District Court
in Los Angeles.  The motorcycle club said it has been using the  death-head
mark , a skull with wings, since at least 1948. The Hells Angels
have authorized the use of the marks on jewelry, apparel and
“promotional and entertainment services,” according to the
complaint.  Saks, McQueen and Zappos have been selling items including
the  Hells Angels Jacquard Box Dress  and Hells Angels Pashmina
that deploy the trademarks, according to the complaint. The
jacquard dress is listed on McQueen’s website for $1,595 and the
pashmina scarf for $560.  A woman’s handbag designed by McQueen called “Hell’s
Knuckle Duster” is listed on Zappos.com’s site for $2,329.
Zappos is owned by Seattle-based  Amazon.com Inc.   McQueen , the designer for whom the fashion house is named,
died in February.  Julia Bentley , a spokeswoman for Saks, said the company had
no comment on the complaint. Diane Coffey, a spokeswoman for
Zappos, said the company has no immediate comment.  Representatives of Alexander McQueen, based in London,
couldn’t be reached for comment. McQueen is a unit of PPR’s
Gucci Group, based in Amsterdam.  The case is Hells Angels Motorcycle Corp. v. Alexander
McQueen Trading Ltd., 10-08029, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 