-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Second Day on Outlook for Earnings Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-26T07:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-second-day-on-outlook-for-earnings-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
second day on speculation companies can sustain earnings growth
with the global recovery.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.1 percent to
1,116.47 at 2:22 p.m. in Shanghai. Taiwan’s  Taiex index  gained
0.4 percent as its currency advanced to a two-year high. China’s
 Shanghai Composite Index  fell 0.3 percent on concern an increase
in fuel prices will stoke inflation and that recent gains were
excessive relative to the outlook for earnings.  The MSCI measure has climbed 13 percent this year, more
than twice the developed-markets gauge, as a weaker dollar drove
investors to seek faster growth in emerging economies.  “Valuations aren’t expensive relative to earnings
growth,” said  Daphne Roth , head of Asian equity research at ABN
Amro Private Banking, which oversees about $14 billion in the
region. “Companies have so far delivered on the earnings.”  Benchmark indexes in South Korea, Indonesia and Malaysia
were little changed. India’s  Sensitive Index  slid 0.2 percent as
Coal India Ltd. raised the maximum 152 billion rupees ($3.4
billion) sought in the country’s biggest initial public offering.  Nan Ya Printed Circuit Board Corp.  rose 3.9 percent in
Taipei, the most in four weeks, after Bank of America Merrill
Lynch recommended investors buy the stock, saying the company is
positioned to take more market share from Japanese companies.  Hyosung Corp.  rose 7.8 percent in Seoul, the biggest gain
on the MSCI gauge, after LIG Investment & Securities Co.
predicted the South Korean chemicals and trading company will
post a record quarterly profit.  Sino Thai Engineering &
Construction Pcl , Thailand’s third-biggest publicly traded
construction company, climbed 2.4 percent in Bangkok after Kim
Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl said new contracts will boost
third-quarter earnings.  China Railway Construction Corp. , the builder of more than
half the nation’s railroads, tumbled 13 percent in Hong Kong
trading for the steepest decline on the MSCI gauge, after
predicting a loss from a Mecca rail project on cost overruns.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. Editors:  Reinie Booysen ,  Allen Wan   To contact the reporters on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  