-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fluctuate on China Consumer Price, Fed Speculation
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-10-26T12:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/emerging-market-stocks-fluctuate-on-china-consumer-price-fed-speculatione.html
Emerging-market stocks fluctuated as
inflation concern weighed on Chinese consumer shares and
commodity prices slipped on speculation monetary easing by the
Federal Reserve may fall short of investors’ expectations.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 0.2 percent to
1,113.33 as of 12:57 p.m. in London, after gaining as much as
0.2 percent in earlier trading today. China’s  Shanghai Composite
Index  declined 0.3 percent from a six-month high after the
government increased retail gasoline and diesel prices by 3
percent, potentially contributing to faster growth in consumer
prices. South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.2 percent. Poland’s
WIG20 stock index tumbled 0.7 percent.  Some investors are selling shares and emerging-market
currencies in case the Fed makes smaller purchases of government
bonds than expected, in a policy known as “quantitative
easing” or QE2, “driving direction in emerging-markets and
global markets,” said  Chris Shiells , an emerging-market
strategist at Informa Global Markets in London. “There’s a lot
of speculation about QE2, about how much it’s going to be and
the timing of it.”  The Russian ruble depreciated 0.4 percent to 30.3698 to the
dollar, breaking a three-day series of gains. The Turkish lira
weakened 0.4 percent.  Kweichow Moutai Co. , China’s biggest producer of baijiu
liquor by market value, fell 2.3 percent, snapping a seven-day,
9.2 percent advance.  Sichuan New Hope Agribusiness Co. , a
producer of animal feed, lost 4.3 percent.  China Railway  The Shanghai Composite, which yesterday closed at its
highest since April 16, is now valued at 20.3 times earnings,
compared with 17 times in early July, according to weekly  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The 14-day relative strength measure for
the Shanghai gauge, measuring how rapidly prices have advanced
or dropped during a specified time period, was at 77 today.
Readings above 70 indicate a price may be poised to fall.  Hyosung Corp.  rose 7.8 percent in Seoul after LIG
Investment & Securities Co. predicted the South Korean chemicals
and trading company will post a record quarterly profit.  China Railway Construction Corp. , the builder of more than
half the nation’s railroads, tumbled 14 percent in Hong Kong
trading for the steepest decline on the MSCI gauge, after
forecasting a loss from a Mecca rail project on cost overruns.  PKO Bank Polski SA , Poland’s biggest lender, was the
biggest drag on the country’s stock index, losing 1.5 percent.
Copper miner  KGHM Polska Miedza  SA decreased 1 percent as the
metal for three-month delivery slid 0.3 percent on the London
Metal Exchange. Oil slipped as much as 0.8 percent and last
traded 0.1 percent higher in New York at $82.58 a barrel.  Lower energy and base metal prices weighed on Russia’s
Micex stock index, which fell 0.2 percent.  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron
& Steel Works  retreated 1.3 percent.  Investors are concerned the U.S. central bank may ease
monetary policy less than expected,  Andrew Freris , a senior
investment strategist for Asia at BNP Paribas Wealth Management,
said in an interview with Linzie Janis and  John Dawson  on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia.”  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. Editors:  John Kohut ,  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  