-- Merck KGaA Third-Quarter Profit Rises 46% as Millipore Deal Boosts Revenue
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-10-26T15:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/merck-third-quarter-profit-rises-46-as-millipore-purchase-boosts-revenue.html
Merck KGaA  third-quarter profit rose
46 percent as the company reported revenue from this year’s $6
billion  acquisition  of U.S. biotechnology equipment supplier
Millipore Corp. for the first time.  Net income increased to 210.8 million euros ($294.4
million) from 144.4 million euros a year earlier, the Darmstadt,
Germany-based maker of chemicals and drugs said in a statement
today. Merck raised its forecast for profit from its drug unit,
though it cut the forecast for the liquid crystals it makes for
flat-screen televisions and electronics.  The Millipore deal gives Merck, hurt by setbacks for its
experimental  drugs  such as the multiple sclerosis treatment
cladribine, more diverse sources of revenue. Investors are
likely to look beyond the effects of the acquisition to the
mixed outlook for the company’s liquid crystals and drug
divisions, said  Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst for
Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  The drug unit’s results were “one massive positive
surprise, and everything else was slightly disappointing,”
Scannell said in a telephone interview today.  Core earnings, which exclude costs such as writedowns and
merger expenses, were 1.95 euros a share, beating the median
 estimate  of 1.73 euros from 15  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  The shares lost 2 percent to 59.95 euros as of 5:35 p.m. in
Frankfurt. Merck has fallen 15 percent since European regulators
rejected its multiple sclerosis pill cladribine, a potential
competitor to  Novartis AG ’s Gilenya, on Sept. 24.  First-Quarter Ruling  Merck, which isn’t related to U.S. drugmaker Merck & Co.,
expects the European Medicines Agency to rule on an appeal by
the first quarter of next year, Chief Executive Officer  Karl- Ludwig Kley  said in a press conference today.  The rebuff for cladribine was the latest in a series of
regulatory setbacks for Merck. European regulators rejected
Erbitux in July 2009 for use in lung cancer, and last November
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration rejected the company’s
initial cladribine application as incomplete. Merck now expects
a U.S. decision on the MS pill by year-end, Kley said.  Merck said it expects the company’s full-year operating
profit to rise by 70 percent rather than 90 percent, while the
core operating result is expected to rise by 58 percent compared
with a previous forecast of 55 percent. The forecasts were
revised because of lower spending in the company’s drug unit and
a slow-down in the liquid crystals business.  Return on Sales  Merck said the return on sales for the year in the liquid-
crystal unit would be 52 percent instead of the 54 percent
previously forecast. Display makers reduced production due to
lower demand and over-stocking, the company said.  Folded together with an existing Merck chemical unit, Merck
Millipore generated 574 million euros in third-quarter sales, of
which 314 million euros came from Millipore. Revenue from liquid
crystals rose 21 percent to 255 million euros.  “I take a dim view of the idea that the Millipore
acquisition can make you suddenly more positive on Merck,”
Scannell said. At 50 percent more than Millipore’s closing share
price on Feb. 19, the day before it was reported that  Thermo
Fisher Scientific Inc.  had made a takeover offer, the $107-a-
share offer was expensive, he said.  Sales in the Merck Serono drug unit rose 5.7 percent to
1.39 billion euros, with the return on sales rising from 9.4
percent to 15 percent. Drug research and development spending
dropped 4.6 percent to 280 million euros. Merck said in July it
wouldn’t restart a trial of its experimental cancer vaccine
Stimuvax in women with breast cancer, after a patient with a
blood malignancy developed a brain infection while taking the
treatment. Trials in lung cancer patients continue.  Sales of top-selling multiple sclerosis therapy Rebif,
facing fresh competition with the introduction in the U.S. this
month of Novartis’s pill Gilenya, advanced 6.8 percent to 407
million euros. Revenue from Erbitux, sold to treat advanced
colon cancer and head and neck tumors, increased 17 percent to
207 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Darmstadt at  nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  