-- Terra Firma's Hands Lied About Bid, Wormsley Testifies at Trial Over EMI
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2010-10-26T22:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/terra-firma-s-hands-lied-about-bid-citi-s-wormsley-tells-jurors.html
David Wormsley , the  Citigroup Inc. 
banker accused by Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. founder  Guy Hands  of misleading him about an auction of  EMI Group Ltd. , said
he was the victim of a lie told by Hands the weekend before the
bidding in May 2007.  Wormsley, testifying today in a federal court trial in
Manhattan, told jurors that he got a phone call from someone on
EMI’s deal team on Friday, May 18, 2007, before the May 21 bid
deadline. In the phone call, the executive told him that Hands
claimed Wormsley had said that the company’s board would approve
a price of 2.40 pounds ($3.80) a share for the company.  “It was completely and utterly unacceptable to suggest
that I had told him that 240 was acceptable or likely to be
recommended by the board of EMI,” Wormsley told the nine jurors
considering Terra Firma’s $8.3 billion suit against Citigroup.
“I was furious.”  Hands, who won the auction for EMI the following Monday
with a bid of 2.65 pounds a share, claims Wormsley falsely said
in three telephone calls over that weekend that Cerberus Capital
Management LP planned to submit a competing bid for the 113-
year-old music publishing and recording company based in London.  Lone Bidder  Cerberus had decided not to bid, leaving Terra Firma
without competition in the auction. Terra Firma claims that if
it had known the truth, it would have sought more information
about EMI’s business and finances and negotiated a better price.  In his testimony today, Wormsley said he didn’t recall
details of his conversations with Hands leading up to the
bidding.  “I just remember speaking to him over the weekend on the
subject of finance,” Wormsley said.  Wormsley repeatedly said that he and Hands discussed only
Citigroup’s financing of the deal, denying, under questioning by
Terra Firma lawyer  David Boies , that they discussed details of
the Terra Firma bid.  Citigroup says Wormsley didn’t mislead Hands and claims the
suit is the result of disappointment over a money-losing deal.  Wormsley said the conflict with Hands may explain an e-mail
he sent to an EMI executive hours before the Monday 9 a.m.
bidding deadline. In the e-mail, Wormsley said he had spoken
with Hands and told him not to “play games on price.”  Hands, who testified over four days, said Wormsley told him
in three calls before the auction deadline that Cerberus would
submit a bid for 2.62 pounds a share.  Voice-Mail Apology  Wormsley said he insisted that Hands send written
confirmation to him and to  EMI  that they hadn’t discussed a
2.40 pound bid. He testified that Hands apologized to him in a
voice-mail message that had been deleted and was no longer
available.  “I couldn’t let that lie stand,” Wormsley testified
today.  In his questioning of Wormsley, Boies suggested to jurors
that the banker had divided loyalties in the deal.  Citigroup 
acted as an adviser to EMI on the deal and also provided about
$5 billion to Terra Firma to finance the acquisition.  Boies showed Wormsley an e-mail between two other Citigroup
executives the day of the EMI auction.  ‘Congratulations’  “Congratulations on EMI deal,”  David Kirshenbaum  wrote to
 Matthew Smith .  “At last -- and we got paid on the buyside as well as
sellside!” Smith answered.  Boies questioned Wormsley about a 2009 presentation titled
“Keys to a Successful Sell-Side Process” that he gave to a
group of graduate finance students. One of the points encouraged
the students to “maintain competitive tension” in an auction
for a company.  “If you have only one party interested in an auction, that
one party will generally have more leverage than if you have
multiple parties,” Boies suggested to Wormsley.  “It’s always better to have two rather than one, yes,”
Wormsley responded.  Wormsley, 50, who was called yesterday as a hostile witness
by Terra Firma, is scheduled to continue his testimony tomorrow.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 