-- Ethiopia Plans to Rent Out Belgium-Sized Land Area to Produce Cash Crops
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-10-26T12:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ethiopia-plans-to-rent-out-belgium-sized-land-area-to-produce-cash-crops.html
Ethiopia will lease a land area
about the size of Belgium to private investors for growing rice,
cotton and other crops aimed at generating foreign-exchange, an
Agriculture Ministry official said.  The  Horn of Africa  nation plans to rent out 3 million
hectares (5 million acres) of farmland over the next five years,
Abera Deressa, minister of state for agriculture, said in an
interview in Addis Ababa, the capital, on Oct. 22.  The strategy forms part of a government policy that also
aims to wean Africa’s second-most populous nation off a donor-
funded food program that supports 7.8 million Ethiopians.  “Everywhere we want to increase the amount of land to be
leased,” Abera said. “We have abundant land available.”  Ethiopia’s government has identified agriculture as the
“major source” of the 11 percent growth rate targeted by the
Finance Ministry in a five-year economic plan unveiled in
August. The industry accounts for 80 percent of exports and 43
percent of gross domestic product in Africa’s biggest coffee-
producing nation, Abera said.  Since August 2009, Ethiopia has leased about 200,000
hectares of land to 16 domestic and foreign companies, according
to the Agriculture Ministry. Ten of the investors have started
developing their allocated plots.  Saudi Star Agricultural Development Plc, owned by
Ethiopian-born Saudi billionaire  Sheikh Mohammed al-Amoudi , has
taken 10,000 hectares in the low-lying western Gambella region,
while  Karuturi Global Ltd.  of India has leased more than 300,000
hectares in Gambella and Baka, according to its website.  Food Aid  The government is advising American, Canadian, Chinese,
Ethiopian and Indian investors to grow “high value” crops
including soya beans, palm oil and bio-fuels, rather than
cereals, to help feed the approximately 13 million Ethiopians
that require some form of food aid, Abera said.  “If we get money we can buy food anywhere,” he said. “Then
we can solve the food problem.”  The cost of plots ranges from 111 Ethiopian birr ($6.89)
per hectare in peripheral areas such as Gambella and the north-
westerly Benishangul Gumuz region, to 2,000 birr per hectare in
the fertile Ethiopian Rift Valley adjacent to Addis Ababa, Abera
said. Investors are being offered “good prices” to encourage
investment, he said.  “Ideologically we are against rent seeking,” he said. “We
want to see productive economic activity. We want to see
investment. The advantage is more than from the land rent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  