-- European Stocks Retreat as UBS, ArcelorMittal, Cairn Energy Lead Declines
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-10-26T16:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/european-stock-index-futures-retreat-arcelormittal-ubs-shares-may-slide.html
European  stocks retreated after UBS
AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, reported a surprise investment-
banking loss and ArcelorMittal forecast a decline in earnings,
overshadowing better-than-forecast U.K. economic growth.  UBS tumbled 5 percent after reporting quarter-on-quarter
drop in revenue from fixed income, currencies and commodities.
ArcelorMittal sank 5 percent as it reiterated a “cautious”
outlook for the fourth quarter.  Software AG  paced advancing
shares after the company raised its full-year earnings forecast.  The  Stoxx 600  lost 0.2 percent to 266.92 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London, as more than two companies fell for every one
that rose. The gauge has still rallied 15 percent since May 25
as concern eased that the global economy may slip back into
recession. The gain has left the index within 2 percent of this
year’s high in April.  “There are tougher times ahead for the banks,”  Lothar Mentel , chief investment officer at Octopus Investments Ltd.,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s ‘On The Move’
with  Rishaad Salamat . “I wouldn’t put my very long-term money
in the banks. They will have to work very hard to keep up with
the rest.”  National benchmark indexes retreated in 15 of the 17
western European markets that were open. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100
Index  lost 0.8 percent and France’s CAC 40 Index dropped 0.5
percent. Germany’s DAX Index retreated 0.4 percent. Austrian
markets were closed for a national holiday today.  U.K. Economy  Stocks pared some losses earlier today as a government
report showed Britain’s economy grew in the third quarter as
services and construction helped sustain the recovery’s
momentum, easing pressure on officials to introduce further
stimulus.  Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the three months
through September after increasing 1.2 percent in the previous
quarter, the Office for National Statistics said. After the
announcement, Standard Poor’s raised its outlook on the U.K.’s
debt rating to stable from negative.  Of the 66 companies on the Stoxx 600 that have reported
results since Oct. 7, 46, or 70 percent, have reported higher-
than-estimated  per-share earnings , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 85 percent of S&P 500 companies
that have beaten  forecasts  in the same period, the data show.  UBS  sank 5 percent to 16.76 Swiss francs after the bank
reported reduced flows from cash equities and a quarter-on-
quarter decline in revenue from fixed income, currencies and
commodities. Wealth management revenue decreased because of
lower client activity. A measure of bank shares on the Stoxx 600
lost 0.8 percent, one of the biggest drops of the 19 industry
groups that comprise the benchmark index.  ArcelorMittal Retreats  ArcelorMittal  retreated 5 percent to 23.78 euros after the
world’s largest steelmaker forecast fourth-quarter earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $1.5
billion to $1.9 billion, missing the $2.44 billion average
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Our outlook for the fourth quarter remains cautious as
the expected higher input prices continue to work through the
business and demand remains muted,” Chief Executive Officer
 Lakshmi Mittal  said.  Cairn Energy  Plc slumped 7.2 percent to 382.5 pence, its
biggest retreat since March 2009. The explorer selling its
Indian operations to Vedanta Resources Plc will write off the
$185 million cost of two wells near Greenland after they failed
to make any commercial discoveries. Cairn plugged and abandoned
both wells as the summer drilling season ended. BofA Merrill
Lynch Global Research downgraded the shares to “neutral” from
“buy.”  Oriflame Sinks  Oriflame AB  tumbled 10 percent to 390 kronor, the largest
drop in six months, after the Swedish maker of cosmetics said
third-quarter net income fell to 7.1 million euros ($9.9
million) from 13.4 million euros a year earlier.  Hermes International SCA  slumped 12 percent to 179 euros.
Index-tracking funds may dump about 1 million shares in Hermes
as a stake purchase by LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA will
cut its weight in benchmarks, according to John Carson, a
London-based analyst at Societe Generale SA.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S  plunged 10 percent to 179.30 kroner
after the world’s largest maker of wind turbines said orders
will decline next year and that it will cut 3,000 jobs because
of reduced demand.  Software AG Climbs  Software  jumped 7.4 percent to 102.20 euros, the best
performer on the Stoxx 600. Germany’s second-largest software
maker reported a 20 percent increase in third-quarter profit to
45.6 million euros and raised its forecast for the full year.  Net income beat the 38 million-euro average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Carnival Plc, the largest cruise-ship operator, advanced
4.3 percent to 2,768 pence after smaller rival, Royal Caribbean
Cruises Ltd., raised its 2010 profit forecast and predicted
record earnings next year, boosted by increased ticket prices.
The shares jumped 13 percent in New York trading.  Royal KPN NV , the largest Dutch phone company, advanced 1.9
percent to 11.75 euros as third-quarter profit climbed and Chief
Executive Officer  Ad Scheepbouwer  said he’s confident of
achieving the company’s earnings outlook for 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 