-- European Gasoline Barges Drop; Glencore Sells Two Diesel Cargoes to Conoco
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-10-26T16:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/european-gasoline-barges-drop-glencore-sells-two-diesel-cargoes-to-conoco.html
European  gasoline  dropped as oil-
product deliveries resumed from Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Gravenchon
refinery after striking workers returned to work.  OAO Lukoil’s Litasco trading unit bought a diesel cargo for
a second day, while Glencore International AG sold two diesel
shipments to ConocoPhillips. Gasoline crack spreads narrowed for
the first day in four.  Brent crude for December delivery fell 6 cents to $83.48 a
barrel on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 5:31 p.m.
local time. The contract gained 0.7 percent to $83.54 a barrel
yesterday.  LIGHT PRODUCTS  European gasoline barges in northwest Europe traded from
$743 to $748 a ton, according to a Bloomberg survey of traders
and brokers monitoring the Argus Bulletin Board and the Platts
pricing window.  Trafigura Beheer BV and Chevron Corp. were among the
sellers while Cargill Inc. bought the Eurobob grade fuel,
according to the survey. Ethanol is added to Eurobob before it’s
sold to motorists.  Gasoline barges traded as high as $779 a ton earlier this
month as French refineries were forced to halt, curbing supply.
Workers at refineries owned by  Total SA , which also bought in
today’s gasoline barge market, are still on strike. Barge deals
are usually for loads of no more than 5,000 tons.  The so-called  gasoline crack , which is the difference
between the fuel price and Brent crude, narrowed to $4 a barrel,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd. on Bloomberg.
That’s down from $4.20 a barrel yesterday.  MIDDLE DISTILLATES  Four diesel cargoes were sold in the Platts trading window,
priced at premiums to the November gasoil futures contract on
ICE, which fell $1.75 to $708.50 a ton as of 5:33 p.m. London
time.  Litasco, also a diesel cargo buyer yesterday, agreed to pay
a premium of $34 a ton for a 20,000-ton cargo of ultra low
sulfur diesel from Noble Group Ltd., the Platts survey showed.
That deal is for delivery to Le Havre.  Glencore’s deals with Conoco were priced at a premium of
$32 for delivery to Le Havre and $33 for delivery to Bremen,
Germany, the survey showed. Royal Dutch Shell Plc sold a 12,500-
ton diesel shipment to Hess’ Hetco unit for delivery to London
Thames.  Litasco also bought a 10,000-ton gasoil cargo of gasoil
from Vitol Group, the survey showed.  FRENCH STRIKES  Workers at Exxon Mobil Corp.’s plants are back at work and
deliveries of oil products have started from stockpiles at the
Gravenchon plant, said  Catherine Brun , a company spokeswoman.  The 233,000 barrel-a-day Gravenchon refinery, which depends
on crude supplies from Le Havre, is still waiting to resume
production as a port strike continues, she said. Port workers in
Marseille have been on strike since the end of last month.  Employees at Petroplus Holdings AG’s Petit Couronne
refinery will vote later today whether to continue their labor
action, Sevillane Lambret, a CFDT union representative for the
site, said by phone.  REFINERY NEWS  Valero Energy Corp.  is looking at “better” refineries
being offered for sale in Europe, Chief Executive Officer Bill
Klesse said on an investor conference call today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  