-- Ex-PWS CEO Messent Sentenced to 21 Months in U.K. Insurance-Bribery Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-10-26T13:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ex-pws-ceo-messent-sentenced-to-21-months-in-u-k-insurance-bribery-probe.html
Julian Messent , the former chief
executive officer of PWS International Ltd., was sentenced to 21
months in prison for paying about $2 million in bribes to win
reinsurance contracts in Costa Rica.  Messent, 50, was also fined 100,000 pounds ($159,000) by
Judge  Geoffrey Rivlin  in London today for funneling money to at
least three Costa Rican officials to retain contracts with
state-owned telecommunications, electricity and insurance
companies. Messent pleaded guilty last week to two counts of
corruption for making 41 payments from 1999 until 2002, some of
which went to bank accounts in Panama and Miami held by the
officials, while others went to their wives.  “You were deeply involved” in paying the bribes, Rivlin
said today at Messent’s sentencing. “The corrupt sums which you
authorized represent a loss to the Republic of Costa Rica.”  By making the improper payments to keep the contracts,
Messent made a 265,000-pound profit, Rivlin said. Messent was a
director in charge of the firm’s Latin America group when the
payments were made and was later promoted to CEO post.  “The more brokerage which you generated and the less you
had to pay out in commission, the greater the division’s
profitability and your own bonus,” Rivlin said.  The Serious Fraud Office isn’t prosecuting anyone else in
the case and hasn’t filed charges against PWS, a London-based
insurance brokerage formerly known as Pearson Webb Springbett.  Lord Pearson  PWS was founded in 1964 by  Lord Malcolm Pearson , a member
of the House of Lords and the former head of the U.K.
Independence Party, a libertarian group that wants Britain to
withdraw from the European Union. Most of the firm’s assets were
bought by  THB Group Plc  in 2008 and what remains of PWS is being
liquidated.  Messent’s lawyer, Eve Giles of Kingsley Napley LLP,
declined to immediately comment after the sentencing.  “This case shows how determined we are to pursue
businessmen who bribe,” SFO Director  Richard Alderman  said in a
statement today.  The fine will be paid to the Costa Rican government, Rivlin
said, and good behavior in prison could result in Messent
serving only about half the sentence. He was sentenced to 21
months on each count, with the terms to be served concurrently.
Messent, who could have received as much as five years in
prison, had his sentence reduced because he cooperated and
didn’t initiate the corruption, Rivlin said.  Not Alone  Bribes totaling about $1.98 million were paid to the former
president of the Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad as well
as the then-president and ex-head of reinsurance at the
Instituto Nacional de Seguros, Rivlin said.  Rivlin said he “accepted” that Messent didn’t act alone
in making the payments, and “did not attempt to hide or
disguise these payments” within the company or in accounting
records. The judge disqualified him from acting as a company
director for five years.  Messent, of Beaconsfield, England, joined PWS in 1995 and
became a director in its Latin America group the following year.
He was promoted to CEO in 2003, Perry said. The bribes “first
surfaced” in 2005, and after an internal investigation, Messent
stepped down from his post in 2006.  Costa Rican prosecutors are investigating 10 people for
accepting bribes in the case and a trial is scheduled for next
year, Malek said. The SFO has also been contacted by prosecutors
in Panama and the United States about the case, he said.  The sentence is the second conviction the Serious Fraud
Office has won in an overseas corruption case. Earlier this
year, Robert John Dougall, a former employee at a Johnson &
Johnson unit in the U.K., was sentenced to a year in prison
after pleading guilty to paying 4.5 million pounds in bribes to
win orthopedic products contracts in Greece. An appeals court
later overturned his sentence citing his cooperation.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 