-- Ex-Rocker Hall Vies to Be `Still the One' for U.S. House Seat in New York
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-10-26T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ex-rocker-hall-vies-to-be-still-the-one-for-u-s-house-seat-in-new-york.html
Rock musician-turned-politician
 John Hall , elected in the 2006 wave of victories that gave
Democrats control of the U.S. House, spent the last four years
working to consolidate his hold on a  district  anchored in New
York’s Hudson Valley.  He has focused on veterans’ issues, health care and the
small businesses that drive the economy in a district spread
over five counties. He visits senior centers and entrepreneurs,
marches in holiday parades, and kayaks down the Hudson River
with constituents. He helped push the Small Business Jobs Act
through Congress, which funneled new loan money to banks.  After defeating six-term Republican  Sue Kelly  to first win
his seat with 51 percent of the vote, Hall sailed to re-election
in 2008 with 59 percent. This year, the former guitarist and
songwriter for  Orleans , known for the 1976 hit “Still the
One,” is among scores of Democrats nationwide fighting to hold
their seats as polls show the party may lose its House majority
in the Nov. 2 elections.  In more typical political times “most freshmen do get re-
elected, and sophomores are even more likely, because they
overcome the first wave of opposition,” said  Robert Erikson , a
political scientist at New York’s Columbia University. “But
this will be offset by the partisan tide” this year that may
give Republicans the net gain of 39 seats they need for House
control.  Vulnerable Democrats  In New York, the upstate seat that Democrat  Eric Massa 
resigned from in March is rated a  likely Republican pickup  by
analysts. As many as seven other Democrats among the 26 in New
York’s House delegation are viewed as  vulnerable to defeat .  Hall, 62, is being challenged by Republican Nan Hayworth,
50, an ophthalmologist and advertising executive whose backers
include Tea Party activists promoting reduced government.  A survey released Oct. 19 by Monmouth University in West
Long Branch, New Jersey, judged the race “a virtual tie,” the
pollsters said in a  statement , with Hall at 49 percent and
Hayworth at 48 percent. The poll’s margin of error is plus-or-
minus 3.9 percentage points.  The candidates had roughly the same amount of cash on hand
for the campaign’s final weeks, with Hall reporting $268,037 as
of Oct. 13 and Hayworth $265,590, according to the Federal
Election Commission. Hayworth had spent $1.5 million, loaned her
campaign $500,000, and taken more than $220,000 from political
action committees and campaign committees, the FEC figures show.
Hall had spent almost $1.9 million, taken no loans, and accepted
$560,000 from campaign committees and PACs.  Dueling Videos  The campaign has been marked by dueling on-line videos.
Four young Hayworth supporters remixed Orleans’ 1975 hit “Dance
With Me,” changing the lyrics to:  “Vote With Me ; Let’s Get
John Hall to Leave D.C.”  Hall, who organized the 1979 “No Nukes” concerts that
brought together  Bruce Springsteen ,  Jackson Browne  and  Graham Nash , got old friends to  remix  “Still the One” as “He’s Still
the One We Need in Washington.”  Hall is stressing his work for the district rather than
broader national issues. At a senior-citizens home last month in
Poughkeepsie, he told his listeners he helped bring a solar
panel factory to the Hudson Valley and corralled federal dollars
to build sewage plants, keep open hospitals and post
offices, and start job-training programs.  “My opponent has pledged not to ask for earmarks,” Hall
said in an interview, referring to federal funding that
lawmakers seek for home-district projects. “That means our tax
dollars will go to pay for projects in Texas and Alaska.”  Pelosi Link  Hayworth scorns Hall as a  tax-and-spend Democrat  who
marches in lockstep with House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of
California and ignores the plight of the region’s small
businesses. She cites his vote for the health-care overhaul
Congress passed in March, saying it will weigh down businesses
with extra costs.  “He’s voted 98 percent of the time for an agenda put
forward by Nancy Pelosi in ways that would damage our economy,”
Hayworth told an audience of physicians at the Harness Racing
Hall of Fame in Goshen last month. The doctors applauded when
she pledged to dismantle the health-care measure.  “This election’s about the economy in the state of New
York,” Hayworth said in an interview. The wars in Afghanistan
and Iraq have “been eclipsed by the economy, and people feel
they haven’t been heard.”  Premium Increase  Seth Arluck, a lumberyard owner in New Hampton who’s been
campaigning for Hayworth, said Hall hasn’t done enough for small
business. He showed a reporter a notice from his insurer raising
his business-related health-care premiums by 25.7 percent. He
blames the health-care overhaul.  “It’s not a beef with John Hall, but this economy is being
torn to shreds by the people in power,” said Arluck.  Donna McLean, owner of Anew Spa, a beauty and massage salon
in New Windsor, is the type of voter Hall is counting on to win
a third term.  “I’m a registered Republican and I adore John Hall,”
largely because of his push for the small-business aid bill that
became law Sept. 27. It made $30 billion in unspent funds
from the bank-rescue plan, the Troubled Asset Relief Program,
available to small businesses through local lenders. McLean
wants a $30,000 loan to buy a skin-care machine.  “He got that into law, and now I can go to  Walden Savings 
and get the loan,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  