-- Lexmark Third-Quarter Profit Tops Estimates; CEO to Retire
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   A r i k   H e s s e l d a h l
-- 2010-10-26T12:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/lexmark-third-quarter-profit-tops-estimates-ceo-plans-to-retire-in-2011.html
Lexmark International Inc. , the
maker of laser and inkjet printers, posted a sevenfold jump in
third-quarter profit that topped analysts’  estimates  and said
Chief Executive Officer  Paul Curlander  will retire.  Net income rose to $72 million, or 90 cents a share, from
$10 million, or 13 cents, a year earlier, the Lexington,
Kentucky-based company said today in a statement. Profit
excluding some items was $1.09 a share, exceeding the 98-cent
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Curlander, 57, plans to retire in the spring of 2011,
Lexmark said. As part of a planned management-succession
process, he was named executive chairman today. Curlander joined
Lexmark at the time of its spinoff from International Business
Machines Corp. in 1991.  Paul Rooke , 52, will succeed him as CEO.  Rooke has been with the company since its formation, most
recently as executive vice president and president of the
imaging solutions division since July 2007. Prior to that, he
served as president of Lexmark’s Printing Solutions and Services
Division, the company’s largest unit.  Lexmark is competing with rivals including  Hewlett-Packard
Co.  to persuade computer users to print more content from the
Web. The company said yesterday it would provide a software kit
to programmers to design business-oriented printing applications
for its Internet-connected printers.  Lexmark fell as much as 8.8 percent to $43.50 in early U.S.
trading after adding 80 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $47.72
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The
 shares  have gained 84 percent this year.  Retail Presence  Lexmark is expanding its retail presence by putting its
printers into Best Buy Co. stores in the U.S.,  William Fearnley Jr ., an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott in Boston, said in an
Oct. 20 research note to clients.  “It remains to be seen when this will be accretive to
revenues and earnings,” said Fearnley, who has a “ neutral ”
rating on Lexmark.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
 Arik Hesseldahl  in New York at 
 ahesseldahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  