-- Lexmark Declines on CEO Retirement, Sales Forecast
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   A r i k   H e s s e l d a h l
-- 2010-10-26T21:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/lexmark-falls-as-ceo-retires-sales-forecast-trails-estimates.html
Lexmark International Inc. , the
maker of laser and inkjet printers, fell after forecasting
fourth-quarter sales that trailed some analysts’ estimates and
saying Chief Executive Officer  Paul Curlander  will retire.  Lexmark dropped $10.01, or 21 percent, to $37.71 in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . It was Lexmark’s biggest
decline since Oct. 4, 2005. The  shares  had gained 84 percent
this year before today.  Curlander, 57, who plans to retire in the spring of 2011,
was named executive chairman today as part of a management-
succession process, Lexmark said. The Lexington, Kentucky-based
company said fourth-quarter sales will grow in the “low single-
digit range,” while analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg estimated an
average gain of 4 percent to $1.12 billion.  “It seems their core business has decelerated,”
 Christopher Whitmore , an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in San
Francisco, said in an interview. “The sudden announcement of a
management change was just pouring gas on the fire.”  Curlander said in an interview the succession had been
planned for a long time.  “I have been CEO at Lexmark for 12½ years,” he said. “In
that time, Hewlett-Packard has been through four CEOs and Xerox
has been through five, so I have a hard time seeing why people
should be surprised by this.”  Curlander joined Lexmark when it was spun off from
International Business Machines Corp. in 1991. He will be
succeeded by  Paul Rooke , 52, who has been with the company since
its formation, most recently as executive vice president and
president of the imaging solutions division since July 2007.  Laser-Printer Market  During the third quarter, Lexmark’s inventories climbed to
about $392 million, an increase of 9.7 percent from a year
earlier and about 16 percent from the second quarter of this
year. That indicates demand is slowing, said Whitmore, who has a
“hold” rating on the shares.  “The laser printer market has been supply-constrained for
the past six months,” he said.  Curlander said boosting inventories was part of Lexmark’s
plan to address shortages that the company encountered earlier
in the year.  “We set out to bring in a bunch more product and to catch
up with the back-orders to replenish our inventory,” he said.
“We knew we were taking a risk of overshooting, but we wanted
to build things back to the level we thought appropriate.”  Some of the inventory gain is related to deals that haven’t
yet been completed, he said.  An additional weakness was European sales, Whitmore said.
Including currency fluctuations, sales in Europe, the Middle
East and Africa decreased 4 percent, the company said in a
 presentation  to analysts and investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
 Arik Hesseldahl  in New York at 
 ahesseldahl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 