-- Facebook Backer Mail.ru Said to Get Bids for All Shares in IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-10-26T09:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/facebook-backer-mail-ru-said-to-get-bids-for-all-shares-in-ipo.html
Mail.ru Group Ltd., a Russian
investor in Facebook Inc., has drawn orders for all the stock on
sale in its $876 million initial public offering in London, two
people with knowledge of the talks said.  The banks arranging the sale expect to set the final price
for the stock in the week of Nov. 8, said one of the people, who
declined to be named because the talks are private. Mail.ru,
partly owned by billionaire  Alisher Usmanov  and South Africa’s
Naspers Ltd., is selling 31.6 million global depository receipts
for $23.70 to $27.70 each. The company’s owners may reap as much
as $792 million from selling their stake in the IPO, and Mail.ru
may raise up to $83.1 million, the terms show.  Mail.ru’s IPO, if successful, will be the biggest in U.K.
since Nathaniel Rothschild’s mining fund, Vallar Plc, raised $1
billion in July. The sale would also be the largest overseas
share offering by a Russian company since Moscow-based United
Co. Rusal raised $2.24 billion in Hong Kong in January.  Russian companies are planning the biggest wave of IPOs
since before the credit crisis as bond yields at near-record
lows stoke investor appetite for higher returns from equities.
O’Key Group SA, Russia’s third-biggest food retailer, is
planning to raise $540 million in London this year, while
Severstal’s gold unit, Nord Gold NV, may seek $1 billion, three
people familiar with the talks said Oct. 19.  Founders Offering Shares  Mail.ru founders Gregory Finger, Yuri Milner and Mikhail
Vinchel will sell shares in the IPO, the terms show. The company
will use some of the money raised to finance the $112.5 million
acquisition of an additional 7.5 percent stake in vKontakte, a
Russian social network service, according to a statement
yesterday. Mail.ru will own 32.49 percent of the service after
the transaction.  The Moscow-based company owns 2.4 percent of Facebook, 5.1
percent of Groupon Inc. and 1.5 percent of Zynga Game Network,
according to an Oct. 11 statement. The three stakes may be worth
a total of $900 million, more than double their combined book
value of $340 million, according to analysts at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., which owns 1 percent of the Russian company and is
among the banks arranging the IPO.  Mail.ru’s revenue may jump 51 percent this year to $301
million, while earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization are likely to rise 70 percent to $104 million, the
Goldman Sachs analysts said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Russia’s VTB
Capital are also arranging the IPO. A call to Mail.ru’s
spokesman in London wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net  