-- Fed's `Pit Bull' Takes on Bank of America in BuyBack Battle
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h ,   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/fed-blackrock-hire-pit-bull-on-steroids-to-get-bad-mortgage-bond-refund.html
Kathy D. Patrick is a  Houston lawyer
who spends her Sundays teaching children about God. The rest of
the week, according to one attorney who knows her, she can be
“as frightening as a pit bull on steroids.”  That’s bad news for issuers of mortgage-backed securities
like Bank of America Corp. Patrick represents bond investors
including the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and  BlackRock
Inc.  who are seeking to force the bank to buy back bad home
loans, claiming the debt failed to match contractual promises
about its quality.  Her law firm,  Gibbs & Bruns LLP , is a 30-lawyer outfit that
says it specializes in “bet the company” litigation. This
month, it reached a settlement with  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and
Bank of Montreal stemming from an alleged fraud at a Canadian
gold company. Earlier this year,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and
UBS AG settled with the firm over the sale of $550 million in
mortgage-backed securities. Patrick reached that settlement on
behalf of her clients just two months after filing suit.  Patrick, 50, is “fearless and tenacious,” said  Dan Cogdell , a Houston criminal-defense lawyer who said she is
capable of pit bull-like aggressiveness “if the need be.” If
she succeeds in getting Bank of America to settle, it may
trigger more calls for buybacks in the $1.4 trillion market for
so-called non-agency mortgage securities, which lack government
backing.  Bank costs from repurchasing mortgages in such securities
may total as much as $179.2 billion, including expenses related
to suits against bond underwriters,  Chris Gamaitoni , a Compass
Point Research and Trading LLC analyst, estimated in August.  $1.73 Billion  In June 2009, Patrick got  Credit Suisse Group AG  and
Deutsche Bank AG to agree to pay $1.73 billion to end litigation
over their decision to back out of the leveraged buyout of
 Huntsman Corp.  Her firm is suing Zurich-based Credit Suisse as
bond underwriter for a now-defunct Ohio company that sold
securities based on health-care providers’ unpaid bills.  “She has a deep understanding of the banking process and
the constraints, motivations and incentives of the banking
industry,” said  Harry M. Reasoner , a partner at  Vinson & Elkins
LLP  in Houston, who also represented Huntsman.  In the fight against Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank
of America, Patrick represents the biggest bond investors in the
U.S., including Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs
the world’s biggest bond fund.  $47 Billion  On Oct. 18, she wrote Bank of America and  Bank of New York 
Mellon Corp., the trustee for $47 billion of bonds created by
Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial unit. In the letter, she
accused Countrywide of failing to service the home loans
properly. Her clients want Bank of America, which bought
Countrywide in 2008, to take back some of the underlying loans,
and are questioning its servicing as a way to broaden their
legal options, Patrick said the next day.  “We continue to review and assess the letter, and have a
number of questions about its content, including whether these
investors have standing to bring these claims,” Bank of America
Chief Financial Officer  Charles H. Noski  said Oct. 19 on a
conference call with analysts. “We continue to believe the
servicer is in compliance with the servicing obligations.”  Jeffrey V. Smith, a spokesman for the New York Fed, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  “The contracts say we win,” Patrick said in an interview
earlier this month. “It may take a short time or a long time.”
She declined to comment further on the case or to be interviewed
for this story at the request of her clients.  “It’s great to see somebody stepping up to the plate and
taking action, even if it may not be the most well-conceived
effort,” Isaac Gradman, an attorney and San Francisco-based
consultant, said in an e-mail.  Patrick’s Clients  Patrick’s clients may find themselves unable to force a
buyback because they failed to point out problems with
Countrywide’s servicing of specific loans, said Gradman,
formerly a lawyer at Howard Rice Nemerovski Canady Falk & Rabkin
PC. He represented mortgage insurer PMI Group Inc. in a settled
lawsuit over similar issues against General Electric Co. and its
defunct mortgage unit.  Gibbs & Bruns  was founded in 1983 and specializes in
complex commercial cases. Last year, American Lawyer, a law firm
trade publication, named it one of the top four U.S. litigation
“boutiques.”  Patrick, a partner, focuses on securities, creditor-
recovery and institutional-investor cases, according to the
firm. She is a graduate of Harvard Law School and the University
of Texas at El Paso.  ‘Very Smart’  “Kathy is very good at simplifying things for jurors, and
she’s very smart,”  Irv Terrell , the partner at Houston-based
 Baker Botts LLP  who represented the banks in the Huntsman case,
said in a telephone interview.  Last month, New York-based BNY Mellon said it would ignore
Patrick’s demand that the trustee investigate whether Bank of
America should repurchase loans that didn’t follow requirements
in the trust documents.  At the time,  Kevin Heine , a spokesman for BNY Mellon, said
Patrick’s letter did “not comply with multiple requirements”
and declined to comment further.  Patrick represents investors who own at least 25 percent of
voting rights in the deals and stand to recover “many billions
of dollars,” she has said.  In signing onto the Oct. 18 letter, the New York Fed joined
a group including Munich-based Allianz SE’s Pimco, Freddie Mac
and  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S. life insurer. The institution
acquired mortgage debt through its 2008 rescues of Bear Stearns
Cos. and American International Group Inc.  Contractual Obligations  Countrywide hasn’t met its contractual obligations as a
servicer because it hasn’t asked for loan repurchases, is
failing to keep adequate records and is taking too long with
foreclosures, Patrick has said.  If the faults aren’t fixed within 60 days, BNY Mellon
should declare Countrywide in default on its servicing
contracts, Patrick said previously. Her clients then could have
the right to pursue legal action against Bank of America, Bank
of New York or both, according to the lawyer.  “We play no role in managing individual loans held in the
trust,”  Ron Gruendl , a spokesman for BNY Mellon, said in an e-
mail. “That responsibility falls to the servicer.”  Patrick, who clerked at Vinson & Elkins, teaches Sunday
school and is married to a divinity-school student, said
Reasoner, a former Vinson & Elkins managing partner.  ‘Tough-Minded’  “She’s very tough-minded, and extremely well-prepared,”
Reasoner said. “She would not take a case on unless she thought
she had a real shot at prevailing.” Barrett H. Reasoner,
Reasoner’s son, is a partner at Patrick’s law firm.  Patrick’s interest in the world of securitization began
with the 2002 implosion of National Century Financial
Enterprises Inc., the Dublin, Ohio-based company that bought
unpaid bills from health-care providers and sold securities it
promised would be backed by the anticipated revenue.  She represents institutional bondholders, including Pimco
and the state of Arizona, which held more than half of the $3
billion in NCFE notes outstanding when a fraud was discovered
there. The company eventually went bankrupt.  Gibbs & Bruns has recovered $600 million in settlements so
far in that case, including $425 million from New York-based
JPMorgan, trustee on the notes, according to her law firm. She
is still pursuing the case against underwriter Credit Suisse.  “NCFE is probably the largest corporate fraud that most
people have never heard of because it involves investment grade
notes sold to government entities, banks and mutual funds,”
Patrick said in 2006.  Mutual, Hedge Funds  She also represented 11 mutual funds and three hedge funds,
including Short Hills, New Jersey-based Appaloosa Investment LP,
seeking to recover about $42 million in damages from JPMorgan
and Bank of Montreal stemming from the alleged fraud at Bre-X
Minerals Ltd. The Calgary-based company’s claim to have a gold
reserve in Indonesia proved to be a hoax. Terms of the
settlement this month weren’t disclosed.  Patrick represented Pimco in a suit filed last year against
Goldman Sachs, Zurich-based UBS and Ally Financial Inc.’s
Residential Accredit Loans Inc., a Minneapolis-based bundler of
home loans, over what Pimco said were misstatements in
connection with its purchase of more than $550 million in
mortgage-backed notes.  The case was filed Nov. 13 in federal court in Los Angeles
and voluntarily dismissed Jan. 19, after it settled. Terms
weren’t disclosed. New York-based Goldman Sachs underwrote the
notes and UBS sold them.  Balked at Funding  In the Huntsman case, which Patrick also tried with name
partner  Robin Gibbs , Credit Suisse and Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank balked at funding the private-equity deal after they
determined the global recession hurt demand for the combined
companies’ products and made syndicating the deal’s debt
impossible.  The banks’ lawyers argued their clients were doing their
job in refusing to lend billions of dollars to companies that
couldn’t repay. Documents introduced at the Conroe, Texas, state
court trial supported the banks’ claim that the combination of
Huntsman, a Salt Lake City-based chemical company, and Apollo
Management LLP’s specialty chemicals unit could have been
insolvent from the start.  Patrick, seeking to capitalize on news of bank bailouts
that was dominating headlines during the trial, portrayed Credit
Suisse and Deutsche Bank as villains that made promises they
never intended to keep.  ‘What They Promise’  “This case is about whether people should be held to what
they promise,” she said before the trial began.  Some Huntsman owners complained that the banks got off easy
with their $1.73 billion settlement in cash and loans, reached
two weeks into the trial. At the time the banks pulled out of
the deal, in October 2008, they had calculated their losses at
about $8 billion, according to court papers.  Switzerland-based investor  George Bessenyei , a market
analyst at Oxford Capital AG, said at the time that “the
settlement does not reflect the damages that the banks and
Apollo’s action caused to the company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in New York at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 