-- Femsa CEO Says Monterrey Reacting to Solve Problem of Drug Gang Violence
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-10-26T08:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/femsa-ceo-says-monterrey-reacting-to-solve-problem-of-drug-gang-violence.html
Mexican authorities and civil
organizations in the northern city of Monterrey are taking the
right steps to combat rising violence, said  Jose Antonio Fernandez , chief executive of Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB.  Leaders were caught off guard by the magnitude of the drug-
related violence in Monterrey and didn’t move quickly enough to
quell it, Fernandez said during a speech in the city last night.  “Now that we’ve realized that the problem is much more
serious that what we thought, we’re reacting,” Fernandez said.
“Things are beginning to happen to resolve this.”  Almost 30,000 people have been killed since Mexican
President  Felipe Calderon  took office in December 2006 and
cracked down on organized crime by sending soldiers to cities
where violence has flared.  Criminals have stepped up attacks in the Monterrey area
this month with the use of grenades, injuring a dozen people in
the downtown plaza of a suburb and leaving four officers hurt at
a state police headquarters.  Fernandez called on people to unite to fend off the crime
wave.  Femsa , as the holding company for Latin America’s largest
Coca-Cola bottler and Mexico’s largest convenience-store chain
is known, is funding organizations that are helping fight crime,
he said, without naming them.  “Everybody participates in society, not just the
government. It’s unjust for someone to say, ‘This is President
Calderon’s war.’ That’s ridiculous,” he said. “This is
everyone’s war to have a more just and clean society.”  Monterrey isn’t as violent as the media portrays, Fernandez
said. The city’s crime rate is still better than several cities
in Latin America and even the U.S., he said, without naming
them. Monterrey was renowned for being safe and that has given a
sense that the violence is worse, he said.  “In relative terms, we’re in very bad shape from where we
were,” Fernandez said. “Monterrey was a city practically
without crime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 