-- Financier Flowers Targets New Jersey Bank in Rare Private-Equity Takeover
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-26T16:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/financier-flowers-targets-new-jersey-bank-in-rare-private-equity-takeover.html
Financier  J. Christopher Flowers  won
U.S. approval to buy a two-branch bank in New Jersey, in a rare
bank takeover by a private-equity fund manager that may revive a
debate about such investors’ role in the banking system.  The U.S. Office of Thrift Supervision cleared the purchase
of the  Saddle River Valley Bank  by seven funds set up for that
purpose by Flowers, according to an Oct. 14  approval letter  on
the OTS Web site. The bank has $82.8 million of assets. Terms of
the deal weren’t disclosed.  Federal regulators restrict private-equity investments in
banks, arguing that such owners might put depositors’ money at
risk. The OTS’s decision last year to allow a similar takeover
in Michigan sparked criticism from Congress and tighter
regulation by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  “For private-equity firms, there may still be some
flexibility in the thrift charter for them to invest in banks,”
said  Ralph “Chip” MacDonald , an Atlanta-based banking lawyer
at Jones Day.  The Saddle River bank transaction is the first so-called
silo deal by a private-equity fund manager, which walls off the
stake from other investments, that the OTS has approved since
2009, according to  William Ruberry , a spokesman for the agency.
He declined to comment further.  “We can’t comment on a pending transaction,” said
John Bianchi, a spokesman for J.C. Flowers & Co.  Deposits  The bank opened in 2006 in suburban Saddle River, New
Jersey, and had $76.3 million of deposits as of June 30. Karen
Hall, chief financial officer of Saddle River Valley Bank,
declined to comment on the acquisition.  Flowers, 52, is known for takeovers of big financial
companies, such as Japan’s Shinsei Bank. The New Jersey bank
wouldn’t be Flowers’s first foray into small-town banking. In
2008, he personally bought the First National Bank of
Cainesville in Missouri, which had $14 million of assets,
renaming it Flowers National Bank.  Last year, Flowers’s New York-based buyout firm, J.C.
Flowers & Co., helped lead a group of private-equity and hedge
fund managers to pump $1.55 billion into the collapsed IndyMac
Bank in California. That transaction avoided restrictions on
private-equity investments in banks by distributing ownership
among enough partners that no fund manager has control.  Flowers’s New Jersey approval comes as the U.S. Dodd-Frank
financial-overhaul bill calls for the end of the OTS and the
assumption of some of its duties by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. The OTS regulates thrifts, also
known as savings and loans, which are typically small
institutions that focus on home lending.  Flagstar Purchase  In January 2009, the OTS allowed MatlinPatterson Global
Advisers LLC to buy Flagstar Bancorp Inc. in Troy, Michigan.
MatlinPatterson won the approval through a silo fund, one of the
first of its kind.  Last year, the Federal Reserve, which regulates other
lenders such as commercial banks, told private-equity companies
it wouldn’t permit a firm that isn’t regulated as a bank to own
a majority stake in a lender, even if the funds are segregated,
according to a Fed lawyer who declined to be identified.  Barbara Hagenbaugh, a Fed spokeswoman, declined to comment
on whether the Fed has changed the policy.  Senator  Jack Reed , a Rhode Island Democrat, told bank
regulators and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner last year
he had “serious concerns” that rules for sales of banks to
private-equity firms are inconsistent.  Deals such as Flagstar “represent another, particularly
dangerous example of regulatory arbitrage whereby institutions
and firms are shopping around a potentially risky activity until
they find a regulator who will allow it,” Reed, who leads a
Senate Banking subcommittee that oversees the securities
industry, wrote in a May 2009 letter.  Last year, the FDIC toughened rules on private-equity firms
buying failed banks by requiring higher capital ratios and
prohibiting sales of banks for at least three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 