-- Financial Bonds Lag Behind as Investors Reject Lower Yields: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-10-26T18:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/financial-bonds-lag-behind-as-investors-reject-lower-yields-canada-credit.html
Bond returns at Canada’s banks,
deemed the world’s safest for three years running, are trailing
international rivals as investors seek higher-yielding assets on
speculation the global recovery will strengthen.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian Financials
Index, with about C$147 billion ($144.1 billion) outstanding,
has returned 6.5 percent this year and 3 percent since the end
of June. That compares with 8.5 percent and 4.2 percent for
Merrill’s index of global financials.  Bonds from Canadian banks, such as  Royal Bank of Canada ,
beat global counterparts in 2008 and 2009, when a liquidity
crisis pushed investors toward securities of nations with
relatively sounder banks. Now, with benchmark rates at near-
record lows and speculation the worldwide recovery may
strengthen, investors are looking further afield for yield.  “Investors are starting to look at higher-yielding
securities, and some of the foreign financials meet that
description,”  Robert Follis , Bank of Nova Scotia’s Toronto-
based head of corporate bond research, said via e-mail. “The
bonds of the global firms are just now catching up to Canadian
firms’ bonds.”  Yields in Canadian financial bonds, which began the year at
3.53 percent, ended last week at 3.33 percent, for a decline of
20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage point. Global financials’
yields have fallen 80 basis points in that period, to 3.68
percent last week from 4.48 percent at the start of the year.  ‘Post-Crisis’ Ground  “Global peers had much more ‘post-crisis’ ground to
recapture in 2010,”  Altaf Nanji , senior credit analyst in
Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets, wrote in
an e-mail.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of corporate rather than federal debt
held steady yesterday at 142 basis points. Spreads were as wide
this year as 154 basis points in June. Relative corporate yields
in the U.S. stood at 179 basis points, and a broad index of
global corporate bonds was at 167 basis points as of Oct. 22,
Merrill Lynch data showed.  Corporate bonds in Canada have returned 0.5 percent this
month, according to the Merrill Lynch data, compared with 0.3
percent for both U.S. corporate bonds and global corporates.
Canadian corporate yields fell yesterday to 3.56 percent,
compared with U.S. corporate yields at 3.62 percent and 3.43
percent on Oct. 22 for global corporates.  Provincial Yields  Canada’s provincial bond market, with about C$458 billion
outstanding, yielded 52 basis points over federal benchmarks,
from 53 at the end of last week. Spreads were as wide as 71
basis points in May. Merrill Lynch’s index of Canadian
provincial bonds is up 0.8 percent this month, compared with 0.2
percent in its index of Canadian government bonds.  The government 10-year  bond  was little changed yesterday,
yielding 2.74 percent. The 3.5 percent security due in June 2020
held steady at C$106.39. Two-year notes were little changed at
1.39 percent. The  spread  to U.S. 10-year Treasuries, which
yielded 2.56 percent, widened to 18 basis points, and the  yield
gap  with U.S. 2-year notes increased to 103 basis points.  Relative yields in Canadian financials have widened this
year along with broader corporate bonds, rising to 139 basis
points at the end of last week from 109 basis points after the
first week in January. That compares to almost unchanged spreads
in global financials, which ended last week at 204 basis points,
from 209 in January.  The Geneva-based World Economic Forum has ranked Canada’s
banking system the world’s soundest for three straight years.  Laurentian Bank issued C$250 million in variable-coupon
debt.  Rates Boosts on Hold  Canada’s central bank last week put interest-rate increases
on hold, citing “weakness” in the U.S. economy, destination of
about two-thirds of the nation’s exports. The gap between
Canada’s two-year and 10-year government bonds, the so-called
 yield  curve, stood at 135 basis points yesterday, the lowest in
the Group of Seven outside Japan. In general, a flatter yield
curve signals uncertainty over future economic growth.  Canadian banks’ profitability “has been quite decent for
the year,” RBC’s Nanji said. “I really wouldn’t chalk up any
underperformance in bonds to operating performance. It probably
has a lot more to do with security valuations.”  Bonds maturing before 2020 from Canadian banks such as
 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , Royal Bank and Toronto-
Dominion Bank were the best performers this month on the Merrill
Financials Index. Debt due after 2031 from insurers including
Investors Group, Sun Life Financial and Great-West Life
performed worst.  Returns for global financial bonds have averaged 5.2
percent over 10 years, compared with 6.5 percent for Canadian
financials, according to Bloomberg calculations in the Merrill
Lynch data.  Canada’s financial companies didn’t require any government
bailouts during the biggest credit crisis since the Great
Depression.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  