-- Finmeccanica Venture Wins 194 Million-Euro Galileo Contract
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-10-26T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/finmeccanica-venture-wins-194-million-euro-galileo-contract.html
A German-Italian joint venture that
includes  Finmeccanica SpA  won a 194 million-euro ($271 million)
contract to support the European Union’s flagship satellite
project, moving the EU closer to creating a rival to the U.S.
GPS system.  SpaceOpal GmbH, established by the  German Aerospace Center 
and Finmeccanica’s Telespazio SpA unit, received the contract
for the operations of the space and ground infrastructure of the
planned 4.5 billion-euro Galileo road, rail, ship and air-
traffic control network.  The accord covers the industrial services needed to support
the  European Space Agency  in the operations of the satellites
and ground system, the EU said. This is the fourth of six
contracts for the procurement of Galileo’s operational
capability starting in 2014.  “We are fully committed to the roll-out of the system,”
EU Industry Commissioner  Antonio Tajani  said in a statement
today in Brussels. “Europe will have its own independent
satellite navigation system capable of high precision and
reliability.”  Galileo, one of Europe’s biggest industrial projects since
Airbus in the 1970s, was on the verge of collapse in 2007 after
companies led by  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  and
Alcatel-Lucent SA balked at a plan to share the costs, citing
the risks tied to launching and operating the system. That
prompted a public bailout.  In  January  this year, the European Commission awarded three
Galileo contracts worth a total of around 1 billion euros for
engineering support, launchers and satellites. The two remaining
contracts, covering completion of the ground-mission and ground-
control infrastructure, will be awarded in “early 2011,” the
commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  