-- Florida Foreclosure Auction Cancellations `Frustrating' to Judge
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/florida-foreclosure-judge-criticizes-lenders-amid-cancellation-of-auctions.html
 The Miami judge managing a backlog
of 80,000 foreclosures said it’s “frustrating” that lenders
including  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
continue to cancel foreclosure auctions.  Circuit Judge Jennifer Bailey in Miami-Dade County, which
has the most foreclosures in Florida, recently set up a system
to clear the logjam. She also chaired a state Supreme Court task
force last year set up to address the volume of foreclosures in
the state’s courts.  “It’s very frustrating to have put in this effort to
design, plan and implement this system and when we finally get
some forward momentum, we start slowing down again because of
the banks,” she said yesterday in an interview.  Bailey said banks are canceling foreclosure sales every
day. They canceled at least 20 yesterday in front of one judge,
saying they had to review the affidavits used to seize homes.  The cancellations came as Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America and Detroit-based  Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC
Mortgage unit said they were moving to complete pending
foreclosures. They had suspended foreclosure sales and judgments
after complaints that home seizures nationwide were based on
faulty documentation.  Attorneys general in all 50 states, as well as federal
agencies including the U.S. Justice Department, are
investigating.  GMAC said it’s reviewing foreclosure cases with potentially
defective affidavits in the 23 states that use judicial
proceedings for foreclosures, including Florida. If there are
problems, they will be fixed and the cases will proceed, said
 Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for GMAC. Any case going to
foreclosure sale in non-judicial states will also be reviewed,
she said in an interview.  Bank of America, the  largest  U.S. bank by assets, has
completed a review of its foreclosure procedures and will
“shortly” begin resubmitting affidavits in judicial
foreclosure cases, spokesman  Dan Frahm  said Oct. 25 in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Nesmith  in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 