-- Ford Pares Debt, Posts Record $1.69B Quarterly Profit
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2010-10-26T20:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ford-posts-1-69-billion-third-quarter-profit-on-higher-u-s-car-sales.html
Ford Motor Co. , the world’s most
profitable automaker, is generating enough cash to pay off
billions in debt after reporting third-quarter  net income  of
$1.69 billion, the most in its 107-year history.  By the end of the week, Ford will have paid down $10.8
billion in obligations this year and reduced its auto unit’s
debt to $22.8 billion, the company said today. New models like
the Fiesta subcompact car are fetching high prices, helping to
boost the automotive cash to $23.8 billion on September 30. By
year’s end, Ford said its cash will about equal its liabilities.  “We continued to invest heavily in new products in the
2008 and 2009 time frame when we had, frankly, great need of our
scarce cash,”  Lewis Booth , Ford’s chief financial officer, said
in an interview. “And we’re paying back debt faster than we’d
hoped.”  Ford’s results topped the previous third-quarter high of
$1.13 billion, set in 1997. Excluding some items, profit was 48
cents a share, beating the 38-cent average of 12 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The second-largest U.S.
automaker had net income of $997 million in last year’s third
quarter and adjusted per-share profit of 26 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has revived Ford by
improving quality and expanding offerings of the namesake brand.
Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy, won
15.1 percent of U.S. light-vehicle  sales  in the quarter, up from
13 percent two years ago, as buyers pay more for new models such
as the Taurus sedan and Super Duty pickups.  Elevated Brand  “Ford has elevated its brand,” said  Jessica Caldwell ,
director of pricing and industry analysis for automotive
researcher Edmunds.com. “They’re attracting a more discerning
buyer who has more income and can afford more options.”  Buyers of Ford cars and trucks paid an average of $30,636
per model in September, up 10 percent from five years ago, as
they loaded up on options like voice-activated telephone and
stereo systems, according to Santa Monica, California-based
Edmunds. That’s the highest average price Edmunds has recorded
for Ford since the researcher began gathering such data in 2002,
Caldwell said.  Higher average prices helped to add $400 million to Ford’s
pretax automotive profits in the quarter, the company said. The
Fiesta, which went on sale in June, commands $3,000 to $4,000
above its $13,995 base price as buyers choose options like
leather seats, according to  George Pipas , Ford sales analyst.  “The general perception of Ford four years ago was this
kind of loser company in a loser industry,” said  Bernie McGinn ,
president of McGinn Investment Management in Alexandria,
Virginia, which owns 330,000 Ford common shares. “Now people
are buying Fords because it’s cool.”  Sales Top Estimates  Ford’s third-quarter sales fell 4.3 percent to $29 billion
as the company boosted North American production 16 percent to
570,000 cars and trucks. The average of eight analysts’
estimates was for  revenue  of $27 billion. Excluding last year’s
revenue from Volvo, which Ford has since sold, sales rose in the
quarter by $1.7 billion, the company said.  Ford, based in Dearborn, Michigan, rose 21 cents to $14.36
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Ford
shares have climbed 44 percent this year.  Ford’s $23.8 billion in automotive cash on Sept. 30 was up
from $21.9 billion on June 30. Ford began the year with $33.6
billion in automotive debt, which fell to $26.4 billion on Sept.
30 after the automaker paid down $2 billion on a revolving
credit line.  Paying Debt  By Oct. 29, Ford will prepay the remaining $3.6 billion in
debt it owes to a union retirement health-care trust. Ford said
it will use cash to meet that obligation, rather than issuing
new stock as allowed by the health-care trust.  Ford also said it was offering to convert two series of
debt into common stock, which would remove another $2.6 billion
in obligations from its balance sheet.  The debt reductions will save Ford about $800 million
annually in interest payments, the company said. The automaker
said its cash and debt is equalizing a year ahead of schedule.  “We’re working really hard on improving the balance
sheet,” Booth said. “We’ve got some ways to go yet.”  Ford has more  debt  than  General Motors Co.  and Chrysler
Group LLC because it borrowed $23 billion in late 2006 before
credit markets froze. That gave the automaker a cash cushion to
withstand the recession and avoid bankruptcy. It also left Ford
with obligations that Mulally has said put the automaker at a
competitive disadvantage.  Balance Sheet  “Ford’s balance sheet is stronger than generally
perceived, which along with strong cash flow should continue to
position Ford to pay a dividend by 2012 at the latest,” Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch analyst John Murphy, who rates Ford a
“buy,” wrote in a note today. Ford suspended its common
dividend in 2006.  Moody’s Investors Service raised Ford’s  credit rating  two
levels Oct. 8, saying its operating performance “significantly
exceeded” expectations.  “They’ve done an excellent job in terms of debt
management,”  Dennis Virag , president of Automotive Consulting
Group based in Ann Arbor, Michigan, said today in an interview.
“That reflects on profitability.”  Ford’s credit rating remains two levels below investment
grade and Moody’s said it doesn’t anticipate another upgrade
until the second half of next year, after contract talks with
the United Auto Workers conclude. Ford’s Booth has said
returning to investment grade is “a rallying cry within the
company.”  Bonds Rise  Ford Motor Credit Co.’s $1.5 billion of 8 percent notes due
in 2016 rose 0.75 cent to 117.75 cents on the dollar as of 8:25
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The
securities, issued in December 2006, climbed to the highest on
record.  Credit default swaps on Ford’s debt fell 25.8 basis points
to a five-year low, according to data from Phoenix Partners
Group.  Mulally, 65, has said Ford will deliver “solid profits”
this year and generate positive automotive operating cash flow.
Ford may have net income of $7.64 billion this year, according
to the average estimate of four analysts. The company earned
$6.37 billion in the first three quarters, topping Volkswagen
AG’s $5.6 billion.  Already Solid  “That’s already a solidly profitable year, and we’re
confident we’ll be solidly profitable next year as well,” Booth
said today.  Ford said today fourth-quarter production will rise to 1.35
million globally, about 89,000 more than in the third quarter.
Ford said it would produce 590,000 cars and trucks in North
America in the fourth quarter, 20,000 more vehicles than it
announced in August.  All of Ford’s business units will be profitable in 2011,
Booth said today. Ford posted a pretax operating loss of
$196 million in its European operations in the quarter, as sales
in that region fell after governments stopped offering cash
incentives to convince drivers to trade in older models.  “We expect Europe to be profitable in the fourth quarter
and profitable next year,” Booth said. “We’ve got a slew of
new products coming.”  Ford Divestitures  Since coming from Boeing Co. in September 2006, Mulally has
focused on the Ford brand and unloaded European luxury lines
Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin. Ford sold Volvo to  Zhejiang
Geely Holding Group Co.  in August for $1.5 billion, the largest
overseas acquisition by a Chinese automaker. Ford bought Volvo
for $6.5 billion in 1999.  Ford also has said it will discontinue the mid-priced
Mercury model line at the end of the year to focus on reviving
the Lincoln luxury brand. The automaker told Lincoln dealers
this month it plans to reduce metropolitan stores by 35 percent.
The automaker has reduced its dealers by 21 percent since 2005,
Booth said today.  Last year, Mulally ended three years of losses at Ford,
which earned $2.7 billion in 2009. From 2006 through 2008,
Ford’s losses totaled $30.1 billion as a collapse in sport-
utility vehicle sales was followed by the most severe recession
since the Great Depression.  “We all want this job to be permanent, improving Ford
Motor Co.,” Booth said. “Not just a temporary blip in
history.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  