-- Foreign Lenders' Reserves at Bank of Japan Swell as Yen Advances, RBS Says
-- B y   S a b u r o   F u n a b i k i
-- 2010-10-26T07:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/foreign-lenders-reserves-at-bank-of-japan-swell-as-yen-advances-rbs-says.html
Foreign banks’ surplus reserves at
the Bank of Japan are at a five-year high as a surge in demand
for the yen boosts the currency toward a record, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The lenders’ reserves in excess of the central bank’s
required balance totaled 4.57 trillion yen ($57 billion) in
September, the most since November 2005, when the BOJ expanded
its balance sheet through debt purchases called quantitative
easing. The reserves surged 32 percent from August as the yen
rallied to a 15-year high. Japan’s currency traded today within
1 yen of the record 79.75 per dollar set in April 1995.  “Overseas investors have piled into the yen because of its
gain,” said  Akito Fukunaga , chief rates strategist in Tokyo at
Royal Bank of Scotland. “They are probably not interested in
particular assets and are either parking their money in deposits
or buying short-term government debt.”  Foreign purchases of Japanese discount bills surpassed 10
trillion yen in September, the highest since 2009, according to
data released by the Japan Securities Dealers Association.
Three-month bill  yields  are less than 0.11 percent, barely
higher than the interest the BOJ pays on excess reserves.  Non-Japanese banks are also using the currency swap market
to obtain yen funds at less than 0.1 percent and then put the
money into interest-bearing deposits at the BOJ, according to
 Yoichi Muto , director at the Tokyo branch of Commerzbank AG. In
a cross-currency swap, investors pay or receive a variable
interest rate in one currency in exchange for a fixed rate in
another currency.  Quantitative Easing  Foreign lenders’ excess reserves at the BOJ have surged
since the central bank began paying interest on accounts in
November 2008 after ending quantitative easing.  “Taking currency risk on board whilst having the cash
sitting in what is a sovereign deposit remains an attractive
trade for many,”  Sean G. Keane , managing director of Triple T
Consulting in Singapore, wrote in a report today. “If the BOJ
really wanted to penalize the fast money inflows they could even
apply a penalty charge on excess balances.”  The Bank of Japan will probably leave policy unchanged this
week to gauge whether cutting interest rates to near zero and
pledging to buy financial assets will shield the economy from
the yen’s advance. All 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
say the bank will refrain from any action at its Oct. 28
gathering after unexpectedly cutting rates on Oct. 5 and
creating a 5 trillion-yen fund to purchase assets.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa may have to further loosen
policy if the Federal Reserve engages in more quantitative
easing to shore up growth, exacerbating the dollar’s decline.  Still, a flood of money from the BOJ into the financial
system is unlikely to flow to the rest of the economy, according
to  Toshiaki Terada , a researcher at Totan Research Co.  “The funds in the reserves will be as good as non-existent,
so the BOJ may not be happy with that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saburo Funabiki  in Tokyo at 
 sfunabiki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 