-- Frank Says `Death Panels' Await Failing Banks Under Law Bearing His Name
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-26T00:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/frank-says-death-panels-await-failing-financial-companies-under-new-law.html
U.S. Representative  Barney Frank 
said the only death panels created by congressional Democrats
will protect taxpayers from ailing financial companies, not
ration care to sick individuals as Republicans have claimed.  “We do have death panels,” Frank, a Massachusetts
Democrat, said today during a discussion on financial reform at
Boston College. “Not for old ladies under health care reform,
but for financial institutions under Dodd-Frank.”  The law named for Frank, who leads the House Financial
Services Committee, and Senate Banking Committee Chairman
 Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat, gives the government
authority to unwind collapsing financial firms that may threaten
the entire system. Failing banks won’t be protected from
bankruptcy as they were during the credit crisis, Frank said.  “Much of this bill makes it less likely that financial
institutions will get to the point of failure,” he said. “But
if an institution gets to that point, it will fail.”  Republicans including  Sarah Palin , the former Alaska
governor who was the party’s vice presidential nominee in 2008,
accused Democrats of planning death panels for the elderly
during debate over health care legislation last year, citing a
provision for end-of-life counseling.  The Dodd-Frank measure, enacted in response to the 2008
subprime mortgage crisis that led to the failures of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos., imposes new rules
on derivatives markets and creates a consumer-protection agency
at the Federal Reserve to monitor everything from home loans to
credit cards.  Fewer Jobs  In response to a student’s question about careers in the
financial-services industry, Frank said he hoped there would be
fewer Wall Street jobs in coming years.  “I would hope some years from now the financial industry
will have shrunk some, because there was a lot of activity that
should never have happened, from subprime lending to credit
default swaps,” Frank said.  That view was seconded by Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair , who spoke on the panel alongside Frank and
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker .  “There has been a misallocation of resources,” said Bair,
whose agency serves as receiver for banks that have been failing
at the fastest pace since the savings-and-loan crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 