-- French Parliament to Vote on Sarkozy's Pension Bill
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-27T16:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/french-parliament-set-for-final-vote-on-sarkozy-s-pension-bill.html
The French Parliament passed
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s pension bill to increase the minimum
retirement age as labor unions prepared for a new day of strikes
and protests tomorrow.  The bill, under which the minimum pension age will go to 62
from 60 and the full-pension age to 67 from 65, was passed by
the National Assembly by 336 votes to 233. The Senate passed the
bill yesterday. While Sarkozy wants to enact the law on Nov. 15,
France’s Constitutional Court may need more time to review it.  “Some will say Sarkozy won because he has passed a tough
reform,” said  Jerome Fourquet , a deputy director at Ifop, a
Paris-based polling company. “But the reform caused so much
pain it has created resentment and with any future reform,
social unrest can be sparked again.”  Labor unions said protests and strikes over the bill, which
have left the country crippled with fuel shortages and public
transport disruptions, are far from over. They have called for
strikes and marches tomorrow and more demonstrations on Nov. 6.
Unions at French airlines and  air traffic controllers  have
called for a separate strike on Nov. 4 to protest the bill.  French power plant workers are set to begin a strike at 10
p.m. tonight and may cut production of electricity, according to
a representative of the CGT union. Strikes at oil terminals have
left refineries without the necessary crude to process into
fuels such as gasoline and diesel.  France’s Civil Aviation Authority asked airlines to reduce
flights to and from Orly airport in Paris by 50 percent, and
those at other airports in mainland France by 30 percent.  Pension Deficit  “Voted or not, this problem isn’t over,”  said Bernard Thibault , head of the  CGT union . “Most of the unions that have
suspended the strike are calling for a new meeting tomorrow,”
he told Liberation newspaper today.  The full-pension age brings France closer to Germany and
the U.S., which are moving toward setting 67 as the full-
retirement age, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  “This reform won’t break France’s social pact,” Labor
Minister  Eric Woerth  said in an interview with i-Tele after the
vote. “In the name of the government, I am proud to have
carried through a reform that in the common good.”  The  risk premium  on French bonds fell. Investors demanded
36.6 basis points more to buy 10-year French bonds than
comparable German securities, down from 41.6 basis points on
Oct. 12. The spreads were at 30 basis points on Sept. 6.  Sarkozy Popularity  The government says the pension changes are needed to help
France cope with an aging population and balance the pension
system’s budget by 2018.  The overhaul is part of the broader government struggle to
cut the budget deficit. This year the gap will stand at 7.7
percent of gross domestic product, and Sarkozy’s ministers plan
to narrow it to 6 percent, or 92 billion euros, next year.  Sarkozy’s two-month battle with unions and workers has hurt
his popularity, which fell to a record low this month, with less
than a third of those questioned approving his performance, an
 Ifop  survey for the Journal du Dimanche showed Oct. 24. His
approval rating fell to 29 percent, against 32 percent in
September, the lowest since his May 2007 election.  The protests and strikes cost the country between 200
million euros and 400 million euros ($280 million to $560
million) a day, Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said Oct. 25.  Popular Support  Workers held their first strike on Sept. 7 when the
National Assembly started debating the bill. Since then strikes
and demonstrations have disrupted airlines and trains and
brought about a million protesters to the streets during
demonstrations. Blockades at oil depots left almost half the
country’s service stations with shortages of some fuel products.  France’s eight remaining active refineries are either on
strike or shut because of a lack of crude oil. Workers at the
six  Total SA  refineries are on strike today and production
remains halted, said  Michael Crochet-Vourey , company spokesman.  “We’ve always said we don’t want to blockade the country,
and once the bill has passed parliament our opposition will take
other forms,” Francois Pelegrina, a representative at  Total SA 
for the  CFDT union , said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Meanwhile, protests against the bill still have widespread
support, polls show. An Ifop institute poll for  Ouest-France 
Dimanche newspaper showed that 63 percent of respondents
supported the call for strikes tomorrow. That compares with 71
percent support before the previous strike on Oct. 12.  The same poll also found that 59 percent of the French say
it’s unacceptable for strikers to block fuel depots or roads.
The poll was conducted Oct. 21 and 22, with 956 respondents.
 Paris-based Ifop  didn’t publish margins of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 