-- Michelin San Francisco Gives Meadowood Third Star
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-10-26T17:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/french-laundry-joined-by-meadowood-in-michelin-san-francisco-dining-guide.html
The Restaurant at Meadowood, a Napa
Valley establishment that matches local wines with seasonal
dishes, today wins its third star in the Michelin guide to the
San Francisco area, joining the French Laundry in the top tier.  Eleven more restaurants are awarded single stars, taking
the total to 39; three hold two stars, with no additions. A
total of 74 eateries earn Bib Gourmands for good value. Of
these, 29 are new. Alice Walters’s Chez Panisse lost its star.  The Michelin guide is published as San Francisco prepares
for the baseball World Series, which starts tomorrow.  “This is quite simply one of the finest culinary regions
in the world,  Jean-Luc Naret , director of the guides, said in an
e-mailed release. “We spent a full year studying this region to
produce our guide and the effort is immensely satisfying.”  Chef Christopher Kostow, 33, is influenced by his East
European heritage, according to the website of the Restaurant at
Meadowood, where the dishes on his Thanksgiving Menu for Nov. 25
include roasted sturgeon, bone marrow, crispy Brussels sprouts,
compressed pear. The cost is $195, or $300 with wines. Kostow
works closely with his French sommelier, Rom Toulon.  Among the new one-star venues: Dio Deka serves Hellenic
cuisine in downtown Los Gatos; Spruce is an American restaurant
in San Francisco;  Wakuriya  is a Japanese kitchen in San Mateo.  Seasonal Ingredients  Chez Panisse, which opened in Berkeley in 1971, pioneered
the use of fresh seasonal ingredients. Ubuntu retained its star
after the departure of Jeremy Fox, its chef. Restaurant Michael
Mina was excluded from the guide after it closed and relocated.  Michelin also publishes a guide to restaurants in New York,
and a guide to Chicago makes its debut on Nov. 17.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Other scheduled Michelin announcements include Germany
(Nov. 10), Switzerland (Nov. 16), Belgium & Luxembourg (Nov. 22)
and Italy (Nov. 24), the same day as Tokyo. The U.K. guide is
published in January and the French one in March.  Michelin & Cie . is the world’s second-biggest tire maker
after Bridgestone Corp. of Japan. It produced its first so-
called Red Guide at the turn of the 20th century to encourage
motoring. The guides have expanded internationally under Naret.  “The Michelin Guide San Francisco, Bay Area & Wine Country
2011” goes on sale tomorrow at $18.99 in the U.S. and at the
beginning of February in France, costing 17.90 euros.  Here are the starholders. (N signifies New)  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 