-- FTSE 100 Drops to Two-Week Low as Arm, Cairn Costs Overshadow U.K. Growth
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-10-26T15:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ftse-100-drops-as-arm-declines-on-higher-costs-cairn-writes-off-oil-wells.html
U.K. stocks  dropped as declines in
ARM Holdings Plc and Cairn Energy Plc overshadowed faster-than-
estimated economic growth.  ARM, the designer of semiconductors that power Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, slumped 5.9 percent after saying operating costs rose.
Cairn Energy tumbled the most in 19 months after writing off the
cost of two exploration wells near Greenland. WS Atkins Plc, the
U.K.’s biggest engineering-design company, sank 2.2 percent
after Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc downgraded the shares.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  fell 44.68, or 0.8 percent, to
5,707.3 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The  FTSE All-Share
Index  lost 0.7 percent and Ireland’s ISEQ Index retreated 0.4
percent.  The FTSE 100 has climbed 19 percent since July 1 as
investors speculated that actions by central banks will prevent
another recession while companies from Nokia Oyj to Fiat SpA
reported results that beat analysts’ estimates. The rally has
lifted the index’s valuation to 11.7 times its companies’
estimated earnings from 9.9 times in July, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Companies are struggling to find new avenues to get
investors excited,” said  Mark Bon , who helps oversee $750
million at Canada Life Ltd. in London.  A report today showed Britain’s economy grew by twice as
much as economists forecast in the third quarter as services and
construction helped sustain the recovery’s momentum, easing
pressure on officials to add stimulus.  U.K. Growth  Gross domestic product  rose 0.8 percent in the three months
through September after increasing 1.2 percent in the previous
quarter, the Office for National Statistics said. Economists had
forecast a 0.4 percent gain, according to the median of 35
predictions in a Bloomberg news survey.  Standard & Poor’s restored the outlook on its top AAA
rating for U.K. government debt to “stable” from “negative”
today after the release of the GDP data. S&P warned in May last
year that Britain was at risk of downgrade.  ARM , whose shares have more than doubled this year, slid
5.9 percent to 366.2 pence, their biggest drop since Aug. 3,
even after reporting higher earnings. ARM said operating
expenses increased 23 percent last quarter from a year earlier
as the dollar declined. About 95 percent of the company’s
invoices are denominated in the U.S. currency.  “We would not expect major changes to consensus fiscal
year 2010” estimates, London-based analyst  Nick James  at Numis
Securities Ltd. wrote in a report after the results. “The
weaker dollar may drive a pause to earnings momentum.”  Cairn, Atkins  Cairn Energy  tumbled 7.2 percent to 382.5 pence, the
biggest drop since March 2009. The Edinburgh-based oil explorer
said it will have to write off the $185 million cost of two
wells off Greenland after they failed to make any commercial
discoveries. Cairn plugged and abandoned the wells as the
island’s summer drilling season finished on Sept. 30.  Atkins  sank 2.2 percent to 775 pence after being downgraded
to “hold” from “buy” at RBS, which said government cost cuts
in the U.K. will hurt profit margins for “several years.”  The following stocks also rose or fell in London and
Dublin. Stock symbols are in parentheses:       Carnival Plc  (CCL LN), the largest cruise-ship operator,
rose 4.3 percent to 2,768 pence. Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd.,
the world’s second-largest cruise operator, jumped 13 percent in
New York after raising its profit forecast.       Fidessa Group Plc  (FDSA LN) plunged 8 percent to 1,584
pence, the biggest drop since January 2009. The U.K. financial-
software developer said that “uncertainty” continued to
afflict its market.       Go-Ahead Group Plc  (GOG LN) jumped 6.7 percent to 1,358
pence, the highest price since May. The largest operator of
London buses said trading has been “robust” in the period from
July 4 to Oct. 25 and it will maintain its full-year forecast.  Separately, Chief Executive Officer  Keith Ludeman  will
retire in July next year, the Newcastle-upon-Tyne, England-based
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 