-- GE's Habayeb Sees Middle East, Africa Solar Energy, Health-Care Demand
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-10-26T22:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ge-s-habayeb-sees-middle-east-solar-energy-health-care-demand.html
General Electric Co. ’s Middle East
sales should rise as demand increases for electricity and
health-care services, including solar energy equipment and
medical information systems, the company’s regional chief said.  Saudi Arabia’s goal of pushing electricity output to almost
80 gigawatts by the first half of next decade from 40 gigawatts
now will help drive purchases, said  Nabil Habayeb , who oversees
the Middle East and Africa regions.  “It’s about ‘how do you diversify the technology for power
generation?’” Habayeb said yesterday in an interview at the
World Economic Forum in Marrakech, Morocco. “So solar energy
becomes an extremely important part of the planning for power-
generation growth across the whole region.’”  GE, whose power-generation equipment provides one-third of
the world’s electricity, unveiled an expansion of its solar
business this month. The region is one of the energy division’s
biggest customers, led by Saudi Arabia, whose 500 gas-fired GE
turbines produce about 20 gigawatts of power there.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, got about $10 billion
of its $157 billion in 2009 sales from the Middle East and
Africa. Sales will rise to meet the needs of a growing
population, Habayeb said.  “We see that based on the orders that are being placed
across all sectors, whether it’s power or water or health care,
aviation,’ he said. ‘‘We continue to see positive growth.”  GE signed a wastewater-treatment accord in Saudi Arabia
this month, and has predicted that the kingdom will become the
world’s third-largest market for reused water after the U.S. and
China.  GE is the world’s biggest maker of power-plant turbines,
locomotives, jet engines, medical imaging equipment and health-
care information technology systems. Its other businesses
include commercial and consumer finance, appliances, lighting
and water treatment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Marrakech, Morocco, at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  