-- German Government Bonds Fall After Import Prices Increase for Second Month
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-10-26T15:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/german-bonds-fall-after-import-prices-increase-for-second-straight-month.html
German bonds declined after a report
showed the nation’s import prices gained for a second
consecutive month in September, sapping demand for the euro
region’s safest assets.  The declines pushed the  yield  on the two-year note to its
highest in more than six months, while the 10-year bund yield
was near the highest in more than two months. German import
 prices  rose by 0.3 percent in September from a month earlier, up
by 9.9 percent year-over-year. Greek bonds fell after Pacific
Investment Management Co. said the nation may default within
three years.  “Bunds were a touch lower after the import price data,”
said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Ten-year bund yields have found
good support around the 2.5 percent level, but it’s difficult to
see a significant rally near-term. The market is biding time
ahead of the Federal Reserve’s meeting next week.”  The yield on the bund, Europe’s benchmark security, rose
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.51 percent as
of 3:59 p.m. in London. It reached 2.519 percent earlier, the
most since Aug. 10. The 2.25 percent security maturing in
September 2020 fell 0.50, or 5 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,388)
face amount, fell to 97.78. The two-year note yield gained five
basis points to 1.01 percent. It touched 1.036 percent earlier
today, the highest since April 12, according to Bloomberg
generic data.  Bunds Safety  Signs of a slowing global economic recovery and concern
about the finances of so-called peripheral nations such as
Greece, Spain and Ireland have driven investors to the relative
safety of bunds amid mounting speculation of more asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing, by the Fed.  The U.S. central bank may buy $2 trillion of assets to
stimulate the world’s largest economy, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said in a report yesterday.  The Fed may begin its purchases with $500 billion over six
months, according to Goldman economists led by  Jan Hatzius  in
New York. The company, one of the 18 primary dealers authorized
to trade directly with the Fed, said policy makers will announce
the plan at their next meeting Nov. 2-3.  Bunds extended their decline after U.K. data showed the
nation’s economy grew faster than forecast in the third quarter.  U.K. GDP Rises  U.K.  gross domestic product  rose 0.8 percent in the three
months through September after increasing 1.2 percent in the
previous quarter, the Office for National Statistics said in
London today. Economists expected a 0.4 percent gain, according
to the median of 35 forecasts in a Bloomberg news survey.  Greece is likely to default within three years because
budget-cutting measures won’t be enough to reduce the nation’s
sovereign debt burden, according to Pimco Chief Executive
Officer  Mohamed A. El-Erian .  A default is likely “as long as you can contain the
contagion to other countries and it is done through orderly
restructuring and repricing to retain competitiveness,” El-
Erian said at a conference sponsored by the Economist magazine
in New York yesterday.  Greek bonds fell, with the 10-year bond yield increasing 33
basis points to 9.76 percent, the highest since Oct. 8. The
extra yield investors demand to  hold  Greek 10-year debt instead
of bunds rose by 26 basis points to 717 basis points, the most
since Oct. 8.  “Greek bonds have been under pressure since El-Erian’s
comments,” said  Orlando Green , assistant director of capital-
markets strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in London. “The near-term picture doesn’t look so bad for
Greece, but it’s a long journey ahead.”  Local Elections  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  urged Greeks to back his
ruling party and cast a vote of hope and change, not protest, in
next month’s local elections, his first test at the ballot box
since crafting a 110 billion-euro bailout for the country.  “If we stop now and don’t continue with major changes, the
sacrifices we have made so far will be lost,” Papandreou said
in comments televised yesterday on state-run NET TV and six
other television channels. “And instead of making the crisis an
opportunity, we will probably find ourselves in a worse
situation.”  Belgium’s political stalemate may have pushed the nation’s
debt yields an extra 20 basis points above those of German debt,
according to a senior official at the country’s debt agency.  “The fact that we are in a phase where the politicians are
still trying to form a government has weighed on the spread,”
 Anne Leclercq , director for Treasury and Capital Markets at the
Belgian Debt Agency, said in an interview in Brussels late
yesterday.  Caretaker Government  Belgium has a caretaker government four months after an
inconclusive election as Flemish nationalists and francophone
parties fail to reconcile their differences.  The Belgian-German 10-year bond-yield  spread  narrowed five
basis points to 79 basis points today. It reached 91.7 basis
points on Sept. 24, the most since June 25.  Italy sold 2.5 billion euros of zero-coupon notes due in
2012 and 9 billion euros of six-month Treasury bills. Spain sold
3.18 billion euros of bills today, below the maximum target of 4
billion euros set for the auction, the Bank of Spain said.  German bonds have returned 8.3 percent this year, compared
with 8.8 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Italian securities have gained 4.4 percent,
Spanish debt has risen 2.5 percent and Belgian bonds have
returned 5.8 percent, while Greek debt has lost 11 percent, the
indexes show.  Portugal plans to sell up to 1.25 billion euros of notes
due in 2014 and 2018 tomorrow.  France, Italy Lower Sales  France will probably sell fewer bonds than the 186 billion-
euros worth planned for next year amid improving government
finances as the regional sovereign-debt crisis eases, the head
of the country’s debt agency said.  “It’s very probable that it will be slightly below” 186
billion euros, said  Philippe Mills , chief executive officer of
Agence France Tresor. “We have slightly below funding needs
with the implementation of fiscal consolidation. The commitment
of the French government is very strong.”  France, the second-largest economy in the euro area, will
probably also exceed its target to cut the amount of Treasury
bills outstanding by 15 billion euros this year, Mills said.  Italy will probably reduce its bond issuance next year by
20 billion euros as the nation cuts its deficit, said  Maria Cannata , director general of public debt at the nation’s finance
ministry.  “The consolidation is extremely in line with forecasts,”
Cannata said in an interview in Brussels today.  Sluggish Recovery  Italy is scheduled to sell between 240 billion euros and
250 billion euros of bonds this year, she said.  Sweden’s central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate 
for a third time since July while policy makers said the
prospect of a sluggish global recovery suggests further
tightening plans should be scaled back.  The Stockholm-based Riksbank raised the seven-day repo rate
by 0.25 percent, or a quarter of a percentage point, to 1
percent, it said today on its website. The decision was expected
by all 20 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  