-- Germany Insists on Changes to Euro Treaty as EU Leaders Prepare to Meet
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-10-26T12:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/germany-insists-on-changes-to-euro-treaty-as-eu-leaders-prepare-to-meet.html
Germany stuck to its call for
rewriting European Union treaties to increase penalties for
euro-area deficit violators, saying investors must foot part of
the bill for any future debt crisis.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is seeking assent by all 27 EU
governments and will take her case to this week’s summit of EU
leaders in Brussels, said a German government official who
briefed reporters on condition of anonymity because the
negotiations will take place behind closed doors.  The aim is to put investors in sovereign bonds, not
taxpayers, first in line to accept a loss if a euro-area
government defaults or restructures its debt, the official said
in Berlin. The amendment may require just two lines, the
official said, declining to elaborate on what the language might
look like.  Germany gave up its call for “quasi-automatic” sanctions
on Oct. 18 in return for a French pledge of support for changes
in EU treaties. Britain immediately objected to another treaty
overhaul, which requires unanimous approval by EU governments.  Treaty changes are “of enormous importance” to safeguard
the euro and avoid an extension of the European Financial
Stability Facility, the 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) financial
backstop set up in May, when it expires in 2013, Merkel said
Oct. 20.  As the EU seeks to gird against a repeat of this year’s
debt crisis, Germany also wants overhauled euro rules to
threaten persistent deficit violators with a suspension of their
EU voting rights, the official said.  The euro has rallied after reaching a four-year low of
$1.1877 on June 7 and traded at $1.3931 at 1:19 p.m. Frankfurt
time today. The euro is almost 20 percent overvalued, a
Bloomberg index of the relative buying power of world currencies
shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  