-- Glaxo Agrees to Pay $750 Million to Settle Defective Drug Suit
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/glaxo-said-to-settle-u-s-drug-manufacturing-lawsuit-for-750-million.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker, will pay $750 million to settle a U.S.
whistleblower lawsuit over the sale of defective drugs.  Glaxo and the U.S. Justice Department announced the
agreement yesterday, resolving a false-claims lawsuit first
filed in 2004 by Cheryl D. Eckard, a former global quality
assurance manager for the London-based company.  “This is not something I wanted to do, but because of
patient safety it was necessary,” Eckard, 51, told reporters
following a Justice Department press conference in Boston. As a
whistleblower, she will receive $96 million from the settlement
money.  Glaxo was accused in court papers of selling tainted drugs
under false pretenses. The medicines, made at a Glaxo plant in
Cidra, Puerto Rico, were misidentified as a result of product
mix-ups, according to papers filed in federal court in Boston.
The affected drugs included the antidepressant Paxil CR and the
diabetes treatment Avandamet.  The settlement includes a criminal fine and forfeiture
totaling $150 million and a $600 million civil settlement under
the False Claims Act and related state claims, the Justice
Department said in a statement.  “We will not tolerate corporate attempts to profit at the
expense of the ill and needy in our society -- or those who cut
corners that result in potentially dangerous consequences to
consumers,”  Carmen M. Ortiz , the U.S. Attorney in Boston, said
at yesterday’s news conference.  Guilty Plea  SB Pharmco Puerto Rico Inc., a Glaxo unit, agreed to plead
guilty to charges relating to the manufacture and distribution
of adulterated drugs made at the now-shuttered plant, the
Justice Department said. Glaxo said in July it had agreed in
principle with the U.S. to pay 500 million pounds ($791 million)
to resolve the investigation.  “We regret that we operated the Cidra facility in a manner
that was inconsistent with current Good Manufacturing Practice
requirements and with GSK’s commitment to manufacturing
quality,” PD Villarreal, a Glaxo senior vice president, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Eckard’s take is the largest ever for a single
whistleblower, said  Patrick Burns , spokesman for Taxpayers
Against Fraud, a nonprofit Washington group that publicizes the
use of legal means to combat fraud against the U.S. The federal
government will receive $436.4 million from the settlement and
participating states will split as much as $163.6 million, the
Justice Department said.  ‘Serious Deficiencies’  Other drugs made at the plant include Kytril, an anti-
nausea medication, and Bactroban, an ointment used to treat skin
infections, the Justice Department said.  “The false claims arose out of chronic, serious
deficiencies in the quality assurance function at the Cidra
plant and the defendants’ ongoing serious violations of the laws
and regulations designed to ensure the fitness of drug products
for use,” the government said in court papers.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2005 seized some
Paxil CR lots after it was discovered that the pills sometimes
split inappropriately, according to court papers. Some of the
pills lacked an active ingredient.  “We did not uncover any evidence that patients were harmed
from these adulterated batches,” Ortiz said yesterday. “It is
critical we keep pressure on companies to follow FDA standards
and play by the rules.”  Eckard’s complaint was joined by the states of California,
Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana,
Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New Hampshire, New
Mexico, New York, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia, as well as the
District of Columbia, Chicago and New York City.  The case is U.S. v. SmithKline Beecham Corp., 04-10375,
U.S. District Court for Massachusetts (Boston)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  