-- MGM Studio Said to Back Spyglass Reorganization Plan Over Lions Gate Deal
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2010-10-26T01:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/mgm-studio-said-to-support-spyglass-plan-over-lions-gate-deal.html
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.  recommended
creditors back a plan for Spyglass Entertainment to run the film
studio over a competing bid from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. ,
a person with knowledge of the situation said.  The Spyglass plan, which would include a streamlined
bankruptcy for MGM, is in the best interests of the company and
its creditors, the Los Angeles-based studio said in a letter to
debtholders, according to the person, who asked not to be
identified because the deliberations are private.  MGM creditors have until Oct. 29 to vote on the Spyglass
plan, which is opposed by investor  Carl Icahn . Icahn, who holds
MGM debt, is seeking to block the Spyglass deal and has offered
to guarantee other loan holders 45 cents on the dollar if they
vote with him. He favors the Lions Gate proposal, which would
combine the two studios and values MGM at about $1.7 billion.  In the Spyglass plan, creditors would exchange more than $4
billion in debt for about 95 percent of the equity when MGM
emerges from bankruptcy. Owners of Los Angeles-based Spyglass
would get about 5 percent of equity.  Lions Gate is offering about $1.7 billion in stock and debt
to MGM creditors, who would own a 55 percent stake in the
combined company.  Peter Wilkes , a Lions Gate spokesman, declined to comment.
Reuters reported the letter to creditors earlier today.  In its proposal, Lions Gate projects an annual overhead
savings of more than $100 million a year. Cash flow would
increase by about $40 million in fiscal 2011 from projections
made in July. The company has said it anticipates the support of
its three largest  shareholders : Icahn,  Mark Rachesky  and Capital
Group Cos.  Details Lacking  Lions Gate hasn’t provided the documentation to support the
financial projections, said the person. Icahn’s conditional
support, his litigation with Lions Gate and uncertain support
from Rachesky are also drawbacks to the deal, the person said.  Icahn, who is Lions Gate’s largest shareholder, has said
his support of the Vancouver, British Columbia-based company’s
MGM proposal depends on “the combined company having
satisfactory corporate governance provisions.”  He is separately offering to buy Lions Gate for $7.50 a
share and has been battling management for control of the
independent studio since early this year. Icahn has challenged
July a transaction with Rachesky that diluted his stake, a  case 
that went before the British Columbia Supreme Court this month.
The sides are awaiting a decision.  Lions Gate, run from Santa Monica, California, gained 4
cents to $7.47 in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . It
has advanced 29 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Palazzo  in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  