-- Gold Fields Asks Court to Stop Strike From Going Ahead at South Deep Mine
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2010-10-26T09:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/gold-fields-workers-start-strike-at-the-south-deep-mine-labor-union-says.html
Gold Fields Ltd. , Africa’s second-
largest producer of the metal, said it will hear today whether
it has succeeded in avoiding a labor strike at its South Deep
mine in South Africa.  The country’s Labor Court in Johannesburg will decide
whether the planned strike can go ahead, according to company
spokesman  Sven Lunsche . Workers represented by the National
Union of Mineworkers are threatening the action to demand an
improved role for black South Africans in the company, union
spokesman  Lesiba Seshoka  said today by phone.  “If our interdict isn’t successful, we understand that the
strike will start with the night shift,” Lunsche said in a
phone interview from Johannesburg.  South Deep , located about 30 miles (50 kilometers)
southwest of Johannesburg, produced about 265,000 ounces of gold
during the 2010 financial year, according to the company’s
website. Gold Fields expects the mine to produce as much as
354,000 ounces this year, it said.  Gold Fields, which has mines in Ghana, Peru and Australia,
is seeking to reduce its reliance on South Africa, where it
mines about 58 percent of its gold. Production of the metal in
Africa’s largest economy is declining and companies are being
forced to dig deeper to access shrinking reserves.  Gold Fields  fell 78 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 105.72 rand
at 10:36 a.m. in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value
of 74.8 billion rand ($10.8 billion). Shares in the miner have
advanced 7.9 percent since the start of the year, compared with
a  4.6 percent gain  for AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Africa’s largest
producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Alastair Reed  in Johannesburg at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  