-- Goldman Sachs Plans 50-Year Debt as Long Bonds Beat Short: New Issue Alert
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-26T08:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/goldman-plans-debt-as-long-bonds-beat-short-new-issue-alert.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the most
profitable securities firm in Wall Street history, is marketing
50-year debt to individual investors as returns on long-dated
bonds exceed those on shorter-maturity securities.  Goldman Sachs plans to sell $250 million of notes maturing
in November 2060 this week, according to a person familiar with
the transaction. The $25 face value notes will be non-callable
for five years and be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the
New York-based bank said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Company debt maturing in more than 15 years has rallied
14.4 percent this year, beating the 5 percent return on notes
due in one to three years, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. The longer securities have faltered this month
amid speculation Federal Reserve efforts to spur the economy may
reignite inflation. That is likely to be a temporary reversal,
said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist and economist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “Concerns of resurgent inflation are pretty overblown,”
LeBas said. “There’s absolutely appetite for long bonds.”  The longer-dated corporate bonds have lost 1 percent this
month, compared with a 0.4 percent gain on the shorter debt,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporates,
15+ Yrs index and U.S. Corporates, 1-3 Yrs index.  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
company debt instead of Treasuries fell 2 basis points to 179
basis points yesterday, and yields dropped 2 basis points to
3.62 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Corporate Master index. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  National Rural  National Rural Utilities Cooperative Finance Corp.  led
companies issuing $1.8 billion of bonds yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The private, nonprofit cooperate association issued $300
million of three-year notes and $350 million of five-year notes,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. National Rural
Utilities provides members, primarily rural electric utility
systems in the U.S., with a source of financing to supplement
the loan programs of the Rural Utilities Service.  MGM Resorts International , the biggest casino operator on
the Las Vegas Strip, issued $500 million of six-year notes, the
day’s only high-yield, high-risk debt sale, Bloomberg data show.
High-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Junk Spreads  Spreads on speculative-grade debt narrowed 6 basis points
to 590 basis points yesterday, while yields were down 4 basis
points to 7.7 percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index. The yield is the lowest
since June 2007.  Goldman Sachs’ notes may yield 6.125 percent to 6.25
percent, said the person familiar with the offering, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  “People will take 6.25 percent out to infinity these
days,” LeBas said of the sale. “They’re aiming this at yield-
hungry buyers.”  The debt will be marketed to individual investors,
according to a second person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified before the debt is priced.  The following is a description of at least $7.39 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC., the biggest securities firm by
revenue, plans to sell $250 million of 50-year bonds in an
offering directed toward individual investors, according to a
person familiar with the transaction. The debt due November 2060
may yield 6.125 percent to 6.25 percent, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The
securities will be sold in $25 denominations and can’t be
called, or redeemed, for five years, the New York-based bank
said in a regulatory filing.  SAUDI BASIC INDUSTRIES CORP., the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker, plans to sell five-year, dollar-
denominated bonds to refinance debt, Chief Financial Officer
Mutlaq al-Morished said. The notes may yield “in the high 100
basis-point range” over the benchmark mid-swap rate, according
to two people with knowledge of the sale. HSBC Holdings Plc,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are
managing the issue and the notes will be sold through SABIC I
BV., said the people, who declined to be identified because the
terms haven’t been set.  KOREA GAS CORP., the world’s biggest buyer of liquefied
natural gas, plans to raise as much as $1 billion from dollar-
denominated bonds to fund overseas investments, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter. The Seongnam-based company,
which hired five banks to help it sell notes, plans to hold
investor meetings in Asia, said the person, declining to name
the banks and asking not to be identified because the
information is confidential. Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and UBS AG arranged the meetings, the person said.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  Not Rated  BNP PARIBAS HOME LOAN COVERED BONDS SA plans to sell five-
year notes in dollars, according to two people with knowledge of
the sale. Barclays Capital, Bank of America Corp. and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc are managing the sale with BNP Paribas,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  TRAVELLERS INTERNATIONAL HOTEL GROUP INC., the Philippines
casino operator owned by Alliance Global Group Inc. and Genting
Hong Kong Ltd., hired UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Banco de Oro
Unibank Inc. to help it sell seven-year dollar bonds, according
to a person familiar with the offering who asked not to be
identified because the details are private.  UNITED BUSINESS MEDIA LTD., the owner of PR Newswire and
publisher of InformationWeek, plans to sell $500 million of 10-
year notes, according to two people with knowledge of the
offering. Barclays Capital, Credit Suisse Group AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the sale,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  WII COMPONENTS INC., the manufacturer of wood cabinet doors
owned by Behrman Capital LP, plans to sell $115 million of
senior secured five-year notes, the company said in an Oct. 25
statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes may be used to
help fund a tender for outstanding 10 percent senior securities
due 2012, according to the statement.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  VIKING ACQUISITION INC., the Avista Capital Partners-owned
entity that’s buying Clorox Co.’s auto-care business, plans to
sell $250 million of notes to pay for the acquisition, according
to a statement from Moody’s Investors Service. Moody’s assigned
the senior unsecured debt a grade of Caa1, according to the
statement. Standard & Poor’s rates the securities due in 2018 an
equivalent CCC+, it said on Oct. 21. Avista Capital Partners is
also seeking a $300 million term loan and a $50 million
revolving credit line to help pay for the transaction.  CARRIZO OIL & GAS, a Houston-based energy exploration and
production company, plans to sell $325 million of notes maturing
in 2018 in a private offering, it said in a statement
distributed by Marketwire. Proceeds may be used to repay bank
debt and to finance a $300 million tender offer for the
company’s 4.375 percent convertible senior notes due in June
2028, according to the statement. Credit Suisse Group AG, Wells
Fargo & Co. and Royal Bank of Canada are managing the sale,
according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  DUNKIN’ BRANDS INC., owner of Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-
Robbins restaurants, plans to sell $625 million of senior notes
and obtain a $1.35 billion senior credit line to repay
securitized debt and help fund a dividend, the company said in
an Oct. 25 statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes
will be issued through Dunkin’ Finance Corp., according to the
statement. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG will manage
the bond sale, according to a person familiar with the
negotiations, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private.  MOMENTIVE PERFORMANCE MATERIALS INC., a unit of Apollo
Management LP, plans to sell the equivalent of $840 million of
debt in dollars and euros through a private offering, the
company said in a statement distributed by Business Wire.  MOMENTIVE SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INC., the Apollo Management
LP-owned chemical maker formerly known as Hexion Specialty
Chemicals Inc., plans to issue $440 million of 10-year notes,
according to a statement distributed by Business Wire. The debt
may be sold through its Hexion U.S. Finance Corp. and Hexion
Nova Scotia Finance ULC units, it said the statement.  SIMMONS FOODS INC. plans to sell $250 million of second-
lien senior secured notes, according to a person familiar with
the offering. Proceeds from the debt due in 2017 may be used to
help pay for the acquisition of Menu Foods Ltd., said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  PACNET LTD., the operator of undersea phone and Internet
cables in Asia, plans to sell $300 million of five-year bonds,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Barclays Plc,
Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and Standard
Chartered Plc are managing the sale of bonds, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the details are private.  FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD., Australia’s third-biggest
producer of iron ore, plans to sell $2.04 billion of U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds to repay outstanding debt, according to
a statement to the Australian stock exchange. The senior
unsecured notes will be rated BB+ and will mature in October
2015, Fitch Ratings said in a separate statement. The notes may
yield 7 percent to 7.125 percent, according to three people with
knowledge of the transaction, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  RURAL/METRO CORP., the provider of medical transportation
and fire protection, plans to sell $200 million of senior notes
due 2018 through a private offering, the company said in an Oct.
18 statement distributed by Marketwire.  {Added Oct. 19. See  RURL US  .)  HIDILI INDUSTRY INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT LTD., the Chinese
coal mining company, plans to sell $400 million of five-year
dollar bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified as details are private. Moody’s
rated the debt B1 and S&P ranked it BB-, one step higher.  (Added Oct. 19. See  1393 HK  .)  FRIENDFINDER NETWORKS INC., the publisher of Penthouse
magazine, plans to sell $296 million of secured first-lien notes
due 2013, according to a note from Standard & Poor’s. S&P rated
the debt from the private Boca Raton, Florida-based company B.  Offerings in Pipeline  PTA BANK , or Eastern and Southern African Trade and
Development Bank, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. to arrange bond investor meetings in Europe and Asia,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The meetings
will be held in Hong Kong, Singapore, Zurich, Geneva and London,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The company may sell dollar bonds after the
meetings, the people said.  MAQUINARIA ESPECIALIZADA MXO TRUST , a special-purpose
company expected to provide construction machinery services to
Corporacion GEO SAB de CV, hired Banco Santander SA to arrange
bond investor meetings, according to a person with knowledge of
the sale. A dollar bond sale may follow the meetings, to be held
in London, Boston, New York and Los Angeles, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  NOBLE GROUP LTD., the commodities supplier that counts
China’s sovereign wealth fund as a shareholder, is marketing a
sale of perpetual bonds in U.S. dollars, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Noble is offering the notes to
investors to yield about 8.5 percent, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the details are private. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc are managing the benchmark sale, the person said.  CODELCO, the world’s biggest copper producer, hired
Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc to manage a bond sale,
said a person familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. The state-owned company led
the rescue of 33 miners trapped half a mile below Chile’s
Atacama Desert.  CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW plans to sell five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  The sale
of Reg S securities is being arranged by Commerzbank AG, ING
Groep NV and Raiffeisen Bank International, the banker said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, hired Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage a planned $500
million bond sale, its chief executive officer said. The
offering, announced on the Qatar Exchange website, will be
marketed to investors in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an Oct. 20 telephone interview.  SANTANDER U.K. PLC , a unit of Spain’s largest bank, plans
to sell mortgage-backed securities, according to two people
familiar with the transaction. The lender hired Barclays
Capital, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
to help its investment banking unit to arrange the transaction,
said the people, who declined to be named before the deal is
completed. The notes will be issued in dollars, pounds and euros
and sold through Holmes Master Issuer PLC Series 2010-1.  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by S&P.  IRVING PLACE CAPITAL may issue $250 million of senior
secured notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout of Thermadyne
Holdings Corp. and refinance the company’s debt, Thermadyne
Chief Financial Officer Steven Schumm said in an Oct. 5
interview. The company will also arrange a $60 million asset-
based revolving credit line. Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank
of Canada will manage the sale of six-year bonds, Schumm said.  KOREA NATIONAL OIL CORP. hired Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas
SA, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Korea
Development Bank for a sale of dollar bonds, a person familiar
with the deal said on Oct. 6. The company known as KNOC said in
September it plans to raise between $500 million and $1 billion
to fund acquisitions. KNOC is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and A by Standard & Poor’s.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC.  is planning its first
debt offering since its bailout two years ago as the insurer
moves toward independence from the U.S. government, Chairman
Steve Miller said Sept. 29.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 