-- Gold Fields Granted Court Order to Stop Planned Strike at South Deep Mine
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-10-26T15:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/gold-fields-granted-court-order-to-stop-planned-strike-at-south-deep-mine.html
Gold Fields Ltd. , Africa’s second-
largest producer of the metal, said its application to stop a
planned strike at its South Deep mine in South Africa has been
granted pending further evidence.  The country’s Labour Court in Johannesburg decided the
strike shouldn’t go ahead before another hearing to consider
additional evidence, company spokesman  Sven Lunsche  said by
mobile phone today.  Workers represented by South Africa’s National Union of
Mineworkers are threatening the action to demand an improved
role for black South Africans in the company, according to
 Lesiba Seshoka , a union spokesman. The planned strike, due to
start with the night shift today, has been suspended following
the court order, the union said in an e-mailed statement.  “We’ll continue to engage with the union to resolve the
underlying issues that led to this situation,” Lunsche said. A
date for the new hearing is still to be set, he said.  South Deep , located about 30 miles (50 kilometers)
southwest of Johannesburg, produced about 265,000 ounces of gold
during the 2010 financial year, according to the company’s
website. Gold Fields expects the mine to produce as much as
354,000 ounces this year, it said.  Gold Fields, which has mines in Ghana, Peru and Australia,
is seeking to reduce its reliance on South Africa, where it
mines about 58 percent of its gold. Production of the metal in
Africa’s largest economy is declining and companies are being
forced to dig deeper to access shrinking reserves.  Gold Fields  fell 0.5 percent, to 105.93 rand by the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of 74.8
billion rand ($10.8 billion). Shares in the miner have advanced
8.1 percent since the start of the year, compared with a 4.7
percent gain for shares in  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. , Africa’s
largest producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Alastair Reed  in Johannesburg at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  