-- Gold Futures Decline as Investment Demand Eases After Dollar's Rebound
-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 2010-10-26T18:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/gold-futures-decline-as-investment-demand-eases-after-dollar-s-rebound.html
Gold futures declined as investment
demand eased after the dollar’s rebound eroded demand for the
precious metal as an alternative asset. Palladium extended a
rally to the highest price in nine years.  The greenback rose as much as 0.9 percent against a basket
of major currencies. Gold has gained 5.3 percent since Sept. 14,
when the Federal Reserve signaled it may ease monetary policy
further to spur the economy. The dollar has declined 4.1 percent
in that period.  “The dollar is a trading headwind that’s keeping gold from
reasserting its rally,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market
strategist at Lind-Waldock in Chicago.  Gold futures for December delivery fell 30 cents to settle
at $1,338.60 at 1:56 p.m. on the Comex in New York. Earlier, the
metal dropped as much as 0.8 percent. The price rose to a record
$1,388.10 on Oct. 14.  Gold assets in  exchange-traded products  fell 1.63 metric
tons to 2,096.41 tons yesterday, the seventh straight decline,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from 10 providers.  The metal set record highs 16 times from Sept. 14 to Oct.
14 as the dollar slumped on speculation that the Fed will start
a second round of so-called quantitative easing to bolster the
economy. Fed policy makers meet next on Nov. 2.  ‘Last Fumes’  The gold rally has “gone too far, too fast,” said  Tom Pawlicki , an analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Chicago.
“Such breakouts are usually indicative of a market engine that
surges forward on its last fumes before eventually exhausting
its fuel supply.”  Earlier, gold rose as much as 0.4 percent on bets the
greenback will resume a slide, said  Frank Lesh , a trader at
FuturePath Trading LLC in Chicago.  “Metal traders believe the dollar is going to continue
downward, and they’re positioning for the outcome after the Fed
meeting,” Lesh said. “The dollar is inherently weak, and so
far, we’ve had a very minor corrective bounce. The trend hasn’t
changed by any means.”  Silver futures for December delivery rose 28.6 cents, or
1.2 percent, to $23.83 an ounce on the Comex. The metal has
gained 41 percent this year, while gold has climbed 22 percent.  Bart Chilton, a member of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, said today at a hearing in Washington that “there
have been fraudulent efforts to persuade and deviously control”
the silver price.  A CFTC probe of the market is entering the third year.  Palladium Gains  Palladium futures for December delivery jumped $16.65, or
2.7 percent, to $625.45 an ounce on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Earlier, the price reached $627, the highest level for
a most-active contract since June 2001.  Platinum futures for January delivery rose $7, or 0.4
percent, to $1,704 an ounce.  Palladium and platinum are used mostly to make jewelry and
pollution-control devices for cars. Palladium has surged 53
percent this year, and platinum has climbed 16 percent.  Large trucks in the U.S. must cut emissions by as much as
20 percent by 2018 under the first standards planned for work
vehicles, President  Barack Obama ’s administration said
yesterday.  Platinum and palladium “may be additionally supported” by
the proposal,  Mark Pervan  and  Natalie Robertson , Melbourne-based
analysts at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in
a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  