-- Grupo Bimbo Said to Be Lead Bidder for Sara Lee Bakery Unit
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-10-26T20:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/grupo-bimbo-said-to-be-lead-bidder-for-sara-lee-north-american-bakery-unit.html
Grupo Bimbo SAB , the world’s largest
bread maker, is in the lead to buy Sara Lee Corp.’s North
American bakery business to bolster its U.S. operations, said
two people with knowledge of the bidding.  A sale of the business, which includes the largest fresh-
bread brand in the U.S., may fetch more than $1 billion, said
the people, who declined to be identified as the process isn’t
public. A deal would accelerate a broader overhaul of  Sara Lee ,
which is focusing on brands such as its Jimmy Dean meats.  Any deal is probably a few weeks away, and an agreement
could still fall apart in late stages, said the people. Some
private-equity funds are also still looking at the bread
business, though Bimbo has emerged as the likeliest  buyer , they
said. Earlier interest from New York-based Ripplewood Holdings,
which owns Wonder Bread maker Interstate Bakeries Corp., has
waned, the people said.  “Bimbo makes the most sense,” said  John Baumgartner ,
analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New York. “They’ve been
very aggressive in building up market share, and they could
swing a deal for it. I don’t think a private-equity firm would
want to get involved given the amount of money needed to fix
this business.”  Sara Lee rose 31 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $14.81 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , after earlier
dropping as much as 1.8 percent. Grupo Bimbo fell 15 centavos to
92.74 pesos in Mexican trading.  Mike Cummins , a spokesman for Downers Grove, Illinois-based
Sara Lee, declined to comment. Monica Breton, a spokeswoman for
Grupo Bimbo, had no immediate comment.  Jeffrey Taufield , a
spokesman for Ripplewood, declined to comment.  Sara Lee Interest  Apollo Global Management LLC and KKR & Co. both expressed
interest in a possible buyout of Sara Lee earlier this year,
people with knowledge of the situation said this month. The
company decided instead to focus on the sale of its bread
business, they said.  Sara Lee had initially aimed to fetch about $1.5 billion
for the bakery unit and will likely fall short of that amount,
the people said.  Buying the bread unit may help make the U.S. Bimbo’s
largest market, building onto its $2.5 billion purchase of
George Weston Ltd.’s U.S. baking operations last year. Mexico
City-based  Bimbo , led by Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Servitje , now gets more than 40 percent of sales from the U.S.  Bimbo Breakdown  Bimbo, which makes Entenmann’s cakes, Thomas’ English
Muffins and Mrs. Baird’s breads, currently gets the  bulk  of its
sales from Mexico. The baker has cut prices in the U.S. over the
past year as demand slumped, according to  Ana Paula Pedroni , an
analyst with IXE Grupo Financiero SAB in Mexico City.  Sara Lee’s North American bread unit is facing off with
cheaper store brands and regional bakeries such as  Flowers Foods
Inc. . Sales for the division dropped 3.3 percent to $2.13
billion in the year ended July 3, trailing the performance of
other Sara Lee businesses, such as international beverage
operations.  A sale of the bread business would extend the multiyear
reorganization of Sara Lee, which spun off the Hanesbrands Inc.
underwear unit in 2006 and last year agreed to divest its air
freshener and body-care divisions. The company has better growth
prospects for its meat and beverages units, Baumgartner said.  Before looking to sell the bread operations,  Sara Lee  had
tried to attract more customers with products such as white
bread made with whole grains, and marketing campaigns tied to
films such as “Toy Story 3” and “High School Musical.” The
company has also made acquisitions, such as the $72 million
purchase of Butter Krust Baking Co. in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  