-- IBM Board Approves $10 Billion for Stock Repurchases
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-10-26T20:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ibm-s-board-authorizes-10-billion-for-company-s-stock-repurchase-program.html
International Business Machines
Corp.  added $10 billion to a stock-buyback plan, signaling the
world’s biggest computer-services provider will keep using cash
to boost per-share earnings rather than on large acquisitions.  The move brings the amount authorized for repurchases by
the board to $12.3 billion, Armonk, New York-based IBM said in a
statement today. In April, it authorized $8 billion in buybacks.  Since taking over as chief executive officer in 2002,  Sam Palmisano  has spent more than $68 billion on buybacks, about 38
percent of IBM’s current market value. The company has said it
plans to spend about $50 billion on buybacks in the next five
years, compared with about $20 billion on acquisitions, as it
aims to almost double operating earnings per share.  “It’s crucial to their long-term EPS objectives,” said
 Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco,
who rates the shares “neutral” and doesn’t own them. “They
realize the fact that they are a big, mature tech company.”  The company plans to increase operating earnings per share
to $20 by 2015, with about $2.80 coming from repurchases. The
company had $11.1 billion in cash at the end of September.  IBM  climbed 83 cents to $140.67 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have added 7.5 percent
this year.  Smaller Acquisitions  Palmisano has spent over $20 billion on more than 100
 acquisitions  since 2002. His largest purchase was business-
management software maker Cognos Inc. at $5 billion. Last month,
the company agreed to buy Netezza Corp. for $1.7 billion, his
sixth deal that topped $1 billion.  The focus on buying smaller companies contrasts with
competitors such as  Hewlett-Packard Co. , which has spent about
$50 billion over the same span on about half as many deals.  Last month, Palmisano criticized the rival, saying HP has
to pay too much for acquisitions because it cut back on research
and development. IBM spent about $6 billion on research last
year, double HP’s expenditure.  IBM plans to ask for additional buyback authorization at an
April board meeting, according to the statement.  IBM’s per-share earnings have increased more than 10
percent every year since 2005, while sales growth hasn’t met
that metric since 2003.  Repurchases last quarter decreased the number of shares by
5 percent, Chief Financial Officer  Mark Loughridge  said on the
company’s quarterly earnings call this month. The decline, along
with a sales increase, helped increase earnings per share by 18
percent to $2.82, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 