-- Icahn Bids for MGM Studio Debt to Stop Spyglass Offer
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2010-10-26T18:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/icahn-bids-for-mgm-studio-debt-in-push-to-stop-spyglass-entertainment-deal.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  offered to
buy Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.’s senior secured loans for 53 cents
on the dollar, giving the studio’s creditors added enticement to
accept a buyout bid from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.   The offer is conditioned on at least $1.6 billion in
principal amount of loans being tendered, Icahn said today in a
statement. It represents a premium of about 18 percent over the
45 cents the debt fetched before Lions Gate’s Oct. 12 bid. A
separate pledge to buy the debt for 45 cents if creditors oppose
a deal for MGM to be run by Spyglass Entertainment remains in
effect, Icahn said in the statement.  The two offers increase the chances that Los Angeles-based
MGM will accept a $1.7 billion stock and cash proposal from
Vancouver-based  Lions Gate Entertainment . Icahn, 74, is Lions
Gate’s largest shareholder and is pushing for a combination of
the studios as well as pursuing a takeover bid for Lions Gate.  If the conditions are met and the Spyglass offer is
rejected, Icahn said he will purchase enough of the loans to
boost his holding to 51 percent of the total outstanding.  The 45-cent put-rights proposal, made on Oct. 21, provides
a bottom for creditors who keep the debt by allowing them to
sell to Icahn later.  MGM, hobbled by more than $4 billion in debt, told debt
holders in a letter yesterday a reorganization led by Spyglass
Entertainment remains the best option, according to a person
with knowledge of the situation who asked not to be named
because the discussions are private.  Creditors Group  The process that led to the Spyglass proposal was run
primarily by five large creditors -- Dallas-based Highland
Capital Management, Anchorage Advisors, New York-based Davidson
Kempner Capital Management, Solus and Goldman Sachs Group, a
person with knowledge of the matter said in May.  MGM creditors have until Oct. 29 to vote on the Spyglass
plan, which calls for a streamlined bankruptcy.  In the Spyglass scenario, creditors would exchange debt for
about 95 percent of the equity when MGM emerges from bankruptcy.
Owners of Los Angeles-based Spyglass, the independent producer
of the film “The Sixth Sense,” would get about 5 percent.  Lions Gate is offering about MGM creditors 55 percent of
the combined company and $500 million in new debt.  In its proposal, Lions Gate projects an annual overhead
savings of more than $100 million a year. Cash flow would
increase by about $40 million in fiscal 2011 from projections
made in July. The company has said it anticipates the support of
its three largest  shareholders : Icahn,  Mark Rachesky  and Capital
Group Cos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  