-- Iceland Wants Failed Banker Criminal Probes Sped Up
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-10-26T15:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/iceland-parliament-wants-failed-bank-criminal-investigations-to-go-faster.html
Iceland’s parliamentary committee in
charge of probing the country’s financial collapse wants to
speed up investigations of former bank executives and ensure
criminal acts are prosecuted soon.  “I’m growing impatient waiting for indictments from the
special prosecutor,” said Atli Gislason, chairman of the
committee that last month recommended former Prime Minister  Geir H. Haarde  be indicted, in an interview in Reykjavik. “I have
strong indications that there was a lot of criminal activity
within the banks from the beginning of 2008 leading up to their
collapse; criminal acts were committed.”  Since its October 2008 economic meltdown, the island has
created committees to seek out the main agents of its financial
failure and bring them to trial. Haarde on Sept. 28 became the
first political leader in the world to face criminal charges for
his alleged economic mismanagement during the financial crisis.
The former executives of failed  Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Glitnir Bank
hf  and  Landsbanki Islands hf , which together owe creditors about
$86 billion, have yet to be charged.  “I expected the special prosecutor to deliver more
indictments,” said Gislason, who is a lawmaker in the Left
Green junior coalition partner and a Supreme Court attorney. “I
expect something to come out of this in the coming months.”  The investigations, which are being coordinated with the
U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office, have been narrowed down to about 60
cases of financial crime, including money laundering and lending
to related parties, said Special Prosecutor  Olafur Hauksson .  Sentencing  “I’m pretty sure there will be some sentences,” Hauksson
said in an Oct. 24 interview. “When you look at the precedents,
add to that the interests at stake, sentences won’t be suspended
if we decide to proceed,” he said.  Kaupthing, the biggest of the three banks before its
collapse two years ago, lent 1.5 trillion kronur ($13.4 billion)
to related parties, often without collateral, Prime Minister
 Johanna Sigurdardottir  said in August last year, citing internal
bank documents made available on Wikileaks.  Those loans were “if not illegal, completely unethical,”
Sigurdardottir said at the time. Hauksson declined to comment on
the details of any of the cases under investigation.  In 2008, lending to U.K. entrepreneur  Robert Tchenguiz ,
chairman of R20 Ltd., and “related parties” corresponded to
more than 25 percent of Kaupthing’s equity, according to an
April 12 report published by a parliament-appointed Special
Investigative Commission. Tchenguiz, Kaupthing’s biggest retail
borrower, was also a board member in  Exista hf , one of
Kaupthing’s owners.  Solitary Confinement  Kaupthing’s former Chairman  Sigurdur Einarsson , who was
interrogated by Iceland’s special prosecutor in August, has
defended his innocence. Einarsson in an August 2009 open letter
said Sigurdardottir’s assertions that his bank had conducted
“unethical” lending “are not based on reality.”  A Reykjavik court on May 7 ordered that former Kaupthing
Chief Executive Officer  Hreidar Mar Sigurdsson  and  Magnus Gudmundsson , the co-chief executive of a Kaupthing unit in
Luxembourg, be held in solitary confinement to protect the
integrity of the investigation. Sigurdsson and Gudmundsson were
arrested May 6 on suspicion of forgery and market manipulation.
They were released without having charges brought against them.  Gislason said former executives were able to siphon funds
off the banks’ balance sheets. Any delays in the investigation
may impede efforts to bring indictments and hamper prosecutions,
he said. That would also obstruct the task of tracking down
funds needed to reimburse creditors.  Damage Risk  “If these cases drag on for much longer, there’s the risk
that they are damaged,” he said. “There were a lot of people
who obtained insider information and the banks were drained in
the summer of 2008.”  Kaupthing bond holders can expect about 26 cents on the
euro, according to data available on the website of securities
brokerage H.F. Verdbref today. Glitnir bonds are trading at 30
cents, while Landsbanki debt is trading at 11 cents, Verdbref
prices show.  The government wants to introduce a bank tax next year as
part of a series of measures to reduce state debt created by the
island’s banking failure, said Helgi Hjorvar, chairman of
Iceland’s parliamentary economic and tax committee, in an
interview today. A proposal for a financial levy will be
included in the budget, he said.  According to the head of the country’s regulator, the
island’s financial system has yet to become “civilized.”  “We’ve moved in the right direction, but we still have a
bit to go,” said  Gunnar Andersen , FSA director, in an Oct. 24
interview. “Things don’t get better overnight -- they collapse
overnight, but they don’t get better overnight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar Valdimarsson  in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  