-- Michael Jordan’s Gold Gift Watch Will Be Auctioned at Sotheby’s
-- B y   L i n d s a y   P o l l o c k
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/michael-jordan-s-gold-gift-watch-will-be-auctioned-tomorrow-at-sotheby-s.html
After the Chicago Bulls won the
1997-98 NBA championship, their sixth title in eight years,
 Michael Jordan  gave assistant coach  Tex Winter  a gold Patek
Philippe wristwatch with the engraving, “Thanks, MJ.”  The elegant timepiece is expected to fetch up to $12,000
tomorrow when it’s auctioned by Winter’s family at  Sotheby’s  in
New York as part of the Important Watches and Clocks sale.
Winter, 88, suffered a stroke last year.  The 195-lot sale, including flowery 18th-century enamel
pendant watches and wooden marine chronometers, is projected to
bring in up to $4.9 million.  Demand for high-end timepieces faltered after the 2008
financial meltdown, but prices have rebounded. Sotheby’s last
New York sale, held in April, brought in $3.5 million. Five of
the top 10 lots were acquired by private Chinese collectors.  “There’s a lot more confidence in the market right now,”
said Aaron Rich, vice president of Sotheby’s New York watch
department.  However, the austere times have led to simpler tastes in
watches, according to Rich.  “There was a moment when everything was big and set with
diamonds,” he said. “People were bidding on things because
they were gigantic. Companies are now starting to scale back.”  Song-Playing Clock  The most expensive item at tomorrow’s auction is expected
to be an ornate, late 18th-century table clock, which plays four
songs and is topped by a miniature Gothic dome. Slated to fetch
up to $800,000, the clock from Francis Perigal in London was
produced for export to China and later wound up in the hands of
noted Swiss collector Gustave Loup.  Also on sale is a 1925 Cartier agate clock, with a dial set
with turquoise kingfisher feathers. The top estimated sale price
is $30,000.  Among the wristwatches for sale is a 1968 gold Patek
Philippe with a perpetual calendar and chronograph. Rich said
the watch originally cost a few thousand dollars and is now
expected to fetch up to $350,000.  It’s being sold by its original owner, who wore it daily
for more than 40 years, according to Sotheby’s.  “It’s the most desirable, elite watch Patek made,” Rich
said.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Lindsay Pollock  in New York at  lindsaypollock@yahoo.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 