-- Michelin Quarterly Revenue Jumps 24% on Truck Recovery, Beats Estimates
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-26T16:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/michelin-quarterly-revenue-jumps-24-on-truck-recovery-beats-estimates.html
Michelin & Cie ., the world’s second-
largest tiremaker, said third-quarter revenue rose 24 percent,
helped by demand from truckmakers and logistics companies in
Europe and South America.  Sales advanced to 4.65 billion euros ($6.4 billion) from
3.75 billion euros a year earlier, Michelin said in a statement
after the market close in Paris today. Analysts had expected
sales of 4.4 billion euros, according to the  average  of eight
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales were lifted by “continued growth across all markets,
at a faster pace than expected at the start of the year,”
Clermont-Ferrand, France-based Michelin said. The company
reiterated its 12 percent volume-sales growth forecast for 2010.  Michelin is pushing an expansion in India, Brazil and China
to reduce its dependence on European and North American markets.
The tiremaker last month announced a surprise 1.22 billion-euro
share sale to finance new plant investments, completing the
rights issue on Oct. 21.  Passenger-car tire sales rose 20 percent to 2.52 billion
euros in the quarter, while heavy-truck tires surged 27 percent
to 1.53 billion euros. Specialty tires for airplanes and
earthmovers, Michelin’s smallest and most profitable division,
recorded a 33 percent sales surge to 603 million euros as the
recovery spurred construction.  The sales gain was led by a 38 percent increase in
industry-wide sales to truckmakers, which jumped 57 percent in
South America, 45 percent in Europe and 26 percent in North
America, according to Michelin figures.  Michelin, which ranks behind  Bridgestone Corp.  of Japan in
global production, aims to add the equivalent of a new factory
every year to harness annual tire-market growth averaging 9
percent in emerging markets, compared with less than 2 percent
in western Europe, Managing Partner  Jean-Dominique Senard  said
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  