-- Storm in U.S. Midwest Knocks Out Electricity, Flights
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-10-26T19:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/midwest-storm-knocks-out-power-in-illinois-slows-o-hare-airport-flights.html
A Midwestern storm that may become
the region’s second-most severe on record knocked out power to
thousands in Illinois, Indiana and Michigan and forced the
cancellation of hundreds of flights at Chicago airports.  The  cyclonic system , whipping thunderstorms off its tail,
was moving northeast into Canada while lashing states in the
eastern and central U.S. with wind, rain and tornadoes.  The storm’s central pressure, an indication of its
strength, was one of the lowest recorded in the Northern
Hemisphere at about 8:30 a.m. Chicago time, said  Travis Hartman ,
energy weather manager and meteorologist for MDA Federal Inc.’s
EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville, Maryland.  “It’s actually pretty impressive; we’re seeing wind, hail,
rain, tornados, pretty much the sky is the limit,” Hartman
said. “Everywhere from Chicago to the Appalachian Mountains
looks to see some sort of severe weather.”  The pressure is equivalent to a Category 2 hurricane, and
the system has upper-atmosphere wind speeds of more than 100 mph
(161 kph), said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of Weather Underground
in Ann Arbor, Michigan. The storm is expected to last through
tomorrow, the  National Weather Service  said.  “It is not a just a six-hour wind event, it is a prolonged
wind event for a couple of days,” said  Tom Kines , a senior
expert meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc . in State College,
Pennsylvania.  Moving East  The tail of the storm will make its way to New York
overnight, losing much of its punch by the time it reaches the
East Coast, said Lauren Nash, a weather service meteorologist in
Upton. Winds will be about 10 mph to 15 mph, she said.  Chicago O’Hare airport traffic resumed after departures
were halted for about an hour earlier today, said  Paul Takemoto ,
a spokesman for the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration. Winds
at the airport gusted as high as 46 mph.  More than 450 flights were canceled at O’Hare as of 1:30
p.m. local time, according to the Chicago Department of
Aviation. Delays were running 45 minutes or longer at O’Hare,
while Chicago Midway delays were about 30 minutes.  O’Hare is the second-busiest U.S. airport and is a hub for
 United Continental Holdings Inc.  and  AMR Corp.’s  American
Airlines. Midway’s largest carrier is Southwest Airlines Co.  The U.S. Coast Guard closed parts of the Mississippi River
in Iowa and Illinois to maritime traffic.  Power Out  As many as 85,000 Commonwealth Edison customers in the
Chicago area were without power as of 7:30 a.m. local time,
according to a statement on the company’s website. Chicago,
Joliet and Aurora were the hardest hit.  In northern Indiana and southern Michigan, 13,539 customers
were without power as of 1:30 p.m. Eastern time, according to
Indiana Michigan Power, a unit of American Electric Power.  The storm was forecast to be the second-most severe on
record for the Midwest, surpassing the Nov. 10, 1975, storm that
sank the freighter Edmund Fitzgerald in Lake Superior, an event
immortalized by singer  Gordon Lightfoot , according to the
weather service.  The  Edmund Fitzgerald storm  had a central pressure of 28.95
inches. The strongest storm recorded in the Great Lakes region
was the  “Great Ohio Blizzard”  of January 1978, which had a
central pressure of 28.05 inches.  Tornado Alerts  Tornado watches extend from western New York through
Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, Virginia, Kentucky,
Tennessee, North Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi. A
watch was also in effect for southern Ontario, according to
 Environment Canada .  At one point, 11 simultaneous tornado warnings were issued
along the squall line at the tail of the system, Masters said. A
tornado warning means that radar has picked up rotation in the
clouds or someone has reported seeing an actual funnel.  “This is a once in every five-to-10-years event we have
going on here,” Masters said.  The storm also triggered a blizzard warning in North Dakota
and parts of Montana, according to the weather service. As much
as 9 inches of snow may fall near the Canadian and U.S. border.  The center of the system is currently near St. Cloud,
Minnesota, and expected to move northeast toward Hudson Bay in
Canada, Kines said.  Low Pressure  The lowest pressure reading measured so far for the storm
was about 28.35 inches, Kines said.  When a barometer reads about 30 inches it usually means
good weather. “When you start talking about pressure below 29
inches, it is very unusual and it represents a very strong
storm,” Kines said. “Pressure-wise, it is stronger than some
hurricanes.”  When Hurricane Earl reached Category 3 strength in the
Atlantic at the end of August, its central pressure was recorded
at 28.20 inches.  Great Lakes cyclones aren’t like hurricanes, said Andrew
Krein, a  National Weather Service  meteorologist in Romeoville,
Illinois. The storms gather their energy from the jet stream and
the upper atmosphere, while hurricanes draw their power from
warm ocean waters and have the strongest winds wound tightly
around the core.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomber.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 