-- Lilly's Erbitux May Help Some Cancer Patients With Mutation, Study Finds
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-10-26T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/lilly-s-erbitux-may-help-some-cancer-patients-with-mutation-study-finds.html
Eli Lilly & Co.  and  Merck KGaA ’s
Erbitux helped a group of cancer patients thought to be immune
to the treatment in a study that contradicts earlier assumptions
of the way the drug works in those with a genetic mutation.  People with one form of mutation of a gene called KRAS
lived longer when treated with Erbitux alongside chemotherapy
than did those with more common versions of the mutation,
according to data to be published tomorrow in the  Journal of the
American Medical Association . Researchers analyzed records from
579 patients with advanced colorectal cancer treated between
2001 and 2008.  The findings suggest that KRAS mutation alone may not be a
black-and-white test for whether patients will be helped by
Erbitux, said Sabine Tejpar, one of the study’s authors and an
associate professor at the  University of Leuven  in Belgium, in a
telephone interview. Doctors need another study to know for
certain whether Erbitux helps people with one form of the
mutation, she said.  “This is very exciting,” she said. “Before we apply it,
we need more precise measurements.”  People with a so-called codon 13 mutation of KRAS lived a
median of 7.6 months, and lived four months before their tumors
progressed, while taking a combination of Erbitux and
chemotherapy, the researchers found. That compared with 5.7
months of survival, and 1.9 months before tumors progressed, for
patients with other forms of the mutation.  “This is useful hypothesis-generating work,” Tim Maughan,
a professor of cancer studies at the School of Medicine at
 Cardiff University  in Wales, wrote in an e-mail. Maughan wasn’t
affiliated with the study.  Future Research  Today’s data alone isn’t enough evidence to change the way
doctors prescribe the drug, Maughan said, though doctors should
watch what type of KRAS mutation colon cancer patients have.
Future research should consider patients with a codon 13
mutation for Erbitux treatment, he said.  Known chemically as cetuximab, Erbitux is approved for
advanced colon cancer as well as head and neck tumors. Last
year, the drug’s prescribing information was changed to say that
it doesn’t help patients whose tumors have a KRAS mutation.  Lilly, based in Indianapolis, and New York-based  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co.  market Erbitux in the U.S., while Merck, based
in Darmstadt, Germany, and unrelated to the U.S. drugmaker Merck
& Co., sells it elsewhere.  The researchers received funding from the Institute for the
Promotion of Innovation Through Science and Technology in
Flanders, Belgium; the Fund for Scientific Research in Flanders;
the Belgian Federation Against Cancer, and the Italian
Association for Cancer Research and Oncology Ca’Granda Onlus
Foundation in Milan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Frankfurt at  nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  