-- Lime Wire, Web Music Distributor, Ordered to Block File-Sharing Service
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-10-27T01:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/lime-wire-told-by-judge-to-block-its-music-file-sharing-service.html
Lime Wire LLC, operator of a website
found liable for inducing the infringement of music copyrights,
was ordered to disable its program that allows users to
download, upload and trade music recordings.  U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  in New York ordered the
file-sharing website operator to cease all “distribution and
support” of its P2P file-sharing service, Lime Wire spokeswoman
Tiffany Guarnaccia said today in an e-mailed statement. The
court injunction wasn’t immediately available online.  In a case brought by the four largest record companies,
Wood in May found Lime Wire liable for inducing copyright
infringement by allowing users to download recordings without
authorization. Wood said a trial in January will determine the
damages to be paid by Lime Wire and its founder,  Mark Gorton .
The amount of damages will depend on the number of infringed
works.  “Naturally, we’re disappointed with this turn of events,”
Lime Wire Chief Executive Officer George Searle said in a
statement. “However, at this time, we have no option but to
cease further distribution and support of our software.”  Lime Wire “remains open for business,” Searle said in the
statement, and the company is “creating a completely new music
service.”  The complaint was brought by labels operated by Vivendi
SA’s Universal Music Group,  Sony Corp. ’s Sony Music
Entertainment, Warner Music Group Corp. and Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd.’s EMI Group unit.  The court injunction will “start to unwind the massive
piracy machine that Lime Wire and Gorton used to enrich
themselves immensely,” Jonathan Lamy, a spokesman for the
Recording Industry Association of America, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The labels’ case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC,
06-05936, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 