-- Most U.S. Stocks Retreat as Kimberly-Clark, U.S. Steel Fall
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-26T20:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/index-futures-drop-before-house-price-report-u-s-steel-falls-in-germany.html
Most U.S. stocks fell, led by
consumer-staples companies, as results that disappointed
investors at companies from Kimberly-Clark Corp. to U.S. Steel
Corp. overshadowed higher-than-estimated consumer confidence.  Kimberly-Clark Corp. , the maker of Huggies diapers and
Kleenex tissues, lost 5.8 percent as profit dropped amid higher
costs for materials.  U.S. Steel  tumbled 3.4 percent after a
surprise quarterly loss because of repair costs. International
Business Machines Corp. climbed 0.6 percent after its board
authorized buying back as much as $10 billion in shares.  About eight stocks retreated for every seven that rose on
U.S. exchanges. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little
changed at 1,185.64 at 4 p.m. in New York, with 273 companies
declining. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 5.41 points, or
less than 0.1 percent, to 11,169.46, with IBM contributing the
most to the gain in the share price-weighted average.  “We’ve had some modestly disappointing earnings reports
from a couple of bellwether companies such as U.S. Steel,” said
 Dean Gulis , part of a group that manages $3 billion for Loomis
Sayles & Co. in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. “The earnings
environment is a little less buoyant than it has been and people
are using the opportunity to consolidate their positions after a
strong run.”  Four-Day Rally  The S&P 500 climbed for a fourth day yesterday, closing at
the highest level since May 3, after the Group of 20 nations
pledged to avoid “competitive devaluation” of currencies and
investors bet the Federal Reserve will announce further bond
purchases next week. The index has rallied 13 percent since the
end of August amid speculation the Fed will pump more cash into
the economy to safeguard the recovery.  Wall Street strategists have reduced their recommended
investment allocations of equities amid the rally from the
market’s 2010 lows in July. Strategists currently advise an
average 57.7 percent of assets be put in stocks, down from 60
percent in September and 61 percent in August and July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A correction is overdue,”  Marc Faber  said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan .” Investors’ disappointment about the size of
quantitative easing and the U.S. election may be the catalyst
for a downturn in the market, according to the publisher of the
 Gloom, Boom & Doom  report.  “But I wouldn’t think the bear market is around the
corner,” he said. “There will be a buying opportunity on a
correction and maybe we will have a crack-up boom in stocks.”  Consumer Confidence  Benchmark indexes recovered from their lows of the day in
the first half hour of trading after the Conference Board’s
 confidence index  increased to 50.2 from a revised 48.6 in
September. The proportion of people who said jobs were plentiful
fell to the lowest level this year and income expectations were
the weakest since April 2009.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency said in a separate
report that home prices climbed 0.4 percent in August, defying
economists’ median forecast for a decrease and overshadowing an
S&P/CaseShiller index showing prices in 20 cities decreased from
July.  U.S. Steel dropped 3.4 percent to $40.85. The country’s
largest producer of the metal by volume posted a surprise third-
quarter loss after spending $86 million because of repair costs.
Excluding a one-time currency gain and an asset sale, the loss
was $1.21 a share, which compares with an average estimate for
profit of 23 cents from 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
gained 60 percent to $4.5 billion from $2.82 billion.  Steelmakers Slump  Larger European rival  ArcelorMittal  tumbled 5 percent in
Amsterdam after the steelmaker said earnings this quarter would
drop as much as a third as prices fall and costs rise.  AK Steel Holding Corp ., which last month revised its third-
quarter forecast to an operating loss, slipped 4 percent to
$12.84 after posting a loss of 54 cents a share, 41 percent more
than the average analyst estimate.  Kimberly-Clark fell 5.8 percent to $62.61 after posting a
19 percent decline in third-quarter profit as commodity costs
increased. Net income was $1.14 a share while twelve analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated  average  profit of $1.28 a
share. The company lowered its full-year profit  forecast  to as
little as $4.60 a share, from a previous minimum of $4.80.  Shares companies that make consumer staples slumped 0.4
percent as a group, the biggest decline among 10 industries in
the S&P 500.  DuPont Co. slipped 1 percent to $47.22. The third-biggest
chemical maker posted a 10 percent drop in third-quarter net
income to $367 million, topping analyst estimates. DuPont raised
its forecast for full-year earnings excluding some items to
about $3.10 a share. That compares with a previous forecast of
$2.90 to $3.05 and the average analyst estimate of $3.03.  ‘Air of Uncertainty’  “Although market conditions have improved in recent weeks,
an air of uncertainty persists, with the future direction of the
economy remaining cloudy,” said  Bob Doll , vice chairman of
 BlackRock Inc ., in his weekly market commentary. “Equity
markets continue to price in modest economic recovery. One key
issue for stocks in the year ahead will be whether corporate
earnings are able to hold up in the face of slow nominal
growth.”  Lexmark International Inc.  declined 21 percent to $37.71
for the biggest loss in the S&P 500. The maker of laser and
inkjet printers said third-quarter adjusted earnings were $1.09
a share, exceeding the 98-cent average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments, IBM  Texas Instruments Inc., the second-largest U.S. chipmaker,
lost 0.4 percent to $28.88. The company forecast fourth-quarter
revenue between $3.36 billion and $3.64 billion and cited a
slowdown in consumer-electronics spending. The midpoint of that
range fell short of the $3.52 billion average estimate of
analysts, according to Bloomberg data. Profit will be 59 cents
to 67 cents a share, the chipmaker said, compared with a
projection of 63 cents.  IBM rose 0.6 percent to $140.67. The world’s biggest
computer-services provider said its board authorized an
additional $10 billion of stock repurchase to bring the amount
of money authorized for buybacks to $12.3 billion.  Ford Motor Co. , the second-largest U.S. automaker, and U.S.
Steel were among 46 companies in the S&P 500  scheduled  to report
results today. Earnings-per share have topped analysts’
estimates at more than 85 percent of the gauge’s companies that
have posted third-quarter results since Oct. 7, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ford, Coach  Ford, the world’s most profitable automaker, gained 1.5
percent to $14.36 after reporting record third-quarter  net
income  of $1.69 billion and saying it is paying down debt faster
than planned as new models boost its U.S. market share. The
results topped the 107-year-old company’s previous third-quarter
high of $1.13 billion, set in 1997. Excluding some items, profit
was 48 cents a share, beating the 38-cent average of 12
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Coach Inc.  jumped the most in the S&P 500, climbing 12
percent to $49.78. The largest U.S. maker of luxury leather
handbags reported a first-quarter profit of 63 cents a share,
exceeding the 55-cent average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shares of retailers, hotel operators, restaurant companies
and others companies that rely on discretionary consumer
spending climbed 1.1 percent collectively for the biggest
advance among 10 groups in the S&P 500.  “It’s coming down to company earnings and individual stock
selection now,” said Don Wordell, a fund manager for Atlanta-
based RidgeWorth Capital Management, which oversees about $62
billion. “The market has clearly priced in the macro variables.”  New Normal  Mohamed El-Erian , who popularized the “new normal” term
to describe Pacific Investment Management Co.’s view that the
global economy has entered of period of slower growth and lower
investment returns, said the scenario isn’t such a sure bet.  The likelihood of a new normal outcome is 55 percent,
according to the chief executive officer of the Newport Beach,
California-based company, who highlighted the term in a 2008
book.  “It is our base case, but it’s not our dominant case,”
El-Erian, co-chief investment officer of the firm that runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, said in an interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “We are looking at a world where
there are many possible outcomes. It’s no longer like the old
days when we can be confident in just one outcome.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 