-- Messi, Iniesta, Ronaldo Are Among Finalists for FIFA Player of Year Award
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-10-26T10:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/lionel-messi-andres-iniesta-are-nominated-for-fifa-player-of-year-award.html
Andres Iniesta , who scored the
winning goal in Spain’s World Cup final victory in July, is
among seven members of the team shortlisted for  FIFA’s  world
player of the year award.  The others are Xabi Alonso,  Iker Casillas , Cesc Fabregas,
Carles Puyol, David Villa and Xavi Hernandez.  Lionel Messi, last year’s winner, and Cristiano Ronaldo
were also among the 23 players shortlisted, world ruling body
FIFA said in an e-mailed statement. The winner will be announced
at a Jan. 10 gala in Zurich.  Wesley Sneijder was one of four players on Inter Milan’s
Champions League-winning team to be nominated along with Julio
Cesar, Maicon and Samuel Eto’o.  The shortlist for the so-called FIFA Ballon d’Or was drawn
up by FIFA and France Football magazine. The winner will be
picked by national team captains and coaches and international
media, the statement said. in July, FIFA and the magazine agreed
to merge their awards.  England’s Premier League, the richest in world soccer, has
three players in the shortlist: Arsenal’s Fabregas,  Didier Drogba  of Chelsea and Asamoah Gyan of Sunderland. There are no
English players.  The short list: Xabi Alonso (Spain), Daniel Alves (Brazil),
Iker Casillas (Spain), Cristiano Ronaldo (Portugal), Didier
Drogba (Ivory Coast), Samuel Eto’o (Cameroon), Cesc Fabregas
(Spain), Diego Forlan (Uruguay), Asamoah Gyan (Ghana), Andres
Iniesta (Spain), Julio Cesar (Brazil), Miroslav Klose (Germany),
Philipp Lahm (Germany), Maicon (Brazil), Lionel Messi
(Argentina), Thomas Mueller (Germany),  Mesut Ozil  (Germany),
Carles Puyol (Spain), Arjen Robben (Netherlands), Bastian
Schweinsteiger (Germany), Wesley Sneijder (Netherlands), David
Villa (Spain) and Xavi Hernandez (Spain).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  