-- Iran Confirms It Provided Aid to Afghanistan Government, Plans to Continue
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-26T08:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/iran-confirms-it-provided-aid-to-afghanistan-government-plans-to-continue.html
Iran’s Foreign Ministry confirmed
the payment of aid to neighboring Afghanistan, a day after the
U.S. said Iran shouldn’t interfere in Afghan internal affairs.  “The government has provided assistance,” the ministry
spokesman, Ramin Mehmanparast, said today at a news conference
aired live by  state television , in response to a question about
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ’s confirmation of the payments.
“Plans for the reconstruction of Afghanistan have been
followed, engineering projects have been executed, and they will
continue in the future."  Iran has offered assistance in euros or dollars since ‘‘the
transitional government of Afghanistan was established,’’ Karzai
told reporters yesterday. ‘‘Sometimes it gives 500,000 euros and
sometimes less,’’ he said, adding that his chief of staff, Umar
Daudzai, receives the money according to ‘‘my orders.’’  The New York Times said two days ago that in August Iran’s
ambassador to Afghanistan, Feda Hussein Maliki, gave a plastic
bag filled with euros to Daudzai on Karzai’s personal aircraft.
The Times cited an Afghan official who spoke on condition of
anonymity. The payment, part of a stream that totals millions of
dollars, was intended to promote Iran’s interests and to counter
U.S. and other Western influence in Afghanistan, the Times said,
citing unidentified Afghan and Western officials in Kabul.  ‘‘We think countries must all help to lay the foundation
for Afghanistan’s economic reconstruction,” Mehmanparast said.
“Foreign troops’ excuses for being present there are not
acceptable.”  Philip J. Crowley, a U.S. State Department spokesman, said,
“We understand that Iran and Afghanistan are neighbors and will
have a relationship,” according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “But Iran should not interfere with the internal
affairs of the Afghan government."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  