-- Tariq Aziz, Ex-Iraqi Premier, Sentenced to Death by Hanging, Iraqiya Says
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-10-26T09:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/iraq-court-hands-down-death-sentence-to-former-deputy-prime-minister-aziz.html
Tariq Aziz  and two more of Saddam
Hussein’s top aides were sentenced to hang by an Iraqi high
court, al-Iraqiya television channel said.  Aziz, a former deputy prime minister and foreign minister,
was found guilty by the High Criminal Court “in the case of the
liquidation of members of religious parties,” according to the
judgement.  The court also sentenced Abed Hmood and Saadoon Shaker to
death by hanging for the same crimes, according to the National
Iraqi News Agency. Hmood was the personal secretary of  Saddam Hussein  while Shaker was interior minister and member of the
regime’s Revolutionary Command Council.  In March 2009, Aziz was sentenced to 15 years in prison for
crimes against humanity in the killing of Baghdad merchants in
the 1990s.  Aziz was the 8 of spades in a deck of cards issued by the
U.S. to portray the most-wanted members of the Saddam Hussein
regime after the U.S.-led invasion that ousted his regime in
2003.  Aziz surrendered to U.S. forces about a month after the
start of the 2003 invasion. His house was ransacked and his
personal belongings destroyed by the mob during the invasion.  He was held in a U.S. prison until being handed over to the
Iraqi authorities in July as U.S. forces started a phased
military pullout. Aziz was frequently treated for heart problems
while in jail.  Members of the former regime were jailed or became wanted
for atrocities during the Saddam Hussein rule. Saddam Hussein
and a number of aides have since been convicted by Iraqi justice
courts and executed by hanging.  Aziz, a 74-year-old Chaldean Catholic Christian, was for a
long time the regime’s interlocutor with the international
community.  Shortly before the 2003 invasion, Aziz travelled on a last-
ditch mission to meet the Pope at the Vatican in a failed
attempt to prevent the war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  