-- Ireland Doubles Budget Savings Target to 15 Billion Euros
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-10-26T17:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ireland-doubles-budget-savings-target-to-15-billion-euros.html
Ireland’s government plans 15
billion euros ($21 billion) of austerity measures over four
years, twice its previous target, to convince investors it can
get its budget deficit under control and cope with the cost of a
banking bailout.  The budget cuts are necessary to push the country’s
shortfall below the European Union limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product by 2014, the government in Dublin said in an e-
mailed statement today. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  will
present details of the plan next month.  The higher target reflects a weaker economic recovery than
the government had expected, Lenihan said. Investors are
concerned that the government won’t be able to push down the
deficit after it said the shortfall will reach about 32 percent
of GDP in 2010, due to a one-time “spike” from bank-bailout
costs. Still, Lenihan has said that the country won’t have to
tap the EU’s 750 billion-euro rescue fund.  “A 15 billion-euro figure seems to reflect the expectation
that growth isn’t going to deliver much of the adjustment,”
said  Austin Hughes , chief economist at KBC Ireland in Dublin.
“The problem is that the measures themselves could cause growth
to be even weaker. The issue now is to find ways to ensure the
economy grows.”  The government canceled its remaining debt auctions for
this year after the yield on 10-year Irish bonds rose to a
record 454 basis points above benchmark German bunds last month.
The  yield premium  on Ireland’s 10-year debt fell to 393 basis
points today from 399 basis points yesterday.  The government may not be able to count on faster economic
growth to help boost revenue. Ireland will have a “weak”
recovery, with exports the only positive contributor to growth
next year, Dublin-based securities firm Davy said today. Irish
GDP may rise 0.3 percent this year, it forecast.  At the same time, the country may need to pay 50 billion
euros to rescue lenders including  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , it
said in September.  It’s “neither credible nor realistic to delay these
measures,” the government said. “To do so would further
undermine confidence in our ability to meet our obligations and
responsibilities and delay a return to sustainable growth and
full employment in our economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at  fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net . 