-- Irish Bondholders in Pain Again as Cost Cuts Bite: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-10-27T10:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/irish-bondholders-suffer-pain-again-as-budget-cuts-take-toll-euro-credit.html
Bond investors are losing faith in
Ireland’s plan to lower the deficit as spending cuts threaten to
undermine economic growth, reducing government revenue.  Irish 10-year bond yields climbed within 50 basis points of
the 454 basis-point record spread, set Sept. 29, relative to
similar-maturity German bunds.  Portugal ’s spread fell about 1
percentage point against the German benchmark in the past month,
the Greek-German yield gap narrowed 102 basis points and the
Spanish spread was close to the lowest level since Aug. 10.  Ireland was the first euro-region nation to announce budget
reductions in 2008 in response to the sovereign debt crisis. The  bond market  responded with yields on 10-year Irish securities
falling to a low of 4.43 percent in April. Investors now
question whether austerity measures will push the economy back
into recession. Yields have increased to 6.45 percent.  “If the Irish economy grows 1 percent less than forecast
or the deficit is 1 percent higher than we forecast, then the
debt trajectory becomes upward sloping,” said Mohit Kumar, a
fixed-income strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “The
market doesn’t completely trust that Ireland has managed to draw
a line underneath the banking sector.”  The Irish-German 10-year yield spread widened nine basis
points to 402 basis points as of 11:42 a.m. in London.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said Oct. 20 that a “united
effort” is required to fight the deficit as growth is weaker
than originally estimated. He aims to narrow the budget gap to 3
percent of gross domestic product from about 12 percent this
year, a figure that rises to 32 percent when costs of the
banking rescue are included. Ministry officials are studying a
budget-savings package of 3 billion euros ($4.2 billion) to 7
billion euros for 2011.  ‘Smother the Patient’  “The danger is you smother the patient just as he is
trying to get on his feet,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist
at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “I am not convinced the
market just wants to see a slash-and-burn approach. It wants
some sort of sign that the economy can grow.”  The government said yesterday it will have to reduce
spending and raise taxes by as much as 15 billion euros to reach
its targets by 2014, twice what it had projected in the 2010
budget. Lenihan will announce details of the plan next month.  The increase is due to “lower growth prospects both at
home and abroad and higher debt interest costs,” the government
said in a statement. While the measures “will have an impact on
the living standards of citizens,” it is “neither credible nor
realistic to delay them,” it said.  ‘Danger’  Prime Minister Brian Cowen told lawmakers in the parliament
today that the budget adjustment may be reduced only if economic
growth and  job creation  are stronger than forecast.  Unemployment has doubled to 13.7 percent since 2008 to
stand close to a 16-year high, while GDP shrank 1.2 percent in
the second quarter from the first quarter. Further signs of
economic deterioration emerged last week when  Britvic Plc  said
bar sales fell 11 percent in Ireland.  “There is a danger for countries like Ireland that have
huge deficits that cutting spending will not be enough and the
situation will deteriorate,” said Ralf Ahrens, who helps manage
about $20 billion as head of fixed income at Frankfurt Trust and
holds Irish  government bonds . “There is this central question
of where does growth come from.”  Bank Bailout  The deficit is about 19 billion euros, equivalent to about
12 percent of GDP, according to government estimates. It’s the
highest of the so-called euro peripherals, with  Spain ’s budget
gap at about 9 percent,  Greece ’s at 10 percent,  Italy ’s at 5
percent, and Portugal’s at 8 percent.  Ireland’s fiscal deficit rises to 32 percent of GDP this
year when including the 33 billion euros earmarked to bail out
lenders such as Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Ltd.,  Allied Irish Banks
Plc  and Irish Nationwide Building Society. The final cost may be
as much as 50 billion euros, the government said Sept. 30.  “The bottom line is Ireland suffered the most heated
property and banking bubble,” said Brian Devine, an economist
at NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin. “The aftermath of such bubbles
has never been anything but painful.”  Credit-default swaps linked to Irish debt were at 422 basis
points yesterday, falling from a record 485 on Sept. 28,
according to CMA prices. The cost of insuring Greek debt for
five years was 662 basis points, the most expensive in  Europe .  Pimco’s View  Greece may default within three years because budget-
cutting measures won’t be enough to reduce the nation’s debt
burden, Pacific Investment Management Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Mohamed A. El-Erian  said Oct. 25 at a conference
sponsored by the Economist magazine in  New York .  A default is possible as long as “it is done through
orderly restructuring and repricing to retain competitiveness,”
El-Erian said at the meeting.  Europe’s financial crisis erupted at the end of 2009 after
Greece’s newly elected socialist government said the nation’s
budget deficit was twice as big as the previous administration
had disclosed. The European Union and  International Monetary
Fund  approved an aid package on May 2 in exchange for the Greek
government agreeing to cut public-sector wages and pensions and
raise taxes on fuel, alcohol and cigarettes.  In Ireland, the austerity plan may push the economy into a
“prolonged recession”, the country’s Economic and Social
Research Institute said on Oct. 21, suggesting the government
push back its targets by two years to 2016.  The risk is “the medicine is too severe so that, like
chemotherapy, it puts the patient into decline,” said John
Fitzgerald, an ESRI economist and a member of the country’s
central bank board. “We have got to get that right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  