-- Istanbul Developers Aim to Restore Ottoman-Era Glory to Slums
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2010-10-27T09:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/istanbul-real-estate-developers-bet-on-return-of-city-s-ottoman-era-glory.html
When Emrah Gultekin looks at the
crumbling facades, dangling laundry lines and narrow streets of
Istanbul’s working-class  Balat district , he envisions a
prosperous neighborhood with the best views and highest prices
in the city.  Gultekin, the 37-year-old chief executive officer of a
local property developer, plans to spend $140 million to
renovate more than 60 buildings, mostly from the early to mid-
19th century, in Balat. The rundown neighborhood surrounded by
Byzantine walls is within walking distance of Istanbul’s
 Sultanahmet  tourist area.  “That cafeteria used to be used by drug dealers; now it’s
part of a college,” he said, pointing to a wooden platform with
tables occupied by art students. “This place has a lot of
potential, but no one wants to move here at the moment.”  Gultekin said he expects the values of the mainly
residential properties may jump sevenfold to $5,500 a square
meter within about five years. That’s in line with what similar
high-end apartment buildings are now selling for, according to
 Ipera AS , another real estate developer based in the city. He’s
among investors seeking to profit from fixing up residences in
the dilapidated historic districts of central Istanbul as
Turkey’s affluence increases.  Since  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  became prime minister in 2003,
 gross domestic product  per capita has nearly doubled to $8,578,
even after an 18 percent drop from 2008 to 2009, according to
the State Statistics Institute. Some of that growth is new
wealth from the less-developed eastern part of the country known
as Anatolia.  Wealthy Anatolians  “Lots of people with accumulated wealth from Anatolia are
coming to Istanbul and looking for a place in the center,” said
 Murat Ignebekcili , a real estate analyst at EFG Istanbul
Securities. “We’ll be seeing some massive urban transformation
projects in that area.”  Balat, a UNESCO-protected district on Istanbul’s Golden
Horn waterway, was once one of the most prestigious areas of the
city. A century and a half ago, it was home to a merchant
community of Turks, Jews, Greeks and Armenians. By the 1990s,
its crowded streets had been largely left to poor migrants from
the east and Gypsies, also known as Roma.  Gultekin’s company,  Balat AS , plans to convert the
crumbling wooden structures into classrooms, offices, shops and
residences around the  arts school . It will need to spend about
$1,500 a square meter on the refurbishments. After renovation,
permitting and other costs are factored in, he expects to more
than double his money.  Entertainment District  Ipera is also looking for projects in Balat after buildings
in other gentrified areas got too expensive. In the past five
years, Ipera spent $6 million renovating a pair of properties
and a rundown warehouse in the area around the  Galata Tower  in
Beyoglu, Istanbul’s central entertainment district, said Emre
Baran, Ipera’s co-founder and CEO.  Baran bought the first building, the five-story Ipera10 on
Serdar-i Ekrem street, in 2005 for the equivalent of $800 a
square meter. He invested the same amount in improvements to the
1903 structure and then sold three refurbished duplex luxury
apartments for an average of $4,000 a square meter about three
years later. A commercial space in the same building sold last
April for $10,000 a square meter, he said. Fashion designers
have set up shop on Serdar-i Ekrem, helping to lift prices,
Baran said.  High-end apartments in Beyoglu now cost as much as $8,000 a
square meter if they have views of the Bosphorus Strait, Golden
Horn and landmarks including the Blue Mosque, Haghia Sophia and
 Topkapi Palace , he said. A search on the Turkish property
website http:// www.hurriyetemlak.com  shows luxury flats in the
area costing as much as $9,250 a square meter.  ‘Trendiest Areas’  “It went from being an inner-city slum area to one of
Istanbul’s trendiest areas,” Baran said of Galata in Beyoglu.  Luxury residential property prices in Istanbul more than
doubled from 2002 through 2008, reaching $7,300 a square meter,
according to data provided by Murat Ergin, managing director at
 Kuzey Bati , the local affiliate of London-based broker  Savills
Plc . They then fell 15 percent to $6,200 a square meter in 2009
before starting to rebound. Ergin expects they may return to
peak levels by early next year.  “The upscale market is moving back to the center,”
reversing a trend where higher-income residents moved to gated
communities in the suburbs or skyscrapers in the business
district, Ergin said. “These projects are performing much
better than the market average, at least three to four times.”  Saffet Cicekdag, managing partner of  PEGA Real Estate  in
Istanbul, said he expects prices to rise as much as 25 percent
in the next two to three years.  Olympic Swimmer  Gultekin, a 1995 graduate of Brown University in
Providence, Rhode Island, was captain of the Turkish national
swimming team at the 1992 Barcelona Olympics. He was also
previously managing director for Turkey at the  Goodman Group , an
Australia-based property management company.  He started  Balat AS  with a $20 million investment from his
partners, Sedat Yazici and his son Tolga Yazici, who owned
factories that produced  Colgate -Palmolive Co. products in
Turkey. The group already has lease or sales agreements in
place, helping it secure bank loans for the renovations, he
said.  “There’s lots of room for growth” in the Turkish real
estate market, said  Neslihan Karagoz , an analyst at Oyak
Securities in Istanbul. “We expect that young people will begin
buying homes as incomes increase.”  The amount of mortgage debt outstanding in Turkey equals
about 5 percent of the country’s GDP, Karagoz said. That
compares with the European Union average of 49.8 percent as of
2008, according to the most recent data compiled by the  European
Mortgage Federation .  Local Opposition  The gentrification of Istanbul hasn’t always been welcomed
by established residents. Hasan Acar, a 40-year-old machinery
repairman, is leading a  group  in Balat that opposes a type of
development that has occurred in Istanbul neighborhoods, where
the government auctions off the right to renovate entire areas
at a time. Acar said people in those types of projects are being
forced out of their homes without adequate compensation.  Gultekin said his company hasn’t experienced any
neighborhood tensions, partly because he’s negotiating deals
with each property owner individually. He declined to provide
details of the agreements.  “We compensate them and they can move somewhere nicer
while we renovate the old place,” Gultekin said, stepping over
a puddle in Balat, where art school students pass veiled women
on the street. “If people are pushed out, there are going to be
problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 