-- Italian Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Rose in October on Jobs Outlook
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-10-26T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/italian-consumer-confidence-unexpectedly-rose-in-october-on-jobs-outlook.html
Italian consumer confidence 
unexpectedly increased this month to the highest since April as
households grew more optimistic about the outlook for economic
growth and jobs.  The  Isae Institute’s  consumer sentiment index climbed to
107.7 from 107.2 in September, the Rome-based research center
said today in a statement. Economists forecast a reading of
106.5, the  median of 16 estimates  in a Bloomberg survey showed.  Households’ “assessment of the general economic situation
improved,” Isae said. “There were modest gains in the outlook
for growth and employment.”  A sub-index measuring household expectations on jobs held
at the lowest since Dec. 2009, a sign that a growing number of
consumers see employment improving in coming months, Isae said.  Italy’s  unemployment rate  declined to 8.2 percent in
August, the lowest in a year, as exports helped buoy the
 economic recovery . To revive domestic demand the government
freed up the remaining 110 million euros ($153 million) in its
consumer-incentive program aimed at boosting spending on
electric vehicles and home appliances, among other products, the
Industry Ministry said on Oct. 21.  Still, retails sales may remain weak in coming months as
companies including  Telecom Italia SpA  and  UniCredit SpA 
approved plans to reduce hours, pay and staff.  Optimism in Italy was mirrored in Europe’s two biggest
economies. German  consumer sentiment  next month will remain at
the highest level in two and a half years after the economic
outlook improved and unemployment declined, the Nuremberg-based
market research company GfK AG said in a separate report earlier
today. A gauge of French household sentiment rose this month to
the highest since March, national statistics office Insee said
today in a statement from Paris.  The Isae survey was conducted between Oct. 1 and Oct. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  