-- James Bond’s DB5 Sells for 2.9 Million Pounds
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-10-27T20:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/james-bond-s-db5-estimated-at-10-million-to-star-in-london-car-auction.html
An Aston Martin driven by  Sean Connery  in the James Bond movie “Goldfinger” sold for 2.9
million pounds ($4.6 million) at a London auction today.  The 1964 silver DB5, also used in ‘Thunderball,” is the
most famous of 007’s vehicles and has twin machine guns,
revolving number plates, a bullet-proof shield and an ejector
seat. Its sale price included 12 percent auction fees. The price
was below the car’s presale minimum estimate of 3.5 million
pounds at hammer price. Its top estimate was $10 million. The
buyer was identified by dealers as an Ohio-based collector,
Harry Yeaggy.  Exceptional sports cars from the most desirable marques are
making record prices, encouraging wealthy individuals to buy or
sell physical objects while they assess the performance of
financial markets, said dealers.  “There are quite a few valuable pieces coming up for sale
now,”  Dietrich Hatlapa , founder and managing director of
Historic Automobile Group International (HAGI), a London-based
independent research company, said in an interview.  “Either owners think this is a good time to sell, or they
think this is an alternative asset class that has served its
purpose. They could be returning to conventional investments now
the stock market is running well,” said Hatlapa, a former
equities trader at ING Groep NV.  Classic Index  The  HAGI index  of exceptional classic-car prices rose 5.61
percent in September, said www.historicautogroup.com. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased 8.76 percent during the
same period.  Philadelphia-based radio broadcaster  Jerry Lee  entered the
James Bond coupe into the “Automobiles of London” event, being
held by Canada-based specialist auction house  RM Auctions  in
association with Sotheby’s. The first bid was made in the room
before Yeaggy’s winning offer. The winner was hugged by Lee, who
was also present at the sale.  Lee bought the car from the Aston Martin factory for
$12,000 in 1969 after it had been used for a tour to promote the
Bond movies.  In “Goldfinger,” gadget-master “Q” tells a disbelieving
Bond to pay attention before introducing the car’s “rather
interesting modifications” that also include electronic
tracking and an oil slick sprayer. These devices, operated by
switches in the center armrest, later allow him to thwart his
enemies.  Running Condition  The DB5 has recently been returned to running condition
after years of static display. The car with the U.K.
registration number “FMP 7B” was one of two original silver
DB5s driven by Connery in the movies, RM said.  Proceeds from the Aston’s sale will benefit the  Jerry Lee
Foundation , a charity dedicated to solving social problems
associated with poverty, particularly through crime prevention.  Also in the sale was a 2010  Pagani  Zonda R sports car, with
a top speed of 233 mph. One of only 15 scheduled to be built, it
had an estimate of 1.3 million pounds to 1.4 million pounds.  The 107-lot sale included six cars that were expected to
fetch as much as 1 million pounds. RM’s equivalent event last
year had no cars valued at this price.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 