-- James Earl Jones, Vanessa Redgrave Drive Great ‘Daisy’: Review
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-26T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/james-earl-jones-vanessa-redgrave-drive-great-daisy-review.html
With three great actors --  Vanessa Redgrave ,  James Earl Jones  and  Boyd Gaines  -- at their apogee,
the enchanting revival of “Driving Miss Daisy” is the best
theater can be.  Most so-called feel-good plays are sentimental claptrap
that television can manage better. “Driving Miss Daisy,”
however, is art. Alfred Uhry’s play makes us feel good because
it is absolutely honest, truthfully aware of the rough and the
smooth of life, beautifully (not just prettily) written about
real people learning as they live, caught on the wing by an
author who has something very human to say.  It is the story of a crusty old Jewish widow in Atlanta,
who, no longer a safe driver, has a canny elderly black
chauffeur thrust upon her by her solicitous son over her
vehement protests.  Daisy Werthan is a tough old bird, but son Boolie is no
piker, and neither is the chauffeur, Hoke Coleburn.  Hoke has been through much. Besides being a fine driver, he
is also a shrewd psychologist armed with a pawky sense of humor.
Much as Miss Daisy tries to make things impossible for him, he
summons the quiet riposte. It is a devilishly droll battle of
wills, hers using every form of aggression, his turning not-
quite-passive resistance into a thing of often comic beauty.  Superb Acting  And so it evolves through the years, with Boolie acting as
umpire, peacemaker and, always, the voice of exasperated but
enduring reason. Georgia’s 50s and 60s go by, their political
turbulence providing underscoring for the principals’ duet. The
sweet, hard-earned victory for both Daisy and Hoke ends in
something like a lovely sunset, with no garish colors or
amplified birdsong.  The acting is simply superb. That is if the vast talents of
the cast can be called simple. They are tried and true
performers who bring ultimate artistry well beyond mere craft.  From Redgrave, it is a kind of sublime mugging and
gloriously projected, perfectly Southern speech, going from
chilly hauteur through sassy incandescence to bone-deep
humanity.  From Jones, it is the most cannily deployed sense of volume
and temperature control, of magisterially timed pauses, of
irresistible laughter and unshakable dignity.  Gaines shows inexhaustible charm as the son, his very rants
immensely graceful.  David Esbjornson has directed with a deep commitment to the
material and with the rare gift of making cunning calibration
feel spontaneous. Now add John Lee Beatty’s uncluttered,
eloquent scenery, Jane Greenwood’s pertinent costuming, Peter
Kaczorowski’s precise lighting, and the discreetly evocative
projections of Wendall K. Harrington. All is supported by the
gifted Mark Bennett’s unobtrusive but smartly enlivening score.  At the John Golden Theatre, 252 W. 45th St. Information:
+1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com 
Rating: ****  ‘Wings’  Arthur Kopit’s “Wings” concerns Emily Stilson, a former
flying acrobat -- a “wing walker” -- who, after a stroke, is
hospitalized with aphasia. Jan Maxwell assumes the role created
by Constance Cummings in 1978.  To be so struck down would seem particularly painful to a
daredevil as close to the avian as a human can get short of
metamorphosing into a bird. And it is indeed pitiful when a
woman is revealed seated downstage center on an empty stage,
nonambulatory and mute, even if still able to read effortfully
from a book presently falling from her hands. An unseen clock
reminds us with its amplified ticktocking of time passing and
life bypassing Stilson.  In its 70 brief minutes, the play manages to encapsulate
two years, although John Doyle’s direction does not make this
clear. Nor is Maxwell, without aging makeup, the “woman well
into her seventies” called for by the script.  If age does not so much matter here, Doyle’s casting and
staging unfortunately do. Maxwell is a wonderful actress, but
vulnerability, essential to Kopit’s portrait, is not her strong
suit. In the end, neither cast nor production erased my fond
memory of the original.  At Second Stage Theatre, 305 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-
212-246-4422;  http://www.2st.com 
Rating: **  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 