-- Japan's 10-Year Bond Yields Touch Two-Week High Before Central Bank Meets
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-10-26T06:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/japan-s-10-year-bond-yields-are-at-2-week-high-before-central-bank-meeting.html
Japan’s 10-year bond yields reached
a two-week high on speculation the Bank of Japan will signal
this week it will refrain from taking extra measures to keep
borrowing costs low.  Five-year yields touched the highest level in more than a
month as all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said the
bank won’t ease policy further at its Oct. 28 meeting. The
Ministry of Finance will sell 2.6 trillion yen ($32 billion) of
two-year notes tomorrow.  “Moves in bonds continue to be limited ahead of the BOJ
policy meeting and its report on the economy and prices,” said
 RuiXue Xu , a strategist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd.  The yield on the 0.8 percent bond due September 2020 rose
half a basis point to 0.9 percent at 3:07 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price fell 0.045 yen to 99.091 yen. Ten-year yields earlier
climbed to 0.905 percent, the highest since Oct. 8. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Five-year yields were unchanged at 0.29 percent after
reaching 0.295 percent, the most since Sept. 17. Ten-year bond
futures for December delivery were unchanged at 143.42 as of the
afternoon close at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The central bank unexpectedly cut rates to near zero on Oct.
5 and decided to create a 5 trillion-yen fund to purchase assets
including corporate bonds, exchange-traded funds and real-estate
investment trusts.  Two-Year Auction  The prior two-year sale in September drew bids worth 5.75
times the amount on offer, compared with a so-called bid-to-
cover ratio of 4.75 at the August sale.  “Short-, mid-term notes will struggle to rise before the
two-year auction,”  Akihiko Inoue , chief market analyst in Tokyo
at Mizuho Investors Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-
largest bank, wrote in a research note today.  Primary dealers, which are required to bid at government
debt sales, often reduce holdings of bonds in case prices
decline before they can pass on the new securities to investors.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, said the BOJ may exit its stimulus programs
too early, allowing deflation to consolidate and boosting demand
for bonds.  Pimco Comments  “The BOJ made it very clear that the bank would continue
to retain discretion regarding the timing of an exit from its
near-zero interest rate policy, and indicated its decision would
be based on its own inflation forecast and asset price
developments,”  Tomoya Masanao , head of portfolio management in
Japan for Pimco, said on the company’s website. “Therefore, we
still see a risk that the BOJ would prematurely exit on a rise
of asset prices while deflation would not be ended.”  Japan’s  consumer prices  excluding fresh food slid 1 percent
from a year earlier in September, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before the statistics bureau reports the data on Oct. 29.
Deflation enhances the value of the fixed payments on debt.  Masanao recommended Japan bonds maturing in seven to 10
years over lower-yielding short-term debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 