-- Japan Investors Duped Into Buying Iraqi Dinar as U.S. Withdraws
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2010-10-26T02:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/japanese-investors-duped-into-buying-iraqi-dinar-as-u-s-troops-withdraw.html
Japanese consumers are being warned
about an investment scam promoting the purchase of the Iraqi
dinar on predictions the currency will surge in value as U.S.
combat troops withdraw from the country.  A man in western Japan spent 2 million yen ($25,000) to buy
500,000 Iraqi dinar ($428) after a caller recommended buying the
currency because it was expected to gain as much as 30-fold, the
 National Consumer Affairs Center  said on its  website . The man,
whose attempts to get a refund were unsuccessful, was among more
than 200 people who bought the currency, the posting said.  “In most cases, the exchange rate is extremely bad,”
Ryota Kato, a spokesman for the center, said yesterday by
telephone. “And you wouldn’t be able to exchange the dinar back
into yen because currently no Japanese bank will accept it.”  The Central Bank of Iraq exchanges 1,170 dinar for 1 U.S.
dollar, according to its  website , a rate that has been in place
since early 2009. An Iraq government spokesman said in April the
country has no plans to stop linking its currency to the dollar.  Kato said the center received 368 inquires about Iraqi
dinar in the nine months ended September, compared with four for
all of last year. Among the 202 people who said they purchased
the currency, the average investment was 3.5 million yen.  “One person spent 20 million yen buying dinar,” said Kato,
adding that the elderly have been targeted. Consumers are also
advised to take precautions if asked to buy the Sudanese pound,
he said.  “Our organization can’t judge whether these transactions
are fraudulent, but you should be very careful when you deal
with currencies that have low liquidity,” Kato said. “We’re
still getting many inquiries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masatsugu Horie  in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net  