-- Jordan Will Invite Bids for First Phase of Red Sea Desalination Project
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-10-26T15:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/jordan-will-invite-bids-for-first-phase-of-red-sea-desalination-project.html
Jordan will invite companies next
week to register for bidding on a contract to build the  Red Sea
Project  desalination plant, said Minister of State for Mega
Projects  Imad Fakhoury .  “We will next week be issuing the request for
qualification” for the first part of the five-phase project,
which will cost between $4.5 billion and $5 billion, Fakhoury
said in a telephone interview today from the World Economic
Forum on the Middle East in Marrakesh, Morocco. He said 29
international companies have expressed interest.  The project, which will eventually cost $10 billion, will
address Jordan’s water shortage by extracting about 400 million
cubic meters (106 billion gallons) of water a year from the Red
Sea, producing about 200 million cubic meters of fresh water
after desalination. Excess sea water and desalination brine will
be discharged into the Dead Sea, whose level has dropped by
about 1 meter (3.3 feet) a year over the past decade.  The winning bidders will construct the facilities and
manage them for a specified time before returning ownership to
the government, Fakhoury said. The project is scheduled to take
25 to 30 years to complete.  Jordan is the world’s fourth-poorest country in terms of
water, with an annual deficit of 500 million cubic meters,
Fakhoury said.  “We are targeting over the next 3 years from our capital
expenditure budget about $3.5 billion for water, transportation
and energy projects,” Fakhoury said. “By 2030, you are looking
at about $30 billion of infrastructure projects that will take
place through public-private partnership initiatives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 