-- Juniper Aiming for Safer Smartphones, Mobile Users With Business Software
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-10-26T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/juniper-aims-for-safer-smartphones-with-new-business-software.html
Juniper Networks Inc. , the second-
largest maker of computer-networking equipment, deepened a push
into mobile products by unveiling smartphone security software
for corporate customers.  The package of programs is designed to secure e-mail and
other information as employees transfer it between corporate
networks and devices including Apple Inc.’s iPhone, Research In
Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry and handsets that run Google Inc.’s
Android operating system, Juniper said today in a statement. The
software is also aimed at warding off malware and viruses.  Juniper, based in Sunnyvale, California, aims to benefit as
more people use smartphones for work and information technology
staff look for ways to protect sensitive data. Sales of mobile
security-software may grow more than sixfold to $1.35 billion
through 2013 from last year, according to Infonetics Research.  “More and more consumers are bringing their mobile devices
into work,” Juniper Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Johnson  said
in an interview. “With this wide range of operating systems, the
IT organization in a large company has a big challenge: How can
they provide a single method to secure those devices? That’s
the niche we’re filling.”  Johnson is trying to revive growth after  sales fell  last
year for the first time since 2002. Juniper lags behind Cisco
Systems Inc. in sales of switches and routers that direct Web
traffic.  Juniper rose 8 cents to $32.02 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading and has gained 20 percent this year.  Smartphones At Work  About 40 percent of workers use their personal phones for
business purposes such as e-mail and accessing work files,
according to a study of 4,500 users in 13 countries by  KRC
Research . More than half who use their devices for business
reasons access company networks without their employer’s
knowledge, according to the study, commissioned by Juniper.  Companies have traditionally avoided mobile security risks
by limiting access to networks to certain devices, primarily
 BlackBerry  phones.  That’s changing as more smartphones enter the market.  “Loads and loads” of employees at  International Business
Machines Corp.  have been asking to work from their personal
phones, said David Merrill, a security strategist at IBM.  IBM has been testing Juniper’s mobile security products and
is planning to expand mobile access to hundreds of thousands of
its employees from the tens of thousands it supports today,
Merrill said. Though the company’s focus has been primarily on
PC-based security threats, mobile security is increasingly
attracting attention, he said.  “It hasn’t become the next big threat, but when it does,
we want to be ready,” Merrill said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  