-- Karo Bio Stock Declines on Plan to Sell Shares to Finance Eprotirome Trial
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2010-10-26T11:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/karo-bio-to-sell-300-million-kronor-in-shares-to-fund-drug-trial.html
Karo Bio AB, the Swedish drugmaker
that failed to find a development partner for its cholesterol
pill, will sell 300 million kronor ($45 million) of shares to
help fund a late-stage test of the experimental medicine.  The price will be announced around Nov. 22, the Huddinge,
Sweden-based company said today in a statement. Karo also has
the option to sell an additional 230 million kronor of stock at
a 5 percent discount to the market price to Azimuth Opportunity
Ltd. Karo fell the most in six weeks.  Karo Bio, which has reported  losses every year  since
listing in 1998, needed a share sale or a partner to fund a
clinical test even after paring back plans for eprotirome, Chief
Executive Officer  Fredrik Lindgren  said in August. The drugmaker
narrowed research for the medicine to one genetic disease, after
failing to find a partner to develop it for patients with
conventional high cholesterol levels.  The clinical trial, the third and generally last phase
needed before seeking regulatory approval, will cost about 400
million kronor, Karo said. The pill may generate $100 million in
European sales under current trends for diagnosing the genetic
disorder and “several hundred million dollars” if rates
increase, Karo said today. It previously had forecast sales of
as much as $1 billion.  Karo Bio fell as much as 9 percent in Stockholm trading,
the biggest intraday decline since Sept. 8. The shares fell 0.47
kronor, or 8.6 percent, to 4.98 kronor, at 1 p.m. The stock has
declined 18 percent in the past year.  Azimuth Agreement  Karo Bio said it entered into an agreement giving it the
right to sell shares to Azimuth, a British Virgin Islands-based
investor advised by Acqua Capital Management Inc. The 36-month
agreement, which Karo would pay fees to access, limits Azimuth’s
potential holding to 9.99 percent.  Karo Bio said in July it will test eprotirome for use only
in patients with the genetic disorder heterozygous familial
hypercholesterolemia. It repeated today that it expects to begin
the late-stage trial in as many as 1,150 patients in Europe and
to seek marketing approval in late 2013 or 2014.  Azimuth, Storford Ltd. (Volati), Ponderus Invest AB and
Carnegie Investment Bank AB have agreed to underwrite the new
shares, providing conditions are met, Karo Bio said. Lindgren
and Chairman  Bo Haakansson  will buy shares proportional to their
current holdings, the drugmaker said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  