-- New Zealand Will Lose If `Hobbit' Bidding War Erupts, Key Says
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-10-27T02:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/key-won-t-write-out-checks-to-keep-warner-s-hobbit-film-in-new-zealand.html
New Zealand won’t give Warner Bros.
Productions Ltd unlimited incentives to attract the $500 million
Hobbit production to the country, Prime Minister  John Key  said
as government and studio talks entered a second day.  “If it comes down to a bidding war then New Zealand is
going to lose,” Key told reporters in Wellington today in
reference to negotiations with the studio. “I’m just not going
to write out checks that New Zealand can’t afford to cash.”  Warner executives from the U.S. met Key in Wellington
yesterday to ask for more cash subsidies and clarification to
employment laws before agreeing to film “The Hobbit” in New
Zealand. An Australian union’s proposal to boycott the prequel
to “The Lord of the Rings” threatens the livelihoods of
thousands of New Zealanders,  Peter Jackson , the award-winning
director of the new film said today.  New Zealand Actors’ Equity , backed by Australia-based
Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance, recommended that actors
boycott “The Hobbit” until they received union contracts.
Warner blamed the industrial action, which was withdrawn last
week, on its decision to review the location for the films.  The original Rings trilogy helped spur New Zealand’s
tourism industry, adding about NZ$350 million ($262 million) to
the economy in the three years to March 2002, and helped
establish the country as a location for Hollywood films. The
film industry was worth NZ$2.8 billion in 2009, according to a
 Statistics New Zealand  report.  Film Inspires Tourism  “If New Zealand bases the entire industry simply on some
sort of financial incentive, then it’s not going to be a long-
lasting industry,” said Key.  Chances of “The Hobbit” films being made in New Zealand
stand at “50-50,” Key told reporters in Wellington yesterday.
The prime minister expects a decision on the location to be made
by the end of the week.  The Rings trilogy inspired New Zealand businesses to
provide tours to locations where Frodo battled Orcs in a
recreation of J.R.R. Tolkien’s Middle Earth. Tours are still
operating in more than 30 locations in New Zealand, according to
 www.tourism.net.nz , where fans pay to see Jackson’s vision of
the Road to Mordor, Misty Mountains and Ford of Bruinen.  Tourism overtook the dairy industry as New Zealand’s
biggest export industry in the year ending March 31,  Statistics
New Zealand  said in a report today. Spending by foreign tourists
rose 1.6 percent to NZ$9.54 billion ($7.1 billion) in the
period.  Key has taken control of New Zealand’s tourism industry to
try and boost the country’s $125 billion economy. The former
global head of foreign exchange at  Merrill Lynch & Co Inc.  was
nicknamed “the smiling assassin” after he fired some 50
members of his team at the investment bank.  Australia’s MEAA union could “jeopardize a huge financial
investment to this country,” Jackson said in a today’s
statement. “Frankly, the fact that all of this was driven by an
Australian union official only made me angrier.”  The feud is the latest hitch in the filming of “The
Hobbit,” the tale of Bilbo Baggins’ quest to win treasure
guarded by Smaug the dragon. Guillermo del Toro quit as director
in May and a Wellington studio where parts of the film were to
be shot caught fire earlier this month.  The “Lord of the Rings” trilogy generated $2.9 billion in
worldwide box-office receipts and another $3 billion from DVDs,
merchandise and other sources.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Chris Bourke  at   cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  