-- National Bank of Abu Dhabi Third-Quarter Profit Rises 1%; Below Estimates
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-10-26T11:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/national-bank-of-abu-dhabi-third-quarter-profit-rises-1-below-estimates.html
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the
United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest bank, reported a 1 percent
rise in third-quarter profit, missing analysts’ estimates.  Net income increased to 919.8 million dirhams ($250.5
million) from 914 million dirhams a year earlier, the bank said
in an e-mailed statement today. The median estimate of eight
analysts was for a profit of  977 million dirhams , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The bank continues to perform well in demanding market
circumstances,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael Tomalin  said in
the statement. “We have continued to build up our provisions and
our new ventures in Hong Kong, Switzerland, and Jordan are now
all operating in profit.”  U.A.E. banks are recovering from the global credit crisis,
which weakened lending and investment banking, while provisions
for bad loans are rising amid the economic slowdown. Emirates
NBD PJSC, the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets, reported a 60
percent drop in third-quarter profit yesterday, missing
analysts’ estimates, as the lender set aside more money to cover
bad loans, including those to state-owned Dubai World.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi said in April it has no exposure
to Dubai World, which is seeking to alter terms of $24.9 billion
of debt. The bank is owed money by Nakheel PJSC and Limitless
LLC, units of Dubai World.  Bond Sale  National Bank of Abu Dhabi said on Oct. 17 that its board
will consider selling bonds under its Australian and New Zealand
dollar medium-term note program after selling 500 million
ringgit of Islamic bonds in June in its first offering of debt
in Malaysia. The bank completed investor meetings in Australia
and New Zealand,  Mahmood Al Aradi , general manager financial
markets, said in London on Oct. 20.  The lender booked a net impairment charge of 320 million
dirhams in the third quarter, taking the non-performing loan
ratio to 1.8 percent, or 2.56 billion dirhams, of its total
loans, according to the statement. Total loans grew 5.1 percent
at the end of September from December to 139 billion dirhams,
while deposits fell 0.6 percent to 120.4 billion dirhams.  The bank’s  shares  have advanced 6.5 percent this year
compared with a 3 percent gain in the benchmark  ADX General
Index . The shares didn’t trade today and closed 1.3 percent
higher at 12 dirhams in Abu Dhabi trading yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net . 