-- Natural Gas Rises First Day in Four in New York on Cooler November Weather
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2010-10-26T15:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/natural-gas-rises-first-day-in-four-in-new-york-on-cooler-november-weather.html
Natural gas futures rose for the
first time in four days as forecasts showed cooler-than-normal
weather in early November, boosting demand for the heating fuel.  Temperatures will be below normal in the U.S. Northeast
next week and along the Atlantic Coast from Nov. 5 to Nov. 9,
according to Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.
Gas has tumbled 39 percent this year as rising production
increased an inventory surplus.  “Prices are down to a level where it’s pretty cheap to buy
gas,” said  Carl Neill , an energy consultant at Risk Management
Inc. in Atlanta. “You are starting to get colder weather
predictions and it’s going to firm the market.”  Natural gas for November delivery rose 6.8 cents, or 2.1
percent, to $3.385 per million British thermal units at 10:56
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Yesterday gas fell to
the lowest price in more than 13 months.  The November contract expires tomorrow. The more active
December futures gained 10.7 cents to $3.773 per million Btu.  “People are going to be looking for bottoms at these
levels,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory
company Cameron Hanover Inc. in New Canaan, Connecticut. “We
have some weather pronouncements that are a little bit more
bullish.”  New York will have a low of 38 degrees Fahrenheit (3
Celsius) on Nov. 7, 6 degrees below average, according to
 AccuWeather Inc . of State College, Pennsylvania. Boston will
have a high of 30 degrees.  La Nina  About 52 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Department.  The weather phenomenon known as La Niña will be “the
driving factor” this winter, Commodity Weather said in a report
yesterday.  “Typical La Niña winters favor a warm East and South along
with a cold North and West,” the forecaster said.  The Energy Department may say on Oct. 28 that U.S. gas
stockpiles increased by 73 billion cubic feet in the week ended
Oct. 22, according to the median of six analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year average gain for the week
is 45 billion.  Gas stockpiles rose 93 billion cubic feet in the week ended
Oct. 15 to 3.683 trillion, the department reported last week, a
record increase for the month of October.  A surplus to the five-year average widened to 8.4 percent
from 7.4 percent in the previous week. A deficit to year-earlier
supplies narrowed to 1.3 percent from 3.2 percent.  “This week’s storage report could well see the inventory
deficit eliminated, sending storage on track to set a new record
before the winter begins,”  Biliana Pehlivanova , an analyst at
Barclays Capital in New York, said in a report.  Stockpiles climbed to a record 3.837 trillion cubic feet
last November before cooler weather spurred demand for the
heating fuel, reducing supplies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  