-- New Jersey Plans to Take Bids for Private Firm to Collect Turnpike Tolls
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-26T18:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/new-jersey-plans-to-take-bids-for-private-firm-to-collect-turnpike-tolls.html
New Jersey, the most densely
populated U.S. state, plans to take bids in December for private
operators to take over highway-toll collection, state
Transportation Commissioner  James Simpson  said.  The proposal would replace about 700 unionized toll
collectors on the 148-mile (238-kilometer) New Jersey Turnpike.
Simpson, who also is chairman of the state Turnpike Authority,
said soliciting bids will help the state cut costs by winning
reductions in union work rules for collectors.  “With the toll collection and ancillary services, it’s
become a monopoly,” Simpson told reporters after the regular
monthly meeting of the authority in Woodbridge today. “We just
want the means to get real with work rules.”  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  created a task force in
March to study whether the state would save money if public jobs
or agencies were operated by private firms. A  report  released by
the panel in July said the state may save as much as $43 million
a year by allowing a private company to collect tolls.  Simpson said other tasks such as guard-rail repair and
highway maintenance are being considered for privatization.  Comptroller’s Report  Fran Ehret, president of the International Federation of
Professional & Technical Engineers Local 194, opposed the plan.
The union represents about 1,500 Turnpike workers including the
toll collectors.  “We’re hoping they don’t do that,” she said in an
interview after the meeting. “We have middle-class families’
lives at stake.”  The toll-road operator, which collects $1.1 billion in
annual revenue and plans to issue $2.5 billion in bonds by year-
end, was criticized in an audit released Oct. 19 by state
Comptroller  Matthew Boxer  for what he said was $43 million of
waste, including inappropriate bonuses for working on birthdays.  The authority gave employees $430,000 of free rides on the
Turnpike and Garden State Parkway, overpaid a law firm $224,000
last year, and spent $12,000 to sponsor an employee bowling
league and $3.8 million in payouts for unused sick days,
according to Boxer’s report.  The board of the agency voted today to eliminate free
employee commutes, automatic salary increases for workers on the
job more than 10 years, and the ability of non-unionized
employees to cash in unused sick and vacation pay annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  