-- New Jersey's Christie Said to Hold Fast on Canceling Planned Hudson Tunnel
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/new-jersey-s-christie-said-to-hold-fast-on-cancellation-of-hudson-tunnel.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
intends to rule out building a commuter-rail tunnel under the
Hudson River today, said a Republican official with knowledge of
discussions on the subject.  The first-term Republican governor canceled the tunnel Oct.
7, citing estimates for costs to rise as much as $5 billion
above the planned $8.7 billion price. A day later, at U.S.
Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood ’s request, he agreed to a
two-week review of options that might save the project.  Christie, 48, has decided against it because he wasn’t
satisfied that the federal options would insulate the state from
higher costs, said the official, who didn’t want to be named
because he wasn’t authorized to speak on it before Christie’s
announcement. The U.S. and the Port Authority of New York & New
Jersey each were to pay $3 billion for the work. Christie said
the plan put the burden of cost overruns entirely on his state.  “New Jersey has gone for too long and for too many decades
ordering things that it can’t pay for,” Christie said in
Trenton on Oct. 7. “I simply cannot put the taxpayers of New
Jersey on a never-ending hook.”  A Christie spokesman, Kevin Roberts, declined to comment on
today’s announcement plans.  The 8.8-mile (14-kilometer)  Access to the Region’s Core 
tunnel was designed to double New Jersey Transit’s rail capacity
into New York City. The tube was to end in an underground
terminal to be built at 34th Street near Pennsylvania Station.  Cut Commute Times  If completed, the tunnel would cut travel times by as much
as 30 minutes for New Jersey commuters, the Regional Plan
Association, a New York-based research and advocacy group, said
in an Oct. 14 report. It would double the number of people in
the state within a 50-minute trip to Manhattan, the group said.  The federal government had offered financing options
designed to allay Christie’s concerns about overruns, said U.S.
Senator  Frank Lautenberg , in an e-mailed statement. Lautenberg,
a Democrat and the state’s senior senator, said the U.S. offer
would “limit or even eliminate New Jersey’s responsibility”
for increased costs.  “It was clear from the beginning that Governor Christie
planned to kill this project no matter what,” Lautenberg said.  Olivia Alair , a spokeswoman with the federal Transportation
Department, declined to comment on Lautenberg’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  