-- New Zealand May Keep Rate Unchanged Until 2011 on Slower Growth
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 2010-10-26T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/new-zealand-may-keep-benchmark-rate-unchanged-until-2011-on-slower-growth.html
New Zealand’s central bank will
probably keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged until next
year as the nation’s worst earthquake in eight decades hobbles
growth and slower consumer spending eases inflation concerns.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard  will
leave the official  cash  rate at 3 percent at 9 a.m. tomorrow in
Wellington, according to all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. He will do the same at the Dec. 9 meeting, the survey
showed.  The likely pause may reflect growing concern among policy
makers about the Sept. 4 temblor’s drag on growth, with Bollard
saying last week he’s been “surprised” at consumers’ caution.
A 4 percent rise in the New Zealand dollar against its U.S.
counterpart since the quake may further inhibit gross domestic
product, a third of which depends on exports.  “Third-quarter growth is likely to have fallen
significantly short of the Reserve Bank’s most recent forecast,
with consumer spending looking flat at best,” said  Darren Gibbs ,
chief New Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Auckland.  There is a zero chance of a rate rise this month, according
to a Credit Suisse index based on swaps trading. The rate will
rise to just 3.63 percent in a year, another Credit Suisse  index 
shows.  ‘Brittle’  Bollard has joined central banks from Australia to South
Korea that have paused rate increases this year amid signs of a
slower global recovery and rising exchange rates. On Oct. 12 he
said the economic recovery “is proving brittle” after last
month cutting his 2011 economic growth forecast to 2.5 percent
from 3.8 percent previously.  The RBNZ may justify no rate change “by reference to the
fragility of the local economy and the uncertainty surrounding
the near-term outlook for New Zealand and the world economy more
broadly,” said  Roland Randall , an economist at TD Securities
Inc. in Singapore.  New Zealand  retail spending  unexpectedly stagnated in
August and core sales fell for a second month, according to
government figures released Oct. 14.  Bollard last week told a parliamentary panel that forecasts
for no rate changes until 2011 “wouldn’t seem an unreasonable
expectation” given the outlook for domestic demand. Last month,
he said third-quarter growth would be slower than previously
estimated because of effects of the magnitude 7  earthquake  that
struck the South Island city of Christchurch.  Lower Earnings  Kathmandu Holdings Ltd. , a New Zealand-based retailer of
outdoor equipment, said full-year earnings fell as the company
cut prices to bolster sales, reducing profit margins.  “New Zealand was below our expected sales targets,” and
consumer spending was reduced in the second half that ended July,
the Christchurch-based company said on Sept. 24.  House sales  fell 33 percent in September from a year
earlier and an index of house prices was near a 12-month low,
the Real Estate Institute said in an Oct. 14 report.  The central bank on Sept. 16 estimated third-quarter  growth 
would be curbed by 0.3 percentage point as a result of the
Christchurch earthquake. Growth may be stronger than previously
expected late this year and in 2011 because of rebuilding, it
said, without providing more details.  Last week, the government said about 6,800 properties in
the nation’s second-largest city and surrounding districts were
affected by land damage, while as many as 50,000 homes and
buildings will need moderate to serious repairs.  Less Optimism  Fewer companies were optimistic about sales and firms
scaled back their hiring and investment intentions, ANZ National
Bank Ltd. said in its  survey  published Sept. 30.  Consumer confidence fell to a 14-month low in October, ANZ
and Roy Morgan Research said in a poll result published Oct. 21,
citing reduced demand for major household items after an
increase in sales tax pushed up prices.  Consumer prices rose 1.5 percent in the 12 months ended
Sept. 30, the smallest increase in six years, according to a
report this month. Still,  inflation  is likely to peak at 4.8
percent by mid-2011 as the sales tax is included, the central
bank forecasts.  Bollard is required to keep inflation in a range of 1
percent to 3 percent, and the central bank forecasts prices
excluding the effects of the sales tax will peak at 2.1 percent
for the year ending June 2011.  The Reserve Bank of Australia on Oct. 5 kept its benchmark
at 4.5 percent for a fifth month amid signs of cooling domestic
demand.  The Bank of Korea left borrowing costs unchanged for a
third straight month on Oct. 14 as an appreciating won threatens
export growth. The Bank of Japan has pledged to keep its
benchmark interest rate at “virtually zero” until the end of
deflation is in sight and to expand its balance sheet in an
effort to shore up a slowing economic recovery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  