-- Nissan Exploring Alternative Sources of Rare Earths on China Restrictions
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2010-10-26T07:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/nissan-exploring-alternative-sources-of-rare-earths-update1-.html
Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s third
largest carmaker, is exploring alternative sources of rare earth
minerals as China restricts shipments.  While Nissan has sufficient stockpiles of rare earths, it
is “very concerned” about the supply situation, Chief
Operating Officer  Toshiyuki Shiga  told reporters in Yokohama
today. Nissan will also try to reduce the amount of rare earths
it uses in motors for hybrid cars and explore recycled materials,
he said.  Restrictions by China, which produces more than 90 percent
of the world’s rare earths, have drawn criticism from U.S.
lawmakers and officials in Japan and Germany. China reduced its
second-half export quota for the minerals by 72 percent in July,
the Ministry of Commerce said. It is now further restricting
exports, according to industry participants.  “Rare earths are indispensable for production of hybrid
cars and next-generation electric vehicles,”  Tadashi Usui , an
analyst at Moody’s K.K. in Tokyo, wrote in a report today. While
the supply shortage and rising prices are negative factors for
carmakers’ ratings, companies that supply raw materials and
parts to carmakers have about a year’s worth of rare earth
stockpiled, he said.  Prices have climbed sevenfold in the last six months for
cerium oxide, which is used for polishing semiconductors, and
other elements have more than doubled, according to Metal-Pages
Ltd. in London, which tracks rare-earth prices.  Nissan, based in Yokohama, fell 1 percent in Tokyo to 726
yen. The stock has fallen 10 percent in 2010.  Toyota Tsusho Corp. , a trading company affiliated with
 Toyota Motor Corp. , has formed a joint venture with Sojitz Corp.
and a Vietnamese state-run mining company to export rare earth
metals to Japan from 2012, spokesman Katsutoshi Yokoi said last
month. The company acquired Tokyo-based rare earth metal
importer Wako Bussan Co. in December 2008, which will import
materials from India from next year, Yokoi said.  Toyota’s Prius contains 13.5 kilograms (29.8 pounds) of
rare earth elements, which make up 2.9 percent of the cost of
the car, according to intelligence group Strategic Forecasting
Inc., based in Austin, Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ian Rowley at 
 irowley2@bloomberg.net  