-- Norges Bank May Extend Tightening Pause as Global Economic Risks Mount
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-10-26T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/norges-bank-may-extend-tightening-pause-as-global-economic-risks-increase.html
Norway’s central bank may say today
it will extend a pause in its tightening cycle, a day after
Sweden said an uncertain global outlook will keep interest rates
low as Nordic policy makers protect their export markets.  Oslo-based Norges Bank, which has shelved rate increases
since May, will leave the overnight deposit rate unchanged at 2
percent today, according to all 18 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. The bank will probably push back its previous plan to
resume increases at “the turn of the year,” according to
Nordea Bank AB, DnB NOR ASA and Svenska Handelsbanken.  “Somewhat weaker growth prospects and expectations of a
very long time before rises in Europe make it difficult for
Norges Bank to hike interest rates alone,” said  Katrine Boye , a
senior economist at Nordea in Oslo and a former Norges Bank
economist. Nordea expects rates to stay on hold until May. The
current forecast suggests a rise in December or January.  Concern that sluggish recoveries in the U.S. and parts of
Europe will sap export demand and slow domestic recoveries is
weighing on the Nordic region. Norges Bank’s next governor has
signaled the bank won’t “go it alone” in raising rates, while
Sweden’s Riksbank  yesterday  cut its interest rate path, citing
“weak” developments overseas.  ‘Pessimistic’  “We have a more pessimistic view of the international
economy than Norges Bank,” said  Kjersti Haugland , an economist
at DnB NOR ASA, Norway’s biggest lender. “When demand is
sluggish abroad then the development will be also weaker” in
Norwegian exports. DnB NOR believes the bank will eventually be
forced delay its next rate increase until June.  Handelsbanken expects the bank to signal the next rate rise
“in March 2011 at the earliest and most likely in May 2011,”
economist  Ida Wolden Bache  said.  In the European Union, the risk of slower growth is
increasing as governments press ahead with deficit cuts, the
International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 20. The European
Central Bank, which has kept its benchmark at 1 percent since
May 2009, on Oct. 7 said rates are “appropriate”. The U.S.
Federal Reserve on Sept. 21 reiterated plans to keep the
benchmark “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.” Its
main rate has been in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  Krone Role  “We don’t think the U.S. and the euro zone is going to
hike interest rates until the spring of 2012 so we don’t believe
there is much room for Norges Bank to hike rates in a speedy
pace because then the Norwegian krone is going to strengthen,”
Haugland said.  The krone has gained 2 percent against the euro so far this
year.  Norges Bank is likely to increase the role of the krone in
decision making when  Oeystein Olsen  takes over as central bank
from  Svein Gjedrem  on Jan. 1. Olsen, who was appointed by the
Finance Ministry last week, signaled Norway can’t afford to
raise rates as long as other central banks remain on hold.  “Norges Bank cannot go alone, for sure; international
developments including interest rate paths abroad will
potentially affect” policy “via the exchange rates,” he said
in an interview. Olsen said in an August interview that Norges
Bank should delay its next rate increases until “next summer”.  Moderate Inflation  A slower recovery abroad is also leading to moderate
inflation pressures, increasing Norges Bank’s scope to slow the
pace of interest rate rises.  Underlying inflation , which adjusts for energy and taxes,
has lagged behind the central bank’s 2.5 percent target since
August last year. The rate stood at 0.9 percent last month.  “The Norwegians realize that they have a lot of risk from
abroad,” said  Par Magnusson , chief Nordic economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in Stockholm, by phone. “They realize that
there is no inflationary upside risk right now and there is no
need for them to hike. That’s why they are sounding more
dovish,” A revision of the  bank’s rate path  today may weaken
the currency, he said.  Norges Bank’s three rate increases since October last year
pushed up the krone by 13 percent against the euro from a
September 2009 low through a May high. That gain hurt exporters,
including  Norsk Hydro ASA , Europe’s third biggest aluminum
maker.  Exports , which make up 42 percent of Norway’s output,
fell in the first two quarters of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
NOBRDEPA <INDEX> CN
1037Z NO <EQUITY> CN
EURNOK <CRNCY> CN 