-- North Carolina Dorm `Biggest Loser' in EPA's Energy-Reduction Competition
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-10-26T21:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/north-carolina-dorm-biggest-loser-in-epa-s-energy-reduction-competition.html
The University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill  cut energy use at a residence hall by 36 percent,
making it the winner of an Environmental Protection Agency
contest inspired by the television show  “The Biggest Loser.”   Morrison Residence Hall, which saved more than $250,000 and
cut its carbon dioxide emissions by 730 metric tons in one year,
took first place in the first National Building Competition to
reduce energy waste, the  EPA  said today in a statement. The 14
buildings in the competition together cut their energy bills by
$950,000 from Sept. 1, 2009, to Aug. 31, the EPA said.  Commercial buildings account for almost a fifth of U.S.
energy use and greenhouse-gas emissions at a cost of more than
$100 billion a year, according to the EPA. An average of 30
percent of energy used by commercial properties is wasted, the
agency said.  Participants in the competition included office buildings,
hotels, malls and grade schools. The contest, modeled on NBC’s
weight-loss reality show, was intended to demonstrate how energy
use can be cut over time, said Maura Beard, spokeswoman for the
EPA’s Energy Star commercial and industrial building program.  “It’s just like stepping on a scale,” she said in an
interview. “We talked about how important it is to measure
energy efficiency and make improvements over time, so it really
was just like going on a diet.”  A  Sears  department store in Glen Burnie, Maryland, came in
second place with a 32 percent decrease in energy use, and a
 J.C. Penney  location in Orange, California, ranked third with a
29 percent decline. Both stores switched to lower wattage light
bulbs and replaced worn or missing weather stripping to cut
energy use, the EPA said.  Energy Use Verified  The EPA required competition participants to record monthly
energy use through an online energy-measurement tool. Buildings
were evaluated on their reduction in energy use by percentage,
with adjustments made for changes in weather. Building operators
had to submit data for each fuel source from a utility or third
party to verify their usage, the EPA said.  Morrison Hall’s methods included improving the efficiency
of its heating and air conditioning system, optimizing rooftop
solar panels, adding LED lighting, and teaching dorm residents
how to cut energy use, Chris Martin, director of energy
management at the university, said in an interview.  “We had a four-pronged attack,” Martin said. “The
competition really galvanized our effort on the solar-heating
system and also brought some LED lighting to Morrison.”  The 10-story dormitory houses more than 800 students and is
home to the campus’s  Sustainability Living Learning Community ,
which encourages students to explore different methods of
environmental efficiency, according to the university’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  