-- NTPC Posts Third Straight Decline in Profit After Expenses Outpace Sales
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-26T14:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ntpc-reports-quarterly-profit-of-21-1-billion-rupees-beating-estimates.html
NTPC Ltd., India’s largest power
producer, posted a drop in profit for the third straight quarter
after expenditure outpaced growth in sales.  Net income  in the three months ended Sept. 30 fell 2
percent to 21.1 billion rupees ($475 million) from a year
earlier, the New Delhi-based company said in a statement to the
National Stock Exchange. The average estimate of 28 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was a profit of  20.6 billion rupees . Sales
grew 20 percent to 129.9 billion rupees.  The generator, which produces power from coal and gas, has
sought to accelerate construction of plants after failing to
meet its capacity-addition target last year because of equipment
delays. Fuel costs rose 30 percent to 86.1 billion rupees.  “Profit is down because of higher fuel costs,” said
Rupesh Sanke, a Mumbai-based analyst with Angel Broking Ltd. who
has an “accumulate” rating on the stock. “They can pass those
costs through but it doesn’t happen on a quarterly basis so it
has affected income this quarter. It will be recovered later.”  Expenditure, including a provision of 12.6 billion rupees,
increased 43 percent, according to the statement. The provision
was made based on an order by an Indian court, the company said
without elaborating. A.K. Singhal, director of finance, declined
to comment when contacted on his mobile phone. Calls to Chairman
Arup Roy Choudhury weren’t answered.  NTPC  shares  have dropped 13 percent this year compared with
a 16 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index . The
stock fell 1.1 percent to 205.25 rupees in Mumbai trading today.
The earnings were announced after the markets closed.  NTPC and its ventures currently have 32,194 megawatts of
installed electricity-generation capacity, according to the
company  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 