-- Obama `Daily Show' Appearance Designed to Boost Voter Support
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-10-26T15:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/obama-will-take-democrats-case-to-the-daily-show-before-stewart-rally.html
President  Barack Obama  will tape an
appearance for Comedy Central’s “Daily Show” program tomorrow,
three days before host  Jon Stewart  helps lead a rally in
Washington that Democrats say may boost their party’s election
chances.  While it will be Obama’s first visit to the Comedy Central
 show  since he was elected president, it’s not the first non-news
program he has participated in while in office. The program is
scheduled for broadcast at 11 p.m. New York time tomorrow.  He is going on the show six days before the midterm
congressional elections because it’s another way to generate
voter enthusiasm,  Robert Gibbs , Obama’s spokesman, said.  “It’s one that reaches an audience that isn’t watching
cable television every day, or the nightly newscasts, but
they’re probably going to participate in this election,” Gibbs
said. “It’s a great opportunity to reach those folks.”  Obama has sought to reach beyond news programs and
traditional political forums to get his message across. Last
week he taped an appearance for Discovery Channel’s
“MythBusters” show as part of an effort to promote science and
technology education. He also was interviewed on ABC’s daytime
talk show “The View” in July, and during the debate over his
health-care overhaul plan he went on CBS’s “Late Show with
 David Letterman .” He’s also appeared on NBC’s “The Tonight
Show with  Jay Leno .”  Both Sides  Republicans also have used non-traditional venues. Virginia
Representative  Eric Cantor , the second-ranking Republican in the
House, was on the “Daily Show” earlier this month.  “I’m sure we’ll pull in some funny lines,” Gibbs said of
the president’s “Daily Show” taping. “If you sign up to do
Comedy Central, you do it because you can exist in that
atmosphere. The truth is he’s good at the type of banter back
and forth.”  The president’s appearance is scheduled during the series’
week-long trip to Washington. The special programs are intended
to provide viewers with “Indecision 2010” coverage of the
midterm elections, Comedy Central said.  The Oct. 30 rally, hosted by Stewart and fellow Comedy
Central star  Stephen Colbert , is intended to be a counterpoint
to a rally organized by  Glenn Beck , a Fox News commentator
popular with Tea Party and other conservative activists, on Aug.
28. Stewart has said the event isn’t a political rally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  