-- Hobbit Talks Hinge on New Zealand Labor Laws, Cash, Key Says
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-26T06:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/hobbit-movie-hinges-on-warner-demands-for-cash-labor-assurances-key-says.html
Warner Bros. Productions Ltd. is
seeking cash subsidies from New Zealand’s government and clarity
on employment laws before agreeing to make the $500 million
movie “The Hobbit” there, said Prime Minister  John Key .  A meeting between the government and Warner executives in
Wellington today ended with no agreement on the location of the
two-film prequel to the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy, Key told
reporters at a media briefing. There was a “50-50” chance that
the films would be made in New Zealand and a decision was
expected by the end of this week, he said.  New Zealand’s government is fighting to keep the production
in the country after the Rings trilogy added about NZ$350
million ($264 million) to the economy in the three years to
March 2002, and boosted tourism as fans flocked to locations
used to recreate  J.R.R. Tolkien ’s Middle Earth.  “We can’t bridge the gap economically that’s on the table
from other countries,” said Key. “We have got an opportunity
potentially to put the pieces back together, but there are no
guarantees.” Key declined to comment on the sums of money
involved in the dispute.  Hundreds of people joined protests around New Zealand
yesterday after an actors’ union dispute prompted Warner to
consider other locations for the film. The studio reviewed the
location after a workers’ boycott was proposed by New Zealand
Actors’ Equity, backed by Australia-based Media, Entertainment
and Arts Alliance. The actions caused “substantial damage and
disruption,” the company said in an Oct. 22 statement.  “If we can’t give them clarity, they are out of here. No
question about that,” said Key.  New Zealand Dollar  Film studios may also be hampered by the strength of the
New Zealand dollar. The producers of the “Lord of the Rings”
were worried that the currency would surpass 50 U.S. cents while
filming the trilogy,  Trevor Mallard , a member of the opposition
Labour Party, told Radio New Zealand today. New Zealand’s dollar
bought 75.2 U.S. cents this week.  “The Hobbit” is the tale of Bilbo Baggins’ quest to win
treasure guarded by Smaug the dragon. The “Lord of the Rings”
films generated $2.9 billion in worldwide box-office receipts
and another $3 billion from DVDs, merchandise and other sources.
New Zealand’s film industry was worth NZ$2.8 billion in 2009,
according to a  Statistics New Zealand  report.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Chris Bourke  at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  