-- Hochtief Lobbies Australian Regulators in Bid to Foil ACS Takeover Attempt
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-10-26T08:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/hochtief-lobbies-australian-regulators-in-bid-to-foil-acs-takeover-attempt.html
Hochtief AG , seeking to repel a
takeover approach, appealed to Australia’s takeover panel to
force Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA into a cash bid
for a local subsidiary that would inflate the total offer.  Hochtief and its publicly listed Leighton Holdings Ltd.
subsidiary filed three applications with the takeover panel,
according to a  release today . Leighton is seeking a declaration
of unacceptable circumstances, saying the purchase of Hochtief
shares by Spain’s ACS is contrary to the equal opportunity
principle.  “Leighton’s independent directors are concerned that
German takeover law does not provide the same level of
protection for the interests of minority shareholders that
investors expect of companies listed on the Australian
Securities Exchange,” Leighton said in a statement.  The German builder has sought to use its  54.5 percent 
holding in Leighton as a trump to stymie the advance by ACS. An
earlier request by the German builder to have Australia’s
Securities and Investments Commission force a separate bid for
Leighton failed, prompting Hochtief to go to the Takeover Panel.  A separate cash bid for Leighton would complicate ACS’s bid
for Hochtief because the debt-laden Spanish builder seeks to
complete the transaction through a stock swap only. Hochtief,
based in Essen, Germany, opposes the combination, saying the bid
has no value. Leighton is Hochtief’s most prized asset, with its
holding valued almost as highly as the entire company.  ACS already owns close to 30 percent of Hochtief, and aims
to raise its stake to just over 50 percent over time. The
company made a mandatory takeover proposal to all shareholders
in order to push its stake beyond 30 percent, allowing ACS to
then buy shares in the open market and avoiding a premium. ACS
is bidding eight of its shares for 5 Hochtief shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  