-- Oil Declines as Forecast Gain in U.S. Inventories Signals Slowing Demand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-26T10:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/oil-declines-as-forecast-gain-in-u-s-inventories-signals-slowing-demand.html
Oil declined in New York on
speculation slowing fuel demand will cause inventories to rise
in the U.S., the world’s largest crude consumer.  Futures dropped as much as 0.6 percent as the dollar
advanced, limiting the investment appeal of commodities. An
Energy Department report tomorrow may show crude inventories
rose 1.5 million barrels last week, according to a Bloomberg
News analyst survey.  “Inventories are still high, and we do expect more
negative news from the U.S.,” said Thina Saltvedt, a Nordea
Bank AB commodities analyst in Oslo. “We haven’t had any cold
spells yet, so until then it’s a little too early to see $85.
The very strong correlation with the dollar has been dominant
the last few weeks.”  Oil for December delivery fell as much as 68 cents to
$81.84 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and was at $82.33 at 11:04 a.m. London time. Brent
crude for December settlement traded at $83.49 a barrel, down 5
cents, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Crude pared some of its decline as the dollar narrowed
losses against the euro and other currencies. The U.S. currency
was 0.1 percent lower at $1.3946 a euro, compared with $1.3908
earlier today.  U.S. gasoline supplies probably climbed by 625,000 barrels
last week, according to the estimates in the Bloomberg survey.
Supplies of distillate fuel  probably decreased  for a fifth week
as distributors took deliveries before winter and exports to
Europe increased, the Bloomberg News survey shows.  ‘Not Much Support’  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington. The industry-funded American
Petroleum Institute will release its own weekly inventory report
at 4:30 p.m. today.  “If you look at the inventory expectations, crude supplies
should climb, so fundamentally there’s not much support,” said
 Serene Lim , an energy and commodity strategist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “The market will
be determined by the price moves in the dollar.”  Workers at three French oil refineries voted to return to
work as a contested pension bill neared parliamentary approval
and the government warned that fuel shortages were hurting the
economy. The nation’s eight remaining active plants are either
on strike or shut because of a lack of crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  