-- Tokyo Bourse Says SGX-ASX Deal Not Favorable for Tokyo Exchange's Holding
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2010-10-26T08:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/tokyo-bourse-says-sgx-asx-deal-not-favorable-for-tokyo-exchange-s-holding.html
Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. said
 Singapore Exchange Ltd. ’s plan to combine with ASX Ltd. of
Australia isn’t favorable for the Tokyo bourse, which owns
almost 5 percent of its Singapore rival.  The Singaporean company yesterday agreed to buy Australia’s
main stock-exchange operator for A$8.4 billion ($8.3 billion) in
a bid to better compete against Tokyo, Hong Kong and electronic
trading platform Chi-X Global Inc.  Singapore Exchange shares 
fell 6.2 percent yesterday and as much as 3.2 percent today.  “It’s not a good story,” TSE President  Atsushi Saito  told
reporters today in Tokyo. “Our shareholdings will be diluted,
with our stake falling to around 3.1 percent. It’s possible
we’ll have a loss of hundreds of millions of yen.”  Saito also said today that it will be “extremely
difficult” for his company to proceed with an initial public
stock offering this year. The bourse has been considering a
share sale since at least 2007.  Merging the Asia-Pacific region’s fifth- and eighth-largest
exchange operators will create a company overseeing about $1.9
trillion of shares, compared with Tokyo’s $3.7 trillion and Hong
Kong’s $2.6 trillion. Japan’s stock market has the third largest
capitalization worldwide, behind the U.S. and China, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is a good opportunity to think about what strategies
Tokyo needs to take next in order to combat competition in
Asia,” Saito said today.  The Japanese bourse said in June 2007 that it paid 37.4
billion yen ($461 million) for 4.99 percent of Singapore
Exchange, seeking to enhance an alliance between the companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Mukai  in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 