-- U.S. Home Price Gains Likely Slowed After End of Tax Credit
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/home-prices-probably-receded-as-u-s-sales-slumped-after-tax-credit-lapsed.html
Home prices in 20 U.S. cities
probably rose at a slower pace in August as sales plunged after
a tax break expired, economists forecast before a report today.  The  S&P/Case-Shiller  index increased 2.1 percent from
August 2009, the smallest year-over-year gain since February,
according to the  median forecast  of 27 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Other data may show consumer confidence climbed
in October from a seven-month low.  The end of a government credit worth as much as $8,000
precipitated a decrease in purchases that has yet to be
reversed, keeping pressure on prices in coming months. At the
same time, record foreclosures will dump more properties on the
market and unemployment will restrain sales, indicating
housing’s role in the economic recovery will be limited.  “It’s a fundamental imbalance between very, very weak
demand and very, very high supply,” said  Paul Dales , a U.S.
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto. “Prices need to
change and that points to downward movement.”  S&P/Case-Shiller’s figures are scheduled to be released at
9 a.m. Washington time. Estimates ranged from a drop of 0.6
percent to an increase of 3.5 percent.  The Conference Board will issue its  consumer confidence 
data at 10 a.m. The New York-based research group’s index rose
to 49.9 from 48.5, according to the  survey median . Economists
forecast ranged from 45 to 53.  August Decline  Home prices  fell 0.2 percent in August from the prior
month, according to the Bloomberg survey, after decreasing 0.13
percent the prior month.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, according to the group. Economists  Karl Case 
and  Robert Shiller  founded the index.  The government incentive gave housing a temporary lift in
late 2009 and early this year, helping to stem a slide in
prices. The initial tax break required contracts be signed by
the end of November, pushing  sales  of existing homes to an
almost three-year high 6.49 million annual pace that month,
according to figures from the National Association of Realtors.  Demand dropped for the next three months, only to be
revived by the extension of the deadline to the end of April,
which caused purchases to peak at a 5.79 million pace that
month. After tumbling to a 3.84 million pace in July, the lowest
since comparable records began in 1999, sales have climbed for
the past two months, reaching a 4.53 million pace in September.  Builder Shares  The industry’s struggles help explain why builder shares
are depressed. The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Homebuilding 
Index has declined 7.3 percent so far this year, compared with a
6.3 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  Foreclosure moratoria at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and other
banks, along with government investigations into faulty
paperwork, threaten to further delay a recovery as houses slated
for repossession take longer to come to market.  The U.S. central bank and other regulators are
“intensively” examining financial firms’ home-foreclosure
practices and expect preliminary findings next month, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday at a housing
conference in Arlington, Virginia.  He said more than 20 percent of borrowers owed more than
their home was worth. “With housing markets still weak, high
levels of mortgage distress may well persist for some time to
come,” he said.  Fed officials have signaled they may start another round of
unconventional monetary easing at their next meeting Nov. 2-3 to
try to spur the economic recovery.  Fed’s View  Housing markets  were “weak,” with “sluggish or
declining” sales in many regions, the Fed said last week in its
survey of regional districts for September and early October.
“Respondents’ outlooks suggested sales and construction would
remain subdued through year-end,” the Fed said.  Housing starts  in September were 73 percent lower than the
three-decade peak of 2.27 million reached in January 2006.  “We don’t think home prices are going to get much lower
than what they are today,”  Larry Sorsby , chief financial
officer at  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. , the largest homebuilder
in New Jersey, said during an Oct. 7 conference call.
“Unfortunately, fear is outweighing affordability today.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 Bobwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  