-- U.S. Economy: Confidence Increases More Than Forecast
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-26T20:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-rose-less-than-forecast-case-shiller-says.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
in October from a seven-month low as households turned less
pessimistic on the outlook for the economic recovery.  The Conference Board’s  sentiment index  climbed to 50.2,
exceeding the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, from a
revised 48.6 in September, according to figures from the New
York-based research group today. Another report showed home-
price gains receded in August after a tax credit lapsed.  Americans’ views on job availability and wage prospects
soured, according to the confidence figures, highlighting the
risk that unemployment near 10 percent will limit spending,
which accounts for 70 percent of the world’s biggest economy.
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  is among retailers seeing sales drop off at
the end of each month as households run low on cash.  “Confidence is still very depressed,” said  Ryan Sweet , a
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania. “For many it’s still going to feel like a
recession until employment comes back.”  Most stocks fell, led by consumer-staples companies, as
results at companies from Kimberly-Clark Corp. to U.S. Steel
Corp. disappointed investors. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index
was little changed at 1,185.64 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.
About eight stocks retreated for every seven that rose on U.S.
exchanges.  Economists surveyed forecast the sentiment index would
increase to 49.9 from a previously reported 48.5 for September,
according to the median of 75 projections. Estimates ranged from
45 to 53.  Confidence Breakdown  The increase in confidence was led by a gain in the gauge
of  expectations  for the next six months. The Conference Board’s
measure of present conditions also advanced.  The share of people who said jobs were plentiful fell to
the lowest level of the year and income expectations were the
weakest since April 2009.  “Confidence is still at a very low level,” said  James O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New
York. “We’re not seeing any hard evidence of a strong bounce
back yet.”  Wal-Mart Chief Executive Officer  Michael Duke  yesterday
said consumer confidence is “not very positive” because of the
high level of unemployment. Toward the end of every month
customers begin reducing the quantity of goods they buy and the
amount they spend, he said at a press conference in New Delhi.  “The consumer in the U.S. is still under a lot of
pressure,” Duke said. “With the high levels of unemployment in
the U.S., there is still an overhang of concern that does impact
consumer spending.”  Home Values  In addition to unemployment, concern over deteriorating
property values may also be weighing on Americans’ psyche.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values covering 20
cities increased 1.7 percent from August 2009, the smallest
year-over-year gain since February, the group said in New York.
The median forecast of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 2.1 percent increase. The measure is 28 percent
below its peak in July 2006.  The end of a government credit worth as much as $8,000
precipitated a decrease in purchases that has yet to be
reversed, keeping pressure on prices in coming months. At the
same time, record foreclosures will dump more properties on the
market and  unemployment  will restrain sales, indicating
housing’s role in the economic recovery will be limited.  The government incentive gave housing a temporary lift in
late 2009 and early this year. The tax break initially required
contracts be signed by the end of November, pushing sales of
 existing homes  to an almost three-year high that month,
according to figures from the National Association of Realtors.  Credit’s Influence  After the deadline was extended through April, purchases
tumbled in July to the lowest level since comparable records
began in 1999. September sales were still short of June’s pace,
the agents’ group reported yesterday.  “The recovery that started in 2009 has petered out,”  Karl Case , one of the co-founders of the index that bears his name,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene from Wellesley, Massachusetts. He
said excess supply was the main challenge to a recovery in
housing. “That’s the big negative: the vacancy inventory.”  The gauge fell 0.3 percent in August from the  prior month 
after adjusting for seasonal variations, the second consecutive
decrease and the biggest drop since April 2009. Prices reflect a
three-month average, indicating the August readings are still
being influenced by the earlier drop in sales.  Other Price Gauge  A report today from the Federal Housing Finance Agency
showed home prices fell 2.4 percent in August from a year
earlier. Measured from July, prices rose 0.4 percent, according
to FHFA.  Both the S&P/Case-Shiller index and the FHFA measure are
based on repeat sales data that compare prices of the same
properties over time. The former covers all properties, while
the later only takes into account  sales  of homes with mortgages
that conform to rules set by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.  Foreclosure moratoria at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and other
banks, along with government investigations into faulty
paperwork, threaten to further delay a recovery as houses slated
for repossession take longer to come to market.  The economy is a top issue for voters now with a week left
before the November congressional elections. Polls are showing
the public is increasingly skeptical of President Barack Obama’s
performance. Obama’s job approval in the three days ended Oct.
24 was 43 percent, compared with an average 57 percent last
year, according to a poll from Princeton, New Jersey-based
Gallup Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  