-- Monsanto, Gemalto, ThyssenKrupp, LFP, Rothschild: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-26T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/monsanto-thyssenkrupp-rothschild-intellectual-property.html
Monsanto Co. , the world’s largest
seed company, was sued by the state of West Virginia for
allegedly refusing to cooperate with an attorney general’s probe
into the sale of soybeans that can withstand Roundup weed
killer.  West Virginia is looking into whether claims Monsanto makes
about its patented Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans are supported
by test results. Second-generation Roundup Ready 2 Yield plants
are priced significantly higher than the first-generation seeds,
Attorney General Darrell McGraw said yesterday in a statement.  In its civil enforcement action, the state is seeking an
order barring Monsanto from selling products in West Virginia
until it complies with its subpoena.  “I want to ensure there is a fair marketplace for West
Virginia farmers,” McGraw said. “They need to know if it is
worth extra money to buy new products that may not live up to
the hype.”  St. Louis-based Monsanto said the attorney general’s office
won’t agree to a protective order related to the confidential
intellectual property information. The information sought is
similar to other legal claims that are covered by a protective
order, the company said.  “Agriculture is our only business at Monsanto, and we are
committed to the success of farmers,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement. “That’s why we introduce new products only
after we have thoroughly tested them and have the full
confidence -- backed by data -- that they will deliver on
farm.”  West Virginia grew about 18,000 acres of the nation’s 77.5
million acres of soybeans last year, making it the smallest
soybean-growing state tracked by the U.S. Agriculture
Department.  Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybean seed will cost about $5 an
acre more than the first-generation herbicide-resistant product
introduced in 1996, the company said in August. That’s a 75
percent reduction versus a premium of at least $20 that Monsanto
charged this year. About $10 of the reduction comes from making
seed treatments optional.  Monsanto today said its Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans are
yielding 3 bushels an acre more than the original soybean
engineered to withstand applications of Roundup herbicide.
Roundup Ready 2 soybeans struggled to meet a forecasted yield
advantage of 7 percent to 11 percent last year when the seeds
first became available.  Gemalto Sues Google, HTC, Samsung Over Java Technology  Gemalto NV  sued  Google Inc.  and phonemakers  HTC Corp. ,
 Motorola Inc.  and  Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd ., claiming the
Android mobile-phone operating system used its technology
without permission.  The manufacturer of digital-security technology sued the
companies for patent-infringement, according to the complaint
filed Oct. 22 in federal court in Texas. Gemalto said the
development platform for Android improperly includes its Java
Card technology, which allows software written in Java and other
“high-level programming languages” to run on mobile phones.  In dispute are U.S. patents 6,308,317, issued in October
2001; 7,117,485, issued in October 2006; and 7,818,727, issued
Oct. 19, three days before the suit was filed.  Google’s Android is now the most popular operating system
for smartphones in the U.S., with Apple Inc.’s iOS and Research
in Motion Inc.’s BlackBerry platforms tied for second place,
Nielsen Co. said earlier this month.  The Java Card allows applications developed on other
platforms to run on “a resource constrained device” like a
mobile phone, Gemalto said in a statement on its website. The
technology was developed in the 1990s at the company’s Texas
research facilities, according to the statement.  HTC “absolutely respects innovation and intellectual
property patents,” and is investigating the Java Card issue,
the company said in an e-mailed statement. Motorola is reviewing
the Gemalto complaint and “will vigorously defend itself,” it
said in an e-mailed statement.  Samsung spokeswoman Chenny Kim declined to comment. Google
spokesman Bill Echikson didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Gemalto, based in Amsterdam, last week reported a 25
percent increase in third-quarter revenue, led by its security
and secure payments business.  The company is represented by  Samuel Franklin Baxter ,
 Robert A. Cote ,  Kevin Schubert ,  Peter J. Ayers  and  Geoffrey L.
Smith  of Dallas-based  McKool Smith PC .  The case is Gemalto v. HTC Corp., 6:10-cv-00561, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  ThyssenKrupp Elevator Says It Won Patent Lawsuit Over Inventio  ThyssenKrupp AG , which will be installing elevators in
Saudi Arabia’s tallest skyscraper, said in a statement its U.S.
elevator unit won a patent lawsuit filed by Inventio, a
Hergiswil, Switzerland-based unit of  Schindler Holding AG .  Inventio sued Dusseldorf, Germany-based ThyssenKrupp in
November 2008, claiming U.S. patents 6,892,861 and 6,935,465,
which covered technology used in elevator modernization, were
infringed. ThyssenKrupp said it persuaded the court its
technology didn’t infringe the Inventio patents and claims the
disputed technology had been in use for a long time and
therefore wasn’t patentable.  The case is Inventio AG v. ThyssenKrupp Elevator Americas
Corp., 1:08-cv-00874-ER, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Maker of Adult Films Sues 2,619 Defendants for Infringement  LFP Internet Group LLC, the operator of the Hustler.com
website and a distributor of adult films, sued 2,619 unnamed
defendants for copyright infringement.  The defendants are accused of using BitTorrent file-
transfer technology to download and share unauthorized copies of
LFP’s film “This Ain’t Avatar XXX.”  The film’s distributor said it isn’t presently able to
identify the defendants by name, but expects to be able to do so
during the life of the case. At this time, all it knows are the
defendants’ Internet Protocol address assigned by their Internet
service providers, according to the complaint filed Oct. 22 in
federal court in Dallas.  LFP said it anticipates finding additional defendants
during in the course of the litigation.  It asked the court to bar future infringement of the
copyright and requested an order for the destruction of all
unauthorized copies of the film. Additionally, it seeks money
damages, and awards of litigation costs and attorney fees.  LFP is represented by Evan F. Stone of the  Law Offices of
Evan Stone  of Denton, Texas.  The case is LFP Internet Group LLC v. Does 1-2619, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  French Internet Users Sent 25,000 Infringement Warnings Daily  HADOPI , France’s government agency given power to police
the Internet, is sending out 25,000 copyright infringement
notices a day, Billboard  reported .  Rights holders report the Internet Protocol addresses of
alleged infringements to HADOPI, which sends out the notices,
according to Billboard.  All but one French Internet service provider have agreed to
participate in the program through which HADOPI sends them
requests for the identification of alleged infringers, Billboard
reported.  After receiving notice from HADOPI, the Internet Service
providers have 24 hours in which to send the allegedly offending
subscribers e-mail warning messages.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Rothschild Family Interests Sues for Alleged Infringement  Rothschilds Continuation Holdings AG, the parent company
for the  Rothschild family  banking operations, sued a New York-
based consulting company for trademark infringement.  Co-defendant with the company -- Rothschild Erken Group LLC
-- is  Aaron Joseph Rothschild .  According to his company’s website, Aaron Rothschild, who
has a degree in advertising design and marketing, is a former
broker in the aviation industry and a project manager for an
international safe, vault and security company. He is presently
marketing director for Rothschild Erken Group.  According to the complaint filed Oct. 22 in federal court
in Manhattan, Aaron Rothschild is also the organizer of an
entity known as “The Rothschild Club” and controls the
Internet Domain name “Rothschildclub.com” and maintains and
promotes a website, “www. Rothschildclub.com.  The Rothschild holding company said the club website
contains a “largely fictitious” history of the Rothschild
family, and gives the false impression the club is associated
with or sponsored by the Rothschild family and attendant
entities.  According to the  club website , the organization’s focus
“is good personal conduct” and it is “committed to the
highest levels of comfort and cuisine, exceptional events and an
unmatched level of personal service.” The club meets at New
York’s St. Regis Hotel, according to the website.  The Rothschild holding company claims the website, the
company and Aaron Rothschild have caused them “irreparable
injury which is not capable of monetary determination.” The
public is led to believe, falsely, that an affiliation exists
between the family and Aaron Rothschild’s company and
activities, according to court papers.  The holding company asked the court to bar Aaron Rothschild
from representing he’s a member of the Rothschild family “or is
a descendent of an ennobled family or is himself ennobled.”
Additionally, the company asked a ban on the use of the terms
“Rothschild Club” “ Rothschild Erken Group ” and any domain
name that contains the world “Rothschild.”  It also asked to be transferred all rights to the
Rotchildclub.com and similar domain names, and for an award of
profits the defendants derived from their alleged acts of
infringement. The holding company also seeks money damages, and
awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  Rothschilds Continuation Holdings is represented by  Andrew
L. Deutsch  of Chicago’s  DLA Piper LLP .  The case is Rothschilds Continuation Holdings AG v. Aaron
Joseph Rothschild, 1:10-cv-08039-KMW, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  VW, Porsche, Commerzbank Bank Facebook, Twitter  Workplace Use  Volkswagen AG ,  Porsche Automobil Holdings  SE, and
 Commerzbank AG  are among the Germany companies that have banned
workplace use of Facebook Inc.’s and Twitter Inc.’s social
network sites for fear of industrial espionage, the U.K.’s Daily
Mail  reported .  Computer experts have told companies that the social
network sites threaten the security of their information-
technology websites, according to the Daily Mail.  Another reason the sites are banned is a fear of
productivity decline because of potential distractions to
employees, the newspaper reported.  Use of  Google Inc. ’s YouTube video-sharing site is also
banned at some Germany companies’ offices, according to the
Daily Globe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 