-- Tony Romo Breaks Collarbone as NY Giants Win 41-35 to Drop Cowboys to 1-5
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-26T05:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/tony-romo-breaks-collarbone-as-ny-giants-win-41-35-to-drop-cowboys-to-1-5.html
The Dallas Cowboys slumped to
their worst start in 21 years and may face the rest of the
National Football League season without quarterback  Tony Romo , who broke his collarbone in a 41-35 loss to the New
York Giants.  Eli Manning  threw four touchdown passes last night in
Arlington, Texas, to extend the Giants’ winning streak to
four games and leave the Cowboys with a 1-5 mark for the
season.  “It was our first divisional game at Dallas, a tough
situation against a good team, and we found a way to win,”
Manning said during a news conference. “We overcame a
lot.”  New York has a 5-2 record and moved into sole
possession of first place in its division. The Cowboys
haven’t had such a bad beginning to a season since the 1989
team went 0-8 en route to a 1-15 campaign. The 1970
Cincinnati Bengals are the only NFL team to make the
playoffs after a 1-5 start.  Romo fractured his clavicle early in the second
quarter when he landed on his left side while being tackled
by Giants linebacker  Michael Boley . Romo returned to the
sideline with his non-throwing arm in a sling.  It’s  unlikely  the three-time Pro Bowl selection will
play again this season, said Selene Parekh, an associate
professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at Duke
University. A fractured clavicle usually takes six to eight
weeks to heal if surgery is performed and eight to 10 weeks
without surgery, Parekh said in an e-mail.  ‘Extensive Time’ Out  Dallas coach  Wade Phillips  said he doesn’t know how
long the Cowboys will be without Romo, who told reporters
he’ll find out the extent of the damage today.  “I’m sure this will be the most extensive time I will
have missed,” Romo said in a news conference. “It’s going
to be tough. You just have to keep fighting and I’ll
support this team in any way I can.”  The Cowboys opened a 10-0 first-quarter lead as
Manning threw two interceptions before completing a pass to
one of his receivers.  Dallas rookie  Dez Bryant  got the first of his three
touchdowns on a 93-yard punt return 6:07 into the second
quarter to push the home team’s advantage to 20-7.  In the final five minutes of the second quarter,
Manning threw his second touchdown of the game to  Hakeem Nicks  and then hooked up with  Steve Smith  for a 14-yard
score that put New York ahead 21-20.  Lawrence Tynes  made it
24-20 with a 53-yard field goal two seconds before
halftime.  Manning’s Fourth Touchdown  Manning tossed a 25-yard touchdown pass to  Mario Manningham  in the third quarter and  Brandon Jacobs  added a
30-yard touchdown run as the Giants boosted their lead.  The Cowboys managed one first down in seven
possessions after Romo’s injury. Dallas drove to New York’s
6-yard line early in the fourth quarter before  Jon Kitna 
threw four straight incomplete passes, including one on
fourth down.  Bryant had two touchdown receptions from Kitna in the
final 3:17 for the Cowboys before the Giants sealed the win
by recovering an onside kick with 39 seconds left.  The loss is Dallas’s third straight against the
Giants, who won both meetings between the National Football
Conference East Division rivals last season.  The Giants are tied with the Atlanta Falcons for the
best record in the NFC and have a one-game lead over the
Washington Redskins and Philadelphia Eagles in the NFC
East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  