-- Moody's to Decide on Hungary's Possible Debt Rating Downgrade Next Month
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2010-10-26T09:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/moody-s-to-decide-on-hungary-s-possible-debt-rating-downgrade-next-month.html
Moody’s Investors Service, which has
been reviewing Hungary’s debt rating for a possible downgrade
since talks with the country’s international creditors broke
down in July, will make a decision in November.  Moody’s, which rates Hungary three levels above junk at
Baa1, is assessing the economic outlook. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  announced measures including temporary taxes to reduce the
budget deficit to 3.8 percent of gross domestic product this
year and less than 3 percent in 2011 after roiling markets with
plans to widen the shortfall earlier.  “The fiscal targets are good news, but that said, we are
looking beyond these targets,” Frankfurt-based Moody’s analyst
 Dietmar Hornung  said by phone yesterday. “We will assess to
what extent the measures that have been announced are
appropriate to preserve economic strength and financial
strength.”  The government, led by Orban’s Fidesz party, said Oct. 13
it will impose levies on energy companies, telecommunications
operators and retail chains. The taxes, together with a
previously announced bank levy, will raise 343 billion forint
($1.76 billion), or 1.4 percent of economic output, annually for
three years.  Four-Month Standoff  Hungary’s pledge to reduce the deficit followed a four-
month standoff with the International Monetary Fund and European
Union, which rescued the country from default two years ago,
about economic policy goals.  The forint fell 0.3 percent to 274.55 as of 11:23 a.m. in
Budapest, its first decline in five days.  The government will also withhold transfers of social
security payments to private pension funds through the end of
next year, saving 30 billion forint a month from Nov. 1. The
plans include a minimum-wage increase of at least 4.5 percent
for next year, cutting 10 percent of public-sector jobs and a
flat personal income-tax.  “The key is economic policy that is pursued by the Fidesz
government and whether the measures that are proposed are
appropriate to restore economic strength and to increase
competitiveness, flexibility and vitality of the economy,”
Hornung said.  Hungary failed to convince the IMF, that plans to levy new
taxes, cut spending and shift pension payments to the budget
will be enough to meet  deficit  targets.  The plan may lead to slower  growth  and a “significantly”
wider shortfall than the government forecasts beginning in 2011,
said  Christoph Rosenberg , head of an IMF delegation that
conducted an annual review of the economy, yesterday. Hungary
must cut spending more to achieve a sustainable budget, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  