-- OPI Products Said to Be in Talks for Sale, May Fetch $1 Billion
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-10-26T20:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/opi-products-said-to-be-in-talks-to-sell-nail-care-company-for-1-billion.html
OPI Products Inc. , the closely held
nail-care company, is in advanced talks to sell itself to a
beauty-care company or private-equity firm for as much as $1
billion, said four people with knowledge of the matter.  Closely held perfume maker  Coty Inc.  is the likeliest
buyer, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. Private-equity firms Bain Capital LLC and
Advent International Corp. are also among those that made first-
round bids, said the people. Second-round bids are due in the
next two weeks, they said.  OPI, based in North Hollywood, California, may fetch $900
million to $1 billion, said the people. Investment bank  Lazard
Ltd.  is running the auction for OPI, according to the people.
Interested buyers are conducting due diligence on OPI, which
sells nail polish, hand-and-foot care products and body lotion.  Coty distributes fragrances such as “Lovely” from actress
Sarah Jessica Parker and “Princess” from designer Vera Wang.
OPI’s products, which are used in nail salons, include the color
“Teas-y Does It,” from the Holiday 2010 Burlesque collection
based on Sony Pictures’ upcoming movie starring Cher and
Christina Aguilera.  L’Oreal SA , the world’s largest cosmetics maker, didn’t
make a first-round offer, said another person familiar with the
matter. The Paris-based company is watching the bidding and may
join later, the person said.  Founded in 1981  OPI has annual sales of about $300 million and earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about
$80 million, said the people with knowledge the situation. The
company is seeking 11 to 12 times its earnings for the sale,
they said. President and Chief Executive Officer George
Schaeffer founded the company in 1981, according to OPI’s
website.  “These rumors have persisted for years, and other than
that, I have no comment,” said Harris Shepard, a spokesman for
OPI.  Spokeswomen for L’Oreal and New York-based Coty declined to
comment. Coty calls itself the world’s largest fragrance
company, with annual sales of about $4 billion. Spokesmen for
Bain and Advent also declined to comment.  In April, L’Oreal agreed to buy Essie Cosmetics to expand
in the nail color market in the U.S. Terms weren’t disclosed.
Essie’s sales in the previous 12 months were $28 million,
L’Oreal said at the time.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 