-- Morgan Stanley Plans to Close $1.19 Billion P2 Value German Property Fund
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-10-26T16:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/morgan-stanley-to-close-1-19-billion-german-property-fund.html
Morgan Stanley  will shut down its
852 million-euro ($1.19 billion) P2 Value fund, becoming the
third asset manager to liquidate a German mutual property fund
in a month after too many investors wanted their money back.  The  P2 Value  fund’s managers will sell all of its 34
properties, spread across Europe, Japan, Hong Kong and the U.S.,
within three years, according to a  statement  on the website of
Morgan Stanley’s German unit. The proceeds will be distributed
to the fund’s investors, mostly German, in half-yearly payments.  Morgan Stanley follows  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc  and
Kanam Grund Kapitalanlagesellschaft mbH in announcing the
closure of a mutual fund. The companies failed to raise enough
from disposals to repay investors before a deadline forcing them
to open the funds for redemptions. All three halted redemptions
two years ago as investors scrambled to withdraw money as the
financial crisis escalated.  “This is a crisis that’s been on the horizon for some
time,” said  Jan Hagen , who teaches students about banking and
other financial services at Berlin’s  European School of
Management and Technology . “The whole asset class is coming
under pressure because of the risks these funds present --
something that wasn’t visible in the past.”  Lack of Liquidity  The crisis has exposed the lack of liquidity among property
funds: while it can take months to buy or sell a building,
investors may change the amount of money they have in a fund on
a daily basis. This can become a problem if money comes into the
funds more slowly or stops altogether.  The situation was aggravated by funds putting money into
these investment products alongside private individuals. Most
avoided the initial 5 percent fee designed to encourage
investors to keep their money in the fund for years, according
to Iryna Pylypchuk, a research director at  CB Richard Ellis
Group Inc.   Allianz Global Investors AG suspended redemptions on Sept.
27 in its Premium Management Immobilien Anlagen P fund of funds
after investors redeemed 1 billion euros in the first nine
months of the year. The company tried to gain more time to
return money to investors and will sell some of the fund’s
remaining 1.2 billion euros of assets, which include a stake in
Morgan Stanley’s P2 Value fund.  The liquidations in the past month are the first for
Germany’s 88 billion-euro mutual property fund industry,
undermining confidence in an investment favored by German savers
for the regular income that it generates.  Frozen Funds  Aside from the three to be liquidated, seven other funds
are suspended for redemptions. That means 24.8 billion euros, or
28 percent of property mutual fund assets, are unavailable to
investors, figures compiled by Frankfurt-based  BVI Bundesverband
Investment & Asset Management  show.  The funds are most likely to sell assets in the Asia
Pacific region, France, Germany and the U.K. because demand from
buyers is strongest in those markets, CB Richard Ellis’s
Pylypchuk said.  The funds’ liquidity crisis led German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  to propose a cap on redemptions and penalize
new savers who hold their investments in funds for less more
four years. A draft bill will be presented to parliament in the
first half of next year and has welcomed by many asset managers.  “This set of amendments is yet another attempt by the
German government to bring stronger protection for retail
investors,” Pylypchuk said.  Limited Withdrawals  Under the draft rules, which may not take effect until the
end of 2011, new investors wouldn’t be allowed to withdraw more
than 5,000 euros each month. New investments would have to be
held for at least two years, with a 10 percent and 5 percent cut
on withdrawals in the third and fourth year respectively.  When redemptions are suspended, funds would have 2 1/2
years in which to restore liquidity before a depository bank
takes over. Property sales may not be done below a certain
percentage of appraisal valuations, which will also become more
frequent than the once a year practice now.  SEB Asset Management Chief Executive Officer  Barbara Knoflach  said the legislation will prompt some professional
money managers to move into more flexible  “special” funds or
closed-end funds.  The fund management industry “will go back to pure retail
funds and pure institutional funds,” she said in an interview
at the Expo Real trade fair in Munich earlier this month. SEB
closed its 6.3 billion-euro  ImmoInvest  fund in May.  Biggest Winners  Other asset managers said the rules may lead to more
consolidation in the industry, with the main winners being the
large, stable funds with regular inflows, particularly those
generated by banks with a network of branches.  “Running open-ended funds won’t work without having a
branch network,” said  Matthias Danne , the DekaBank Deutsche
Girozentrale management board member who heads its property-fund
unit.  The three largest asset managers are owned by banks. Deka
Immobilien GmbH, the biggest, is owned by regional savings
banks, Union Investment Real Estate GmbH is controlled by
Germany’s cooperative banks and Commerz Real AG is part of
Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG, which has 800 branches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 