-- Morgan Stanley Plans $1.5 Billion Debt Sale as Bank Bonds Beat Corporates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-26T17:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/morgan-stanley-plans-sale-of-five-year-notes-in-benchmark-size.html
Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, plans to sell $1.5 billion of notes as U.S.
financial debt overcomes foreclosure investigations and slumping
trading revenue to outperform overall corporate securities.  The five-year debt, set to be sold as soon as today, may
yield 225 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
said a person familiar with the offering, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  U.S. bank bonds are beating overall corporate debt for a
second month even as states probe the industry’s foreclosure
practices. Morgan Stanley last week reported a third-quarter
loss on a per-share basis, in its worst trading quarter since
2008. Still, investors favor the premium over Treasuries on bank
debt versus that of industrials, said  Mirko Mikelic , senior
portfolio manager at Fifth Third Asset Management.  “Just because they’re in a business that’s maybe slowing
down in the near term doesn’t mean they’re not going to get good
pricing,” said Mikelic, who helps oversee $14 billion of fixed-
income assets, including Morgan Stanley debt, in Grand Rapids,
Michigan. “We still like financials relative to industrials,
because industrial spreads have just come in so much.”  The average 225 basis-point spread on U.S. bank debt
compares with a 155 basis-point yield over Treasuries on
industrial bonds, the lowest since May 3, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Bank Bonds  U.S. bank debt has returned 0.52 percent to investors this
month, exceeding the 0.31 percent gain on all corporate debt,
according to the index data. That follows a 1.18 percent gain in
September, which also beat the 0.59 percent return on overall
corporate bonds.  “It’s tough to find value anywhere in corporate land
because everything’s just run in so tightly, spread-wise,”
Mikelic said.  Morgan Stanley last issued five-year notes on July 21 as
part of a $3 billion offering, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The $1.25 billion of 4 percent debt priced at 99.655
cents on the dollar to pay a spread of 245 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  The notes due in July 2015 traded yesterday at 103.323
cents on the dollar to yield 3.237 percent, or 210.4 basis
points more than benchmarks, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Morgan Stanley trails Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Citigroup Inc., Wells Fargo & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in size.  Goldman Sachs reported earnings that beat analysts’
estimates as lower costs and higher investment-banking revenue
cushioned a decline in trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  