-- Morocco Foreign Investment May Rise to $3.5 Billion
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A i d a   A l a m i
-- 2010-10-26T22:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/morocco-foreign-investment-may-rise-to-3-5-billion-in-2011-minister-says.html
Morocco expects foreign direct
investment to increase by as much as 40 percent in 2011 as the
global economy recovers from its worst recession since World War
II, a government minister said.  The North African country may attract up to $3.5 billion
next year, compared with an estimated $2.5 billion in 2010,
Economy and Finance Minister  Salaheddine Mezouar  told reporters
today at the World Economic Forum in Marrakesh. The investments
will probably be in “energy, financial services and
telecommunications,” he said.  Morocco’s economy is expected to expand 4 percent in 2010,
according to the central bank. The government is forecasting
economic growth of 5 percent next year, increasing by half a
percentage point annually through 2013, Mezouar said in a Sept.
30 interview.  France Telecom SA  said in September that it has agreed to
buy 40 percent of Medi Telecom SA, Morocco’s second-largest
mobile-phone operator, for 640 million euros ($886.5 million) as
part of its plan to expand in emerging markets.  Renault SA , France’s second-biggest carmaker, is building a
car factory in the Moroccan city Tangiers and production will
start in 2012, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said today
in Marrakesh. The 1 billion-euro ($1.4 billion) plant will have
an annual capacity of 400,000 vehicles, with 10 percent to 20
percent to be sold in Morocco and surrounding countries.  Bond Sale  Morocco sold 1 billion euros of 10-year bonds in October as
part of a plan to reduce reliance on local borrowing.  Asked whether the government may tap international markets
again, Mezouar said in an interview with Bloomberg Television:
“We are open to the market, open to the opportunities the
market will bring us.”  The government expects next year’s budget deficit to be 3.5
percent of gross domestic product, the minister said, without
giving a comparative figure for 2010.  The kingdom’s reliance on exports to Europe makes it
vulnerable to any economic slowdown there.  “We can’t say that the crisis is over because as you know
we are very linked to the European Union,” Nizar Baraka,
minister delegate to the prime minister in charge of general and
economic affairs, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
today. “Sixty-five percent of our exports” go to the European
Union, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Marrakesh via Cairo newsroom at   asalha@bloomberg.net ;
 Aida Alami  in Marrakesh via Cairo newsroom at 
 egyptnews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net  