-- Mortgages to Drop Below $1 Trillion in 2011 to Least Since 1996
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-26T20:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/mortgages-to-drop-below-1-trillion-in-2011-to-least-since-1996.html
Home lending in the U.S. will fall
below $1 trillion next year to the lowest level since 1996,
according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.  Originations will decline to $996 billion in 2011, from a
projected total of $1.4 trillion this year, the trade group said
today in a  statement  released during its annual conference in
Atlanta. Lending reached a record $3.8 trillion in 2003 as
refinancing soared, with new loans remaining elevated over the
next few years as home  prices  and sales boomed.  Rates that are unlikely to go lower even if the Federal
Reserve buys more U.S. debt will cause refinancing to dissipate
by the second half of next year,  Jay Brinkmann , the mortgage
group’s chief economist, said. A rush by U.S. homeowners to
refinance at near record-low  interest rates  has marked a rare
bright spot for the mortgage industry, under attack for choking
the economy with shoddy loans and botched foreclosures.  “With these interest rates, you cannot be having a bad
year in 2010,”  Dan Arrigoni , chief executive officer of
Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp’s mortgage unit, the sixth-
largest U.S. home lender, said yesterday during a panel at the
conference. “It will probably go down as ranking number one or
two for us, both in terms of production and profits.”  Loan rates are influencing refinancing levels even more than
during the last explosion in mortgages because tighter lending
standards and an almost 30 percent drop in U.S. property prices
since their 2006 peak are limiting consumers’ use of cash-out
refinancings to tap home equity, said Brinkmann of the
Washington-based  Mortgage Bankers Association .  Refinancing to Drop  As new-mortgage volumes decline, lenders will need to trim
their operations and face greater competition for loans that
reduces lending margins, Brinkmann said.  Total home lending will drop next year because refinancing
will fall “as mortgage rates increase and the pool of eligible
borrowers shrinks,” the group said in the statement. More loans
for home purchases will offset some of that decline, as
“existing home sales recover and home prices stabilize.”  This year’s estimated $480 billion of home-purchase
mortgages would be the lowest total since 1993, Brinkmann said.
Next year, such lending may rise to $626 billion, as refinancing
falls to $370 billion from $921 billion, his projections show.  Home-loan executives including Arrigoni and  Todd Chamberlain , who oversees mortgage lending at Birmingham,
Alabama-based Regions Financial Corp., said at the conference
that they will be able to respond to lower originations because
they expanded this year by adding temporary workers and
authorizing overtime for existing employees.  Home-Purchase Lending  Ron J. McCord , chairman of Oklahoma City-based First
Mortgage Co., which makes about $1 billion in loans a year, said
that he “brought back retirees” who can be let go.  His company has been focusing on strengthening its home-
purchase lending, including by building relationships with real-
estate agents and training staff on government mortgage programs
for American Indians, because “we all thought the refis could
die this year,” he added.  Increases in the value of mortgage-servicing contracts as
interest rates rise, extending their projected lives by reducing
estimated refinancing, will help some lenders offset lower
origination profits, Arrigoni and McCord said.  The average rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage fell to
a record low 4.19 percent earlier this month, down from this
year’s high of 5.21 percent in April, according to McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac.  Compared with a year earlier, existing home sales were down
19 percent in September, the National Association of Realtors
said yesterday. Sales fell to a 4.53 million annual rate,
exceeding the 4.3 million pace that economists forecast,
according to the median projection in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Mortgage Bankers’ estimates for total lending have
declined from its forecast last month for $1.45 trillion of
originations in 2010 and $1.06 trillion in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  