-- Osaka Titanium to Increase Contract Prices on Rebounding Aerospace Demand
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2010-10-26T06:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/osaka-titanium-to-increase-contract-prices-on-rebounding-aerospace-demand.html
Osaka Titanium Technologies Co., the
world’s second-largest producer, plans to raise contract prices
for the first time in three years because of higher costs and a
recovery in aviation demand, including in China.  The company is close to settling a “mid-single” digit
percentage point increase with most of its overseas customers
for calendar 2011,  Shozo Nishizawa , president of the Amagasaki-
based company, said in an interview. The company produces
titanium sponge, a semi-processed material that is refined to
make the lightweight and corrosion-resistant metal used in power
plants and by aircraft makers such as  Boeing Co.   “The move illustrates that titanium and other material
users are ready to accept price increases amid strong demand in
emerging markets,” said  Yasuhiro Matsumoto , a senior analyst at
Shinsei Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Air China Ltd. the world’s largest carrier by market value,
said last month it will buy four Boeing 777-300ER planes for
$1.15 billion as passenger numbers gain. Nishizawa, who took
office last year, plans to hire more than 100 temporary workers
by December to meet the faster-than-expected rebound in demand.  Osaka Titanium rose as much as 2.3 percent and closed 1.3
percent higher at 3,925 yen at 3 p.m. in Tokyo trading,
reversing a decline of as much as 2.5 percent. The  shares  have
risen 54 percent this year.  Domestic Growth  Airbus SAS, the world’s largest planemaker, said last month
it may win orders from Chinese carriers in coming months as the
economic recovery spurs demand for travel. Passenger numbers in
China have jumped 18 percent this year amid domestic growth and
an international recovery in business and leisure travel.  Osaka Titanium will reach full production in the second
half of the year ending March 31 and expand capacity in the next
fiscal year, Nishizawa said. The cost of titanium ore is rising
more than anticipated as demand increases in China and suppliers
reopen suspended mines, he said.  The company’s overseas customers include  Titanium Metals
Corp. , the Dallas-based supplier of the metal to Boeing. Osaka
Titanium also supplies titanium sponge to shareholders  Sumitomo
Metal Industries Ltd.  and  Kobe Steel Ltd.   “Raw material prices are going up and we need to prepare
for production facilities and arrange for workers in advance,”
Nishizawa, 62, said yesterday in the interview in Tokyo. The
company is likely to settle higher contract prices with “most
customers,” he said.  Osaka Titanium plans to produce at an annual rate of about
27,000 metric tons of titanium sponge in the six months through
March 2011, 50 percent more than the 18,000 tons in the first
half, Nishizawa said. It will likely raise output by 30 percent
to 35,000 tons in the following fiscal year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasumasa Song  in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 