-- Gordon Is Talking With Senators on Rare-Earths Bill
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-26T21:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/house-s-gordon-is-talking-with-senators-on-rare-earths-bill-after-election.html
U.S. House Science and Technology
Committee Chairman  Bart Gordon  said today he is talking to
senators in an effort to convince them to pass a measure on
rare-earth elements shortly after the Nov. 2 election.  Gordon, a Tennessee Democrat, told a conference in
Washington that the only way to get legislation this year
boosting U.S. mining and production would be if the Senate
clears the version that the House passed on Sept. 29. To do that
in the short lame-duck session would require that no senator
object to sending the bill to the president, he said.  China, the source of more than 90 percent of the world’s
rare earths, announced a 72 percent cut in second-half export
quotas, drawing concern about supplies from Germany, Japan and
the U.S. In addition, Chinese customs officials are delaying
shipments by various means, such as imposing extra inspections,
according to industry participants who spoke on condition of
anonymity because of concern about Chinese reaction.  “China’s latest actions have underscored our vulnerability
once again,” Rep.  Dan Lipinski , an Illinois Democrat, said in a
statement today.  The rare earths, a group of 17 metals including neodymium,
lanthanum, cerium and europium, have industrial and national-
security uses, such as in petroleum refining, fiber-optic
transmission, computer disk drives, and military radar and
missile-guidance systems.  National Stockpile  The U.S. should stockpile rare earths and other critical
materials, boost research in technologies that reduce the need
for the metals and increase recycling of rare earths, Lipinski
said.  “I also believe that we should take advantage of next
month’s G-20 meeting in South Korea to directly address concerns
about China’s rare-earth policy, and to seek common ground with
other impacted countries such as Germany and Japan,” he said.  The Obama administration is “monitoring” reports about
cuts in rear-earth exports by China, White House press secretary
Robert Gibbs said today.  The U.S. “wouldn’t hesitate” to raise the issue at the
G-20 summit if it is something that top security and economic
officials think is necessary, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  