-- Owens-Illinois Seizure by Chavez May Undermine Venezuela's Empresas Polar
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-10-26T19:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/owens-illinois-seizure-by-chavez-may-undermine-empresas-polar.html
Venezuela’s plan to expropriate the
local unit of glassmaker Owens-Illinois Inc. may undermine
Empresas Polar SA, the South American country’s largest company
and a frequent target of President  Hugo Chavez ’s criticism.  The takeover will weaken closely held Polar, Venezuela’s
biggest beer and food producer, by putting its supply chain
under government control, said Rafael Alfonzo, president of
Caracas-based researcher Cedice. Combined with the expropriation
earlier this month of Agroislena C.A. Sucesora de Enrique Fraga
Afonso, Venezuela’s biggest farm-supply business, the move gives
Chavez significant sway over Polar, Alfonzo said.  “The expropriation of Owens-Illinois is part of a
government project to create a food hegemony and the total
takeover of the food supply,” Alfonzo said in a phone
interview. “If you control the supply chain, there is no need
to take control of a company like Polar.”  Chavez’s takeovers are deepening a socialist revolution
that has led to the nationalization of oil companies, fertilizer
makers, food processors and more than 6 million acres (2.5
million hectares) of farms and ranches. In June, Chavez declared
“an economic war” on the “bourgeoisie,” singling out Polar
owner  Lorenzo Mendoza  for allegedly manipulating its employees
and trying to undermine the government.  Shares in  Owens-Illinois , the world’s largest producer of
glass containers, fell the most in three months in the U.S.
after Chavez announced the expropriation last night, citing the
Perrysburg, Ohio-based  company  for “exploiting workers.”  ‘Expropriate It’  “The expropriation is already ready of this glass
company,” Chavez said in comments carried on state television.
“What’s it called? Owens-Illinois. Expropriate it.”  Chavez blames capitalism for the highest inflation rate
among 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg and a recession that’s
continued even as neighbors Brazil and Argentina post growth.
The drive to construct a socialist economy has resulted in
international arbitration cases with Exxon Mobil Corp.,
ConocoPhillips and Mexican cement maker Cemex SAB.  Chavez devalued the bolivar for the first time since 2005
in January and created a multi-tiered exchange system as he
struggled to close a budget deficit and slow capital flight. The
devaluation hurt Owens-Illinois by reducing its revenue in
dollar terms, said  Chip Dillon , a paper and packaging analyst
for Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.  The expropriation “gets rid of an uncertain element” for
the company, Dillon said.  Owens-Illinois makes beer bottles, water bottles and
containers for baby food and perfume, among other products.
Polar is a “major customer,”  Stephanie Johnston , an Owens-
Illinois spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview today.  Polar spokeswoman Ivana de Guerrero declined to comment.  1,000 Employees  The military arrived at the glass company’s Los Guayos
factory early this morning,  Johnston  said. The Los Guayos site
and a plant in Valera employ 1,000 people and account for less
than 5 percent of Owens-Illinois’s global segment operating
profit. Both are still operating, Johnston said.  Owens-Illinois  declined  $1.48, or 5 percent, to $28.14 at
3:09 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after
touching $26.86, for the biggest intraday percentage drop since
July 29. The  shares  lost 9.9 percent this year before today.  Owens-Illinois said in an e-mailed statement today it was
surprised to learn of the decision and is willing to work with
the government “to better understand the situation.”  Owens-Illinois has been operating in Venezuela for more
than 50 years and provides glass bottles to customers including
Nestle SA, PepsiCo Inc., Anheuser-Busch InBev NV and Diageo Plc.  Worker Protest  Johnston said Owens-Illinois is committed to complying with
Venezuelan law.  Employees of Owens-Illinois at the Los Guayos plant in
Carabobo protested the expropriation, newspaper El Carabobeno
reported. Union leader Rigoberto Mendez said employees at the
plant were happy with working conditions.  “We are going to defend the company to the last,” Mendez
said in comments carried on Globovision. “We want our right to
work to be respected.”  Chavez also squeezed Polar out of minority stakes in
ventures with Casino Guichard Perrachon SA this year and the
fertilizer maker Fertinitro, which the company operated along
with U.S. chemicals company Koch Industries Inc.  Polar, whose president Mendoza was named Venezuela’s
second-wealthiest man this year by Forbes magazine with a
fortune of $3.5 billion, also runs a venture with PepsiCo Inc.
and makes Harina P.A.N., the staple corn flour to make arepas,
the flat cakes that are a staple of the Venezuelan diet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  