-- Owens-Illinois Drops as Chavez Orders Expropriation
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2010-10-26T20:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/owens-illinois-declines-after-venezuela-s-chavez-orders-unit-expropriation.html
Owens-Illinois Inc ., the world’s
largest producer of glass containers, fell the most in five
weeks in U.S. trading after Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
ordered a government takeover of the company’s local unit.  The military arrived at the company’s Los Guayos factory,
 Stephanie Johnston , an Owens-Illinois spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview today. Los Guayos and a plant in Valera
employ 1,000 people and account for less than 5 percent of
Owens-Illinois’s global segment operating profit. Both are still
operating, Johnston said.  Chavez is deepening a socialist revolution after his party
suffered a setback in legislative elections Sept. 26, leading to
the nationalization of oil companies, fertilizer makers, food
processors and more than 6 million acres (2.5 million hectares)
of farms and ranches. Perrysburg, Ohio-based  Owens-Illinois 
“has been exploiting workers” and is on a list of companies
the government plans to take over, Chavez said yesterday.  “The expropriation is already ready of this glass
company,” Chavez said in comments carried on state television.
“What’s it called? Owens-Illinois. Expropriate it.”  Owens-Illinois  declined  $1.72, or 5.8 percent, to $27.90 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest daily drop since Sept. 21. The  shares  have fallen
15 percent this year.  ‘Forced Acquisition’  Owens-Illinois said in an e-mailed statement today it was
surprised to learn of the decision and is willing to work with
the government “to better understand the situation.”  Owens-Illinois has been operating in Venezuela for more
than 50 years and provides glass bottles to customers in the
nation including Nestle SA, PepsiCo Inc., Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV and Diageo Plc. Owens-Illinois hasn’t been officially
notified of the expropriation and is reaching out now to the
government, according to the statement.  In response to Chavez’s comments on the exploitation of
workers, Johnston said Owens-Illinois is committed to complying
with Venezuelan law.  Chavez on Oct. 5 announced the “forced acquisition” of
the country’s leading farm-supply business, Agroislena C.A.
Sucesora de Enrique Fraga Afonso, and on Oct. 10 ordered the
nationalization of fertilizer companies Fertilizantes
Nitrogenados de Oriente and Fertilizantes Nitrogenados de
Venezuela. Chavez yesterday said any private bank that refuses
to give credit to small businesses will also be nationalized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
 Charlie Devereux  in London at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Millard at 
 mmillard2@bloomberg.net . 