-- Toyota, Honda `Dominate' Consumer Reports Reliability Survey
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-26T19:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/toyota-ties-with-honda-to-dominate-consumer-reports-reliability-survey.html
Toyota Motor Corp. , which has
recalled more than 10 million vehicles in the past year, tied
with Honda Motor Co. for the most models with top scores in
Consumer Reports’ annual reliability survey.  Toyota and Honda each led in five categories and continue
to “dominate” the ratings, the Yonkers, New York-based
magazine said in a statement today.  Ford Motor Co.  was the only
U.S. automaker with top scores, in two categories. General
Motors Co. improved the most among the domestic companies.  Most of the recalls at Toyota, the world’s largest
automaker, followed reports of sudden, unintended acceleration,
which caused the company to slow its vehicle-development process
and scrutinize suppliers. Toyota’s U.S. market share fell 1.4
percentage points to 15.2 percent this year through September,
according to Autodata Corp. in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.  “There’s a difference between actually having problems and
having your car recalled,”  Jake Fisher , senior automotive
engineer at Consumer Reports’ vehicle test center, said in a
telephone interview. “While the recalls were widespread, the
actual problems people were having associated with those recalls
were much smaller.”  Consumer Reports based its findings on responses of
subscribers who owned or leased 1.3 million cars and trucks.  For Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota, the Yaris small car,
FJ Cruiser mid-size sport-utility vehicle, Lexus LX luxury SUV,
Sienna minivan with V-6 engine and front-wheel drive and Tundra
full-size pickup truck led in Consumer Reports’ categories.  Tokyo-based Honda’s top scorers were the front-wheel-drive
Acura TL for upscale cars, Acura RL luxury car, CR-V small SUV,
Acura RDX upscale compact SUV and Ridgeline compact pickup.  Cadillac, Chevrolet Gains  For Detroit-based GM’s Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet and GMC
brands, 69 percent had at least average reliability. Cadillac
rose seven places from a year earlier, the biggest improvement,
and the percentage of Chevrolet models with average or better
reliability increased to 83 percent from 50 percent.  “We’ve freed up our engineers to focus on making great
vehicles,” Dan Nicholson, GM’s vice president of global
quality, said in a telephone interview. “We’re not going to be
happy until every single model is a recommended one.”  Ford’s Category Leaders  Ford, which today reported record third-quarter profit of
$1.69 billion, won top scores for its Fusion Hybrid family car
and Flex EcoBoost large SUV. Consumer Reports said 90 percent of
the Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s models had at least
average reliability.  “We’ve standardized our processes in all of our plants, in
the way we look at and solve problems, and build and design our
vehicles,” Mike Hardie, Ford’s director of quality and
productivity planning, said in a telephone interview.  None of Chrysler Group LLC’s vehicles scored above average,
and 12 of the 20 models for which enough data were available for
a rating were below average, the magazine said.  Three European luxury brands,  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi,
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s BMW and  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-
Benz, scored among the worst this year, Consumer Reports said.
Almost three-fourths of Audi models and about half of BMW and
Mercedes vehicles were rated below average, the magazine said.  “Luxury vehicles today are filled with electronics, power
equipment and new, leading-edge technologies that often don’t
work that well,” Consumer Reports’ Fisher said.  Porsche SE’s Boxster had the best score, and the Audi A6
3.0T and Tata Motors Ltd.’s Jaguar XF had the worst, according
to the magazine’s statement.  Consumer Reports, published by the nonprofit advocacy group
Consumers Union, surveyed magazine or  online  subscribers earlier
this year. Each vehicle is evaluated 50 different ways, from
handling to fuel economy to seat comfort, the magazine said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  