-- Toyota May Revise Yen-Dollar Exchange Assumption for Earnings, Toyoda Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2010-10-26T19:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/toyota-may-revise-currency-assumption-for-earnings-toyoda-says.html
Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s
largest automaker, will likely revise its currency assumption
for its full-year profit forecast to about 80 yen to the U.S.
dollar from 90 yen, President  Akio Toyoda  said.  “I feel an extreme sense of crisis” because of the
strengthening currency, Toyoda told TV Tokyo in an interview
late yesterday.  Even as the Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker boosts
overseas auto assembly to reduce negative currency impact
from exports,  Toyota  plans to maintain annual domestic
production of about 3 million cars, he said. Toyota built
3.2 million cars in Japan last fiscal year out of 7.3 million
units worldwide.  The strengthening Japanese currency reduces the value of
repatriated  profits  from exports. The yen, near a 15-year high,
has gained 15 percent against the dollar and about 13 percent
against the euro since the April 1 start of Toyota’s fiscal
year. The yen traded at 81.53 to the dollar on Oct. 26 in
New York.  “The strong yen is clearly going to have an impact on
earnings,” said  Efraim Levy , automotive equity analyst at
Standard & Poor’s in New York. “Whether 80 yen is the
appropriate level or not, that really comes down to where you
think it’s going to go.” He rates Toyota’s American depositary
receipts a “buy.”  Nissan Considers Revision  Nissan Motor Co. Chief Operating Officer  Toshiyuki Shiga 
said yesterday that that carmaker probably also will revise its
currency assumption for the second half of the fiscal year
because the yen is stronger than an earlier estimate.  The Yokohama, Japan-based company may also stop exports of
some models from Japan and use more locally sourced parts at
overseas plants to combat the strong yen, he said.  Toyota will announce second-quarter  earnings  on Nov. 5. In
August, the carmaker raised its net income forecast for the year
ending in March to 340 billion yen ($4.18 billion) from an
earlier estimate of 310 billion yen.  Toyota fell 27 yen, or 0.9 percent, to 2866 yen in Tokyo
Stock Exchange trading yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  