-- Pay Will Be Capped at All Banks to Receive State Aid, CDU's Kauder Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-26T15:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/pay-will-be-capped-at-all-banks-to-receive-state-aid-cdu-s-kauder-says.html
Compensation for staff at all German
banks that receive state aid will be capped from 2011, said
 Volker Kauder , the parliamentary leader of Germany’s ruling
Christian Democratic bloc.  Pay for all staff at  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG , the
Munich-based bank taken over by the government last year, will
be capped at 500,000 euros ($694,600) with no bonuses payable,
Kauder told reporters in Berlin today. Bonuses that were
accumulated before the bank was taken over will be “collected”
and paid out once the bank is completely independent, he said.  “There can be no bonuses for Hypo Real Estate workers as
long as the government has a stake in the bank,” said Kauder, a
member of Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s CDU party. That will also
apply to any bank in which the state takes a 75 percent stake or
more, he said.  Merkel’s coalition, which trails the opposition in polls,
is stepping up efforts to target bankers’ pay amid public
outrage over a perceived widening gap between rich and poor.
Hypo Real Estate said last month that it had awarded bonuses in
2009 worth 25 million euros, just as the government announced
that long-term welfare recipients will get an extra monthly
allowance of 5 euros.  Banks Reach ‘Limit’  The  BDB banking lobby  said yesterday that financial
institutions have “reached their limit” in terms of adhering
to government regulations and that Germany as a financial center
is at risk.  “We, the undersigned, have the utmost concern that German
banks can no longer be internationally competitive as a result
of the measures which are often being decided by German
politicians unilaterally,” the BDB said in a statement signed
by  Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  and
 Commerzbank AG  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing .  For banks such as Commerzbank and WestLB AG, where the
government’s stake is 75 percent or less, bonuses will be
possible as long as total annual pay doesn’t exceed 500,000
euros, Kauder said.  If banks pay the agreed interest on government aid or if
they have repaid 50 percent of the total aid amount, bonuses
will be possible again, Kauder said. The regulations were agreed
by Merkel’s coalition and have been implemented by parliament’s
finance committee, he said.  Soffin Funds  The Soffin bank rescue fund, set up in 2008 to keep
Germany’s financial system afloat during the crisis, guaranteed
174.5 billion euros in liabilities and injected 29.3 billion
euros in cash into Commerzbank, Hypo Real Estate, Aareal Bank AG
and WestLB as of Sept. 30, Soffin said on its Web site.  Germany has already enacted caps on bonuses of 500,000
euros for executive-board members at institutions that receive
government funds. A clause in the law governing the Soffin bank-
rescue fund obliges those banks to pay managers an amount that’s
“adequate” to their performance.  The Finance Ministry on Oct. 4 said it’s examining ways to
cap variable compensation for the highest-paid managers below
executive-board level. Sixty-eight managers at the four banks
earn more than 500,000 euros per year, Der  Spiegel magazine 
reported earlier this month, citing an internal Soffin document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  