-- Peruvian Central Bank May Raise Interest Rate on Inflation, Bayly Says
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-10-26T21:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/peruvian-central-bank-may-raise-interest-rate-on-inflation-bayly-says.html
The Peruvian central bank may raise
its benchmark  reference rate  twice more this year to contain
inflation,  said  Walter Bayly , the head of the country’s largest
financial-services company,  Credicorp Ltd .  Peru’s surging growth has spurred a 30 percent jump in
consumer and small business loans this year, Bayly, the
company’s chief operating officer, said in an Oct. 25 telephone
interview from New York.  “The bank will probably raise the rate a couple more
times, but with smaller hikes than earlier this year,” Bayly
said. “We’re going to see more  inflation .”  The central bank raised its reference rate five times this
year as Peru’s  economic growth , the fastest among the region’s
major economies according to the International Monetary Fund,
risks sparking inflation pressures. Inflation may accelerate 2.5
percent to 2.6 percent this year, within policy makers’ 1
percent to 3 percent target range,  Renzo Rossini , the central
bank’s general manager, said Oct. 14.  Peru’s economic growth unexpectedly accelerated in August
on a surge in manufacturing as domestic demand rebounds and the
country boosts exports of metals, textiles and food. Domestic
demand for goods and services grew at the fastest pace since
May, led by private investment, according to the central bank.  The  economy  may grow faster than the government’s earlier
estimates of 7 percent this year, Deputy Economy Minister  Carlos Casas  said Oct. 24.  Higher Prices  Rising prices for imported commodities such as wheat and
sugar may fuel food price inflation, said  Roberto Flores , an
economist at Lima-based brokerage Inteligo SAB, who expects
consumer prices to rise 2.7 percent this year.  Peru is a net importer of crude oil, soybean, corn, wheat
and sugar, all of which have risen at least 22 percent since
late May.  Peru’s sol fell 0.1 percent to 2.7944 per U.S. dollar at
4:45 p.m. New York time, from 2.7930 yesterday. The currency has
gained 3.3 percent this year.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 8.6 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2017 rose 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 4.86 percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local
unit.  The central bank doubled the marginal reserve requirement
for foreign banks’ deposits in the country last month after
rising rates triggered capital inflows that pushed the sol to a
two-year high.  Peru’s banking regulator said this month it plans to limit
local banks’ net positions in dollar forwards to 25 percent of
their assets, or 500 million soles ($179 million), as part of
measures to prevent surging inflows from destabilizing the sol.  “The measures don’t involve dramatic limits,” Bayly said.
“It’s good for the country to prevent a sudden devaluation of
the dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  