-- Petrobras $70 Billion Stock Offering Caused Investor 'Unease,' Fraga Says
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-10-26T18:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/petrobras-share-offering-caused-uneasiness-brazil-s-fraga-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA ’s $70 billion
offering, which diluted minority shareholders’ ownership after
the government used oil to pay for stock in the state-run
company, caused “uneasiness” among foreign investors, former
central banker  Arminio Fraga  said.  Investors are also concerned that the use of more flexible
accounting standards by the government may prompt increased
spending, said Fraga, the former  George Soros  fund manager who
founded Gavea Investimentos in 2003 after four years as Brazil’s
 central bank president .  “When the investors I’ve been talking to look at Brazil,
they ask ‘what’s all this?’,” he told an audience at an event
in Rio de Janeiro today.  Petrobras paid 50 percent above the “fair” value when it
acquired 5 billion barrels of deepwater reserves from Brazil’s
government in exchange for $42.5 billion of stock last month,
Credit Suisse analyst  Emerson Leite  said in a report Oct. 13.
He cut Petrobras’  rating  to “neutral” from “outperform” on
concern the offering will dilute earnings per share and that the
purchase of government reserves was “expensive.”  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $34 billion as executive
chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd., said in an
interview on Sept. 24 that the Petrobras stock sale was an
“abomination” that treated minority shareholders unfairly.  Fraga also said the “increasingly aggressive use” of
state-owned banks to finance projects in Brazil reduces the
transparency of government spending.  Primary Surplus  The government booked the purchase of oil reserves by
Petrobras as a 32 billion-real ($19 billion) contribution to the
central government’s primary surplus last month. The government
also books investments in its growth acceleration program as
part of the primary result, which allows it to increase
infrastructure spending without threatening its surplus target.  Brazil targets savings of 3.3 percent of gross domestic
product to pay interest on its debt, a so-called primary
surplus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  