-- TPG Capital's Russian Chief Leaves to Join Dubai's Delta Investment Firm
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2010-10-26T20:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/tpg-capital-s-russian-chief-leaves-to-join-dubai-s-delta-investment-firm.html
TPG Capital’s head of Russia and
central and eastern Europe,  Geoffrey Fink , left to join an
investment firm in Dubai.  Fink, 41, moved to Dubai this month to join  Delta Partners
Group  and start an emerging markets fund, he said in a telephone
interview yesterday. Pavel Melnikov, a TPG spokesman in Moscow,
declined to comment on Fink’s departure or successor.  Fink had been in his post since 2008 and said he worked on
the firm’s purchase of a 35 percent stake in retailer OOO Lenta
last year. TPG and  VTB Capital , part of Russia’s second-largest
bank, are locked in a dispute with Lenta’s biggest shareholder,
 August Meyer . Meyer is trying to oust the retailer’s chief
executive officer, who is backed by TPG, VTB and the  European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development , which owns 11 percent
of Lenta.  “Russia has a set of challenges,” Fink said. “Some of
which are common for the emerging markets. Some are more
specific to Russia, such as the structure of the business groups
in Russia, in terms of how one has to navigate the legal and
political systems, which requires a certain familiarity with the
Russian market.”  Meyer, who owns 41 percent of the retailer, has sought to
replace Lenta CEO  Jan Dunning  with shareholder Sergei Yuschenko.
The dispute led to scuffles last month, when Dunning used
private guards to forcibly enter Lenta’s St. Petersburg
headquarters. TPG, VTB Capital and the EBRD have all said they
don’t recognize Yuschenko’s appointment. Meyer didn’t answer a
call to his mobile phone.  Fink said he moved to Delta because it was a “chance to do
something entrepreneurial and the prospect of leading the
development of a new fund for a company like Delta was very
attractive.” He declined to comment on Lenta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague  jagomez@bloomberg.net  