-- Fleece-Maker Polartec Said to Seek Buyer in $200 Million Sale
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/polartec-is-said-to-seek-a-buyer-in-200-million-sale-of-polarfleece-maker.html
Polartec LLC’s parent, Versa Capital
Management, is seeking a buyer for the century-old maker of the
Polarfleece material, according to two people with knowledge of
the matter.  Versa is seeking about $200 million, said one of the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.
Moelis & Co. is advising on the sale, the people said. A
spokeswoman for Versa declined to comment.  Founded in 1906 as Malden Knitting, Polartec made military
uniforms and other woolen clothes before expanding into
synthetic fabrics. In 1979, the Lawrence, Massachusetts-based
apparel maker debuted  Polarfleece , later named one of the 100
most important inventions of the 20th century by Time magazine,
according to the company’s website.  Polarfleece is meant to mimic wool, only lighter. The
material is used in jackets, sweaters and shorts. Retailers
including Polo Ralph Lauren market clothing using the fabric.  Versa, a Philadelphia-based investment firm formerly known
as Chrysalis Capital Partners, acquired Polartec in 2007 after
the clothing maker filed for bankruptcy protection. The filing
was the second since a 1995 fire destroyed the company’s factory
in Lawrence, according to legal documents.  After the fire, then-Chief Executive Officer  Aaron Feuerstein  continued to pay employees for months while the
company rebuilt, according to the legal documents. The move
earned him national attention, including a “60 Minutes”
profile that dubbed him “The Mensch of Malden.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  