-- Poland Increases Price Ceiling for Warsaw Exchange IPO by 7% to 46 Zloty
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-26T12:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/poland-lifts-price-limit-in-warsaw-exchange-ipo-to-46-zloty-terms-show.html
Poland increased the upper end of
the price range in the initial public offering of  the Warsaw
Stock Exchange , the first emerging European bourse operator to
go public, according to sale terms obtained by Bloomberg News.  The government is selling shares in the country’s sole
stock exchange to institutional investors at 36 zloty to 46
zloty each, a 7 percent increase in the upper limit from the
maximum price for individual investors, according to the terms.
The IPO is part of a plan to raise 25 billion zloty ($8.9
billion) this year to help finance the government’s budget gap.  “There must be big demand for the shares as the company is
an attractive asset, and so they’re trying to sell it at a
higher price,” said  Marcin Materna , head of equity research at
Bank Millennium SA. “This is probably unprecedented in Poland
as I can’t remember the government raising an IPO price as the
sale is still going on.”  Demand for shares is “above average,”  Ludwik Sobolewski ,
the chief executive officer of the Warsaw bourse, said during a
conference call with reporters, declining to give figures for
the new price range.  The Polish exchange has a market capitalization of $190
billion, making it the third-largest in emerging Europe after
markets in Russia and Turkey. It has expanded faster than any
other exchange in the region, more than doubling the number of
traded companies and almost tripling daily turnover in the past
decade, according to  its website .  Poland, which has sold stakes in the nation’s biggest
insurance, energy, copper and phone companies this year, has had
the highest number of IPOs annually in central Europe since at
least 2004, Bloomberg data show. Fifty-eight IPOs have raised
$4.36 billion in 2010, the largest coming from state-owned
insurer  PZU SA  and energy utility  Tauron Polska Energia SA .  PZU, Tauron  PZU  shares have jumped 19 percent from their April sale
price and Tauron has climbed 25 percent since the government
sold a stake in June. The benchmark  WIG20 Index  fell 0.8 percent
today, trimming this year’s gain to 9.7 percent.  Maciej Wewior , a spokesman for the Treasury Ministry,
declined to comment on the price range when contacted by phone
today. He reiterated earlier statements that “in theory” the
price at which the government will sell shares to institutions
may be higher than for individual investors.  The maximum price for retail investors, who can buy as much
as 30 percent of 26.8 million shares being sold in the IPO, was
set at 43 zloty a share and cannot be increased, according to
the prospectus.  Bookbuilding  The government, which is selling 64 percent of the bourse,
will continue bookbuilding, or taking share orders, from
institutional investors until Oct. 28, and is due to announce
the final price by Oct. 29. Bookbuilding was shortened by four
hours, to end at 1 p.m. local time on Oct. 28, the bourse said
on its website today.  Based on the maximum offer price for individuals, the
Warsaw exchange would be valued at 17.9 times its 2010 net
income, compared with a median ratio of 16.9 for 19 world
exchanges, according to ING Groep NV estimates on Oct. 22.  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and UBS AG are the global coordinators of the bourse’s
offering. Ipopema Securities SA, KBC Groep NV, Societe Generale
SA, PKO Bank Polski SA, Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA, Alior Bank
SA, Banc Espirito Santo SA, IDM SA and Wood & Co. are helping
manage the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Haigh  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net 
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  