-- Poland May Keep Rates at Record Low as Belka Outweighs Inflation Concern
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2010-10-26T07:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/poland-may-keep-rates-at-record-low-as-belka-outweighs-inflation-concern.html
Poland’s central bank will probably
reject a motion to raise interest rates for a third straight
month as Governor  Marek Belka ’s warnings that capital inflows
may undermine economic growth outweigh concern about inflation.  The Monetary Policy Council will keep its benchmark  seven-
day reference rate  at a record-low 3.5 percent after a two-day
meeting that begins today, according to 11 of 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. With seven economists forecasting a rate
increase, this is the first time analysts haven’t been unanimous
since the panel stopped cutting rates in June 2009.  “This month, Belka’s vote will be decisive,” said  Ernest Pytlarczyk , an economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw. “But with
output growth stabilizing at high levels and inflationary
pressure strengthening, the council can’t avoid beginning the
tightening” cycle in coming months, he said.  Belka, chief of the International Monetary Fund’s European
department until he was named governor in May, has cautioned
that raising rates will increase inflows as the European Central
Bank keeps borrowing costs low and investors chase higher
returns. That may cause the zloty to appreciate, making Polish
goods more expensive and damping the export-led recovery.  The zloty has strengthened 2.3 percent against the euro in
the past three months, the third-biggest gain among 31 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The Polish currency fell 0.2
percent to 3.9371 per euro as of 9:56 a.m. in Warsaw.  “With this ocean of liquidity around us, we have to be
worried about the interest-rate disparity between Polish rates
and global rates, especially European rates,” Belka, 58, said 
in an Oct. 9 interview with the Wall Street Journal. “We have
to factor in our monetary policy this difference which of 
course induces the inflow of capital.”  Inflation Accelerates  The ECB has kept its benchmark refinancing rate at 1
percent since May 2009. In the U.S., where the benchmark rate is
almost zero, the Federal Reserve says it may make further asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing, to boost growth.  Some members of Poland’s 10-member Monetary Policy Council
sought a half percentage-point increase at rate-setting meetings
in August and September, arguing that record-low rates were no
longer appropriate as economic growth accelerates after the
global financial crisis.  The central bank forecasts  Poland’s economy  may expand 4.6
percent next year, after slowing to a decade-low 1.8 percent in
2009. The annual inflation rate rose to 2.5 percent last month,
exceeding analyst estimates and reaching the mid-point of the
bank’s target range, the statistics office reported Oct. 13.  Estimates Revised  Some economists estimate inflation may accelerate to 3
percent by year-end and top 3.5 percent, the upper end of the
bank’s target range, in 2011.  “We expect inflation to exceed the central bank’s target
in October and to continue growing in coming months,” said
 Jaroslaw Janecki , chief economist at Societe Generale SA in
Warsaw. “Assuming that the majority of the council shifts to a
forward-looking strategy after seeing the inflation report,
monetary tightening in October is quite likely.”  At least two members of the rate-setting panel have spoken
publicly about the need to raise rates, with  Andrzej Bratkowski 
calling for a “visible, at least 50-basis point raise.”  “The hawks are becoming increasingly vocal,” said  David Oxley , an economist at London-based Capital Economics. “We
still think they will remain in the minority, for now at least,
not least because Governor Belka remains relatively dovish.”  Belka Tightens Grip  Belka, who holds the tie-breaking vote on the rate-setting
panel, has called on policy makers to reduce their public
comments so the central bank can speak with one voice and
deliver clear signals to the financial markets.  In addition to Bratkowski, three council members have
commented on economic data since the Oct. 13 inflation report.  Andrzej Kazmierczak  confirmed his preference for keeping
rates unchanged by telling the PAP newswire that “higher
inflation doesn’t mean an automatic rate increase.”  Anna Zielinska-Glebocka  and  Elzbieta Chojna-Duch , seen as swing
votes, didn’t give an indication of how they may vote.  The central bank’s new inflation forecast will be crucial
for the next rate decision, Chojna-Duch said Oct. 15 at a
conference in Warsaw.  “The data show that consumer prices are still in a gradual
rising trend,” Zielinska-Glebocka said Oct. 13. “There is
still a large degree of uncertainty about the price outlook.”  Investors are betting the central bank is more likely to
raise rates in November than this month. One-month forward-rate
agreements are trading at 3.97 percent, or 13 basis points more
than the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate of 3.84
percent. The price for two-month contract is 4.0750 percent,
giving a premium of 26 basis points above Wibor.  “There is a majority of members who have been sitting on
the fence,” said  Pasquale Diana , an economists at Morgan
Stanley in London. “The divergence of their opinions, the
fairly relaxed rhetoric of some members and above all the
prospect of quantitative easing elsewhere have increased the
risks that rates may be left on hold for a while longer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  