-- Polymetal CEO Uses Mining Technology, Merrill Background to Double Returns
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-10-26T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/polymetal-ceo-uses-technology-merrill-history-to-double-returns.html
OAO Polymetal ’s  Vitaly Nesis , who
doubled his company’s value to make it the best performer in
gold mining across Europe, Asia and Africa, says he can do it
all again by bringing new mining methods to Russia.  Nesis, 34, a Merrill Lynch banker before he became
Polymetal’s chief executive officer, has  pledged  to hand out
more than half a billion dollars’ worth of share options to
senior managers and directors if they can add about $6 billion
to the company’s market value by 2013. “The goal is to double
Polymetal’s value to $12 billion,” he said in an interview.  Nesis’s goals rely on him introducing so-called autoclave
machines to recover gold from ore that can’t be processed using
conventional methods, and a shipment network for raw materials.
He aims to boost output to 1.4 million gold-equivalent ounces
from 800,000 ounces in 2010 and may make St. Petersburg-based
Polymetal one of the world’s 10 biggest gold miners, Nesis said.  “This technology is Polymetal’s ticket to the major
league,” said  Olga Okuneva , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
Moscow. “The key to Polymetal’s investment case is whether the
company can successfully apply the autoclave technology.”  Polymetal, Russia’s third-biggest miner of gold and silver
combined, is following Barrick Gold Corp., the largest producer
of the metal, and  Newmont Mining Corp.  in using autoclaves. The
machines combine heat and pressure, known as pressure oxidation,
to assist extraction from so-called refractory ores that are
more difficult to process than typical gold-bearing rocks.  Plug ‘N’ Play  “It’s not like a mill you can just build, plug in and let
go,” said GFMS World Gold Ltd. Managing Director  Paul Burton ,
who has been involved in the mining industry for more than 30
years. “The autoclave is expensive to put in and expensive to
run. It consumes a lot of energy and needs large throughputs.”  The difficulty of getting this type of machine, previously
used in Russia to process uranium, to operate on schedule and at
full production, and the need to deliver raw materials over long
distances, risk overturning Nesis’s estimates. Only seven plants
in the world currently employ the technology to recover gold,
with two new operations planned in the next 18 months, Linus
Sylwestrzak, technical manager at the Leaching Centre of
Excellence at Bateman Engineering NV, said Oct. 21 by e-mail. A
further eight operations have used autoclaves in the past and
since closed after they exhausted their sources of ore.  Cost Threat  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd.  said July 28 that “minesite”
costs at its Kittila mine in Finland rose in the second quarter
from a year earlier, partly because of autoclave repairs that
also reduced the availability of its mill for processing ore.
President  Ebe Scherkus  told the Denver Gold Forum in September
it was “cautiously optimistic” problems with rates of recovery
at Kittila had been resolved, Mining Weekly reported Sept. 22.  Pressure oxidation has “typically a greater lead time for
construction,” and higher capital and maintenance costs than
the bio-oxidation and roasting alternatives, Sylwestrzak said.
Advantages may include improved gold recovery rates, an absence
of sulfur dioxide emissions and less arsenic content in the
final residue, he said.  Unlike rival operators of Russian mines such as OAO Polyus
Gold and  Petropavlovsk Plc  that typically process ore near their
mines, Polymetal’s plans require shipping the raw material
hundreds or thousands of kilometers to processing hubs. Nesis
will also need to ensure these supply routes aren’t interrupted.  “I borrowed this idea from Newmont while touring their
facilities in Nevada,” he said. The system will allow Polymetal
to exploit deposits such as Mayskoye across the Bering Strait
from Alaska that others would consider unprofitable, he said.  Something Borrowed  Polymetal plans to ship gold concentrate 4,800 kilometers
(3,000 miles) south from Mayskoye to process it at the Amursk
hub that’s scheduled to begin operations next year, Nesis said.  “This might seem unusual but it is fully justified
economically,” he said. “Nobody’s surprised Chile, the world’s
largest copper producer, ships across the globe to East Asia.”  Nesis, who says his two years as an analyst for Merrill in
New York helps him communicate with investors, is staking the
future of his company and the stock-related payouts of his
management team on achieving his goals. About 70 senior managers
will be eligible for more than $500 million of  bonuses  if they
meet his goal of doubling the company’s share price to $35.  The prospect of further output gains has already returned
91 percent for investors in Polymetal’s London stock this year.
That’s the best performance among precious metal miners with a
market value of at least $1 billion, outside of Canada’s Andean
Resources Ltd., Semafo Inc., High River Gold Mines Ltd. and
European Goldfields Ltd., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Know Your Enemy  Even with the collapse in global stock markets during the
2008 financial crisis, Polymetal  shares  are up 117 percent since
the company listed in London in February 2007.  Nesis is seeking to lure new money managers, including
pension funds that have limits on the kinds of companies they
can buy such as those based in Russia, by changing Polymetal’s
base to the U.K. That may widen the pool of investors from the
current crop focusing on the emerging and gold markets, he said.  “That I worked in an investment bank is surely helpful,”
Nesis said, even as he describes as “dull and hard work” his
time at Merrill. “Two years in the bank taught me the basic
instruments -- multiples, discounted cash flows, how the banks
work. It’s good to know the enemy’s language.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 