-- Transnet First-Half Profit Rises 35% After Coal, Iron Ore Volumes Increase
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-10-26T09:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ports-rail-operator-transnet-s-first-half-revenue-climbs-to-2-7-billion.html
Transnet Ltd., South Africa’s state-
owned operator of ports and freight rail services, said first-
half profit rose 35 percent after improved productivity
permitted it to transport record volumes of coal and iron ore.  Net income in the six months ended Sept. 30 climbed to 1.71
billion rand ($250 million) compared with 1.27 billion rand a
year earlier, the Johannesburg-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. Revenue rose 8 percent to 18.7 billion rand.  “The focus on productivity, volume increases and excellent
savings on costs are the reasons for these great results,”
acting Chief Executive Officer  Chris Wells  said in an interview
in Johannesburg today. “We are confident that continued
improvement is expected in the next six months,” Transnet said
in its statement.  The company has been handling an annualized 70 million
metric tons of coal in recent weeks, compared with less than 62
million tons in the past two years, Wells said. Growth of coal
volumes this year may reach 7 percent, he said.  Wells attributed the improvements to the implementation of
performance indicators.  When Transnet updates its five-year plan in January,
planned investment is likely to rise to 100 billion rand from
the current 93.4 billion rand, Wells said. This will allow the
company to provide the capacity to export more minerals, he
said.  “We see Transnet’s role as the enabler to unlock the
resources by providing logistical capacity ahead of time,”
Wells said.  Transnet plans to borrow about 35 billion rand over the
next three years to fund capital expenditure programs, including
a 14.1 billion rand fuel pipeline from Durban to Johannesburg,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 