-- Posen Says Bubble Fears Can't Justify Asian Views on Appreciation Risk
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-26T16:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/posen-says-bubble-fears-can-t-justify-asian-views-on-appreciation-risk.html
Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said asset bubbles in Japan’s economy in the 1980s didn’t
emerge because of monetary policy, undermining the claims of
Asian countries that they need to stop currencies appreciating.  “No-one in east Asia or elsewhere can credibly claim that
fear of feeding an asset-price bubble is justification for
keeping an exchange rate undervalued,” Posen said in a speech
at Queen’s University in Belfast, Northern Ireland, today.
“Japan’s bubbles of the 1980s and their bursting took place due
to non-monetary domestic factors.”  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers on Oct.
23 vowed to avoid weakening currencies to lift exports, leaving
leaders to flesh out new ways of prodding fellow member China to
allow faster gains in the yuan. They pledged greater scope for
markets to set foreign-exchange values, in a bid to calm fears
of a trade war with cheaper currencies used to spur growth.  “The degree to which some major emerging market economies
have spoken out about their fear of capital inflow induced
bubbles shows the relative impotence of monetary policy in open
economies to offset asset-price movements,” Posen said.  Posen said that proponents of the argument of controlling
asset bubbles by measures to “lean against the wind” would
advocate raising interest rates to tame asset bubbles.  “That might usually be politically difficult, but looking
at the aftermath of recent events in the supposedly errant
Anglo-American economies, and the endorsement of such a view by
prominent Mitteleuropean monetary institutions, there would seem
to be plenty of cover,” he said. “Central bankers in emerging
markets are too smart to fall for such monetary snake oil, no
matter how slick the salesmen.”  Posen said that if officials do subscribe to that view,
“we will soon have a demonstration of how raising interest
rates in an open economy will fuel bubbles further by attracting
more capital inflows, rather than popping bubbles.”  Posen was the only one of the Bank of England’s nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee to seek an expansion of stimulus this
month. He refrained from commenting on current U.K. policy. The
panel will make its next decision on Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  