-- British Pound Surges as GDP Beats Estimates, Credit Outlook Raised at S&P
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-26T16:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/pound-strengthens-against-euro-dollar-on-speculation-gdp-to-beat-targets.html
The pound surged and gilts tumbled
after Britain’s economy grew at double the pace forecast by
economists in the third quarter and the nation’s credit outlook
was raised at Standard & Poor’s.  Sterling rose against all 16 of its most-traded peers as
data from the Office for National Statistics in London showed
 gross domestic product  climbed 0.8 percent in the three months
through September. The pound extended gains after S&P affirmed
its top AAA rating for the U.K. and restored its outlook on the
ranking to “stable” from “negative.”  “It’s more good news for the pound today,” said  Steve Barrow , head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange research at
Standard Bank in London. “Revising the outlook is as much a
function of what’s happened with economic growth as the cuts
announced in the spending review.”  The pound appreciated 1.7 percent against the euro to 87.34
pence as of 4:31 p.m. in London, after strengthening as much as
1.72 percent, its biggest intraday gain since Oct. 15, 2009. The
gain pared its monthly decline against the 16-nation currency to
0.7 percent. Sterling climbed 0.9 percent to $1.5868 and
advanced 1.5 percent to 129.01 yen.  The GDP figures eased concern the Bank of England will
restart bond-purchases to support the recovery as the government
prepares to implement spending cuts to tackle a record 156
billion-pound ($247 billion) deficit. Growth was forecast to
expand 0.4 percent, according to the median estimate of 35
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg .  Gilts Decline  The pound has depreciated 4.7 percent this year against a
basket of its developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the second-
worst performing currency, after the euro.  U.K. government bonds dropped after the GDP release, which
was the first quarterly report from a Group of Seven nation and
came as central banks around the world debate whether to add
more stimulus through asset-purchase programs, known as
quantitative easing, to help sustain the global recovery.  The 10-year gilt yield climbed 14 basis points to 3.06
percent. Two-year note yields rose eight basis points to 0.72
percent, after advancing to 0.74 percent, the highest since
Sept. 21.  “The GDP data is very significant as in the market’s mind
it clearly does reduce the prospect of QE,” said  Neil Mellor , a
currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in London.
“However, it’s only one release and the BOE is not going to
rule easing out based on this. They’re going to want more
evidence that it can be sustained.”  QE Debate  BOE Monetary Policy Committee member  Adam Posen  voted to
boost QE by 50 billion pounds at the last rate meeting and said
last week the recovery in the economy appears “patchy.”  “It will be increasingly difficult for Mr. Posen to get
enough of the MPC onside to push through QE at this stage,”
said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange
strategy at CIBC World Markets in London. “They’ve got an
opportunity to pause now until the end of the year to see how
the consumer holds up after the spending review cuts.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said on Sky News
that the S&P move was a “vote of confidence” in the coalition
government in a “double dose of good news” for the economy.
The Chancellor on Oct. 20 detailed a program to eliminate half a
million public-sector jobs and cut spending by 81 billion pounds
over five years.  “The coalition parties have shown a high degree of
cohesion in putting the U.K.’s public finances onto what we view
to be a more sustainable footing,” S&P said in an e-mailed
statement. S&P said in May last year that Britain was at risk of
a downgrade.  Gilts returned investors 9.7 percent since the end of 2009,
beating an 8.3 percent gain from German debt, and 8.8 percent
from U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  