-- Pound Jumps as U.K. Growth Exceeds Forecast, Credit Outlook Raised at S&P
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-26T11:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/pound-extends-gain-as-u-k-outlook-revised-to-stable-at-standard-poor-s.html
The pound surged after the U.K.
economy grew at double the pace forecast by economists in the
third quarter and the nation’s credit outlook was raised at
Standard & Poor’s.  Sterling rose against all 16 of its most-traded peers,
appreciating 1.1 percent against the euro.  Gross domestic
product  rose 0.8 percent in the three months through September,
the Office for National Statistics said in London today.
Economists forecast a 0.4 percent gain, according to the median
of 35 predictions in a  Bloomberg News survey . Gilts slumped.  The S&P decision is “more good news for the pound, as some
in the market were concerned after what the incoming coalition
government was saying about a possible downgrade,” said  Steve Barrow , head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange research at
Standard Bank Plc in London. “Revising the outlook is as much a
function of what’s happened with economic growth as the cuts
announced in the spending review.”  The pound advanced 1 percent to $1.5886 as of 11:42 a.m. in
London. It strengthened to 87.84 pence per euro, from 88.81
pence yesterday.  S&P, which affirmed its AAA rating on U.K. debt, today
restored its outlook to “stable” from “negative” after
saying in May last year that Britain was at risk of a downgrade.  “The coalition parties have shown a high degree of
cohesion in putting the U.K.’s public finances onto what we view
to be a more sustainable footing,” S&P said in an e-mailed
statement.  Gilts slid, sending the yield on the 10-year bond 11 basis
points higher to 3.02 percent. The two-year note yield climbed
seven basis points to 0.71 percent, the first time it rose above
0.7 percent since Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  