-- French Senate Passes Retirement Age Increase as Protests Ease
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-26T14:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/protests-against-sarkozy-pension-plan-ease-students-to-march.html
Protests against President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plan to raise the retirement age eased as a quarter of
France’s oil refinery workers agreed to go back to work and
garbage collectors ended a 14-day walkout in Marseille.  Strikers at three of France’s 12 refineries voted yesterday
to resume working, and others may follow Oct. 29. Almost all of
the barricades at France’s 219 fuel depots  have been lifted .
Eighty percent of service stations should be back in business
today, Energy Minister  Jean-Louis Borloo  said late yesterday.
 Students  pledged to maintain planned demonstrations today.  “I salute the return to dialogue and reason,” Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  said on Radio Classique. “The
economy needs to function and to do that we need an end to these
blockages.” She said the strikes won’t result in the government
changing its growth forecast for this year.  Final votes will be held in the Senate today and the
 National Assembly  tomorrow on Sarkozy’s bill to lift the minimum
retirement age to 62 from 60. The protests and strikes cost the
country between 200 million euros and 400 million euros ($280
million to $560 million) a day, Lagarde said yesterday. Labor
unions have continued to call for strikes and marches on Oct.
28, ahead of the bill’s planned enactment on Nov. 15.  Unions Divided  The  risk premium  on French bonds decreased. Investors
demanded 37 basis points more to buy 10-year French bonds than
comparable German securities, against about 41 basis points on
Oct. 12. The spreads were at 30 basis points on Sept. 6.  France’s nine remaining active refineries are either on
strike or shut because of a lack of crude oil. Workers at the
six  Total SA  refineries on strike will vote Oct. 29 whether to
continue striking, and unions are divided about what to do once
parliament has passed the bill.  “We’ve always said we don’t want to blockade the country,
and once the bill has passed parliament our opposition will take
other forms,” Francois Pelegrina, a representative at Total for
the CFDT  union , said in a telephone interview.  Francois Chereque , secretary general of the CFDT, and
 Laurence Parisot , head of the business lobby Medef, agreed on a
television show last night that once the pension bill has become
law, unions and businesses should focus on how to create more
job opportunities for youths entering the job market and for
people near the end of their working lives.  Other unions have vowed to continue striking.  “The vote on the law won’t sap our determination,” Force
Ouvriere union leader  Jean-Claude Mailly  told  Europe 1  radio
late yesterday. The “few examples” of people returning to work
“don’t show that the protests are slowing down,” he said.  Popular Support  An Ifop institute poll for  Ouest-France  Dimanche newspaper
showed that 63 percent of respondents supported the call for
strikes on Oct. 28. That compares with 71 percent support before
the previous strike on Oct. 12.  The same poll also found that 59 percent of the French
think it’s unacceptable for strikers to block fuel depots or
roads. The poll was conducted Oct. 21 and 22, with 956
respondents.  Paris-based Ifop  did not publish margins of error.  The government says the pension changes are needed to help
France cope with an aging population and balance the pension
system’s budget by 2018.  The overhaul is part of the broader government struggle to
cut the budget deficit. This year the gap will stand at 7.7
percent of gross domestic product, and Sarkozy’s ministers plan
to narrow it to 6 percent, of 92 billion euros, next year.  “This week’s strike will not change anything in the law,”
Labor Minister  Eric Woerth  said on France Info radio this
morning. “In a parliamentary democracy, there has to be respect
for institutions. There have been hundreds of hours of debate.”  Student Marches  High-school and university students said they are holding
demonstrations in cities including Marseille, Bordeaux and
Montpellier today. They plan to meet in front of the Senate in
Paris as lawmakers work on  the final vote in the upper chamber .  The  national railway, SNCF , said nine out of 10 high-speed
trains will run today and that 6.5 percent of workers were on
strike yesterday, down from about 40 percent on strike days. The
 CGT-Cheminots  union pledged to “increase” protests on the Oct.
28 strike day.  Garbage collectors in Marseille voted yesterday to go back
to work after the port city was left with 10,000 tons of
uncollected waste, according to  Force Ouvriere.   Borloo said yesterday that France should have four out five
service stations operating normally today. As many as 40 percent
have been out of gas during the past week.  Workers at  Exxon Mobil Corp. ’s 233,000-barrel-a-day Port-
Jerome-Gravenchon refinery in Normandy and its 119,000-barrel
Fos refinery, near Marseille, both decided to go back to work
yesterday. Even so, production is still being affected by a
blockade of Marseille harbor by strikers, Exxon spokeswoman
 Catherine Brun  said yesterday.       The port of Marseille  has
been on strike since Sept. 27, and 40 crude oil tankers and 20
refined-product tankers are blocked, the port authority said
today. That labor dispute began over a reorganization of the
port, although it is now enmeshed in nationwide opposition to
Sarkozy’s retirement plans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 