-- Puerto Rico May Cut $1.2 Billion in Taxes for Next Six Years, Fortuno Says
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-10-26T18:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/puerto-rico-may-cut-1-2-billion-in-taxes-for-next-six-years-fortuno-says.html
Puerto Rico Governor  Luis Fortuno 
said he wants to cut taxes an average $1.2 billion in each of
the next six years in a bid to spur economic growth.  Individual rates in the U.S. territory would be reduced an
average of 50 percent, and corporations’ rates would go down 30
percent over six years, Fortuno said in a news release. There
would be retroactive relief for 2010, with individuals’ taxes
dropping by 11 percent and corporations’ by 7 percent, according
to the release. That may increase Christmas spending, Fortuno
said in a conference call with reporters today.  “I am convinced that our tax cut and its implementation
will be the key to reigniting our economy” which has contracted
over the past decade, Fortuno said.  The territory’s Legislature must approve the plan, which
will be contained in two bills, Fortuno said. The first will be
introduced today and cover the retroactive cuts that would take
effect this year. He will introduce the second bill, which
covers the cuts from 2011 to 2016, in coming weeks, he said.  Fortuno, the first Republican governor elected in 40 years,
took office in January 2009 on a platform of reducing what was a
$3.3 billion budget deficit. Expenses in next year’s spending
plan are 20 percent less than when he took office and government
payrolls have 17,000 fewer workers, he said.  Making Repairs  Fortuno also promised to help restore a credit rating lower
than California’s, the worst-rated state according to Standard &
Poor’s. The tax cuts will help accomplish that, Fortuno said.
Puerto Rico, which has more bonds outstanding than all but nine
U.S. states, issues more than twice the number of bonds backed
by sales tax than general obligation debt, because of the notes’
higher rating, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The plan is part of an economic strategy promoted by the
governor that includes property-tax breaks to boost the housing
sector and expanding public-private partnerships.  Cuts for 2014 and beyond would be contingent on the
government’s meeting spending and growth targets.  “By closing our tax loopholes and broadening our tax base,
this tax reform allows us to balance our budget as we
proposed,” Fortuno said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 