-- Puma Reports Profit Gain, Raises Annual Forecasts
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-10-26T13:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/puma-posts-third-quarter-net-that-misses-analyst-estimate-revenue-gains.html
Puma AG,  Europe’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker, said third-quarter profit rose 14 percent
and raised its 2010 forecasts for sales and profitability.  Net income advanced to 77.6 million euros ($108.4 million),
or 5.13 euros a share, the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company
said today. For the year, Puma forecasts sales growth in the
“mid-to-high single digits,” having previously predicted
“low-to-mid single digits.” The company said it now expects
gross  profit margins  to widen rather than be unchanged.  Chief Executive Officer  Jochen Zeitz  said the outlook for
revenue growth is better in the fourth quarter, without giving a
reason. Sales will continue rising at a “high single-digit”
pace until 2015 while margins will remain stable, the company
said, driven by the Puma brand, the wholesale business, footwear
sales and by the Europe, Middle East and Africa region.  Puma rose 4.75 euros, or 1.9 percent, to 255.30 euros at
2:07 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The  shares  fell yesterday after
Puma said “irregularities” at its Greek joint venture will
cause the company to write off as much as 115 million euros, of
which about 15 million euros will be charged this year.  Puma today disclosed details of its so-called “back to the
attack” program, which aims to boost annual  revenue  to 4
billion euros by 2015 from 2.46 billion euros last year. As part
of that plan, the sporting-goods maker said it will take full
control of its Chinese retail joint venture in January by
acquiring the 49 percent minority stake. Puma aims to make China
its biggest emerging markets country.  PPR Division  Puma will “selectively” consider making acquisitions,
though growth will mostly be achieved without them, Zeitz said.
The company is able to spend a “triple-digit million” euro
amount for acquisitions if it sees opportunities, he added.  Investment in the business will be as much as 100 million
euros in 2011 and less than that in future years, Zeitz said.
Puma won’t lower prices for its shoes and apparel next year, the
CEO also said.  French parent company  PPR SA,  which holds 71.6 percent of
the shares, said Oct. 18 that the sporting-goods maker will
become the main brand of a new sports and lifestyle unit. Puma
will in April convert into a Societas Europaea, and Chief
Executive Officer  Jochen Zeitz  will become executive chairman.  Third-quarter revenue at the sporting-goods maker rose 17
percent to 784.3 million euros, or 6.5 percent adjusted for
currency shifts. The euro traded at an average of $1.29 in the
period compared with $1.43 a year earlier. Sales also rose after
Puma acquired Fortune Brands Inc.’s Cobra golf brand this year.  Profit missed the 79.3 million-euro average  estimate  of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Puma also predicted an increase in full-year earnings
before interest, taxes and one-time items.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  