-- Qatar Exchange Plans to Start Bond Trading, Short Selling in First Quarter
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-10-26T10:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/qatar-bourse-expects-to-start-bond-trading-short-selling-in-first-quarter.html
The Qatar Exchange , the Persian Gulf
bourse that is 20 percent owned by  NYSE Euronext , may implement
short selling as well as bond and sukuk trading in the first
quarter of next year, Saif Al-Mansoori, the exchange’s deputy
chief executive officer, said.  The exchange also expects the foreign ownership limit in
companies to increase to 49 percent from 25 percent and is
planning to introduce derivatives trading, Al-Mansoori said in
an interview in Beirut today. The Qatar Exchange is taking steps
to achieve index provider MSCI Inc.’s designation as an emerging
market, he said.  “We are looking at our weaknesses and are starting to
address them one by one,” Al-Mansoori said.  MSCI currently classifies Qatar as a frontier market, a
designation that typically applies to economies and financial
markets that are less-developed than emerging markets and that
have more restrictions on foreign stock ownership.  The Qatar Exchange is more than a year into a modernization
effort to increase trading that started when NYSE Euronext paid
$200 million for a stake in the exchange in June 2009. The
bourse switched to the NYSE Euronext Universal Trading Platform,
called UTP, in September.  Bond Trading  The Qatar Exchange doesn’t yet offer investors the
opportunity to sell short, when a trader borrows and sells stock
to profit from price declines. The introduction of trading in
bonds and Islamic sukuks comes as the Qatari government seeks to
encourage the formation of a local debt market. It offered 12
billion riyals ($3.3 billion) worth of bonds and sukuks to local
banks earlier this year.  Qatar, which the  International Monetary Fund  forecasts will
have the world’s fastest growing economy in 2010, plans to start
two new natural gas liquefaction plants by early next year,
raising its annual capacity to 77 million tons. Qatar is the
world’s biggest producer of liquefied natural gas and holder of
the world’s third-largest gas reserves.  The bourse expects to see at least two initial public
offerings next year, Al-Mansoori said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  