-- Race to Replace China's Rare Earths May Take Decade, Germany Says
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-10-26T10:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/race-to-replace-china-in-rare-earth-supplies-may-take-decade-germany-says.html
China’s decision to curb exports of
rare earths is set to spark a global race for alternative
sources that may still take a decade to secure sufficient
supplies, the head of the German commodities agency said.  More rigid environmental standards in the European Union
and ethical questions over sourcing raw materials from
developing nations mean there can be no quick fixes in finding
viable alternatives to China, producer of more than 90 percent
of the world’s rare earths, said  Volker Steinbach , who heads the
 Hanover-based  government agency. Stepping up global pressure on
the Chinese government to resume exports may be the best short-
term option, he said.  “We’re faced with a gap in rare-earth supplies that cannot
be plugged overnight,” Steinbach said by phone ahead of a
conference in Berlin today on securing commodity resources.
“Realistically, bringing rare earths in volume to markets from
new sites like Mongolia, Africa and Greenland may take five to
10 years.”  Germany joins Japan and the U.S. in calling on China to
restore rare-earth exports after the Chinese government in July
announced cuts in production of the elements used in everything
from hybrid vehicles and flat-screen TVs to weapons systems.
With demand for rare earths already forecast to outstrip supply,
a scramble to secure substitute supplies is underway.  Chile, South Africa  German Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle , whose ministry is
hosting today’s conference, plans seven “strategic
partnerships” to secure commodities, including rare earths and
copper, according to two officials with knowledge of the matter.  The partner nations are Mongolia, Namibia, Nigeria,
Kazakhstan, South Africa, Chile and Peru, said the two
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the plans
are not yet public.  Safeguarding rare-earth supplies is “crucial” and Germany
will forge partnerships with mining states to help do so,
Bruederle said in a speech to the conference, without naming the
countries.  The “ghost of protectionism” haunts global trade and
China must realize that its policy is not a “one-way street,”
he said.  China’s policy on rare-earth shipments is a sovereign right
that doesn’t conflict with World Trade Organization rules,
Foreign Ministry Spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  said in Beijing today.  That stance won some support from the trade arbitrator’s
director general,  Pascal Lamy , who said the WTO has historically
focused on combating import restrictions rather than exports,
which “are nearer to sovereignty matters.”  ‘Very Shallow’  The rule book on tackling export restrictions “is very
shallow in the WTO,” Lamy said in a speech to the commodities
conference in Berlin. WTO members should commit to improving on
this situation, he said.  The German plans to diversify its sources of rare earths
follow moves by Japan to secure supplies from Vietnam and India,
while at the same time coaxing China to ease exports.  Longer term, Chinese demand for rare earths looks set to
remain, said Steinbach, whose agency was created by the Economy
Ministry last month after industry complained of government
inaction to safeguard access to commodities such as europium
used in flat-screen televisions.  The cumulative cuts announced by China will put export
quotas this year at 30,000 tons, or 18,000 tons less than in
2009, said Steinbach, a geologist by training.  “What the numbers are saying is that China is using about
two-thirds of its own production this year -- up from a quarter
10 years ago,” said Steinbach. “To me, that’s a signal that
diminishing quotas may be here to stay.”  Even so, starting up private partnerships to produce rare
earths from Greenland, Mongolia and Kazakhstan “face a thicket
of European Union environmental regulations as well as building
infrastructure problems that could take five to ten years to
solve,” said Steinbach.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Czuczka  at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  