-- Rare Earths Rival Lure of Navigator's Gold, Fuel Share `Bubble'
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-10-26T13:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/rare-earths-rival-lure-of-navigator-resources-gold-fuel-share-bubble-.html
Bankers visiting Navigator Resources
Ltd.’s gold mine in Western Australia two weeks ago soon turned
their focus to a different set of metals about 1,000 kilometers
(620 miles) to the north: rare earths.  Twelve days after their Oct. 11 tour, Navigator said it
planned to sell half its rare earth assets for at least A$10
million ($9.9 million) to create a separately listed company.
The speed of the deal comes amid surging interest in the
minerals used in disk drives, wind turbines and guided missiles
because of looming shortages caused by China’s cuts to exports
that account for more than 97 percent of world supply.  Shares of  Lynas Corp.  and  Molycorp Inc. , the biggest non-
Chinese rare earth companies by market value, have more than
doubled since July, when China said it would cut shipments by 72
percent in the second half. Now, smaller rivals such as
Navigator,  Korab Resources Ltd.  and  Greenland Minerals & Energy
Ltd.  are burnishing their rare earth assets.  “It does smack essentially of the vogue investment,” said
 Ric Ronge , who helps manage the equivalent of $1.1 billion at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “It’s been used almost as an
instrument to come and mine the market.”  Lynas, which is based in Sydney, estimates the global rare
earth market this year at $7.8 billion, or about a week’s sales
at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  Still, China’s cutbacks have raised
political tension because of the strategic importance of the
metals used in  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s Prius hybrid cars,  Research
in Motion Ltd.  BlackBerrys, alternative energy generation and
weapons.  Ensuring supplies of rare earths is “crucial,” German
Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  said yesterday. The Pentagon
is due to report on its plans for securing resources to Congress
this month. China says its curbs are needed to shut inefficient
mines that waste resources and damage the environment.  Lanthanum Oxide  The price of lanthanum oxide, used in hybrid batteries, has
risen more than sixfold since second quarter to $50 a kilogram,
according to Lynas’s  website . Vehicles such as the Prius contain
about 10 kilograms of rare earths, while a typical 3-megawatt
wind turbine requires 1 ton of neodymium iron boron magnets,
according to  Albert Cheung , an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in London.  World demand for rare earths will increase to about 225,000
tons by 2015 from 125,000 tons this year, Molycorp Chief
Executive Officer  Mark A. Smith  said last week in an interview.
By 2015, China will produce 175,000 tons, with the gap to be
filled mainly by Molycorp and Lynas, he said.  Hurdles  “It’s only going to take probably four to six significant
rare earths-producing mines to fulfill global demand for the
next five to 10 years,” said  John Mair , general manager of
business development at Perth-based Greenland Minerals, whose
project in the country may start in 2015. “There is a bit of a
rare earth bubble that is starting to emerge.”  Rare earth companies have to overcome regulatory and
technical hurdles to develop assets, which can take years, said
Trent Allan, an analyst at Resource Capital Research in Sydney.  The key to funding projects is “demonstrating that their
process is effective in extracting the rare earth,” said Trent,
who covers Greenland Minerals. “That’s the stage that all of
these deposits need to get to. So far, so good with Greenland.”  The company’s  shares  jumped 58 percent last week on the
Australian stock exchange. The average stock-price gain over the
past month of 31 companies tracked by Bloomberg globally that
claim a rare earth element in their business is 34 percent, even
though only two have reported positive free cash flow.  Hype  “Everyone is looking for the 3-cent stock that suddenly
could shoot to 10 cents, really on the back of hype,” said
 Cameron Peacock , a market analyst at IG Markets in Melbourne.
“These things will crash as quickly as they’ve risen.”  The prospect of shortages and rising prices hasn’t been
enough to lure the manager of the world’s biggest mining fund.  Rare earths are “not like producing a bar of gold,” said
 Evy Hambro , who oversees $14.2 billion at BlackRock Inc.’s World
Mining Fund. “You’re producing a basket of commodities of whose
prices you’re never really certain. They have lots of different
applications and those applications change the whole time.”  Molycorp, which is based in Greenwood Village, Colorado,
plans to begin production in the second half of 2011 with a
target of about 20,000 metric tons by the end of 2012. The
company may double capacity at its California mine, Smith said
last week. The project once met almost all the world’s rare-
earth demand before closing eight years ago, undercut by low-
cost Chinese metals.  Molycorp stock has surged 144 percent since it raised $394
million in a July initial public offering.  ‘Exciting Discovery’  Lynas plans production of 22,000 tons by the end of 2012
from its Mt. Weld project, it said Sept. 28. The shares jumped
183 percent this year.  Perth-based  Korab Resources Ltd. ’s stock has more than
doubled to 42 Australian cents since announcing an “exciting
discovery” of rare earths on Oct. 15.  “We’re still trading at a huge discount to where we should
be,” said Executive Chairman Andrey Karpinski. “Shares should
be trading somewhere north of 60 cents based on overall
assets,” including other minerals such as magnesium, he said.  Navigator rose 39 percent in the two weeks before the Oct.
22 announcement that it hired BGF Equity to structure its deal.
The stock has fallen 14 percent since.  “Navigator’s recognition in the market for having a rare
earths project is very recent,” said  David Hatch , managing
director of the gold-focused developer. The project “has been
in the company since it listed in September 2003. It’s not
something that fell out of the sky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  