-- Treasuries Remain Lower After $35 Billion Auction of Two-Year Securities
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-26T17:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/treasuries-remain-lower-after-35-billion-auction-of-two-year-securities.html
Treasuries remained lower after the
government’s auction of $35 billion in two-year debt, the second
of four note sales this week totaling $109 billion, drew higher-
than-average demand.  The securities yielded a record-low 0.40 percent, versus
the average forecast of 0.409 percent in a Bloomberg News survey
of 8 of the Federal Reserve’s 18 primary dealers. The  bid-to-
cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount of securities offered, was 3.43. The average at the
past 10 auctions was 3.2.  “It indicates continued demand for real money to own risk-
free assets,” said  Christian Cooper , senior rates trader in New
York at Jefferies & Co., one of the 18 primary dealers required
to bid in U.S. debt auctions. “It reflects continued concerns
about the potential path of the recovery.”  The yield on the  current two-year note  increased two basis
points to 0.38 percent at 1:31 p.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data. One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.
Ten-year note yields rose four basis points to 2.6 percent.  The Treasury auctioned $10 billion in five-year inflation-
indexed securities yesterday, drawing the first negative yield
at a U.S. debt sale, minus 0.55 percent, as investors speculated
they will have positive returns when inflation picks up.  Breakeven Rate  The gap between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and equivalent
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of price
expectations called the breakeven rate, earlier today touched a
five-month high of 2.19 percent as investors bet the Fed will
succeed in sparking inflation.  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond
fund, said so-called quantitative easing will push up inflation.  The last two-year note auction, a $36 billion offering
Sept. 27, drew a yield of 0.441 percent, the lowest then on
record. The  bid-to-cover  ratio then was 3.78, the highest since
August 2007 at the start of the financial crisis.  Indirect bidders, a category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 40 percent of the notes today, the
most since June. At the September sale, they bought 39 percent,
versus the average for the past 10 sales of 38.1 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealers that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, purchased 15.9 percent of the notes,
also the most since June. That compared with 10.8 percent at the
last sale and an average of 14.7 percent at the past 10.  “Even some of the most aggressive inflation believers out
there aren’t expecting it to occur in the next year,” said
 Jason Rogan , director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors.  Tomorrow’s Auction  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of conventional five-year
notes tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year debt on Oct. 28.  Treasury-market inflation bets rose today as traders
wagered that bond purchases by the Federal Reserve will spur
consumer-price gains.  Fed policy makers, who already cut  interest rates  almost to
zero and bought $1.7 trillion of securities, are discussing more
purchases of Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money to
prevent stagnating prices from undermining the recovery. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at conference Oct. 15 the economy
may need more stimulus because inflation is too low and
unemployment too high at 9.6 percent. The Fed meets Nov. 2-3.  Fed Treasury purchases will spur global inflation while
failing to bring down U.S.  unemployment , Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco’s El-Erian said yesterday. The  jobless 
rate has been more than 9 percent since May 2009.  ‘Terrified of Deflation’  The Fed will probably add to its buys at its meeting next
week, El-Erian said. The central bank “is terrified of
deflation,” he said.  U.S. Treasury note investors were the most optimistic this
week since June 2009, according to a  weekly poll  of clients by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The net percentage of investors holding Treasury notes
increased to 29 percent this week from 25 percent the previous
week. The net figure is the difference between the percentage of
long investors in Treasuries, who expect prices to increase, and
the percentage of investors short Treasuries, expecting prices
to decrease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  