-- Treasury Inflation Bets Climb to Five-Month High on Prospects for Easing
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-26T21:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/treasury-inflation-bets-climb-to-five-month-high-on-prospects-for-easing.html
Treasury-market inflation bets rose
to a five-month high as traders wagered that bond purchases by
the Federal Reserve will spur consumer-price gains.  The gap between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and equivalent
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of price
expectations called the breakeven rate, widened on investor bets
the Fed will succeed in sparking inflation. Still, the
government’s auction of $35 billion of two-year notes drew
higher-than-average demand amid speculation the central bank’s
efforts won’t bring the economy back to full speed quickly.  “When the Fed tells you inflation is too low and they want
it to go higher, you have to listen,” said  Jay Mueller , who
manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo & Co. in
Milwaukee. “The TIPS market is taking them seriously.”  The yield on benchmark 10-year  securities  increased eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.643 percent at 5:14
p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. It touched
2.6448 percent, the highest level since Sept. 21. The 2.625
percent security due in August 2020 dropped 21/32, or $6.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 27/32.  Two-year  yields  rose three basis points to 0.39 percent,
versus the record low of 0.327 percent set Oct. 12.  Thirty-year
bond  yields climbed as much as 10 basis points to 4.01 percent,
the highest since Oct. 15. Treasuries overall have lost 0.02
percent this month, the first decline since March, according to
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  The  gap  between rates on 10-year notes and TIPS was 2.18
percentage points after touching 2.19 percentage points, the
widest since May 18. A $10 billion sale of five-year TIPS
yesterday drew a yield of minus 0.55 percent, the first negative
yield at a U.S. debt sale, as investors speculated they will
have positive returns when inflation picks up.  Cheap Money  Fed policy makers, who already cut  interest rates  almost to
zero and bought $1.7 trillion of securities, are discussing more
purchases of Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money to
prevent stagnating prices from undermining the recovery. The
strategy is called quantitative easing. The Fed meets Nov. 2-3.  The dollar gained against the euro today on speculation an
increase in Fed debt purchases will spur inflation. The
greenback appreciated 0.8 percent to $1.3859.  Treasuries remained lower after the government’s auction of
$35 billion in two-year debt, the second of four note sales this
week totaling $109 billion, drew higher-than-average demand.  The securities yielded a record-low 0.40 percent, versus
the average forecast of 0.409 percent in a Bloomberg News survey
of 8 of the Fed’s 18 primary dealers. The  bid-to-cover  ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.43. The average at the past 10
auctions was 3.2.  Not in Next Year  “Even some of the most aggressive inflation believers out
there aren’t expecting it to occur in the next year,” said
 Jason Rogan , director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
Investors.  Indirect bidders, a category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 40 percent of the notes today, the
most since June. At the September sale, they bought 39 percent.
Direct bidders, non-primary dealers that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, purchased 15.9 percent of the notes,
also the most since June.  Path of Recovery  “It reflects continued concerns about the potential path
of the recovery,” said  Christian Cooper , head of U.S. dollar
derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies & Co., which as a
primary dealer is required to bid in Treasury auctions. “People
are asking if quantitative easing will take on any meaningful
improvement in the employment picture, and if it does, when does
that improvement in the employment rate or in improved
confidence translate into improvement for main street.”  The last two-year note auction, a $36 billion offering
Sept. 27, drew a yield of 0.441 percent, the lowest then on
record.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of conventional five-year
notes tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year debt on Oct. 28.  The Fed bought $2.5 billion of Treasuries today as part of
a program to reinvest principal payments on its mortgage
holdings into long-term government debt. It acquired 8
Treasuries that mature from August 2021 to November 2039, the
New York Fed said in a  statement . The Fed has bought $60.7
billion of Treasuries since it began the program Aug. 17.  ‘Tepid’ Recovery  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said the U.S.
economic recovery is “tepid.” In the text of a speech in
Rochester, New York, he repeated his view that policy makers
will probably need to embark on a second round of unconventional
stimulus to deal with too-low inflation and a jobless rate
that’s stuck near 10 percent.  U.S. Treasury note investors were the most optimistic this
week since June 2009, according to a  weekly poll  of clients by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The net percentage of investors holding Treasury notes
increased to 29 percent this week from 25 percent the previous
week. The net figure is the difference between the percentage of
long investors in Treasuries, who expect prices to increase, and
the percentage of investors short Treasuries, expecting prices
to decrease.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  