-- Treasury Inflation Bets Rise to Five-Month High on Outlook for Fed Easing
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-10-26T13:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/treasury-inflation-bets-rise-to-five-month-high-on-outlook-for-fed-easing.html
Treasury-market inflation bets rose
to a five-month high as traders wagered that bond purchases by
the Federal Reserve will spur consumer-price growth.  The gap between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and equivalent
inflation-linked securities, a gauge of price expectations
called the breakeven rate, widened as investors bet the Fed will
be successful in sparking inflation.  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., led
analysts and investors who say so-called quantitative easing
will push up inflation. Treasuries fell even as data showed home
prices in 20 U.S. cities rose at a slower pace than forecast.  “Breakevens are a good way to play the QE trade,” said
 Sean Maloney , a fixed-income strategist at Nomura International
Plc in London. “We don’t think this pattern is about to end,
but it may become more volatile.”  The yield on benchmark 10-year securities rose four basis
points to 2.6 percent as of 9:11 a.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data. It touched 2.6139 percent, the highest
level since Sept. 24. The 2.625 percent security due in August
2020 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 6/32.
Two-year notes yielded 0.37 percent, versus the record low of
0.327 percent set on Oct. 12.  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, touched 2.19 percentage points, the most
since May 18. A $10 billion sale of five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, or TIPS, drew a yield of minus 0.55
percent yesterday, the first negative yield at a U.S. debt sale.  Dollar Versus Yen  The dollar rose 0.7 percent against the yen after trading
near a 15-year low on the outlook for Fed easing. The U.S.
currency bought 81.35 yen, from as little as 80.41 yen
yesterday, the weakest level since April 1995.  Treasuries still offer value, said  Yusuke Tanaka , senior
dealer for Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp. in Singapore,
part of Japan’s largest publicly traded lender.  “The economy’s not improving,” Tanaka said. “The rally’s
not over.” He plans to buy 10-year notes at a yield of 2.7
percent, he said.  Ten-year yields will be little changed at 2.57 percent by
Dec. 31, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  U.S.  unemployment  has been more than 9 percent since May
2009.  The  S&P/Case-Shiller index  of property values increased 1.7
percent in August from 12 months earlier, the smallest year-
over-year gain since February, the group said today in New York.
The median forecast of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected a 2.1 percent increase. Consumer confidence rose in
October, economists in another survey said before data today.  Auction Demand  The U.S. is scheduled to auction $35 billion of two-year
notes today, to be followed by sales of five-year debt tomorrow
and seven-year securities on Oct. 28.  The two-year notes yielded 0.39 percent in pre-auction
trading, versus the prior record low of 0.441 percent at the
previous auction on Sept. 27. Investors bid for 3.78 times the
amount on offer last month, versus an average of 3.2 for the
past 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 39 percent of the notes, compared
with the 10-sale average of 37.6 percent.  Rising costs for metals, food and oil show the central bank
is preventing deflation,  John Brynjolfsson , chief investment
officer at Aliso Viejo, California-based Armored Wolf LLC, said
in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television. Deflation is
a general drop in prices.  Inflation ‘Bazooka’  “Their second goal is to achieve their target of 2 percent
inflation,” he said. “The bazooka they have of quantitative
easing should convince market participants that if that’s what
they want, that’s what they’re going to get.”  Fed Treasury purchases will spur global inflation while
failing to bring down U.S.  unemployment ,  El-Erian  said
yesterday. Pimco, based in Newport Beach, California, manages
the world’s biggest bond fund.  The central bank announced Aug. 10 that it will reinvest
principal payments from its holdings of mortgage debt in U.S.
government securities. It plans to buy Treasuries maturing from
February 2021 to August 2040 today as part of that plan,
according to its  website .  The Fed will probably add to its purchases at its next
meeting Nov. 2-3, El-Erian said. The central bank “is terrified
of deflation,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  