-- Regions Financial Drops as Real Estate Loans Trigger Larger Quarterly Loss
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-26T13:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/regions-financial-drops-as-real-estate-loans-trigger-loss-at-alabama-bank.html
Regions Financial Corp.  led
decliners among bank stocks by falling as much as 6.8 percent
after posting a bigger loss than some analysts expected tied to
distressed real estate.  The third period’s net loss -- the  seventh  in eight
quarters for the Birmingham, Alabama-based lender -- narrowed to
$155 million, or 13 cents a share before preferred dividends,
from $377 million, or 32 cents, in the same period a year
earlier, Regions said today in a statement. The bank was
 expected  to lose 10 cents a share, according to the average
estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Regions hasn’t posted an  annual profit  since 2007 and has
written off more than $3 billion in loans since the start of
2009. Most were tied to developers, home builders and mortgage
borrowers in Georgia and Florida. The lender has cut staff by
about 5,300 people, or 16 percent, and closed almost 200
offices. Regions still holds $3.5 billion in U.S. rescue funds.  “Although the economic recovery in most of our markets
remains slow and uneven, we remain committed to returning
Regions to sustainable profitability as quickly and prudently as
possible and believe this quarter’s actions to dispose of
problem assets will help us achieve our goal,” Chief Executive
Officer  Grayson Hall  said in the statement. Regions sold $709
million of distressed loans and property in the quarter.  Takeover Talk  Regions declined 45 cents to $6.58 at 9:36 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, and sold for as little as
$6.55. It was the biggest drop in the 24-company KBW Stock
Index. The bank had been up 33 percent this year through
yesterday.  The mounting losses have made Regions the subject of
takeover speculation, with Credit Suisse Group AG saying in a
September report that the company is the biggest U.S. bank most
likely to become a target of Canadian, Spanish or larger U.S.
banks as industry consolidation accelerates. Regions doesn’t
comment on analyst reports, spokesman Tim Deighton said.  Charge-offs for uncollectible loans increased to $759
million from $651 million in the second quarter because of more
bad commercial real-estate loans. The bank charged off 20
percent of its construction loans on investor-owned property,
compared with a 2 percent rate on owner-occupied commercial real
estate.  Regions slashed its maximum estimate for losses tied to the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill to $20 million from its earlier $100
million estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net.To  