-- Renaissance, Tatu City Plan to Build Housing Complex in Suburb of Nairobi
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   C a r o l   M a t l a c k
-- 2010-10-26T13:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/renaissance-partners-tatu-city-to-build-houses-in-complex-outside-nairobi.html
Renaissance Partners, the investment
unit of Moscow-based Renaissance Group, plans to build a $5
billion residential complex outside Nairobi, the Kenyan capital,
in partnership with local investors.  Tatu City is one of five real estate investments that
Renaissance is eyeing in Africa after securing plots on the
edges of capital cities in Zambia, Ghana and Zimbabwe as well as
Lagos in Nigeria,  Chris Baxter , chief executive officer of
Renaissance Partners, said today in an interview in Nairobi.  “Our vision is to create a portfolio of four or five of
these kinds of projects,” Baxter said. “It’s an idea we could
take to international capital markets in four or five years.”  Basic services such as electricity and roads are stretched
in Africa’s overcrowded cities due to rapid urbanization and
inadequate planning. Nairobi’s infrastructure hasn’t kept pace
with population growth of 3.8 percent a year over the last
decade. As a result, one in every four residents lack access to
piped water and about 40 percent of people use open-pit toilets,
according to Kenya’s statistics agency.  Recognition by African governments that cities must
transform themselves to accommodate population growth has
created investment opportunities,  Arnold Meyer , Renaissance’s
managing director for real estate, said in an interview today.  ‘Exponential Growth’  “In Africa there is going to be exponential growth in
urbanization with a need for people to be housed,” he said.  About $100 million has been spent so far on the development
of Tatu City, a 50-50 joint venture between Renaissance and Tatu
City Ltd., the Kenyan investors, Renaissance Group Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Jennings  said in an interview today.  Tatu City will accommodate as many as 62,000 residents and
be built in 10 phases over 8 to 10 years, the companies said in
a statement handed to reporters in Nairobi today. The
development will contain a stadium, technology park, hospital,
housing, retailers, office towers and playgrounds, it said.  Tatu City, a 1,000 hectare plot about 15 kilometers (9
miles) north of Nairobi, is envisioned to become a business
center for Kenya similar to the Johannesburg suburb of Sandton,
whose developers include Liberty Group, said Meyer.  “In 25 years it’s gone from a farm to the financial
capital of Africa,” Meyer said of the district.  Tatu City will be “self-governing” and taxes collected
within the area will be given to the city for spending, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Carol Matlack  in Nairobi at 
 cmatlack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 