-- Renault's Ghosn Expects Western Europe Market Recovery in 2012
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-10-26T17:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/renault-ceo-ghosn-says-western-europe-auto-market-will-recovery-in-2012.html
Renault SA , France’s second-biggest
carmaker, forecasts Western Europe’s auto market will only
recover in 2012 as the after-effects of state sales incentives
linger next year, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said.  “Reasonably, it should start to rebound in 2012” after
the market shrinks the rest of this year and in the first half
of 2011, Ghosn said today in an interview at the World Economic
Forum in Marrakesh, Morocco. “In the second half of 2011, this
correction will be finished.”  Industrywide car sales in western Europe, which  fell  3.4
percent in the nine months through September, have declined this
year as government “cash-for-clunkers” programs and other
incentives expire. PSA Peugeot Citroen, France’s biggest
carmaker, predicted on Oct. 20 that the contraction in Europe
this year may amount to 5 percent. In contrast to Ghosn, Peugeot
CEO  Philippe Varin  is forecasting a recovery starting in 2011.  Ghosn said developed countries cannot compete with emerging
markets in the production of low-cost vehicles. “There is no
way,” he said. “They are leaving Japan. They are leaving the
United States and they are leaving Europe.”  Renault , which is based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-
Billancourt, is building a car factory in Tangiers, Morocco,
that Ghosn said will start production in 2012. The 1 billion-
euro ($1.39 billion) plant will have annual capacity to build
400,000 vehicles, with 10 percent to 20 percent to be sold in
Morocco and surrounding countries.  Nissan Capacity  Renault’s Japanese affiliate  Nissan Motor Co.  needs to find
more capacity to supply the Middle East because, while Chinese
and Indian plants can provide vehicles to the region, “it’s not
going to be sufficient because this market is going to continue
to grow,” said Ghosn, who also runs the Yokohama-based
automaker.  Supplies of rare-earth metals are “not an issue for
Renault-Nissan,” as the partners already have a diversified
supply, and raw-material providers are investing in additional
sources of the materials in the medium term, Ghosn said.  Restrictions by China, which mines more than 90 percent of
the world’s rare earths, have drawn criticism from U.S.
lawmakers and officials in Japan and Germany. China reduced its
second-half export quota for the minerals by 72 percent in July,
the Ministry of Commerce said. It is now further restricting
exports, according to industry participants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Marrakesh, Morocco, via 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 