-- Trico Marine Creditors Seek to Force Foreign Units Into Bankruptcy in U.S.
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-26T21:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/trico-marine-creditors-seek-to-force-foreign-units-into-bankruptcy-in-u-s-.html
Creditors of  Trico Marine Services
Inc.  asked a judge to force some of the company’s foreign units
into bankruptcy in the U.S. or to appoint a trustee to run the
supplier of rented ships to oil and natural-gas drillers.  Two funds that invest in distressed debt claim that before
it filed bankruptcy in August, Trico Marine shifted “a
substantial amount of cash and other value” to subsidiary Trico
Supply Group.  That shift was a fraudulent transfer that deprived
creditors of assets that could have been used to repay them,
Arrowgrass Master Fund Ltd. and Arrowgrass Distressed
Opportunities Fund Ltd. said today in court papers in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  Trico, based in Woodlands, Texas, is in bankruptcy for the
second time in five years. After the company reorganized and cut
debt in 2005, it left bankruptcy and eventually added more than
$770 million in debt, Arrowgrass said in court papers.  None of Trico’s main foreign operating subsidiaries is in
bankruptcy. The company said in June that it had assets of
$904 million and liabilities of more than $1 billion.  Trico’s attorney  Steven M. Abramowitz  did not immediately
return a call for comment.  When Trico filed its most recent bankruptcy, the company
blamed the economic slowdown and imminent interest payments. It
listed assets of $30.6 million and  debt  of $353.6 million.  Shift of Emphasis  The company added much of its debt in order to acquire
another oil-services company, Active Subsea ASA. Through
transactions from 2007 to 2010, Trico changed its business focus
from providing towing services and supplies to off-shore oil
drillers to undersea trenching and cable services, Arrowgrass
said in court papers.  Arrowgrass holds Trico’s 3 percent convertible debentures
that mature in 2027.  The case is In re Trico Marine Services, 10-12653, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 