-- Swedish Riksbank Raises Benchmark to 1%, Lowers Rate Forecast
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2010-10-26T11:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/riksbank-raises-interest-rate-for-third-time-since-july-reduces-forecast.html
Sweden’s central bank raised its
 benchmark repo rate  for a third time since July while policy
makers said the prospect of a sluggish global recovery suggests
further tightening plans should be scaled back.  The Stockholm-based Riksbank raised the seven-day repo rate
by a quarter of a percentage point to 1 percent, it said today
on its website. The decision was expected by all 20 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “The Swedish economy is growing rapidly,” the bank said
in its statement. “However, due to the weak developments
overseas, it is not deemed that the repo rate needs to be raised
so much in the coming years.”  Sweden’s $470 billion economy will grow 4.8 percent this
year, the government estimates, as an export-led recovery
recoups most of last year’s 5.1 percent contraction. The
Riksbank is curbing tightening plans as the outlook for other
parts of Europe and the U.S. grows less certain and
international interest rates remain low, it said.  “This was a much more dovish Riksbank than we expected,”
said Elisabet Kopelman , an economist at SEB AB in Stockholm.
“Obviously this is a big surprise compared to the signals that
we have gotten from the Riksbank lately; they clearly have
become more worried about what is happening in the global
economy and clearly they have taken notice of the message from
other central banks and they are adjusting the monetary policy
in Sweden accordingly.”  Krona Slides  The krona slipped 0.9 percent against the euro to trade at
9.2793 at 10:50 a.m. in Stockholm. Against the dollar, the krona
lost 1 percent to trade at 6.6478.  The Riksbank now sees the seven-day repo averaging 1
percent this quarter, 1.3 percent in the first quarter of 2011
and 2 percent in the fourth quarter next year. The rate will
reach 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013, it predicted.
That compares with a previous forecast for 1.4 percent next
quarter, 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter next year and 3.3
percent in the final quarter of 2012, it said.  Deputy Governors  Karolina Ekholm  and  Lars E. O. Svensson 
entered a reservation against today’s rate decision and against
the new repo path. Both preferred a repo rate of 0.75 percent
and a repo rate path that gradually rises to 2.7 percent by the
end of the forecast period.  Svensson last month told newspaper Svenska Dagbladet more
rate rises could spell “a catastrophe” for the economy.  ‘Different Views’  “You will always have different views,” Governor  Stefan Ingves  said in an interview today after the rate decision was
announced. “All of us have various backgrounds and this is how
the system is organized, so it’s not all that surprising.”  The bank raised its forecast for the economy this year to
4.8 percent growth from 4.1 percent previously. It sees total
output expanding 3.8 percent in 2011 and 2.5 percent in 2012, it
said. Headline inflation will be 1.2 percent this year, 1.7
percent in 2011 and 2.2 percent in 2012, the bank said, lowering
its price forecasts for the next two years.  The government on Oct. 12 raised this year’s economic
forecast, though it cut next year’s growth outlook to 3.7
percent, citing the threat to exports from a lackluster global
recovery. The International Monetary Fund expects Sweden’s
economy to expand 2.6 percent next year.  U.S. Slumping  “The U.S. economy is slumping, the threat from the
eurozone is not decreasing and I think the Swedish economy is
going to taper off,” said  Par Magnusson , chief Nordic economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, before the announcement.
“Sweden is going to see slow growth going forward.”  The  headline inflation  rate rose 0.5 point to 1.4 percent
last month, though the measure has lagged behind the central
bank’s 2 percent target since December 2008.  A slower recovery abroad “is leading to moderate inflation
pressures and low international rates,” the Riksbank said.  The U.S. economy will grow only 1.75 percent over the next
year, with risks pointing to even slower expansion, said  Ramin Toloui , an emerging markets portfolio manager at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond
fund, on a conference call this month.  In the EU, the risk of slower growth is increasing as
governments press ahead with cutting deficits, the International
Monetary Fund said on Oct. 20. The Fund expects the euro area to
grow 1.5 percent next year.  The ECB, which has kept its benchmark at 1 percent since
May 2009, on Oct. 7 said rates are “appropriate.” The Federal
Reserve, which has kept its main rate in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008, on Sept. 21 reiterated plans to
keep the benchmark “exceptionally low” for an “extended
period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 kremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  