-- Senator Rockefeller Presses Facebook, MySpace on Privacy; May Write Bill
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2010-10-26T22:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/rockefeller-presses-facebook-myspace-on-privacy-plans-senate-legislation.html
U.S. Senate Commerce Committee
Chairman  Jay Rockefeller  pressed executives of Facebook Inc. and
MySpace Inc. for information about breaches involving personal
information and vowed to write legislation protecting privacy.  Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat, said he is troubled
by reports that users of the sites had personal details
transferred to third-parties without their knowledge.  “I intend to find out whether today’s social-networking
sites are adequately protecting their users’ personal
information,” Rockefeller said today in a statement. “I fully
intend to conduct oversight and formulate strong public policy
that protects the privacy of American consumers.”  Facebook is under pressure to protect customer information
as it seeks revenue from the 500 million users who play games,
post photos and communicate using the site. The Internet company
said Oct. 18 it’s taking steps to block information that can
identify customers from being passed to advertisers and outside
companies, a day after the Wall Street Journal reported the
breaches.  Games and applications that are popular on Facebook collect
user information which is turned over to the networks that
handle ad placement online and to companies tracking Web
surfing. Such software passed along Facebook ID numbers, which
may be used to obtain customer names, in a way that violated
company policy, Facebook said at the time.  Rockefeller wrote Facebook founder and Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  and MySpace President  Michael Jones 
seeking details about the privacy policies and enforcement.  “The privacy of tens of millions of Facebook users could
be seriously compromised in violation of the company’s stated
policy,” Rockefeller wrote to Zuckerberg.  Rockefeller Questions  The senator asked how the company enforces its privacy
policy, what penalties it imposes for violations and what steps
are taken to avoid future breaches.  “The issue is caused by an inherent weakness in Web
browsers, which automatically share information with visited
websites,” said  Andrew Noyes , Facebook’s spokesman in
Washington. He said Facebook had decided to encrypt user IDs and
will work with Internet browser makers to resolve the issue.
Facebook will respond to Rockefeller’s questions, he added.  The policy at MySpace, which is owned by News Corp., raises
“serious questions about your commitment to develop and
maintain strong privacy protections for consumers,” Rockefeller
wrote to MySpace’s Michael Jones.  MySpace is reviewing the letter and will “respond in a
timley manner,” Rosabel Tao, a spokeswoman for the Beverly
Hills, California-based company, today in an e-mail.  Representatives  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat,
and  Joe Barton , a Texas Republican, wrote a letter to  Zuckerberg 
on Oct. 19, seeking details on who likely has been affected and
how the company aims to change its policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert in Washington at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ; 