-- Rogers Third-Quarter Profit Drops 24% on Competition From Wireless Rivals
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-26T20:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/rogers-third-quarter-profit-declines-24-as-competition-pushes-down-prices.html
Rogers Communications Inc. , Canada’s
largest wireless carrier, said third-quarter profit declined 24
percent as it added fewer subscribers and spent more on current
customers’ phone upgrades. The stock slumped.  Net income dropped to C$370 million, or 64 cents a share,
from C$485 million, or 79 cents, a year earlier, Toronto-based
Rogers said today in a statement. Sales rose 2.7 percent to
C$3.12 billion, compared with the average analyst estimate of
C$3.18 billion in a Bloomberg survey.  Chief Executive Officer  Nadir Mohamed  introduced chatr, an
unlimited talk and texting plan, in July to combat new rivals
Wind Mobile, Mobilicity and Public Mobile, which are targeting
cost-conscious customers with no-frills service. Rogers added
125,000 contract subscribers, missing a prediction of 154,000
from  Maher Yaghi , a Desjardins Securities analyst. Customers’
average monthly bill also was smaller then Yaghi projected.  “New entrants have pushed pricing downward,” said
Montreal-based Yaghi, who rates Rogers shares “hold.”  The company said its “modest” contract-subscriber
increase was affected by “heightened competitive intensity” as
more subscribers didn’t renew their contracts. The average
wireless bill fell to C$64.80, compared with Yaghi’s C$65.40
estimate.  While customers choosing low-cost plans are less lucrative
than iPhone or BlackBerry smartphone users who rack up high data
charges,  Rogers  is spending more to woo them in a bid to fight
the new competition. The company said it spent 13 percent more
on sales and marketing last quarter as it promoted chatr.  IPhone Subsidies  Rogers fell C$3.18, or 7.7 percent, to C$38.13 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange  trading , the most since February 2009.
The shares have gained 17 percent this year.  “Despite an increasingly competitive market, we delivered
solid subscriber numbers,” Mohamed said on a conference call.
The new entrants have had a “limited impact,” he said.  Wireless sales climbed 3.5 percent to C$1.82 billion last
quarter, helped by a 28 percent gain in data revenue as more
customers snapped up smartphones like Apple Inc.’s iPhone 4.
Rogers began selling the device at the end of July.  “There continues to be pent-up demand for iPhone and we
expect that demand to continue,” said  Rob Bruce , president of
Rogers’ communications unit.  Rogers said last quarter was the second-highest for new
smartphone subscribers and the cost of subsidies on handset
upgrades for existing customers climbed 49 percent to C$221
million. That triggered a drop in wireless profit margin to 48.3
percent from 51.4 percent a year earlier. The iPhone 4
introduction weighed “heavily” on margins, Yaghi said.  Profit  excluding some items was 83 cents a share. Analysts
in a  Bloomberg survey  predicted 79 cents on average.  Rogers maintained its full-year forecast from February,
when it predicted adjusted operating profit will climb by 2
percent to 7 percent and wireless network revenue will gain 3
percent to 6 percent. However, the company said that its “bias
is to the higher end” of that operating profit range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  