-- Rosneft Raises Crude Output Target as Quarterly Net Doubles
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-10-26T14:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/rosneft-third-quarter-net-doubles-beats-estimates-on-siberian-tax-breaks.html
OAO Rosneft , Russia’s largest oil
company, raised its output growth target for 2010 after third-
quarter earnings beat estimates on tax-exempt production.  The Moscow-based company posted net income of $2.57
billion, up from $1.16 billion in the same period a year
earlier. That beat the $2.38 billion average estimate of six
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. Revenue climbed 19 percent
to $15.5 billion.  “We can increase our estimated oil output growth target
for the year from 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent to 6 percent,”
Chief Executive Officer  Eduard Khudainatov  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Prices for Russia’s Urals export blend advanced 11 percent
to an average of $75.64 a barrel in the third quarter, according
to Bloomberg data. Rosneft boosted oil production 5.3 percent to
2.33 million barrels a day in the third quarter and oil-product
output by 3.4 percent to 12.4 million metric tons.  “Ramping up Vankor was the key,”  Ildar Davletshin , an oil
and gas analyst at Renaissance Capital, said by telephone from
Moscow. “Any positive news about an extension of tax relief for
this field beyond this year would be a big catalyst for the
stock.”  Discounted Tax  Production from the Vankor oil field that started in August
last year reached about 264,000 barrels of oil a day as of
September, according to the Energy Ministry’s CDU TEK statistics
unit. Oil produced at the Vankor field was exempt from export
duties, Russia’s most burdensome oil tax, until July 1 when the
state imposed a discounted tax.  Rosneft pays almost no tax on oil exported from the deposit
under discounted duties at prices of $60 to $70 a barrel,  Peter O’Brien , Rosneft’s vice president for finance, said by telephone
from Moscow.  Net debt fell 26 percent to $14 billion at the end of the
third quarter, Rosneft said. That is about the net debt level
Rosneft had before becoming the country’s biggest oil producer
through the acquisition of bankrupt Yukos Oil Co.’s assets in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rosneft is
“confident” about reaching its leverage target by the end of
2010, O’Brien said.  The company spent around $6.2 billion in the first nine
months of the year and expects capital expenditure to be in the
bottom end of a range of $9 billion to $10 billion by the end of
the year, O’Brien said.  Rosneft will release a more complete set of results and
hold an investor conference call on Nov. 2, according to the
company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 