-- RTL, ProSiebenSat Free Internet TV Agreement Faces German Regulator Probe
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-10-26T15:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/rtl-prosieben-internet-tv-deal-faces-in-depth-antitrust-probe-in-germany.html
RTL Group SA  and  ProSiebenSat.1
Media AG ’s plan to set up a joint Internet platform for free
television faces an in-depth review from German antitrust
regulators.  The Federal Cartel Office in Bonn extended its probe for
three months,  Kay Weidner , the regulator’s spokesman, said in an
interview today. The exact deadline still hasn’t been
determined, he said.  “There are some issues with whether all the necessary
papers were filed, so we can’t say for now when the period
starts to run,” Weidner said. “We nevertheless told the
companies last week that we will open this second phase of the
probe.”  Television networks are looking to increase their online
presence to compete with illegal sites and offset a decline in
traditional advertising revenue. The venture would provide all
TV stations a platform to offer films and shows online, RTL said
in August when announcing the project.  The European Union’s top antitrust regulator on Sept. 24
referred the case to national authorities in Germany and
Austria, which sought jurisdiction over the parts of the TV deal
affecting their countries. The plan doesn’t raise competition
concerns elsewhere in the 27-nation EU, the commission said.  “We think the central platform, open to all broadcasters,
is in the interest of German and Austrian Internet users and is
in line with antitrust rules,” RTL spokesman  Christian Koerner 
said in an e-mailed statement today. “We’re optimistic the
regulators will come to the same conclusion.”  ProSiebenSat.1’s press office didn’t reply to an e-mail
requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 