-- Rupee Weakens on Speculation India Importers May Increase Dollar Purchases
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-10-26T13:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/rupee-weakens-on-speculation-india-importers-may-increase-dollar-purchases.html
India’s rupee fell on speculation
the nation’s importers will step up foreign-exchange purchases
to settle month-end bills.  The currency weakened as exchange data showed average daily
 additions  to overseas holdings of Indian equities slowed to $195
million last week from $381 million in the previous five-day
period. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  lost 0.4
percent. Share purchases  climbed  an average 43 percent during
the first eight months of this year, compared with a 30 percent
contraction during the year-earlier period, government data
show.  “Dollar demand from importers is picking up ahead of the
end of the month, putting pressure on the rupee to weaken,”
said  Sudarshan Bhatt , Mumbai-based chief foreign-exchange trader
at state-owned Corporation Bank. “The stock market looks set
for a correction and that may cause inflows to slow.”  The Indian currency declined 0.2 percent to 44.45 per
dollar as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has slid 1.1 percent since
reaching two-year high of 43.96 on Oct. 15.  The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, rose as much as 0.3 percent.  India’s Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said at a
conference in New Delhi today the global economic situation is
uncertain and recovery is fragile.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.12 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 44.96
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  Funds based abroad have pumped a record $24.3 billion into
local stocks this year, 71 percent more than in the year-earlier
period, according to the  Securities & exchange Board of India .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Anil Varma  at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  