-- Wind Telecom Invites Banks to Refinance $5.6 Billion of Loans
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t ,   K a t e   H a y w o o d   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-10-26T12:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/sawiris-s-wind-telecom-invites-banks-to-refinance-5-6-billion-of-loans.html
Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA , the
Italian mobile-phone operator owned by Egyptian billionaire
 Naguib Sawiris , invited banks to refinance more than 4 billion
euros ($5.6 billion) of loans, according to three people
familiar with the transaction.  Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
were among lenders that were asked to underwrite a combination
of loans and bonds, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private. Wind
Telecomunicazioni has about 4.8 billion euros of loans maturing
before 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Piero di Primio, a Wind Telecomunicazioni spokesman in
Rome, didn’t respond to two phone messages.  The refinancing talks come as Sawiris plans to merge Wind
Telecomunicazioni’s parent company, Weather Investments SpA,
with Russian mobile-phone operator VimpelCom Ltd. The takeover
is valued at $6.5 billion, VimpelCom said in an Oct. 4
statement.  As a result of that deal, VimpelCom will acquire Weather
Investments’ 51.7 percent stake in Egypt’s Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE and all of Wind Telecomunicazioni. Weather’s
shareholders will get 20 percent of new VimpelCom shares valued
at $4.7 billion at current prices and $1.8 billion in cash,
according to the statement.  Banca IMI SpA, BNP Paribas SA, Credit Agricole SA, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UniCredit
SpA were other lenders invited to discuss the financing, the
people familiar with the matter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London on 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London on 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net ;
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 Fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  