-- HSBC's Vaccine, Green Bond Sales Reach $1 Billion in Japan
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-10-26T03:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/hsbc-s-bond-sales-for-environment-social-projects-top-1-billion-in-japan.html
HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s biggest
bank, has arranged $1 billion worth of Japanese bonds to fund
government-backed social responsibility projects including
vaccine and clean energy programs.  The London-based bank aims to arrange additional sales next
year,  Kenichi Tatsuzawa , chief executive officer of HSBC
Securities (Japan) Ltd., said last week in an interview in Tokyo.  Vaccine bonds to finance immunizations in developing
nations marked HSBC’s entry into the market in June 2009,
tapping Japanese investors’ demand for higher-yielding
alternatives to domestic investments, Tatsuzawa said. Japan’s
Topix stock index has slid about 12 percent since HSBC’s first
deal and interest rates on deposits remain near zero.  “Concerns have mounted in Japan over future economic
growth, the environment, politics and pension money,”  Tatsuzawa ,
47, said. “That’s sparked investor demand for debt denominated
in natural resource-rich currencies including green, vaccine and
clean energy bonds.”  HSBC’s social responsibility bonds arranged in Japan
include Brazilian real-denominated clean energy securities
issued by the African Development Bank, and a Norwegian
government-backed bond issued to finance municipal projects
aimed at reducing greenhouse gases blamed for global warming.  Vaccine bonds are showing strong demand from young Japanese
women in their 20s and 30s, according to Tatsuzawa, and
environmental protection-related bonds have been well received
by middle-aged investors and people over 60.  “HSBC’s socially responsible investment bonds are very
attractive with a visionary investment theme,” said Yoku Ihara,
an adviser at Retela Crea Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Investment
appetite for equities and bonds remains lackluster by and large.
But when the markets pick up, SRIs may attract more investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 