-- SMI Benchmark Declines; Shares of UBS Tumble After Third-Quarter Earnings
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-26T15:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/schindler-holding-swiss-reinsurance-ubs-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks fell as financial
shares pulled the benchmark Swiss Market Index lower after UBS
AG reported a surprise loss at its investment-banking unit.  UBS , which accounts for more than 7 percent of the SMI’s
weighting, tumbled 5 percent.  Swatch Group AG  slipped a day
after luxury-goods makers climbed after LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA said it would increase its stake in rival Hermes
International SCA to 17 percent.  The  SMI  fell 0.6 percent to 6,476.61 at the close in
Zurich, extending its decline from this year’s high on April 15
to 7.1 percent. The broader Swiss Performance Index also slipped
0.6 percent today.  The SMI has advanced 2.9 percent this month amid
speculation that the Federal Reserve will announce another round
of bond purchases at its November meeting to boost the economy,
a tactic known as quantitative easing.  “The markets are probably nervous and will go sideways
before the Fed’s potential QE2 announcement next month,” said
 Ross Porter , a co-manager in charge of $1.6 billion of equity
investments at Stavanger, Norway-based Skagen Fund. “Banks are
a real minefield right now, just look at the mortgage problems
with the American banks and the UBS surprise this morning.”  In the U.S., the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
rose 1.7 percent in August from a year earlier, the smallest
gain since February. The median forecast of 27 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 2.1 percent increase.  UBS Slides  UBS tumbled 5 percent to 16.76 Swiss francs, sliding the
most in five months. Switzerland’s biggest bank reported a
surprise third-quarter loss at its investment-banking unit on a
slump in trading revenue, while the wealth management division
recorded the first net new client investments since 2008.  Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  blamed “very low
levels of client activity” and a charge on the bank’s own debt
for the investment banking loss. Wealth management clients added
1.2 billion francs ($1.2 billion) in the third quarter, the
first net inflows since before the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  “The disappointment of the loss at the investment bank
overshadows the return to inflows at the wealth management
division,” said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at MF Global in
London. “We were really expecting this to be a turning point
for the bank.”  Swatch, the maker of Omega and Breguet watches, fell 1.2
percent to 378.7 francs, paring yesterday’s 1.6 percent climb.
Hermes shares surged 15 percent yesterday in Paris after LVMH
announced it owns 14 percent of the company, with the option to
increase the stake to 17 percent. LVMH today said it raised its
stake to 17.1 percent.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the world’s largest jewelry
maker, dropped 0.9 percent to 49.15 francs.  Publigroupe AG  advanced 2.1 percent to 94.3 francs, paring
yesterday’s 2.6 percent slide. Switzerland’s largest advertising
company was raised to “neutral” from “underperform” at
Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 