-- Shrinking Bank Revenue Signals Worst Decade of Growth
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-10-26T14:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/shrinking-bank-revenue-signals-dawn-of-worst-decade-of-growth.html
Shrinking revenue at U.S. banks, led
by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  Citigroup Inc ., may continue to
fall as the industry heads into what could be its slowest period
of growth since the Great Depression.  After the six largest U.S. banks posted record revenue in
2009, combined net revenue fell by an average of 8 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier and 16.3 percent over the
last two quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue so far this year is down by 4.1 percent, driven by
declines in everything from trading at Goldman Sachs to home
lending at  Bank of America Corp . New laws restricting account
and credit-card fees, as well as derivatives and capital rules,
are also squeezing lenders.  Next year will kick off a decade that will bring the
“worst revenue growth” for U.S. banks in 80 years, according
to Mike Mayo, a banking analyst at Credit Agricole Securities
USA Inc. in  New York . Net revenue at U.S. commercial lenders has
expanded at a slower pace in each of the last three decades,
falling to 6 percent in the last decade from 12 percent in the
1970s, according to  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  data.  “Revenues aren’t just weak for this quarter, or even for
this upcoming year, but for the entire upcoming decade,” said
Mayo, a former Federal Reserve analyst who has more than 20
years of industry experience. “The speed limit’s been lowered
for how fast banks can drive earnings.”  The trend over the last two quarters is hitting almost
every line of income statements and is spread across the sector,
affecting investment banks, consumer banks and commercial
lenders. It’s eating away at profits, depressing stock prices
and threatening bonuses and new hiring.  BofA, JPMorgan  The 17.6 percent drop in net revenue since March 31 at  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, came mostly from its mortgage-lending and
credit-card businesses. The company reported a $7.3 billion loss
in the third quarter after taking a $10.4 billion goodwill
writedown against new debit-card laws.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., where revenue dropped 13.9 percent
over the same time frame, has been hurt by bad credit-card
loans. Revenue from credit cards at the New York-based lender,
the second-largest in the U.S., fell more than 17.6 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier.  The bank’s revenue is also suffering, along with the rest
of the industry, from new restrictions on the fees it can charge
for credit cards, checking accounts and other consumer services.
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 54, told analysts Oct. 14
that the bank will lose about $750 million in profit as a
result. He also said new derivatives rules will cost $1 billion
in lost revenue.  Trading Revenue  Wells Fargo & Co.’s decline of 2.7 percent since the first
quarter has come from its community-banking operations. New
limits on overdraft fees trimmed revenue at the San Francisco-
based lender by $380 million in the third quarter, Chief
Financial Officer Howard Atkins told analysts on an Oct. 20
conference call.  Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, whose revenue fell 30 percent
and 18 percent over the last two quarters, have been hampered by
lower trading results. The two New York-based firms had the
biggest drop of the six banks so far this year. Lucas van Praag,
a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment.  Shannon Bell , a
spokeswoman for Citigroup, said it is “uniquely positioned to
take advantage of growth opportunities in the emerging
markets.”  Drawing Down Reserves  At Morgan Stanley, a fall in fixed-income and equity
trading drove revenue down 25 percent over the six months.
Goldman Sachs and New York-based  Morgan Stanley  posted declines
in fixed-income trading revenue of more than 37 percent from a
year earlier, while Citigroup’s investment banking revenue was
down by 20 percent.  Lower credit costs and a less gloomy housing outlook
allowed lenders to draw down reserves and set aside fewer
provisions against consumer loan losses. That helped them to
remain profitable. Net income for the first nine months was
$39.6 billion for the six banks, compared with $39.5 billion for
the same period last year. Still, some analysts questioned the
growth prospects of an industry that made up as much as 20
percent of the profit from Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies
before the financial crisis, according to Bloomberg data.  “That five- or six-year period during the boom, that was
just purchase activity created by credit,” said  Christopher Whalen , a former Federal Reserve Bank of New York analyst and
co-founder of  Institutional Risk Analytics  in Torrance,  California . “The ‘new normal’ terminology, the cliche we all
hate, is absolutely true. When you’ve withdrawn all of this
credit from the economy, you’re also taking a component of
revenue out.”  40-Year Trend  “We’ll be lucky” if revenue growth for U.S. banks is flat
this decade, Whalen said.  Financial companies have trailed the broader equity market
this year. The S&P 500 Financials Index is up 1 percent, while
the overall S&P 500 Index has climbed 6.3 percent. Bank of
America and Morgan Stanley have each fallen more than 17 percent
through yesterday, while Citigroup had the only increase among
the biggest six, jumping 27 percent before today.  The six largest lenders are trading at an average of 0.9
times their book value, less than half the average level over
the last 10 years. Bank of America’s market value is about 53
percent of its book value, while Wells Fargo is trading at 1.2
times its book value.  Declining revenue growth rates for banks is a 40-year
trend, according to FDIC data. U.S. banks had compound annual
revenue growth of 12 percent from 1970 through 1979, about 10
percent during the 1980s, 8 percent in the 1990s and 6 percent
over the most recent decade.  ‘Not Your Friend’  “When it comes to decade-long revenue growth for banks,
the trend is not your friend,” Mayo said. “Basic traditional
banking is likely to remain weak. It’s a slower-growing economy,
and banks can’t or shouldn’t try to overcome headwind by
reaching for inappropriate risky growth.”  Gross domestic product in the U.S. is projected to grow by
2.7 percent this year, 2.4 percent next year and 3 percent in
2012, according to median estimates of 65 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To find growth, banks including JPMorgan are looking to
expand their reach overseas, where GDP growth rates are about
twice those of the U.S. The bank announced in February plans to
double its 4 percent share of the Asian market over the next few
years and has expanded its global commodities-trading unit
through a $1.7 billion purchase of parts of RBS Sempra
Commodities LLP earlier this year.  Brokerage Strategy  Citigroup, which already derives more than two-thirds of
its revenue outside the U.S., is “well-aligned with the growth
trends we see globally,” CEO Vikram Pandit, 53, told analysts
Oct. 18.  Morgan Stanley is looking for growth from its brokerage
unit after buying a controlling stake in a joint venture with
Citigroup’s  Smith Barney , more than doubling its brokerage ranks
to about 18,000. Bank of America is also relying on its
brokerage unit, Merrill Lynch, to sell investment services to
existing bank customers, both in the U.S. and overseas.  Wells Fargo CEO  John Stumpf  told analysts Oct. 20 that his
bank is making up for lost revenue growth by offering customers
service across multiple platforms -- where they shop, at ATMs,
online, via telephone and mobile banking.  Generating growth will be about “taking share away from
other banks,” said Whalen of Institutional Risk Analytics. “At
best the global economy will be a zero-sum game.”  Loan Growth  Bank revenue will benefit when loan growth returns, said
Christopher Kotowski, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New
York. In the savings and loan crisis of the 1990s, average
annual loan volume didn’t grow until two years after the amount
of new troubled assets peaked, he wrote in a July note to
investors.  Consumer and commercial loans at U.S. banks climbed 0.6
percent in September to $6.8 trillion from a year earlier, the
first rise in 15 months, according to data from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis . That compares with an annual growth
rate of 11 percent from 2005 through 2007 during the height of
the housing boom. Loan volumes peaked at $7.29 trillion in 2008.  “Loan growth and job growth are always the last things to
come back,” Kotowski said. “I know people are impatient
because there’s a lot of pain out there, but I don’t think
there’s a way to jumpstart the process. It needs to run its
course.”  Appetites for Risk  William Rogers Jr., president of Atlanta-based  SunTrust
Banks Inc ., told analysts Oct. 21 that large corporate customers
are using about 17 percent of their loan capacity, compared with
an average of “mid to high 20s.” For mid-size companies, the
rate is in the “low 30s,” compared with an historic average in
the low to mid 40s, he said. The rate of decline has abated this
year, he said.  “I would hope that we’d start to see some kind of increase
depending on some type of economic recovery,” he said.    Betsy Graseck , an analyst for Morgan Stanley in New York,
said bank revenue will likely shrink this year and next before
rebounding in 2012. Consumer loan growth and investor appetites
for risk will begin to rise again late next year, she said.  “We’ve got two more years of slog and workout,” Graseck
said. “We see the light at the end of the tunnel. It’s a faint
glimmer, and it’s growing brighter over the course of the next
two years.”  Operating Margins  Bank revenue in the first quarter surged in part because of
two government programs designed to revive the U.S. housing
market -- the Fed’s $1.25 trillion mortgage-bond purchase
program that ended in March and a homebuyer tax credit that
expired in April. Revenue has been weak since.  Expenses aren’t falling as fast as revenue at the six
largest banks, which is squeezing their operating margins. Non-
interest expenses, including compensation and rent, fell 3
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier. The overhead
ratio for the six banks -- non-interest expenses divided by
revenue -- climbed to more than 60 percent for the first time
since the height of the financial crisis in 2008.  That helped lead to Bank of America and Morgan Stanley
posting the first quarterly per-share losses this year among the
six banks.  Dividend Impact  Slower revenue growth could hinder banks’ plans to raise
dividends. The six banks currently pay quarterly dividends
totaling 51 cents, down from $2.49 in 2007. JPMorgan’s Dimon
told investors earlier this month that he hopes to raise his
bank’s dividend in the first quarter of next year, and Wells
Fargo’s Atkins said last week that an increase is a “top
priority” for the bank.  Banks also may be forced to cut pay and headcount if the
revenue decline continues. Goldman Sachs reduced the amount it
set aside for compensation in the first nine months of the year,
as did the investment banking divisions at Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan. U.S. securities firms may cut as many as 80,000 jobs
in the next 18 months as revenue growth slows, bank analyst
Meredith Whitney, founder of New York-based  Meredith Whitney 
Advisory Group LLC, said last month.  The size of the biggest banks places them at a disadvantage
to increase revenue relative to smaller competitors.  “Size is a problem -- there are four banks that are over
$1 trillion in assets, and it’s really tough for them to grow,”
said  Thomas Brown , CEO of Second Curve Capital LLC, a New York
hedge fund that focuses on financial institutions. “The smaller
banks have other issues, but their growth prospects are much
better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 