-- Silver Subject to Price Manipulation, Chilton Says
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 2010-10-26T17:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/silver-market-faced-fraudulent-efforts-to-control-price-chilton-says.html
As an investigation of the silver
market by the top U.S. commodity regulator entered a third year,
a member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said today
there have been “repeated attempts” to influence prices.  “There have been fraudulent efforts to persuade and
deviously control that price,” said Commissioner  Bart Chilton 
at a hearing today in Washington, alleging there have been
violations of the Commodity Exchange Act. “Any such violation
of the law in this regard should be prosecuted,” he said.  The five-member commission began investigating allegations
of price manipulation in the silver futures market in September
2008. The CFTC said in a report that year that it had received
“numerous letters, e-mails and phone calls” during the last 20
to 25 years alleging prices were being manipulated downward.  The CFTC proposed today new rules against manipulation and
disruptive trading practices. Proving manipulation has
challenged courts and lawmakers since the early attempts to
regulate U.S. commodity markets in the 1920s.  “I don’t believe there is any long-term conspiracy to
control prices,” said  Leonard Kaplan,  the president of
Prospector Asset Management in Evanston, Illinois.
“Manipulation can occur in small doses for very short periods
of time. Adding regulation may not do the trick of correcting
the problems simply because the players are smarter than the
regulators and they’ll find another way to game the system.”  Silver’s Gain  Silver, used to create the first telegraph messages, has
almost doubled gold’s gain this year, beating global equities,
Treasuries and most industrial metals. Silver holdings through
exchange-traded products surged this year. The metal is used in
jewelry and industrial applications such as solar panels.  Assets held through four providers of ETPs climbed to
14,285 metric tons on Oct. 22, the most in at least eight
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s almost
equal to Barclays Capital’s forecast for industrial and
photographic demand this year.  Before today, silver gained 40 percent this year, touching
$24.95 an ounce on Oct. 14, the highest level in 30 years.  Chilton said the commission should release more information
on its investigation “in the very near future,” and that the
law didn’t permit him to divulge traders’ names or information
about their positions. He didn’t say whether prices had been
manipulated up or down.  CFTC Hearing  Chilton spoke at a hearing in Washington on regulations to
implement the  Dodd-Frank financial overhaul , which became law in
July and gave the commission a year to establish rules governing
the $615 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market.  The financial revamp, named for its primary authors, Senate
Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut
Democrat, and House Financial Services Chairman  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat, mandates that most interest-rate,
credit-default and other swaps be processed by clearinghouses
after being traded on exchanges or swap-execution facilities.  The commission voted 5-0 to propose rules that will expand
the agency’s ability to prohibit fraud and manipulation in
commodity markets. The public has 60 days to comment. The
 proposed rules  will expand the commission’s authority to the
over-the-counter market and may make manipulation easier to
prove.  Manipulation Cases  Under current law, manipulation cases hinge on a four-prong
test that begins with proving that prices were “artificial,”
or outside the bounds of normal supply and demand. Then the
government must prove that the accused had the ability to cause
an artificial price, took actions to cause it and intended it.  The agency spent five years investigating an attempt by the
Hunt brothers to corner the silver market in 1979 and 1980. That
effort drove futures prices up to a high of $50.35 per ounce in
New York in 1980 before the commission forced the brothers to
sell off their silver holdings and the price collapsed.  The CFTC proposal today adds a prohibition on fraud-based
manipulation that would cover intentional and reckless conduct
that deceives or defrauds market participants. Penalties include
a $1 million fine or triple the monetary gain, whichever is
greater, and restitution to customers.  The Dodd-Frank legislation also gives the commission until
January to impose limits on the number of contracts a single
trader can hold in markets for energy and metals. The commission
has received  dozens of letters  in support of limits from people
claiming silver prices have been manipulated. The proposed caps
have not yet been announced.  “It is hard to know how important Chilton’s comments are
with regard to the ongoing silver manipulation allegations,”
said  Mark O’Byrne , executive director of brokerage GoldCore Ltd.
in Dublin, in an e-mail. “If the CFTC prosecutes those who may
have manipulated gold and silver markets, as Chilton urged
today, and violated commodities laws, then it could lead to
further volatility and higher prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 