-- Singapore Exchange’s Bocker Faces Revolt on Australia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-10-27T08:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/singapore-exchange-chief-bocker-facing-revolt-over-takeover-in-australia.html
Magnus Bocker, who stitched together
eight European  stock exchanges  and sold them in a bidding war,
is running into a wall with shareholders and politicians over
his plan to acquire Australia’s main bourse.    Singapore Exchange Ltd . posted its worst two-day drop in
two years after Chief Executive Officer Bocker unveiled an $8
billion takeover of  ASX Ltd . this week. Australian Green party
leader  Bob Brown  said he won’t support the bid and Tokyo Stock
Exchange Group Inc., with a 5 percent stake in its Singapore
rival, warned it will be saddled with losses.  For the 49-year-old marathoner, winning in Asia may prove
harder than in  Europe , where he combined companies from  Lithuania  to Iceland to create the region’s fifth-largest
exchange. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG and
Deutsche Bank AG cut ratings on Singapore Exchange yesterday,
citing regulation, debt and ASX’s growth outlook.  “There are doubts that the transaction will push
through,” said Pearlyn Wong, an investment analyst in Singapore
at Bank Julius Baer, which manages about $262 billion in client
assets worldwide. “SGX is paying a steep premium for ASX and
it’s highly questionable if the synergies from this acquisition
will materialize.”  Cross-Border Merger  Less than a year after becoming chief executive officer of  Singapore Exchange , Bocker unveiled the first cross-border
merger of bourses in the Asia-Pacific region, a plan that would
create the world’s fifth-largest market operator by share value.
The offer was 41.8 percent higher than ASX’s prior closing
price, compared with an average of 21 percent for financial
companies worldwide in the past year, Bloomberg data show.  The Singapore Exchange’s 11 directors, including the CEO,
declined to comment or couldn’t be reached. The combination will
result in a more balanced portfolio of listed companies, Bocker
said on Oct. 25 in Sydney.  “The world of exchanges is rapidly changing,” Bocker
said. “This will make us a stronger player.”  His record on mergers will be tested as he works to
overcome regulatory hurdles and investor skepticism. Atsushi Saito, the president of the Tokyo Exchange, criticized the plan.
The bourse said in June 2007 that it paid 37.4 billion yen ($457
million) for 4.99 percent of Singapore Exchange.  “It’s not a good story,”Saito told reporters. “Our
shareholdings will be diluted, with our stake falling to around
3.1 percent. It’s possible we’ll have a loss of hundreds of
millions of yen.”  ‘National Interest’  ASX shares jumped 19 percent on Oct. 25 but have since
fallen 11 percent in the past two days, as political opposition
to deal in  Australia  mounted. Singapore Exchange rose 1.3
percent today, following a two-day, 8.6 percent slump.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said today he will apply a
so-called national interest test to the proposal. The Greens’
Brown said yesterday that the deal shouldn’t go through, citing
concern that the “national interest” will be hurt, while
independent Australian lawmaker  Bob Katter  called the plan
“lunacy.”  “While Bocker has a lot of experience in cross-border
deals in Europe and the U.S., this deal will have difficulty
getting through because the Australian political landscape has
changed,” said Jamie Coutts, sales manager at BGC Partners in
Singapore. “Bocker will have to do a lot more marketing and
convincing.”  Bocker, a father of three who collects 1920s glassware,
started at OMX when the Swedish company was so small he worked
behind a curtain stretched across a larger room.  Quick Turnaround  “He stuck his nose out from behind that cloth and asked
very alert questions,” Olof Stenhammar, founder of OMX, said in
a 2008 interview. “He is a very rapid thinker, quick to act,
extremely decisive.”  Bocker became CEO of OMX in 2003 when the company was
losing money, data compiled by Bloomberg show. He exited
unprofitable units, sold trading software to exchanges from
Helsinki to  Singapore  and acquired Nordic and Baltic bourses for
a total of more than $700 million. Net income increased after
2004, while the stock climbed fivefold while he was CEO.  In May 2007, Nasdaq offered to buy OMX for $3.7 billion in
a deal backed by the Swedish company’s board. Borse Dubai made a
hostile bid for OMX three months later that was 14 percent
higher. Bocker helped broker a compromise in which the Dubai
exchange gave up OMX in return for a stake in Nasdaq. Dubai also
bought part of  Nasdaq ’s holding in the London Stock Exchange.  Track Record  “Bocker certainly brings his track record in cementing
merger deals,” Coutts said. “The core of every deal is
personalities. If the two CEOs have a long-standing
relationship, then it obviously enhances the potential for a
positive outcome.”  Robert Elstone, the CEO of ASX who has known Bocker for
more than a decade, said the Singapore Exchange head has one of
the most “successful track records” among exchange CEOs.  Acquisitions often fail to boost value for owners. Shares
of more than half the companies that made the biggest purchases
in the last mergers-and-acquisitions boom from 2005 to 2008
lagged behind industry peers for two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg’s ranking group. NYSE shares have tumbled
55 percent since March 2006 as it snapped up companies from
Euronext to  American Stock Exchange  and Archipelago Holdings
Inc.  Nasdaq shares lost half their value in 2008 as profit
tumbled 39 percent after losses on a currency hedge for its
European operations wiped out gains from increased trading. The
stock slid 20 percent in 2009 as net income declined 15 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Faster Trading  JPMorgan reduced SGX to “neutral” from “overweight,”
citing the vulnerability of its share price, regulatory issues
related to the bid, and the higher indebtedness that would
result. Credit Suisse cut its rating to “underperform” from
“outperform,” saying ASX’s growth prospects make it
unappealing. Deutsche Bank analyst Andrew Hill lowered his
rating on the stock to “hold” from “buy.”  Since Bocker took over at the Singapore bourse from Hsieh Fu Hua last year, he has taken steps to enhance trading,
including introducing 19 American depositary receipts of Chinese
companies and announcing a S$250 million order processor that
may be the world’s fastest when it goes live in 2011.  “He’s shown himself to be very capable and competent at
these consolidations, but Asia’s a different environment and I’m
sure the skills needed will be different from what was required
in Scandinavia,” said  Bruce Weber , who specializes in
electronic trading and exchanges at the  London Business School .
“In  Asia , his diplomatic skills will be a lot more important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  