-- Singaporean Bid for ASX Makes Hong Kong's Mining Plan Tougher
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-10-27T09:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/singapore-s-asx-bid-makes-life-tougher-for-hong-kong-exchanges-arculli.html
A merger between  Singapore Exchange
Ltd.  and ASX Ltd. will make it harder for Hong Kong to win
offerings by commodity companies and achieve an expansion plan
announced this year, the chairman of the Hong Kong bourse said.  Should the Australian and Singaporean bourses merge, they
would list a combined $484.8 billion of mining, chemical and
energy companies, more than the $390 billion offered by  Hong
Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. , according to data from the three
companies. Getting overseas resource producers to list is a key
part of Hong Kong Exchanges Chief Executive  Charles Li ’s three-
year plan announced in March.  “Competition always makes the objective tougher to
attain,”  Ronald Arculli , chairman of Asia’s third-biggest
bourse, 71, said in an interview in Hong Kong. “Hopefully,
we’ll be able to build up some sort of critical mass.”  Initial public offerings by basic materials and energy
companies reached $24.2 billion globally this year, almost
triple the amount raised in 2009, spurring competition between
bourses. Hong Kong this year showed its intent to seize more of
the market after  United Co. Rusal , the world’s biggest aluminum
producer, became the city’s first Russian listing.  Hong Kong Exchanges fell 3.2 percent to HK$173.40 at the
4:00 p.m. close, worse than the 1.9 percent decline on the
benchmark Hang Seng Index. Singapore Exchange rose 1.4 percent
to S$8.84, compared with the 1.2 percent decline on the Straits
Times Index.  Singapore Exchange offered about A$8 billion ($7.9 billion)
in cash and stock on Oct. 25 for ASX in a drive to compete with
Hong Kong and Tokyo. The combined entity would oversee two
separate exchanges hosting mining companies BHP Billiton Ltd.
and Rio Tinto Group in Sydney and Wilmar International Ltd., the
largest palm oil trader, in Singapore. China’s  PetroChina Co. ,
the No. 2 oil company, trades in Hong Kong.  Mining Capital  “Singapore and Australia stand out stronger as they have
more resources companies, and their combination creates
synergy,”  Danny Yan , Hong Kong-based fund manager at Taifook
Asset Management, which oversees about $400 million, said. “In
terms of mining capital, Hong Kong stock exchange may not win.”  As many as 15 mining and natural resources companies may
sell shares in Hong Kong in the next 12 months, according to a
PricewaterhouseCoopers Ltd. statement yesterday.  Hong Kong Exchanges’ Arculli said the bourse will probably
look “at a broader range” of resource companies, and not
concentrate on one market or one country.  “Our objectives remain unchanged,” he said yesterday.
“It might mean that we have to work a little bit harder. We are
a late comer to this particular sector, but so far, we’ve done
reasonably well.”  Rusal Sales  Other than Moscow-based Rusal’s $2.2 billion share sales,
the Hong Kong bourse also won the listings for IRC Ltd., the
iron ore unit of London’s Petropavlovsk Plc, and Mongolian
Mining Corp. Resource companies raised more than $4 billion in
Hong Kong this year, more than Australia, Singapore and Tokyo
combined.  The biggest offering in Sydney and Singapore this year was
the A$400 million IPO by Australian coal developer Aston
Resources Ltd., data show.  “Hong Kong Exchanges has promising prospects, so it’s up
to the competitors to come up with new objectives,”  Dominic Chan , an analyst at BNP Paribas SA, said in Hong Kong.  Singapore Exchange’s merger with ASX has hurdles to
overcome.  Bob Brown , the leader of the Greens party in
Australia’s parliament, said he won’t be supporting the
takeover.  Atsushi Saito , president of Tokyo’s stock exchange,
said the merger will dilute the bourse’s almost 5 percent stake
in Singapore Exchange to about 3.1 percent.  Regulatory Approval  “There are still lots of uncertainties,” said  Geoff Lewis , Hong Kong-based head of investment services at JPMorgan
Asset Management. “They still need regulatory approval. It will
be going on for a long time.”  That gives Arculli’s company time as it seeks to diversify
its IPOs beyond Chinese companies, which included the Hong Kong
tranche of  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. ’s $22.1 billion share
sale this year. Combining the exchanges in Singapore and
Australia will create a company overseeing about $2 trillion of
shares, still short of Hong Kong’s $2.6 trillion.  OAO EuroSibEnergo, the power utility unit of billionaire
 Oleg Deripaska , is seeking a share sale in Hong Kong valuing it
at $8 billion, a person familiar with the plans said in August.
Brazil’s Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron ore producer, has
started its application to list depositary receipts in Hong
Kong,  Jose Carlos Martins , executive director of sales and
strategy, said Sept. 29.  “The combination of SGX and ASX is a natural and inevitable
development in regional capital markets,”  Owen Hegarty , vice
chairman of G-Resources Group Ltd., a Hong Kong-based mining
company backed by BlackRock Inc. “As for Hong Kong, it will
probably speed up its program to embrace greater resources
company exposure.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 