-- Singapore Exchange Downgraded by JPMorgan, Credit Suisse After ASX Offer
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-26T10:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/singapore-exchange-rating-cut-by-jpmorgan-credit-suisse-after-asx-bid.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. , which
agreed yesterday to buy Australia’s main stock-exchange operator,
was downgraded by JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG
and Deutsche Bank AG. The stock slumped to a five-week low.  JPMorgan reduced SGX to “neutral” from “overweight,”
citing the vulnerability of its share price to regulatory issues
related to the bid for ASX Ltd., and the higher indebtedness
that would result. Credit Suisse cut its rating to
“underperform” from “outperform,” saying ASX’s growth
profile makes it unappealing.  The enlarged company would oversee two separate markets
with almost $2 trillion of shares, making it better able to
compete with Hong Kong and Tokyo, and electronic trading
platform Chi-X Global Inc, which plans to open in Australia in
March. The cash-and-stock deal, worth A$8.09 billion ($8.01
billion) as of yesterday’s closing prices, faces regulatory
scrutiny in both countries.  “The price SGX offered is a bit shocking,” said  Mark Tan ,
a Singapore-based fund manager at UOB Asset Management Ltd.,
which oversees about $12 billion including Singapore Exchange
shares. “Australia is a mature market with slower growth
potential yet such a big premium was offered. Perhaps that’s the
only way they can convince shareholders to agree to the deal.”  Singapore Exchange shares  closed 2.6 percent lower at
S$8.72, the lowest level since Sept. 22. That extended a 6.2
percent drop yesterday, the biggest decline in two years, when
the deal was announced. A reduction in the stock lowers the
value of the transaction’s stock component.  Higher Bid Premium  The proposed takeover is more than twice the average
premium of buyouts among publicly traded financial companies
around the world in the past 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The reasons for the merger are “not compelling given
integration risks, financial leverage and the absence of clear
revenue upside potential,”  Andrew Hill , a Deutsche Bank analyst,
wrote in a report yesterday. He cut his rating on Singapore
Exchange to “hold” from “buy.”  ASX shares, which jumped 19 percent yesterday, fell 7.4
percent, the most in 20 months, to A$38.67 in Sydney today as
political opposition to the agreement mounted.  The Greens Party, whose votes Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
needs to pass legislation, “will not be facilitating or
supporting this takeover,” leader  Bob Brown  told reporters
today in Canberra, while opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  said the offer was “of great concern.”  Confident Of Approval  The Monetary Authority of Singapore will study the details
of the merger proposal when they are submitted, it said in an e-
mailed statement today. The central bank’s Financial Sector
Development Fund has a 23.5 percent non-voting stake in
Singapore Exchange through a holding company.  “We expect SGX to trade on ebb and flow of regulatory
stance on merger rather than volumes traded,” the JPMorgan
analysts led by  Harsh Wardhan Modi  wrote in a report dated
yesterday. “Despite accretive bottom-line on debt-funded deal,
we expect the stock to decline.”  ASX CEO  Robert Elstone  said yesterday at a media briefing
in Sydney that the merger was in the interests of both countries,
and that the companies are confident that they’ll win
regulators’ approval.  “Both parties appear to have done the groundwork with
regard to regulatory approvals required in both countries,”
Credit Suisse analysts led by  Anand Swaminathan  wrote in a
report today.  Even so, the rationale for SGX’s bid, valued at A$8.4
billion when it was announced, is “unconvincing” they said.
“ASX is not attractive in terms of profitability and growth
profile. It is also set to face stiff margin pressure due to
competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 