-- Singapore Industrial Output Growth Accelerates to Fastest in Three Months
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/singapore-industrial-output-growth-accelerates-to-fastest-in-three-months.html
Singapore’s  industrial production 
rose at the fastest pace in three months, an advance that may
ease as a slowdown in world economic growth hurts demand for
electronics and pharmaceuticals.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about a quarter of the
economy, climbed 26.2 percent in September from a year earlier,
after a revised 7.7 percent increase in August, the  Economic
Development Board  said in a statement today. The median estimate
of 17 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was for a 19 percent gain.  Overseas  demand  for goods by Asian manufacturers such as
Singapore-based  Hi-P International Ltd ., whose customers include
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion Ltd., may cool as the global
recovery slows. The International Monetary Fund this month
lowered its 2011 forecast for world growth, citing high
unemployment, public debt and fragile banking systems as risks.  “We expect the growth momentum of manufacturing output to
moderate as the external outlook slows,”  Shirla Sum , an
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Hong Kong, said before
the report.  Production in the third quarter rose 14.3 percent, more
than the government’s preliminary estimate earlier this month of
12.1 percent, suggesting revised gross domestic product data to
be released in November may show the economy performed better
than previously reported.  The island’s economy grew 10.3 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, the government said Oct. 14. The economy
could experience a technical recession in the second half of
2010 even as the island remains “on track” for an expansion of
13 percent to 15 percent for the full year, Senior Minister of
State for Trade and Industry  S. Iswaran  said Oct. 18.  Subdued Recovery  “The pace of recovery in the global economy is expected to
remain subdued for the rest of the year,” Iswaran said last
week. “This will affect the performance of our manufacturing
and trade-dependent services sector. The biomedical
manufacturing cluster could also continue to be affected by some
scheduled plant maintenance shutdowns.”  Industrial production  climbed a seasonally adjusted 5.1
percent in September from August, when it fell a revised 6.5
percent from the previous month, today’s report showed.  Electronics production rose 28 percent from a year earlier
after gaining a revised 32.2 percent in August. Pharmaceutical
output increased 53.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  