-- ASX Tumbles as Singapore Exchange's Bid Opposed by Lawmakers
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-10-26T11:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/singapore-exchange-s-bid-for-asx-triggers-backlash-jeopardizing-approval.html
ASX Ltd. , the owner of Australia’s
stock exchange, tumbled the most in 20 months as some of the
nation’s lawmakers said they’ll try to derail its A$8.09 billion
($8 billion) takeover by  Singapore Exchange Ltd.   Shares of ASX fell 7.4 percent in Sydney trading after  Bob Brown , the leader of the Greens party, said he “will not be
facilitating or supporting this takeover.” Opposition treasury
spokesman  Joe Hockey  said the proposal is “of great concern”
and independent lawmaker  Bob Katter  called the plan “lunacy.”  The stock is trading more than 15 percent below Singapore
Exchange’s A$46.18 cash-and-share offer on speculation the plan
to create the world’s fifth-biggest listed bourse will fail.
Singapore Exchange, part-owned by the city-state’s central bank,
offered more than twice the average premium of financial company
buyouts in the past year in its drive to compete with Hong Kong.  “It will become a political football,” said Anil Hargovan,
an associate professor specializing in legal and policy issues
at Australian School of Business at the University of New South
Wales. “Having a hung parliament won’t help the situation.”  ASX fell to A$38.67 at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in
Sydney.  SGX shares  slumped the most in two years yesterday,
reducing the value of the bid from an initial A$48 per share.
The stock fell a further 2.6 percent to a five-week low of
S$8.72 today amid concern the offer is over-priced.  Shareholder Protest  The initial offer was 41.8 percent higher than ASX’s last
closing price before the bid, compared with an average of 21
percent for takeovers of financial companies worldwide in the
past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the
third-highest among 15 buyouts valued at more than $1 billion.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  Deutsche
Bank AG . cut their investment ratings on Singapore Exchange,
citing regulatory issues, increased debt and ASX’s growth
outlook.  “It’s not a good story,” said Atsushi Saito, president of
Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc., which owns almost 5 percent of
its Singapore rival. “Our shareholdings will be diluted, with
our stake falling to around 3.1 percent. It’s possible we’ll
have a loss of hundreds of millions of yen.”  The takeover requires an amendment to Australia’s
Corporations Act to allow the Singapore-based company to own
more than 15 percent of ASX, Australia’s treasury department
said in an e-mailed statement. The amendment must be lodged in
parliament, and lawmakers have 15 days to object, it said.  Regulatory Approvals  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s minority government relies
on the support of the Greens and two independent lawmakers to
pass legislation in the lower house of parliament.  The transaction also requires approval from Treasurer  Wayne Swan  under foreign investment rules and signoff from the
 Australian Securities & Investments Commission , the  Monetary
Authority of Singapore  and both sets of shareholders.  The proposal would be subject to “extensive regulatory
considerations” because ASX is an important part of the
nation’s financial system, Swan told parliament today.  “So we will continue to consider all transactions with the
objective of carefully and methodically building Australia’s
reputation as a financial services hub and, as always, we will
do this in the national interest,” he said.  The opposition will be briefed by the ASX on the merits of
the sale this week, a spokesman for Hockey’s office said by
phone today. It’s too early to say if the opposition would block
the transaction in parliament, the spokesman said.  Singapore’s Central Bank  Singapore Exchange’s largest shareholder is SEL Holdings
Pte, which owns a 23.5 percent non-voting stake on behalf of the
Financial Sector Development Fund, according to the exchange’s
2010 annual report. That fund is controlled by the  Monetary
Authority of Singapore  its website shows.  MAS will study the details of the merger proposal when they
are submitted, the central bank said in an e-mailed statement.  “It is of great concern, unless it can be proven otherwise,
that our major regional competitor is buying out our own stock
exchange,” Hockey told  Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio 
today. Asked whether there are national interest questions to be
answered, Hockey said: “Of course there are.”  “The stock exchange itself would be acting in the best
interests of its shareholders, and I can understand that, but
it’s up to the treasurer of Australia to act in the best
interests of our nation,” he said.  Katter, an independent legislator from the Australian state
of Queensland, said the proposal is “lunacy on a grand scale.”  Foreign Control  “Soon there will be nothing left in this country that
Australians will own,” he said in a statement late yesterday.  The reaction by Australian lawmakers is reminiscent of the
backlash against China’s Aluminum Corp. of China’s proposed
$19.5 billion investment in Rio Tinto Group last year. That deal
prompted National Party Senator  Barnaby Joyce  to appear in
television advertisements opposing the deal. Newspapers ran
headlines attacking the proposal.  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd.’s purchase of Australia’s
Cable & Wireless Optus Ltd. in 2001 also faced hurdles amid
concern the purchase would effectively hand control of defense
satellites to SingTel’s biggest shareholder, the Singaporean
government. The satellites transmitted military information
between the U.S. and Australia.  SingTel later signed a pact with Australia’s defense
ministry to safeguard military communications.  Magnus Bocker , chief executive officer of the Singapore
Exchange, and ASX CEO  Robert Elstone  said yesterday in Sydney
that they’re confident the deal will win regulatory approval.
The combination is in the national interest of both countries,
Elstone said during a media briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  