-- Six Reasons for U.S. to Abandon Free-Trade Myth: Ian Fletcher
-- B y   I a n   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-10-26T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/six-reasons-for-u-s-to-drop-free-trade-myth-commentary-by-ian-fletcher.html
The price of living in the fantasy
world of free-trade economics continues to rise for America.  Failure to recognize the pitfalls will probably mean a
continuing struggle to emerge from recession, as much U.S.
domestic demand leaks abroad due to the trade deficit, rather
than being recycled at home. And America will continue to lose
key industries: not just the primitive ones a developed nation
should shed, but the high-tech jobs of the future.  Any serious discussion of free trade must confront  David Ricardo ’s celebrated 1817 theory of comparative advantage, whose
tale of English cloth and Portuguese wine is familiar to
generations of economics students. According to a myth accepted
by both laypeople and far too many professional economists, this
theory proves that free trade is best, always and everywhere,
regardless of whether a nation’s trading partners reciprocate.  Unfortunately for free traders, it is riddled with holes,
some of which even Ricardo acknowledged. If they held true, the
hypothesis would hold water. But because they often don’t, it is
largely inapplicable in the real world. Here’s why:  -- The first dubious assumption is that trade is
sustainable. But when a nation imports so much that it runs a
trade deficit, this means it is either  selling assets  to foreign
nations or going into debt to them. These processes, while
elastic, aren’t infinitely so. This is precisely the situation
the U.S. is in today: Not only does it risk an eventual crash,
but in the meantime, every dollar of assets it sells and every
dollar of debt it assumes reduces the nation’s net worth.  -- The second dubious assumption is that the productive
assets used to generate goods and services can easily be shifted
from declining to rising industries. But laid-off auto workers
and abandoned  automobile plants  don’t generally transition
easily to making helicopters. Assistance payments can blunt the
pain, but these costs must be counted against the purported
benefits of free trade, and they make free trade an enlarger of
big government.  -- The third dubious assumption is that free trade doesn’t
worsen income inequality. But, in reality, it  squeezes the wages 
of ordinary Americans because it expands the world’s effective
supply of labor, which can move from rice paddy to factory
overnight, faster than its supply of capital, which takes
decades to accumulate at prevailing savings rates. As a result,
free trade strengthens the bargaining position of capital
relative to labor. And there is no guarantee that ordinary
people’s gains from cheaper imports will outweigh their losses
from lowered wages.  -- The fourth dubious assumption is that capital isn’t
internationally mobile. If it can’t move between nations, then
free trade will (if the other assumptions hold true) steer it to
the most-productive use in our own economy. But if capital can
move between nations, then free trade may reveal that it can be
used better somewhere else. This will benefit the nation that
the money migrates to, and the world economy as a whole, but it
won’t always benefit us.  -- The fifth dubious assumption is that free trade won’t
turn benign trading partners into dangerous trading rivals. But
free trade often does do this, as we see today in China, whose
growth is massively  dependent upon exports . This is especially
likely when trading partners practice mercantilism, the 400-
year-old strategy of deliberately gaming the world trading
system by methods like currency manipulation and hidden tariffs.  -- The sixth dubious assumption is that short-term
efficiency leads to long-term growth. But such growth has more
to do with creative destruction, innovation and capital
accumulation than it does with short-term efficiency. All
developed nations, including the U.S. (which was protectionist
from the Founding Fathers until after World War II),
industrialized by means of protectionist policies that were
inefficient in the short run.  What is the implication of all these loopholes in Ricardo’s
theory? That trade is good for America, but free trade, which is
not the same thing at all, is a very dicey proposition.  There is an appropriate policy response. For starters, the
U.S. should apply compensatory tariffs against imports
subsidized by currency manipulation, an idea that originated
with the  U.S. Business and Industry Council  and was recently
passed by the House of Representatives. Also essential is a
border tax to counter foreign export rebates implemented by
means of foreign value-added taxes.  The U.S. also needs tariffs on foreign goods and services
that compete with existing and startup domestic producers, if
only as bargaining chips to force other nations to play fair.  In 1971, U.S. President  Richard Nixon  set unilateral
tariffs against Japan, Germany and other countries that refused
to let their currencies strengthen. Far from setting off a trade
war, this persuaded these nations to help rebalance the world
economy cooperatively. There is every reason to expect the same
outcome today.  The longer we do nothing, on the assumption that the world
trading system will rebalance itself, the more likely that it
will break down in unpredictable and counterproductive ways.  ( Ian Fletcher  is the author of the book “Free Trade
Doesn’t Work” and an adjunct fellow at the U.S. Business and
Industry Council. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ian Fletcher at  ian.fletcher@usbic.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  