-- SL Green Helps Moinian Bid to Keep New York City Tower From Rival Related
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/sl-green-helps-moinian-bid-to-keep-3-columbus-circle-from-rival.html
SL Green Realty Corp. , New
York’s biggest  office  owner, agreed to provide financing to
help developer  Joseph Moinian  stave off a takeover of his 3
Columbus Circle tower by a rival.  SL Green will provide Moinian with a “standby
mortgage agreement” and help fund the redevelopment of the
768,565 square-foot (71,410-meter) office building, the
real estate investment trust said in a statement yesterday.
A joint venture of Related Cos., owner of the nearby Time
Warner Center, and Deutsche Bank AG bought debt on the 26-
story tower and began foreclosure proceedings last month
after Moinian missed payments.  The deal sets up a possible confrontation between two
powers in New York real estate over a potentially lucrative
midtown Manhattan property. Stephen L. Green’s SL Green
owns stakes in more than 22 million square feet of New York
office buildings, while  Stephen Ross ’s Related is developer
of 17 luxury rental apartment buildings in the city, and
owns development rights to the 26-acre Hudson Rail Yards
project.  “It’s worth fighting over,”  Lawrence Longua ,
director of the REIT Center at New York University’s Schack
Institute of Real Estate, said of 3 Columbus Circle before
yesterday’s announcement. “It’s just a great location,
near Columbus Circle, Central Park.”  Renovation Plans  Moinian paid $250 million for the tower in 2004 and
started a renovation of the mostly empty building, only to
have the credit crisis thwart his ability to recoup his
investment. He stopped payments on his $250 million
mortgage in January, according to the foreclosure lawsuit
filed by a Deutsche Bank unit last month.  The property is 23 percent occupied, and cash flows
are insufficient to cover the debt, according to servicer
notes compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the former home to
Newsweek magazine, which moved out last year.  Ross wants to tear down the building and replace it
with a residential tower with retail at ground level,
possibly with the city’s first full-sized  Nordstrom 
department store, a person with knowledge of his plans
said. The person asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are private.  Ross told CNBC in a Sept. 9 interview there’s “a
higher and better use for the property, so we bought the
note hoping to do something there.”  Nordstrom is “committed” to opening a New York
store, “but it has to be the right opportunity,”  Blake Nordstrom , president of the Seattle-based retail chain,
said in a Sept. 15 conference call.  Joanna Rose , a Related spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the SL Green and Moinian deal.  Recent Deals  Moinian, whose holdings include a stake in Chicago’s
Willis Tower, the tallest building in the U.S., has been
working with creditors for more than a year to avoid
foreclosures.  In January, he restructured about $550 million of debt
on three lower Manhattan buildings, the 180 Maiden Lane and
17 Battery Place office towers, and the Ocean Residences
apartments. SL Green holds a piece of the debt on 17
Battery, Moinian said in an interview at that time.  “We have worked with  Joe Moinian  on several highly
successful transactions and look forward to teaming up with
him to complete the 3 Columbus Circle redevelopment
project,” SL Green Chief Executive Officer  Marc Holliday 
said in yesterday’s statement.  The completion of the project, which includes
reskinning the 1920s-era building in glass, will cost about
$175 million, according to the statement.  SL Green Earnings  The building, located at 1775 Broadway, is probably
best known by tourists for the electronic CNN sign on its
roof that overlooks the circle from the south, facing
Central Park.  SL Green said yesterday that its third-quarter  funds
from operations  climbed 86 percent after it profited from a
debt investment on 510 Madison Ave. The company paid a
total of $180.5 million in December and February to buy
loans on the 30-story tower, then owned by developer  Harry Macklowe .  Mortimer Zuckerman ’s Boston Properties Inc.
bought the property for $275 million a month ago.  Funds from operations exclude depreciation and other
items. The cash-flow measure, used by real estate
investment trusts, doesn’t conform to generally accepted
accounting principles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  