-- SocGen’s ‘Double Liquidity’ Customers Drink Their Investments
-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 2010-10-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/socgen-double-liquidity-customers-drink-investments-a-craig-copetas.html
Indian wine-investment guru Meenu
Kohli’s mantra is don’t get high on your own supply.  “Wine is an asset class,” says Kohli, director of
 Winetage Investments Ltd.  in Paris. “My clients would never
dream of asking for a taste, which is somewhat regrettable,”
the Bordeaux analyst from Mumbai adds, tempted to break her
fiduciary responsibilities with an investment-grade 2003 Les
Forts de Latour Pauillac.  “Why take the risk?” Kohli reckons, sipping reluctantly.
“Wow,” says the former Essar Oil Ltd. executive, who in 2008
left petroleum for Petrus. “This is a terrific wine.”  To glug or not to glug, that’s the question that niggles
investors, who this year poured between $300 million and $500
million into some seven global wine funds that boast a turnover
of about $3 billion, according to Jack Hibberd, 31-year-old
research manager at  Liv-ex  The Fine Wine Exchange in London.  “Eventually, you know, someone must drink it,” Hibberd
says.  So who’s doing the sipping?  “Millionaires and billionaires are the ones who can afford
to enjoy the end product,” Kohli says over a vegetarian lunch
of lentils. “But you only need an annual income of 80,000 euros
($112,168) to 100,000 euros to become an investor -- so long as
you understand that the value of any wine is no indication of
its quality, that French Bordeaux is the only wine worthy of
investment and that the exit from the investment must be quick
and easy.”  ‘Double Liquidity’  “We do have the odd few investors who we send bottles to
for drinking,” says  Steven Lim , chief executive officer of SG
Trust (Asia) Ltd., the Societe Generale SA unit that handles SG
Private Banking’s $100 million Ultimate Wine Fund portfolio in
Singapore. “Double liquidity” is how the 54-year-old wine
investor describes his clients who like to taste their
transactions. “The minimum investment is $300,000.”  Back in Paris, amid the 35,000 bottles of wine in the cave
at  Le Royal Monceau Raffles  hotel, sommelier-in-chief Manuel
Peyrondet wags a corkscrew at those involved in lay-away wine
funds. “They cause great sadness,” the 31-year-old Peyrondet
says. “Soon nobody will remember what a great Bordeaux tastes
like. No restaurant can afford the millions required to buy and
then store a Bordeaux for the required 10 years.”  Kohli’s Winetage is in the business of seeking folks
willing to invest at least 5,100 pounds ($8,076) in the wine
fund. The company’s closely held eight private clients, who
include corporate executives, private-equity managers and
bankers, never set eyes on their vintage investments.  Secret Storage  “The wine sits in a guarded warehouse, like gold bullion
or copper ingots,” Kohli says, pointing out that investment
wine pays no tax duty. “Don’t even think about opening the
original wood case, otherwise the price drops dramatically.”  As for deals, Kohli says the best “short-term returners”
over the past few years have included 2003  Margaux  picked up for
around 700 euros a bottle and 2000 and 2008 Chateau Petrus at
about the same price and now worth 1,000 euros to 1,500 euros.
The luncheon Pauillac second-pressing 2003  Les Forts de Latour ,
which in Paris retails for 157 euros a bottle, could have been
scooped up by investors 5 years ago for 40 euros a bottle.  “Bordeaux is the benchmark and the best thing about them
is they’re as volatile as gold and fixed deposits,” says Kohli,
whose company shuns management fees in favor of taking 20
percent of the net profit on all sales.  Investing in Lafite  Kohli’s research shows that the financial crisis caused
high-net-worth individuals to lose a quarter of their wealth and
become disillusioned with traditional investment vehicles.
Instead of continuing to borrow money against the security of
their remaining assets, many have put their money in Bordeaux.  “A top Bordeaux has a 50-year life span,” Hibberd adds.
“We’ve seen a massive global demand for investing in Bordeaux
brands produced in limited quantities.”  Hibberd says the mother of all liquid-investment benchmarks
is  Chateau Lafite Rothschild . “Only 20,000 cases are released
annually, 250,000 bottles,” Hibberd explains of the Pauillac
uncorked for anywhere between 550 euros and 3,900 euros a bottle
for any vintage after 1982. “The rate at which Lafite is now
being poured is diminishing.”  Over at Winetage, Kohli designs portfolios that include 85
percent of the top Bordeaux vintages. “The rest are my dark
horses,” Kohli says with a convincing smile.  Chateau Advisers  Kohli should be confident. Her investment advisory board
includes Lilian Barton-Sartorius, owner of  Chateau Leoville-
Barton ; Charles Sichel, negociant at  Maison Sichel  and  Chateau
Palmer ; and Jean-Luc Thunevin, proprietor of  Chateau Valandraud .  Investments in 2010 are up 31.7 percent since June and the
company expects to increase total client investments to 1.5
million euros by the end of 2011 from 250,000 euros this year,
according to Winetage’s October report.  “The key to a successful wine portfolio is getting beyond
the usual Bordeaux propaganda issued by the chateaux,” says
Kohli, who got hooked on the market while scouring wine lists to
find the perfect German Riesling to drink with spicy Indian
food. “I go to all the auctions, visit the vineyards and
listen.”  Kohli’s private cave contains 600 bottles. “They’re mostly
Bordeaux, financial instruments,” she says. “Burgundies are
not well developed as an asset class and I don’t want to play
with them on my investors’ money because I can’t chart the same
viable risk-reward ratio that I can using Bordeaux
classifications that go back to 1855.”  Targeting India  At the same time, Kohli says she suspects her industry’s
future in large part rests with the rarity value of the pinot
noir grapes of Burgundy. “India is the next big market for
investment wines and part of my master plan,” Kohli says. “A
lot of our prospective Indian clients insist they want to taste
what they’re investing in and Burgundies are of great interest
to them. In India, you drink whisky and vodka, but you drink.”  Kohli stares at what’s left of the investment-grade
Pauillac on the table and takes a final sip. “You can’t drink
share paper,” she sighs.  ( A. Craig Copetas  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  For more on wine investments:  Winetage ( http://www.winetageinvestments.com )  Vintage Wine Fund ( http://www.vintagewinefund.com )  Fine Wine Geared Growth ( http://www.strattonstreet.com )  Fine Wine Fund ( http://www.wamllp.com )  Nobles Crus ( http://www.eliteadvisers.com )  Wine Investment Fund ( http://www.wineinvestmentfund.com )  Lunzer Wine ( http://www.lunzerwineinvestments.com )  Liv-ex ( http://www.liv-ex.com )  To contact the writer on the story:
A.  Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 