-- Software AG Raises Forecast on Profit Gain, IDS Scheer Purchase
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-10-26T09:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/software-ag-third-quarter-profit-rises-20-raises-forecast.html
Software AG , Germany’s second-
largest software maker, raised its outlook for 2010 as sales
growth and currency shifts helped third-quarter profit increase
18 percent. The shares rose the  most  in five months.  Net income jumped to 45.6 million euros ($63.5 million)
from 38.7 million euros a year earlier, the Darmstadt-based
company said today in a statement. Profit beat the 38 million-
euro average estimate of 11  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.
Revenue rose 29 percent to 275.3 million euros.  Software AG specializes in streamlining business processes
for customers including  Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ,  Apple Inc. ,
and the European Central Bank. The company said profit this year
will increase by 18 percent to 20 percent, compared with a
forecast in July of 10 percent to 12 percent growth. The
improved outlook reflects the purchase of IDS Scheer AG last
year, Software AG said.  “Now that the organizational integration is complete, we
are reaping the benefits of a significantly larger company,”
Chief Executive Officer  Karl-Heinz Streibich  said in the
statement. “Opportunities for profitable consulting projects
have noticeably increased.”  Software AG  rose  as much as 4.14 euros, or 4.4 percent, to
99.34 euros, the biggest intraday gain since May 27, and was up
3 percent as of 11:17 a.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Corporations that postponed expenditures during the global
recession are resuming spending on information technology,
helping sales at Software AG and IDS Scheer, which customizes
software bought from suppliers including  SAP AG .  Second Forecast Increase  The raised outlook marks the second time that  Software AG 
has boosted its forecast this year. It predicted full-year net
income growth in February of 8 percent to 12 percent.  First-half revenue increases in the Americas continued in
the third quarter, mainly in the U.S. and Brazil, the company
said. Business in Germany, Australia and the Middle East also
surpassed the group’s average, it said.  CEO Streibich said in July that  Software AG  aims to double
sales every five to six years, with half the increase coming
from acquisitions. Last week, the company said it’s buying
Teaneck, New Jersey-based Data Foundations Inc., a provider of
master data management. No purchase price was disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  