-- Sony Is Considering Future of Its World Cup Sponsorship, Executive Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-26T11:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/sony-corp-is-considering-future-of-its-world-cup-sponsorship.html
Sony Corp.’s European head of soccer
sponsorships said the electronics maker is still looking at its
backing of the World Cup as the sport’s governing body probes
allegations of corruption in its executive committee.  The investigation into the bidding for the 2018 and 2022
events “isn’t great” for companies in discussions about
supporting the tournament, Sony’s Toby Shaw said.  FIFA’s 
sponsors would prefer to associate themselves with the World Cup
rather than the organization itself, he said.  “We don’t say we’re a partner of FIFA. We say we’re a
partner of the World Cup,” Shaw told delegates today at the
International Football Arena conference in Zurich.  Five miles away, FIFA officials were holding a series of
meetings at the organization’s headquarters following the
suspension of two executive committee officials last week and an
investigation into alleged collusion between two contenders for
the World Cup. FIFA’s executive committee will meet in two days.  Sony is one of only six official FIFA partners. It will
keep that status at the next World Cup, which will be staged in
Brazil in 2014. Shaw said it hadn’t decided whether to continue
beyond then. FIFA’s marketing team was pitching this week for
the 2018 and 2022 events.  “We concentrate on whether it’s right for our business
going forward,” Shaw said. “We are still evaluating the last
World Cup.”  Commercial Rights  The World Cup is sport’s most-watched event and is worth as
much as $5 billion to the hosts, according to a study by the
U.S., which is competing with Qatar, Japan, South Korea and
Australia to stage the 2022 tournament. Russia, England and a
joint Netherlands/Belgium offer are contending for 2018 along
with Spain/Portugal.  Commercial rights to this year’s World Cup in South Africa
sold for around $3.4 billion, 30 percent more than the previous
event in Germany in 2006.  Amos Adamu  of Nigeria and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii last
week were told by FIFA they couldn’t participate in any soccer-
related activities until the completion of an investigation into
their conduct. The Sunday Times newspaper alleged on Oct. 17
that the duo told undercover reporters their votes for future
World Cup hosts could be exchanged for cash.  Four other officials -- Slim Aloulou, Amadou Diakite,
Ahongalu Fusimalohi and Ismael Bhamjee -- were also
provisionally suspended in relation to an alleged breach of  FIFA 
rules. They too were caught up in the newspaper probe, speaking
to reporters about facilitating access to the men who’ll decide
where the tournaments will be held.  The Spain/Portugal bid committee and Qatar are being
investigated after speculation the two groups have discussed a
vote-sharing pact, FIFA’s ethics committee chairman Claudio
Sulser said Oct. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Zurich via the London newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  