-- Rand Weakens as World's Worst Unemployment Revives Rate Cut Speculation
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-26T14:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/south-african-rand-weakens-reverseing-gains-as-jobs-revive-rate-cut-bets.html
The rand weakened, snapping two days
of gains, as the nation’s jobless rate rose in the third
quarter, reviving speculation the central bank may lower the
benchmark interest rate to stimulate the economy.  The currency of Africa’s biggest economy depreciated as
much as 0.4 percent to 6.9480 before trading at 6.9412 by 4:45
p.m. in Johannesburg. Earlier the rand had strengthened as much
as 0.5 percent to 6.8904 from yesterday’s close of 6.9218.  South Africa’s  unemployment rate , the highest of 62
countries tracked by Bloomberg, increased to 25.3 percent in the
third quarter, from a revised 25.2 percent in the second, the
Pretoria-based  statistics  office said today. The number of
people with work fell by 86,000 to 12.98 million.  “There hasn’t been a significant change in unemployment
but it is an indicator of slowing momentum in the economy,”
said  Ian Cruickshanks , head of research at Nedbank Treasury in
Johannesburg. “Combined with a strong rand, which is keeping
inflation low, it might just give the central bank room to
consider another cut in rates.”  The currency has rallied 36 percent versus the dollar since
the start of last year as near-zero interest rates in developed
nations encouraged investors to borrow cheaply there and invest
in higher-yielding emerging markets.  South Africa’s monetary policy makers have lowered their
benchmark interest rate eight times since December 2008 to a
 record low 6 percent  in an attempt to stimulate the economy.
Central Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said last week in an interview
with the Johannesburg-based Financial Mail that a rate cut
shouldn’t “necessarily” be expected when the monetary policy
committee announces its next decision on Nov. 18.  Rand Rally, Jobs  Still, policymakers would be “focused on the data” and
may change their minds if the data changes, said Marcus.  Labor groups led by the  Congress of South African Trade
Unions  as well as manufacturers have blamed the rand’s rally for
stalling an economic recovery and worsening unemployment. They
have argued for lower interest rates to weaken the currency and
boost consumer spending as a means of reducing unemployment.  South Africa aims to reduce the jobless rate to 15 percent
over the next decade as part of a new growth plan,  Collins Chabane , a minister in the Presidency in charge of performance
monitoring and evaluation, told reporters in Pretoria today.  Bets for an interest-rate cut will rise “if inflation
comes out below expectations tomorrow,” Cruickshanks said.  Inflation  A report tomorrow is expected to show inflation slowed to
an annual 3.3 percent in September, from 3.5 percent the
previous month, according to the  median estimate  in a Bloomberg
survey. The central bank targets an inflation rate of between 3
and 6 percent.  FRAs, or forward-rates agreements, showed money-market
investors raised bets the  Reserve Bank  will lower the benchmark
rate next month. The cost of  three-month contracts for cash in
three months  fell one basis point to 5.77 percent. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  “We continue to look for a further 50 basis-point cut by
the South African Reserve Bank at the January Monetary Policy
Committee meeting driven largely through an improved inflation
outlook trajectory,”  Jeffrey Schultz , an analyst at Barclays
Plc-owned Absa Capital wrote in a research note today, following
the release of the jobless data. The improvement in inflation is
due “largely to the strength of the currency,” he said.  The benchmark 13.5 percent government bond due September
2015 retreated 6 cents to 125.46 rand, raising the yield by one
basis point to at 7.21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  