-- South Africa to Develop a Policy for Private Investment in Nuclear Plants
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-26T15:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/south-africa-to-develop-a-policy-for-private-investment-in-nuclear-plants.html
South Africa, battling a power
shortage after halting the expansion plans of state utility
Eskom Holdings Ltd., will complete laws next year to allow
private companies to invest in planned nuclear plants.  The government’s policy on atomic-power investment may be
completed between March and June, Chris Forlee, deputy director
general of the Department of Public Enterprises, said today in
an interview in Johannesburg. “There is no other option, the
private sector will have to be involved,” he said.  South Africa, Africa’s biggest economy, plans to build six
nuclear plants to deal with the energy shortfall, with the first
delivering power in 2023. The government previously sought to
convince privately owned companies to build fossil-fuel-fired
power plants, and its failure led to a five-day shutdown of most
mines in the country in early 2008.  Private companies are currently excluded from investing in
nuclear energy, Nelisiwe Magubane, director general of the
Department of Energy, said today in an interview in
Johannesburg. The policies being drafted will define who can buy
and sell power and build capacity, she said.  South Africa plans to introduce 1,600 megawatts of nuclear
electricity into its grid in 2023 and add a further five atomic
plants at the rate of one a year until 2029, except in 2027.
Eskom, which supplies about 95 percent of the country’s power,
will begin to decommission large coal-fired plants in 2022,
according to the draft plan.  Prefer Nuclear  “People forget about the plants Eskom will decommission,”
Forlee said. Some 30,000 megawatts of power will be needed in
the 30 years following the current 20-year plan and nuclear
reactors are likely to be the preferred source, he said. About 6
percent of the country’s electricity is currently generated at
Eskom’s Koeberg atomic plant.  South Africa “will have to leverage off the balance sheets
of the private sector,” Forlee said. “Eskom does not have the
money, the government doesn’t have the money” to invest in
nuclear generators.  The procurement of nuclear technologies will need to begin
in 2012 and will probably take as long as a year, Forlee said.
Building the first plant may take as long as 10 years from the
start of the environmental approval process to the introduction
of power to the grid, he said in a presentation.  The greatest threat to those timelines will be public
resistance to the use of the technology, he said, adding that
getting support “is going to be very tough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  