-- Southern Sudan Says It's Ready to Reach Accord Over Disputed Abyei Region
-- B y   A l a n   B o s w e l l
-- 2010-10-26T17:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/southern-sudan-says-it-s-ready-to-reach-accord-over-disputed-abyei-region.html
Southern Sudan’s leaders are ready
to reach an agreement with the government in the north to
resolve a dispute over control of the  Abyei  border region
without holding a referendum planned for the area, a senior
official said.  Talks mediated by former South African President  Thabo Mbeki  in Ethiopia this month failed to end a dispute between
President  Umar al-Bashir ’s government in Khartoum, Sudan’s
capital, and the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement, which
governs the south, on who is eligible to vote in Abyei.  If a referendum on whether Abyei will join the north or the
south can’t be held as scheduled on Jan. 9, the region may be
transferred to Southern Sudan by presidential decree as part of
a broader deal, said SPLM Secretary-General  Pagan Amum . He
accused al-Bashir’s government of holding Abyei “hostage.”  “We are ready to put together the package of the ransom
and give it to them,” he told reporters today in Juba, the
capital of Southern Sudan. “They have told us that they want
something from us, and they want something from the Americans.”  Amum didn’t provide further details on what concessions
Southern Sudan was prepared to make. Fathy Sheila, a spokesman
for al-Bashir’s ruling National Party Congress in Khartoum,
didn’t answer calls seeking comment.  Sudan, which is on the U.S. list of state sponsors of
terrorism, has been subject to U.S. economic sanctions since
1997. The area borders Ethiopia, a U.S. ally in Africa.  U.S. Relations  Massachusetts Democratic Senator  John Kerry , chairman of
the  Senate Foreign Relations Committee , said the U.S. is ready
to improve relations with Sudan if al-Bashir’s government
ensures a smooth referendum in Southern Sudan.  The U.S. may penalize Sudan if it fails to work for a
peaceful vote in the oil-producing region, Kerry told reporters
in Khartoum on Oct. 22. The U.S. eased its sanctions on Sudan on
Oct. 20, allowing the export of farming equipment to Africa’s
largest country by landmass.  Sudan’s daily output of 490,000 barrels a day makes it sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest crude producer, according to the
 BP Statistical Review of World Energy . Most of Sudan’s oil is
pumped in Southern Sudan.  Abyei’s referendum was scheduled to be held on the same day
that Southern Sudan votes on whether to secede from Sudan and
form an independent nation. The plebiscites are key components
of a 2005  peace agreement  that ended two decades of civil war
between Sudan’s Muslim north and the south, where Christianity
and traditional beliefs dominate. About 2 million people died in
the conflict.  Talks Delayed  Talks between the NCP and the SPLM on preparations for the
vote in Abyei, which were scheduled to resume on Oct. 27 in
Addis Ababa, have been delayed indefinitely, Sudan’s state-run
SUNA news agency reported yesterday, citing Mbeki.  The next round of negotiations will seek to resolve the
impasse over Abyei in a wide agreement that addresses other
outstanding issues between the two sides, such as the stalled
demarcation of Sudan’s north-south border, said Amum.  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in the Hague last year
ruled that Abyei is controlled by the Ngok Dinka people, who see
themselves as southerners. The Misseriya people, who back the
north, rejected the ruling out of fear they won’t be able to
graze their cattle in Abyei during the dry season, especially if
Southern Sudan secedes.  Disputes between the Ngok Dinka and the Misseriya erupted
in violence in 2008, killing 89 people and displacing 90,000,
according the United Nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 