-- South Africa's Finance Minister May Use Excess Tax to Help Curb Rand Gains
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-26T05:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/south-africa-s-finance-minister-may-use-excess-tax-to-help-curb-rand-gains.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  may announce plans to use higher-than-expected
tax revenue to help the central bank buy dollars and weaken the
rand when he presents the mid-term budget tomorrow.  Tax receipts could be 35 billion rand ($5.1 billion) more
than forecast in the February budget, said  Michael Kafe , an
economist at Morgan Stanley in Johannesburg. Gordhan said on
Oct. 21 that the government underestimated the economy’s
recovery this year. He will present the mid-term budget at 2
p.m. in Cape Town.  Gordhan may be persuaded to give up the extra tax earnings
to restrain the rand after it surged 37 percent against the
dollar since the beginning of 2009, undermining exports and
adding to a 25.3 percent  jobless rate . The central bank, which
lost 1.05 billion rand in the year through March, says it can’t
afford to build reserves more quickly on its own.  “A big concern is the capital inflows and strong rand,”
said  Deon van Zyl , head of fixed income at Metropolitan Asset
Managers in Cape Town. “There’s an overrun of tax, and they may
use that to build reserves.”  Surging capital inflows into emerging markets pushed the
rand to 6.7616 against the dollar on Oct. 15, the strongest
level in almost three years.  Allied Electronics Corp., which invests in companies that
make communications equipment and power cables, and Sasol Ltd.,
the world’s biggest maker of motor fuel from coal, both based in
Johannesburg, have complained in the past two months that the
rand is undermining their profits.  Budget Deficit  Higher tax revenue will reduce the budget deficit to 5.5
percent of gross domestic product in the year through March,
compared with the 6.2 percent forecast in February, according to
the median estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The shortfall is expected to narrow to 4.5 percent of GDP in
2011/2012.  Even as the deficit declines, “the Treasury may need to
stick closely to its current funding schedule” of weekly bond
sales “with the view to using any surplus funds to finance its
foreign-exchange accumulation strategy,” said Kafe.  The Reserve Bank needs help because it earns less in
interest on foreign currency reserves than it pays out on the
bonds it sells to soak up excess liquidity.  Reserves  currently
stand at $44.1 billion. In order to help, the National Treasury
can increase its foreign-currency deposits held at the bank.  Exchange Controls  Gordhan may ease capital controls to add further pressure
on the currency, raising the limit on what pension funds can
invest abroad to 25 percent of assets under management from 20
percent, said Kafe.  “This could potentially result in total outflows of some
80 to 100 billion rand over time,” Kafe said. Most local fund
managers are “currently underweight offshore assets, presumably
because they expect to earn better returns locally.”  Central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said on Oct. 19 that the
government should also consider tax incentives or subsidies to
support manufacturers hardest hit by the rand’s gains, a
suggestion that was raised by the International Monetary Fund in
a Sept. 21 report.  “Consideration should be given to combining intervention
policies with direct special targeted support measures,” Marcus
said. “These could include direct subsidies or using tax
concessions to encourage continued production and or retention
of employment.”  Economic Growth  Tax earnings have increased faster than projected as the
 economy  recovered from its first recession in 17 years in 2009.
Gordhan said on Oct. 21 he will raise the economic growth
forecast for this year from the 2.3 percent estimated in
February. His forecast is lower than the 2.8 percent estimated
by the Reserve Bank and the 3.2 percent predicted by the IMF.  Faster growth may not prevent Gordhan from signalling that
taxes will increase over the next few years to finance a rising
wage bill and a new universal health insurance system.  Public-sector labor unions won a 7.5 percent pay increase
last month after a 20-day strike that shut thousands of schools
and interrupted services at hospitals and courts. South Africa’s
 inflation rate  is currently 3.5 percent.  The ruling  African National Congress  also said on Sept. 21
it wants to begin phasing in a compulsory health insurance plan
from 2012, which will cost 128 billion rand in its first year,
rising to 267 billion rand by 2020.  Gordhan may also increase funding to Eskom Holdings Ltd.,
the state-owned power utility, which is struggling to finance a
485 billion-rand seven-year expansion plan.  “The state is getting bigger and playing a more
significant roles in the economy,” said  Dawie Roodt , chief
economist of Efficient Group in Pretoria. “Higher spending will
add to the deficit. It’s inevitable that taxes will have to
rise” to curb the deficit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 