-- South Africa's Growth Plan Aims to Create 5 Million Jobs Over Next Decade
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-26T12:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/south-africa-s-growth-plan-aims-to-create-5-million-jobs-over-next-decade.html
South Africa’s government said it
plans to weaken the currency, drive down interest rates and
reign in government spending under a new growth plan that aims
to create 5 million jobs over the next decade.  “The new growth path will now seek to place the  economy  on
a production-led trajectory,”  Collins Chabane , a minister in
the Presidency, told reporters in Pretoria today.  Africa’s largest economy shed 86,000 jobs in the third
quarter, leaving the  jobless rate  at 25.3 percent, little
changed from the previous three months, the government
statistics agency said today. Efforts to tackle unemployment
have been undermined by the rand’s 36 percent surge against the
dollar since the beginning of last year, which has eroded the
competitiveness of the country’s exports.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  will unveil details of
economic policy changes when he presents his mid-term budget to
Parliament tomorrow, Chabane said. Gordhan announced the
government’s intention to develop the growth strategy in
February, saying a new approach was needed to address poverty
and one of the world’s highest levels of income inequality.  The new plan foresees driving the unemployment rate down to
15 percent within a decade by building new transportation links
and power plants and expanding the mining, agriculture,
manufacturing and tourism industries.  Industrial Policy  Several components of the plan were previously announced in
the government’s three-year industrial policy, which was
released on Feb. 18.  “The new growth path is a broad framework that sets out a
vision and identifies key areas where jobs can be created,”
Chabane said. “Work will now be completed on a series of
implementation plans for consideration and sign-off by
Cabinet.”  The  Democratic Alliance , the country’s main opposition
party, said the plan lacked vision and substance.  The “announcement of a new growth path has served little
purpose except to create further confusion about the country’s
economic trajectory,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  “It surely serves little purpose to announce a major new
economic growth framework, but to then claim that details are
still being ironed out, that specific interventions have not yet
been decided upon, and that the public should wait until lobby
groups are consulted,” the party said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 