-- 
Compasses for Smartphone Boost Micro-Machine Demand for STMicroelectronics

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-02-18T08:40:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/stmicroelectronics-returns-to-a-third-quarter-profit-on-demand-for-chips.html
  STMicroelectronics NV ,  Europe ’s
largest semiconductor maker, is ramping up production of
miniature compasses and altimeters for smartphones as handsets
increasingly turn into catch-all devices.  Sophisticated smartphones are generating demand for so-
called microelectromechanical systems including motion sensors
as consumers turn, tilt and tap their gadgets for games, search
and other functions. The market for these microscopic components
grew 27 percent to $1.6 billion last year and will be more than
$3.7 billion by 2014,  according to researcher  IHS iSuppli Corp.  “We believe the segment will be worth billions of dollars,
driven by improved user interfaces and location based
services,” Benedetto Vigna, who heads the STMicro’s MEMS
division at the Geneva-based company, said at the Mobile World
Congress in Barcelona,  Spain .  Accelerometers and gyroscopes from STMicro, the biggest
MEMS supplier, are used in one in four mobile phones, helping
keep displays properly oriented and powering gaming functions.
The microelectronic compasses will help with navigation while
altimeters will enable devices to know which floor of a shopping
mall or other building the device is on to access mobile
advertising and other information.  The chips have tiny components that measure electrical
current induced from objects near them, or that deflect the
tiniest bit under force, for example when a phone is moved. The
chip detects the current induced by that movement.  “We see more, different sensors in devices, and also
placed on the body for health monitoring,” Vigna said. STMicro
saw its MEMS business grow 63 percent to $353 million in 2010.  iPhone 4 Effect  STMicro shares fell as much as 1.7 percent in Paris today,
sliding 1.2 percent to 9.4 euros as of 9:38 a.m.  MEMs are still a miniscule part of STMicro’s revenue, which
last year was $10.4 billion. Global sales of chips, used in
products ranging from mobile phones to set-top boxes and washing
machines, are expected to grow 5.6 percent by revenue this year
according to IHS iSuppli.    Apple Inc .’s iPhones and iPads are helping drive demand for
these components, IHS iSuppli says.  “For the global MEMS market, the iPhone 4 was a
breakthrough product,” Jeremie Bouchaud, director and principal
analyst for MEMS and sensors at IHS, said in a Feb. 7  report .
“Beyond the large number of MEMS devices in the iPhone 4
itself, the product’s design has been highly influential on the
rest of the smartphone market, amplifying MEMS sales growth as
other companies move to emulate the product’s features.”  Other Projects  Half of all smartphones now have some kind of motion sensor
from STMicro or competitors including Avago and  Texas
Instruments Inc . and  Panasonic Corp .  STMicro is also working with Israeli startup bTendo Ltd. to
produce a laser projector that can be incorporated into mobile
phones and other devices.  The pico-projector uses a scanning laser and is about the
size of two sugar cubes. It can show pictures or video on any
nearby flat surface without needing to be focused.  Projects under development include chips to monitor
heartbeats that could be placed on the body and can communicate
with smartphones for health monitoring. Another involves a
pressure sensor that could be embedded in a contact lens to help
physicians make glaucoma diagnoses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
dbenaaron1@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  