-- Stuyvesant Town Lenders Buy Ackman Debt to Take Over Manhattan Property
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2010-10-26T21:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/stuyvesant-town-lenders-buy-ackman-debt-to-take-over-manhattan-property.html
CWCapital Asset Management LLC
bought the junior debt on New York’s Stuyvesant Town-Peter
Cooper Village held by a group led by  William Ackman , paving the
way for senior lenders to take control of the 80-acre property.  CWCapital, the representative for senior mortgage holders
on the apartment complex, paid Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP and  Winthrop Realty Trust  $45 million for their
junior debt, Boston-based Winthrop said in a statement today.
The venture paid that amount in August to buy loans with a $300 
million face value in an attempt to take control of the property.  The agreement resolves outstanding litigation with Pershing
and Winthrop’s venture, CWCapital said in a statement today. It
canceled a foreclosure auction planned for Oct. 29 to focus on
“ensuring a stable transition” of the Manhattan rental
complex, home to about 25,000 tenants.  “This gives CW complete flexibility with respect to what
it does with the property,”  Greg Cross , an attorney for
CWCapital, said in a telephone interview. “It gives the trust
complete control protective from any constituency that might
want to meddle in the disposition of the property.”  Ownership of Stuyvesant Town has been in question since
January, when a venture led by affiliates of Tishman Speyer
Properties LP and BlackRock Inc. defaulted on its $3 billion
mortgage and ceded control of the property to lenders. CWCapital
appointed Rose Associates Inc. as property manager on Oct. 22 in
anticipation of taking control of the complex.  ‘Welcome Step’  “Eliminating uncertainty in this transaction, and moving
us toward a clear and clean resolution, is good for the tenants
- so the settlement of this legal dispute is a welcome step,”
New York City Councilman  Daniel Garodnick , a resident of Peter
Cooper Village, said in a statement today. “We are pleased that
CW Capital can now move forward with the tenants on this
restructuring.”  Ackman didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. Pershing and Winthrop, who had planned to convert the
apartments into co-ops, were thwarted by a state court from
seizing the property in a foreclosure of their own. They had
filed to appeal the ruling.  Winthrop will receive $10.1 million of the settlement
payment, the company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  