-- Sudan Plans to Sell State Companies `Without Exception', Minister Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-10-26T14:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/sudan-plans-to-sell-state-companies-without-exception-minister-says.html
Sudan’s government plans to sell all
its state-owned companies next year “without exception,”
Finance Minister Ali Mahmoud Abdel Rasoul said.  “Partnerships with private companies are not part of this
plan,” he told reporters today in the capital, Khartoum.  Sudan’s economy will expand 5 percent in 2010, the same as
last year, while the annual inflation rate will average 14
percent, Rasoul said. The government projected 6 percent growth
this year in the budget presented to lawmakers in November, with
inflation ranging between 9 percent and 11 percent.  Sudan is targeting 7 percent growth next year, the deputy
head of the Financial and Economic Affairs Committee in the
National Assembly, Babiker Mohamed Tom, said yesterday in an
interview. The government is drafting a budget for 2011 that may
be amended if the oil-producing southern region votes to secede
in a January referendum, Tom said.  Abdel Rasoul declined today to comment on next year’s
budget.  The authorities in Khartoum plan to expand oil exploration
in the country’s northern region next year, he said. Most of
Sudan’s oil is produced in the south.  Sudan’s daily output of 490,000 barrels a day makes it sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest crude producer, according to the
 BP Statistical Review of World Energy .  Referendum  Southern Sudan’s referendum is a key component of the 2005
 peace agreement  that ended a 21-year civil war between Sudan’s
Muslim north and the south, where Christianity and traditional
beliefs dominate. About 2 million people died in the conflict
and more than 4 million were displaced.  Sudan will rely more on gold exports next year to shore up
its foreign currency reserves, as it expects production to more
than double to 50 metric tons in 2011, Abdel Rasoul said.  The central bank will regulate exports of the metal by
buying production from individual miners unaffiliated with
mining companies before deciding whether to export it, Central
Bank Governor  Sabir Hassan  told reporters today.  “The intention is to hold some reserves in gold,” he
said.  Sudan expects to produce around 5 million tons of corn this
harvest, Abdel Rasoul said, while cement production will reach 4
million tons in 2011, about double domestic demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 