-- Surging Inflation Spurs Debt Concern in 2012, Swaps Show: Argentina Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-10-26T03:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/surging-inflation-spurs-debt-concern-in-2012-swaps-show-argentina-credit.html
The third-highest inflation rate in
the world is making investors less confident in Argentina’s
ability to keep up economic growth and repay debt beginning in
2012, credit default swaps  show .  Five-year contracts that protect investors against a
default by Argentina cost 123 basis points, or 1.23 percentage
points, more than two-year swaps on Oct. 15, the biggest gap in
a year, according to CMA prices. The difference in similar-
maturity swaps for Venezuela, whose contracts are the most
expensive among 71 countries tracked by Bloomberg, is 10.  At 11.1 percent, Argentina’s  inflation  rate is the highest
in the world after Venezuela and Pakistan, and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Barclays Plc estimate the actual rate is closer
to 25 percent. The central bank’s printing of pesos to weaken
the currency and help maintain a growth rate, which the central
bank estimates at more than 9.5 percent this year, isn’t
sustainable, according to Goldman Sachs.  “There’s a huge amount of fiscal monetary stimulus, so
this economy will get tired pretty soon,” said  Alberto Ramos ,
an economist at Goldman Sachs in New York. “If you continue to
over-stimulate the economy and the investment environment isn’t
friendly, you’re going to generate more inflation. This model
isn’t sustainable in time.”  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for two years using credit-default swaps tumbled to 609 basis
points yesterday from 1,460 on May 25, according to CMA. The
country’s five-year contracts sank to 699 from 1,379 during the
same period.  Foreign Reserves  Argentina’s default risk is declining after President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , whose term ends December 2011,
restructured $12.2 billion of debt in June left over from the
country’s 2001 default and as a record 55-million metric ton
soybean harvest propels the fastest economic expansion since
1992, according to the central bank. Fernandez, 57, took $5.9
billion of the central bank’s record reserves this year to pay
bondholders and plans to use another $7.5 billion in 2011.  The government said consumer prices rose 11.1 percent in
September from a year earlier, the third-highest inflation rate
of 78 countries tracked by Bloomberg behind Venezuela’s 28.5
percent and Pakistan’s 15.7 percent. Argentines expect prices to
rise 30 percent over the next year, according to a monthly
survey published Oct. 14 by Buenos Aires-based Torcuato Di Tella
University.  Economists and politicians from Vice President  Julio Cobos 
to former Economy Minister  Roberto Lavagna  began to question
official inflation statistics in early 2007, when then-President
 Nestor Kirchner  made personnel changes at the national
statistics institute. Kirchner and Fernandez say government data
is accurate.  ‘Inflation Problem’  “The elections are next year and there is the risk the
inflation problem will regain attention and will have to be
addressed,” said  Donato Guarino , an analyst at Barclays in New
York who recommends investors sell five-year Argentine default
swaps and buy the two-year contracts.  Government spending surged 40 percent in September from the
year earlier, according to a report released by Economy Minister
 Amado Boudou  on Oct. 19.  Nouriel Roubini , the New York University professor who
predicted the global financial crisis, said the outlook for
Argentina’s economy is “cloudy” and gross domestic product is
slated to decline in 2011 as the global slowdown may lead to
less exports.  The country’s “loose” fiscal and monetary policies have
encouraged domestic demand and led to high inflation, Roubini
said yesterday in a speech in Buenos Aires.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps insuring Argentine debt for five years
are the second-most expensive among the 71 countries tracked by
Bloomberg. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements. A basis
point on a contract protecting $10 million of debt from default
is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  The peso fell 0.1 percent yesterday to 3.9570 per dollar.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy after Brazil rose 0.15 cents to 12.47 cents, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the government’s
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 15 basis points
yesterday to 590, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
index. It’s down from 846 on July 1. Argentine debt is the
highest yielding in the EMBI+ index after Venezuela and Ecuador.  ‘External Reasons’  Argentina’s bond yields will continue to lure investors
regardless of the outcome of the country’s presidential
elections, said  Alberto Bernal , head of fixed-income research at
Bulltick Capital Markets, a Miami-based brokerage that focuses
on Latin America.  “People who are buying the Argentina story are buying it
for external reasons: it pays you a high yield and it’s a prime
beneficiary of China’s and Brazil’s booming economies as well as
soft commodity prices,” Bernal said.  Fernandez and Kirchner, her husband and predecessor, are
eligible to run in presidential elections in October 2011.
 Mauricio Macri , the mayor of Buenos Aires city, said he may run
for president.  “Investors are clearly splitting Argentina to before and
after the elections,” said  David Beker , the head of Latin
America strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New York. “In the
long end, the elections could be a big changer and it’s hard to
have a strong opinion on what will happen in these elections.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  