-- U.K. Retailers Boosting Online Offering, Deloitte's Geddes Says
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-26T23:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/u-k-retailers-boosting-online-offering-to-drive-profit-deloitte-says.html
U.K. retailers  are developing more
advanced Web sites and own-brand products to drive profit as
they seek to stave off “zero growth” in sales in 2011,
according to Deloitte.  Online is “an absolute essential priority now as opposed
to before when it was seen as something that was an emerging
thing, not high on the list,” Ian Geddes, head retail partner
at Deloitte, said in an interview at the World Retail Congress
in Berlin. Stores are investing in more multichannel options,
which allow shoppers to order a product online and pick it up at
a store, he said.  U.K. retailers are facing a “very tough” first quarter as
the government’s spending cuts,  unemployment , the value-added
tax increase and inflation weigh on consumers’ ability to spend,
the executive said. He forecasts zero growth or a slight
contraction in  retail sales  in 2011.  Retailers have been showing a renewed online push after the
recession pulled their focus towards cutting costs, according to
Geddes. They’re becoming more active in social networking sites
such as Facebook and Twitter and adding more price comparisons
and product reviews to drive sales, he said. Retailers are also
using the Internet as a way to expand without having to invest
in more store floor space, executives said.  Arnotts, the iconic 600,000 square foot Dublin department
store, plans to increase online sales from about 1 percent to
around 30 percent of the company’s total as it increases
marketing and adds a more targeted online assortment such as
home furnishings, Chairman  Mark Schwartz  said in an interview.  ‘Advance Guard’  “I believe we can expand our bricks and mortar but I want
to expand online first,” Schwartz said.  Marks & Spencer Plc  Chairman  Stuart Rose  also said the U.K.
clothing retailer is considering using the Internet as the first
step into new markets instead of traditional retail outlets,
which are more capital intensive.  “I would think it’s a very good way of a business
transporting its brand overseas, it’s a bit like the advance
guard,” Rose said.  Successful retailers will also look at adding more own-
brand products to differentiate themselves and drive better
margins, Deloitte’s Geddes said. Prenatal, the European baby
products retailer, is increasing its range of “Made in Italy’
own-brand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in Berlin through 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 