-- U.S. Consumer Confidence Rose in October From 7-Month Low
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-26T14:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/u-s-consumer-confidence-rises-from-seven-month-low-as-index-jumps-to-50-2.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
in October from a seven-month low, while measures of labor
market sentiment showed the biggest part of the economy will
have trouble accelerating.  The Conference Board’s  confidence index  increased to 50.2
from a revised 48.6 in September, figures from the New York-
based research group showed today. The proportion of people who
said jobs were plentiful fell to the lowest level this year and
income expectations were the weakest since April 2009.  Americans’ attitudes and their  spending  may be restrained
into next year as unemployment is projected to stay above 9
percent.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  is among companies saying
consumers are limiting purchases, which account for 70 percent
of the economy.  “Confidence is still at a very low level and the present
situation is more or less corroborating a very high unemployment
rate,” said  James O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF
Global Ltd. in New York. “These are clearly not double-dip
numbers but we’re not seeing any hard evidence of a strong
bounce back yet.”  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast the index
would increase to 49.9 from a previously reported 48.5 for
September, according to the median of 75 projections. Estimates
ranged from 45 to 53.  Stocks maintained losses and Treasury securities fell after
the confidence figures. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index dropped
0.1 percent to 1,184.07 at 10:17 a.m. in New York. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury note, which moves inversely to price, rose
to 2.6 percent from 2.56 percent late yesterday.  Home Prices  A report earlier today showed home prices in 20 U.S. cities
rose at a slower pace than forecast in August from a year
earlier. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values  increased 
1.7 percent from August 2009, the smallest year-over-year gain
since February, the group said today in New York. The median
forecast of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a 2.1
percent increase.  The Conference Board’s measure of present conditions
increased to 23.9 in October from 23.3 a month earlier. The
share of consumers who said jobs are currently plentiful fell to
3.5 this month from 3.8. Those who said jobs are hard to get
rose to 46.1 percent, the highest since March.  The gauge of  expectations  for the next six months rose to
67.8 from 65.5 in September.  The percent of respondents expecting more jobs to become
available in the next six months dropped to a seven-month low of
14.1 from 14.5. The proportion of people who expect their
incomes to rise over the next six months dropped to 9.1, the
lowest since April 2009, from 10.3 percent.  The report showed confidence rose in seven of nine U.S.
regions.  Unemployment Forecast  With unemployment forecast to exceed 9 percent through
2011, making for a third straight year above that level,
Americans are paying down more debt and limiting purchases.
Consumer spending will probably expand at an average pace of 1.6
percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2011, according to median
projections in a Bloomberg survey taken earlier this month.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week said
there appears to be a “case for further action” for the
central bank to support economic growth and prices. Policy
makers are considering strategies, before their scheduled Nov.
2-3 meeting, to raise inflation expectations and purchase
additional assets to help reduce unemployment.  The National Retail Federation projects that sales during
November and December will rise 2.3 percent from a year ago, the
most in four years. Americans plan to spend an average of
$688.87, 1 percent more than 2009, and may step up discretionary
purchases, according to a survey for the Washington-based group
by BIGresearch.  Holiday Shopping  “We feel good about the momentum thus far,” Brian
Goldner, chief executive officer of Pawtucket, Rhode Island-
based  Hasbro Inc ., said during an Oct. 18 conference call. New
toys are selling well at retailers, and “we expect a very
robust holiday season,” he said.  Companies have been reluctant to hire without faster gains
in sales. Private payroll growth has slowed the last two months,
with 64,000 jobs added in September after 93,000 a month
earlier, according to the Labor Department.  The economy is a top issue for voters now with a week left
before the November congressional elections. Polls are showing
the public is increasingly skeptical of President Barack Obama’s
performance. Obama’s job approval in the week ended Oct. 17 was
45 percent, compared with an average 57 percent last year,
according to a poll from Princeton, New Jersey-based Gallup Inc.  ‘Not Very Positive’  Wal-Mart Chief Executive Officer  Michael Duke  yesterday
said consumer confidence is “not very positive” because of the
high level of unemployment. Toward the end of every month
customers begin reducing the quantity of goods they buy and the
amount they spend, he said at a press conference in New Delhi.  “The consumer in the U.S. is still under a lot of
pressure,” Duke said. “With the high levels of unemployment in
the U.S., there is still an overhang of concern that does impact
consumer spending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  