-- U.S Pushes Sudanese Meetings to Ensure Southern Referendum, Avoid Violence
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-26T00:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/u-s-pushes-sudanese-meetings-to-ensure-southern-referendum-avoid-violence.html
The U.S. is working to avoid the
“danger” that could develop if Southern Sudan fails to hold a
long-planned referendum on whether to secede from Sudan and form
a separate nation, U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said.  Preparations are behind schedule for the Jan. 9 referendum,
a key part of the 2005  peace agreement  that ended the civil war
between Sudan’s Muslim north and the oil-producing south, where
Christianity and traditional beliefs dominate. A disputed border
area, Abyei, will hold its own referendum on which side to join.  “We recognize the potential danger if credible referenda
are not held,” Crowley said at a briefing today. “That’s why
we are working intensively to try to get the parties to agree so
that the referenda on the future of South Sudan and Abyei can be
held on time.”  Crowley said the U.S. special envoy to Sudan,  Scott Gration , was expected to go to the country tomorrow. Former
Ambassador  Princeton Lyman , called in to assist Gration, is
already in the area, he said.  The referendum law says the initial voter registration
lists should have been ready by Aug. 31, with the final lists to
be released three months before voting. Registration is now set
to begin Nov. 14.  Sudan’s state-run news agency, SUNA, said Oct. 20 that the
initial voter list will be announced Dec. 6 and that the
referendum will take place on Jan. 9 as scheduled.  Southern Sudan’s president,  Salva Kiir , said Sept. 22 that
“any delays risk a return to instability and violence of a
massive scale.” A recent study by the Washington-based National
Democratic Institute shows a majority of Southern Sudanese
favoring independence, while Sudan’s government is campaigning
for voters in the region to reject secession.  Sudan is sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest crude oil
producer, pumping 490,000 barrels a day, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy . Most of that oil is pumped
in Southern Sudan, and proceeds are currently split between the
north and the south.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  