-- U.S. Supreme Court Increasingly Favors Business, Study Says
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-26T13:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/u-s-supreme-court-increasingly-favors-business-in-decisions-study-says.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  is more
business-friendly today than it was 25 years ago, according to a
study conducted by a group that advocates for environmental
safeguards and civil rights.  The study by the Constitutionality Accountability Center in
Washington takes issue with comments by Justice  Stephen Breyer 
in a Bloomberg News interview earlier this month. Breyer said
business groups aren’t doing any better than they have
historically.  The group concluded that from 1981 to 1986 the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce won less than half its cases at the Supreme Court,
compared with about two-thirds over the past five years. Numbers
compiled by the chamber show a more limited increase in the
business trade group’s success rate.  “Justice Breyer’s flat wrong in suggesting that the
chamber has always done well before the court,” said  Doug Kendall , the Constitutionality Accountability Center’s
president. “The Supreme Court’s modern pro-corporate tilt --
and particularly its sharp ideological split in favor of the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce -- are relatively new  developments,
traceable to the court’s current conservative majority.”  The Chamber of Commerce’s high court record in recent years
has fueled contentions that the court harbors pro-business
sympathies. The business lobby won at least a partial victory in
13 of the 16 cases in which it filed a brief during the court
term that ended in June. Since the 1997-98 term, the group has
won 74 percent of its cases, according its figures.  Breyer Correct?  That success isn’t driven by favoritism, according to  Robin Conrad , the head of the chamber’s litigation unit. She pointed
to recent decisions giving workers more power to sue employers
for illegal retaliation.  Much of the chamber’s recent success stems from concerns
among the justices about “lawyer-driven litigation,” Conrad
said. “I just don’t think that translates into pro-business,
and I think Justice Breyer was correct when he rejected that
notion,” she said.  Breyer said in the interview that he had done his own
historical research and concluded that the modern-day court
doesn’t rule in favor of companies any more frequently than it
has in the past.  “Business groups have always done well, winning a little
bit more than half,” he said.  The Constitutionality Accountability Center study concludes
that isn’t the case, at least during the 1981-86 period. The
group says the Chamber of Commerce won 15 of the 35 cases in
which it participated during that time.  Ideological Split?  The Chamber of Commerce faulted the study for basing its
conclusions on only a small fraction of the 800 cases resolved
by the court during the five-year period.  “This is a perplexingly small sample size,” Conrad said.
“To me this looks like a theory in search of evidence.”  The study, which will be released later today, was provided
in advance to Bloomberg News.  Kendall said his group chose the 1981-86 period because it
immediately preceded the appointment of Justice  Antonin Scalia ,
now the longest-serving current member. The group based its
figures on searches of legal databases, casebooks collecting
Supreme Court rulings and briefs on file at the Library of
Congress.  A separate Constitutionality Accountability Center study
released earlier this year said that business issues often
divide the justices ideologically, with Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Scalia,  Anthony Kennedy ,  Clarence Thomas 
and  Samuel Alito  tending to side with companies.  Campaign Spending  The court divided on those lines in January in a 5-4
decision that overturned decades-old restrictions on corporate
campaign spending. The same five were in the majority in a 5-3
decision in 2008 limiting shareholder suits against a company’s
banks and business partners. Breyer didn’t take part in that
case.  Other business issues don’t produce an ideological
breakdown. Thomas and Scalia have rejected business calls for
limits on punitive damages, saying the Constitution doesn’t
provide any protection against large awards. Breyer supports
some limits on damage awards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 