-- China Stocks Fall Most in Six Weeks on Fed Reserve Speculation, Valuations
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-27T08:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/huadian-power-international-shenzhen-airport-co-china-equity-preview.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in six
weeks as commodity and consumer companies dropped on concern
recent gains were excessive and speculation the size of a
possible U.S. asset-purchase program may disappoint investors.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  and PetroChina Co. lost more than 2
percent as the Wall Street Journal reported the Federal Reserve
may next week announce a program of U.S. Treasury purchases
worth a few hundred billion dollars. Gree Electric Appliances
Inc. paced declines for consumer companies.  China Vanke Co. , the
biggest developer, rose 2.6 percent as Citigroup Inc. said
property curbs will only have a temporary effect on demand.  “Stocks may be volatile in the near term after such a big
run-up,” said  Wu Kan , Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “Should the Fed not
buy as much debt as expected, that’ll cause liquidity worries
and money will flow out of asset markets such as equities and
commodities.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slid 44.50, or 1.5 percent, to 2,997.05
at the 3 p.m. close, the biggest decline since Sept. 16. The  CSI
300 Index  fell 1.8 percent to 3,403.87.  The Shanghai Composite, trading near its highest level
since April 16, is valued at 20 times earnings, compared with 17
times in early July, according to weekly  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Its 14-day relative strength measure, measuring how
rapidly prices have advanced or dropped during a specified time
period, was at 77.1 yesterday. Readings above 70 indicate a
price may be poised to fall.  PetroChina Falls  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, lost
3.8 percent to 45.16 yuan. The stock reached the highest since
July 2009 earlier this week. Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s
largest gold producer, retreated 4.5 percent to 9.84 yuan,
trimming its gain to 35 percent this month.  Copper declined for a second day as the dollar
strengthened. Three-month copper reversed an early advance to
drop as much as 0.8 percent in London today.  An index tracking energy producers fell 2.9 percent, the
most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups, after jumping 35
percent this month through yesterday. PetroChina, the nation’s
biggest oil producer, lost 2.1 percent to 11.32 yuan after
closing at its highest since May 5.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. , the
listed unit of China’s fourth-biggest coal miner, slid 2.5
percent to 30.70 yuan. The stock had jumped 72 percent this
month through yesterday.  Quantitative Easing  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said more monetary stimulus
may be warranted after $1.7 trillion of debt purchases failed to
spur growth. Their first round of quantitative easing, totaling
$1.75 trillion, lasted from November 2008 to March 2010. The
ultimate size of the asset-purchase program range could reach $2
trillion, according to Goldman Sachs estimates.  The prospect of quantitative easing has spurred gains for
commodity producers as increasing the money supply may boost
inflation. Investors were buying energy and metal producers as a
hedge against a weaker dollar.  A gauge of consumer discretionary stocks fell 2.7 percent
today. Gree Electric, China’s largest maker of home air-
conditioners, dropped 3.4 percent to 19.12 yuan. The stock
closed at a record high yesterday.  Tsingtao Brewery Co. , China’s
second-biggest brewery by volume, lost 1.1 percent to 36.34
yuan.  The Shanghai Composite has gained 13 percent this month,
the best performer among the 89 major benchmarks tracked
globally by Bloomberg. The gauge is still down 8.5 percent this
year after the government raised bank reserve requirements and
curbed lending growth to avert asset bubbles.  Economic Growth  This month’s rally in China’s stocks “still has legs” as
the nation’s economic growth exceeds expectations, according to
 Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1 billion at YCMNet
Advisors. He said this month’s unexpected increase in interest
rates reflects confidence among policymakers that the economy
can weather higher borrowing costs.  “Yes, China has risks from rates going up but they would
not be raising rates” if not for the economy’s strength,
Yoshikami said. “China is growing more than people think.”  Bank of America-Merrill Lynch raised its estimate for
Chinese economic growth in the fourth quarter to 9.3 percent
from 9 percent, according to an e-mailed report distributed
today. Merrill Lynch also raised its estimate for annual growth
to 10.3 percent from 10.1 percent, according to the report.  Temporary Impact  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer,
climbed 2.6 percent to 9.63 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second
biggest, rose 1.1 percent to 14.79 yuan. China Merchants
Property Development Co. advanced 1.1 percent to 19.31 yuan.  China’s measures to curb property speculation will only
have a temporary impact on demand given excessive liquidity in
the country, the government’s dependence on real estate for
revenues and the lack of investment alternatives, according to
Citigroup.  Policy makers have grappled this year with record property-
price gains after record lending and a 4-trillion yuan ($600
billion) stimulus package pumped up growth during the financial
crisis. The government has this year tightened down-payment
requirements, suspended loans for third-home purchases, and
pledged to speed trials of a property tax.  “We believe current share prices have factored in much of
the bad news,” Citigroup analysts led by  Oscar Choi  wrote in a
report. “In our view, policy should not be paid too much
attention.”  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  