-- UBS Set Aside More Investment Banker Pay Than Credit Suisse
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-10-26T14:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ubs-sets-aside-10-more-in-investment-bank-compensation-than-credit-suisse.html
UBS AG , the Swiss bank that added
more than 1,300 people to its securities unit this year, is
setting aside 10 percent more in compensation for each employee
of the division than Credit Suisse Group AG.  UBS set aside enough to pay the 17,006 employees 322,592
Swiss francs ($330,321) each in the first nine months of the
year, company data show. Personnel costs per employee at Credit
Suisse’s investment bank were 292,925 francs in the same period.  “We will obviously try to be in line with the market” on
compensation, Chief Financial Officer  John Cryan  said in a
Bloomberg TV interview in Zurich today. “But it’s difficult to
gauge at the moment where that market will be.”  UBS has been rebuilding the investment bank this year after
the unit accumulated more than 57 billion francs in  pretax
losses  in three years through 2009. The division reported a
surprise loss for the third quarter today on a slump in trading
revenue and a charge on its own debt.  “They’re not generating enough trading income to sustain
that staff base,” said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at MF Global
in London. The loss at the investment bank was “the most
pressing and negative thing from the results,” he said.  UBS  fell  as much as 6 percent in Swiss trading, the biggest
decline in 17 months, after the 406 million-franc pretax loss at
the securities unit. Net income was 1.66 billion francs in the
quarter, boosted by an 825 million-franc tax gain. That compares
with a loss of 564 million francs a year earlier.  ‘Aggressive’ Hiring  Though the bank hired “fairly aggressively,” this year,
it wasn’t too much, Cryan said. “We believe that the business
is scaled to make money in a relatively normalized level of
client activity. So we’re relatively confident that it will make
money over longer periods in the future.”  UBS said the drop in trading revenue was the result of
“very low levels of client activity” in the quarter, though
that has improved somewhat in October. The bank cut personnel
expenses at the investment bank 25 percent from the second
quarter to 1.49 billion francs.  “We essentially have a relatively large cost base in the
investment bank, and we saw revenues being very, very slow,
especially in the summer months,” said Cryan, 49. “The client-
flow-based model relies on clients being around and trading with
us. When client volumes are volatile, unfortunately it means the
results of the division will be volatile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  