-- UBS Posts Investment-Banking Loss, Inflows From Wealthy Clients
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-10-26T15:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ubs-has-1-7-billion-profit-beating-estimates-on-wealth-management-sales.html
UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
reported a surprise third-quarter loss at its investment bank on
a slump in trading, while the wealth management unit recorded
the first net new client investments since 2008.  UBS fell 5 percent in Swiss trading, the biggest  decline 
since May, after posting a 406 million-franc ($418 million)
pretax loss at the securities unit. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted a 182 million-franc profit.  Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  blamed “very low
levels of client activity” and a charge on the bank’s own debt
for the investment-banking loss. Wealthy clients added 1.2
billion francs in the period, the first inflows since before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “The disappointment of the loss at the investment bank
overshadows the return to inflows at the wealth management
division,” said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at MF Global in
London.  UBS fell 88 centimes to 16.76 francs in Swiss trading. The
stock has  gained  4.4 percent this year, while Credit Suisse
Group AG, the second-biggest Swiss bank, has  declined  21 percent
and Bloomberg’s European  banking index  has fallen 3.4 percent.  Net income was 1.66 billion francs in the quarter, boosted
by an 825 million-franc tax gain, the Zurich-based bank said
today. That compares with a loss of 564 million francs a year
earlier.  ‘Unusual’ Quarter  “The third quarter was unusual in that there were very low
levels of client activity as well as a strengthening of the
Swiss franc against most major currencies,” Gruebel, 66, said
in the statement. “This had an impact across all of our
businesses. However, we are optimistic that an uptick in the
fourth quarter will benefit all of our business divisions.”  The  wealth management  unit reported a 15 percent increase
in pretax profit in the third quarter to 492 million francs from
a year earlier, while earnings at the retail and corporate
business rose 23 percent to 446 million francs. Wealth
management Americas had a loss of 47 million francs, compared
with a 110 million-franc profit a year before, while asset
management earnings fell 12 percent to 114 million francs.  The investment bank’s loss narrowed from a 1.37 billion-
franc loss a year earlier. Trading revenue fell 17 percent to
1.77 billion francs, missing the 2.48 billion-franc estimate of
analysts. UBS booked a 387 million-franc charge on its own debt.  ‘Somewhat Cautious’  “With limited capacity or appetite for proprietary
trading, UBS struggles to smooth out the ups and downs of client
flows,”  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein, said in a note. “But as and when client flows
return, UBS should see a material uptick in performance.”  While the bank is seeing increased client trading in the
current quarter, the management is still “somewhat cautious,”
Chief Financial Officer  John Cryan  told journalists on a
conference call.  “There doesn’t seem to be that market-driven impetus
behind our clients’ trading or investing through the bank, so
that’s a reason for some degree of caution,” said Cryan, 49.
“Whether that becomes the new normal for a few quarters, it’s
difficult to say.”  Wealth Management  Rich clients started defecting from UBS in 2008 as the bank
piled up record  losses  in the financial crisis, became engulfed
in a U.S. investigation over tax evasion by some customers and
lost client advisers. UBS also gave up its top spot in the
ranking of wealth managers to Charlotte, North Carolina-based
 Bank of America  Corp., according to a survey by Scorpio
Partnership, a London based research firm.  Since then Gruebel, who joined UBS in February 2009 out of
retirement, hired  Robert J. McCann , 52, a former Merrill Lynch &
Co. executive, to run wealth management in the Americas and
brought in  Lukas Gaehwiler , 45, from Credit Suisse as CEO for
Switzerland and co-head of the wealth management and Swiss bank
unit with  Juerg Zeltner , 43.  In August, the bank hired  Jakob Stott , 55, previously with
JPMorgan Chase & Co., to run the wealth management business with
European clients that hold their assets where they reside.
 Christian Wiesendanger  was hired from Credit Suisse to head
wealth management in Switzerland and  Paul Raphael , who has
worked for Salomon Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Credit Suisse,
was named to run the business in emerging markets. All three
were hired to start at UBS on Oct. 1.  ‘Few More Quarters’  “We’d like to see a few quarters of more consistent
positive inflows for us to be able to say that we’ve turned
around the situation,” Cryan said. “But there are plenty of
reasons to be more confident that the actions that we’ve taken
to improve the net new money situation are now bearing fruit.”  Gruebel has described halting redemptions this year as
“imperative” after wealthy customers withdrew a net 251.6
billion francs in the 27 months through June.  UBS has also now put its dispute with the U.S. over tax
evasion by some of its clients in the past. The U.S. Justice
Department last week dismissed the case against the bank after
the expiration of the 18-month deferred prosecution agreement
UBS signed to avoid criminal charges. The Swiss parliament in
August approved the deal to pass on information on as many as
4,450 UBS accounts to the Internal Revenue Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  