-- Tudor Says Yuan Gains Would Add More Jobs Than Fed Easing
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-10-26T20:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/tudor-says-gains-in-china-s-yuan-would-add-more-u-s-jobs-than-fed-easing.html
Paul Tudor Jones , founder of $11.5
billion hedge-fund firm Tudor Investment Corp., said a
revaluation of China’s renminbi would do more to cut U.S.
unemployment than asset purchases by the Federal Reserve.  A 30 percent revaluation of China’s currency against the
dollar over two years, followed partially by other nations such
as Brazil, Russia and India, would result in a trade-weighted
8.5 percent depreciation of the U.S. currency, Jones said in an
Oct. 21 investor letter. This strategy would create 3 million
jobs in the U.S. and cut the unemployment rate by 1.4 percent by
2014, he said.  A revaluation is “almost six times as powerful in reducing
unemployment as the Fed’s $1+ trillion worth of quantitative
easing,” Jones, 56, said in the letter, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg. “The Fed’s large-scale asset purchases
will have a minimal impact on unemployment that completely fades
to zero by 2015.”  Officials from the Group of 20 nations put off to a
leaders’ meeting next month whether to further pressure China to
allow faster gains in its currency. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has risen 13 percent since the start of September on
speculation the Fed will pump more cash into the economy to spur
the recovery, a strategy known as quantitative easing.  German Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  has said more
quantitative easing by the Fed is an indirect manipulation of
the dollar’s exchange rate and the “wrong way” to stimulate
growth.  Risking Credibility  The dollar has lost about 14 percent against the euro since
June 7. A weaker currency helps job creation by making exporters
more competitive.  Colm O’Shea , 40, who runs London-based hedge fund Comac
Capital LLP, told investors in August that the Fed would risk
its credibility with a second round of quantitative easing
because it may have little impact on economic growth.  Clifford Asness , who runs AQR Capital Management LLC, said he doesn’t
expect any long-term effects from such a move.  “Us printing money to buy our own bonds I don’t think can
matter long term,” Asness said today in an interview with
Bloomberg News at the Buttonwood Gathering, a conference
organized by the Economist magazine in New York.  Jones said more purchases of Treasuries by the central bank
may perpetuate a bubble in bonds. Failure to loosen the currency
peg will perpetuate a situation where China recycles its trade
surpluses into Treasuries, encouraging the U.S. government to
borrow more, he wrote.  Greece’s Example  “If we maintain the status quo, what will be the probable
outcome a decade from now? Look no further than Greece for the
answer,” Jones said. “The U.S. could achieve similar public
debt levels between 2020 and 2025, or sooner, under a broad
definition of government debt.”  Jones, who declined to comment for this story, said the
renminbi may be undervalued by as much as 60 percent, when
looking at absolute purchasing power.  “In modern times, there never has been free trade with
China,” Jones said in the letter. “The United States lost six
million jobs, indebted itself to China by $1.4 trillion, and
received in return a host of consumer goods, many of which now
reside in landfills across the country.”  Jones, who started Greenwich, Connecticut-based Tudor in
1983, said rebalancing through revaluation may prevent bubbles,
or excessive price gains, from forming in a variety of assets
from stocks to  metals .  Tudor’s Returns  Jones said he expects India’s S&P CNX  Nifty  Index, a
selection of emerging-market consumer stocks, gold, copper,
grains and U.S. 10-year Treasuries, to gain into next year. He
said the government bonds would help protect against
“inevitable” declines in stocks and metals.  Tudor’s biggest fund, BVI Global, returned 5 percent this
year through Oct. 8, according to a person briefed on the
returns who asked not to be named because the results weren’t
public. The HFRX Macro Index has lost 2.12 percent in the same
period, according to data compiled by Chicago-based Hedge Fund
Research Inc.  Macro-fund managers seek to profit from broad economic
trends by trading everything from bonds to commodities.  BVI Global returned an annual average of 21 percent from
its inception in 1986 through September, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  