-- Mukherjee Says India Needs Anti-Inflation Steps Ahead of RBI Rate Decision
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-10-26T13:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/mukherjee-says-india-needs-anti-inflation-steps-ahead-of-rbi-rate-decision.html
India must continue with steps to
cool inflation, currently at double the “ideal” level, Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee said, ahead of the central bank’s
monetary policy decision next week.  “This is an area of concern and we shall have to continue
to take steps to ensure that prices are moderated,” Mukherjee
said at the Economic Editors’ Conference in New Delhi today.
“It will be ideal if we have 4 to 5 percent  inflation , but it
may be difficult.” He didn’t elaborate on the steps required.  Ten-year government bond yields are trading at a two-year
high on speculation central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao may
raise interest rates for a sixth time on Nov. 2. The benchmark
wholesale-price  inflation rate  climbed to 8.62 percent in
September, an increase Mukherjee said was driven by food prices.  “The Reserve Bank will remain focused on curbing inflation
and inflationary expectations,” said  Deepali Bhargava , a
strategist at ING Groep NV in Mumbai. She expects the central
bank to raise rates by a quarter-point next month.  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due May 2020 rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.18 percent as of
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai today. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s
 Sensitive Index  fell 0.4 percent to 20,221.39 while the rupee
declined 0.2 percent to 44.45 against the dollar.  ‘Structural’ Problems  Persistent increases in commodity prices will spur the
“potential rate of inflation” over a period of time, Reserve
Bank of India Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said in Mumbai today.
He said India is experiencing a “structural” food price shock.  “From a monetary policy perspective, the conventional view
of food prices is that surges are temporary, driven by supply
disruptions that at worst last one season as conditions return
to normal, like they usually do,” he said. If monetary
instruments are used to deal with such price shocks they have no
impact on the immediate cause of the problem while possibly
doing damage to the growth process, he said.  Food inflation has remained  above 10 percent  since June
2009 as the government increased prices it pays farmers for
grains each year since 2004, according to the Planning
Commission, which sets growth and investment targets in India.  The government’s minimum support price, or prices it
guarantees farmers for their crop, has almost doubled in the
past six years for rice, maize and wheat, according to farm
ministry data.  The central bank last increased rates on Sept. 16. The
bank’s  reverse repurchase rate  is 5 percent and the repurchase
rate is 6 percent.  Food Prices  Inflation is accelerating because of a surge in the prices
of vegetables, fruits, wheat, rice, pulses, milk, edible oil and
sugar, Mukherjee said.  “There is no doubt it has affected family budgets,”
Mukherjee said, adding inflation may slow to 6 percent by the
end of March.  The rupee has gained about 4 percent against the dollar
since Aug. 1, helping cut import costs, as global funds pumped a
record $25 billion into Indian stocks this year on optimism
about the South Asian nation’s growth prospects.  Mukherjee said India’s  economy  may expand 8.5 percent in
the year ending March 31 and accelerate to a 9 percent pace in
the “near future.”  The minister said the central bank will intervene in the
currency market “as and when required” and ruled out any plans
to curb foreign capital inflows. He said a strong rupee will
have “implications” for exports.  “At this time, I am not thinking of putting any cap on
foreign institutional investors because I know that if I have up
to $45 billion to $50 billion of FII money, that will be an
insurance against the  current-account deficit ,” Mukherjee said.  India’s current-account deficit widened to a record $13.7
billion in the three months ended June 30 as an accelerating
economy boosted imports of oil and machinery.  Mukherjee said he plans to contain the shortfall to between
3 percent and 3.5 percent of gross domestic product. The gap was
2.9 percent of GDP in the year ended March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 