-- Ukraine Wants Postponement of Changes as Part of Free-Trade Accord With EU
-- B y   J a m e s   N e u g e r   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2010-10-26T11:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/ukraine-wants-postponement-of-changes-as-part-of-free-trade-accord-with-eu.html
Ukraine said it wants to delay the
elimination of duties on imported cars and increase grain-export
quotas to the European Union as part of its free-trade agreement
with the 27-member bloc.  The former Soviet state “needs to have a timeline for
adapting industries that provide jobs for hundreds of thousands
of people so we would not have catastrophic results” because of
the elimination of tariffs, the country’s Foreign Minister
 Kostyantyn Gryshchenko  said in an interview today in Brussels.
“We would like to have this elimination in stages that would
provide time necessary for the industry to adapt.”  Ukraine will miss the target date during a November summit
for signing the so-called association agreement, which allows
free trade and visa-free travel, with the EU for a second year.
The country of 46 million people, sandwiched between Russia and
the EU, wants to join the bloc and the association agreement is
“seen by Ukraine as a major step forward toward the goal of
full integration,” Gryshchenko said.  “It’s always difficult when you are negotiating and not
dictating to say exactly when you will reach a level of
understanding of both sides,” he said.  The EU wants to set too low a quota for Ukraine’s barley
exports, Gryshchenko said. Ukraine was the world’s biggest
barley exporter before introducing limits on shipments this
month to avoid shortages on the domestic market after a dry
summer damaged this year’s crops.  “Insisting on an abysmally small quota doesn’t really help
to move ahead with the agenda,” he said.  Gryshchenko reiterated Ukraine will be a reliable
transporter of Russian natural gas to Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net ; 