-- Lula Saps Bond Market as Trading Shrivels on Tax Increase: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a t i a n a   B a u t z e r
-- 2010-10-26T18:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/lula-saps-bond-market-as-trading-shrivels-on-tax-increases-brazil-credit.html
Trading in Brazil’s longest-maturity
bonds is drying up after President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva 
tripled a tax on foreigners’ purchases of local debt.  Daily average trading of fixed-rate bonds due 2021 has
tumbled 62 percent to 172 million reais ($101 million) since
Lula raised the tax for a second time this month on Oct. 18 in a
bid to stem a currency rally, according to the capital markets
association, known as Anbima. Trading averaged 454 million reais
in the first 11 business days of the month and 354 million reais
in September.  The yield on the 2021 bonds soared to the highest ever
relative to the country’s interest-rate futures contracts, a
sign investors are demanding bigger returns in exchange for
buying securities that are becoming harder to sell in the
secondary market. Trading in the bonds due in 2021 has been hurt
the most because foreigners owned 49 percent of the notes as of
April, five times the 10 percent stake they have in local
government debt overall, according to the Treasury.  “With foreign investors out, the trend is for very low
liquidity,” David Rocha, a trader at Renascenca DTVM Ltda., one
of 14 dealers that trade directly with the Brazilian Treasury
and central bank, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  A Finance Ministry official who asked not to be identified
in accordance with government policy declined to comment.  Yields on the 10 percent bonds due in 2021 jumped 59 basis
points, or 0.59 percentage point, since Oct. 18 to 12.18 percent
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on the
overnight interbank futures contract due that same year rose 45
basis points over that same time to 11.75 percent.  ‘On the Sidelines’  The 43 basis-point yield differential between the two
securities is the widest since the government began selling the
2021 bonds in February. The gap was 25 basis points at the end
of September, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Foreign investors are still on the sidelines,” said
Paulo Rebuzzi, a fixed-income analyst at Corretora Ativa, a
dealer in Sao Paulo. “We see some trades with local asset
managers selling, but not a normal liquidity throughout the
day.”  Lula raised the tax on foreigners’ fixed-income purchases
to 6 percent on Oct. 18 after a doubling of the rate to 4
percent on Oct. 4 failed to stem the real’s advance. The
currency has surged 32 percent in the past two years as Brazil’s
interest rates, the second highest in the world in inflation-
adjusted terms after Croatia, lured foreign investors.  Rising Rates  Brazilian central bankers have boosted the  benchmark
overnight lending  rate 200 basis points since April to 10.75
percent to prevent the fastest economic expansion in two decades
from fueling inflation. Key lending rates in the U.S., Europe
and Japan, by comparison, are no more than 1 percent. Brazilian
bank lending expanded 19.6 percent in September from a year
earlier, cementing bets the central bank will need to raise
interest rates again next year.  The real’s rally extends its gain since Lula took office in
2003 to 108 percent, curbing exports and helping swell the
annual  current account deficit  to a record $47 billion.  The real weakened 0.5 percent to 1.7040 per dollar at 2:12
p.m. New York time today, paring its advance this year to 2.4
percent.  Extending Maturities  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia
yesterday that the real’s slide since the tax increase, a move
he says was taken in response to countries’ push to weaken their
currencies, has been “good.” He said the government isn’t
considering applying a tax on foreigners’ income investment from
bonds, denying a report in O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper.  “The market almost came to a halt” yesterday on concern
the government would implement more taxes, Rocha said.  Brazil plans to extend its bond maturities and turn the
notes due in 2021 into “the new 10-year benchmark,” the
Treasury said in its annual borrowing plan in January. Fixed-
rate bonds due in 2015 and longer have accounted for 7 percent
of the overall trading in local government debt this year,
according to Sao Paulo-based Anbima.  The government extended the average maturity on its fixed-
rated debt to 2.4 years in September from less than one year at
the end of 2004, according to  the Treasury .  Default Insurance  The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell five basis points today to 11.36 percent,
indicating traders expect policy makers to raise the rate to
about 12.5 percent by then. The  extra yield  investors demand to
own Brazilian government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries
dropped five basis points today to 173.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps slid three basis points
to 96 basis points yesterday, according to data compiled by CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Treasury officials rejected all bids on the bonds due in
2021 at an Oct. 21 auction for the first time in three months
after the tax increase curbed demand. Yesterday’s secondary-
market yield of 12.25 percent on the securities was the highest
since July. Treasury Secretary  Arno Augustin  said in an
interview on Oct. 21 that the yield bids were “unreasonable.”  “Investors will only bring new money if they know what the
final tax rate is that they are paying,” Rocha said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tatiana Bautzer  in Sao Paulo at 
 tbautzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  