-- Hungarian Lawmakers Approve Suspension of Private Pension Fund Transfers
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-26T09:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/hungarian-lawmakers-approve-suspension-of-private-pension-fund-transfers.html
Hungary’s parliament approved the
suspension of social security payment transfers to private
pension funds as the government seeks to meet a deficit goal
approved by the nation’s creditors.  Lawmakers voted late yesterday 250 votes to 11 against with
41 abstentions to approve the bill that will keep pension
payments within the state budget from Nov. 1 through the end of
2011, according to parliament’s  website .  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is under pressure from the
European Union to narrow the budget  deficit  to 3.8 percent of
economic output this year and less than 3 percent next year.
Orban, elected in April on promises to end five years of
austerity, has also levied special “crisis” taxes on several
industries to boost budget revenue.  The redirection of pension payments, deducted monthly from
the paychecks of all employees, will yield about 420 billion
forint ($2.1 billion) in extra budget revenue over the next 14
months, Orban said this month.  The central bank and the  International Monetary Fund , which
led a 2008 bailout, yesterday said suspending the transfer of
pension payments may endanger the stability of the financial
industry and have a negative impact on markets.  Lawmakers also abolished a rule that required young people
to enter private pension funds at the time of starting their
careers, giving them a choice of joining the state’s system,
according to the legislature’s website.  Foreign-Currency Mortgages  Parliament also passed regulations yesterday to aid
borrowers hurt by the forint’s weakening against the Swiss
franc. The forint’s 14 percent slump against the Alpine currency
over the past year stoked concern that defaults on franc-
denominated loans may rise.  The bill bans banks from unilaterally changing loan
agreements to the “detriment” of borrowers or “arbitrarily”
increasing interest rates. The law also requires lenders to use
their own or the central bank’s mid-rate for currency
conversions on loan payments, according to the text of the law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  