-- UniCredit Names Nicastro General Manager; Investment Bank Chief to Resign
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-10-26T17:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/unicredit-names-nicastro-general-manager-investment-bank-chief-to-resign.html
UniCredit SpA  appointed Deputy Chief
Executive Officer  Roberto Nicastro  to a new position of general
manager in an attempt to smooth relations with investors, while
 Sergio Ermotti , head of the investment bank, decided to step
down after the management shakeup.  Nicastro will oversee the commercial banking business,
private banking and the global transactions unit, the Milan-
based lender said in a statement today.  Paolo Fiorentino , a
deputy CEO, was named chief operating officer, while Ermotti
will leave once a replacement is found.  Ermotti was in the running for the role of general manager,
the No. 2 executive position at Italy’s biggest bank.  CEO  Federico Ghizzoni , 55, who replaced  Alessandro Profumo 
last month, is putting in place a new  management  structure in an
effort to end the investor infighting that led to Profumo’s
ouster following clashes with Italian banking foundations.
Shareholders, including Fondazione Cassamarca, urged Italy’s
biggest bank to create a general manager position to focus on
local issues.  “This is an indication of the direction UniCredit will
take, more toward retail banking than investment banking,” said
 Angelo Manca  a portfolio manager at Ockham Capital Partners in
London. “Shareholders in the end give the strategic direction
to the business,” he said.  Investment Banking  Nicastro, 45, who was considered for the CEO job last
month, is a former McKinsey & Co. consultant and joined Credito
Italiano as head of planning in 1997. In 2003 he was appointed
head of the bank’s retail division and became one of the deputy
CEOs in 2007.  He beat out 50-year-old Ermotti, a Swiss national who
worked 18 years at Merrill Lynch and joined UniCredit in 2005 as
head of its markets and investment banking division. He was
named a deputy CEO in July 2007.  As investment banking chief Ermotti, he also supervised
global transaction and private banking, which now will be
shifted to Nicastro’s unit. Ermotti had aimed to compete with
the world’s top securities firms as mergers soared and business
flourished before the subprime crisis spread and credit became
scarce. UniCredit in 2007 helped finance Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
& Co.’s 10.1 billion-pound ($16 billion) bid for Alliance Boots
Plc. He later scaled back the plan to focus on corporate and
investment banking business in the lender’s home markets.  The Italian bank last year ranked 20th among merger
advisers in its four core markets of Italy, Germany, Poland and
Austria. Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs were the top two
banks. In contrast, UniCredit was the top loan arranger in
Italy, Germany, Poland and Austria last year, the data show.  UniCredit helped manage the $1.3 billion IPO of Tauron
Polska Energia SA in June and is among the banks managing Enel
Green Power SpA’s 3.4 billion-euro IPO.  “Ermotti’s exit may hurt the stock in the short term
because he was liked by the market,” said  Massimiliano Romano ,
head of research at Concentric Italy in Milan.  Foundations  Pretax profit at the corporate and investment banking unit
rose to 1.6 billion euros ($2.2 billion) in the first half from
1.2 billion euros in the year-earlier period, UniCredit said in
August.  Italian banking foundations, which own more than 11 percent
of UniCredit, have been pressing for a more active role in
management decisions. Former CEO Profumo, 53, stepped down after
relations soured with some investors, including Fondazione
Cariverona, which complained that he didn’t consult them before
making key decisions.  The tension with the banking foundations increased after
one of two Libyan investors raised its holdings, ultimately
forcing Profumo to quit at a Sept. 21 board meeting.  The regional institutions, which in total oversee 49
billion euros of assets, use money generated by their holdings
in banks to fund philanthropic programs at schools and museums.
They are partly run by politicians who advocate more investment
at home.  The board also created a new chief operating officer
position. Fiorentino will report to Ghizzoni and will be
responsible for operations, information technology, human
resources and communications.  Fiorentino, 54, started his professional career in Credito
Italiano in 1981 dealing with retail and corporate customers. In
August 2003 he was appointed deputy general manager of the
company’s New Europe division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 sirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  