-- Firemen's Union Says Talks to Avert London Bonfire Night Strike Break Down
-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2010-10-27T13:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/union-to-hold-talks-with-fire-brigade-to-avert-london-strike-on-nov-5.html
Talks between the U.K.’s  Fire
Brigades Union  and  London Fire Brigade  seeking to prevent a
strike on Nov. 5, Britain’s Bonfire Night, have broken down.  “The talks have gone to ground this afternoon, and there
are no plans for any more talks at the moment,” Helen Hague, a
spokeswoman for the union, said by telephone today.  The union has called its members to strike from 10 a.m.,
Nov. 5, to 9 a.m., Nov. 7, for a total of 47 hours. The
firefighters already staged an eight-hour walk-out on Oct. 23
and plan to hold another eight-hour walkout on Nov. 1.  “The continuing determination by the FBU to take strike
action is unnecessary, unjustified and will be viewed
unsympathetically by Londoners,” Brian Coleman, London Fire and
Emergency Planning Authority chairman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Our message is simple -- call off the strikes now
and meet us on the 5 November at the Resolution Advisory Panel
which has the ability to resolve the dispute.”  The fire brigade wants to terminate firefighters’ existing
contracts and offer them new ones. The FBU has said this process
is aimed at cutting some of the 5,557 uniformed and 41 non-
operational firefighters.  Bonfire Night is an annual celebration in the U.K. held to
mark the failure of the Gunpowder Plot of Nov. 5, 1605, where
Guy Fawkes and other conspirators attempted to destroy the
Houses of Parliament in London. It is marked with the use of
fireworks and lighting of bonfires, making it one of the busiest
nights for firefighters, who receive and attend twice as many
calls as on an average day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Lawrence  in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
ckeatinge@bloomberg. 