-- Turkey May Delay Interest Rate Increase Until Late Next Year, Yilmaz Says
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-10-26T10:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/turkey-may-delay-interest-rate-increase-until-late-next-year-yilmaz-says.html
Turkey’s central bank said it’s
unlikely to raise interest rates before the fourth quarter of
next year, pushing back the date as gains in the lira widen the
trade deficit.  The bank’s main scenario is based on the assumption that
“policy rates are kept at present levels a while longer and
there are limited increases from the last quarter of 2011,”
Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  said today at a news conference in Ankara
to release the bank’s quarterly inflation report. Under those
conditions, inflation will probably slow to 5.4 percent at the
end of 2011, he said, raising the forecast from 5.3 percent.  The bank has kept the benchmark one-week repo rate
unchanged at 7 percent since December even as the  economy  grew
at a pace of almost 11 percent. Domestic demand has fueled the
rebound, drawing in imported energy and consumer goods. Slower
export growth has contributed to a widening trade gap, leading
industrialists to demand measures to curb the lira’s gains.  The lira has risen about 5 percent against the dollar this
year and more than 8 percent against the euro. The 12-month
 current-account  gap widened to $33.6 billion in August, more
than double the year-earlier figure.  That deficit, together with faltering growth in the
European economies that are the main markets for Turkish-made
cars and household appliances, should inspire “care” from
policy makers, said Yilmaz. The bank’s next monetary policy
meeting is on Nov. 11.  Bond Yields Plunge  Yields on  benchmark two-year bonds  fell to a record low
after Yilmaz spoke, dropping 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, to 7.57 percent at 1:10 p.m. in Istanbul. That compares
with yields of less than 1 percent in the U.S., the euro region
and Japan, according to Bloomberg data, attracting international
investment in Turkish assets that helps to push the lira up.  Short-term portfolio investments in Turkey jumped to $13.8
billion in the first eight months of the year, from $1.6 billion
in the same period of 2009, the central bank said on Oct. 11.  The bank “will be reluctant to hike the policy rate, which
would increase interest rate differentials, attract further
capital inflows, and contribute to the divergence between
domestic and external demand,”  Inan Demir , chief economist for
Finansbank AS in Istanbul, wrote in a note to investors after
today’s announcement.  Domestic demand is expanding a “little” faster than the
bank previously predicted, pushing its inflation forecasts
higher, Yilmaz said. The bank predicted end-2012 inflation of
5.1 percent, up from the 5 percent it foresaw in July. The
forecast of 7.5 percent for the end of this year was unchanged.
The inflation rate was 9.2 percent last month.  ‘Liquidity Reduction’  Yilmaz may “rely on liquidity reduction measures to slow
credit growth” instead of raising rates, Demir said.  The central bank last month increased the level of lira
reserves banks must deposit, partially reversing a reduction it
had made in December 2008 to provide emergency liquidity during
the global crisis. The withdrawal of liquidity is “almost”
complete, Yilmaz said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Berat Meric  in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net  