-- Music Licensing Group, Mobile Carriers Close to Royalty Deal, Lawyers Say
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2010-10-26T16:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/music-licensing-group-mobile-carriers-close-to-royalty-deal-lawyers-say.html
A licensing organization is near a
settlement with two of the largest mobile-phone companies on
payments for music over wireless devices, lawyers for both sides
said in court.  The  American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers ,
 Verizon Communications Inc.  and  Ericsson Inc.  are close to an
agreement, their lawyers said today at a hearing in New York.
Ascap hasn’t reached agreement with another carrier, AT&T Inc.,
its lawyer said.  “We’re almost at the finish line, particularly with
 Verizon  and Ericsson,” said  David Leichtman , who represents New
York-based Ascap. “We’re at an impasse with AT&T. We may need
some assistance from the court.”  Licensing groups are fighting for as much money as they can
for songwriters and publishers as sales of physical products
such as compact discs are declining. Digital transmission of
music, through mobile ringtones and streaming services, is seen
as an area of revenue growth for the music business.  Ascap is required by a consent decree to settle disputes
over royalties with providers of music in U.S. District Court in
New York.  “We’ve made progress,”  Joseph Petersen , a lawyer for
Dallas-based AT&T, told Judge  Denise Cote . Three issues remain
for AT&T, he said.  One is how to account for revenue from future video
services AT&T plans to offer on wireless phones, Petersen said.  More Negotiations  Cote told the lawyers to continue negotiations for two
weeks, then meet with a magistrate judge if necessary to settle
remaining issues. If disputes remain, both sides are to submit
briefs by Dec. 17, and a hearing will be held in January, she
said.  The setting of licensing rates in  federal court  is the
result of an antitrust suit the U.S. government brought against
Ascap in 1941.  The case is In Re: In the Matter of the Application of
Cellco Partnership d/b/a Verizon Wireless for the Determination
of Reasonable License Fees, 1:09-cv-07074, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  