-- Valero Energy Reports Profit, Seeks European Refineries as Margins Widen
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-10-26T20:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/valero-reports-third-quarter-profit-as-diesel-margins-widen.html
Valero Energy Corp. , the largest
U.S. oil refiner, reported its second consecutive quarterly
profit and said it was looking to buy European plants after
rising prices for fuels outstripped the cost of crude.  Net income for the quarter was $292 million, or 51 cents a
share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $629 million, or 61
cents, San Antonio-based Valero said in a statement. Per-share
profit, excluding an insurance settlement, matched the 46-cent
average of 16 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Valero said the average margin, or crack spread, between
the cost of oil and the price of refined fuels widened 55
percent to $7.87 a barrel from the same period a year ago. Sales
rose 20 percent to $22.2 billion as output rose 6.8 percent.  “It’s increased throughput and improved refining margins
based on an uptick in demand,” said  Gianna Bern , president of
Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in Chicago, who rates the
stock “market weight” and owns none. “This is a heck of an
improvement over the refining environment in 2009.”  Valero  rose  23 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $18 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have nine
buy ratings, 12 holds and two sells recommendations from
 analysts  and have risen 7.5 percent this year.  ‘Actively Looking’  The company has $2.4 billion in cash on hand to buy
refineries and it is “actively looking” at European units,
especially in the U.K., Chief Executive Officer  Bill Klesse  said
on an investor conference call today. Valero may also use $700
million from recent asset sales to buy in Europe.  Total SA, Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Chevron Corp. and Murphy
Oil Co. are among the companies that have refineries for sale
in the U.K., according to company statements compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It’s a buyers’ market,” said John R. Auers, a senior
vice president at Turner, Mason & Co in Dallas, a refiner
consulting company. “These are all decent refineries.”  Valero agreed to sell two U.S. refineries this year to PBF
Energy Co. LLC, the partnership led by Petroplus Holdings AG
Chairman  Thomas O’Malley  and backed by private-equity firms
Blackstone Group LP and First Reserve Corp.  The company also agreed to sell its 50 percent stake in a
crude-oil pipeline system yesterday to Genesis Energy LP for
$330 million.  A decline in fuel inventories in the U.S. and Europe should
support margins through the end of the year, Klesse said in the
statement.  Quick Rebound  Higher prices for diesel and bigger discounts on the type
of crude that the company is capable of refining helped to widen
the margin, Valero said.  “Valero’s ability to refine high-sulfur grades, which
historically have sold at a significant discount to light, sweet
crude, is typically an enormous advantage,”  Philip Adams , a
Chicago-based analyst for Gimme Credit LLC, wrote today in a
note to clients. “Whenever the global economy recovers, Valero
should rebound quickly.”  Valero should be ready to restart a refinery in Aruba in
mid-December and the company has “very little maintenance-
related downtime planned at our refineries during the fourth
quarter,” Klesse said in the statement.  The company is on schedule to reduce costs by $185 million
this year and will cut another $100 million in 2011, he said.  Cost ‘Wild Card’  Consumption of low-sulfur  diesel  during the quarter rose
8.8 percent from a year earlier to the highest level in two
years, according to the American Petroleum Institute.  Valero’s  15 refineries  can process more than 2.8 million
barrels a day and it owns 10 ethanol plants that can produce
72,000 barrels a day of the corn-based fuel additive. It’s the
largest of the U.S. independent refiners, which are companies
without oil or natural-gas production, and the first to report
third-quarter results.  “The refining environment certainly has improved,” Bern
said. “The wild card for the other refiners becomes cost
management in this environment of relatively weak demand. We’re
nowhere near where we were in 2008.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 