-- Valmont in Talks on Irrigation Sales to Sudan After U.S. Eases Sanctions
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-10-26T12:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/valmont-in-talks-on-irrigation-sales-to-sudan-after-u-s-eases-sanctions.html
Valmont Industries Inc ., an Omaha,
Nebraska-based maker of irrigation products, is in talks to sell
equipment to Sudan after the U.S. eased sanctions on the
northeast African country.  Valmont is holding talks with Sudan’s Kenana Sugar Co.,
said Richard D. Berkland, Valmont’s vice president for
international irrigation sales and marketing, in an interview
yesterday in the Sudanese capital, Khartoum. That makes it the
first American company to visit Sudan after the U.S. allowed the
export of farming equipment on Oct. 20, he said.  “We are here to structure a long-term agreement with
Kenana, which would not only include equipment, but also support
services,” Berkland said. He said Valmont aims to sell “a
considerable amount” of irrigation machinery to help Kenana
expand into other crops besides sugar cane, without giving
further details on the sale.  The exemption for farming equipment from U.S. sanctions on
Sudan came as the country’s semi-autonomous southern region 
prepares for a January referendum on whether to secede from the
north. The vote is a key component of the 2005  peace agreement 
that ended two decades of civil war between the Muslim north and
the south, where Christianity and traditional beliefs dominate.
About 2 million people died in the conflict and more than 4
million were displaced.  The U.S. classifies Sudan as a sponsor of terrorism and has
applied economic sanctions since 1997. The easing of
restrictions is part of U.S. efforts to shore up the peace
agreement. It has also promised to invest in non-oil industries
and resume diplomatic relations if the transition is smooth.  Valmont  is now also looking into long-term projects with
other Sudanese companies, Berkland said. “We’ve always said
that there’s a big potential here,” he said.  Sanctions Lobbying  Berkland said that Valmont has been lobbying since February
to get the sanctions relaxed, arguing that irrigation equipment
should be considered in the same category as food aid. Its
efforts were backed by the office of  Scott Gration , the U.S.
special envoy to Sudan, he said.  The company was given a “test-case” license last month by
the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control to sell Kenana
equipment that will help grow groundnuts, soya and grains,
Berkland said. The relaxation of sanctions last week has
encouraged Valmont to pursue wider projects, he said.  The government is seeking foreign investment in agriculture
to alleviate food shortages and reduce the economy’s dependence
on oil, which mostly comes from the south.  “Abundance in land and water, including underground water,
is the real strength in Sudan,” Finance Minister Ali Mahmoud
Abdel Rasoul told reporters today in Khartoum.  ‘Big, Fertile’  Sudan pumps 490,000 barrels of crude a day, making it the
third-largest producer in sub-Saharan Africa, according to the
 BP Statistical Review of World Energy .  The country, Africa’s largest by landmass, has “big,
fertile areas of land with water available” that are similar to
the terrain in parts of the U.S. and are suitable for large
agricultural projects, Berkland said. “There’s no reason Sudan
should not be a net exporter of food.”  Kenana is 34 percent-owned by the Sudanese government, with
the Kuwait Investment Authority holding 30 percent and the Saudi
Arabian government 12 percent. It produces about 450,000 tons of
sugar a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 