-- Venezuelan Securities Official Charged in Miami With Attempted Extortion
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-10-26T21:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/venezuelan-securities-official-charged-in-u-s-court-for-extortion-attempt.html
An official of Venezuela’s
securities regulator was charged by federal prosecutors in Miami
with seeking to extort $1.5 million from the owner of a Caracas
brokerage firm placed under government control.  Rafael Ramos de la Rosa, the government-appointed receiver
of  Uno Valores Casa de Bolsa C.A. , was arrested at Miami’s
Viceroy Hotel on Oct. 23 by the Federal Bureau of Investigation
after what agents described in court papers as a lengthy
investigation.  In meetings in Florida and New York, and in e-mail
communications, Ramos told brokerage owner Tomas Andres Vasquez
Estrella that he would write a report clearing Vasquez of
wrongdoing if he provided the money, FBI agent Daniel J. Johns
wrote in an affidavit.  Ramos claimed in his communications with Vasquez that he
was acting on behalf of the chief of Venezuela’s securities
regulator,  Tomas Sanchez , according to the criminal complaint
filed in U.S. District Court in Miami.  Sanchez said in a telephone interview that Ramos had no
authority to negotiate with the head of any brokerage firm. The
government decided two weeks ago to liquidate Uno Valores for
selling securities without authorization, he told state-run news
service  Agencia Venezolana de Noticias .  FBI agents detained Ramos at the Miami hotel after he
accepted a check for $750,000 delivered by Rolando Araujo,
Vasquez’s uncle and a director of Uno Valores. Araujo recorded
the meeting in cooperation with federal investigators.  Ramos said yesterday during an initial appearance before
U.S. Magistrate Judge  Andrea Simonton  that he planned to hire an
attorney. He’s due in court again tomorrow for a detention
hearing.  Attempts by Bloomberg News to determine whether Ramos had
retained an attorney yet were unsuccessful. Assistant U.S.
Attorney Richard Gregorie, the prosecutor on the case, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jose Orozco  in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez-Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  