-- Vestas Third-Quarter Profit Falls as Credit Crunch Cuts Orders
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-26T15:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/vestas-wind-s-126-million-euro-profit-in-third-quarter-exceeds-estimates.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S , the world’s
largest maker of wind turbines, fell the most in nine weeks in
Copenhagen trading after saying orders will decline next year
and that it will cut 3,000 jobs because of reduced demand.  The Danish manufacturer forecast 7,000 megawatts to 8,000
megawatts of orders, compared with its estimate of 8,000
megawatts to 9,000 megawatts for 2010. The Randers-based company
postponed giving revenue and profitability forecasts for 2011
until February citing “high market uncertainty.”  The credit crisis has prompted banks to restrict loans to
wind-park developers that buy turbines from Vestas and rivals
such as Germany’s  Siemens AG  and General Electric Co. At the
same time, Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has limited prospects
for economic growth in the region. The 3,000 job cuts will come
mainly in Denmark, where costs are highest. Some factories will
be shut because of lower European demand, Vestas said.  “The limited information that the company provides for its
2011 guidance doesn’t bode well,”  Christian Nagstrup , an
analyst with Silkeborg, Denmark-based  Jyske Bank A/S , said today
in a note to investors. He has a “buy” rating on the shares.  Net income in the third quarter fell to 126 million euros
($176 million) from 165 million euros a year earlier. Sales
declined 5.1 percent to 1.72 billion euros.  The stock fell 10 percent, the most since Aug. 18, closing
20.7 kroner lower at 179.3 kroner, the lowest price since
November 2006. The shares have lost 43 percent this year
compared with a 5.7 percent gain in the  Bloomberg European 500
Index .  ‘Too Optimistic’  “I and the other members of management held on to an
optimistic view for too long,” Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said today at a press conference in Copenhagen. “I can
understand if some people believe that I was wrong.”  The 126 million-euro profit beat the average estimate of 80
million euros in a Bloomberg  survey  of 13 analysts. The shares
earlier rose as much as 8.8 percent, the most since April 26.  Vestas, which employed 23,443 people at the end of
September, said it expects to complete most  job reduction 
negotiations by Nov. 21. It plans to close a blade production
factory in Nakskov, Denmark, and plants that make nacelles in
the Danish cities of Skagen and Viborg and in Sweden’s
Lidkoeping, as well as a turbine tower factory in Rudkoebing,
Denmark. The company will also reduce production and
administrative staff outside its homeland, it said.  China Vs Denmark  Engel said it costs as much for Vestas to produce a turbine
in China and ship it to Sweden than it does to make the machine
in Denmark and transport it to the neighboring Scandinavian
country. It’s not profitable to transport turbines to the U.S.
market from Asia, so Vestas has no plans to scale down its
Colorado facility, he said at a conference call.  The CEO also said order intake and cash flow will be
sufficient for the company to avoid having to raise capital
through a share sale this year or the next. Vestas raised more
than $1 billion in an April 2009 stock sale and sold bonds for
the first time in March this year.  GE, Vestas’ biggest rival in the U.S. market, said on Oct.
15 that wind-turbine revenue dropped 32 percent and orders fell
by 60 units in the third quarter. Hansen Transmissions
International NV, the maker of wind-turbine gearboxes, said on
Oct. 20 that revenue for the 12 months through March will fall
about 10 percent compared with its 2010 fiscal year.  Vestas kept unchanged its 2010 revenue forecast of 6
billion euros and a margin for Ebit in a range of 5 percent to 6
percent, excluding costs relating to the job cuts. The company
reported losses in the first two quarters of 2010, the first in
four years.  Skykon, an Aarhus, Denmark-based supplier of wind-turbine
parts whose customers include Vestas, today  said  it will suspend
payments to creditors after it has been harmed “by a number of
negative factors in the wake of the financial crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  