-- Voters `Ripe for Change' Signal Republicans to Add 6 Governors
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/voters-ripe-for-change-signaling-republicans-may-gain-six-governor-seats.html
Republicans are poised to win the
most governorships since 1994 as candidates including
Pennsylvania’s  Tom Corbett , Michigan’s  Rick Snyder  and Ohio’s
 John Kasich  seize on the faltering economy and persistent
unemployment in bids to take over Democrat-led states.  The party may gain six or more seats in the 37 elections on
Nov. 2,  polls show , including in states held by Democrats such
as Illinois, Oklahoma, New Mexico and Wisconsin. That would be
the most Republican wins in 16 years, giving the party 30 of the
50  statehouses , according to the National Governors Association,
and toppling the Democrats’ 26-24  majority .  The gains would strengthen Republicans before the 2012
presidential election, give them greater sway over the once-a-
decade redrawing of congressional districts and shape states’
efforts to escape the recession’s lingering  financial strains .  “The conditions are ripe for a change in parties because
of the distress in the unemployment rate and the economic
recovery being slow,” said  Richard Ciccarone , a managing
director of McDonnell Investment Management in Oak Brook,
Illinois, which holds more than $7 billion of municipal bonds.  Republicans are emphasizing economic growth that slowed to
a 1.7 percent annual rate in the second quarter from 5 percent
at the end of 2009 and the cost of President Barack Obama’s
programs, such as the health-care overhaul and $787 billion
economic stimulus. With  unemployment  stuck near 10 percent for a
year, Obama’s quarterly job-approval rating is the  lowest of his
presidency , Gallup Inc. said Oct. 21.  “The political climate is dominated by the economy,” said
 Nathan Gonzales , who tracks state races for the Rothenberg
Political Report and estimates that Republicans may pick up as
many as seven governorships. “That’s where Democrats are
getting hurt.”  Shrunken Budgets  The economy’s malaise has shriveled state budgets, with tax
revenue less than before the financial crisis worsened in 2008.
States have projected $112 billion of deficits for the 2012
fiscal year, according to the  Center on Budget Policy and
Priorities , a researcher in Washington.  Funds from Obama’s  economic stimulus plan  of 2009, which
helped states balance budgets, are set to end by mid-2011. To
compensate, officials may have to raise taxes,  fire workers  and
slice deeper into spending on schools, the poor and public-works
projects. Republican victories could presage more severe cuts.  “You’ll see an inclination to reduce spending as opposed
to increase taxes,” said former Utah Governor  Michael Leavitt ,
a Republican who led that state from 1993 to 2003. “There will
be a certain amount of pain from that, but their constituents
may be more inclined to support that approach.”  Taxes Versus Cuts  In Illinois, where a projected $13 billion deficit amounts
to more than half the state’s budget, Republican  Bill Brady  led
Democrat  Pat Quinn , who became governor last year when  Rod Blagojevich  was indicted for corruption, by 44 percent to 40
percent in a  Mason-Dixon poll  released Oct. 24. Brady has
pledged not to raise taxes, as Quinn previously proposed, and
wants instead to cut spending by 10 percent across all programs,
including schools.  Republicans are ahead elsewhere in the Midwest. In
Michigan, Snyder, former president of computer company Gateway
Inc., outpolled Lansing Mayor  Virg Bernero  by 54 percent to 34
percent in an Oct. 19 Rasmussen survey. He would replace
 Jennifer Granholm , a Democrat who took office in 2003.  In  Ohio , Kasich, a former congressman and Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. banker, led 51 percent to 41 percent over
Democratic incumbent  Ted Strickland  in an Oct. 19 Quinnipiac
University  poll.   Hard Time  “There have been a lot of economic problems in the state
of Ohio for a long time, but the recession was particularly
severe,” said  John Green , the director of the Bliss Institute
of Applied Politics at the University of Akron. “That’s really
what’s giving Governor Strickland a hard time.”  In Pennsylvania, Republican Attorney General Corbett led
Democrat  Dan Onorato , chief executive of Allegheny County, by 49
percent to 44 percent,  according to  an Oct. 22 Quinnipiac
survey. They’re vying to replace Democrat  Ed Rendell .  Democrats are faring better in three of the four most-
populous states. New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  has
widened his advantage over Republican  Carl Paladino  to 60
percent of the vote versus 37 percent, according to an Oct. 22
Marist College poll, suggesting his party will retain the third-
biggest state.  Back in Power  In California, the most-populous state, former Governor
 Jerry Brown , a Democrat, leads ex-EBay Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  by 13 percentage points in a poll released
Oct. 24 by the University of Southern California and the Los
Angeles Times. That potentially puts Democrats back in power
after two terms under Republican  Arnold Schwarzenegger .  In Florida, where former Republican Governor  Charlie Crist 
switched to an independent to run for Senate, a Quinnipiac
survey this month put Democrat  Alex Sink , the state’s finance
chief, in a statistical tie with Republican  Rick Scott . She had
trailed the former health-care executive since the August
primary in the fourth-largest state.  “They’re hoping to win in two of the big states like
California and Florida to give them something to hang on the
wall after the election,” Gonzales, the forecaster with the
Rothenberg report, said of the Democrats.  The party will be hurt by the loss of incumbents barred
from re-election, he said. Among them are governors of
Tennessee, Wyoming and Oklahoma, where Gonzales and other
forecasters predict Republican victories. Only 14 incumbents are
running in the 37 elections, according to the  National Governors
Association.   Flood of Cash  Republicans have also benefitted from a flood of cash. The
party’s governors association raised $31 million from July
through September, outpacing the Democratic group 3-to-1,
Internal Revenue Service filings show. They’ve funneled some of
the money into states that helped tip the 2008 election in
Obama’s favor, such as Florida and Michigan.  “When Obama is mapping his re-election in 2012, that’s
going to be a major difference he’s going to have to contend
with,” said Mike Schrimpf, a spokesman for the Republican
Governors Association.  Republicans’ personal wealth has also played a role. In
California, Whitman has spent $141.5 million of her own money,
the most personal funds ever used by a U.S. politician running
for office. Florida’s Scott, former chairman and chief executive
officer of Columbia HCA Healthcare Corp., and his wife have
contributed $56.5 million to his campaign.  There’s no guarantee a shift to Republican control will
remedy states’ budget problems, said Ciccarone, the investor
with McDonnell.  Price of Risk  When Schwarzenegger rose to power in 2003 in the midst of a
California fiscal crisis, he was cheered by investors, who
pushed down the extra yield they demand for the risk of the
state’s bonds. As the governor clashed with the Democratic-
controlled legislature, the difference between California 10-
year yields and those of top-rated borrowers soared more  than 10
times  from July 2006 through July 2009, to as much as 1.7
percentage points.  A “honeymoon-type of rally” ends if a state legislature
opposes the programs of a new governor, said Ciccarone, who
wouldn’t reveal his preference in the Illinois election.  “Then their ability to change may be modest,” he said.
“You may not get the kind of dramatic change you need in the
most hard-pressed states.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 