-- Wall Street Struggling to Define Prop Trading, Sifma's Ryan Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-10-26T18:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/wall-street-struggling-to-define-prop-trading-sifma-s-ryan-says.html
Banks aiming to comply with a new
ban on proprietary trading are struggling to determine which of
their products will remain legal and which must be eliminated,
the head of Wall Street’s biggest lobby group said today.  ‘It’s very difficult, product by product, to figure out
what’s the acceptable line,’’  Tim Ryan , chief executive officer
of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
said in a Washington speech. “The downside here is if they draw
them inappropriately, they crash the capital markets and they
crash the economy, which is on very tender footing.”  Wall Street firms will be prohibited from using their own
money to wager on securities and markets under the so-called
Volcker rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who proposed including it in the Dodd-Frank regulatory
overhaul. President  Barack Obama  sought the rewrite of
financial-industry rules, which he signed in July, after a 2008
credit crisis sparked by banks’ losing bets on securities tied
to subprime mortgages.  Sifma, which counts  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  among its 680  members , has shifted its efforts to
shape the regulatory landscape from Congress to federal agencies
responsible for implementing the largest overhaul of financial-
industry rules since the Great Depression.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of
regulators including the heads of the Fed and the Treasury
Department, met for the first time on Oct. 1 to begin
implementation of the proprietary trading rules. The law allows
firms as long as to four years to bring their trading desks into
compliance, with the option of extensions, according to an
analysis from  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP .  “My biggest fear is that the regulatory apparatus
overshoots the mark and we end up with consequences that nobody
anticipated,” said Ryan, a former vice chairman of investment
banking for financial institutions and governments at JPMorgan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  