-- Want Want-Led Group to Buy Taiwan Cable TV Operator China Network Systems
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-10-26T07:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/want-want-led-group-to-buy-taiwan-cable-tv-operator-china-network-systems.html
Want Want Group , the conglomerate
with businesses from broadcasting to food, said it’s leading an
investment group that agreed to buy Taiwanese cable-television
operator China Network Systems Co. from  MBK Partners Ltd.   Chao Yu Pei, special assistant to Want Want’s president,
said the group signed the agreement yesterday, declining to
provide financial details. The investors agreed to buy closely
held  China Network ’s stock for about $1.4 billion and assume $1
billion of debt, said a person familiar with the matter, asking
not to be identified because the accord is confidential.  The purchase would allow Want Want Chairman  Tsai Eng Meng ,
whose food business includes rice cakes and flavored milk, to
expand his media assets in a market where almost 80 percent of
homes tune in to cable TV. For MBK, the sale would help the
private equity fund, founded by former Carlyle Group executives,
collect more than double the $600 million it spent buying China
Network’s stock more than three years ago.  “If Want Want has media outlets covering the entire
Greater China, companies who want to buy advertisements can do
it cost-effectively,” said  Monika Yang , who helps oversee
almost $2 billion at Hamon Asset Management Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“They are already very successful in the consumer front.”  Want Want outbid Permira Advisers LLP, which teamed up with
Taiwan’s Ruentex Group,  Macquarie Group Ltd.  and Bain Capital
LLC, the person said. Choosing a Taiwanese buyer will help
obtain regulatory approval, according to the person.  Want Want China Holdings Ltd., the Hong Kong-listed unit,
advanced 0.4 percent to HK$7.12 as of 2:59 p.m. local time.  Kbro Sale  The sale comes as Taiwan’s  Daniel  and  Richard Tsai , who are
unrelated to the Want Want chairman, seek to clear regulatory
approval to buy  Kbro Co. , the island’s top cable TV operator,
from Carlyle Group.  Taiwan’s communications regulator said Oct. 6 it will seek
opinions from the public, academics and experts before deciding
whether to approve the Tsai family’s purchase of Kbro Co.  Michael Kim , an MBK founding partner, wasn’t immediately
reachable on his mobile phone. MBK, which bought China Network
with Taiwan’s Koo’s family, effectively controls the cable-TV
operator through a preference-share arrangement with the local
partner, people familiar with the plan said in August.  Want Want’s Tsai bought a stake in Hong Kong’s Asia
Television last year and acquired Taiwan’s China Times Group,
owner of at least two newspapers and three TV channels on the
island, in 2008.  China Network had 1.05 million subscribers at the end of
2009, giving it a 21 percent market share of Taiwan’s cable-TV
market, while Kbro Co. had a 22 percent share with 1.11 million
customers, according to a July report from Taiwan’s National
Communications Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
 Weiyi Lim  in Taipei at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Young-Sam Cho  at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 