-- Wheat Advances Most in Two Weeks on Weather Concerns in U.S. Great Plains
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-26T19:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/wheat-advances-most-in-two-weeks-on-weather-concerns-in-u-s-great-plains.html
Wheat futures rose the most in two
weeks on renewed concern that dry weather in the U.S. Great
Plains will hurt the early development of winter crops.  Growing areas in the central and southern Plains for the
hard red-winter variety will get “minimal to non-existent”
rainfall in the next 14 days, Chicago-based QT Weather said
today in a report. About 47 percent of the U.S.  wheat crop  was
rated good to excellent in the week ended Oct. 24, down from 62
percent a year earlier, the Department of Agriculture said
yesterday.  “If you just look at the  drought monitor  map, it shows how
abnormally dry they are in southwest Oklahoma, western Kansas
and eastern Colorado,” said  Tom Leffler , the owner of Leffler
Commodities LLC in Augusta, Kansas. “I’ve driven through part
of that country, and it’s dry.”  Wheat futures for December delivery climbed 18 cents, or
2.7 percent, to settle at $6.92 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest gain for a most-active
contract since Oct. 8. The grain has jumped 44 percent since the
end of June after drought in Russia and Eastern Europe slashed
crops.  Crop conditions last week were rated at the lowest level
for the date since 2001, and “drought is the culprit affecting
the key bread-wheat states in the Great Plains and mid-South,”
 Gail Martell , the president of MartellCropProjections.com in
Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin, said in a report.  Midwest Rain  Rain today in growing areas for the soft red-winter variety
in the Midwest may improve prospects for the crop, said  Jerod Leman , a broker at Wellington Commodities in Carmel, Indiana.
Parts of Illinois, Indiana and Ohio may get as much as 1.5
inches (3.8 centimeters) today, according to QT Weather.  “Soft-red areas needed rain badly, because some of the
wheat looked really poor,” Leman said. “Hopefully this will
help, and it will stay warm for a week or two so we can get this
stuff up and going.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  