-- Paul the Octopus, World Cup Oracle, Dies in German Aquarium
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-10-26T11:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/world-cup-oracle-paul-the-octopus-passes-away-in-aquatic-oberhausen-home.html
Paul the Octopus, who accurately
predicted the result of every German soccer match as well as the
final in this year’s World Cup in South Africa, has died.  The mollusk-turned-sage passed away naturally in his
aquarium in the western German city of Oberhausen overnight,
 Sealife  said today in a  statement  on its website. Aquarium
workers were “devastated” when they found him this morning.  Paul, who was 2 1/2 years old, became a media sensation in
Germany and around the world this summer with his talent for 
World Cup predictions. He tipped winners by choosing between 
two mussel-filled containers adorned with the flags of each team.  German fans were not amused when he chose Spain over
Germany in the semi-finals in July, leading to threats that
featured octopus menu ideas. Still, the oracle continued to
receive wide attention after the World Cup.  “Paul inspired people of all continents,” the aquarium’s
general manager, Stefan Porwoll, said in the statement. “He won
all our hearts, and we will sorely miss him.”  Paul’s tank was adorned with the flags of World Cup
countries and a replica trophy recalls his successes. Spanish
visitors grateful for his foresight flocked to the aquarium. A
book deal, a movie contract and endorsements followed.  The octopus even stoked international tension when Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  accused the West of attempting to
“manipulate people’s minds through superstition, an octopus,
fortune-telling and such things.”  Paul’s remains will be cremated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  