-- Worst of European Debt Crisis Over, Financial Stability Facility CEO Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-10-26T11:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/worst-of-european-debt-crisis-over-financial-stability-facility-ceo-says.html
The head of the euro area’s
financial backstop declared the worst of Europe’s debt crisis
over, saying budget-austerity policies are “in place” across
the region.  “Europe has taken decisive action to tackle sovereign-debt
issues,”  Klaus Regling , chief executive officer of the European
Financial Stability Facility, told a conference today in
Brussels. “The worst of the crisis in Europe is behind us.”  The EFSF would sell bonds backed by 440 billion euros ($613
billion) in national guarantees and use the money it raises to
make loans to euro-area countries in need. The entity would sell
debt only after an aid request is made by a country.  The EFSF, created for three years, is the main part of a
750 billion-euro aid package that European Union finance
ministers hammered out in May to combat the sovereign debt
crisis. Another 60 billion euros came from the European
Commission -- the EU’s executive arm -- and 250 billion euros
from the International Monetary Fund.  “European governments have done a great deal in recent
months to put structures and policies in place to address the
problems,” said Regling, a German national who once ran the
commission’s economic and financial affairs department.
“Fiscal-consolidation strategies are in place now in all the
member states.”  ‘Significant Divergences’  While citing “significant divergences” between European
countries, he also said the EU is on course to tighten the
enforcement of fiscal rules. He called the planned crackdown on
high-deficit states “encouraging.”  Echoing his stance over recent weeks, Regling said the
“central expectation” is that no country will seek EFSF
assistance. EFSF aid would bring with it the kinds of budget-
austerity conditions on recipients that Greece faces under its
separate 110 billion-euro bailout from the EU and IMF.  Regling said the interest rate on any EFSF loans to
countries would be “comparable” to the 5 percent rate that
Greece pays for its emergency funding from fellow euro-area
nations.  “There is a general understanding that borrowing costs
would be comparable to the Greek case,” he said. “This is
around the 5 percent.”  When putting together the backstop six months ago, euro-
area governments ruled out any EFSF debt sales before an aid
request because “ministers did not want to give a wrong
signal,” Regling said.  ‘Political Decision’  “There was a clear political decision on this point,” he
said. “We will not pre-fund.”  Governments also ruled out that any EFSF loans would have
the same preferred status as IMF aid so as not to “overburden”
the borrowing country, said Regling. Seniority would give the
Luxembourg-based EFSF priority in any payout after a default.  “It was a deliberate decision not to suggest that for the
EFSF,” he said. “If there are too many senior claims on a
country, then the private sector may be reluctant to go back to
that country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  