-- Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Hedges for 3% Annual Yuan Appreciation
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-10-27T10:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/yangzijiang-shipbuilding-holdings-hedges-for-3-annual-yuan-appreciation.html
Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings
Ltd. , China’s third-largest shipyard outside state control, is
basing currency-hedging on the yuan gaining 3 percent a year in
expectation the government will prevent rises above that pace.  “Appreciation is inevitable because of China’s trade
imbalance, but the rate won’t be as rapid as the Americans and
other countries are expecting,” Chairman  Ren Yuanlin  said
yesterday in an interview in Singapore. “Three percent a year
is a scenario we can live with.”  The shipyard, which books all of its orders in dollars, is
reflecting confidence that China will resist U.S.-led pressure
to quicken yuan gains. The Chinese currency has appreciated 2.4
percent since China ended a two-year peg in June. Yuan forwards
indicate a 2.9 percent strengthening over the next year.  “China will appreciate the yuan but it will be a slow
pace,” said  Francis Lun , general manager at Fulbright
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “For shipyards, the effect will
be less, but still it will hurt profits.”  Yangzijiang, whose main yards are in Jiangsu province,
eastern China, eventually plans to hedge 30 percent of its
foreign exchange, Ren said.  Yuan Gains  China will allow the yuan to gain because officials
understand it’s in the interest both of domestic growth and
global economic stability, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in an Oct. 23 interview. Chinese officials have
countered by promising a gradual increase, saying that a sudden
rise would cause social and economic disruption.  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards weakened 0.5
percent to 6.4775 per dollar yesterday, reflecting bets the
currency will strengthen from the spot rate of 6.6627, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yangzijiang is also planning to buy more yards in China as
lower vessel prices and overcapacity squeeze margins, Ren said,
without naming any potential targets.  “Many of the weaker shipyards remain in denial even though
they’re facing cash-flow problems and possible closures,” Ren
said. “It’s like a dying person -- the yards are fighting to
survive until their last breath.”  Yangzijiang  fell 3.6 percent to S$1.89 at the close of
trading in Singapore today. It’s gained 56 percent this year.
Its Taiwan-listed TDRs dropped 1.9 percent to NT$22.80 compared
with an NT$18.80 sale price.  Capacity Boost  Yangzijiang expects to boost capacity 20 percent next year,
helped by acquisitions, Ren said. More than half the company’s
capacity is for building container ships, with the rest being
for multipurpose and bulk vessels, he said.  The company’s cash reserves rose 23 percent in the nine
months ended September to 4.7 billion yuan ($704 million). The
shipyard raised NT$3.76 billion ($122 million) in its Taiwan
depositary receipts sale.  The shipbuilder has announced three  acquisitions  this year,
taking advantage of government attempts to encourage
consolidation in shipbuilding following a 55 percent slump in
orders nationwide last year. The company has also expanded into
ship-breaking and ship-repair to boost sales.  Yangzijiang’s third-quarter  net income  rose 32 percent to
730.4 million yuan, the company said in a Singapore Exchange
statement yesterday. Ship deliveries doubled to 14 as shipping
lines resumed taking new vessels after a slowdown last year
during the global recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net ;
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  