-- Zynga's Value Tops Electronic Arts as Virtual-Goods Sales Surge
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-10-26T20:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-26/zynga-s-value-at-5-5-billion-tops-electronic-arts-on-virtual-goods-surge.html
Zynga Game Network Inc.’s estimated
worth surpassed Electronic Arts Inc.’s stock-market value, a
sign of the ascendance of social-networking entertainment at the
expense of traditional video games.  Zynga, the maker of such games as “FarmVille” and
“FrontierVille,” is valued at $5.51 billion, according to
 SharesPost Inc. , an exchange for shares of privately held
companies.  Electronic Arts , the second-largest game publisher by
sales, is worth $5.22 billion on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Started by  Mark Pincus  almost four years ago, Zynga has
become one of the fastest-growing technology companies by using
Facebook Inc.’s social network to distribute games. It makes
money by selling virtual goods, such as vehicles and weapons
that help players advance in games. The company has grabbed
about a third of that market, which is worth $1.6 billion this
year, according to Inside Network in Palo Alto, California.  “The valuation is not that crazy, given what’s going on in
the market,” said  Atul Bagga , an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in
San Francisco, who estimates the virtual goods market may reach
$3.6 billion in three years. “It’s not that terribly expensive
seeing the growth prospects.”  Retail Slump  Electronic Arts, meanwhile, faces declining retail sales of
gaming hardware and software. More consumers would rather play
online and social-networking games, rather than heading to a
store to buy a shrink-wrapped program. That’s forced  Electronic
Arts  to cut jobs and seek acquisitions for growth. Its shares
have  dropped  6.3 percent since March 1. Zynga’s estimated value
has more than doubled in that period.  Electronic Arts was the world’s biggest video-game
publisher until 2008, when Activision merged with Vivendi SA’s
gaming business to form  Activision Blizzard Inc.  Founded in
1982, Electronic Arts helped pioneer personal-computer games and
also ruled the market for console software, with titles like
“The Sims,” “Need for Speed” and the “Madden NFL” series.  Dani Dudeck , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
said the company doesn’t comment on its valuation. SharesPost
bases its number on data from trades of private shares, research
estimates and venture-financing valuations.  Jeff Brown , a
spokesman for Redwood City, California-based Electronic Arts,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Facebook Players  Zynga is the largest maker of games on Facebook, with more
than 210 million monthly active users, according to  AppData.com ,
part of Inside Network, a research firm. Zynga, which has raised
more than $350 million in private capital, has made six
acquisitions since May and expanded its workforce by a third in
the past quarter to 1,200 employees.  Six of the 10 most popular apps on Facebook belong to
Zynga, led by “FarmVille” with 57.6 million users, AppData said.
To reduce its dependence on Facebook, which is taking a bigger
cut of virtual-goods sales, Zynga has developed its own websites
for games and put its apps on sites run by Microsoft Corp. and
Yahoo! Inc. This year, Zynga introduced a poker game in Hong
Kong and Taiwan, and it bought companies in China and Japan.  Zynga’s value on SharesPost was $2.61 billion in March.
That’s when SharesPost introduced a new index for venture-backed
companies, including Facebook, Twitter Inc. and LinkedIn Corp.  Activision, Tencent  Both Zynga and Electronic Arts rank behind Santa Monica,
California-based  Activision , which has a market value of $13.9
billion. China’s  Tencent Holdings Ltd. , which offers online
games in addition to instant messaging and other Internet
services, is even bigger. It has a valuation of $43 billion.  At Electronic Arts, Chief Executive Officer  John Riccitiello  has cut more than 2,500 jobs since 2008 to reduce
costs and stem three years of losses. Retail sales of game
hardware and software fell 9 percent in the first half of 2010,
according to NPD Group Inc.  The company entered the social-games market last year with
the purchase of  Playfish Inc.  Electronic Arts also bought the
U.K.-based publisher of “Angry Birds” last week to add titles
made for Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad.  Electronic Arts rose 19 cents to $15.81 at 4 p.m. New York
time on the Nasdaq. The shares have  declined  19 percent in the
past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  