-- New York Times to consolidate paper's sections
-- By  Robert MacMillan
-- Fri Sep 5, 2008 9:24pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/09/06/industry-newyorktimes-dc-idUSN0550903120080906

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The New York Times Co plans to 
consolidate some sections in the metropolitan edition of its 
namesake newspaper to reduce costs, the publisher said on 
Friday. 

  Starting Monday, October 6, the paper will blend its Metro 
section with its main news section on Monday through Saturday 
and combine its business and sports pages into one section on 
Tuesday through Friday.  The "A" section includes the Times' international and 
national news reports as well as the editorial and opinion 
pages.  "Given the business challenges we face, we are constantly 
looking for ways to reduce costs that do not affect the quality 
or quantity of the journalism we provide to our readers," Times 
Co Chairman and New York Times Publisher Arthur Sulzberger Jr 
wrote in a memo to staff released on Friday.  "We are not reducing the space devoted to Metro or Sports 
news," Sulzberger wrote. "This is simply a way to produce the 
paper more efficiently."  The changes will only affect the New York edition because 
the national edition already is set up in a similar fashion, 
Sulzberger wrote.  Times spokeswoman Catherine Mathis declined to say how much 
money the paper will save.  An article posted on the Times website on Friday quoted 
unidentified executives as saying the savings would be several 
million dollars a year.  The savings will come at the production stage, which will 
result in single runs of the paper being printed on more nights 
than the paper currently has today, Sulzberger wrote.  "That said, we don't make these changes lightly," he wrote. 
"We care deeply about what our New York readers think about 
their edition. We know that many of our readers like and are 
comfortable with our current layout.  Sulzberger is part of the Ochs-Sulzberger family, which has 
controlled the Times for more than a century.  The Times has been searching for ways to cut costs as, like 
most other U.S. newspapers, its advertising revenue falls amid 
a weak economy and a steady migration of readers away from its 
printed edition to the Internet.  New York Times Media Group advertising revenue fell 15.3 
percent in July 2008, compared with the same period a year ago, 
a similar drop to that of many other U.S. papers.  Overall U.S. newspaper advertising revenue fell 16 percent 
in the second quarter to about $8.8 billion, according to 
figures released this week by the Newspaper Association of 
America.  New York Times shares rose 9 cents, or 0.68 percent to 
$13.41 at mid-afternoon on the New York Stock Exchange.  (Reporting by Robert MacMillan, editing by Richard Chang)