-- Fonterra Eyes Australian Fresh Milk Market for Growth
-- Gavin Evans
-- 2007-09-26T05:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-26/fonterra-eyes-australian-fresh-milk-market-for-growth-update1-.html

          
          
             Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world's biggest dairy exporter, plans to increase sales of fresh
milk and yogurt in  Australia  in a strategy to ``significantly''
increase earnings there in the next three years.  
 New Zealand-based Fonterra already has about 30 percent of
Australia's cheese market and accounts for about 16 percent of its
butter and spreads sales. While its priority is to increase
sales at existing businesses, Fonterra will bid for rivals such as
Sydney-based Dairy Farmers if the opportunity arises, Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Ferrier said today.  
 Fonterra is the biggest provider in New Zealand's retail
dairy market and wants to build a matching position in Australia
to maximize profits selling similar products in both countries.
Dairy Farmers, Australia's third-largest milk producer, may combine
with Fonterra and  Goodman Fielder Ltd. (GFF)  in a A$5 billion ($4.4
billion) merger, the Australian newspaper reported today.  
 ``We're watching this, and the rumors that exist are just
that,'' Ferrier told journalists after the company's annual meeting
at Hamilton,  New Zealand . ``We are still interested in growing in
Australia but we don't control the timing'' of potential asset
sales, he said.  
 Fonterra, the world's fifth-largest dairy company by sales,
treats its New Zealand and Australian retailing as a combined
market.  
 Australian Earnings  
 Earnings in Australia jumped 47 percent last year to A$71
million as it combined seven units, shed less profitable brands and
started a joint venture with Lismore-based Norco Cooperative Ltd.
to increase fresh milk sales. A year earlier it bought half of
Melbourne-based Bonlac Foods Ltd. it didn't already own, and
Murrumbidgee Dairy Products.  
 Growth in the two markets and the strength of the company's
brands should be delivering above-average returns, Fonterra's
Australia, New Zealand Managing Director John Doumani told
shareholders today.  
 ``We are achieving reasonable returns,'' he said. ``But we
have ambitions over the next three years to significantly enhance
returns on the business's investments in Australia.''  
 The company plans to build on its strong presence in  Western
Australia , and use the Norco and Murrumbidgee units as a base to
increase fresh milk sales on the country's east coast.  
 While it has to compete for raw milk, Fonterra is comfortable
with its existing supply, Doumani said. It will need to manage
risks associated with further supply declines because of the
country's drought and its own growth ambitions.  
 Milk Supply Risks  
 ``Managing our milk supply in Australia to help fuel the
growth going forward has also got to be a key priority,'' he said.  
 Fonterra yesterday increased its butterfat payment by 10
Australian cents a kilogram and its protein payment by 25 cents.
The increases, backdated to July 1, reflect the high cost of fodder
and grain and the impact of the continued drought, Steve Nelson,
Fonterra's Australian milk supply manager, said in a statement.  
 Dairy Farmers , owned by the 2,400 farmers who supply its milk,
is open to takeover proposals offering better value than the
company's proposed initial share sale, the Australian Financial
Review reported last week, citing Chief Executive Officer Rob Gordon.  
 Fonterra is owned by its 10,900 farmer-shareholders who must
buy shares to supply the company or increase production. It is
reviewing that structure to ensure it has sufficient capital to
fund its global expansion, and as a 75 percent increase in its
share price the past five years risks slowing production growth.  
 The board will present its preferred choice, along with the
conceptual options it considered, in November, Chairman Henry van der Heyden said today. He wouldn't comment on those choices, or say
when a vote on the proposal would be held.  
 ``This  capital structure  will be the biggest decision farmers
in this industry will likely make,'' he said. ``The meeting in
November will just be the start of the process.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Evans in Wellington at 
 gavinevans@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Vercoe in Sydney 
 pvercoe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        