-- Lockheed, SAIC Win Part of $4 Billion Medicare Award
-- Courtney Dentch
-- 2007-09-26T20:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-26/lockheed-saic-win-part-of-4-billion-medicare-award-update3-.html

          
          
             Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the largest
supplier of computer services to the U.S. government, and  SAIC
Inc. (SAI)  each won part of a $4 billion award from the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services to help the agency modernize.  
 The  contract s are for one year and include nine one-year
options, Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed and SAIC said today
in separate statements. Lockheed and SAIC didn't disclose the
specific amount of their awards.  
 The two companies are among 16 which won similar awards,
Lockheed's statement said.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , the third-largest supplier of computer services to the federal government,
announced it received a similar contract earlier this week. Work
will be performed primarily in Baltimore, Lockheed and SAIC
said.  
 The precise scope of work for each company will be
determined at a later date by which task orders they win.
Potential work includes supplying new applications and systems
maintenance, as well as development and implementation of
automated systems and software.  
 Lockheed's shares rose 76 cents to $105.72 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. SAIC, based in  San Diego ,
rose 14 cents to $18.66. Boeing Co. is the second-largest
supplier of computer services to the U.S. government.  
 According to the Federal Business Opportunities Web site,
which publishes all government contracts, other publicly traded
winners of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
computer systems awards include:  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  in Armonk, New York; Electronic Data Systems Corp. in
Plano, Texas; and  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC)  in El Segundo,
California.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Boston at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Courtney Dentch in New York at 
 cdentch1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chapin Wright in New York at 
 cwright4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        