-- European Stocks Advance on View Global Recovery to Continue; Danisco Gains
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-09-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-03/european-stocks-have-biggest-weekly-gain-since-july-on-growth-in-u-s-jobs.html
European stocks  advanced this week
on optimism that the economic recovery will continue, while
central banks said they stand ready to act should growth falter.  Danisco A/S  surged 8.6 percent after the world’s largest
maker of food ingredients posted profit that beat estimates.
Safran SA rose 11 percent after BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research advised buying the shares.  Merck KGaA  fell the most in
the Stoxx 600 after European regulators rejected its multiple
sclerosis pill cladribine. Natixis led a measure of European
banking shares lower as the stock was downgraded at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.4 percent
this week, paring last week’s 0.7 percent slide. The gauge has
rallied 14 percent from its low this year on May 25 as investors
speculated that the economy will continue to grow even as
European nations slash spending to control their budget deficits
and China takes steps to cool its growth.  “Northern Europe is doing extremely well,” said  Martin Huefner , chief economist at Assenagon GmbH in Munich, which has
more than $4.7 billion in client assets. “Germany is the
strongest country in Northern Europe. In the U.S., we still have
a mixed picture, but the economy will also improve, though at a
slower pace.”  German Confidence  German business confidence unexpectedly rose to the highest
level in more than three years in September. The Munich-based
Ifo institute said its business climate index, based on a survey
of 7,000 executives, increased to 106.8 from 106.7 in August.
Economists had expected a drop to 106.4, according to the median
of 36 forecasts in Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., housing starts increased more than forecast in
August, a signal the industry is stabilizing. Orders for  capital
equipment  in the region also topped estimates.  Federal Reserve decision makers said that the central bank
is willing to ease monetary policy further to spur growth and
support prices, while refraining from expanding its holdings of
securities. The Bank of England’s policy makers are moving
closer to adding more stimulus to the economy, joining the Fed
in contemplating further bond purchases to bolster the recovery,
according to the minutes of the bank’s Sept. 9 meeting.  Bond auctions by some of Europe’s most indebted nations
also helped improve sentiment among investors this week. Ireland
sold 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) of bonds as central bank
Governor  Patrick Honohan  said the government needs to cut its
budget deficit at a faster pace. In Spain, the government sold 7
billion euros of 12-month and 18-month bills, the maximum
target.  Calmed Down  “Bond auctions this week calmed down fears temporarily but
the sovereign-debt crisis remains a worry,” said  Christian Falkner , an analyst at Alpha Wertpapierhandels AG in Frankfurt.
“I think there is still more upside for equities towards the
year-end though.”  Still, the Stoxx 600 Index fell for three days this week as
the premium that investors demand to hold government bonds from
Ireland and Portugal rather than benchmark German bunds reached
record levels, indicating the sovereign-debt crisis may worsen
as the recovery slows.  Growth in Europe’s services and manufacturing industries
weakened more than economists forecast in September. A composite
index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing managers in both
industries declined to 53.8 from 56.2 in August, London-based
Markit Economics said. Economists expected a reading of 55.7,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  National benchmark indexes rose in all but 5 of the 18
western European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index and the U.K.’s
 FTSE 100 Index  gained 1.6 percent, while Germany’s DAX Index
rallied 1.4.  Best Quarter       Danisco  surged 8.6 percent. The company lifted its annual
forecast after the sweeteners unit had the best quarter in two
years. Net income in the three months ending July 31 rose 31
percent to 402 million kroner ($71 million), beating the average
estimate of 305 million kroner.  Adidas AG, the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
jumped 6.8 percent. Rival Nike Inc. said orders from China
surged 25 percent as demand for basketball-related sportswear
soared as it posted results that topped analysts’ estimates.  Separately, Adidas’ Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Hainer 
said the company will increase sales and profit in 2011 as China
rebounds and Russia becomes the company’s top European market.  Puma AG , Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, rose
11 percent.  Safran, John Wood  Safran , Europe’s second-biggest aircraft-engine maker,
surged 11 percent. The company was upgraded to “buy” from
“neutral” at BofA Merrill Lynch, citing a commercial aerospace
recovery.  A gauge of European automakers on the Stoxx 600 led gains,
climbing 3.3 percent. Fiat SpA surged 7.5 percent as Goldman
Sachs reiterated its “conviction buy” recommendation on the
Italian carmaker, saying in a note that “the demerger of Fiat
Industrial is a key catalyst to release hidden value in Fiat
Group.”  John Wood Group Plc.  rose 9.7 percent. Oilfield-services
providers rallied after Wellstream Holdings Plc said it received
“a number of preliminary approaches” from potential bidders.
Wellstream soared 34 percent.  Separately, JPMorgan Chase & Co. lifted its recommendation
on the John Wood to “overweight” from “neutral.”  Merck  sank 12 percent, leading healthcare shares to the
biggest retreat in the Stoxx 600. The European Medicines Agency
didn’t recommend approval of the medicine because the benefits
don’t outweigh the risks, Merck said in a statement. Merck is
weighing an appeal and still believes that cladribine has the
potential to generate $1 billion in revenue a year, said  Elmar Schnee , head of the company’s drug unit.  Natixis , the investment-banking unit of France’s second-
largest lender by branches, slumped 6 percent as Goldman Sachs
recommended selling the stock. European banks lost 0.7 percent
this week, the second-worst performance in the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 