-- Tronox Wins Interim Approval of $425 Million Loan to Fund Bankruptcy Exit
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-10-20T20:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-03/tronox-shareholders-file-bankruptcy-plan-valuing-company-at-1-25-billion.html
Tronox Inc. , the bankrupt chemical
maker, won court approval of a $425 million loan to replace a
prior loan for the same amount, funding its exit from
bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Allan Gropper  approved the loan
agreement today on an interim basis at a hearing in New York.
The new loan, syndicated by Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC,
will save Tronox about $1.45 million a month in interest
expense, the company said in court documents.  “You’ve certainly highlighted the benefits of this amended
financing, I will approve the financing,” Gropper told Tronox
lawyer Patrick Nash after hearing that the loan’s interest rate
is 2 percent lower than that of the prior loan.  The loan replaces a $425 million loan approved in December
2009, which funded operations in bankruptcy for the world’s
third-largest producer of the white pigment titanium dioxide.
The first loan had a framework to convert into a bankruptcy exit
loan, but Tronox needed $90 million more to fund its exit after
more payments for environmental and tort claims were needed than
anticipated last year, the company said in court papers.  The need for more funding “prompted Tronox to refinance
both tranches of the Existing Facility (to allow the entire $425
million facility to roll into exit financing) in addition to
pursuing a revolving credit facility,” lawyers for the company
wrote.  Final Order  The loan will default if a final order approving it isn’t
entered by Nov. 17, the date on which Tronox plans to seek final
court approval of its Chapter 11 plan, according to court
papers.  Tronox will also seek court approval of a $125 million
revolving credit facility and has an agreement with Goldman
Sachs Lending Partners on an inter-creditor agreement that
governs the loan, according to court documents.  Oklahoma City-based Tronox filed an outline of a
reorganization plan on Sept. 1 that set aside $320 million to
cover what it estimates are $1.4 billion to $5 billion in
environmental claims. U.S. agencies, including the Environmental
Protection Agency, had asserted as much as $10.5 billion in
liabilities, which Tronox said were overstated.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 