-- A.J. Burnett to Pitch in ALCS as New York Yankees Plan Four-Man Rotation
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-12T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/a-j-burnett-to-pitch-in-alcs-as-new-york-yankees-plan-four-man-rotation.html
A.J. Burnett  will get a chance
to pitch for the New York Yankees during the American
League Championship Series after being left out of the
team’s starting rotation in the opening round of the
playoffs.  Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman  said the team
plans to use four starting pitchers in the best-of-seven
ALCS against the Texas Rangers or Tampa Bay Rays.  Burnett, 33, had a career-high 15 losses in his second
season of a five-year, $82.5 million contract with the
Yankees. Over 12 starts in August, September and October,
Burnett had a 1-7 record with a 6.61 earned run average.  “October can bring out a competitive side in people,
and I know A.J.’s got a lot of competition in him,”
Cashman said, according to MLB.com. “I know he’d like to
eradicate everything that’s occurred here in the second
half. A terrific start would go a long way toward doing
that.”  Burnett didn’t pitch in the best-of-five AL Division
Series, when the Yankees used three starting pitchers --  CC Sabathia ,  Andy Pettitte  and  Phil Hughes  -- in a three-game
sweep of the Minnesota Twins. Sabathia would have pitched a
Game 4 on short rest instead of Burnett.  Burnett, Sabathia and Pettitte were the only pitchers
to start in the 2009 postseason for the Yankees, who became
the first Major League Baseball team since 1991 to win the
World Series using just three starters throughout the
playoffs.  While the ALCS was scheduled to be played over 10 days
last season, there would be seven games in nine days this
year. The series begins Oct. 15.  “You prepare to go with a four-man and see where that
takes us,” Cashman said, adding that the Yankees have to
“prove that we’re not just built for a division series
with off days that are beneficial to us. In this round and
the next round, we’re going to have to prove that we’re
deeper than that.”  Burnett was 10-15 this season with a 5.26 ERA, the
highest in team history for a pitcher who threw at least
180 innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  