-- Ackman Says J.C. Penney Is Attractive After His Hedge Fund Buys a Stake
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-12T21:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/ackman-says-j-c-penney-is-attractive-after-his-hedge-fund-buys-a-stake.html
William Ackman , whose hedge fund
disclosed a stake in  J.C. Penney Co . last week, said the
retailer’s shares are “very cheap” while its balance sheet is
strong and its real-estate holdings are attractive.  “I like a brand that’s lived for 110 years,” Ackman said at
the Value Investing Congress in New York today. The company was
 founded  in Kemmerer, Wyoming, in 1902. “They have very high-
quality assets. When you look at their real estate assets, they
have a better portfolio than their competition.”  Pershing Square Capital Management LP, Ackman’s New York-
based hedge fund, disclosed a 16.5 percent stake in J.C. Penney
on Oct. 8. Ackman buys stock in companies he deems undervalued
and then urges changes he says will boost shareholder returns.
He pushed for a share buyback at  Target Corp . in 2007 and
lobbied restaurant chain Wendy’s International Inc. to sell land
after acquiring a 9.3 percent stake. Ackman said he hasn’t met
with management at Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney yet.  J.C. Penney shares have retreated 61 percent to $33.81
since their February 2007 peak. They surged 9.1 percent the day
before Ackman’s stake was disclosed to the public in a
regulatory filing, jumping from about $29 at 2:45 p.m. in New
York on Oct. 7 to close at $31.64.  Ackman says he’s more bullish about stocks than most
investors and equities are “relatively cheap.” While he sees
trouble ahead for local governments, he hasn’t bet money on that
view, Ackman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  