-- Advanced Cancer Patients Get Unneeded Tests for Other Tumors, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-10-12T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/advanced-cancer-patients-get-unneeded-tests-for-other-tumors-study-finds.html
Patients with advanced incurable
cancer are still routinely screened for additional types of
malignancies, causing anxiety and no benefit for most,
researchers said.  About 9 percent of women in the study age 65 and older, who
were expected to live less than two years because of advanced
cancer, still received at least one mammogram, the study found.
About 15 percent of men with advanced disease also had prostate
cancer screenings, according to the research published today in
the  Journal  of the American Medical Association found.  The researchers said they conducted the study to improve
care for patients and to reduce wasteful spending in Medicare,
the U.S. health program for the elderly and disabled.
Eliminating routine cancer  screenings  for people who already
have advanced tumors may avoid unnecessary biopsies and
psychological distress, the authors said.  “The benefits and risks of cancer screening are very
changed in the face of limited life expectancy,” said the
study’s lead study,  Camelia Sima , an assistant attending
biostatistician at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New
York. “What we think we see here is the manifestation of cancer
screening on auto pilot,” she said in an Oct. 8 telephone
interview  Researchers in the study looked at 87,736 Medicare
recipients who had been diagnosed with advanced cancers of the
lungs, colon, pancreas, esophagus or breast from 1998 to 2005.
They were followed through December 2007 or until their deaths.  Survival Times  The average age of the cancer patients was 75. Survival
ranged from an average of 4.3 months for those with pancreatic
cancer to an average of 16.2 months for those with breast
cancer. The researchers compared them to a group of 87,307
similar Medicare recipients who didn’t have cancer.  The researchers looked at the use of  mammography , Pap tests
and prostate and  colon  screenings in both groups.  The study showed that 8.9 percent of women who had advanced
cancer received at least one mammography screening and 5.8
percent had a  Pap test  compared with 22 percent and 12.5 percent
for the group without cancer. Among the men, 15 percent who had
advanced malignancy received a  prostate cancer  screening test
versus 27.2 percent of those who didn’t have cancer.  The results revealed that the advanced malignancy groups
underwent screening for cancers at rates that were 35 percent to
55 percent that of patients who weren’t ill. This means one in
three or, in some cases, one in two continue to get the cancer
screening even when their limited life expectancy meant it
wouldn’t help them, Sima said.  Many doctors are trained to enforce routine screening in
patients because people don’t always get tests when they should,
said a second author of the research,  Katherine Panageas ,
associate attending biostatistician at Memorial Sloan-Kettering.
That  recommendation  shouldn’t always apply to older advanced
cancer patients who may not live long enough to get any benefit.  “In this particular population, we’re seeing that there’s
evidence of over-utilization,” Panageas said in an Oct. 8
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  