-- Thai Equities to Rally as Concern Over Baht Measures Fades, Manulife Says
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2010-10-12T05:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/thai-equities-to-rally-as-concern-over-baht-measures-fades-manulife-says.html
The Thai benchmark  stock index , the
third-worst performer among Asia’s top 15 markets this month,
may resume a rally on speculation any new measures to curb baht
gains would spare equities, according to  Manulife Asset
Management (Thailand) Co.   Foreigners will accumulate more of the shares on the
expectation consumption and investment will bolster corporate
earnings, and the SET Index may surpass 1,000 “very soon,”
said  Sukkawat Prasurtying , acting chief executive officer at
Bangkok-based Manulife Asset, a unit of Canada’s biggest
insurer. The gauge slid 0.2 percent to 975.84 at 11:29 a.m.  Purchases by  overseas investors  have slowed over the past
week as the baht’s rally to a 13-year high increased speculation
about the likelihood of new measures to limit the currency’s
gain. The government has no plans to limit foreign-capital
inflows even as the currency’s strength hurts the country’s
exports, Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij said on Oct. 9.  “Most investors have been relieved that any measures will
have minimal impact on the stock market,” Sukkawat, who
oversees about 5 billion baht ($166 million) of assets, said in
a phone interview today. “Talks about the measures caused
foreigners to be cautious about investing more in Thai stocks
because of bad memories of past capital controls.”  Thailand last imposed limits on fund inflows in December
2006 to slow baht gains and protect exporters, a measure that
led foreign investors to flee the country’s financial markets
and spurred the benchmark index’s biggest slide in 16 years.  Korn’s Comments  The  SET Index  yesterday rose 1.5 percent, rebounding from a
two-day slide of 1.6 percent, following Korn’s comments over the
weekend. The gauge has risen 0.1 percent in October, the third-
worst performer among Asia’s 15 biggest markets, ahead of only
Taiwan and South Korea. That followed a 22 percent rally in the
third quarter.  The Cabinet will today consider a plan to impose a 15
percent tax on bond investments by foreigners, Korn told
reporters before a Cabinet meeting in Bangkok. The finance
ministry and the central bank unveiled measures last month to
encourage capital outflows and ease baht appreciation, including
a plan to scrap a ceiling on direct investment and lending by
companies to overseas affiliates.  Overseas  investors  have cut average daily net purchases of
Thai equities by 26 percent this month from September, to 1.21
billion baht ($40 million), according to stock exchange data.
Foreign buying had rebounded after May’s record net outflows of
58.7 billion baht amid reduced political tension since deadly
street protests claimed 89 lives in April and May.  Emergency Rule  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  lifted a state of
emergency in all areas apart from Bangkok and three nearby
provinces, after imposing it on 24 of 76 provinces in a
crackdown to control anti-government protests in May.  “Enormous inflows of funds are coming to Asia including
Thailand,” Sukkawat said. “Thai equities remain attractive as
corporate earnings growth is accelerating on a rebound in
consumption and investment following the political unrest.”  Southeast Asia’s second-largest  economy  expanded 9.1
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, more than the
8 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 11
economists, as surging exports countered the effect of political
turmoil.  Sukkawat favors shares of energy and petrochemical
companies on the expectation higher oil prices and lifting of a
construction ban at their plants in the Map Ta Phut industrial
estate will lift earnings.  The Administrative Court on Sept. 2 ruled that most of the
76 industrial projects halted last year because of pollution and
licensing concerns can be restarted, a decision that may resolve
uncertainties about the nation’s investment regulations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  