-- Thailand to Levy 15% Tax on Foreigners' Bond Income
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-10-12T08:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/thailand-to-impose-tax-on-bond-investments-by-foreigners-to-curb-baht-gain.html
Thailand will remove a 15 percent
tax exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds,
joining South Korea and Brazil in seeking to curb currency gains
that threaten exports.  The move will help slow inflows into the debt market,
Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said today. The baht has
advanced 10.9 percent versus the dollar this year, the best
performance among major currencies in Asia outside Japan, as the
fastest economic growth in 15 years attracted global funds.  Developing nations have been selling their own currencies
and taxing global investors to curb appreciation, prompting
calls for the International Monetary Fund to play a greater role
in monitoring capital flows and exchange-rate policy. Brazil
last week doubled a tax it charges foreigners on investment in
fixed-income securities to 4 percent to curb appreciation in the
real, while Japan last month intervened for the first time in
six years to restrain the yen.  “What Thailand is doing is similar to what Brazil has done
and if you look at Brazil, their currency continued to
strengthen,” said  Sim Moh Siong , a Singapore-based currency
strategist at Bank of Singapore Ltd. “It may have a knee-jerk
reaction and may slow down the pace of appreciation, but I don’t
think it will change the medium-term trend.”  Baht Gains  The baht gained 0.1 percent to 30.01 per dollar as of 2:30
p.m. in Bangkok after falling by as much as 0.3 percent earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched
29.81 on Oct. 8, the strongest level since July 1997, the year
its devaluation triggered the so-called Asian financial crisis.  Today’s decision won’t weaken the baht in the short term,
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said. Additional measures to
boost private investment may be proposed by the finance ministry
in the next two weeks, he said.  The Cabinet also approved measures to help boost outflows
by accelerating budget disbursements in foreign currencies, Korn
said. In the fourth quarter, the government plans to spend 48.99
billion baht ($1.63 billion) in foreign currencies, he said.  Other measures approved today to support small- and medium-
sized exporters struggling with the rising baht include state
banks providing help with forward contracts and offering dollar
loans, according to the statement issued by the finance ministry.  ‘Happy Problem’  Korn at the weekend said the appreciation of the baht was a
“happy problem,” that reflects economic strength even as it
means goods made in Thailand become more expensive for overseas
buyers. “I don’t think a country like ours can forcibly change
the fundamental direction of our currency,” Korn said in an Oct.
9 interview in Washington.  Brazil’s Real has added 1.2 percent since the tax increase
was announced on Oct. 4. South Korea’s won strengthened 1.2
percent since Oct. 5, when regulators said they will start an
audit of lenders handling foreign-currency derivatives on Oct.
19, through yesterday. The won today dropped 1.3 percent on
concern the Bank of Korea will intervene to curb gains.  Indonesia’s central bank said on June 16 it will require
investors in one-month bills to hold the securities for at least
four weeks. The rupiah has appreciated 2.3 percent since then.  Thailand, Southeast Asia’s biggest economy after Indonesia,
had its best two consecutive quarters of growth since 1995 in
the first half. The finance ministry on Sept. 27 raised its 2010
forecast for the third time in six months, to as much as 7.8
percent from a June estimate of 6 percent. That would be the
fastest pace of economic expansion in 15 years.  Export-Led Recovery  Exports , which account for about two-thirds of Thailand’s
economy, increased 23.6 percent in August from a year earlier
after rising 21.2 percent in July and 47.1 percent in June,
official figures show.  Government bonds rose today. The yield on the 3.625 percent
debt due May 2015 dropped 14 basis points to 2.569 percent,
according to Bloomberg data. The  rate  yesterday rose the most in
five months. The removal of the tax exemption won’t cause an
outflow of funds because the rule doesn’t apply to investors who
bought bonds earlier, Korn said today.  Overseas investors have poured a net $1.1 billion into Thai
bonds this month after pumping a net $4.9 billion into the debt
in the third quarter, according to  Thai Bond Market Association .
The average daily trading of foreign investors in the secondary
market doubled to 5 billion baht in the first nine months from
2.5 billion baht last year, Thai Bond Market Association
President  Niwat Kanjanaphoomin  said yesterday.  “The tax measures may help slow down the baht’s strength
and foreign buying in Thai bonds,” he said. “But I don’t think
the impact will be massive and it won’t drive away foreign
investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  