-- Malaysia's Ringgit Slips as Fed Officials Play Down Speculation For Easing
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-10-12T01:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/malaysia-s-ringgit-slips-as-fed-officials-play-down-speculation-for-easing.html
Malaysia’s ringgit dropped to the
lowest level in more than three weeks after Federal Reserve
officials played down the benefits of more monetary easing,
damping demand for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  The currency also declined after Reuters reported yesterday
that China had ordered its biggest banks to set aside more cash
as reserves. Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said yesterday low
interest rates may give firms the incentive to engage in
excessive risk-taking. Fed Bank of Kansas City President Thomas
Hoenig said the U.S. economy wouldn’t be aided by purchasing
more Treasuries.  “Traders are buying back their dollars after Fed officials
yesterday signaled that they may not want low rates for too
long,” said  Godwin Chan , a foreign-exchange trader at OSK
Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “The Fed is in a dilemma
on quantitative easing and my hunch is it will be in small
tranches. China’s reserves hike yesterday was also unexpected
and a setback for the bulls.”  The ringgit fell 0.5 percent to 3.1122 per dollar as of
9:39 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur and reached 3.1158, the weakest level
since Sept. 17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has rallied 10 percent this year and reached a 13-year
high on Sept. 29 as global funds plowed funds into Asia’s
emerging markets because of the growth outlook.  “We’ve been able to absorb” the gains in the currency
because of the economy’s flexibility, Bank Negara Malaysia
Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said on Oct. 10. Central bankers
haven’t met with exporters recently about the need for support
measures to shield them from the rising ringgit because “it is
not an issue of concern” at this time, she said.  Zeti “seems more than happy to leave the ringgit where it
is for now,” OSK’s Chan said.  China’s bank reserve requirement ratio for six commercial
lenders will increase 50 basis points for two months, Reuters
reported yesterday, citing four unidentified people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 