-- Alibaba Trials China Search Engine, Challenging Baidu
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-10-12T10:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/alibaba-starts-public-trial-of-internet-search-engine-in-china.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. , China’s
biggest online commerce company, started trials of a
search-engine service, challenging  Baidu Inc.  in the world’s
biggest Internet market by users.  Alibaba’s Taobao online shopping unit has opened its
Etao.com search-engine service for public testing, Justine Chao,
a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at the company, said in an e-mail
today. She declined to provide details.  The e-commerce company is entering a market dominated by
Beijing-based Baidu, whose stock has more than doubled this year
as Chinese companies increase spending on keyword advertising.
The creation of Etao.com, which uses  Microsoft Corp. ’s Bing
technology, is part of Alibaba’s efforts to diversify into new
businesses including money-lending and online payments.  “Alibaba’s search engine may be more focused on specific
applications like online shopping, and more niche than general-
purpose search-engines like Baidu,” said  Galant Ng , an analyst
at Taifook Securities in Hong Kong. The partnership with Alibaba
will help Microsoft’s Bing operations, he said.  Baidu  rose  1.1 percent to $99.74 in New York trading
yesterday, and have gained 143 percent this year. The company
accounted for 70.8 percent of China’s search-engine market in
the second quarter, according to research company iResearch Inc.  Ye Peng , former chief operating officer at Baidu, has
joined Taobao as vice-president, Alibaba said today.  Alibaba is following biggest shareholder  Yahoo! Inc.  in
using the Bing search-engine technology. Yahoo agreed to
integrate its search unit with that of Microsoft’s.  In April, Alibaba said it was granted a license to lend
money to small businesses. The Hangzhou, eastern China-based
company also operates the Alipay online payment service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  