-- AllianceBernstein’s Oden Hones Survival Skills in Boxing Ring
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/alliancebernstein-s-oden-sharpens-survival-skills-battling-in-boxing-ring.html
On Wednesday nights, money manager
 John Oden  leaves his tailored suit and Hermes tie in the locker
room at the New York Athletic Club and climbs into the boxing
ring in red Everlast gloves and white high-top sneakers.  The dignified principal at  AllianceBernstein LP  turns into
6-foot-4-inch, 210-pound, sweating, jabbing pugilist for five 3-
minute rounds.  “We are not trying to injure each other,” says Oden,
gulping water during a break. “We just do it for exercise and
fun and to stay in shape.” Oden and his current sparring
partner, Chris Angle, a vice president for investment banking at
Puritan Securities Inc. in Westport, Connecticut, have gone
about 1,000 rounds.  Scores of bankers, lawyers and industrialists turn to
boxing to boost adrenalin, build muscle and battle middle-age
blues. At Gleason’s Gym in Brooklyn, the 650 white-collar boxers
make up more than half the clientele. The proportion in 1982 was
3 out of 400, according to Bruce Silverglade, Gleason’s
president.  Silverglade coined the term “white-collar boxing” in 1991
to create a niche for people who were too old to become amateur
boxers and not talented enough to be professional boxers, he
says.  “It’s a very good way to relieve stress and aggravation,”
Silverglade says. “But it’s not for everyone.”  For Oden, boxing has been much more than rigorous exercise.
Since he picked it up in 1992, he has competed in more than 20
matches, losing only two and avoiding knock-outs. Although he
stopped competing in 2004, the sport provided the material for
two books and a perspective on surviving the economic turmoil.  Awful Trip  “The ability to dig down and make a comeback in business
is just the same as it is in boxing,” says Oden, who describes
himself as being “on the dark side of 50.” His first book was
“White Collar Boxing: One Man’s Journey From the Office to the
Ring” (2005).  While Oden was writing the second, “Life in the Ring:
Lessons and Inspirations From the Sport of Boxing,” during the
period January-June 2009, AllianceBernstein’s investors pulled
$44 billion from its funds. On March 9, 2009, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell to 676.53, the lowest level since
September 1996. The New York-based company currently manages
$466 billion.  “It was an awful time,” says Oden, sitting in a 36th-
floor conference room overlooking Central Park. “Everyone I
know suffered.”  Many of the 12 boxers he was writing about, including
George Foreman,  Bernard Hopkins  and James J. Braddock, overcame
tougher challenges, he says.  “I am talking about growing up in ghettos, having no
education or role models, going to prison,” Oden says.  The Pinnacle  Like the business world, boxing requires “manic”
preparation and 100 percent concentration, Oden says. Before his
fights, he learned about his opponents and worked out 10 times a
week.  “Even if people don’t appreciate the sport, they
appreciate and understand the discipline and preparation
required to do the sport,” Oden says. “Who wouldn’t want
someone working for him that has these qualities, who prepares
this way for something?”  In 2006, white-collar boxing competitions were banned in
New York State. Oden has been lobbying to overturn the
prohibition. The bouts will become legal in the New York
metropolitan area as part of a yearlong test by USA Boxing, a
national organization that governs amateur competitions.  The pinnacle of Oden’s boxing career occurred in 2004, when
he won a match in London after being coached by  Emanuel Steward ,
who had trained 41 world boxing champions, including  Oscar De La Hoya ,  Lennox Lewis  and  Wladimir Klitschko .  “I had a two-page spread in BusinessWeek. I had the best
trainer in the world in my corner,” Oden says. “We were kings
for the night.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 