-- Ally Won’t Stop Foreclosures in Minnesota, State Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-12T21:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/ally-s-gmac-won-t-stop-foreclosures-during-policy-review-minnesota-says.html
Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage
unit rejected a request to stop foreclosures in Minnesota
pending a review of policies, the state’s attorney general said.  Ally last month stopped evictions in 23 states where courts
supervise home seizures over concerns its foreclosure process
may be illegal. Minnesota, which doesn’t require judicial action
on foreclosures, wasn’t among them.  State Attorney General  Lori Swanson  on Oct. 6 asked GMAC to
“temporarily suspend its foreclosures” pending a review of
policies and procedures, she said today in a letter to U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner . GMAC told Minnesota it
“did not plan” to do so, she wrote. She asked the Treasury
Department to press GMAC to expand the suspension of
foreclosures to her state.  “In light of the sloppiness and lax practices that GMAC
has shown in other states, I question how it can definitively
attest to the accuracy of the information contained in documents
used in foreclosures” in Minnesota, Swanson wrote.  “We’re requesting that the Treasury Department intervene”
because GMAC is majority-owned by the federal government,
Swanson’s spokesman, Benjamin Wogsland, said today in an
interview.  Jim Olecki, an Ally spokesman, declined to comment on the
letter.  “We have not halted foreclosures in any states but had
suspended evictions and foreclosure sales in the 23 judicial
states,” he said today in an interview.  Review of Procedures  The company has hired independent legal and accounting
firms to review foreclosure procedures in all 50 states, he
said.  Authorities in at least nine states, including Minnesota,
have begun investigations into foreclosure practices at some of
the nation’s largest lenders. A coalition of state attorneys
general is planning to announce a multistate investigation
tomorrow, according to Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum .  Swanson will join that investigation as well as continuing
an independent probe, Wogsland said.  Bank of America Corp. , the largest U.S. lender, extended a
freeze on foreclosures to all 50 states Oct. 8 as concern spread
among federal and state officials that home seizures are being
based on faulty data.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  has also stopped repossessions is the
23 states with judicial supervision over foreclosures. Litton
Loan Servicing LP, a mortgage-servicing business owned by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , said Oct. 8 it’s halting some
foreclosures to review how they’re handled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 