-- Alstom Targets Annual Indian Power-Division Sales of Over $1.4 Billion
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-12T13:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/alstom-targets-1-billion-euros-of-sale-to-india-power-generating-companies.html
Alstom SA  is targeting annual sales
of power equipment in India of more than 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) after making what it said was the lowest bid for a
local contract.  Alstom, the world’s third-largest power-equipment maker,
and partner Bharat Forge Ltd. offered to supply  NTPC Ltd. ,
India’s biggest electricity producer, with steam turbines and
alternators for 660-megawatt plants for “slightly less” than
700 million euros, said Denis Cochet, senior vice president of
sales and marketing for Alstom’s power division.  “We’re very well placed to get this contract” for five
power plants, Cochet said today in a phone interview. “With
orders like that and others, we’re hoping to grow in India, to
go from several hundred million euros of annual revenue to more
than a billion euros within several years.”  India, Asia’s second-fastest growing economy, is adding
power-generating capacity to help reduce blackouts. Alstom,
based in the Paris suburb of Levallois-Perret, is banking on
emerging nations to revive revenue as a  slump  in investments by
European and U.S. utilities prompted the manufacturer to
announce about 4,000 job cuts this month at divisions that
supply gas- and coal-fired plants.  The Alstom-Bharat Forge venture beat  Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd. , India’s biggest power-equipment maker, and a
venture owned by Toshiba Corp. and JSW Group, Cochet said.
Alstom and Bharat Forge may get contracts for some or all of six
more plants from state-owned NTPC should the competitors refuse
to provide equipment at Alstom’s price, he said.  Lowest Bid  NTPC confirmed in a response to e-mailed questions that
Alstom was the lowest bidder. The Toshiba venture submitted the
highest bid followed by Bharat Heavy, the company said.  Alstom and Bharat Forge are building a plant in India that
will be able to supply 5,000 megawatts of equipment a year,
Cochet said. The plant will start operations in mid-2011, and
will work at full capacity in mid-2012, he said.  “Having local costs is the way to beat the Chinese,”
Cochet said. Alstom is also bidding in partnership with BHEL to
supply boilers for the 11 coal-fired plants planned by NTPC.  Alstom’s orders for power systems and services dropped 35
percent in the April to June period to 1.95 billion euros, and
sales fell 6 percent to 3.17 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  