-- U.K.'s FTSE 100 Rises to Highest Level Since April; Fresnillo, ARM Advance
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-10-13T16:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/man-group-plc-william-morrison-supermarkets-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks  climbed to the highest
level in almost six months after minutes from last month’s
Federal Reserve meeting showed U.S. policy makers are prepared
to pump more cash into the economy to protect the recovery.  Fresnillo Plc  advanced 3.3 percent as the world’s largest
primary silver producer said output rose to a record. ARM
Holdings Plc rallied 1.8 percent after Intel Corp.’s forecast
for fourth-quarter sales topped analysts’ estimates. Standard
Chartered Plc lost 1.7 percent after the bank said it plans to
raise about 3.3 billion pounds ($5.2 billion) in a rights offer.
Kesa Electricals Plc surged 9.5 percent on takeover speculation.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  gained 85.76, or 1.5 percent,
to 5,747.35 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the highest level
since April 26. The FTSE All-Share Index rose 1.5 percent and
Ireland’s ISEQ Index climbed 0.7 percent.  The FTSE 100 has rallied 20 percent since the start of July
amid speculation the Fed will next month announce plans to
stimulate economic growth as the recovery wanes. Minutes from
the U.S. central bank published later yesterday showed policy
makers “wanted to consider further the most effective framework
for calibrating and communicating any additional steps to
provide such stimulus.”  ‘More Bullish’  “Clearly the U.S. economy with its very high levels of
debt needs as much quantitative easing to get it going again,”
 Andreas Utermann , the chief investment officer at the RCM unit
of Allianz Global Investors, which manages about $1.1 trillion,
said on Bloomberg Television’s Countdown with Francine Lacqua.
“I’m probably slightly more bullish on equities than I was six
months ago.”  Fresnillo  rose 3.3 percent to 1,282 pence as output climbed
to a record in the third quarter and the company said it expects
to “slightly beat” its full-year output forecasts for gold and
silver. Rival mining companies Xstrata Plc, Anglo American Plc,
and  Vedanta Resources Plc  surged 4.4 percent to 1,300 pence, 5.4
percent to 2,884 pence and 5.9 percent to 2,347 pence,
respectively.  Copper rose to a 27-month high on prospects for increased
consumption of the metal from China. Reports today showed
China’s foreign-exchange reserves increased by a record to $2.65
trillion at the end of September while a 25 percent jump in
exports lifted its trade surplus to $16.9 billion.  ARM, the U.K. designer of chips that power Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, gained 1.8 percent to 382.3 pence. Intel said revenue
In the fourth quarter will be $11.4 billion, plus or minus $400
million. That compares with an average projection of $11.3
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kesa Climbs  Kesa Electricals  surged 9.5 percent to 165.3 pence, the
most since April 2009, amid speculation that the operator of
Comet electronics stores in the U.K. may be a takeover target.  Best Buy may make an offer, the Financial Times Alphaville
column said, without saying whether it was referring to Best Buy
Co. or Best Buy Europe, a joint venture between the Richfield,
Minnesota-based company and Carphone Warehouse Group Plc. A
spokesman for Kesa declined to comment.  Standard Chartered declined 1.7 percent to 1,876 after
saying investors will be offered one new share at 1,280 pence
for every eight they already own. Lenders are raising surplus
capital as their regulators weigh whether to force the largest
banks to hold more capital than the minimum level agreed by
international regulators in Basel last month.  Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest bank, dropped 0.9
percent to 292 pence.  ‘Thin End’  The question now “is quite simply whether the Standard
Chartered move is going to be the thin end of the wedge,” said
 Richard Hunter , the London-based head of U.K. equities at the
stockbroker Hargreaves Lansdown Plc. “Barclays is potentially
being seen as the next one that might need to make a similar
announcement to improve their capital buffer.”  In the U.S., JPMorgan Chase & Co. became the first U.S.
bank to report third-quarter results. The lender reported third-
quarter profit of $1.01 a share, beating the 88-cent average
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Petrofac Plc  gained 4.2 percent to 1,474 pence as Morgan
Stanley raised its recommendation for the oilfield-services
provider to “overweight” from “equal weight” and the U.S.
government lifted its ban on deep-water drilling ahead of
schedule.  Bodycote Plc  rallied 9.1 percent to 301 pence. The supplier
of metal-strengthening services said sales in the remainder of
the financial year should be stable and it expects annual
operating profit at the upper end of the range of analysts’
forecasts.  Man, Hammerson  Man Group Plc  gained 4.8 percent to 269 pence as the hedge-
fund manager said the weekly net asset value of Man AHL
Diversified Futures Ltd. was $40.56 at the close of business on
Oct. 11, up 4.5 percent compared with the previous week’s close.  Hammerson Plc  climbed 2.1 percent to 423.8 pence. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation for the real estate
investment trust to “conviction buy” from “neutral.”  Burberry Group Plc  fell for the first time this week,
losing 3 percent to 1,008 pence. The U.K.’s largest luxury
retailer said annual profit will be in the “top half” of
analysts’ estimates, disappointing those who expected upgrades
after second-quarter sales beat their goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 