-- New York Bans Manatt Law Firm From Pension-Fund Placements for Five Years
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-10-12T17:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/manatt-law-firm-banned-5-years-by-cuomo-from-n-y-pension-fund-placements.html
Law firm  Manatt Phelps & Phillips
LLP  agreed to be banned for five years from appearing before any
New York public pension fund and will pay $550,000 to the state,
Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  said.  The accord stems from Manatt’s representation of financial
firms seeking investments from public pension funds without a
securities license, Cuomo said today in an e-mailed statement.  Manatt, based in Los Angeles, secured meetings on behalf of
firms seeking investments from pension funds in states such as
New York and California. From 2004 to 2006, Manatt and a
California-based lobbyist partner, Platinum Advisors, each
received $187,500 in fees for helping place a $25 million
investment by the California Public Employees’ Retirement System
in Levine Leichtman Capital Partners Fund, Cuomo said.  “Unlicensed agents are untrained, unsupervised and
typically traffic in political and personal connections to get
access to public money,” Cuomo said in the statement. “We have
seen all varieties of this risky behavior and now it includes a
prominent national law firm.”  Manatt also made or tried to make introductions to pension
funds for New York state and city employees and to the state
teachers retirement system, though no investments resulted from
those efforts and the firm received no compensation, Cuomo said.  The firm is quoted in Cuomo’s statement saying it is
“pleased to put this matter behind us.”  Cuomo, the Democratic candidate for governor, started in
2007 investigating corruption at New York’s Common Retirement
Fund, the third-largest in the U.S., recently valued at
$124.8 billion. At least seven people have pleaded guilty to
criminal charges, 15 investment firms have settled and more than
$139 million has been paid to the fund and to the state.  Manatt, like others who have come to terms with Cuomo,
agreed to adopt reforms that include a ban on placement agents
obtaining investments from public pension funds and limits on
campaign contributions to those with the power to assign
investment business.  “We commend Attorney General Cuomo for investigating the
placement process for pension fund investments and we embrace
his new Reform Code of Conduct,” the firm said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 