-- Manchester United's Hargreaves May Quit If Comeback Fails: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-10-12T09:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/manchester-united-s-hargreaves-may-quit-if-comeback-fails-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Hargreaves’s Last Chance?  Manchester United midfielder  Owen Hargreaves  is set to
retire if his latest comeback from tendinitis in both knees
fails,  the Sun  reported.  The 29-year-old is poised to make his first club start in
two years, against Wolves in the League Cup on Oct. 26. He’s
twice had to call off returns to action because of setbacks to
his recovery, the newspaper said.  He’ll make “one last big push” to come back but may quit
if that is unsuccessful, the Sun cited a friend of the ex-Bayern
Munich player as saying.  Ivanovic Contract  Chelsea defender Branislav Ivanovic is poised to extend his
contract with the London club, the  Daily Mail  said, citing his
agent.  Vlado Borozan rejected speculation the player would move to
Juventus in the January transfer window, to play alongside
fellow Serb  Milos Krasic . Ivanovic, 26, joined the Blues from
Lokomotiv Moscow in January 2008.  Inter Pair Hurt  Inter Milan striker  Diego Milito  and midfielder  Esteban Cambiasso  are set to miss the Champions League match with
Tottenham on Oct. 20 because of injury,  the Mail  reported.  Inter said both players sustained thigh strains in
Argentina’s 1-0 loss in Japan last week. They may be out for
three weeks.  Xisco Loan?  Newcastle is ready to loan out Spanish striker  Xisco , who
joined from Deportivo La Coruna in a 5.7 million-pound ($9
million) deal two years ago, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The 24-year-old striker, who spent last season at Racing
Santander, is now “way down the pecking order” at Newcastle,
the Mirror added. A new loan deal could reduce the burden of his
50,000 pounds-a-week wages, the paper said.  Sven’s Target  Sven-Goran Eriksson  may make Fulham defender Fredrik Stoor
his first signing after taking over as Leicester coach, the
 Mirror  reported.  Eriksson wants to sign the 26-year-old Sweden international
on loan until January, the newspaper added. He’s “surplus to
requirements” at the London club, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 