-- Apple-Motorola, EasyJet, BSkyB: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2010-10-12T12:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/apple-motorola-easyjet-porsche-venture-capital-intellectual-property.html
A  Motorola Inc.  unit sued computer
manufacturer  Apple Inc.  asking a court to rule it doesn’t
infringe 12 Apple patents for mobile telephone technology, and
that the patents aren’t valid. The patent action is the latest
in a series of lawsuits involving the two companies. The unit of
Schaumburg, Illinois-based Motorola Inc. filed three lawsuits
and a trade complaint against Cupertino, California-based Apple
on Oct. 6 alleging infringement of 18 patents.  In a suit filed Oct. 8, Motorola Mobility Inc. contends in
that Apple has “a history of asserting the patents-in-suit,”
and that it has “a reasonable apprehension” Apple will sue
Motorola over its phones with  Google Inc. ’s Android operating
system.  Motorola seeks a jury trial, non-infringement and patent-
invalidity rulings and an award of legal fees and costs from
Apple, according to papers filed in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a voicemail message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The new Delaware case is Motorola Mobility Inc. v. Apple
Inc., U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  EasyJet Settles Brand Dispute With Founder Stelios  EasyJet Plc  resolved a brand-license dispute with founder
Stelios Haji-Ioannou, giving Europe’s second-largest discount
airline greater freedom to boost revenue through marketing deals
with other travel companies.  The airline will retain the right to the EasyJet name for
as long as 50 years, with a minimum commitment of 10 years, by
paying an annual royalty of 0.25 percent of total revenue, fixed
at 3.9 million pounds ($6.2 million) and 4.95 million pounds in
the first and second years, EasyJet said yesterday in a
statement. The Luton, England-based company reported sales of
2.67 billion pounds in the last fiscal year.  Stelios, who prefers to be known by his first name, alleged
that EasyJet had infringed on an agreement it signed with his
EasyGroup holding company in November 2000, shortly before the
 airline ’s initial offering of shares to investors. The dispute
centered on whether the carrier was violating terms of the
contract specifying that at least 75 percent of sales must come
from airline operations.  “We see this as a new chapter in working with EasyGroup
going forward,” EasyJet Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall
said yesterday on a conference call with reporters. “It gives
us more freedom to use the brand.”  EasyJet’s other investors, who must approve the agreement,
are “very supportive,” McCall said. The executive, who became
CEO in July, said the dispute with Stelios, the carrier’s
biggest shareholder, had cost the company about 4 million pounds
in legal fees.  Stelios, 43, also agreed to give up the right to appoint
himself chairman of EasyJet and to end EasyGroup’s
representation on the airline’s board, the company said. The
entrepreneur  owns  about 36 percent of EasyJet, according to
EasyGroup, including a portion through the holding company.  For more, click here.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets  Porsche Curbs Facebook ‘Threat,’ Shields Itself Against Spying  Porsche AG  is blocking employees’ access to social-
networking platforms such as Facebook Inc. and  Xing  to shield
the sports-car maker from industrial espionage.  Porsche, based in Stuttgart, Germany, is concerned that
foreign intelligence services may be spying on workers posting
“confidential” information on Facebook and other Web-based
services, exposing the carmaker to unwanted observation, Dirk
Erat, a Porsche spokesman, said yesterday by phone.  “These services imply a certain threat potential,” Erat
said. Barring access at workstations to sites including  EBay
Inc.  reflects “principal company policy,” he said.  Facebook pledged in May to fine-tune privacy settings,
simplifying the way personal information is shared. The company,
which has more than 500 million members, had drawn criticism
from users and lawmakers, who complained that it hadn’t gone far
enough to keep private data under wraps.  Initial Public Offerings  Venture Funding Shrinks Leaving Scores of ‘Walking Dead’ Firms  Stung by a drought in technology initial public offerings,
venture capital investing plunged in 2010, with the number of
active firms dropping 47 percent in the first half from last
year, according to Ernst & Young LLP.  The number of U.S. venture firms making at least one
investment a quarter sank to 167 through June from 313 in all of
2009, the accounting firm said this month in a report: “The
Limited Partner Venture Capital Sentiment Survey.”  The decline in IPOs has led to deteriorating returns at
venture-capital companies, making it harder for them to raise
new funds. That’s created a class of “walking dead” firms that
are only working with their existing portfolio companies and
don’t have the cash to make new investments, said Bryan Pearce,
Americas director at Ernst & Young, in Boston.  “It’s going to be harder for startups to raise money
because there are fewer places to go,” said Pearce, who worked
on the survey. For the struggling firms, “it’s a slow and
painful death,” he said.  Pensions and endowments invest in venture-capital funds
with the expectation that in a 10-year period the fund will buy
stakes in startups and profit by helping them go public or get
bought. That strategy, which paid off in the 1990s, has
backfired during the past decade because of the bursting of the
dot-com bubble and the more recent financial crisis.  Another survey, from law firm  DLA Piper LLP , says that
almost 64 percent of venture capitalists, entrepreneurs and
technology executives don’t expect IPOs to return to where they
were in the late 1990s and early part of 2000. Close to 60
percent of those executives say the venture model is
“permanently altered,” according to the “Technology Leaders
Forecast Survey,” being released by DLA Piper this week.  “If there is a long-term expectation that the IPO market
will not rebound, that means a reduction in the number of
dramatic home runs for venture-capital investors and lower
overall returns,” Peter Astiz, DLA Piper’s global co-head of
technology, said in the report. “Fewer IPOs also means fewer
small- and medium-size public technology companies, which
traditionally have been the acquirers from many of the
technology company exits.”  Of the startups that venture capitalists first invested in
during 2000, 61 percent have gone out of business or are still
private, according to the Ernst & Young report, meaning they’ve
yielded nothing to shareholders. Only 2 percent of initial
investments from that year were in companies that have gone
public.  IPOs have picked up this year, with 40 venture-backed
companies going public through the first three quarters,
compared with 18 in 2008 and 2009 combined, according to the
 National Venture Capital Association . The total is down from
2007, when there were 86 venture-backed IPOs, and is a fraction
of the 264 in 2000.  Copyright  Eminem’s Publisher Files Motion in Case Against Apple  The lawsuit that pitted rapper Eminem’s publisher, Eight
Mile Style, against Aftermath Records, a unit of Universal Music
Group, and  Apple Inc.  over royalties settled last year for an
undisclosed amount. Last week, however, the lawyers for the
plaintiffs were back in federal court in Detroit seeking to
enforce the settlement and receive attorneys’ fees.  The latest salvo, according to the court docket, is a
motion to enforce the “settlement agreement and attorneys’ fees
in excess of $2.2 million.”  In September, Universal Music Group, a  Vivendi  unit, lost a
separate federal appeals court ruling over royalties from Apple
Inc. iTunes downloads and mobile-phone ringtones in a  lawsuit 
brought by the Detroit producers who helped start rapper
Eminem’s career.  Because the Eight Mile Style case is under seal, the
plaintiffs’ lawyers, Howard Hertz of Hertz Schram of Bloomfield
Hills, Michigan, and Richard S. Busch of Nashville, Tennessee’s
King & Ballow couldn’t comment on the Oct. 5 motion. An Apple
spokesperson also declined to comment. The lawyers for
Aftermath, a unit of Vivendi’s Universal Music Group, and Apple,
Kelly M. Klaus of Munger, Tolles & Olson in Los Angeles and
Daniel D. Quick of Dickinson Wright in Bloomfield Hills, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  The case is Eight Mile Style LLC v. Apple Computer Inc.,
2:07-cv-13164-VAR-DAS, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan (Detroit).  For more copyright news, click here.  Media  U.K. Newspapers Join BBC in Opposition to BSkyB Deal  U.K. newspapers and the British Broadcasting Corp. asked
the government to block Rupert Murdoch-controlled News Corp.’s
bid to take over the rest of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc ,
saying it harms the public interest.  In a joint letter, the director general of the BBC and the
owners of newspapers including the Daily Telegraph and the
Guardian demanded that Business Secretary  Vince Cable  challenge
the deal. The companies wrote that the takeover would expand
News Corp.’s control of U.K. media outlets. The BBC, Guardian
Media Group Plc, phone operator BT Group Plc and Channel Four
Television Corp. confirmed sending the letter.  “We believe that the proposed takeover could have serious
and far-reaching consequences for media plurality,” according
to the letter posted on the Financial Times’ Alphaville  website .  Murdoch’s  News Corp. in June offered 7.8 billion pounds
($12.4 billion) in its initial bid for the 61 percent it doesn’t
already own of BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-television
operator. BSkyB rejected the offer as too little, and the final
price of the deal won’t be negotiated until regulatory approval
is received. News Corp. owns the Times, Sunday Times and Sun
newspapers in the U.K.  The objection may put the coalition government of Prime
Minister  David Cameron  in a quandary. Murdoch’s newspaper the
Sun, which is the country’s biggest tabloid, backed Cameron’s
Conservative Party in Britain’s May general election.  For more, click here. 