-- ArcelorMittal South Africa Battle Pits Investors Against Ethics Guidelines
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-12T11:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/arcelormittal-south-africa-battle-pits-investors-against-ethics-guidelines.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd.’s 
planned sale of a 9.1 billion rand ($1.3 billion) stake to a
group of black investors, including a son of President  Jacob Zuma , is pitting shareholders against United Nations principles
on good governance, investors say.  The deal, aimed at meeting laws designed to compensate for
discrimination during apartheid, is forcing investors to weigh
their financial needs against ethical rules set out in the UN’s
 Principles for Responsible Investment , said  David Couldridge , an
investment analyst at  Element Investment Managers , which owns
shares in the steelmaker.  Jagdish Parekh , who is investing in
the company together with Zuma’s son  Duduzane , declined to
comment when called yesterday.  Under the terms of the deal, ArcelorMittal South Africa is
selling a 26 percent stake to black investors. The Ayigobi
Consortium, a group of investors led by  Sandile Zungu , who sits
on the boards of South African companies including miners and
shippers, will receive 21 percent.  Five of the steelmaker’s biggest minority shareholders,
including the Public Investment Corp., Africa’s largest pension
fund manager, and Sanlam Ltd., have said they’ll oppose the deal
because of concerns about corporate governance. The PIC, which
manages government pensions, “questions the ethics” of the
proposal and won’t support it until “perceived irregularities”
are resolved, it said on Oct. 4.  ‘Politically Sensitive’  ArcelorMittal , which has a  controlling  stake in the South
African unit, is “monitoring the situation in South Africa very
closely,” it said in an e-mailed response to questions,
declining to comment further.  Both Sanlam and the PIC have signed the UN charter, which
has 800 members with combined assets of $22 trillion. The rules
compel investors to always “be an active shareholder and not
sit on the fence,” Couldridge said from Cape Town on Oct. 5.  The deal is “politically sensitive” and has been “rushed
through,” with buyers able to sell in four years and with no
proof it will benefit a  broad range  of black people, he said.  “A few individuals are receiving the majority of the
shares when it should be the other way around,” Couldridge
said. “Apart from influence, what else do they bring?”  Duduzane Zuma plans to give away 70 percent of his stake in
ArcelorMittal South Africa, worth almost 1 billion rand, to
disadvantaged South Africans, he said in a Sept. 12 statement.  Disputed Mineral Rights  The deal hinges on disputed mining rights at  Sishen , South
Africa’s largest iron ore mine. Imperial Crown Trading Ltd.,
whose owners form part of Ayigobi, was awarded part of the
prospecting rights to the mine and deposit after ArcelorMittal
South Africa missed a renewal deadline.  Duduzane Zuma, 28, is also in business with Imperial’s
biggest shareholder,  Parekh .  The award to Imperial sparked a battle with  Anglo American
Plc’s   Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , Sishen’s owner, which demanded the
disputed right for itself. Kumba also used the conflict to
cancel a supply deal that had given the steelmaker most of its
ore at a discount.  “How Imperial got the mineral rights must be clarified,”
said  Asief Mohamed , chief investment officer of  Aeon Investment
Management , from Cape Town. “If no-one can sort that out, they
shouldn’t even be talking about the empowerment deal. These
resources belong to the people of this country.”  ‘Much Cheaper’  ArcelorMittal South Africa said on Aug. 10 that it agreed
to buy Imperial to regain the Sishen rights. The deal will be
canceled if Imperial loses the rights in court.  If the empowerment deal proceeds, even with concerns about
governance, it may be “much cheaper” than ArcelorMittal paying
Kumba for the full value of the rights,  Simon Hudson-Peacock ,
head of specialist equities at Cape Town’s  Cadiz Asset
Management , said by e-mail.  In addition to minority investors, labor unions and
political parties have voiced their opposition to the deal. The
opposition Democratic Alliance party said on Oct. 6 that it will
ask the Financial Services Board to probe the deal if its
approved by shareholders, while the Congress of South African
Trade Unions, the nation’s largest labor federation, said the
transaction is “seriously embarrassing” and should be stopped.  South African regulators, including the Financial Services
Board and the Securities Regulation Panel, say the transaction
is outside their jurisdiction.  ‘Against the Deal’  “If a significant number of minorities are against the
deal, then ArcelorMittal is going to have to do something,”
said  John Green , director of global business development at
 Investec Asset Management , from Johannesburg.  While Investec, another signatory to the UN’s code, is
still “engaging” the company to improve its understanding of
the situation,  ArcelorMittal South Africa  needs to maintain good
relations with investors in case it needs to raise funds in the
future, Green said.  Shares in the steelmaker rose 75 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
81.65 rand as of 1:30 p.m. in Johannesburg, reducing the decline
since the start of the year to 21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  