-- Asian Citrus to Increase Winter Orange Price on Shortage Caused by Drought
-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2010-10-12T15:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/asian-citrus-to-increase-winter-orange-price-on-shortage-caused-by-drought.html
Asian Citrus Holdings Ltd., China’s
biggest orange plantation owner, said it plans to seek a higher
price for its winter crop because a drought has curbed the
supply of the fruit, Finance Director  Eric Sung  said.  The company will seek a 8 percent price rise for its winter
crop, more than double the usual 2 percent to 3 percent
increase. A drought in China has curbed production of crops,
including sugar, corn and oranges. Asian Citrus has 3 percent of
the total orange market share in China, Sung said.  “The Chinese market is very fragmented and a lot of the
oranges are supplied by many smaller farmers, ” Sung said by
phone from Hong Kong today, “ We will be able to achieve a much
higher price because of the shortage of supply.”  Asian Citrus will produce its first crop from its third and
newest plantation in Fuchuan County of Guangxi in 2014, Sung
said. The company already runs two plantations located in
similar latitudes to that of Florida, U.S., famed for its
oranges.  Yesterday, Asian Citrus said it agreed to buy a 92.94
percent stake in BPG Food & Beverage Holdings Ltd., a maker of
tropical fruit-juice concentrates. Asian Citrus will start
selling orange juice concentrate from this subsidiary later next
year, Sung said.  “We expect more Chinese will consume orange juice
concentrate in years to come, switching over from fresh, and we
want to position ourselves for this,” Sung said.  Net income for the 12 months to June 30 rose to 585.5
million yuan ($88 million) from 440.1 million yuan a year ago,
the Hong Kong-based orange grower said in an e-mailed statement
today. Sales for the period grew 22 percent to 812.5 million
yuan.  The shares fell 1 pence, or 1.5 percent, to 68 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in London today. The stock has gained 36 percent
in value this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Lawrence  in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  