-- Italian Stocks Decline; Bulgari, Fiat, Eni, Popolare, Pirelli Re Active
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-12T15:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/assicurazioni-generali-fiat-intesa-may-be-active-italian-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index 
ended a five-day gain, falling 87.49, or 0.4 percent, to
20,750.22 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Autogrill SpA  (AGL IM) fell for the first day in three,
losing 2.1 percent to 9.03 euros. The world’s biggest manager of
airport and highway restaurants had its price estimate trimmed
to 9.5 euros from 10 euros at UBS AG.  Banco Popolare SC  (BP IM) dropped 2 percent to 4.29 euros,
a third consecutive decrease. Societe Generale SA cut its
recommendation on the lender to “sell” from “buy,” citing
“increasing execution risk.”  Bulgari SpA  (BUL IM), the world’s third-largest jeweler,
rose 2.7 percent to 7.17 euros, extending gains of 5 percent
yesterday. “The luxury-goods industry is performing well, above
all in emerging markets,” said  Paolo Vicentini , a fund manager
at Edmond de Rothschild Sgr. “This, coupled with the fact that
Bulgari has always been seen as a company that could be sold at
some point, is helping the shares.”  Eni SpA  (ENI IM), Italy’s biggest oil company, declined 2.5
percent to 15.89 euros. Crude dropped for a second day after
Saudi Arabia signaled that OPEC may leave production targets
unchanged and as the dollar strengthened, reducing the
investment appeal of commodities.  Fiat SpA  (F IM) surged 2.7 percent to 11.73 euros, a fourth
straight gain. Automobile stocks were the best performers in
Europe today. Alfredo Altavilla, head of Fiat’s powertrain
division, will replace Paolo Monferino as chief executive
officer of the Iveco truck unit that’s being spun off from
Italy’s largest manufacturer.  Intermonte Sim SpA lifted its price estimate to 13.5 euros
from 12.5 euros and reiterated an “outperform” rating, saying
in a note that “the spinoff remains the main catalyst on the
stock for the time being.” Fiat’s valuation “is benefiting
significantly from the strong performance at CNH Global NV.”  Fondiaria-Sai SpA  (FSA IM) lost 2.1 percent to 8.27 euros,
snapping a two-day increase. Intermonte Sim, which has a
“neutral” rating on Italy’s second-biggest insurer, said in a
note that “Fondiaria’s short-term operating trends will remain
weak, with a subdued medium term operating improvement.” The
brokerage said it’s “not betting on any speculative appeal.”  Premafin Finanziaria SpA  (PF IM), the holding company that
controls Fondiaria-Sai, dropped 3.7 percent to 1.01 euros, a
first loss in six days.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA  (ISP IM) advanced 1.2 percent to 2.48
euros, rising for a sixth day. Societe Generale upgraded Italy’s
second-biggest bank to “buy” from “hold,” saying in a note
today that “over the last five years, Italian bank management
teams have had a poor track record generating value creation
relative to the European banks sector, with only Intesa’s
management having created any value on a relative basis for
shareholders.”  Landi Renzo SpA  (LR IM) sank the most in more than two
months, losing 5.9 percent to 3.41 euros. BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research downgraded the maker of injection systems for
alternative fuels to “neutral” from “buy.”  Pirelli Real Estate SpA  (PRS IM) dropped 3.7 percent to
44.1 euro cents. Pirelli Re’s main shareholders signed an
investor agreement binding their stakes, according to a
statement distributed by the Italian exchange.  “As expected Fondiaria-Sai and Allianz SE will not
participate and we believe their shares will be sold in an
opportunistic way,” Equita Sim SpA said.  STMicroelectronics NV  (STM IM), Europe’s biggest chipmaker,
gained 1.7 percent to 5.54 euros, as technology shares were the
second-best performers today in Europe. Intel Corp. will report
third-quarter results today after the closing of U.S. markets.  UniCredit SpA  (UCG IM) declined for a second day, losing
1.2 percent to 1.85 euros. Societe Generale downgraded Italy’s
biggest bank to “sell” from “hold,” saying in a note that
“a rationalization of the UniCredit network is key for the
future of the bank and its ability to create value and
profitability going forward.”  Unipol Gruppo Finanziario SpA  (UNI IM) advanced 1.4 percent
to 55.6 euro cents. The shares, which yesterday rose above their
20-day and 50-day moving averages, “are filling the gap after
Italy’s fourth-biggest insurer didn’t take part in the increase
in equity markets over the last few weeks,” said  Davide Manenti , a fund manager at Nuovi Investimenti in Milan.  Equita Sim SpA reviewed its estimates on dividends for
common and preference shares for 2010-2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  