-- Australian Consumer Confidence Rebounded in October After Employment Surge
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-13T00:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/australian-consumer-confidence-rebounded-in-october-after-employment-surge.html
Australian  consumer confidence 
rebounded in October as the central bank extended a pause on
interest-rate increases and employment surged.  The sentiment index rose 3.3 percent to 117 this month,
after a 5 percent drop last month, according to a Westpac
Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200 consumers
conducted Oct. 4-10 and released today in Sydney.  Today’s report comes after employers last month added the
most workers since January, supporting central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens ’ view of an economy that may strengthen. A gauge
of whether it is a good or bad time to buy major households
items rose 9.9 percent, the biggest gain among five components
in the sentiment index, Westpac said.  “The decision by the Reserve Bank to keep rates on hold at
the October board meeting would have buoyed consumers,” said
 Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief economist. There is also “evidence
of improving employment conditions with a further 49,500 new
jobs being reported for September,” he said.  Evans expects the  Reserve Bank of Australia  to boost its
benchmark interest rate by a quarter-percentage point to 4.75
percent at its next meeting Nov. 2. The central bank
unexpectedly kept the rate unchanged for a fifth straight month
on Oct. 5, while saying higher borrowing costs will likely be
needed “at some point.”  Local Currency  The Australian dollar was little changed after the
confidence report was released, trading at 98.71 U.S. cents at
11:06 a.m. in Sydney from 98.66 just before the release.  A government report on Oct. 7 showed full-time employment
in the past two months had its biggest back-to-back increase
since 1988. The employment gains are helping strengthen the
Australian dollar, which last week reached the highest level
since it began trading freely in 1983.  “Households were notably keener on buying a major
household item, probably reflecting strong employment conditions
and the rising Australian dollar,” Evans said. That component
is 11.6 percent higher than a year ago and is “at the highest
level for more than five years, a period that covers the
consumer spending boom in 2007,” he said.  Economic growth in Australia is expected to pick up from
its current rate of about 3.25 percent to closer to 4 percent
“over the next couple of years,” central bank Deputy Governor
 Ric Battellino  said last week.  Gross domestic product expanded 3.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the biggest gain since 2008, a
report showed last month.  The RBA increased borrowing costs six times from October
2009 to May, raising the benchmark rate to 4.5 percent from a
half-century low of 3 percent.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  