-- Australian Carbon Capture Institute Gives $18 Million in Funds
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-12T03:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/australia-carbon-capture-institute-distributes-18-million-to-six-projects.html
Projects in Australia, the U.S.,
Romania and the Netherlands will receive about A$18 million ($18
million) in funding from  the Global Carbon Capture and Storage
Institute , the Canberra-based organization said today.  CarbonNet in Victoria state will get A$2.3 million and the
Callide Oxyfuel Project in Queensland is set to receive A$1.8
million, the Global CCS Institute said in a statement. The
Rotterdam CCS Network, the Romanian CCS Demonstration Project,
the Tenaska Trailblazer Energy Center and a Tenaska New
Technologies and Entergy Corp. project will get the rest.  The Australian government announced the formation of the
institute in 2008 and committed A$100 million a year in funding
to accelerate development of technologies aimed at capturing and
storing carbon emissions. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  promised
to restart efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions and tackle
climate change after replacing  Kevin Rudd  in June.  “Integrating capture technology into new large-scale coal-
fired power plants, or retrofitting existing commercial-scale
power plants, has not been done before,” the institute’s Chief
Executive Officer Nick Otter said in a statement. “These are
the kinds of learnings that are essential if CCS is to make a
difference to the world’s energy security challenges.”  In Australia, coal accounts for than 80 percent of
electricity production. Spending on new gas-fired power plants
may almost double to A$14.7 billion in the next six years if the
nation imposes a price on carbon, Fitch Ratings said today.  Chevron Corp.  and its partners in the Gorgon gas project
off northwest Australia have a A$2 billion plan to capture
carbon dioxide extracted during the liquefaction process and
inject it into a reservoir 2.5 kilometers (1.6 miles) beneath
Barrow Island. Chevron has said the technology will reduce
Gorgon’s greenhouse gas emissions by about 40 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 