-- Australia Is Committed to Rival Stock Exchanges, Shorten's Office Says
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-10-12T23:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/australia-is-committed-to-rival-stock-exchanges-shorten-s-office-says.html
The Australian government is
committed to allowing stock exchanges to compete with the
nation’s dominant operator  ASX Ltd. , a spokesman for Financial
Services Minister  Bill Shorten  said.  The Australian Securities and Investments Commission would
determine when any rival operations could begin, according to
the spokesman, who declined to be named in line with government
policy. Chi-X Global Inc., an electronic-trading-platform, has
won preliminary approval to become the first competitor to ASX.  Australia’s markets regulator last month said it expects to
publish a new timeframe for the entry of additional stock-
exchange operators after consulting Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government, which was newly elected in August. ASIC
would work quickly to facilitate competition if the government
affirmed its commitment to allowing challengers to operate,
Chairman  Tony D’Aloisio  told Bloomberg News at the time.  ASIC took over oversight of real-time trading on domestic
licensed markets from ASX on Aug. 1 as part of government
attempts to pave the way for competitors that might help
Australia attract more foreign investment.  “It’s a good thing any lingering doubts over introducing
competition appear to have been dismissed,”  Peter Fowler , Chi-X
Australia Pty.’s chief operating officer, said in an e-mail
today. “As for the question of timing, the spotlight now seems
to be on the regulator.”  Chi-X’s local unit said last month that it’s sticking to
its target to begin operating by the end of the first quarter of
2011.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  