-- Avon Stock Gains on Report L'Oreal May Make Offer
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2010-10-12T20:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/avon-products-gains-in-german-trading-on-report-that-l-oreal-may-make-bid.html
Avon Products Inc.  rose 4.2 percent
in New York trading after a report that  L’Oreal SA  may make a
takeover offer for the world’s largest door-to-door cosmetics
seller.  L’Oreal is considering a bid of $44 a share for Avon, the
U.K.’s Daily Mail reported. That’s 33 percent more than New
York-based Avon’s  close  yesterday. A bid at that price would be
worth about $19 billion, based on Avon’s shares outstanding as
of June.  The cosmetics retailer  is attracting interest from several
companies, including L’Oreal, the Daily Mail said. Avon, whose
sales topped $10 billion last year, gets more than 70 percent of
its revenue from its beauty business. About 40 percent comes
from Latin America, where consumers are more accustomed to
buying cosmetics, skin care and fragrances from door-to-door
vendors.  Avon has “momentum in terms of operational improvements
and sales heavily weighted toward developing markets,”  Rick Jones , who helps manage $1.5 billion at NCM Capital Management
Group, said today by telephone from Durham, North Carolina.
“From that standpoint, it makes some sense for some people to
be looking at it to acquire it.” His firm owns Avon  shares .  Avon climbed $1.38 to $34.54 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . L’Oreal fell 10 cents to 81.56 euros
in Paris.  L’Oreal, the world’s largest cosmetics maker, and rivals
including  Procter & Gamble Co.  are chasing growth in emerging
nations, where demand for beauty products has surged as people
earn more money. Regions such as Asia and Latin America should
represent 50 percent to 60 percent of L’Oreal’s business in 10
years, Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Paul Agon  said in May.  Avon’s Value  Avon could be worth about $40 a share if sold for the
average multiple of recent transactions, Jefferies & Co. analyst
 Douglas Lane  wrote in a report today. The company may fetch
closer to $50 if sold at a multiple similar to that of Alberto-
Culver Co., which agreed to a $3.7 billion takeover by Unilever.
Lane, based in Boston, recommends buying Avon shares.  “We would not be surprised if L’Oreal scouted the
acquisition trail,” UBS AG analysts  Eva Quiroga  and William
Houston wrote in a note today, citing the company’s low net debt
level and its stake in  Sanofi-Aventis SA.  However, L’Oreal has
no experience in direct selling and has struggled with the Body
Shop since acquiring the retail chain in 2006, they wrote.  Stephanie Carson-Parker , a spokeswoman for L’Oreal,
declined to comment, as did Jennifer Vargas, an Avon
spokeswoman.  Jung’s Strategy  Avon has said it’s examining whether to move out of
businesses such as home cleaning and appliances to focus on more
profitable businesses. The company, led by Chief Executive
Officer  Andrea Jung , agreed in July to buy jewelry company
Silpada Designs Inc. to expand its product line.  Mergers and acquisitions in the personal-care industry have
picked up lately. Unilever agreed to buy Alberto in September to
add Nexxus and VO5 hair products, while Reckitt Benckiser Group
Plc in July bought SSL International Plc, the maker of Durex
condoms.  Net debt could be less than 1 billion euros ($1.38 billion)
by the end of the year and zero at the end of 2011, L’Oreal
Chief Financial Officer  Christian Mulliez  said Aug. 26.
L’Oreal’s net  debt  totaled 1.67 billion euros as of June 30,
about 300 million euros less than at the end of 2009, the maker
of Garnier shampoo and Lancome lipstick said at the time.  L’Oreal has no plans to change its 9 percent stake in
Sanofi in the short term, though the investment isn’t strategic
or long term, Agon said in August. UBS values the holding at 5
billion euros currently.  Low Probability  An offer by Paris-based L’Oreal for Avon is “a low
probability event,” according to  Chas Manso , an  analyst  at
Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “My own personal view is
that L’Oreal isn’t interested in the direct-selling model,”
Manso said.  Still, buying Avon would help L’Oreal cut manufacturing and
marketing costs and extract lower prices from suppliers of
ingredients for cosmetics and perfumes, said Strategic Resource
Group’s  Burt Flickinger .  “It makes a tremendous amount of strategic sense for
L’Oreal,” Flickinger, managing director of the New York-based
packaged goods consulting firm, said by telephone today.
“Collectively, they have even greater growth opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at   cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  