-- Mayoral Control Alone Doesn't Fix Schools, Rutgers Institute Study Finds
-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-10-12T18:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/mayoral-control-alone-doesn-t-fix-weak-school-systems-rutgers-study-finds.html
Mayoral control, advocated by
politicians pushing to overhaul underperforming school systems,
fails to improve student achievement, according to a two-year
study.  The  research , conducted by the  Institute of Education Law
and Policy  at Rutgers University, looked at improvements in nine
education systems where there were changes in how the schools
were governed, led by Baltimore, Boston and New York City.
The study will provide guidance to New Jersey policy makers as
the state prepares to return schools in Paterson, Newark and
Jersey City to local control after as many as 21 years under
state operation, the authors said.  The findings, the subject of a seminar today at the
university’s Newark, New Jersey campus, raise questions about
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s plans to overhaul the
schools in the state’s largest city by putting Mayor  Cory Booker 
in charge, said Alan Sadovnik, professor of Education, Sociology
and Public Administration and Affairs at Rutgers and co-author
of the report in a telephone interview yesterday.  “Solving Newark’s problems will require more than mayoral
control alone,” Sadovnik said. “Governance is one part of
urban school improvement, which has to include effective school
and administrative strategies and a variety of economic,
community and health initiatives at the local level.”  Facebook Donation  Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg  said on Sept. 24 that
he will donate $100 million to Newark’s schools. Almost half of
all students in the district don’t graduate from high school.  Cleveland, Chicago, Detroit, Philadelphia, Washington and
Hartford, Connecticut, were the other school systems that were
part of the Rutgers study.  New school leadership helped improve efficiency and reduce
corruption in Chicago, Cleveland, Boston, Philadelphia and
Washington. In almost all the cities, mayoral control was
associated with increased funding by either the state or the
private sector, the study found.  Increased stability enabled school leaders and the
community to concentrate on improving student achievement, the
report said. In Cleveland, which had 13 superintendents in 15,
turnover ended once the new governance system was installed,
while frequent strikes by the unions stopped after mayoral
control in Chicago.  Successful Bargaining  Mayoral leadership in New York and Chicago resulted in
successful bargaining agreements with the teachers’ union to
lengthen classroom hours and allow the creation of charter
schools, the report also said.  At the same time, community input has diminished under the
new models for running schools, the report noted. New York City
parents, seeking a stronger voice in school policy, lobbied for
changes in the mayoral control law, while parents in Chicago and
Boston have complained they don’t have enough say in school
closings, the report said.  “That’s a real negative,” Sadovnik said. “Most of the
research indicates that parental involvement is a key ingredient
in increasing student achievement.”  Christie has said he will give Booker a larger role in
overseeing the district’s schools and its 39,000 students, and
the mayor will also get a say in picking a new superintendent.
Christie’s plan raises questions regarding the legality of the
move without legislative action, the report said.  Mayoral involvement, or control, should be considered as
part of an overall systematic approach to urban district
improvement, the study said.  “The data certainly do not indicate that forms of
governance with mayoral involvement have a negative effect on
student achievement, but rather that governance may not be the
most important factor; or, at the least, may be one of many
factors in raising student achievement,” it said.  The mayor of New York, Michael Bloomberg, is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esme E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 