-- Baht Falls on Speculation Thai Government to Unveil Bond-Tax Plan Today
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-10-12T08:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/baht-falls-on-speculation-thai-government-to-unveil-bond-tax-plan-today.html
Thailand’s baht reversed earlier
losses after the government said it will impose a tax on
domestic bonds purchased by overseas investors in its latest
effort to stem gains in the currency.  A 15 percent tax exemption on returns from government bonds
enjoyed by non-resident investors will be removed from tomorrow,
Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij said after a Cabinet meeting
today. The move will help slow capital inflows, he said. The
baht has advanced 10.9 percent so far in 2010 as global funds
bought $1.6 billion more Thai stocks than they sold.  “The baht rebounded because the foreign-exchange market
already expected that this measure would come out since a few
days ago and has already priced it in,” said  Panida Viraphanich ,
head of trading at TMB Bank Pcl in Bangkok. “Exporters have
also been selling the dollar near its highs, capping the
dollar’s top side.”  The baht rose 0.1 percent to 30.01 per dollar as of 3:25
p.m. in Bangkok, reversing an earlier loss of as much as 0.3
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
has gained 1.1 percent this month and touched a 13-year high of
29.81 on Oct. 8.  Government bonds rose, ending a two-day slide. The yield on
the 3.625 percent debt due May 2015 fell eight basis points to
2.629 percent. The  rate  yesterday advanced the most in five
months. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Overseas investors purchased a net $1.1 billion of Thai
debt this month after pumping a net $4.9 billion into the
securities in the third quarter,  Thai Bond Market Association 
data show. The average daily trading of foreign investors in the
secondary market doubled to 5 billion baht ($167 million) in the
first nine months, from 2.5 billion baht last year, the
association’s President, Niwat Kanjanaphoomin, said yesterday.  Rule Won’t Spur Outflows  The removal of the tax exemption won’t cause an outflow of
funds because the rule doesn’t apply to investors who bought
bonds earlier, Korn said today. The Cabinet also approved
measures to help boost outflows by accelerating budget
disbursements in foreign currencies, Korn said. In the fourth
quarter, the government plans to spend 48.99 billion baht in
foreign currencies, he said.  Other measures approved today to support small- and medium-
sized exporters struggling with the rising baht include state
banks providing help with forward contracts and offering dollar
loans, according to the statement issued by the finance ministry.  The one-year onshore interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, climbed three basis points
to 1.525 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  