-- Baht May Gain 3.7% by Year-End as Investment Flows Rise, Kasikornbank Says
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-10-12T04:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/baht-may-gain-3-7-by-year-end-as-investment-flows-rise-kasikornbank-says.html
Thailand’s baht will advance 3.7
percent to 29 per dollar by year-end as developed nations pump
more funds into their economies to spur growth, boosting inflows
into higher-yielding assets, according to Kasikornbank Pcl.  The currency will strengthen to 28 by the end of 2011,
 Kobsidthi Silpachai , head of capital market research at the bank,
wrote in a report issued yesterday. Kasikornbank, Thailand’s
third-biggest lender by assets, predicted Sept. 10 that the baht
would appreciate to 30.20 by Dec. 31.  “As long as the Federal Reserve and some other major
economies are printing money, more money is coming to Asia,
including Thailand and other emerging markets,” Kobsidthi said
in an interview yesterday. “The growth potential is much better
in those nations than the developed countries.”  The baht has climbed 10.8 percent against the dollar this
year, the best performance in Asia excluding the yen. The
currency was little changed at 30.06 as of 11:40 a.m. in Bangkok,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 29.81 on Oct.
8, the strongest level since 1997 when the baht’s devaluation
triggered the Asian financial crisis.  Overseas investors are pumping money into Thai equities and
bonds to benefit from the fastest economic growth in 15 years.
Global funds bought $1.6 billion more stocks than they sold this
year and purchased a net $7.6 billion of debt, according to data
from the stock exchange and the  Thai Bond Market Association .  Yuan Speculation  The cabinet will review a plan today to impose a 15 percent
tax on bond investments by foreigners, Finance Minister Korn
Chatikavanij told reporters this morning in Bangkok. The finance
ministry and the central bank unveiled measures last month to
encourage capital outflows and ease baht appreciation, including
a plan to scrap a ceiling on direct investment and lending by
companies to overseas affiliates.  Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy had its best two
consecutive quarters since 1995 in the first half. The finance
ministry on Sept. 27 raised its 2010 growth forecast to as much
as 7.8 percent from a June estimate of a maximum of 6 percent.  Speculation that China will let its currency strengthen at
a faster pace may also push the baht higher, Kobsidthi wrote.  The yuan yesterday touched 6.6610, the strongest level
since the central bank unified official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993. The U.S. has stepped up criticism that
an artificially weak yuan gives China, the No. 1 buyer of Thai
goods, an unfair trade advantage.  “When there are larger and larger economic linkages it
means if China’s currency appreciates, there’s room for the baht
to strengthen without losing too much competitiveness,”
Kobsidthi said. “Investors use the baht to indirectly speculate
on Chinese yuan appreciation because they look for countries
which have large trade linkages with China; Thailand is one of
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  