-- Bank of England Mustn't Tighten Policy Too Soon, Miles Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-12T10:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/bank-of-england-mustn-t-put-u-k-s-immature-recovery-at-risk-miles-says.html
Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said officials must not withdraw stimulus too soon,
signaling that they may have to ignore an inflation rate that
still exceeds the government’s 3 percent limit.  The bank faces the “risk of tightening monetary policy too
soon,” Miles said in a  speech  in Dublin today. This risk “is
one that I would consider small if it were clear that the
economy was on a typical upswing of the sort of cycle we used to
think normal. But I do not see many of the signs that are usual
in a normal upswing.”  Miles spoke as reports today highlighted the dilemma facing
the bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, which is split
on whether to pay more attention to inflation or the threat of a
new recession.  Consumer prices  rose 3.1 percent last month from
a year earlier, exceeding the limit for a seventh month, while
separate data showed exports dropped in August.  Adam Posen  says more stimulus is needed to boost economic
growth, while  Andrew Sentance  has advocated higher rates. While
Miles said quantitative easing remains a “powerful tool” that
“we may come to use,” he didn’t say how he voted this month.
Minutes of that meeting are due on Oct. 20.  The pound traded at $1.5842 at 11:42 a.m. in London.  “It’s not obvious what the next direction for monetary
policy is,” Miles said in answer to questions. “We do have a
policy tool, quantitative easing, which I think remains a
potentially powerful tool and one which we might come to use.”  Stormy Seas  The outlook may force the Bank of England to keep rates at
a record low for the next two years, said  Philip Green , the
billionaire owner of Arcadia Group Ltd.  “The worst hopefully is behind,” the retail magnate said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television late yesterday in
London. “Do I think there’s still some stormy seas? Yes,” he
said, predicting that U.K. interest rates “don’t go far for the
next 18 months, two years.”  Miles said he’s “not blase” about the fact that another
increase in value-added tax will keep inflation above the
central bank’s 2 percent goal next year.  “U.K. inflation now sits uncomfortably above the target,”
Miles said. “But I believe that this tells us rather little
about the cyclical position of the economy or where inflation
will be in the  future .”  Miles conceded there’s a risk that the Bank of England will
leave policy too loose for too long and that hindsight will
prove its stance to be the wrong one.  ‘Sensible’ Approach  “If growth and inflation look stronger than I now think is
the most likely outcome it will be the ‘MPC completely failed to
see what was obvious to nearly everyone -- that inflation was
out of control,” said Miles. “But the only sensible thing to
do is to look at all the evidence we have today, and balance the
risks.”  The U.K. economy “slowed considerably” in the third
quarter, adding to the case for the Bank of England to expand
stimulus to prevent a renewed recession, the British Chambers of
Commerce said today. The BCC last week called on the Bank of
England to increase its emergency  bond-purchase plan  by 50
billion pounds ($79 billion) by the end of the year, backing
Posen’s call to expand stimulus.  The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said today
that a gauge of house prices fell to a 16-month low in September
and the British Retail Consortium said annual store-sales growth
dropped in September by one half to 0.5 percent.  Miles spent much of his speech arguing that monetary policy
can’t be expected to fight asset bubbles and that forcing banks
to hold higher capital ratios is a better approach than relying
solely on interest rates.  “Having higher bank capital will make the job of monetary
policy (which has now to deal with the after-effects of massive
instability in financial markets) much easier,” he said.
“Using limits on gearing to help maintain financial stability
and monetary policy to help maintain price stability is an
efficient allocation of instruments to goals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  