-- BankAtlantic Officials Hid Florida Loan Losses, Shareholders' Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2010-10-13T11:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/bankatlantic-officials-hid-florida-loan-losses-shareholders-lawyer-says.html
BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc.  officials
ignored lending guidelines in approving land-development loans
and then misled investors about the strength of those loans, a
lawyer for shareholders said at the start of a trial of their
securities-fraud lawsuit.  The bank’s executives hid losses on the loans to inflate
the bank’s stock price, misleading investors in conference calls
and in press releases, attorney  Mark Arisohn  told jurors
yesterday in federal court in Miami.  “The picture they painted was that the bank’s lending
business was less risky than it really was,” Arisohn said in
his opening statement. BankAtlantic investors “paid too much
because they didn’t know the truth.”  BankAtlantic, which last reported a profit in the second
quarter of 2007, traded at more than $44 in January 2005. The
 shares  closed yesterday at 95 cents in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, valuing the company at $58 million.  BankAtlantic, based in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, contends
that it properly disclosed problems with the loans. Company
officials “gave plenty of warning” that Florida real-estate
loans had grown risky by 2007,  Eugene Stearns , the bank’s
attorney, said in his opening statement. The investors sued that
year.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Levan  told investors the
bank’s loan portfolio was solid, while at the same time worrying
in an internal e-mail about “a parade of land loans coming in
for extensions,” Arisohn told jurors.  ‘Golden Rule’  “This is a case about defendants who broke the golden rule
that governs relations between public companies and
stockholders,” Arisohn said. “That golden rule is to tell the
truth.”  Stearns countered that bank officials publicly expressed
concern over the real-estate loan portfolio.  “All these internal conversations were followed almost
immediately by public statements saying the same thing,”
Stearns told the jury. They repeatedly told investors the
Florida real-estate market was “ugly and declining,” he said.  The trial on securities-fraud claims is unusual, said  Paul Regan , a law professor at Widener University in Wilmington,
Delaware.  “Most of these cases settle long before they get to a
jury,” Regan said in a telephone interview.  The case is In re BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc. Securities
Litigation, 07-cv-61542, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Susannah Nesmith  at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 