-- U.K. Newspapers Join BBC in Opposition to Murdoch BSkyB Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-10-12T10:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/bbc-joins-u-k-newspapers-to-lobby-against-murdoch-bid-for-rest-of-bskyb.html
U.K. newspapers and the British
Broadcasting Corp. asked the government to block  Rupert Murdoch -
controlled News Corp.’s bid to take over the rest of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc , saying it harms the public interest.  In a joint letter, the director general of the BBC and the
owners of newspapers including the Daily Telegraph and the
Guardian demanded that Business Secretary  Vince Cable  challenge
the deal. The companies wrote that the takeover would expand
News Corp.’s control of U.K. media outlets. BBC, phone operator
BT Group Plc and Channel Four Television Corp. confirmed
sending the letter.  “We believe that the proposed takeover could have serious
and far-reaching consequences for media plurality,” according
to the letter posted on the Financial Times’ Alphaville  website .  Murdoch’s  News Corp. in June offered 7.8 billion pounds
($12.4 billion) in its initial bid for the 61 percent it doesn’t
already own of BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-television operator.
BSkyB rejected the offer as too little, and the final price
of the deal won’t be negotiated until after regulatory approval
is received. News Corp. owns the Times, Sunday Times and the Sun
newspapers in the U.K.  Pearson Plc’s  Financial Times said in an editorial last
month that Cable should examine the deal. The combination of
News Corp. with BSkyB would create a “formidable beast,” which
“might dominate the media scene, lock out challengers and
stifle diversity of debate,” it said.  BBC Director-General  Mark Thompson  said in an interview on
the “ Charlie Rose ” program that the deal raises “questions
that should be looked at.”  ‘Potential Ownership’  “Given the scale of the potential ownership in U.K.
media, there’s a strong case for looking at it systemically and
deciding whether or not anything needs to be done to address the
issue,” he said in the interview broadcast on Bloomberg TV.  Trinity Mirror Group Plc , the Telegraph Media Group, the
Guardian Media Group, and BT, the U.K.’s biggest phone company,
signed the letter. BT has expanded into TV services and offers
BSkyB’s Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 at a discount.  The business department has received the letter, according
to a spokeswoman, who declined to be identified in line with
government policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 