-- Berlusconi Long Yields Penalized Before 30-Year Debt Auction: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2010-10-13T10:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/berlusconi-long-yields-penalized-before-30-year-debt-auction-euro-credit.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
longest-term bonds yield almost as much as Spain’s even though
Italy’s  deficit  is less than half, a sign Europe’s debt crisis
has created relative bargains for fixed-income investors.  Italy, which plans to sell as much as 2 billion euros ($2.8
billion) of 30-year securities tomorrow, is being penalized with
interest rates of 4.7 percent for the bonds, just below Spain’s
4.9 percent. Italy’s 30-year debt yields 1.8 percentage points
more than comparable German bunds.  Italian bonds rose more than 1 percent in the past month as
investors bet the country will cut its deficit faster than other
so-called peripheral nations that also suffered a surge in
borrowing costs following Greece’s near default in May. Italy’s
economy is growing, helping reduce a budget gap that stands at
5.3 percent of gross domestic product, or less than half that of
Spain, Ireland and Greece.  “I don’t see what the risk is in Italy,” said  Steve Mansell , director of interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Inc. in
London. “If investors are still minded to search for yield,
then Italy is probably a prime choice.”  Italy is auctioning 30-year bonds following gains in short-
term debt after the Federal Reserve signaled it may take
emergency steps to shore up the U.S. economy. The advance
steepened the yield curve, or difference of short- and long-term
bond yields. The spread between 10- and 30-year Italian bonds
rose to 98 basis points from 82 basis points at the start of
last month. The difference between two- and 10-year bonds rose
14 basis points to 304 basis points in the same period.  ‘Ultra-Long’  “We see Italian 30-year debt as representing the best
value among the ultra-long bonds being sold this week,” said
 Padhraic Garvey , head of developed market strategy at ING Groep
NV in Amsterdam, referring to auctions by the Netherlands, Japan
and the U.S. “Italian bond spreads were dragged higher because
it’s seen as part of the peripheral market, and yet their
fundamentals are stronger than Spain, Ireland or Portugal.”  The Netherlands yesterday sold 1.8 billion euros of bonds
due 2042. The securities were priced to yield 2.913 percent, or
almost 200 basis points less than similar-maturity Italian debt.
Japan will sell 600 billion yen ($7.3 billion) of 30-year bonds
tomorrow, followed by the Italian sale and the auction of $13
billion of U.S. Treasury bonds due 2040.  Given the lingering concerns about European debt and
deficit levels, the relative value of 30-year Italian bonds to
other debt on offer may not last.  IMF Forecast  “Our view is it’s probably a bit too early to say things
are okay in the peripheral markets and Italian bonds will
outperform across the board from here,” said  Peter Schaffrik ,
head of European interest rate strategy at Royal Bank of Canada
Europe Ltd. in London.  The International Monetary Fund raised its forecast this
month for Italy’s 2010 economic growth to 1 percent from 0.9
percent, while predicting a 0.3 percent contraction for Spain.  Italian unemployment fell for a third month in September to
8.2 percent, compared with 13.7 percent in Ireland, 10.6 percent
in Portugal and 20.1 percent in Spain, the highest in the euro
region.  Italy’s debt was the largest in the euro region at 115.9
percent of GDP last year. It’s forecast to rise less than 3
percentage points this year. Greece’s debt load will jump to 130
percent from 115 percent to overtake Italy in 2010.  Demand for Italian bonds may also be damped in the near
term after European Central Bank Government Governing Council
member  Axel Weber  said the ECB should stop its bond-purchase
program, threatening to remove a lifeline for European
governments and banks trying to shore up their finances.  ECB ‘Backstop’  “Without the ECB’s bond buying acting as a backstop on
yield spreads, any strong selling activity could push spreads
back out to danger levels, discouraging further buying from real
money investors,” said Peter Chatwell, a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Banking in
London. “That’s an event risk for peripheral countries.”  Spain’s deficit will boost its debt by almost 10 percentage
points to 62.8 percent in 2010. Portugal has forecast its debt
will climb by more than 7 percentage points to 83.5 percent.  Italy’s inflation rate of 1.8 percent is less the European
Central Bank’s 2 percent target for the euro region, easing
concern that rising prices will erode the value of the country’s
long-term bonds. The Italian 30-year breakeven rate, a gauge of
inflation expectations, was 212 basis points, down from a high
of 279 basis points on May 19. The rate is derived from a spread
between nominal and index-linked bonds of the same maturity.  ‘Shift in Favor’  Italian bonds with maturities of more than 10 years gained
1.2 percent in the past month, better than similar debt from
AAA-rated issuers such as the U.S. and Netherlands.  “We’ve seen a bit of a shift in favor to the periphery
over the last few sessions,” said  Sean Maloney , fixed-income
strategist at Nomura International Plc in London. “We might see
some decent interest in Italy on the yield basis.”  Italian 30-year bonds are the cheapest among similar
maturity debt on sale this week on a so-called asset-swap basis,
ING’s Garvey said. If investors swap the fixed rate offered by
the bonds into a floating rate, the security yields 190 basis
points over libor, compared with 18.5 basis points for its Dutch
counterpart and 7.2 basis points for Japanese bonds.  “Our in-house model suggests 30-year Italian bonds are
offering around 100 basis points more than it should,” Garvey
said. “The bond is undervalued.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  