-- Blackrock, GoldenTree Among Investors Said to Plan Cash Injection for KCA
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-10-12T10:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/blackrock-among-investors-said-to-plan-cash-injection-for-kca.html
Investors including BlackRock Inc.,
the world’s largest asset-management firm, and GoldenTree Asset
Management LLP plan to inject at least $200 million into KCA
Deutag Drilling Group Ltd. as part of a restructuring of the
oil-services drilling company’s debt.  KCA’s junior lenders, which also include TCW Group Inc. and
Western Asset Management Co., hired Houlihan Lokey as their
adviser for the debt restructuring while Ropes & Gray LLP is the
legal adviser, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  The investment will come in the form of second-lien loans
to pay down the Aberdeen-based company’s senior debt, said the
people. BlackRock and co-investors may also provide working
capital facilities, the people said.  Spokesmen at New York-based BlackRock, GoldenTree, Los
Angeles-based TCW, and Western Asset Management, the biggest
unit of Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., either declined to
comment or couldn’t be reached for comment outside of business
hours in the U.S.  KCA started talks with lenders to renegotiate debt Aug. 12
after canceling a bond sale that would have repaid junior loans.
Senior lenders are represented by Bank of Ireland Plc,
Harbourmaster Capital Management Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc, Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, people
familiar with the matter said Aug. 25.  Senior lenders agreed to waive terms that restrict leverage
ratios for three months. The company expects to generate $270
million of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization in 2010 and $220 million in 2011, down from $310
million last year, two people familiar with the matter said on
Sept. 21.  Standard & Poor’s cut KCA’s rating to CCC, eight levels
below investment grade, Aug. 10 after it failed to raise bonds.
Formerly known as Abbot Group Plc, KCA was bought in 2008
by Greenwich, Connecticut-based First Reserve Corp., the energy
industry’s biggest private-equity investor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  