-- Bolivia to Start Producing Lithium in October for Export, Minister Says
-- B y   S a r a   S h a h r i a r i
-- 2010-10-12T19:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/bolivia-to-start-producing-lithium-in-october-for-export-minister-says.html
Bolivia plans to start production of
lithium carbonate and potassium chloride for export this month
at its pilot plant, Mining Minister  Jose Pimentel  said.  Government workers will start pumping lithium-bearing
liquid, known as brine, into pools at the plant in western
Bolivia this month, the minister said. It will take three to
four months to separate the metal from the brine, he said.  “We think that in January or February we will have
product,” Pimentel said yesterday in an interview in La Paz.  The plant is the first step in the South American country’s
bid to industrialize the world’s largest known reserve of
lithium. Bolivia is home to about 5.4 million metric tons of
lithium, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey . That’s enough
of the lightest metal to make batteries for more than
4.8 billion electric cars.  Lithium is used to make batteries for portable electronics
such as cellular telephones and laptop computers, and will help
power electricity-powered cars.  Monthly plant production will be about 40 metric tons of
lithium carbonate and 1,000 tons of potassium chloride, he said.
Bolivia will export 12,000 tons of potassium chloride and around
500 tons of lithium carbonate in 2011 to the “best market,”
Pimentel said.  Bolivia is looking for strategic alliances to further
develop lithium projects, the minister said in an interview.  In 2009 Chile was the world’s leading lithium chemical
producer and the United States was the leading importer of
lithium minerals and compounds, according to a  report  by the
U.S. Geological Survey.  With assistance by Matthew Craze in Santiago. --Editor: Robin
Saponar, Dale Crofts  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sara Shahriari  in La Paz at 
Or  sshahriari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  