-- Argentina's Boudou Says His Nazi Gas Chamber Metaphor Was `Inappropriate'
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-12T17:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/boudou-to-meet-argentine-jewish-leaders-over-remark-about-nazis-reporters.html
Argentine Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said his statement comparing two local journalists to
Nazi gas chamber workers was an “inappropriate metaphor.”  “I made an inappropriate metaphor in a context of a
dialogue with the reporters,” Boudou said during an interview
on Buenos Aires-based C5N television channel today after meeting
with Aldo Donzis, head of the Argentine Delegation of Jewish
Associations, at the group’s building in Buenos Aires.  Donzis met with Boudou over comments the minister made to
reporters from Clarin and  La Nacion  on Oct. 8 in Washington.  “You are like those who cleaned up the gas chambers under
the Nazis,” Boudou said, according to both newspapers. “If you
don’t want to be accomplices, you should quit and not work any
longer in those companies,” Clarin quoted him as saying.  Boudou made the comments after reporters’ questioned him
about an  International Monetary Fund  request for Argentina to
let it carry out a so-called Article IV consultation, which is
an annual review of every member country’s economic policies and
data. The government has refused to let the IMF conduct the
audit of South America’s second-biggest economy since 2006. The
newspapers said that the IMF may sanction Argentina for
resisting the monitoring.  Today, Boudou said that the Argentine newspapers had been
wrong in saying that the refusal to allow the IMF’s review would
result in sanctions for the country.  Criticism of Newspapers  “Newspapers Clarin and La Nacion spent five days saying in
their front pages that Argentina would be sanctioned, and that
didn’t happen,” Boudou said in the interview with C5N
television channel. “They give an anti-Argentine treatment to
all the subjects and say lies that then never happen.”  The Buenos Aires-based Jewish News Agency cited Donzis as
saying before the meeting that Boudou’s remark “profoundly
offended the memory of the victims and survivors of the
Holocaust, and trivializes the Holocaust.”  Boudou’s spokesman didn’t return telephone messages seeking
comment.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s government has
accused Clarin and La Nacion of bias in their reporting, and has
also asked courts to review the purchase of newsprint producer
Papel Prensa SA by the newspapers’ owners during the country’s
military dictatorship in 1976.  Last year, Fernandez sponsored the introduction of a law
that requires media companies including  Grupo Clarin SA , the
owner of Clarin, to sell some assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  