-- BP, Investors Get First Deadline in Spill Share Suits
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-12T20:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/bp-investors-get-first-deadline-in-spill-share-suits-update1-.html
Lawyers for BP Plc and investors
suing over billions of dollars in market losses tied to the Gulf
of Mexico oil spill must submit lawsuit leadership proposals by
Oct. 27, a judge overseeing the suits said.  “We should start with ideas about how to select the lead
plaintiff and class counsel,” said U.S. District Judge  Keith P. Ellison  today, at the first hearing over investor suits combined
in his court.  Lawsuits by  investors  in U.S. shares of BP allege the
company misrepresented the risks of its offshore drilling
programs, artificially inflating the value of its  American
depositary receipts . The suits, brought by shareholders against
BP for their own losses or derivatively on behalf of the
company, claim BP’s directors and senior managers are
responsible for as much as $50 billion in lost stock value after
the spill.  “BP’s procedures for minimizing its financial losses from
drilling rig problems were no more than fantasies,”  Stanley M. Chesley , an attorney for one of the investor cases consolidated
in Houston federal court, said in a court filing. “BP was
simply not the enterprise that its public communications
pictured.”  The  investor lawsuits  were combined before Ellison in
August in a multidistrict litigation, or MDL, for evidence-
gathering and pretrial decisions.  BP is facing more than 400 lawsuits over the largest
offshore oil spill in U.S. history, set off by the April 20
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig.  Fishermen  Claims by fisherman, restaurants, real estate interests,
governments and others for economic loss have been combined with
personal injury and wrongful-death suits for pretrial treatment
in a separate multidistrict litigation before U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans.  The Judicial  Panel  on Multidistrict Litigation, which sent
the shareholder cases to Ellison, is still considering whether
to consolidate a third set of investor suits in his court.
Lawyers for those investors, BP employees in the company’s
retirement savings plan, are seeking consolidation in federal
court in Chicago.  BP’s shares initially lost more than half their value
before rebounding. BP’s American depository shares, each valued
at six ordinary shares, were trading at $60.48 on April 20, the
day the well blew out, and fell as low as $26.75 June 28. The
 shares  rose 2 cents to $41.26 today in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Company Losses  The investors claim losses to the company from the spill
might exceed $100 billion, when shareholders’ losses are
combined with what BP must pay to settle other types of claims.
Investors suing on behalf of the company also seek changes to
BP’s  management  and safety policies in addition to financial
compensation.  BP took a $32.2 billion charge against earnings in July to
cover potential pollution fines, cleanup costs, and the creation
of a $20 billion fund for spill-related economic injuries. This
month, BP said it had paid more than $11.2 billion in cleanup
and compensation costs so far.  BP’s lawyer, Daryl Libow of Sullivan & Cromwell, told
Ellison the company has been discussing case management and
discovery issues with lawyers in the case already. He said BP
envisions dealing with one lead plaintiff for the securities
fraud claims and another for the derivative claims.  Three Tracks  “Then if the ERISA cases are sent here by the judicial
panel, we will end up with three separate tracks’’ within the
investor MDL, Libow said. He suggested the judge select lead
plaintiffs and their lawyers before setting any discovery  or
trial schedules. ERISA refers to the  Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974.   Investors suing derivatively have asked Ellison to name as
co-lead counsel over their portion of the MDL two firms that
specialize in class actions and securities fraud litigation.  Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossman  LLP, of New York, has
represented some of North America’s largest public pension funds
in securities litigation and has won five of the 10 largest
securities recoveries in U.S. history, according to the
application filed with the court.  Kahn, Swick & Foti LLC, of Madisonville, Louisiana,
specializes in class actions concerning securities and consumer
fraud, according to its application. Partner Charles Foti was
Louisiana’s Attorney General from 2004 to 2008, and he was
criminal sheriff of Orleans Parish, where New Orleans is
located, for 30 years before that.  Investors alleging securities fraud and suing for their own
losses haven’t yet filed petitions asking Ellison to name lead
plaintiffs and lawyers for their portion of the MDL.  Lawyers
for the state employee pension funds of New York and Ohio asked
Ellison for lead status during today’s hearing, as did several
Houston attorneys.  Ellison told lawyers he would sign those lead counsel
appointments today for the derivative cases, as they were not
contested.  The case is In Re: BP Plc Securities Litigation, MDL 2185,
U.S. District Courts, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 