-- Brazil Economy May Grow 7.5% in 2010 Without Stoking Prices, Mantega Says
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-12T19:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/brazil-economy-may-grow-7-5-in-2010-without-stoking-prices-mantega-says.html
Brazil’s economy may expand 7.5
percent this year, up from a previous forecast of 7 percent, as
domestic demand ensures  non-inflationary  growth in coming years,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  Mantega, who spoke to investors today in New York, said
Brazil is experiencing a sustainable expansion and conditions
are in place for 5.5 percent to 6 percent growth in the next
four years regardless of how the U.S. economy performs. Mantega
said he expects inflation of 5 percent to 5.2 percent this year.  “Brazil is enjoying high quality, sustainable growth,
because it doesn’t generate macroeconomic imbalances,” Mantega
said. “Investment today is growing almost three times faster
than the economy and we’re increasing productivity.”  Latin America’s biggest economy expanded at the fastest
pace in more than two decades in the first half of the year,
leading central bank policy makers to increase the benchmark
 interest rate  to 10.75 percent from a record 8.75 percent low in
March to avoid “overheating”.  To be sure, traders expect the central bank to raise the
Selic again next year to keep inflation in check, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures contracts.  The central bank will raise the overnight rate to 11.75
percent next year, according to a central bank survey of about
100 economists published yesterday.  Currency  Brazil “doesn’t intend to allow” an excessive gain of the
real and may “think of other steps” to stem investment inflows
as a strong real may hurt Brazilian industry, Mantega said.  Brazil last week doubled to 4 percent a tax it charges on
some foreign inflows. The real has gained 4.5 percent this year
to close at 1.6699 per dollar yesterday. Markets are closed in
Brazil today due to a holiday.  “We cannot allow abuses in foreign exchange markets,
otherwise it will damage Brazilian industry,” Mantega said.
“As developed countries take longer to recover, some are
engaged in quantitative easing, pouring resources into emerging
markets.”  Central bankers and finance ministers met in Washington
last week to discuss what Mantega dubbed a “currency war,”
caused by currency market interventions undertaken by emerging
market governments to cope with “massive inflows” from
developed nations. He said Brazil favors a “free-floating”
exchange rate.  ‘Do Not Believe’  Brazil will meet its fiscal targets this year, Mantega
said. The country targets savings of 3.3 percent of gross
domestic product to pay interest on its debt, a so-called
primary surplus.  “Do not believe when someone tells you that Brazil has a
fiscal problem because figures speak louder,” he said.  One of the biggest challenges for Brazil’s government will
be to “control spending” to ensure that government
expenditures don’t rise faster than investment, Mantega said.  Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s former
Cabinet chief and handpicked candidate, Dilma Rousseff , has a
seven percentage-point lead over rival  Jose Serra  ahead of the
Oct. 31 runoff, a Datafolha poll showed Oct. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  