-- Government Should End University Fees Cap, Not Tax Graduates, Browne Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-12T15:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/browne-proposes-lifting-cap-on-u-k-university-tuition-fees.html
John Browne , the former chief
executive officer of BP Plc asked to review U.K. university
funding, rejected the option of a graduate tax and proposed
removing the current cap on tuition fees.  His  report , which the ruling Conservative-Liberal Democrat
coalition endorsed, proposed students should pay the fees from
government-backed loans to be repaid at a rate of 9 percent of
any income above 21,000 pounds ($33,300) a year. Interest rates,
currently subsidized, would be pegged to the cost of government
borrowing with a rebate for low earners. Any balance would be
written off after 30 years.  The proposals published in London today were welcomed by
universities, which expect to see the amount of money they get
from the government fall as the coalition seeks to eliminate the
record  budget deficit . They present a problem for Liberal
Democrat Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , who fought the May 6
election calling for the abolition of tuition fees and may
struggle to stop his lawmakers voting against the plan.  “Under our proposals, the bottom 20 percent of earners
will pay less than today and only the top 40 percent will pay
back close to the full amount,” Browne said in a statement
setting out why he preferred his proposals to a graduate tax, as
proposed by some. “The money will follow the student who will
follow the quality.”  Treasury Gains  Under the current system, fees are capped at 3,290 pounds a
year, paid for from interest-free loans repaid when graduates
earn more than 15,000 pounds.  The independent  Institute for Fiscal Studies  disputed
Browne’s figures, saying that under the proposals the lowest-
earning 30 percent of graduates would pay less than at present,
while only the highest-earning 30 percent would repay the full
loan. According to the London-based IFS, the biggest gainer from
the plan would be the Treasury, which would be able to reduce
its funding to universities by 6,000 pounds per degree issued.  Browne said universities that charge more than 6,000 pounds
a year should pay a levy to help support the poorest students,
and those charging more than 7,000 pounds should have to
demonstrate that this was justified to government.  “Different courses in different places need different
amounts of money to remain competitive,” Browne told BBC
television.  ‘Make or Break’  The  Russell Group , which represents 20 leading British
universities including Oxford, Cambridge and Edinburgh, welcomed
the proposals. “These recommendations could make or break our
world-class universities,” Director-General  Wendy Piatt  said.
“That’s because, bluntly, our leading institutions will not be
able to compete with generously funded universities in other
countries if they are not able to secure extra funding.”  The National Union of Students, which had campaigned for a
graduate tax, attacked the report. “Browne’s review would hand
universities a blank check and force the next generation to pick
up the tab for devastating cuts to higher education,”  Aaron Porter , its president, said on the  NUS website . “The only thing
students and their families would stand to gain from higher fees
would be higher debts.”  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat whose
department oversees universities, said the government “endorses
the main thrust” of the report.  “As a strategic direction, the government believes the
report is on the right lines,” Cable told Parliament. Asked by
Labour lawmakers about his party’s commitment to abolish fees in
the campaign for the May 6 elections, he replied, “In an ideal
world that’s what we would do. We’re not in an ideal world. We
have inherited a giant financial mess.”  ‘Fails Fairness Tests’  On Oct. 9, Cable e-mailed members of the Liberal Democrats,
telling them that while a graduate tax was “superficially
attractive,” it “fails both the tests of fairness and deficit
reduction.”  The opposition Labour Party, which introduced tuition fees
under  Tony Blair , has since moved away from the idea with its
newly elected leader,  Ed Miliband , backing a graduate tax under
which higher earners pay more. Business spokesman  John Denham 
attacked Browne’s report in Parliament today.  “The coalition has decided to put the responsibility for
reducing the deficit onto the bank accounts of the country’s
brightest and most talented young people,” Denham said. “It’s
middle-income graduates who will pay more than their fair
share.”  “The roads to Westminster are covered with the skidmarks
of political parties changing direction on this issue,” Cable
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 