-- Buffett Says `Pain Will Be Felt for a Long Time' Amid Recovery
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-10-12T22:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/buffett-says-pain-will-be-felt-for-a-long-time-amid-recovery.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said the effects of the
financial crisis and the recession will be felt “for a long
time” as the global economy recovers.  “The worst is behind us, but the pain will be felt for a
long time from what happened,” Buffett said in previously
recorded remarks played today at a conference at Airport City
outside Tel Aviv. “We’re inching forward, we’re not galloping
forward.”  U.S. economic growth has slowed this year as a lack of jobs
curbed consumer spending. The unemployment rate remained at 9.6
percent in September, near a 26-year high of 10.1 percent last
October. Buffett, 80, said last month that he was “a huge
bull” on the U.S. and reiterated that Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire was hiring.  “We’re going in the right direction,” Buffett said.  The worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended
in June 2009, the National Bureau of Economic Research said on
Sept. 20. A recent slowdown raises the possibility of another
slump. Economic growth decelerated to an annualized 1.7 percent
rate in the second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first and 5
percent in the last three months of 2009, according to the
Commerce Department.  ‘Love to Acquire’  Buffett built Berkshire into a $200 billion company through
four decades of  stock picks  and takeovers. The billionaire
investor, also Berkshire’s chief executive officer and biggest
shareholder, bought Israeli toolmaker Iscar Metalworking Cos. in
2006 in his largest acquisition of a non-U.S. firm. Buffett
plans to travel to Japan and India in the next year in search of
opportunities.  “We would love to acquire either a big independent company
in Israel or other places,” Buffett said in an interview with
Yariv Becher, Israeli Consul for Economic Affairs to the U.S.
Midwest.  Israel’s economy has bounced back from the global crisis
faster than many developed countries. The Bank of Israel is
predicting growth of about 4 percent in 2010, rising from 0.8
percent in 2009.  Exports climbed 19.9 percent in the second quarter,
according to Israel’s Central Bureau of Statistics. Exporters
include technology companies such as  Nice Systems Ltd.  and the
Israeli branch of  Intel Corp. ;  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. , the world’s largest maker of generic drugs; and Iscar,
which produces precision metal-cutting tools.  ‘Stop at Israel’  “If you go to the Middle East and you’re looking for oil,
skip” Israel, Buffett said. “If you’re going looking for
brains, just stop at Israel. You don’t have to go anyplace
else.”  Israel’s  TA-25 Index  gained more than 20 percent in the 12
months ended yesterday to close at a record high of 1,242.50.
The index slipped 4.43 to 1,238.07 today.  Buffett’s pronouncements on the economy are watched by
policy makers and investors. Buffett, the world’s third-richest
person, oversees more than 200,000 Berkshire employees who work
for units selling insurance, building supplies and consumer
goods. He was in China last month to visit carmaker  BYD Co. ,
where Berkshire has holdings valued at more than $1 billion.
He’ll travel to Japan and India in the next year to seek
possible investments.  Buffett told shareholders in February 2009 that “America’s
best days lie ahead” even though he wrote that the economy
would be  “in shambles”  for the remainder of the year.
Berkshire cut about 20,000 jobs in 2009, and profits advanced in
the second half of that year. In November, the company said,
“the credit crisis has abated.”  Buffett predicted on May 2 that unemployment would
decrease.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David at   cbendavid@bloomberg.net  