-- Business Confidence Stays Near 4-Month High as Resources Boost Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-12T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/business-confidence-stays-near-4-month-high-as-resources-boost-economy.html
Australian business confidence in
September stayed near a four-month high and conditions improved
in the mining and transport industries as a resources boom
propels the nation’s economy.  The  confidence index  slipped to 10, from 11 in August,
according to a National Australia Bank Ltd. survey of more than
400 companies from Sept. 26-30, and released in Sydney today.
The business conditions gauge, a measure of hiring, sales and
profits, rose to 7 from 5 a month earlier.  The report adds to evidence including increased hiring that
supports central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens ’ view of an economy
that may strengthen. It also reflects Australia’s “multispeed
economy,” the survey said, as shipments of coal and iron ore
outpace growth in retail and manufacturing.  “Trading and profitability are exceptionally strong in
mining but negative in retailing,”  Alan Oster , chief economist
at National Australia in Melbourne, said in the report.  The Reserve Bank of Australia before year end is likely to
boost the benchmark lending rate, currently at 4.5 percent, and
increase it to 5.5 percent by the third quarter of 2011, Oster
said.  Economic growth in Australia is expected to pick up from
its current rate of about 3.25 percent to closer to 4 percent
“over the next couple of years,” central bank Deputy Governor
 Ric Battellino  said last week.  Job Gains  A report on Oct. 7 showed full-time employment in the past
two months had its biggest back-to-back increase since 1988.
Gross domestic product expanded 3.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the biggest gain since 2008, a
report showed last month.  Business confidence, which weakened in each of the five
months through July, has remained above its long-term average
and “reduced turbulence in European financial markets may have
played a role in the improved sentiment,” Oster said.  “Manufacturing has reported negative employment conditions
for four months in a row, probably because its trade-exposed
sectors have been pressured by slowing global growth and then by
the appreciating” Australian currency, Oster said.  The Australian dollar is trading near the highest level
since it began trading freely in 1983 amid speculation Federal
Reserve officials will reiterate the need to expand stimulus as
the U.S. economy loses traction.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  