-- Cameron Plans to Set Out Expenditure Cuts on Defense Programs on Oct. 19
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-12T17:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/cameron-plans-to-set-out-expenditure-cuts-on-defense-programs-on-oct-19.html
The U.K. government will set out
which defense programs it will cut on Oct. 19, a day before it
spells out how much most other ministries’ spending is being
reduced to tackle the  record budget deficit .  Prime Minister  David Cameron  will tell lawmakers that day
how his administration plans to redefine military needs, his
spokesman,  Steve Field , told reporters in London today. The
announcement will take into account a 38 billion-pound ($60
billion) funding gap in the arms-procurement budget, spiraling
costs and the government’s overall 156 billion-pound shortfall.  An hour-long meeting of the National Security Council
chaired by Cameron reached basic agreement on the scope of the
cuts, without taking formal decisions, a person familiar with
the discussions said. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  and Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  are on the panel. Another person
involved with the talks said a final accord will be reached by
Oct. 15. They gave no details of which programs might be axed.  The dispute over the military budget has been the most
public within Cameron’s coalition, with Fox dubbing it a “soap
opera.” The defense ministry may accept spending cuts of about
10 percent, two people familiar with the negotiations said
before the meeting. That’s less than the 20 percent reduction
Osborne originally sought and the 25 percent he’s seeking across
the government.  Minor amendments to the defense budget may still be made as
other ministries reach agreement with the Treasury by the end of
the week, the people said.  Security Review  A day before Cameron’s Oct. 19 statement, the government
will set out the results of its review of how Britain should
reshape its security for the post-Cold War era, Field said. The
statement, which will probably be made by Foreign Secretary
 William Hague , will center on counter-terrorism and improving
cyber security.  Fox warned the premier in a letter leaked last month that
deep cuts to armed-forces spending while Britain is at war in
Afghanistan would hit soldiers’ morale and damage the
Conservative Party. Fox later described Cameron as his
“strongest ally.”  Among final decisions still to be taken are whether to
carry on with building two aircraft carriers and whether to
maintain orders for attack aircraft to replace Tornado jets, the
people said.  A decision to adapt the carriers to use a catapult
launching system was one of the options being considered, one of
the people said. That would save extra costs for planes that can
take off over a short distance.  Major suppliers of equipment to Britain’s armed forces
include  BAE Systems Plc ,  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  and  Finmeccanica
SpA ’s AgustaWestland unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 