-- Canadian Troops to Quit U.A.E. Base After Dispute Over Commercial Flights
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-10-12T14:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/canadian-troops-to-quit-u-a-e-base-over-emirates-row-postmedia-reports.html
Canada is preparing to remove troops
based in the United Arab Emirates after a dispute between the
countries over landing rights for commercial flights.  “Canadian Forces are planning contingencies for the
relocation of CF military assets presently located at Camp
Mirage,” Alain Cacchione, a spokesman for the Department of
Foreign Affairs and International Trade, said in response to e-
mailed questions today, without giving a reason.  Camp Mirage, a military logistics camp near Dubai, serves
as a jump-off point for Canadian forces in Afghanistan. Canada
currently has a 2,800-soldier force serving in Afghanistan. The
government aims to end its operations in the country next year.  The U.A.E. said it is “disappointed” by Canada’s refusal
to grant additional landing rights to U.A.E. airlines, the Gulf
state’s official WAM news agency reported on Oct. 10, citing the
country’s ambassador to Canada, Mohammed Abdullah al-Ghafli. He
called the negotiations “protracted and frustrating.”  U.A.E. carriers including Emirates have been seeking dozens
of new landing slots in Canada, contending that the six weekly
flights currently allowed are not enough to cover demand.
Transport Canada, the government agency that oversees the
airline industry, and Air Canada opposed granting more slots on
concerns that U.A.E. carriers may eat into Air Canada’s traffic
to cities such as Frankfurt.  Failure by Canadian authorities to come to an agreement
with the U.A.E. “undoubtedly affects the bilateral
relationship,” al-Ghafli’s statement said.  ‘Amicable Resolution’  Emirates Chief Executive Officer Tim Clark said today his
airline “regrets these developments but respects the positions
taken by both the U.A.E. and Canadian governments,” in an e-
mailed response to questions. “We sincerely hope there will be
an amicable resolution in the future,” he added.  A U.A.E. government spokesman declined to comment about the
relocation of Canadian forces or the aviation dispute. No one at
the U.A.E.’s General Civil Aviation Authority was available for
comment.  “The U.A.E. is becoming more confident, more assertive,
and more aware of its own power and influence in the region and
in the world,” said  Fawaz Gerges , a professor of Middle East
politics at the London School of Economics and Political
Science. “They have the resources and the means to exercise
their power because power isn’t just about military power
anymore.”  Trade Partners  The U.A.E. is the largest trade partner with Canada in the
Middle East and North Africa, with more than $1.5 billion of
business in 2008, according to U.A.E. government figures. As
many as 27,000 Canadians live in the U.A.E. today.  Last week, Waterloo, Canada-based  Research In Motion Ltd. 
averted a ban on its BlackBerry smartphone in the U.A.E., after
the country’s phone regulator said the company’s messaging
services now comply with local security regulations.  “The message here is if they want to do business with the
U.A.E., it’s going to be on the U.A.E.’s terms,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis. “This is a trend we’re
seeing in both their regional and extra-regional policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net  or
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 