-- Canon Looks Abroad for Growth, May Seek Deals Bigger Than Oce
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-12T17:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/canon-may-seek-deals-bigger-than-1-billion-takeover-of-oce-mitarai-says.html
Canon Inc. , the world’s largest
camera maker, may make acquisitions bigger than its $1 billion
takeover of  Oce NV  as it starts a five-year plan to diversify
into new countries and products.  Deals larger than the acquisition of Dutch printer-maker
Oce are “fine with me,” and could focus on printing,
chemicals, or medical companies, Canon Chief Executive Officer
 Fujio Mitarai  said in an interview in Paris yesterday.  Mitarai yesterday unveiled a plan to raise revenue to 5
trillion yen ($61 billion) by 2015 and restructure operations
with three global headquarters, in Japan, Europe and the U.S.,
and more “localized production” and research.  Export-oriented Japanese companies are shifting output and
innovation abroad as the yen climbs to record highs against the
dollar and American, Taiwanese, and Korean companies develop
stronger technology. Carmakers  Toyota Motor Co.  and  Nissan Motor
Co.  have announced plans to move production outside of Japan.  While Canon doesn’t have current plans to open factories
abroad, apart from new facilities in Taiwan and Thailand, “we
have to create value in the U.S. and in Europe as well,” with
Oce as a base, Mitarai said. “Until now we have been centred on
Japan, innovation came from Japan, and that sufficed.”  Canon’s offer for Venlo, Netherlands-based Oce became
unconditional in March and is Canon’s largest-ever acquisition.  Increasing the proportion of research and development
abroad is becoming essential for Japanese companies looking for
a technological edge, Mark Manger, a professor of international
relations at the London School of Economics, said by phone.  Not ‘Dynamic’  “The Japanese market isn’t particularly dynamic, and due
to demographic pressures they will have a shortage of qualified
researchers and engineers in the next few years,” he said.  Technology companies such as  Google Inc.  and  International
Business Machines Corp.  “have R&D campuses in innovation
centers around the world like Cambridge, Massachusetts, and
that’s a strategy Japanese companies need to emulate,” he said.  Doing more development work abroad may bring Canon’s
research operations closer to customers, as 78 percent of sales
came from outside Japan last year.  Mitarai yesterday said he’s confident the Tokyo-based
company can achieve its  financial goals  for 2010, which include
reaching 3.75 trillion yen in sales, up from 3.2 trillion yen
last year.  The progress of the Japanese currency, which yesterday
touched a 15-year high of 81.39 yen to the dollar, may hurt
Canon’s results. Operating profit will shrink by 4.7 billion yen
for every 1 yen the currency strengthens beyond 90 against the
dollar in the second half of the year, Canon has said.  While “the ideal would be to reflect the appreciation of
the yen in the price” of Canon products, the company is
focusing on cutting production costs rather than adjusting
retail prices for now, Mitarai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 