-- CapitaMalls' India Partner Prestige Estates to Start Selling Shares in IPO
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-10-12T06:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/capitamalls-india-partner-prestige-estates-to-start-selling-shares-in-ipo.html
Prestige Estates Projects Ltd. , the
Indian developer in a mall venture with CapitaMalls Asia Ltd.,
began selling shares in an initial public offering today as the
nation’s five-month property IPO lull ends.  Prestige, which mostly develops real estate in Bangalore
where it is based, aims to raise as much as 12 billion rupees
($270 million) from the sale. The company will sell shares for
as much as 183 rupees each, according to an e-mailed statement.  The developer sold 11.77 million shares at 183 rupees each
to investors including the Government of Singapore, HSBC Equity
Fund and Monetary Authority of Singapore before the sale opened.  Oberoi Realty Ltd., which completed a sale last week and
aims to raise 10.3 billion rupees in an IPO, and Prestige’s sale
may prompt $3 billion of property share sales at a time when
real estate stocks have underperformed the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index. The  BSE Realty Index  has
gained 1.4 percent this year, compared with a 16 percent rise in
the  Sensex .  “We are bullish on both the physical real-estate market
and realty stocks,” said  Vaibhav Sanghavi , a fund manager at
Ambit Capital Ltd. in Mumbai. “Though property stocks haven’t
performed well so far, we expect the strong demand in the
physical market to flow into stocks over a period of time.”  Indian realty companies such as  Lodha Developers Ltd.  and
 Emaar MGF Land Ltd.  are among at least 11 builders waiting to
tap the market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are seeing some quality paper coming to market so
that’s a good sign,” Sanghavi said.  Prestige plans to use the proceeds from the IPO to complete
pending projects, buy land and repay some loans, said  Irfan Razack , chairman at the company.  Not Cheap  The builder, which has completed 150 projects and developed
34.23 million square feet, has rights to develop 57.36 million
square feet of which 28.43 million square feet is saleable area
and 11.04 million square feet is for lease, according to a
company statement.  Prestige’s price to earnings ratio is 33 times its 2010
earnings at the upper end of the price band, based on
calculations using data provided by the company in the
prospectus. Rivals Sobha Developers Ltd.  trades  at 25 times
earnings, while Puravankara Projects Ltd. trades at 16 times.  “The pricing isn’t cheap compared to its competitors like
Sobha and Puravankara,” said  Surajit Pal , an analyst at Elara
Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai. “Seeing the current mood in
the market it may be oversubscribed but there won’t be much left
on the table for investors.”  Lower Margins  Prestige focuses on a joint development agreement model for
project acquisitions, unlike its peers which focus on a capital
intensive model, which may lower its profit margin,  Aashiesh Agarwaal , a Mumbai-based analyst at Edelweiss Securities Ltd.,
said in a note to clients yesterday. He has a “do not
subscribe” rating on the developer because the issue price
offers a limited margin of safety, he said.  Prestige has partnered with  CapitaMalls Asia , the retail
property unit of Southeast Asia’s biggest developer, to manage
retail malls set up by it and another unit of the Singapore-
based developer in South India.  Prestige’s profit rose 97 percent to 1.44 billion rupees in
the year ended March 31, 2010. Revenue climbed 19 percent to
10.86 billion rupees.  Kotak Mahindra Capital Co., Enam Securities Pvt., J.P.
Morgan India Pvt. and UBS Securities India Pvt. are managing the
sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  