-- Carney's Pause `Recipe' Is Flavored by Job Losses, Housing: Canada Credit
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-12T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/carney-s-pause-recipe-is-flavored-by-job-losses-housing-canada-credit.html
Investors have become more convinced
the Bank of Canada will stop raising interest rates at next
week’s meeting than at any time since it last boosted borrowing
costs on Sept. 8.  Following declines in jobs and housing starts, the yield on
the December bankers’ acceptance contract, the most actively
traded contract, fell to 1.305 percent on Oct. 8 from 1.310
percent. It’s the lowest since Sept. 7, the day before the Bank
of Canada raised its  key rate  to 1 percent from 0.75 percent.  During the past month, Canadian government securities
returned 1.39 percent, the fourth-best performer among 26
countries’ debt, according to the Bloomberg/EFFAS Bond Index.
Government figures released Oct. 8 showed an unexpected  loss  of
6,600 jobs and a decline in  housing starts  in September, and a
survey found small companies saw little gain in credit access.  The reports are “a recipe for maintaining a very pro-
growth type of monetary policy,” said  Aron Gampel , deputy chief
economist at Scotia Capital in Toronto. “The Bank of Canada
will go on hold, not only in October, but probably through a
good part of next year.” Bank of Canada policy meetings are
scheduled for Oct. 19 and Dec. 7.  Employment gains averaged 6,600 during the past three
months, down from the 75,530 average in the previous quarter,
according to Statistics Canada. Housing starts fell 1.5 percent
to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 186,400 in September,
according to Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp.  Carney’s Stance  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who has raised the
bank’s key lending rate three times this year, has already
signaled he’ll apply “caution” in the face of a “more
gradual” recovery in Canada and signs the U.S. Federal Reserve
may ease policy.  “Taking a wait-and-see approach is a smart thing to do at
this time,” Gampel said in a telephone interview. Last week,
Gampel’s bank changed its forecast for the next central bank
rate increase to September 2011 from January.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Financement Quebec, which
seeks loans on behalf of schools, universities and hospitals,
added C$170 million to its bonds due in June 2016, with a
floating-rate coupon set quarterly at 27 basis points greater
than the Canadian Dealer Offered Rate known as CDOR.  2-year Sale  Canada tomorrow will auction C$3 billion ($3 billion) of 2-
year notes, according to a statement on the Bank of Canada’s
website. The 1.5 percent securities mature in December 2012. The
amount of extra yield investors demand to own Canada’s 2-year
securities versus similar maturity U.S. notes stood at 98.5
basis point on Oct. 8, compared with 101.9 basis points Sept. 15
when Canada  last sold 2-year debt.  The extra yield investors demand to hold corporate debt
instead of government bonds stood at 145 basis points on Oct. 8
unchanged from a week earlier. Yields fell to 3.57 percent from
3.68 percent. The securities have returned 7.54 percent this
year, compared with 11.3 percent in the U.S. and 9.05 percent
globally.  In the provincial bond market, relative yields stood at 57
basis points Oct. 8 down from 58 basis points Oct. 1, the
Merrill Lynch data show. Bonds in the index have returned 7.85
percent this year, compared with 3.71 percent in all of last
year.  Canadian financial markets were closed yesterday for the
nation’s Thanksgiving Day holiday.  Lending Conditions  The central bank’s own surveys of business executives and
lending officers last week found evidence of a “modest”
recovery and easier credit conditions. Still, the bank said
“lending conditions appeared to be largely unchanged” for
smaller companies during the third quarter.  “It isn’t that easy to get financing,”  Jayson Myers ,
president of Canadian Manufacturers & Exporters, said in an Oct.
7 interview at Bloomberg’s Ottawa office. “There are a lot of
companies that are very proud of the fact that they aren’t going
to the bank now because they are working off their own cash.”  Claude Guevin , chief financial officer of Rona Inc.,
Canada’s largest home-improvement retailer, said he recently met
with bankers who are struggling to find companies that will
borrow money. “The financing isn’t a problem and I’m sure it’s
the case for many other companies,” he said.  Customers at Boucherville, Quebec-based Rona are still
being “selective” in their purchases, Guevin said. “I cannot
confirm a real recovery, he said by telephone. “It was a deep
recession, it’s a world recession, so it will take a while to
get out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 