-- Cathay Pacific Said to Replace Economy Seats Amid Complaints
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g   a n d   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-12T10:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/cathay-pacific-said-to-replace-economy-seats-after-passengers-complaints.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. , Hong
Kong’s biggest carrier, will replace  economy-class seats  in
long-haul planes after passengers complained about discomfort,
according to three people familiar with the plan.  The existing coach seats, which have fixed-backs to prevent
passengers from disturbing the person behind them when reclining,
will be refitted and moved to short-haul and regional aircraft,
said the people who declined to be identified before an
announcement. The seats were in 41 Cathay planes at the end of
last year. Older aircraft were refitted with the units in a
program that ran from 2007 to November, 2009.  “There’s been a lot of criticism of the seats,” said
 Shaun Rein , managing director of Shanghai-based China Market
Research Group, which does consumer surveys for airlines and
other clients. “It seems that Cathay is listening.”  The airline will also overhaul business-class and first-
class cabins as part of the long-haul refit, which includes
Boeing Co. 777-300ERs and some Airbus SAS A330s, according to
the people. Cathay’s seat order for its last long-haul revamp,
which included coach and business-class units, was expected to
be worth about $155 million,  Amin J. Khoury , chairman and chief
executive officer of supplier B/E Aerospace Inc., said in a
March 2006 conference call, according to a Bloomberg transcript.  “While our passengers value the protection of living space
afforded by the fixed backshell seat, we are constantly looking
for ways we can further improve our products and services,”
 Carolyn Leung , a Cathay spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed reply
to Bloomberg questions.  Premium Economy  Cathay will also add premium-economy seating in the long-
haul revamp that will begin next year, said the people.  The carrier fell 2.3 percent in Hong Kong trading today,
the most in almost a month, to H$21.40. The company has risen 48
percent this year, compared with a 5.7 percent gain for the
city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  The fixed-back seats are uncomfortable and don’t provide
head support when put into the recline position as the cushions
move downward rather than pivoting backward, said Ali Chan, a
salesman for a credit-card maker, who flew on holiday to Rome
with Cathay about two weeks ago.  “I can usually sleep on planes, but this time I woke up
again and again,” he said. “I would avoid flying long-haul in
this seat next time.”  Cushion Upgrades  B/E Aerospace , the world’s largest maker of cabin interiors,
is working with Cathay on cushion upgrades for the fixed-back
seats, said  Greg Powell , a spokesman for the Wellington,
Florida-based company.  “We’re happy they’re taking the seats and putting them on
an existing fleet,” he said. The fixed-back seats were
specifically designed for Cathay, he said.  The new revamp will be announced in early December, two of
the people said. The airline is still working out the costs of
the overhaul, which will take about two years to complete, all
three said.  Cathay operated 31 A330s and 18 777-300ERs at the end of
June, according to its interim results announcement. The airline
has 12 A330s fitted with long-haul cabins, according to its
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net ;
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  