-- Chairman Mao Never Left Board as Communists Dominate China Inc.
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-12T21:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/chairman-mao-never-left-board-as-communists-assert-control-over-china-inc-.html
By most measures, Zhejiang Gonow
Auto Co. was one of China’s private-enterprise success stories.
Established in 2003, the company produces microvans popular with
farmers and sells pickup trucks as far afield as Iran and Peru.  Last year, founder Miao Xuezhong began building sport
utility vehicles in Shandong province and opened a third
assembly line in Hangzhou, a city known in imperial times for
its poets and courtesans. Gonow’s main factory in the eastern
city of Taizhou displays flags of 30 of the nations where its
products are sold, including Egypt, Libya and Saudi Arabia.  The popularity of Gonow’s products may have doomed its
chances to remain in private hands, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its November issue.  In April, the company agreed to merge with  Guangzhou
Automobile Group Co. , a state-owned auto company run by  Zhang Fangyou , a Communist Party operative since 1975 who was chosen
for the job by government officials.  Zeng Yehui, head of brand management at Gonow, says a state
edict pushing consolidation in the car industry influenced the
decision to merge.  “The policy didn’t push us to cooperate, but it did
encourage us and guide us,” he says. “The cooperation between
Guangzhou Auto and Gonow is in accordance with the country’s
policy direction.”  Four years ago, China’s leadership decreed that certain
“pillar” industries, including automaking, telecommunications,
mines, energy production and steel manufacturing, should be
dominated by companies under government control.  Beijing Consensus  Today, those newly assertive state-owned enterprises (SOEs)
are snapping up domestic rivals, expanding their market share
and elbowing aside Western investors such as the Washington-
based Carlyle Group in the quest for assets. Their rise comes as
China surpasses Japan to become the world’s second-largest
economy, and has helped inspire a new school of thought called
the Beijing Consensus, which holds that state-directed
capitalism can help developing nations avoid the financial
upheavals associated with free markets.  The increasing clout of the SOEs has also triggered a
debate among Western investors over whether China’s communists
are building businesses better able to compete on the world
stage or shoring up their own power by creating monopolies run
by the party elite.  Preferential Policies  The State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission (SASAC), created in 2003 to manage government
enterprises, held $935.1 billion in domestic businesses at the
end of 2009, including majority stakes in the parent companies
of  China Telecom Corp.  and  PetroChina Co.  That’s up from $825.5
billion of investment in 2008.  Those companies enjoy easy access to capital from China’s
state-owned banks. Last year, SOEs helped fuel their expansions
thanks to loans from institutions such as the  Bank of China Ltd. 
and  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , which altogether
issued a total of $1.4 trillion in new lending.  At the same time the state is stepping up its role as an
investor, it’s also issuing preferential policies for homegrown
businesses. In November 2009, the government announced a plan to
encourage companies to promote “indigenous innovation,” which
foreign business groups said amounted to preferential treatment.  That move drew a protest from Western investors, who said
the guidelines would limit trade and foreign investment. A month
later, 34 trade groups led by the American and European Union
chambers of commerce complained that the policy could
effectively cut off foreign companies from the 741 billion yuan
($111 billion) government procurement market.  Western Protest  “My concern is that it will lead to an increase in the
number of state-owned enterprise oligopolies supported by
industrial policy,” says  Christian Murck , a former Chase
Manhattan banker who’s president of the Beijing-based American
Chamber of Commerce in China. “The government will be more
deeply involved in picking winners, rescuing losers and
structuring industrial sectors instead of relying on competition
and market forces.”  The U.S. Congress is stepping up the pressure on President
 Barack Obama ’s administration to confront China on its
unwillingness to let its currency rise more quickly in value
against the dollar. Lawmakers say an undervalued yuan unfairly
boosts Chinese exports.  ‘Strategic Restructuring’  As Western officials grow restive, some money-losing SOEs
are snapping up profitable competitors.  In September 2009,  Shandong Iron & Steel Group , a state-
owned company based in Jinan, said it would acquire rival Rizhao
Steel Holding Group Co. as part of a government mandate to
strengthen the country’s steelmaking industry. Shandong had a
loss of 6.2 million yuan in the nine months before the deal was
announced; Rizhao posted a profit in the first six months of
2009, according to Hong Kong-based  Kai Yuan Holdings Ltd. , which
owned part of the steelmaker.  In May, China North Industries Group Corp., the country’s
biggest weapons maker, signed a “strategic restructuring”
agreement with  Xuzhou Construction Machinery Group Co.,  the
country’s eighth-biggest maker of commercial vehicles and trucks.  The state-owned arms maker pledged to invest 15 billion
yuan in Xuzhou’s home province through 2015. China North
succeeded where the Carlyle Group had failed. The buyout firm
had offered $375 million to purchase 85 percent of XCMG in 2005,
only to be stymied by the rules restricting foreign investment
in strategic industries. Subsequent approaches by Carlyle to buy
reduced stakes in the company failed to win government approval.  Buffett Visit  State-owned companies are also beginning to tread on
territory until now dominated by private companies.  In August, SASAC announced an effort to spur innovation in
the auto industry when 16 state-owned car and energy companies
formed an association to develop new technologies for electric
vehicles. Conspicuously absent from the group: privately held
 BYD Co. , the country’s biggest maker of electric cars, which is
10 percent owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.   “BYD is a young and promising company experiencing dynamic
growth,” Buffett said on a Sept. 27 visit to the southern
Chinese city of Shenzhen, where the manufacturer is based. “BYD
will play a leading role in the future.” The company’s share
price has slumped 16.9 percent this year.  There was another indication of China’s plans to compete
with free market rivals in September when  Wang Jianzhou ,
chairman of state-controlled China Mobile Ltd., said his company
planned to start an Internet search engine next year, taking on
privately owned  Baidu Inc.   Biggest Purchase  On Oct. 11, state-owned  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest
offshore oil producer, made the biggest acquisition of a U.S.
oil and gas asset by a Chinese company when it announced the
purchase of a one-third stake in  Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s  Eagle
Ford shale gas project in Texas.  Huang Yasheng , a professor of political economy and
international management at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, says the best way to measure the influence of
government-controlled companies is to look at the amount of
fixed-asset investment as a percentage of gross domestic product.
Much of that spending is directed to projects that boost the
fortunes of state-owned companies such as  Zhuzhou CSR Times
Electric Co. , a train equipment manufacturer, and  China National
Materials Co. , which supplies cement makers.  By that yardstick, the state is gaining. In 2009, fixed-
asset investment totaled 19.4 trillion yuan, or 58 percent of
the country’s 33.5 trillion yuan economy. In 2005, those
investments made up 41.2 percent of the economy, according to
figures from China’s National Bureau of Statistics. In the first
seven months of 2010, sales at all state-owned companies rose
38.8 percent from the year-earlier period, to 16.9 trillion yuan,
according to the Finance Ministry.  New Aphorism  The phenomenon of centrally planned capitalism has inspired
a new four-character Chinese aphorism: “The state advances and
private companies retreat.” The popularity of the term -- often
cited on blogs -- prompted the Communist Party to issue a
 statement  in November 2009 saying that the phrase did not
reflect official policy.  On visits to several Beijing-based state-owned companies on
June 30 and July 1, including to the headquarters of Cnooc, Vice
Premier  Zhang Dejiang  made clear who was in control.  “This year, the centrally administered enterprises have
earnestly carried out the decisions and plans of the Communist
Party and State Council,” he said.  Less than three weeks later, the State Council published a
directive reminding managers of state-run enterprises that
Beijing needed to be consulted on major issues such as mergers
and acquisitions and overseas investments.  Better Managed  Stephen Roach , chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, says that
the state-controlled behemoths that trade shares on the New York,
Shanghai and Hong Kong stock exchanges are often well-managed.
That distinguishes them from the inefficient, over-staffed SOEs
of the past, he says.  “Today’s SOEs are very different from their predecessors,”
Roach says. “The management of these companies are much more
accountable to a broad cross-section of international investors.”  Roach adds that China’s leaders showed a steadier hand than
their Western counterparts in keeping their economy growing,
thanks to a 4 trillion yuan stimulus program announced in 2008.
The country’s GDP grew 9.1 percent last year even as the global
economy contracted 0.6 percent, according to the International
Monetary Fund. China’s GDP will expand 10.5 percent this year,
the IMF said in July. In contrast, it estimates that the U.S.
economy will grow 3.3 percent, with the euro zone expanding by
just 1 percent.  “When they set policy, China’s leaders excel in execution
and implementation of that policy,” Roach says.  Capitalist Hybrids  China’s success in keeping its economy on the move may
inspire nations from Angola to Myanmar to shun free markets and
democracy, as the Washington Consensus gives way to a Beijing
Consensus based on state-led capitalism and authoritarian
government, says  Stefan Halper , a senior research fellow at
Magdalene College, Cambridge University.  “The most powerful asset in China’s global presentation is
its market authoritarian model,” Halper says. “It is seizing the
imagination of the developing world.”  China’s capitalist hybrids such as  China State Construction
Engineering Corp.  build ports in Sri Lanka, railroads in
Tanzania and cricket stadiums in Jamaica and Antigua.  Nina Wu , co-manager of the New York-listed  Dreyfus Greater
China Fund , which invests in stocks in China, Hong Kong and
Taiwan, says China’s policies are making state-owned companies
more attractive.  Investor Preference  “For similar companies, I prefer SOEs over private
companies,” says Wu, 41, who’s based in Hong Kong. “They have
natural monopoly powers in each sector.” Her $1 billion fund has
gained 6.8 percent in the year to Oct. 11 after a 120 percent
rise last year.  The six biggest companies on the Shanghai Stock Exchange
Composite Index count the government as their largest
shareholder, as do five of the six biggest on Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index.  On March 22, China’s premier,  Wen Jiabao , confronted
concerns about state control of enterprise before a group of
international executives, including  Ford Motor Co. ’s  Alan Mulally  and  Rio Tinto Plc ’s  Tom Albanese , in Beijing’s Great
Hall of the People.  “China will not pursue its interests at a cost to others,”
Wen told the CEOs. “The Chinese government welcomes
multinationals from around the world.”  New Rules  In May, China’s State Council went further to address
investor concerns by publishing “36 new rules” designed to
encourage more private involvement in telecommunications,
financial services, mining, logistics, water and oil. Any
multinational setting up a research and development center in
the favored industries will win tax breaks, and investments
under $300 million can be approved by local authorities without
Beijing’s oversight.  Zhang Yi, a Shanghai-based partner at the King & Wood law
firm, said in an  analysis  that the 36 rules would do little to
reduce the chokehold state enterprises have on many industries.  “The likelihood that private capital may enter in these
industries is very slim unless the private investors are
protected by special policies,” Zhang wrote.  Last year, 108 companies overseen by SASAC reported a
profit of 3.99 trillion yuan on sales of 12.6 trillion yuan, the
commission reported on its website.  Many of their top executives are picked by the Communist
Party’s Organization Department, the unit that vets candidates
for the country’s most prestigious positions, from university
presidents to provincial political bosses.  Western Rivals  As SOEs grow stronger, they’ll be able to take on Western
rivals, says  Jonathan Anderson , Beijing-based chief emerging-
markets economist at UBS AG.  “China wants to have its Sony, wants to have its Samsung
and wants to have its Hyundai,” says Anderson, former China
country head for the IMF. The first step in the quest is to
clean up the small and inefficient companies in the steel, auto
and rare-earth-mining industries, he says.  China first embraced private enterprise as a way to move
its economy away from agricultural subsistence under  Deng Xiaoping  in the late 1970s. Deng dismantled the collective farms
that had failed to adequately feed the country’s growing
population, letting peasants till their own plots and set up
businesses. He also established coastal foreign-trade zones and
formalized relations with the U.S.  Reaction to Unrest  MIT’s Huang says the emergence of state-run companies can
be traced to the Communist Party’s reaction to the 1989
Tiananmen Square demonstrations. Deng and then-party head  Jiang Zemin  shifted the country’s development model from rural,
profit-minded entrepreneurs and farmers to inner-city
development led by state-owned companies and foreign-backed
enterprises, partly to quell urban unrest.  In 2001, China entered the World Trade Organization to gain
greater access to international markets. In return, the
government pledged to drop tariffs, crack down on the
counterfeiting of Western goods and end favorable treatment of
domestic investors.  Those promises persuaded then-U.S. President  Bill Clinton 
to push for congressional approval for legislation paving the
way for China’s WTO accession, saying in 2000 that membership
would help shift China away from an economy dominated by state-
owned firms.  “That system was a big source of the Communist Party’s
power,” Clinton said in a March 8, 2000, speech in Washington.
“Now people are leaving those firms, and when China joins the
WTO, they will leave them faster.”  State’s Hand  The U.S. and other Western nations overestimated the
Communist Party’s openness to free enterprise, says  Jim McGregor ,
a Beijing-based senior counselor at APCO Worldwide, a public-
affairs group that advises such clients as government-owned
 China Cosco Holdings Co.  He says that China’s leaders never
promised to dismantle the SOEs.  “We all had these preconceived notions of what would happen
in China once it joined the WTO, and I think China had its own
notions of what it would do,” he says.  The hand of the state can be found even in China’s nascent
wine industry, which is dominated by such state-controlled
companies as Cofco Ltd. Travelers on the expressway from Beijing
to Zhangjiakou pass the company’s vineyards -- 30 kilometers (19
miles) from the Great Wall of China -- where a 12-meter-high
(40-foot-high) steel hand emerges from the earth, clutching a
bottle of the company’s flagship Great Wall wine.  ‘You Cannot Compete’  Judy Leissner, the Hong Kong-born chief executive officer
of Grace Vineyard, a family-owned grower in neighboring Shanxi
province, says she’s resigned to being a small player in a
growing industry.  “You cannot compete with the big guys,” Leissner, 32, says.
“Whatever they do, we avoid.”  If China’s leaders need evidence of how private enterprise
benefits its citizens, they could find it in  Taizhou , home to
Gonow, the privately held automaker that lost its independence.
At the base of emerald-colored mountains, peasants tend rice
paddies near BMW and Lexus dealers catering to the newly wealthy.
Near the expressway on the two-hour drive from Wenzhou to
Taizhou are hundreds of private factories making everything from
electric pumps to synthetic leather.  Guangzhou Auto, which will control a 51 percent stake in
Gonow, says the joint venture will expand sales.  “We believe, that with the support of good government
policies, actively seeking organic cooperation between state-
owned enterprises and private companies can strengthen
indigenous innovation and brands, can be mutually beneficial,
and can create new competitive advantages,” the company said in
a statement.  Arranged Marriages  Chen Xueli, 39, Gonow’s crew-cut-sporting vice president
who once served in China’s special  naval forces , says
Guangzhou’s cash will help the company upgrade its production
facilities, where workers currently put together cars with
muscle power, unassisted by robots. Gonow’s entrepreneurial
spirit won’t be broken by the merger, Chen says.  “It’s like marrying your girlfriend,” he says.  In their quest to solidify control over the economy,
China’s leaders are likely to encourage many more such arranged
marriages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing
or  mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  