-- Amazon, Clearwire, Imax, JPMorgan, Myriad: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-10-13T12:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/chevron-csx-intel-linear-mgm-resorts-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 7:45 a.m.  Amazon.com Inc.  (AMZN US) advanced 0.7 percent to $157.60.
The Web retailer was cut to “hold” from “buy” at Benchmark
Co.  Chevron Corp.  (CVX US) slipped 0.2 percent to $83.68. The
second-largest U.S. energy company said third-quarter earnings
were eroded by a weakening U.S. dollar, costs associated with a
deep-water drilling ban and lower prices for crude. Separately,
the company has moved up a planned maintenance shutdown at its
lube oils plant in Richmond, Virginia that was scheduled for
January, according to an article in Lube Report.  Clearwire Corp.  (CLWR US) rose 7.6 percent to $7.26. The
high-speed wireless carrier is seeking to raise $2.5 billion to
$5 billion in a wireless spectrum auction that has attracted
telephone and cable companies, said people with direct knowledge
of the sale. AT&T Inc. (T US), Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ
US), Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE GR), Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC
US) and Clearwire’s majority owner, Sprint Nextel Corp. (S US),
are among potential buyers of the spectrum, the people said.  CSX Corp.  (CSX US) gained 3.4 percent to $59.18. The
second-largest publicly traded U.S. railroad reported third-
quarter profit excluding some items of $1.08 a share, beating
the average analyst estimate of $1.04. The railroad is
“actively hiring” workers as the economy slowly improves and
may add as many as 3,000 next year, Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Ward  told CNBC.  General Electric Co.  (GE US) rose 0.6 percent to $17.30.
The company, whose equipment generates a third of the world’s
electricity, said its lighting unit may draw as much as 75
percent of sales from LED products within the next decade,
compared with less than 10 percent now, the division’s chief
 Michael Petras  said in an interview.  Imax Corp.  (IMAX US): The maker of technology to project
movies onto giant screens signed a joint venture with Germany’s
 CinemaxX AG  (MXC GR) to open a theater in Bremen in November,
according to a statement from Imax. The company plans to open at
least four more theaters in Germany and to expand its presence
in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  Intel Corp.  (INTC US) advanced 1.2 percent to $20.01. The
world’s biggest chipmaker said fourth-quarter sales may total as
much as $11.8 billion, compared with the average analyst
estimate of $11.3 billion, citing strong demand from businesses
and customers in emerging economies.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  (JPM US) gained 1.1 percent to $40.84.
The second-biggest U.S. bank by assets said third-quarter profit
rose 23 percent to $4.42 billion, or $1.01 a share, from $3.59
billion, or 82 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. Earnings
beat the average analyst estimate of 88 cents a share.  Linear Technology Corp.  (LLTC US) fell 4 percent to $30.30.
The maker of integrated circuits reported fiscal first-quarter
profit excluding some items of 59 cents a share, missing the
average analyst estimate of 60 cents.  MGM Resorts International  (MGM US) declined 5.3 percent to
$12.89. The biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip plans
to raise more than $500 million by selling stock, and said its
founder and biggest shareholder will reduce his stake.  Myriad Genetics Inc.  (MYGN US): The maker of a test for
detecting inherited breast cancer was raised to “outperform”
from “sector perform” at RBC Capital Markets Corp. by equity
analyst  Michael Yee . The firm said Myriad may be a takeover
target over the longer term for Roche Holding AG (ROG VX),
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN LN), Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN FP), or a
diagnostic company. The 12-month price estimate is $23 as Yee
expects Myriad management to reiterate its 2011 forecast.  Qualcomm Inc.  (QCOM US): The largest maker of wireless-
phone chips said its wholly owned subsidiary, Qualcomm
Innovation Center Inc., has acquired iSkoot Technologies Inc.
Terms of the purchase weren’t disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 