-- Chevron Profit Hurt by Weak Dollar, Drilling Ban
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-10-12T21:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/chevron-says-third-quarter-earnings-lower-than-second-quarter.html
Chevron Corp. , the second-largest
U.S. energy company, said third-quarter earnings were eroded by
a weakening U.S. dollar, costs associated with a deep-water
drilling ban and lower prices for crude.  Earnings for the period that ended Sept. 30 declined from
the second quarter, the San Ramon, California-based company said
in a Business Wire statement. Oil and natural-gas production,
which accounted for more than 95 percent of Chevron’s 2009
profit, rose 1.1 percent during the first two months of the
quarter.  Chevron is scheduled to release full third-quarter results
on Oct. 29. The company has been reducing investment in lower-
profit businesses such as crude refining and retail fuel sales
to focus on discovering untapped oil and natural-gas fields.  Chevron said expenses in its U.S. exploration business
increased as a result of the federal government’s prohibition on
deep-water drilling, imposed after  BP Plc ’s Macondo well erupted
in April, killing 11 workers and triggering the biggest oil
spill in U.S. history. The Interior Department, which oversees
offshore drilling, lifted the ban today after new safety
standards were devised.  Chevron fell 44 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $83.40 at 5:20
p.m. New York time. The stock has gained 8.7 percent this year,
outperforming its four largest publicly traded rivals: Exxon
Mobil Corp., PetroChina Co., Petroleo Brasileiro SA and Royal
Dutch Shell Plc.  In July,  Chevron  raised its full-year oil and gas
production estimate to the equivalent of 2.78 million barrels of
crude, which would be a company record.  Exxon, based in Irving, Texas, is the biggest U.S. energy
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  