-- Chile to Start Freeing Miners Trapped Half a Mile Underground
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-13T01:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/chile-to-start-freeing-trapped-33-as-pinera-arrives-at-mine.html
Chilean rescue workers began testing
capsules that will be used to free 33 men trapped about half a
mile underground for the last two months in the world’s longest
mine rescue.  Chile’s President  Sebastian Pinera , who arrived at the mine
site today, was briefed on the rescue by Mining Minister
 Laurence Golborne  and team leader Andre Sougarret. Rescuers aim
to free at least one miner tonight after a drill reached the
tunnels that have been their home since Aug. 5.  “We hope to conclude today, the 69th day since the miners
were trapped, with at least one on the surface,” Golborne told
reporters at the San Jose mine. “That’s the goal we’ve set and
we’re working as hard as we can for them.”  Rescuers completed practice runs yesterday in which they
rehearsed the extraction and transportation of the miners to a
nearby hospital, Health Minister  Jaime Manalich  said. Medical
workers are focused on ensuring that the miners are prepared to
rise to the surface in a process that could prove physically and
emotionally stressful, he told reporters.  Five rescue workers probably will travel down the well to
assist from the underground tunnels, remaining until after the
last miner has resurfaced, Golborne said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  issued a statement saying his
“thoughts and prayers” are with the miners, their families and
the rescue crews.  “While that rescue is far from over and difficult work
remains, we pray that by God’s grace, the miners will be able to
emerge safely and return to their families soon,” Obama said.  Rich in Minerals  The miners will be split into three groups for the rescue.
The first will provide information to rescuers and possibly help
with the operation, the health minister said. The weakest will
then come out, followed by the rest. Golborne today declined to
name the first miner who will be rescued.  The 33 men, who are eating meals rich in minerals and
protein to prevent nausea and stabilize blood pressure during
the ascent, are being examined remotely by medical officials on
the surface. Ten have been identified by authorities as being
the most in need of special care, Manalich said.  They’ll wear elastic bands on their lower extremities and a
waistband during the 15- to 20-minute ascent that will help
ensure proper blood circulation and prevent a reduction in
arterial pressure and possible fainting, the health minister
said. Rescue workers will supply the miners with emergency
oxygen in case dust on the ascent causes breathing problems.  Longest Mine Rescue  The miners want to wait until all 33 are brought to the
surface so they can travel to the hospital as a group, the
health minister said today. Authorities are instead seeking to
fly miners to hospital as soon as possible so they can undergo
examinations and any necessary treatment, Manalich said.  Chilean state-run Codelco,  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and other
mining companies, as well as the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, have assisted in what has become the world’s
longest-ever mine rescue.  “What began as a possible tragedy, we hope -- and thank
God -- seems to be ending as a true blessing,” Pinera told
reporters yesterday in Quito after meeting his Ecuadorean
counterpart.  The 33 men will face more than 1,000 media representatives
when they reach the surface. Family members camping out in the
Atacama desert have obtained lawyers and received book and film
offers, said Arnoldo Plaza Vega, 46, whose cousin is among the
men trapped inside the mine.  Chile’s  government  gave the men media training, conducting
classes over phone lines threaded through drill holes almost
half a mile underground.  Europe Invitations  “It’s hard to grasp how strange it is to come out of a
black hole in the ground for weeks or months into this sort of
media frenzy,” said  Jeff Goodell , whose book about nine
Pennsylvania miners trapped for 77 hours was a New York Times
bestseller. “The shock of coming into this media spotlight is
almost bigger than the shock of being trapped underground.”  Already, the men have been invited to make appearances in
Spain, England and Greece, and mining entrepreneur Leonardo
Farkas appeared on Chilean television promising each of the
miners 5 million pesos ($10,400). Their net annual wages range
from 3.8 million pesos to 9 million pesos, said Darinka Darce, a
friend of trapped miner Jimmy Sanchez’s family.  TV Rights  The television rights to the miners’ story could be worth
as much as $10,000 upfront and $50,000 to $100,000 at the time
of production, said Scott Manville, founder of TVFilmRights.com,
an online marketplace for buying and selling the rights to real-
life stories. The movie rights could eventually come with a
“purchase price” of $100,000 to $500,000, Manville said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Some families are in talks for exclusive rights to post-
rescue interviews, Plaza said.  “I’ve heard of some offers for around $20,000 for the
first television interview,” he said.  The miners reached a verbal agreement as a group about what
they will reveal to the public about their experiences and what
will remain private, Plaza said. They plan to legalize the
agreement before a notary, he said.  “They are a unified group,” he said. “They were together
for two months below and they’ll be together afterward. They
will stick together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  