-- Chilean Peso Reaches Strongest Level Since 2008 as Copper Price Increases
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-10-12T17:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/chilean-peso-reaches-highest-since-2008-as-copper-strengthens.html
Chile’s peso gained to a 28-month
high after copper rose and U.S. stocks trimmed losses.  The peso climbed 1.2 percent to 476.13 per dollar at 1:02
p.m. New York time, the strongest level since May 26, 2008, from
482.08 on Oct. 8, after a trading holiday yesterday.  Copper for December delivery gained as much as 0.5 percent
to $3.8095 a pound today after  Diego Hernandez , chief executive
of Chile’s state-owned copper miner Codelco, warned of a
“tighter” market for the metal next year. Chile is the world’s
biggest exporter of copper, and Codelco is the world’s largest
producer.  The peso’s gain today “coincides with the pick-up in U.S.
equities and copper prices,” said  Katia Diaz , an economist at
4Cast Inc. in New York. “It broke through the 480 per dollar
support level.”  U.S. stocks trimmed earlier losses as shares in finance
companies  led by  American Express Co. and Bank of America Corp.
gained. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 0.3 percent, after
retracing a 0.9 percent decline.  The Chilean currency has gained in 14 of the past 16
trading sessions on the expectation that Chile’s central bank
will keep raising interest rates, and in the absence of
intervention by policy makers. Chile has no plans to implement
capital controls to curb gains by the peso, Finance Minister
 Felipe Larrain  said on Oct. 8 in an interview published after
peso trading had closed.  ‘Positive Reaction’  “We would expect to see a positive reaction in the peso
today after Minister Larrain’s comments,”  Alejandro Estevez- Breton , head of rates research at Banco Santander SA in New
York, wrote today in a note to clients.  Foreign investors in the forwards market are betting on the
Chilean peso to outperform the dollar for the first time since
the central bank began publishing daily data in October 2008.
They trimmed their net long position in Chilean pesos to $408
million on Oct. 7, according to the most recent data available.  “The tendency is for the dollar to keep weakening as any
negative news may cause a rebound, but it won’t change the
trend,” said Andres de la Cerda, a trader at Bice Inversiones
in Santiago. “If there wasn’t concern about intervention, we’d
be 10 pesos lower.”  The last time the central bank intervened in the currency,
in April 2008, it announced its plans after the policy
committee’s monthly meeting. Central bank policy makers next
meet on Oct. 14. They will probably slow the pace of their
monthly rate hikes, increasing the benchmark rate by 25 basis
points to 2.75 percent, according to 10 of the 19 economists in
a Bloomberg  survey .  The three-month interest rate swap rate rose three basis
points to 3.03 percent. That implies traders expect a 25-basis-
point interest-rate increase at each of the bank’s next four
monthly meetings, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The one-year interest-rate swap yield declined five basis
points to 3.69 percent. The two-year swap yield slid seven basis
points to 4.06 percent, as traders trimmed expectations for
future interest rates.  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  