-- China's Stocks Rebound After Energy, Metal Producers Rally for Third Day
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-12T06:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/china-s-stocks-drop-on-concern-about-tightening-policies-commodity-prices.html
China stocks  rose to a five-month
high as commodity producers and automakers gained on prospects
for higher metals prices and improved earnings, overshadowing
declines by banks on concern about lending restrictions.  Jiangxi Copper Co. and Zijin Mining Group Co. surged more
than 6 percent as possible U.S. measures to boost its economy
may weaken the dollar and spur inflows into commodities.  SAIC
Motor Corp.  rose the most in a month after forecasting higher
profit.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and China
Construction Bank Corp. fell at least 1 percent after the
central bank temporarily raised reserve requirements for six
lenders, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  “Low valuations and better-than-expected earnings have
fuelled the rally for auto stocks. Commodity stocks have room
for a further 20 percent and 30 percent gain as liquidity is
abundant,” said  Wang Zheng , chief investment officer at Jingxi
Investment Management Co. in Shanghai. “Policy makers continue
to use quantitative tools to control credit growth and prevent
the economy from growing too fast.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 26.25, or 0.9 percent,
to 2,833.19 as of 2:09 p.m., the highest since May 5. It rose
yesterday to the highest since May 5 on prospects central banks
globally will inject money into economies to bolster growth. The
 CSI 300 Index  rose 1.2 percent to 3,170.84. Investors traded
29.3 billion  shares  on domestic stock exchanges yesterday, the
most since Dec. 4, 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Shanghai index has climbed 20 percent from this year’s
low on July 5 on the prospect China’s economic growth will
quicken. The measure is still down 14 percent this year, Asia’s
worst performer, as the government imposed tightening measures
ranging from restrictions on multi-house purchases to a 22
percent cutback on annual new lending by banks.  Commodity Gains  Gauges of energy and material stocks have jumped 20 percent
and 13 percent respectively this month, the best two performers
among the 10 industry groups in the CSI 300.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
advanced 6.9 percent to 40.25 yuan, heading for the highest
level since Jan. 7. Zijin Mining, the nation’s largest gold
producer, jumped the 10 percent daily limit to 9.47 yuan, a
seventh day of gains.  Copper futures for delivery in December rose 0.4 percent to
close at $3.7895 a pound in New York yesterday. Earlier, prices
touched $3.82, the highest level since July 8, 2008. Gold added
0.7 percent to settle at a record $1,354.40 an ounce.  Job losses will lead the Fed to increase Treasury purchases
at its meeting next month, UBS AG said. The Federal Open Market
Committee will announce plans to buy $35 billion to $65 billion
of debt a month at the Nov. 2-3 session,  Mansoor Mohi-uddin ,
head of global currency strategy in Singapore, wrote to clients.  Auto Stocks  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. , the listed unit of China’s fourth-
biggest coal miner, surged the maximum 10 percent for a third
day to 24.43 yuan. Yanzhou Coal was among the top pick for
China’s coal stocks because of low valuations and the outlook
for further quantitative easing measures by global central banks,
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. said in a note yesterday.  SAIC, China’s largest carmaker, jumped 7.9 percent to 18.59
yuan, set for the highest close since Jan. 6. The company said
its net income may have risen more than 140 percent in the first
nine months of the year from a year earlier after vehicle sales
increased more than 36 percent. Xinhua News reported auto sales
in China may reach 17 million units this year, up 25 percent
from last year.  FAW Car Co. , which makes passenger cars in China with
Volkswagen AG, rose 3.8 percent to 20.55 yuan. Chongqing Changan
Automobile Co., the partner of Ford Motor Co. and Mazda Motor
Corp., added 3.1 percent to 12 yuan.  Bank Lending  ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, retreated 1
percent to 4.16 yuan. Construction Bank, the second largest,
slipped 1.1 percent to 4.71 yuan.  Bank of China Ltd. , the third
largest, slid 1.2 percent to 3.38 yuan.  The reserve ratio requirement will increase by half a
percentage point for two months at ICBC, Construction Bank, Bank
of China, Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., China Merchants Bank
Co. and China Minsheng Banking Corp., the people said, declining
to be identified because no public announcement has been made.  Boosting the amount of money banks must hold as reserves
will lock up about 200 billion yuan ($30 billion) that otherwise
could be used for lending, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated.
The move suggests the People’s Bank of China is increasing
pressure on the country’s biggest banks to rein in credit,
according to Goldman Sachs.  China’s reserve ratio currently stands at 17 percent for
ICBC, Construction Bank, AgriBank and Bank of China. Reuters
reported the reserve rate increase yesterday, citing people it
didn’t identify. PBOC officials declined to comment, as did
spokespeople for the six banks.  Tightening Policy  “It’s a signal that it’s not time for the government to
relax monetary policies,” said  Zhang Qi , an analyst at Haitong
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Tightening policies may be in
place for a while.”  Chinese stocks are likely to rally by early next year, as
dividends are offering higher yields than those on U.S. Treasury
bonds for the first time since February 2009, according to UBS
AG.  “Currently, the Chinese equity market on average generates
more returns on dividends than the U.S. 10-year bond yield,”
 John Tang , UBS’s Hong Kong-based strategist, wrote in a report.
“The last time when the dividend spread became positive in the
fourth quarter of 2008, the MSCI China bottomed and was then
followed by a big rally for the next six months.”  The Shanghai Composite may extend its gain after surpassing
resistance levels, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. and CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd.  Break Resistance  “The Shanghai Composite Index has been doing very well
since the break and broke a few resistance levels lately,”
 Kenneth Chan , senior quantitative analyst at Nomura
International (Hong Kong) Ltd., said in e-mailed comments. “As
long as buying volume remains significant, there should be
further upside.”  The measure may rally to the next resistance level at
around 2,891 after a breakout above a “flat trading range,”
Chan said. Still, the market is getting “slightly overbought”
as the measure’s 14-day  relative-strength index  reading rose to
70.9 at yesterday’s close, he said. Some traders interpret
readings above 70 as a signal the security is poised to drop.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  