-- China Stock Rally `Sustainable,' Will Chase Region, Mobius Says
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-10-12T23:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/china-s-stock-rally-sustainable-after-entering-bull-market-mobius-says.html
China stocks  will extend their rally
after entering a bull market yesterday as investors increase
purchases in a market that lagged behind gains in Asia,
according to Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius .  “It’s going to continue, yes, it’s sustainable,” Mobius,
who oversees about $40 billion as chairman of Templeton’s
emerging markets group, said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur.
“People will say ‘hey, Malaysia’s gone up, Indonesia’s gone up,
now let’s go to China,’ it’ll get rotation.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  is Asia’s worst performer this
year, with a 13 percent decline as the government boosted
measures to slow the economy and cool property prices. At the
same time, Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  has rallied 40
percent, Thailand’s  SET Index  has jumped 33 percent and
Malaysia’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has risen 17 percent.  The Chinese gauge has rebounded 20 percent from the 2010
low on July 5, the threshold some investors consider the
beginning of a bull market, on signs the nation’s economic
growth will remain resilient and the yuan will continue to
strengthen.  “China now is going to start picking up because the rest
of the world is picking up,” Mobius said. “That’s what will
happen, because China’s been behind.”  China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four
months in September, while industrial output rose 13.9 percent
in August, exceeding economists’ estimates. Citing the economy’s
outlook, Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 8 put the nation’s
debt rating on review for a possible upgrade. The yuan has
gained 2.3 percent this year.  Fund Flows  Mobius told reporters in Kuala Lumpur yesterday that the
flow of funds into Asia is “sustainable, but with corrections
along the way.”  “The valuations are not excessive. We’re not seeing the
kind of things we saw during the dot-com boom, where nobody
really cared about earnings, they cared about the spending,” he
said. “It’s sustainable, because countries growing at 10
percent means that earnings for companies are growing at least
that much, probably double that.”  Overseas investors pumped the most cash into emerging-
market equities since late 2007 in October and Asia bond funds
attracted more capital on further signs growth in developed
nations is slowing, according to EPFR Global on Oct. 8.  The equity funds received net inflows of more than $6
billion in the week ended Oct. 6, the biggest amount in 33
months, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company said
in an e-mailed  statement . Investors added $1.1 billion to funds
dedicated to emerging-market debt, it said.  Inflows are breaking records since EPFR started tracking
the data in 1995 on speculation central banks will join Japan’s
monetary easing, releasing more capital that can be invested in
higher-yielding assets.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  