-- China Stocks May Extend Gains, Nomura Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-12T00:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/china-stocks-may-rally-through-resistance-nomura-says-technical-analysis.html
  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index may
extend the biggest two-day rally in a year after surpassing
resistance levels, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. and CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd.  The gauge, tracking the larger of the nation’s exchanges,
gained 2.5 percent to 2,806.94 yesterday, adding to a 3.1
percent advance on Oct. 8. China’s stock exchanges were closed
Oct. 1 to Oct. 7 for the National Day holiday.  “The Shanghai Composite Index has been doing very well
since the break and broke a few resistance levels lately,”  Kenneth Chan , senior quantitative analyst at Nomura
International   Hong Kong ) Ltd., said in e-mailed comments. “As
long as buying volume remains significant, there should be
further upside.”  The Shanghai index has climbed 19 percent since this year’s
low on July 5, paring its annual loss to 14 percent. Investors
traded 29.3 billion shares on China’s domestic stock exchanges
Oct. 11, the most since Dec. 4, 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Stocks have rallied the past two days on the
outlook for further gains for the yuan and the prospect U.S.
measures to boost the economy may weaken the dollar and make
commodities more attractive as investments.  The measure may rally to the next resistance level at
around 2,891 after a breakout above a “flat trading range,”
Chan said. Still, the market is getting “slightly overbought”
as the measure’s 14-day relative-strength index reading rose to
70.9 at yesterday’s close, he said. Some traders interpret
readings above 70 as a signal the security is poised to drop.  A breakout above 2,950 would see the measure test its
medium- to longer-term high of 3,478, Koh Seh Siang, analyst at
CIMB, said in e-mailed comments.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security.
A resistance level is an area on a chart where sell orders may
be clustered.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  