-- China Said to Raise Reserve Ratio Requirement for ICBC, Five Other Banks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-12T03:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/china-said-to-raise-reserve-ratio-requirement-for-icbc-five-other-lenders.html
China’s central bank temporarily
raised  reserve requirements  for six lenders, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The reserve ratio requirement will increase by half a
percentage point for two months at  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. ,  China Construction Bank Corp. , Bank of China Ltd.,
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., China Merchants Bank Co. and
China Minsheng Banking Corp., the people said, declining to be
identified because no public announcement has been made.  Boosting the amount of money banks must hold as reserves
will lock up about 200 billion yuan ($30 billion) that otherwise
could be used for  lending , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated.
The move suggests the People’s Bank of China is increasing
pressure on the country’s  biggest banks  to rein in credit,
according to Goldman Sachs.  “The RRR hike is used as a clear signal to commercial
banks that the central bank is willing to take actions to
control lending as necessary,” Goldman Sachs economists  Yu Song 
and  Helen Qiao  wrote in a note today. “We believe the monetary
authorities will limit the amount of lending in the rest of the
year without suffocating the economy.”  China’s reserve ratio currently stands at 17 percent for
ICBC, Construction Bank, Agricultural Bank and Bank of China.
Reuters reported the reserve rate increase yesterday, citing
people it didn’t identify. PBOC officials declined to comment,
as did spokespeople for the six banks.  September Lending  The central bank aims to rein in  liquidity  and cap credit
expansion at 7.5 trillion yuan this year. Chinese banks advanced
5.7 trillion yuan of new loans in the first eight months,
according to the most recent PBOC data.  Official figures for September loan growth may be released
as early as today. Banks in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy probably extended 500 billion yuan of new loans last
month, compared with 545.2 billion yuan in August, according to
a survey of economists.  The China Securities Journal reported today that the
nation’s four largest lenders extended about 200 billion yuan of
new credit in September, with nine medium-sized banks advancing
102 billion yuan in the period.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 0.1 percent as
of 10:54 a.m. local time. ICBC dropped 0.8 percent in Hong Kong
and Bank of China lost 0.5 percent.  -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Li Yanping  in Beijing.
Editor:  Philip Lagerkranser   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  