-- China's Stocks Enter Bull Market as Shanghai Index Rises 20% From July Low
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-12T07:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/china-s-stocks-enter-bull-market-as-shanghai-index-rises-20-from-july-low.html
China’s stocks  entered a so-called
bull market as a rally for commodity producers and automakers on
improving earnings prospects drove the benchmark index to the
highest level in five months.  The  Shanghai Composite Index , the larger of China’s two
exchanges, rallied for a third day as the country’s shares
caught up with regional measures after a weeklong holiday from
Oct. 1 to Oct. 7. The index rose 1.2 percent to 2,841.41 at the
3 p.m. local time close, led by energy and metal producers.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. and Jiangxi Copper Co. both
advanced at or near their upper limit of 10 percent on each of
the last three trading days. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Materials
Index  tracking commodity producers rose 4.5 percent when China’s
market was closed for the holiday. Banks dropped today after
reports China acted to rein in lending to cool its economy.  “The index may rise to 3,000 in the foreseeable future,”
said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities Holdings
Co. in Shanghai. “Should the market digest possible forthcoming
real-estate tightening measures and increased supply of new
stocks in coming months, we’ll definitely be in a bull market.”  The Shanghai gauge has gained 20 percent from the 2010 low
on July 5, surpassing the threshold some investors consider the
beginning of a bull market. It entered a bear market in May as
the government introduced measures to rein in real-estate prices
and cut the annual new lending target by 22 percent this year.  Energy and metal producers have also rallied the past three
days on speculation possible U.S. economic measures will weaken
the dollar and make commodities more attractive investments.  Measures of energy and material stocks  have jumped 19
percent and 13 percent respectively this month, the best two
performers among the 10 industry groups in the CSI 300 Index.
The broader measure advanced 1.3 percent to 3,172.73 today,
adding to a three-day 8.1 percent rally.  Commodity Gains  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
advanced 6.1 percent to 39.94 yuan, the highest level since Jan.
12. Zijin Mining, the nation’s largest gold producer, jumped the
10 percent daily limit to 9.47 yuan, a seventh day of gains.  The prospect of quantitative easing is spurring rallies for
commodity producers as increasing the money supply may boost
inflation, Wu Kan, Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million, said yesterday.
Investors are buying energy and metal producers as a hedge
against a weaker dollar, he said.  U.S. job losses will lead the Federal Reserve to increase
Treasury purchases at its meeting next month, UBS AG said. The
Federal Open Market Committee will announce plans to buy $35
billion to $65 billion of debt a month at the Nov. 2-3 session,
 Mansoor Mohi-uddin , head of global currency strategy in
Singapore, wrote to clients.  Auto Stocks  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. , the listed unit of China’s fourth-
biggest coal miner, surged the maximum 10 percent for a third
day to 24.43 yuan. Yanzhou Coal was among the top pick for
China’s coal stocks because of low valuations and the outlook
for further quantitative easing measures by global central banks,
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. said in a note yesterday.  SAIC, China’s largest carmaker, jumped 10 percent to 18.95
yuan. The company said its net income may have risen more than
140 percent in the first nine months of the year from a year
earlier after vehicle sales increased more than 36 percent.
Xinhua News reported auto sales in China may reach 17 million
units this year, up 25 percent from last year.  FAW Car Co. , which makes passenger cars in China with
Volkswagen AG, rose 5.1 percent to 20.80 yuan. Chongqing Changan
Automobile Co., the partner of Ford Motor Co. and Mazda Motor
Corp., added 4.6 percent to 12.18 yuan.  Bank Lending  ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, retreated 0.2
percent to 4.19 yuan. Construction Bank, the second largest,
slipped 0.2 percent to 4.75 yuan.  The reserve ratio requirement will increase by half a
percentage point for two months at ICBC, Construction Bank, Bank
of China, Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., China Merchants Bank
Co. and China Minsheng Banking Corp., the people said, declining
to be identified because no public announcement has been made.  “It’s a signal that it’s not time for the government to
relax monetary policies,” said Zhang Qi, an analyst at Haitong
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Tightening policies may be in
place for a while.”  The market’s rebound from the July low reflects improved
prospects for the nation’s economy and speculation the yuan will
strengthen. China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace
in four months in September, while industrial output rose 13.9
percent in August, exceeding economists’ estimates. Citing the
economy’s outlook, Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 8 put the
nation’s debt rating on review for a possible upgrade.  Yuan forwards surged to the strongest level in more than
two years yesterday on speculation the government will allow the
currency to appreciate to meet the demands of trading partners.
China is facing mounting pressure from major trading partners
for a stronger yuan as officials in Washington repeat calls for
a gradual adjustment in both currencies and global trade flows.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editor:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  