-- China Bank-Ratio Rise Signals Officials Divided, Goldman Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-12T04:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/china-bank-ratio-rise-may-signal-officials-divided-on-policy-goldman-says.html
Chinese policy makers may be
divided over the pace of credit growth with  inflation  picking
up even as there are “downside” risks to economic growth,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  China’s central bank has raised the reserve requirements
for six banks for a two-month period, three people with
knowledge of the matter said. Such a “partial” increase
doesn’t require the approval of the State Council, China’s
cabinet, according to Goldman.  The step comes as policy makers attempt to rein in the
property market to avert a bubble and keep housing affordable.
While the government has tightened mortgage-lending rules,
broader credit growth so far this year is on pace to exceed
officials’ 2010 target. Both the  China Banking Regulatory
Commission  and People’s Bank of China guide lending.  “The required reserve ratio hike is used as a clear
signal to commercial banks that the central bank is willing
to take actions to control lending as necessary even ‘if’ the
CBRC is taking a back seat in credit controls,” Goldman
analysts  Yu Song  and  Helen Qiao  in Hong Kong wrote in today’s
report. The fact that the increase doesn’t apply to all banks
and wasn’t announced publicly “may also reflect the
significant uncertainties facing the economy and
disagreements among the views of policy makers,” they wrote.  Ratio Increase  The ratio will increase 50 basis points for Bank of
China Ltd., Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., China
Construction Bank Corp., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.,
 China Minsheng Banking Corp.  and  China Merchants Bank Co. ,
the people said, declining to be identified because no public
announcement has been made.  The current reserve ratio level is 17 percent for the
biggest banks and 15 percent for smaller ones. The People’s
Bank of China and the six banks declined to comment yesterday.  Chinese banks may have extended 500 billion yuan ($75
billion) in new local-currency loans last month, a Bloomberg
News survey of 18 economists shows. That would compare with
545 billion yuan in August. M2, the broadest measure of money
supply, may have climbed 18.9 percent in September from a
year earlier, according to economists’ median estimate.  Loan Guidance  China’s central bank has refrained from following
counterparts across Asia in raising interest rates this year
as the global economy pulled out of a recession and trade
recovered. Policy makers have instead relied on raising the
reserve ratio and using loan guidance to banks to tamp down
credit growth after a record 9.59 trillion yuan tally in 2009.
Regulators targeted 7.5 trillion yuan for  new loans  this year.  China is in no “hurry” to reduce consumer-price
inflation and will focus on pushing down housing prices to
strengthen the economic recovery, PBOC Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in Washington on Oct. 10. It may take two
years for the inflation rate to fall below 3 percent, from a
22-month high of 3.5 percent in August, he said.  “Since the fiscal and monetary expansion has already
got into effect, we cannot be very hurry to get inflation
under control,” said Zhou, speaking in English. “We have a
medium-term plan. I hope this medium-term plan is credible.”  Money Inflows  Analysts are split on the extent to which the central
bank’s move signals a tighter monetary policy.  Isaac Meng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP Paribas,
said that the central bank may have acted in anticipation of
extra money flowing into China because of quantitative easing
in the U.S. and investors betting on gains by the yuan.  He described it as a “moderate move towards
tightening” and said that benchmark interest rates may stay
on hold until the first quarter of next year.  Nomura Holdings Inc. said yesterday that rates may rise
as early as this quarter, with reserve ratios increasing
three more times next year.  The central bank’s move is a “response to strong
capital inflows” triggered by the nation’s growth, prospects
for gains by the yuan and quantitative easing by major
central banks, Nomura economists said in an e-mailed report.  At Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., economist  Shen Jianguang 
said the temporary nature of the reserve-ratio increase
signals that the People’s Bank of China hasn’t shifted stance.
A comment by HSBC Holdings Plc was headed “No policy U-
turn.”  -- Chris Anstey ,  Paul Panckhurst ,  Li Yanping . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Stephanie Phang .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Anstey  at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  