-- Chinachem Group Pays HK$1.63 Billion for Land in Hong Kong Amid Protests
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-10-12T09:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/chinachem-group-pays-hk-1-63-billion-for-residential-site-in-hong-kong.html
Hong Kong’s government today sold a
residential site for more than surveyors’ estimates, at an
auction interrupted by protesters demanding the government make
housing more affordable.  Closely held Chinachem Group bought the site in Kowloon
Tong district for HK$1.63 billion ($210 million), beating the
HK$1.54 billion median estimate of five surveyors in a Bloomberg
News survey. That equals HK$17,976 a square foot, according to
Centaline Property Agency Ltd., breaking a record for the
Kowloon Peninsula set by an adjacent site sold in August.  Placard-wielding demonstrators briefly interrupted the sale,
demanding curbs on home prices that have  surged  almost 50
percent since the start of 2009 on the back of record-low
mortgage rates and an influx of mainland Chinese buyers.  Kerry
Properties Ltd.  bought a smaller plot adjacent to the site sold
today for 26 percent above the median estimate in August, adding
to pressure on Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  to announce measures
in his policy address tomorrow to cool prices.  “What it shows is that the market isn’t as fearless as it
was before,” said  Francis Lun , general manager at Fulbright
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “I don’t see the property market
collapsing any time soon, but don’t expect it to rise as quickly
as it did before.”  Luxury Homes  Chinachem will build a 12-story residential complex with 48
units that it could sell for as much as HK$22,000 per square
foot, said  Shun-Mo Ng , the company’s sales director. The site on
Ede Road has a maximum buildable area of 8,424 square meters
(90,676 square feet).  “We’re very optimistic about property prices in this area,
so even though the price we paid is slightly high, we still
think this is a good investment,” Ng told reporters after the
auction. “There’s great demand for luxury housing in the market.
Irrespective of what the chief executive announces in his policy
address we still believe this will be a good investment.”  Midland Holdings Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest publicly traded
real-estate agency, estimates the development of the site could
fetch as much as HK$22,000 a square foot.  “Some of the newer second-hand apartments in the area are
already selling at HK$17,000 a square foot at the moment,”
 Alvin Lam , a surveyor at Midland, said before the auction. “It
normally takes four to five years to complete a development and
it’s safe to assume developers will aim to sell the project at
around HK$22,000 a square foot eventually.”  Rising Prices  Kerry, the builder controlled by the family of Malaysian
tycoon  Robert Kuok , in August bought the smaller plot for
HK$1.285 billion. That site set a per-square-foot record for the
Kowloon Peninsula of HK$16,587, according to Midland.  The government may introduce rent-to-own subsidized housing
amid a public outcry over surging home prices, the South China
Morning Post reported Sept. 16.  Today’s auction was the eighth by the government in the
financial year.  The number of secondary home sales in 10 of Hong Kong’s
biggest private housing estates jumped 79 percent to 61 last
week, according to Centaline. Home prices have surged almost 50
percent since the start of 2009, according to Centaline.  Most government land sales in recent years, including
today’s auction, have been triggered by developers who promised
to pay minimum amounts for sites on a list of available lots
under the so-called land application system. Regular government
land auctions have been partially resumed this year after they
were halted in 2004 to support falling home prices.  Hong Kong’s government defines luxury apartments as those
with an area of more than 1,000 square feet or valued at
HK$10 million or more.  “This shows that developers are still optimistic in the
luxury home market in Hong Kong,” said  Charles Chan , a Hong
Kong-based managing director at the valuation unit of Savills
Plc. “Property prices in Hong Kong are likely to remain at the
current high level in the next 12 to 18 months as interest rates
are still low and the Hong Kong dollar is depreciating” along
with the U.S. dollar to which it is pegged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  