-- Christie to Sell $1.4 Billion Transport Bond Amid Tunnel Doubts
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-12T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/christie-to-sell-1-4-billion-transport-bonds-as-hudson-tunnel-imperiled.html
New Jersey is set to issue $1.4
billion in Transportation Trust Fund Authority bonds Oct. 13 and
14, about a week after  James Simpson , the state’s transport
commissioner, said the infrastructure account is “broke” and
suspended 100 projects because of a lack of cash.  The sale, a combination of tax-free refinancing securities
and federally taxable Build America Bonds scheduled to mature in
December 2027, will raise about $900 million for the trust fund,
New Jersey’s primary account for highway and mass transit
projects, according to preliminary offering documents. The issue
follows Governor  Chris Christie ’s Oct. 7 cancellation of an $8.7
billion trans-Hudson rail tunnel intended to ease congestion
into Manhattan.  New Jersey will pay yields as much as 1 percentage point
higher than other U.S. state borrowers because of concern that
the fund may become insolvent, said  Daniel Solender , who
oversees $15 billion as head of municipal bond management at
Jersey City-based Lord Abbett & Co.  “The deal will do well if it’s priced cheaply but it’s got
a lot against them,” said  Mary Talbutt-Glassberg , vice
president at Devon, Pennsylvania-based Davidson Trust Co., which
manages more than $1 billion for wealthy clients and isn’t
participating in the sale. “The headlines are keeping investors
away” from New Jersey issues, she said.  U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said yesterday he
plans to continue discussions with Christie to salvage the
project, the largest of its kind in the nation, after the
governor agreed to a two-week review of options.  Reduced Build Americas  The Build Americas portion has been reduced to $929 million
from $991 million projected when the Trust Fund Authority
approved the transaction Sept. 2, according to the preliminary
offering document. The bonds are rated Aa3 or fourth-highest
investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service, which has
assigned a negative outlook on the debt.  Simpson last week suspended design work on about 100
projects paid for by the trust fund on concern that the offering
won’t raise enough to cover the costs of completion. Since then,
engineering firms have fired a dozen workers and will terminate
hundreds more if the suspensions last two weeks or longer, said
Joe Fiordaliso, president of the American Council of Engineering
Companies of New Jersey.  This will be the last bonding the  fund  can afford unless
revenue from a new source is steered into it, State Treasurer
 Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff  told state lawmakers during a hearing
Oct. 4. After this issue, the entire $895 million paid into the
fund annually will be needed to cover debt service on about $12
billion in outstanding borrowings through at least 2027, bond
documents show.  ‘Ponzi Scheme’  “The trust has $11 billion in outstanding bonds and that
number keeps going up,” Davidson’s Talbutt-Glassberg said.
“It’s like a Ponzi scheme.”  About $393 million of the proceeds will repay  New Jersey 
for advances from its general fund that covered the program’s
$125 million in ongoing monthly expenses, Sidamon-Eristoff said.
About $25 million more will be used to meet interest payments
due on the Build Americas, after accounting for the 35 percent
federal subsidy through June 15, 2011, according to the
preliminary official statement and data presented to the trust
fund authority.  The money that’s deposited in the Trust Fund will finance
transport expenses in the U.S.’s most-densely populated state
through February 2011, according to Sidamon-Eristoff.  Less Competition  New Jersey should benefit from a comparatively quiet week
in terms of competing sales volume, Solender said. Issuers are
scheduled to offer a total of $9 billion in bonds this week,
compared with  $13.4 billion  last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a good time to borrow,” Lord Abbett’s Solender
said. “They’re just going to be considerably higher than other
comparably rated debt.”  The deal, which relies on a successful refinancing to free
up debt-service capacity in the trust fund, is sensitive to
changes in  interest rates , Sidamon-Eristoff said during his Oct.
4 appearance before lawmakers.  A similar-sized debt sale by the authority in November
2008, with 15-year bonds was priced to yield 5.37 percent, or  56
basis points  above comparable maturity top-rated debt, according
to data from Municipal Market Advisors, an independent research
firm based in Concord, Massachusetts. A basis point is 0.01 of a
percentage point.  The securities traded Oct. 7 at an average yield of 3.41
percent, 37 basis points above MMA yields for debt  due in 2023 .  “Market conditions are changing constantly, but we fully
intend to get into the market on a schedule that means we can
achieve our goals,” William Quinn, a spokesman for the
treasurer, said in a telephone interview Oct. 8.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  CITY OF CHICAGO will issue $251 million in Midway Airport
revenue bonds this week. The debt for the second-busiest airport
in Illinois behind O’Hare International will include $88 million
in taxable Build America Bonds earmarked for construction.
Underwriters led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. will market the
securities, which carry ratings of A3 from Moody’s and A- from
both Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, all fourth above non-
investment grade. (Updated Oct. 12)  CITY OF LOS ANGELES WASTEWATER SYSTEM, which serves more
than 4 million people, will borrow $450.7 million this week,
including $186.7 million in taxable Build America Bonds and $80
million in taxable Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds. The
securities will be used to finance construction and improvement
of the wastewater collection and treatment system and refinance
outstanding debt. Underwriters led by Siebert Brandford Shank &
Co. will market the issue to investors, which is rated Aa2 by
Moody’s and AA by S&P, both third-highest, one level below the
AA+ grade from Fitch. (Updated Oct. 12)  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY, which
provides water and wastewater services to 600,000 people in
Washington, D.C., plans to sell $300 million of Build America
Bonds this week. The obligations are backed by revenue from
consumer water bills and will be used to preserve and upgrade
its water and wastewater systems. Underwriters led by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. will market the issue, which is rated Aa3 by Moody’s
and AA- by both S&P and Fitch, all fourth-highest. (Added Oct.
12)  CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION , the board that oversees
Chicago’s public-school system and its 409,279 students in
2009-2010, will issue $407.1 million in taxable debt this week.
The deal includes $257.1 million in Qualified School
Construction Bonds and $150 million in Build Americas. The
proceeds will pay for construction and renovation that will
relieve overcrowding in schools. Underwriters led by Loop
Capital Markets will market the QSCB issue. Siebert Brandford
Shank & Co. will lead underwriters in marketing the Build
Americas. The debt is rated Aa2 by Moody’s, third-highest, AA-
by S&P, fourth-highest, one level above Fitch’s A+ rating.
(Added Oct. 12)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net ;  Alexandra Harris  in New York, at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 