-- Citigroup Stops Using Foreclosure Law Firm Facing Florida Probe
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2010-10-12T16:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/citigroup-stops-using-foreclosure-law-firm-under-investigation-in-florida.html
Citigroup Inc.  said it stopped
steering foreclosure work to a Florida law firm whose court
filings to support home seizures are under investigation by the
state’s attorney general.  The bank, which is proceeding with seizures as some rivals
stop to recheck documents, had used the Law Offices of  David J. Stern  PA. Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum  said Aug. 10 it
is examining whether Stern and two other firms filed “ improper
documentation ” with the state’s courts to speed proceedings.  “Pending the outcome of the AG’s investigation, Citi is
not referring new matters to this firm,” the New York-based
bank said in an e-mailed statement. Citigroup services loans,
including for government-sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac. Stern “was approved by the GSEs during the
time in which it was retained by Citi,” the bank said.  Lawmakers, attorneys general and consumer groups have
pressed mortgage firms to follow  Bank of America Corp. , the
biggest U.S. lender, which last week suspended all foreclosures
to check whether faulty documents were used to confiscate homes.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage
unit froze seizures or evictions in Florida and 22 other states.
Citigroup said last week it doesn’t plan to join them.  McCollum’s office “hasn’t made any charges or allegations
of fault,” said Jeffrey Tew, an outside  attorney  for
Plantation, Florida-based Stern, who declined to discuss its
work for Citigroup. “I believe they’re a client. I can’t go
into any details.”  Didn’t Check  A Stern employee said she signed assignments of mortgage, a
document that shows the transfer of ownership, without checking
that the information was correct, according to a  May 2009
deposition  taken by  Thomas Ice  of Ice Legal PA, a law firm in
West Palm Beach, Florida. The employee, who described herself as
an operations manager at the law firm, said she didn’t
“verbally swear” when signing assignments.  The employee said she signed more than 100 foreclosure
documents, including affidavits and assignments, for two hours
each day. Under questioning from Ice, the employee said the
assignments of mortgage are checked by others at the firm and
that she didn’t read them.  “How much time do you spend examining each document before
you sign them?,” Ice asked.  “Very little,” the employee answered.  “Do you read the document?”  “No,” the employee said.  ‘Strong Training’  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, said in
an e-mailed statement Oct. 8 that it provides “strong
training” for its employees and periodically reviews document-
handling procedures within the company’s foreclosure group.  “At this point, we have no reason to believe our employees
haven’t been following our procedures, so we do not believe a
suspension is necessary,” it said.  In at least one recent case, Citigroup has used an
affidavit signed by the David J. Stern employee in an attempt to
foreclose, according to Ice. On Oct. 4, the bank presented a
February 2009 affidavit signed by the employee to get summary
judgment on a Charlotte County, Florida, homeowner, Ice said.
The case was postponed until next month, he said.  Attorneys general in about 40 states may announce this week
a joint probe of potentially faulty foreclosures at the largest
U.S. banks and mortgage firms, a person with direct knowledge of
the matter said Oct. 8.  Court Affidavits  Some lenders have acknowledged that employees may have
completed court affidavits without checking loan documents to
confirm the statements’ accuracy. In December, a GMAC employee
said in a deposition in a foreclosure case filed in West Palm
Beach, Florida, that his team of 13 people signed about 10,000
documents a month without verifying their accuracy.  Lenders took possession of a record 95,364 homes in August
and issued foreclosure filings to 338,836 homeowners, or one of
every 381 U.S. households, according to  RealtyTrac Inc. , an
Irvine, California-based data vendor.  Citigroup, which got a $45 billion bailout in 2008 amid
mounting mortgage losses, is about 12 percent-owned by U.S.
taxpayers.  David Axelrod , a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama ,
said Sunday on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program that a
moratorium on foreclosures would damage the housing market. He
said there are valid foreclosures that should proceed, and the
White House is urging the industry to get the situation
“unwound very, very quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  