-- Clearwire Said to Seek Up to $5 Billion in Spectrum Auction
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-13T20:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/clearwire-said-to-seek-up-to-5-billion-for-spectrum-at-t-sprint-may-bid.html
Clearwire Corp. , the high-speed
wireless carrier, is seeking to raise $2.5 billion to $5 billion
in a wireless-spectrum auction that has attracted telephone and
cable companies, said people with direct knowledge of the sale.  AT&T Inc. , Verizon Wireless, Deutsche Telekom AG, Time
Warner Cable Inc. and Clearwire’s majority owner,  Sprint Nextel
Corp. , are among potential buyers of the spectrum, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the process isn’t
public. The bidding is in its second round and being managed by
Deutsche Bank AG, they said. Clearwire shares surged as much as
11 percent.  The company said last month it is looking for additional
funds to fuel expansion, and has had discussions with potential
investors, including Deutsche Telekom’s U.S. wireless unit,  T-
Mobile USA Inc.  Clearwire will need about $2 billion by the
fourth quarter to fund its network construction early next year,
said  John Hodulik , an analyst at UBS AG in New York.  “There are big ramifications from this from a funding
standpoint,” said Hodulik, who has a “neutral” rating on
Clearwire. “If they get $5 billion, they could fund the
business without raising any extra capital.”  Clearwire rose 46 cents, or 6.8 percent, to $7.21 in Nasdaq
Stock Market  trading  at 4 p.m. New York time, the biggest gain
since March. The shares have gained 6.7 percent this year.
 Sprint , which owns more than half of the company, added 4 cents
to $4.63 on the New York Stock Exchange.  WiMax Technology  Clearwire, based in Kirkland, Washington, sells high-speed
wireless service under its own brand and through partners in 55
markets. Its WiMax technology is one kind of so-called fourth-
generation mobile service.  The company is selling up to 40 megahertz of spectrum per
market, a slice of its wireless capacity, one person said. A
value of 20 cents to 40 cents per megahertz of spectrum per U.S.
resident would reach the $2.5 billion to $5 billion price tag,
 Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in
Chicago, said in a research note today.  The lower end of that range would be in line with sales of
similar spectrum in Europe, she said. The company has an average
of 120 megahertz of spectrum in each market, she said.  Susan Johnston , a Clearwire spokeswoman;  Mark Siegel , an AT&T
spokesman;  Alex Dudley , a Time Warner Cable spokesman; Reid
Walker, a T-Mobile USA spokesman;  John Gallagher , a Deutsche
Bank spokesman, and  Marquett Smith , a Verizon Wireless
spokesman, declined to comment.  Bill White , a spokesman for
Sprint, didn’t provide comment.  Reducing Sprint Reliance  Clearwire’s 12 percent notes due in December 2015 rose 1.5
cents to a mid-price of 111 cents on the dollar, according to
New York-based brokerage firm R.W. Pressprich & Co. Clearwire
has about $2.5 billion of  bonds outstanding , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The sale may increase Clearwire’s independence from Sprint,
reducing a funding gap that some analysts put at about $2
billion going into next year. Sprint could use the cash it would
have invested in its unprofitable partner to pay down its own 
debt, Fritzsche said in the note.  Clearwire got $1.56 billion from Sprint and other investors
in 2009 to expand its high-speed network to 120 million people
by the end of this year. The company’s other shareholders
include  Google Inc. , Time Warner Cable and  Comcast Corp.   Clearwire may be giving up some of its competitive
advantage in the sale, Hodulik said. The company will be parting
with spectrum holdings, which can determine call quality,
coverage and data speeds for customers. Clearwire may also hurt
its bargaining position with Sprint, should the larger company
want to increase its Clearwire stake.  “Sprint is the logical buyer of these assets, and if you
sell them a big chunk of spectrum, your leverage decreases when
you get to the negotiating table,” Hodulik said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  