-- Clinton Heads to Belgrade for Talks on Kosovo, Serbia's EU Bid
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2010-10-12T13:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/clinton-heads-to-belgrade-for-talks-on-kosovo-serbia-s-eu-bid.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  arrived in Serbia today amid heightened security levels
for talks on Kosovo, a key issue to be resolved so the Balkan
nation can move forward in its bid to join the European Union.  With up to 5,000 Serbian police in the streets safeguarding
the guest, Clinton will discuss “some new ideas” with Serbian
officials on Kosovo and the region’s future in the EU, said
Vladimir Todoric of the New Policy Centre in Belgrade. Her first
meeting was with Serbian President  Boris Tadic .  Coming to terms with Kosovo, which unilaterally declared
independence from Serbia in early 2008, is a prerequisite for
Serbia’s membership to the bloc. Serbians see Kosovo as the
cultural cradle of their nation and the government has vowed
never to accept its independence.  “America is unavoidable in finding a solution for Kosovo,
which while being a European issue, cannot be bypassed since the
Americans hold the key to security policies there,” Todoric
said.  Since late August, Belgrade has agreed to talk to
authorities in Kosovo with the help of the EU and the U.S. Local
media list the future of Kosovo’s north dominated by non-
Albanians, Serb monasteries, and Kosovo’s membership of
international institutions as likely initial discussion topics
with Clinton.  ‘Fulfill the Goal’  Clinton, the second top U.S. official to come to Belgrade
in 16 months, arrived after a visit to Sarajevo this morning
where she called on Bosnians to make the political changes
needed to “fulfill the goal” of joining the EU and the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Her trip comes two days after violent street battles with
police and protesters trying to prevent the first Gay Pride
Parade in Serbia in almost a decade. The visit also occurs ahead
of a meeting by a Dutch parliamentary committee on Oct. 13 to
discuss whether to join other EU members and give the go-ahead
for Serbia’s next step toward the EU.  “Experience has shown that America has ways and powers to
participate in such a process,” Todoric said.  The U.S. has recognized Kosovo and is part of a NATO-led
peacekeeping force which has patrolled the country since the
pullout of Serbian troops in 1999 following a 78-day NATO
bombing campaign. Russia and China have opposed its
independence.  Arresting Bosnian Serb wartime commander  Ratko Mladic , the
most-wanted suspect from the 1990s Yugoslav conflicts remains
another key obstacle to Serbia’s EU integration. Mladic’s family
wants the 68-year-old man declared dead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
 Misha Savic  in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  