-- Coal India Plans Nation's Largest IPO as Asia Offerings Surge
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-10-13T09:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/coal-india-to-sell-stock-at-225-rupees-to-245-rupees-in-initial-share-sale.html
Coal India Ltd.  will sell as much as
151.54 billion rupees ($3.4 billion) of shares in the nation’s
biggest initial public offering, helping the government raise
funds to build roads and power plants as IPOs in Asia surge.  The world’s largest coal producer will offer stock at 225
rupees to 245 rupees apiece, Coal Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal 
said in New Delhi yesterday. The government is selling 631.6
million shares, according to a sale  document . Retail investors
and employees will be offered a 5 percent discount, said  Alok Perti , additional secretary in the coal ministry.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is tapping record investment
by overseas funds into Indian assets to raise as much as 400
billion rupees selling shares in companies this year to reduce
its budget deficit to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product and
fund infrastructure projects. The Coal India offer will help the
government raise 37.8 percent of its asset sale target. It has
raised 5.2 percent from two offers since April.  “Coal India warrants a place in every portfolio that is
looking at stability,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief
strategist at securities firm SMC Global Ltd. in New Delhi. “It
has all the makings of a quality investment.”  The IPO by Kolkata, West Bengal-based Coal India would
surpass  Reliance Power Ltd.’s  116 billion-rupee sale in January
2008 as India’s biggest, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The sale will start Oct. 18 and conclude Oct. 21, Chairman
 Partha Bhattacharyya  said Aug. 31.  World’s Largest  Companies from emerging economies in the Asia-Pacific
region raised $72 billion in initial sales this year, more than
triple the amount in the same period in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Beijing-based  Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd.  sold $22.1 billion of shares in Shanghai and Hong Kong last
quarter in the world’s biggest IPO on record.  More than 500 companies in the region have announced plans
to raise a combined $66 billion in IPOs, the data show. India’s
economic expansion is outstripping the U.S. by almost three
times, while China is the world’s fastest-growing major economy,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The surge in IPOs “reflects the strong growth that is
occurring in the Asian market,” said  Peter Jankovskis , who
helps oversee $2.2 billion as co-chief investment officer at
Oakbrook Investments in Lisle, Illinois. “You’ll probably see
more and more of the IPOs occurring over there.”  Malaysia, Singapore IPOs  Petronas Chemicals Bhd., the petrochemicals unit of
 Malaysia’s state oil company , may sell as much as $4 billion in
the Southeast Asian nation’s biggest IPO, two people familiar
with the matter said yesterday.  In the Asia-Pacific region’s developed markets, Global
Logistic Properties Ltd., the overseas warehousing unit of
Government of Singapore Investment Corp., this week set the
price of its share sale at S$1.96 each, putting it on course to
raise S$3.45 billion ($2.64 billion) in Singapore’s biggest IPO
since 1993.  Queensland plans to raise between A$3.66 billion ($3.6
billion) and A$5.05 billion selling shares of coal-train
operator QR National Ltd. in Australia’s largest IPO in more
than a decade, according to an offer document this week.  India will sell shares in  Steel Authority of India Ltd. ,
Indian Oil Corp. and  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  in the year ending
March 31 as part of its fund raising plan. The government said
in January it can sell shares in as many as 68 companies as it
seeks to shrink its budget deficit from an estimated 6.9 percent
last year.  Stock Market Rally  Indian companies have raised a record 795 billion rupees in
equity and rights sales this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The benchmark  Sensitive Index  has gained 16 percent
this year, making it the best performing index among the world’s
10 largest markets.  Overseas funds bought a net 11.1 billion rupees of Indian
equities on Oct. 11, extending this year’s record inflows to
998.7 billion rupees, according to the nation’s market regulator.  Citigroup Inc. , Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of America Corp.,
Enam Securities Pvt., Kotak Mahindra and  Morgan Stanley  will
manage Coal India’s offering.  Indian fund managers including  Nilesh Shah , deputy managing
director of equity investments at ICICI Prudential Asset
Management Co., and  Vikram Kotak , who oversees $4.5 billion in
assets as chief investment officer at Birla Sun Life Insurance
Co., may buy Coal India shares, they said at a conference in
Mumbai today.  The IPO price is “not costly,” said Kotak.  “The IPO should get fully subscribed at the least, and the
discount to retail investors helps,” said  Alex Mathews , head of
research at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd. in Kochi.
“Coal will continue to be India’s primary form of energy and
that will ensure demand continues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net  