-- Colombian Peso Falls on Bets of More Measures to Ease World-Beating Rally
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-10-12T19:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/colombian-peso-falls-on-bets-of-more-measures-to-ease-world-beating-rally.html
Colombia’s peso fell for the first
time in six days on speculation the government will take further
measures to ease the currency’s world-beating rally after
President  Juan Manuel Santos  called a meeting to discuss options
to stem the currency’s gains.  The peso declined 0.2 percent to 1,789.93 per dollar at
3:31 p.m. New York time, from 1,786.5 yesterday. It’s up 14.2
percent this year, the best performance among all currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Santos will meet with government officials tomorrow to
analyze options to stem gains in the peso, said a Finance
Ministry official who declined to be identified in accordance
with government policy. Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry 
will attend the meeting, the official said.  “The meeting would send a political signal and the market
is reacting to that,” said  Daniel Lozano , an analyst at
Medellin-based brokerage Serfinco SA.  Colombia’s central bank said Sept. 15 it will buy a minimum
of $20 million daily for at least four months, heeding a call
from Santos who asked policy makers in August to take “bold and
creative” action to ease the peso’s rally. Banco de la
Republica said yesterday it bought $240 million in the currency
market last month.  Still, “the peso is following a global trend and there is
little Banco de la Republica can do to fight it,” said Lozano.
“The most it can do is take measures that ease the pace of
gains.”  Cavallo, Kuczynski  A group of Colombian business associations including ANDI,
the country’s biggest, asked the government and central bank to
take further measures to ease the peso’s rally which “has
reached a point where it jeopardizes the Colombian economy’s
positive outlook,” according to a copy of the letter sent by e-
mail yesterday.  Among the measures, the business groups ask that officials
impose capital controls and increase dollar purchases in the
currency market.  Primera Pagina news service reported that Santos has also
invited former Argentine economy minister Domingo Cavallo and
ex-Peruvian prime minister Pedro-Pablo Kuczynski to the meeting
to offer advice. The Finance Ministry official contacted by
Bloomberg News said he didn’t know whether they would attend.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.03
percent, according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s
price fell 0.366 centavo to 127.351 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  