-- CFTC to Scrutinize Algorithmic Trading After May Market Plunge
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-10-12T20:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/commodity-regulator-to-review-algorithmic-trading-after-may-market-plunge.html
The top U.S. commodity regulator
will review algorithmic trading and other practices such as
“spoofing” and “quote stuffing” as part of the largest
rewrite of Wall Street rules since the 1930s.  The Dodd-Frank financial legislation may make it easier for
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to punish manipulation
and disruptive trading in markets for commodities such as oil,
wheat and natural gas.  “Weekly we hear concerns about high frequency traders and
how they are affecting the markets, positively and negatively,”
Commissioner  Michael Dunn  said at a meeting in Washington today.
“Phrases like ‘quote stuffing’ and ‘spoofing’ are bantered
about as ways that algorithmic traders are gaming the
marketplace.”  The legislation gave the commission broad authority to
punish and deter manipulation and other market abuses. The
market events of May 6, when the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
plunged as much as 998.50 points, highlighted the commission’s
efforts after algorithmic trading, or programs designed to
respond to market changes without human involvement, was
implicated in the crash.  The commission will review whether there is anything
“inherently disruptive” about algorithmic trading, said Robert
Pease, a trial attorney with the commission’s enforcement
division, today at the commission’s technology advisory
committee meeting in Washington.  Remaking Rules  “We as regulators have constantly had to remake our
regulations so that new technology can be used to benefit
investors and end-users and help best promote transparency and
efficiency in markets,” said Commission Chairman Gary Gensler .  Pease said the agency’s staff is examining strategies in
which traders submit and then cancel thousands of orders in
milliseconds. CFTC investigators want to know whether the
practice is a form of “spoofing” in which market participants
try to trick other computers into making decisions that can be
exploited for profit, Pease said.  The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, named for Massachusetts
Representative  Barney Frank  and Connecticut Senator  Christopher Dodd , both Democrats, attempts to relieve the  commission  of the
burden of proving a trader intended to manipulate prices.
Instead, the CFTC will have to show the trading was
“reckless.”  Richard Gorelick, chief executive officer of RGM Advisors
LLC, said regulators should tread carefully because any new
rules could eliminate “legitimate behaviors” that bring price
discovery and liquidity to markets.  Time Limits  Gorelick, whose Austin, Texas-based company is a high-
frequency trading firm, said he opposes proposals that would
require an order to stand for a certain amount of time before it
could be canceled.  Proving manipulation has challenged courts and lawmakers
since the early attempts to regulate U.S. commodity markets in
the 1920s. The financial overhaul of the $615 trillion
derivatives market, signed into law by President Barack Obama on
July 21, redraws rules that have been determined for decades by
a patchwork of case law.  Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events such as changes in interest rates or weather.
Futures are traded on regulated exchanges, while over-the-
counter contracts are privately negotiated.  Clearing Contracts  The  financial overhaul  will push most of the off-exchange
contracts to be processed, or cleared, through third-party
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or similar systems. All
trades will have to be reported to trade repositories, which
will allow regulators a view of the overall risk in the market.  On May 6, a trade of 75,000 of  CME  Group Inc.’s E-mini
futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was executed with an
algorithm that had no regard for prices or timing, according to
regulators’  findings .  The speed of the sale drove stocks down and prompted market
makers and high-frequency trading firms that facilitate the
majority of transactions to curb business out of concern they
were receiving incorrect or incomplete data, intensifying the
crash.  “We know regulators need to keep up with the high speed,
high volume trading that goes on today,” said Commissioner  Bart Chilton .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 