-- Cleopatra Comes to D.C. as Cyprus Show Fetes Aphrodite, Wine
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2010-10-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/conquering-cleopatra-comes-to-d-c-as-cyprus-show-salutes-aphrodite-wine.html
Queen Cleopatra clutches her son to
her breast. Since she emerged from a rolled-up carpet in front
of Julius Caesar, the Roman emperor fathered little Caesarion
and gave her the Mediterranean “island of love,” Cyprus.  Cleopatra’s proud image on a Cypriot bronze coin is
tarnished, a symbol of her rule and the history of the strategic
island that has been claimed by Greeks, Persians, Byzantines,
Romans, French, Venetians, Ottomans and the British.  The coin is a highlight of a show at the Smithsonian
 National Museum of Natural History  in Washington. The show
celebrates 50 years of independence for the Republic of Cyprus,
known for its wine, culture and erotic goddess Aphrodite, who
was born off the island’s western coast, according to legend.  “Visitors learn about Cyprus’s turbulent history and
culture,” Eleni Zapiti, who helped organize the show, said in
an interview. “The coins show the names of the respective
rulers, either kings or emperors.  “Minting in Cyprus began as early as the sixth century
B.C., a century after it was invented in the areas of Lydia and
Ionia in Asia Minor,” said Zapiti, curator of the Museum of the
History of Cypriot Coinage at the  Cultural Foundation  of the
Bank of Cyprus, the island’s largest lender.  “Cyprus: Crossroad of Civilizations” covers 12 millennia
and also includes jewelry, sphinx sculptures, Byzantine-period
lamps and medieval religious icons.  Suicide, Killing  The golden coins of Alexander the Great are followed by
Cleopatra’s bronze. Little does Cleopatra know that the pharaoh-
led rule is about to end: within two decades she will commit
suicide aged 39, 17-year-old Caesarion will be killed, Egypt
taken over by the Roman empire and a new era for civilization
will begin.  Until 330 A.D. Roman money was minted by Cypriots, and
inspired the modern Bank of Cyprus logo.  There are 22 coins showing Cypriot city-kingdoms including
Salamis (a sixth-century silver siglos and a fourth-century
golden image of Greek King Nicocles) and Kition (on a fourth-
century golden coin of Phoenician King Pumayyaton).  A cup-shaped electrum coin of Isaac Comnenus, who declared
himself independent from his liege in Constantinople and lost
his kingdom to crusader King Richard the Lionheart in 1191,
marks the end of Byzantine rule. The Frankish era, in which
Cyprus was ruled by the Lusignans, the crusader kings of
Jerusalem, began a year later and is represented by eight coins
including a “rare gros of James II” riding his horse,
according to Zapiti.  “The show ends with a bronze coin minted by the Venetian
defender of Cyprus Marcantonio Bragadin,” before the island
fell to the Ottomans in 1571, Zapiti said.  The exhibition is accompanied by lectures on wine, Cypriot
pets and mythology.  “Cyprus: Crossroads of Civilizations,” inaugurated by
Cyprus President  Demetris Christofias , is on view through May 1,
2011. Information:  http://www.mnh.si.edu/exhibits/   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stelios Orphanides  through the Athens office at
   sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 