-- Constellation Nuclear-Loan Pullout Tests Obama Resolve to Revive Industry
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2010-10-12T14:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/constellation-nuclear-loan-guarantee-pullout-tests-obama-s-taste-for-risk.html
A U.S. loan-guarantee program is
testing how much risk the Obama administration is willing to
take to revive the nuclear-power industry.  Constellation Energy Group Inc.  said last week it was
pulling out of talks on a $7.5 billion loan guarantee to build a
reactor at its Calvert Cliffs facility in Maryland. The
estimated $880 million the company would have to pay the
Treasury Department was “shockingly high,” Chief Operating
Officer  Michael Wallace  said in an Oct. 8 letter to the Energy
Department.  The administration offered terms no better than
Constellation could get from private investors, said  Christine Tezak , a senior energy and environment analyst for Robert W.
Baird & Co., a Milwaukee-based brokerage.  “The fact that there seems to be a focus that these
projects be very low in terms of financial risk seems
counterproductive,” Tezak said in an interview yesterday.  The Energy Department has authority to provide $18.5
billion in guarantees to nuclear-power producers, serving
effectively as a co-signer to help utilities get financing. The
only award so far was to  Southern Co.  of Atlanta and its
partners, which are getting an estimated $8.3 billion in federal
backing for a project in Georgia. Southern hasn’t disclosed an
estimate of the cost for its federal guarantee.  President  Barack Obama  has called for an increase to $54
billion in loan guarantees. The U.S. needs a “new generation of
clean, safe nuclear power plants,” Obama said in his State of
the Union address Jan. 27. Nuclear plants don’t release carbon
dioxide linked to global warming.  ‘Mitigate That Risk’  The administration must weigh its support for nuclear power
against limiting the risk that taxpayers will be stuck with the
bill should a nuclear utility default,  Kenneth Baer , a spokesman
for the administration’s Office of Management and Budget, said
in an interview.  “Our job is to mitigate that risk to the degree we
possibly can, while also understanding that there also is the
goal of getting these projects off the ground,” Baer said. The
budget office negotiates the terms of loan guarantees along with
the Energy Department.  Constellation’s decision to cut off talks during
negotiations surprised administration officials, Baer said.  The administration considers revitalizing the nuclear
industry a “crucial part of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions
and creating jobs in growing sectors of the economy,” Baer
said.  NRG’s Prospects  Constellation’s decision places  NRG Energy Inc. , a
Princeton, New Jersey-based power producer, in the lead for the
next loan-guarantee award,  Charles Fishman , an analyst at
 Pritchard Capital Partners LLC  in Falls Church, Virginia, said
in a note to investors yesterday.  “However, if the fees are this large, it might be a
victory that NRG and its partners will also not necessarily
want, dooming that project too,” Fishman wrote.  Constellation was unchanged at $32.30 at 10:24 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. NRG shares fell 14 cents
to $21.  NRG is seeking a guarantee to add two units at its South
Texas power plant in Matagorda County. The company has sought to
reduce project risks by choosing a reactor design already used
in Japan and certified in the U.S,  Dave Knox , an NRG spokesman,
said. The company is also securing Japanese government
financing, he said.  “We’re very confident already about the loan guarantee,”
Knox said in a telephone interview. The talks haven’t yet turned
to how much NRG would have to pay, he said.  Constellation, EDF  Constellation of Baltimore was teamed with  Electricite de
France SA , Europe’s biggest utility, to build the Calvert Cliffs
reactor. The companies had been discussing ways to resolve a
dispute over an option Constellation has to sell non-nuclear
plants to  EDF  for as much as $2 billion.  Constellation’s decision to back away from the loan-
guarantee negotiations may signal it wants to force EDF to
purchase those assets, said  Ingo Becker , head of utilities-
sector research at Kepler Capital Markets in Frankfurt.  EDF, the largest shareholder in Constellation, would
support the sale of the company as relations between the
partners sour, said a person with knowledge of the matter who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. A
spokeswoman for EDF and a spokesman for Constellation declined
to comment.  Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat who heads the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, criticized the
administration’s handling of the loan-guarantee program at a
hearing of the panel on Sept. 23.  ‘Larger Role’  The guarantees should fulfill a “larger role” in taking
on risk the private sector wouldn’t tackle to “encourage
companies to manufacture and create jobs here rather than being
enticed to go somewhere else to manufacture and create jobs,”
Bingaman said.  Southern Co. isn’t the only company that says it’s
committed to building nuclear-power plants.  Scana Corp.  plans to
build two reactors at its Virgil C. Summer plant in South
Carolina.  While the company has applied for a loan guarantee, the
project isn’t contingent on securing federal help, Chief
Financial Officer  Jimmy Addison  said yesterday in an interview.  Scana of Columbia, South Carolina, had sold about $1
billion in shares and bonds to finance the investment, Addison
said.  Santee Cooper  Santee Cooper, South Carolina’s state-owned electric and
water utility and a partner with Scana, said the loan guarantee
process is “pretty expensive” and the federal aid may not be
necessary after a drop in interest rates on corporate debt,
according to Chief Operating Officer  William McCall .  Southern and Scana operate in regulated markets with
customers to buy the power. Constellation would sell its power
in a deregulated market where it wasn’t assured a return on its
investment, raising its risk, Tezak of Baird said.  Congress may need to do more to encourage nuclear-power
projects by passing climate-change legislation putting a price
on carbon emissions or including nuclear energy in a federal
standard requiring the use of renewable energy, Tezak said.
Obama-backed energy legislation on both themes stalled in the
Senate this year.  Low natural-gas prices also make nuclear plants less
competitive, she said.  “There are a number of things that needed to happen, which
one-by-one dissipated as we look at the nuclear renaissance,”
Tezak said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 