-- Consumer Confidence Slides for Third Month, Adding to Signs of Slowdown
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-10-12T05:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/consumer-confidence-slides-for-third-month-adding-to-signs-of-slowdown.html
Japanese household sentiment slid
for a third month in September, adding to signs of a slowdown in
domestic demand.  The  confidence index  dropped to 41.2 from 42.4 in August,
the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo. A number blow 50 means
pessimists outnumber optimists.  Today’s report underscores concern that personal
consumption will slow in the coming months as government
stimulus measures aimed at encouraging consumers to buy cars and
electronics fade. Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s Cabinet last week
endorsed a 5.1 trillion yen ($62 billion) stimulus plan to
safeguard the recovery and help local governments and small
businesses cope with the surging yen.  “Consumer sentiment could weaken” as previous stimulus
steps wear off,  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo,
said before the report. ”Still, a large deterioration is
unlikely as employment and incomes are picking up.”  Recent data show that factory output unexpectedly fell in
August, large manufacturers are expecting business conditions to
deteriorate toward the end of the year, and the nation’s car
sales dropped in September for the first time in 14 months. A
program that provides people with subsidies to buy energy-
efficient cars ended in September.  The Japanese currency rose to a 15-year high against the
dollar yesterday and has advanced more than 10 percent this year,
threatening the profits of exporters who have driven the
nation’s recovery. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  has declined
almost 11 percent so far in 2010 as the currency’s strength
tempers the outlook for corporate earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  