-- Copper Market Will Get ‘Tighter,’ Codelco CEO Says
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-10-12T16:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/copper-market-will-get-tighter-next-year-codelco-ceo-says.html
Codelco, the world’s biggest copper
producer, expects a “tighter” market for the metal next year
because of continued demand from China and a lack of new supply.  “China is continuing to have a strong demand and from the
supply side we have only a couple of new projects coming on-
stream,” Codelco Chief Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said
today in an interview in London. The company is selling “a
little more” than 40 percent of its copper to China, he said.  Copper surged to a 27-month high yesterday on speculation
that the Federal Reserve will increase measures to stimulate the
U.S. economy, weakening the dollar and boosting demand for
commodities as alternative investments. Prices will need to
remain higher than in the past for metals producers to cope with
rising costs and lower ore quality, according to Hernandez.  Codelco, which supplies about 10 percent of the world’s
mined copper, will spend $15 billion over the next five years to
revamp mines, some of which are a century old. The Santiago-
based company is expanding its Andina, El Teniente and Norte
mining divisions in Chile and accelerating development of the
new Quetena project after four years of declining output.  Mining companies need a long-term average price of about
$6,500 a metric ton, or $2.95 a pound, to develop new copper
mines because deposits of the metal are becoming more expensive
to develop and run, Hernandez said.  Goldman Sachs Forecast  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased its estimate for copper
prices to $11,000 a metric ton by the end of next year. Copper
has “the strongest fundamentals” because of low inventories,
 Jeffrey Currie , Goldman’s head of commodities research, said at
a conference in London Oct. 6.  “This year supply and demand have been quite tight and I
think that next year should be the same or even a little
tighter,” Hernandez said.  Some Chinese buyers of the metal may be accumulating
stockpiles of the metal to sell later for a profit, Hernandez
said. The trend may cause short-term price fluctuations, he
said. Prices in the “longer-term” will reflect supply and
demand, he said.  Copper for delivery in December rose 0.5 percent to $3.80 a
pound at 11:39 a.m. on the Comex in New York. Prices yesterday
touched the highest level since July 8, 2008. Copper for
delivery in three months slipped 0.1 percent to $8,283 a metric
ton on the London Metal Exchange.  Codelco Borrowing  Chile’s government has authorized Codelco to sell as much
as $1.8 billion in a planned bond sale that the company will
“partially” exercise in four to five weeks. The proceeds will
be used to replace short-term debt with long-term debt and to
fund investments, he said.  Next year, Codelco expects to raise about $1 billion by
selling assets including its stake in Chilean power generator E-
CL SA.  The company  will spend  about $26 billion from 2009 to 2019,
the same amount spent in the 33 previous years to 2008, Chairman
 Gerardo Jofre  said in a presentation on Oct. 5.  Hernandez, 61, was appointed head of Codelco by Chilean
President  Sebastian Pinera  in April, replacing  Jose Pablo Arellano . Hernandez is a former Vale SA and BHP Billiton Ltd.
executive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  