-- Corn Jumps to Two-Year High, Soybeans Gain as Tighter Supply Spurs Demand
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-10-12T19:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/corn-soybeans-rise-for-fourth-session-as-tighter-u-s-supply-spurs-demand.html
Corn jumped to a two-year high and
soybeans rose for a fourth session as processors buy more
inventory amid signs that the U.S. will produce smaller crops
than forecast in September.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture on Oct. 8 cut its corn-
crop estimate for the second time in as many months, predicting
a 3.4 percent drop in the domestic harvest. While farmers will
collect the most soybeans ever, the total will be 2.2 percent
less than forecast in September, the USDA said. China will boost
soybean  imports  65 percent in October from a year ago.  “U.S. production probably will decline further, as USDA
yield estimates in Iowa and Minnesota are too high,” said  Jerry Gidel , a market analyst for North American Risk Management
Services Inc., in Chicago. “Consumers are panic stricken and
buying on any price weakness.”  Corn futures for December delivery rose 23.25 cents, or 4.2
percent, to close at $5.79 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of trade, capping a 19 percent rally over the past four
sessions. Earlier, the price touched $5.8425, the highest level
since August 2008.  Soybean futures for November delivery rose 26 cents, or 2.3
percent, to close at $11.785 a bushel in Chicago, bringing the
gain over four sessions to 11 percent, including a 16-month high
of $11.8875 yesterday.  South American Crops  Prices also rose as dry weather is delaying sowing of crops
in parts of Brazil and Argentina, the biggest exporters of corn
and soybeans after the U.S., said  James Bower , the president of
Bower Trading Inc. in Lafayette, Indiana.  A dry spell in Brazil’s Center-South and irregular rains in
the South due to the La Nina weather pattern may pare yields and
make the soil too dry to plant, the Agriculture Ministry’s crop-
forecasting agency said Oct. 7.  Cooling equatorial waters in the Pacific Ocean and other
weather anomalies point to a strong La Nina in October, the
 Commodity Weather Group LLC  said in a report to clients last
week. That usually means dry weather in Argentina and parts of
Uruguay, Paraguay and southern Brazil.  “Today marks a shift to concerns about the South American
growing season,” Bower said. “Planting progress is getting
behind,” threatening yield potential, Bower said.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion last
year, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 