-- Credit-Default Swaps on J.C. Penney Rise on Concern Over Credit Profile
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-12T23:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/credit-default-swaps-on-j-c-penney-rise-after-ackman-purchases-shares.html
Credit-default swaps on J.C. Penney
Co. jumped to the highest since April 2009 on concern that
recent stake purchases by Pershing Square Capital Management LP
and Vornado Realty Trust could change the company’s credit
profile.  The cost to protect against losses on J.C. Penney bonds
jumped 36.5 basis points to a mid-price of 279.8 at 5:03 p.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA. The contracts surged
50 basis points on Oct. 7 and Oct. 8 as activist investor
 William Ackman ’s Pershing Square disclosed its stake, according
to  George Ashur , managing director of credit strategy at Societe
Generale.  “There’s a lot of anticipation, a lot of speculation: what
does he want, what’s he going to do,” Ashur said of Ackman.
“The CDS have moved out rather significantly, reflecting the
market uncertainty concerning where debt levels will settle,
what strategy might be adopted that might change the profile of
the company that might adversely affect the credit.”  Pershing Square disclosed a 16.5 percent stake in Plano,
Texas-based J.C. Penney on Oct. 8. The hedge-fund firm plans to
engage in talks with J.C. Penney’s board and managers regarding
the company’s performance, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. In a separate filing,
Vornado said it acquired a 9.9 percent stake.  ‘Rarely Good News’  “As bondholders recently saw with the Pactiv buyout,
leveraged acquisitions are rarely good news for holders of high
grade bonds,”  Adam Cohen , founder of Covenant Review LLC, wrote
in a note Oct. 8. Covenant Review is an independent credit
research firm that analyzes corporate bonds’ investor
safeguards.  Pactiv, the maker of Hefty trash bags, is being purchased
by Rank Group Ltd. for about $4.5 billion and the assumption of
$1.5 billion in debt. Its 7.95 percent bonds due in December
2025 traded at 96 cents on the dollar before Pactiv agreed to
the takeover in August and ended today at 89 cents, according to
Trace, the bond price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Swaps on  Fortune Brands Inc.  also jumped, climbing 18.9
basis points to 188.1, the highest since Sept. 2009, according
to CMA. Pershing Square took an 11 percent stake in Fortune
Brands.  Ackman buys stock in companies he deems undervalued,
particularly in the retail, restaurant and real estate
industries, and urges changes he says will boost shareholder
returns. He pushed for a share buyback at Target Corp. in 2007
and lobbied restaurant chain Wendy’s International Inc. to sell
land after acquiring a 9.3 percent stake. Shares in J.C. Penney,
whose sales fell 45 percent in the past decade, have lost more
than half their value since peaking at $86.35 in February 2007.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index is down 12 percent on a
total-return basis over that span.  Right Place, Right Time  “Whether it’s by good fortune or good management, Penney’s
has been at the right place in the right time,” Ashur said.
“Now they’re being viewed as an undervalued asset.”  Contracts protecting debt issued by Sara Lee Corp. jumped
5.2 basis points today and 63.6 basis points on Oct. 4 amid
speculation the company is a potential target for a leveraged
buyout, according to a report by Moody’s Capital Markets
Research Inc. director  Daniel Coker .  “Sara Lee may only be interested in selling a business or
brand, but its active engagement -- with parties who have the
potential to buy the whole firm -- raises the risk that the
event could happen,” Coker wrote in the note, dated today.  Conducive Environment  The macroeconomic environment is conducive to mergers and
acquisitions, according to Coker.  “Companies that hoarded cash during the financial crisis,
and have been unable to find a path to growth amid the
recession, may be looking at acquisitions to put excess cash to
work,” he wrote. “Adding fuel to the fire are exceptionally
low interest rates which offer cheap financing to private equity
firms.”  Credit-default swaps protecting  Avon Products Inc. ’s debt
also jumped, adding 9.9 basis points to 70 after a report that
 L’Oreal SA  may make a takeover offer for the world’s largest
door-to-door cosmetics seller.  A benchmark indicator of overall U.S. corporate credit risk
climbed for the first time in a week as stocks fell after
minutes of the Federal Reserve’s last meeting showed the central
bank was prepared to buy more government debt to stabilize the
recovery. Swaps on banks climbed, led by JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
which increased 8.5 basis points to 83.2, while those on Bank of
America Corp. rose 10.1 basis points to 162.4, according to CMA.  Broad Index  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 0.5 basis point to a mid-price of 97 basis points,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The index,
which typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates and
falls as it improves, touched the lowest in more than five
months yesterday at 96.5 basis points.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  