-- Oil Falls a Second Day After Stronger Dollar Reduces Appeal of Commodities
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-10-12T12:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/crude-oil-futures-decline-in-n-y-before-opec-meeing-as-dollar-strengthens.html
Crude dropped for a second day after
Saudi Arabia signaled that OPEC may leave production targets
unchanged at its Oct. 14 meeting and the group lowered its
forecast for demand for its oil.  Saudi Arabia’s Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said the market is
“very well-balanced” and prices between $70 and $80 a barrel
are “ideal.” Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. cut its forecasts for
2011 and 2012 oil prices because of high stockpiles.  “Oil has moved beyond OPEC’s ideal price range,” said
Sintje Diek, an oil analyst at HSH Nordbank in Hamburg.  Crude for November delivery was down 35 cents, or 0.4
percent, at $81.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 1:32 p.m. London time after falling as low as $80.88. The
contract reached a five-month high of $84.43 last week. Brent
crude for November settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange traded down 31 cents, or 0.4 percent, at $83.41
a barrel after falling as low as $82.48.  Oil pared earlier losses as the dollar gave up some of its
gains against the euro, buoying demand for commodities. The U.S.
currency was at $1.3827 against the euro, after gaining to
$1.3775 earlier.  The “weakening of the dollar from short-term highs has
brought with it some buyers of oil,” said  Alexander Ridgers ,
head of commodities at London-based CMC Markets, which handles
more than $150 million a day in U.S. crude contracts.  OPEC Demand  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries trimmed
its demand forecast for its members’ crude for this year as
production from outside the group grew the most since 2002.  OPEC, responsible for about 40 percent of global supplies,
predicted in a monthly report today that the world will need
28.6 million barrels of oil a day from its 12 members this year.
That’s about 100,000 barrels a day less than last month’s
revised figure.  “The world economy continues to expand at below-average
levels,” OPEC’s secretariat said in the report. U.S. economic
growth is slowing “amidst a still very challenging level of
unemployment.” The U.S. is the world’s largest oil consumer.  “OPEC is in a comfortable position to do nothing,” said
 Kaha Kiknavelidze , a managing partner at London-based Rioni
Capital Partners LLP, which specializes in emerging markets.  Bernstein cut its forecasts for West Texas Intermediate,
which trades in New York, as  U.S. crude stockpiles  have risen
about 7 percent in the last year. WTI may average $90 a barrel
in 2011, down from the research company’s earlier estimate of
$103, and average $102 in 2012, down 8 percent from its earlier
prediction, according to a report e-mailed today.  Naimi ‘Happy’  Al-Naimi, speaking upon his arrival in Vienna for the OPEC
meeting, said he is “happy” with current prices. The kingdom,
the largest oil producer among the group’s 12 members, pumped
8.25 million barrels a day in September, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  OPEC has raised output by 5 percent from a five-year low
reached in March 2009 and now exceeds its own target by 1.9
million barrels a day, about the same amount as Angola produces.
Production was 29.1 million barrels a day last month, based on
Bloomberg News estimates.  “I don’t think there will be any shift” in quotas by
OPEC, Qatari Energy Minister  Abdullah al-Attiyah  said in an Oct.
10 interview. “Producers and consumers are happy” with current
oil prices, he said.  A nationwide strike by French refinery, power and gas
workers lowered crude processing rates and cut power output
while the possibility of fuel shortages loomed as Marseille oil
terminals remained blocked.  Workers at 10 of the country’s 12 refineries voted to
strike today and others may follow, CGT union representative
Christian Votte said by telephone. Deliveries to and from plants
on strike will be blocked and refining rates reduced, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  