-- Cuomo Seeks Information From Lenders in Expanding Probe of Foreclosures
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-10-12T20:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/cuomo-expands-probe-of-new-york-foreclosure-actions.html
New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  requested information from  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and two other mortgage-servicers as he probes the
validity of documents used in home foreclosures.  Cuomo is looking into allegations of “robo-signing,” or
the filing of affidavits that falsely attest the signer has
personal knowledge of the facts in a foreclosure proceeding.
Cuomo called today for a suspension of foreclosures in New York
by mortgage companies involved in robo-signing until they make
their procedures lawful.  “I will not allow New Yorkers to lose their homes due to
mortgage goliaths that buck the system by submitting affidavits
signed without knowledge of the facts,” Cuomo, a Democrat who
is running for governor, said in a statement.  Cuomo is demanding information from Bank of America,
JPMorgan,  Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC Mortgage unit and  Wells
Fargo & Co.  on how foreclosure documents are prepared, verified,
attested to and notarized, and how New York homeowners are
notified, according to the statement.  Bank of America, JPMorgan and GMAC have announced temporary
halts to pending foreclosures, while Wells Fargo hasn’t, Cuomo
said. Bank of America stopped foreclosures in all 50 U.S. states
last week. Lenders including JPMorgan and GMAC suspended
evictions in 23 states where courts supervise home seizures.  ‘Redeem Integrity’  Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum  said today in an e-
mailed statement that he requested a meeting with Bank of
America and three other lenders to “redeem the integrity of the
foreclosure process.”  “We will work with the attorneys general to address the
concerns they have expressed,” Bank of America, based in
Charlotte, North Carolina, said in an e-mailed statement.  Wells Fargo isn’t planning to suspend foreclosures,  Jason Menke , a spokesman for the San Francisco-based company, said in
a telephone interview.  “A number of officials have contacted us about our
foreclosure process and we will be sharing our views with
them,” Menke said. “We remain confident in the controls and
procedures we have.”  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  Gina Proia , an Ally spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  GMAC has hired several law and accounting firms to review
its foreclosure procedures nationwide, the company said today in
a statement.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 