-- Dai-Ichi Life Plans to Boost Japan Bond Holdings, Seeking Stable Returns
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-12T06:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/dai-ichi-life-plans-to-boost-yen-denominated-bond-holdings-in-second-half.html
Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. , Japan’s
second-biggest life insurer, plans to boost its yen-denominated
bond holdings and reduce investment in the nation’s stocks to
safeguard returns as the economy slows.  The company, with about 30 trillion yen ($365 billion) in
assets, plans to mainly invest in Japanese government bonds with
terms of at least 20 years in the six months ending March, said
Akifumi Kai, a manager in the investment planning division.  Dai-ichi Life is seeking the safety of  debt  after Japan’s
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average  tumbled 16 percent in the fiscal first
half on concern that the economic recovery will falter. In
contrast, holders of Japan’s bonds earned 3.4 percent on their
investments in the six months ended Sept. 30, as measured by
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit indexes.  “We don’t expect a double-dip recession, but economic
growth will remain weak,” Kai said in an interview in Tokyo
today. “Our goal is to continue to invest in assets from an
asset-liability management perspective and yen-denominated bonds
will be the core asset class in doing so.”  Dai-ichi Life publicly listed its shares for the first time
this year to expand fundraising options for acquisitions and
partnerships as waning economic growth in Japan compounds the
problem of an  aging society  and low birth rate.  Going Public  The insurer raised 1.01 trillion yen in what was the year’s
biggest IPO before Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. collected
more than $20 billion in July. The firm replaced Nippon
Telegraph & Telephone Corp. as Japan’s most widely held stock
after its April listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The  stock , which began trading on April 1, rose 0.5 percent
to 102,300 yen at the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Japan’s  economic growth  weakened to an annual 1.5 percent
pace in the three months ended June 30, and recent reports
indicate the slowdown is deepening.  Factory output  fell for a
third month in August and figures today showed  household
sentiment  slid to a six-month low in September.  Among other asset classes, Dai-ichi Life plans to maintain
holdings in currency hedged and non-hedged overseas bonds,
foreign equities, real estate and alternative assets such as
hedge funds and private-equity funds this business year, Kai
said. Loans to companies will decrease slightly, he said.
Kai declined to provide figures in the investment plan.  Following are Dai-ichi Life’s market forecasts for the
fiscal second half ending March 31, 2011. The ranges refer to
where the insurer expects securities to trade during the period.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 