-- Obama Administration May Lift Drilling Ban This Week
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-10-12T15:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/deep-water-drilling-moratorium-may-be-lifted-by-u-s-this-week-gibbs-says.html
The Obama administration probably
will act this week to lift a moratorium on deep-water oil and
gas drilling, White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said.  Administration officials have held meetings in the past few
days and are closing in on establishing safeguards to prevent a
repeat of  BP Plc’s  Gulf of Mexico spill, Gibbs said. Interior
Secretary Ken Salazar scheduled a 1 p.m. conference call today
to make an announcement on deep-water drilling, the agency said.  President  Barack Obama  halted oil and natural-gas drilling
in waters deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) after BP’s Macondo
well off the Louisiana coast blew out April 20, killing 11
workers and setting off the biggest U.S. oil spill.  “We’re getting close to having in place something that
would likely allow us to lift that moratorium,” Gibbs said at
the White House. “This process I believe will wrap up very
soon.”  Lifting the six-month moratorium, in place since May 27,
won’t immediately lead to new drilling, said  Michael Bromwich ,
director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy, the Interior Department
unit that oversees energy production. Few drilling permits are
likely to be issued in the month after the suspension is lifted
as companies work to meet new requirements, Bromwich told a
panel investigating the spill Sept. 28.  “The really important thing is what does the new
permitting process look like,” said  Michael McKenna , president
of MWR Strategies, an oil-industry consulting firm in
Washington. “Until the lawyers and consultants and companies
get experience with the permitting process as it actually
happens on the ground, things are going to go very slowly.”  Emergency Systems  Last month,  Salazar  said drillers must improve emergency
systems and estimate the worst-case oil discharge if safeguards
fail, part of a series of regulations issued in response to the
spill. The moratorium may be lifted when the rules go into
effect this week after they are published in the Federal
Register, McKenna said.  “Rules were put in place a couple of weeks ago” that will
allow the moratorium to end, Gibbs said. The rules also require
companies to certify they have a containment strategy for a
worst-case spill.  Industry groups and officials representing Gulf Coast
states have said the drilling ban, which was set to expire Nov.
30, penalizes all companies for BP’s actions while adding to
economic hardship in a region already suffering the spill’s
effect on industries such as fishing and tourism.  Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, has said she
will block Senate action on Obama’s nomination of  Jack Lew  to
lead the White House budget office until the moratorium is
lifted.  Transocean Ltd. , owner of the Deepwater Horizon, the rig
leased by BP that exploded, rose $2.04, or 3.3 percent, to
$63.95 at 11:48 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading after Gibbs’s comments. Noble Corp, the world’s third-
largest deep-water oil and natural-gas driller, rose 70 cents,
or 2.1 percent, to $34.24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
x Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  