-- Swaps Show China, India, Developing Nations Gaining on G-7: Credit Markets
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-10-13T17:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/default-swaps-show-emerging-markets-gaining-on-group-of-7-credit-markets.html
Credit-default swaps on bonds sold
by Brazil, Russia, India and China are closing in on those tied
to the world’s largest economies, which are piling on debt in an
attempt to stoke growth.  The  average cost  of contracts protecting debt of the so-
called BRICs dropped to 41.4 basis points more than the price of
swaps on the  Group of Seven  countries and last week reached the
lowest on record. The extra cost to insure the emerging-market
nations’ bonds  shrunk  from 362 basis points, or 3.62 percentage
points, in March 2009.  Record demand for emerging-market bonds is driving down the
relative yields that investors seek to own the debt. Fixed-
income investors are wagering nations including Brazil and China
will continue to fuel the global recovery while the U.S., Japan
and some of Europe’s biggest countries wrestle with budget
deficits and sluggish growth. Developing nations will grow 6.4
percent next year, while developed economies will expand 2.2
percent, the International Monetary Fund said last week.  “Emerging markets don’t have the problems that developed
markets are having right now,” said  Mikhail Foux , a credit
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “They don’t have the
heavy debt load. They’re growing. A lot of them export
commodities, and the price of commodities is increasing. Their
populations are young and growing. So people feel really good
about emerging markets in general.”  The average cost of swaps on BRIC nations has fallen 9
basis points since the start of the year to 116 basis points,
while the G-7 average jumped 15 to 74, according to data
provider CMA. The G-7 average includes swaps on the U.S., U.K.,
France, Germany, Italy and Japan. Swaps on Canada are not
actively traded.  Extra Yield  Elsewhere in credit markets, a gauge of corporate credit
risk in the U.S. tumbled to the lowest since May. The world’s
biggest missile maker, Raytheon Co., planned to sell $2 billion
of bonds and the cost of protecting  Standard Chartered Plc  debt
from default fell to the lowest in two months after the bank
said it would raise about 3.3 billion pounds ($5.2 billion) of
equity.  The extra yield investors demand to own company bonds
instead of similar maturity government debt fell 1 basis point
to 168 basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. That’s the lowest
since reaching the same level May 13 and down 13 basis points
since Aug. 31. Yields averaged 3.36 percent yesterday.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 4.2 basis points to a mid-price of 92.8 as of 1:04 p.m. in
New York, the lowest since May 3, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Bad Loans  The contracts, which typically fall as investor confidence
improves and decline as it deteriorates, have dropped 13.8 basis
points since Sept. 30, CMA data show.  The cost to protect debt issued by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
fell 0.2 basis point to 83, according to broker Phoenix Partners
Group, after the first of the largest U.S. banks to report
earnings said its profit exceeded analyst estimates. Provisions
for bad loans shrank offsetting an 11 percent decline in
revenue.  Third-quarter net income climbed to $4.42 billion, or $1.01
a share, from $3.59 billion, or 82 cents, in the same period a
year earlier, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. Twenty-two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated
adjusted earnings of 88 cents a share.  “It wasn’t as impressive as everybody was hoping,” said
 Andrew Kuan , senior trader at Primus Asset Management in New
York.  Raytheon Offering  Contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Raytheon will issue 5-, 10- and 30-year securities to buy
back 5.5 percent debt due November 2012 and 5.375 percent notes
maturing in April 2013, the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company
said today in a regulatory filing that didn’t specify the size
or timing of the offering.  The defense contractor will sell the debt as soon as today,
according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified to be identified as terms aren’t set.  Credit-default swaps on Standard Chartered fell 2.5 basis
points to 78.5, according to data provider CMA, as investors
speculated the company won’t sell as many bonds to boost
capital. Its  shares  dropped 1.7 percent to 1,876 pence in
London.  Temasek Involvement  Standard Chartered’s 1.25 billion euros ($1.8 billion) of
3.625 percent senior unsecured notes due 2015 rose, pushing the
yield versus benchmark government debt 7 basis points lower to
131, according to HSBC Holdings Plc prices on Bloomberg.  Investors in Standard Chartered will be offered one new
share at 1,280 pence for every eight they already own, the
London-based bank said in a statement today. That’s a third less
than yesterday’s closing price. Temasek Holdings Pte, Standard
Chartered’s largest shareholder with a 17.7 percent stake, will
subscribe to its portion of the sale, the bank said.  In emerging markets, the extra yield investors demand to
own corporate bonds rather than government debentures fell 7
basis points to 247 basis points, the lowest since April 26,
according to JPMorgan index data.  Outperformance  A record $40.5 billion has flowed into emerging-market bond
funds this year, more than four times the full-year high of $9.7
billion in 2005, according to data from research firm EPFR
Global.  Emerging economies are outperforming developed nations as
European leaders seek to contain debt crises in Greece and
Ireland and as the U.S., which has a $1.3 trillion budget
deficit, tries to jumpstart an economy that grew at an annual
rate of 1.7 percent in the second quarter.  By contrast, Brazil’s economy may expand 7.5 percent this
year, up from a previous forecast of 7 percent, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said yesterday in New York.  “Brazil is enjoying high quality, sustainable growth,
because it doesn’t generate macroeconomic imbalances,” Mantega
said. “Investment today is growing almost three times faster
than the economy and we’re increasing productivity.”  ‘Flowing Aggressively’  Brazilian companies are selling record amounts of perpetual
bonds, which allow issuers to repay principal at their
discretion. Mexico sold $1 billion of 100-year-notes last week
in the first such sale by a Latin American government.  “Money is flowing more aggressively into emerging-market
credit, and the quality of new issues is starting to reflect
that,” said  Ashish Shah , co-head of global credit investment at
AllianceBernstein LP in New York. “That’s the classic way
bubbles get built.”  Mexico Central bank Governor  Agustin Carstens  said the debt
won’t lead to a bubble. The Mexican economy is “solid” and
inflation has been better than expected, he said in Mexico City
yesterday.  An index of swaps on 15 governments in central and eastern
Europe, the Middle East and Africa exceeds a benchmark of
western European creditworthiness by a record low 50 basis
points, down from 161 in February, according to CMA.  China’s Exports  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index has fallen more than 20
basis points since it started trading in January and about 75
from its May peak to 195, while the Markit iTraxx SovX Western
Europe Index rose 55 to 144.5, CMA prices show.  The record flow of cash into emerging economies has
prompted some policymakers to act to slow the trend. Brazil
doubled to 4 percent a tax it charges on some foreign inflows
last week. The real has gained 4.5 percent this year to 1.6699
per dollar as prices on the commodities it exports climb. Sugar
futures have jumped 52 percent since the end of June and
yesterday reached the highest level since February.  China’s economy will likely grow 9.9 percent this year from
a year earlier and will grow 10 percent in 2011, the Caijing
Magazine reported yesterday, citing a report issued by the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.  China’s exports are expected to increase by 27.3 percent
this year and imports to rise 35.7 percent, bringing the
country’s trade surplus to $165 billion this year, Caijing said,
citing the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  