-- Ainslie Says Dell CEO May Buy Company, Pay Dividend
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-12T21:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/dell-ceo-may-buy-the-pc-maker-or-pay-huge-special-dividend-ainslie-says.html
Dell  Inc. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Dell  may buy the computer maker or pay
a “huge” special dividend, according to  Lee Ainslie , managing
partner at Maverick Capital Management LLC.  “It’s a possibility,” Ainslie said, speaking today at the
Value Investing Congress in New York. His Maverick Fund has
gained about 14 percent annually since inception in March 1995.  Technology stocks are the cheapest in 20 years, and the
industry benefits the most from a weaker dollar, according to
Ainslie, who said bets that the industry will gain make up 17
percent of his assets. The Dollar Index, which measures the U.S.
currency against the euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swedish
krona and Swiss franc, has fallen 13 percent since rising to a
15-month high in June.  Michael Dell , who is more than three years into a
turnaround effort at the world’s third-largest personal-computer
maker, said in June that he has considered taking the company
private. Speaking at a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. conference in
New York, Dell declined to say what would prompt him to make the
move. He said he has “every intention” of continuing to run
the Round Rock, Texas-based company and that growth-revival
plans haven’t come to fruition.  “This transformation is incomplete,” Dell said at the
time. “If I had to give it a grade, it’d give it an
incomplete.”  Dell shares  rose  after Ainslie’s comments, climbing 1.4
percent to $13.92 as of 4 p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 