-- DeNA Buys Game Firm and IPhone Application-Maker Ngmoco for $400 Million
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2010-10-12T19:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/dena-to-buy-ngmoco-u-s-maker-of-iphone-applications-for-400-million.html
DeNA Co. , a Japanese social game
developer, agreed to pay about $400 million to buy an unlisted
U.S. maker of games that can be played on Apple Inc.’s iPhone as
part of its overseas expansion.  DeNA will acquire all of San Francisco-based Ngmoco using
cash, shares and warrants, the Japanese company said in a
statement today. The transaction is slated to close on Nov. 9.  A combination with Ngmoco, which this quarter will
introduce games for phones that run on Google Inc.’s Android
operating system, will create the world’s largest mobile social
games platform company, according to the statement. The deal is
DeNA’s third involving a U.S. company in the past 12 months,
including last month’s purchase of Gameview Studios Llc.  Ngmoco’s shareholders and employees will get $300 million
in cash and securities and are entitled to additional
consideration of as much as $100 million if performance goals
are met, according to the statement from the Tokyo-based
company. Ngmoco was founded two years ago by former Electronic
Arts Inc. executive  Neil Young .  DeNA fell 1.6 percent to close at 2,373 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange before the announcement. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average dropped 2.1 percent.  The deal is designed to help DeNA create a unified platform
that will let developers make games that run on both Apple and
Android operating systems, according to the statement. Ngmoco
will also help DeNA to make its Mobage Town gaming site into a
global service, the Japanese company said.  Walt Disney, Google  DeNA last month bought Gameview, a Mountain View,
California-based maker of free-play games for mobile platforms.
In October, the company acquired 20 percent of  Aurora Feint
Inc. , a Burlingame, California-based gaming network with more
than 29 million users, according to its website.  Ngmoco was funded in part by Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers, whose earlier investments included Google Inc. and
Amazon.com Inc. The venture capital firm’s return from the
Ngmoco sale roughly pays off its initial $100 million iFund,
which was created to invest in companies making applications for
Apple’s mobile devices, said  Matt Murphy , a partner at Menlo
Park, California-based Kleiner Perkins.  With more processing power and better graphics than their
predecessors, smartphones are eating into the game-console
market dominated by Nintendo Co. and Sony Corp. Shipments of
game-capable mobile phones are set to rise 11 percent to
1.27 billion this year, according to market researcher iSuppli.  In July,  Walt Disney Co.  agreed to buy Playdom Inc. for
$563.2 million, acquiring the second-biggest maker of games
played on Facebook Inc. and MySpace websites. It had also  bought 
Tapulous Inc., a developer of music-related games for the iPod
and the iPad.  In August,  Google Inc. , owner of the world’s most popular
search engine, acquired social-gaming company Slide Inc., as
part of an effort to keep pace with Facebook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  