-- Deutsche Bank Supports Frieze, Adorns Offices With Hirst Dots
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/deutsche-bank-sponsors-frieze-adorns-offices-with-hirst-dots-bacon-pope.html
A wall of dots by  Damien Hirst 
greets visitors to  Deutsche Bank  AG’s offices in London.  “Biotin-Maleimide” (1995), one of Hirst’s signature spot
paintings, hangs near a mirrored stainless-steel ball by  Anish Kapoor  (“Turning the World Upside Down III,” 1996) and a man
painted sideways by  Sigmar Polke  (“Drehung,” 1979).  Those three pieces, together worth millions of dollars, are
among the 55,000 artworks in more than 900  Deutsche Bank
buildings  and 45 countries worldwide. They’re not very
representative, though: The rest of the collection consists
mostly of works on paper that cost, on average, 1,000 pounds
($1,583) each.  The bank also co-funds  Deutsche Guggenheim , a Berlin
exhibition venue set up with the  Solomon R. Guggenheim
Foundation , and sponsors the Frieze Art Fair in London, which it
has backed since the fair’s second year in 2004.  “Frieze was an instant success, so it wasn’t a difficult
decision,” says Alistair Hicks, 54, the bank’s London-based art
adviser. “There was instantly a buzz about it.”  “We recognized back then that London needed an
international fair that promoted a broad spectrum of new art,
and we shared the same ambition,” says Hicks. “We’ve benefited
from partnership with a force for change.”  This year, the bank gives its Artist of the Year award at a
Frieze luncheon, and exhibits works on paper bought in the past
year. They include photographs by the Nigerian-born Samuel
Fosso, 2-meter-high monotypes by Gavin Turk, and photographs by
the Chinese artist Cao Fei (who spent six months in an Osram
light-bulb factory in China).  Shopping at Frieze  Conveniently, the buying committee -- which clears every
purchase -- is fully present at  Frieze , so every year Deutsche
buys about 20 works costing 3,000 pounds to 5,000 pounds each.  Staff seems to like the Frieze relationship, which is
reviewed every three years. The 800 free tickets offered on the
Internet this year were snapped up in less than 10 minutes.
(They would otherwise cost 25 pounds per adult.)  Frieze sponsorship and the bank’s permanent display of
works on paper are part of a companywide philosophy that
“Deutsche Bank should be more than about money” and that staff
should enjoy a “stimulating work environment,” Hicks says.  Prints, sketches and photographs hang in meeting rooms
named after artists -- and give bankers an alternative to
wallpaper and potted plants. The curious ones can browse
catalogs in the room about the artist’s life and work.  No Bling  “We’re buying works of art that are accessible to our
staff, and not too expensive,” says Hicks. “We don’t want to
put them off with big splashy art on the walls.”  Why works on paper? “Small is good, detail is good,” says
Hicks. Besides, that’s how art originates: “The concept, the
ideas are in the works on paper.”  Outside the Bacon room is “Study for a Portrait of Pope
Innocent X” (1989), a drawing by  Francis Bacon  preparing for
the famous series of screaming popes inspired by  Velazquez . The
drawing has just returned from an exhibition in Rome.  The Freud room has a  Lucian Freud  etching -- “Woman With
an Arm Tattoo” (1996) -- of a chubby female figure napping with
her fist under her chin.  During the 2008-9 financial crisis, “we had to come out
and say why we should be doing it,” says Hicks. “If there are
times when one is laying off staff, it’s difficult to justify
spending.”  According to Bloomberg News data, in the months after the
September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
Deutsche Bank cut some 2,000 jobs worldwide.  On balance, works on paper are cheap enough to be “the
perfect concept for good and bad times,” says Hicks. “We’re
not an economic drain on the system.”  Richter, Kiefer  The question is whether works on paper aren’t wasted on
staffers with neither the time nor the depth of interest, and
whether the art wouldn’t be better off on public display.  Management announced a major shift two years ago: to loan
600 works from the collection -- including works by  Gerhard Richter ,  Anselm Kiefer  and  Georg Baselitz  -- to the  Staedel
Museum  in Frankfurt.  “We want to make the Deutsche Bank art collection
accessible to a wider audience and thus foster creativity,”
Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said in a press release,
“which is the prerequisite for innovation, growth and
prosperity.”  Hicks, a writer and curator, was hired in 1995 to catalog
the London collection, and stayed on as an art adviser-buyer.
London at the time had 200 staffers, versus more than 7,000 now,
and a sixth of its 3,000-strong collection.  Morgan Grenfell  Banks in those days opted for “respectable” art, such as
the 19th- and 20th-century works that Morgan Grenfell brought
with it when bought by Deutsche Bank in 1989.  The shift ordered by Ackermann has allowed the bank to buy
more internationally, and given the art department more
flexibility: Selling works, for instance, is no longer banned.  “We’re the first to accept that we’re in banking, not a
museum, and that certain works would be better off outside,”
says Hicks. “We’re a breathing collection and not there to
commemorate a fossilized moment in time.”  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 