-- Disputes May Affect 9 Million Foreclosures, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-10-12T17:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/disputes-may-affect-9-million-foreclosures-morgan-stanley-says.html
As many as 9 million U.S. mortgages
in the foreclosure pipeline or already through the process may
face legal challenges because of questions about the validity of
documents, according to Morgan Stanley.  About 2.5 million homes have been repossessed since 2005
and another 6.5 million mortgages are in foreclosure or may be
soon, Morgan Stanley’s  Oliver Chang ,  Vishwanath Tirupattur  and
 James Egan  wrote in a note today. The validity of documents used
to verify ownership and payment obligations may be in question
for each of those loans, Chang said.  “We are talking about some pretty big numbers,” Chang, a
San Francisco-based housing strategist, said in a telephone
interview today. “There’s a lot of developing aspects” to
determine the actual impact, he said.  Lawmakers, state attorneys general and consumer groups have
pressed mortgage firms to follow Bank of America Corp., which
last week suspended all foreclosures to check whether faulty
documents were used to confiscate homes. A worst-case scenario,
in which questions of legitimacy arise beyond procedural issues
and a freeze extends to all states and servicers, would lead to
“a torrent” of eventual foreclosures, retroactive litigation
on home seizures and a delay in the housing recovery, Morgan
Stanley said.  In addition to Bank of America’s halt,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .
and Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit froze seizures or
evictions in 23 states. There are about 3.3 million mortgages in
foreclosure or more than 60 days past due in those states,
according to New York-based Morgan Stanley.  Increased Short Sales  The current moratoriums likely will lead to a rise in short
sales, when lenders agree to let homeowners sell properties for
less than they owe on the mortgage, Chang said.  “It’s usually a cooperation between the borrower and the
lender or servicer, so there’s less likely to be conflict,”
Chang said.  Barclays Plc, Ally and New York Private Bank & Trust Corp.
are among the banks with the highest percentage of loans in the
foreclosure process on one- to four-family properties, a  report 
by Charlottesville, Virginia-based SNL Financial said yesterday.  Investors in mortgage-backed securities may face reduced
yields if the tax-exempt status of their holdings is lost
because documents were filed improperly,  Josh Levin , an analyst
with Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note to investors today.  Another potential issue is whether title insurance
companies will issue policies required for mortgages if there is
uncertainty with the ownership, Levin wrote. Title insurers are
in talks with lenders and regulators to obtain warranties from
lenders assuring they followed proper procedures before selling
foreclosed homes,  Kurt Pfotenhauer , head of the American Land
Title Association trade group, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 