-- Duke Energy Wins Verdict Reversal in EPA Lawsuit Over Indiana Power Plants
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-12T20:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/duke-energy-wins-verdict-reversal-in-epa-lawsuit-over-indiana-power-plants.html
Duke Energy Corp. , owner of
utilities in the U.S. Midwest and Southeast, won reversal of a
jury verdict finding that three of its coal-fired power
generators in  Indiana  violated the federal Clean Air Act.  A federal-court jury in Indianapolis decided in 2008 that
renovations at the plant operated by Duke’s Cinergy unit near
the Wabash River were so extensive as to fall under the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency’s New Source Review regulations,
requiring installation of the best available technology for
controlling pollutants that cause smog and acid rain.  The renovations complied with Indiana’s plan for
implementing the Clean Air Act, a three-judge panel of the U.S.
Court of Appeals in Chicago said in today’s ruling. The state’s
plan, approved by the EPA in 1982, was in effect when Cinergy
started the work in 1989, the court said.  “The Clean Air Act does not authorize the imposition of
sanctions for conduct that complies with a state implementation
plan that the EPA has approved,” U.S. Circuit Judge  Richard Posner  wrote in a 12-page decision. “The blunder was
unfortunate but the agency must live with it.”  The appeals court also said that U.S. District Judge  Larry J. McKinney , who presided over the trial in Indianapolis,
improperly admitted expert testimony proffered by the EPA.  Duke  said the work at the plants constituted routine
maintenance and federal regulations weren’t violated.  U.S. Review  “We’re reviewing the decision,” Wyn Hornbuckle, a
spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department, said in a telephone
interview.  Cinergy Corp., which operated the Wabash plant near Terre
Haute, Indiana, was  acquired  by Duke in 2006. Citing an increase
in sulfur dioxide emissions, McKinney last year ordered the
units to be shut down because of the violations.  “This vindication is certainly a win for our customers and
company and will allow us to utilize the investment that’s been
made in the Wabash station to meet the energy needs of the
region in a cost-effective manner,”  Tim Pettit , a spokesman for
Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Duke , said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is U.S. v. Cinergy Corp., 09-03344, 09-03350 and
09-03351, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
(Chicago). The lower-court case is U.S. v. Cinergy Corp., 99-cv-
01963, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 