-- Blackstone’s Bid for Dynegy Too Low, Icahn Says
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2010-10-12T20:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/dynegy-holder-icahn-says-merger-price-is-inadequate.html
Blackstone Group LP ’s $540 million
offer for Dynegy Inc. isn’t adequate, said billionaire investor
 Carl Icahn , holder of 10 percent of the power producer and who
may be its largest shareholder based on filings.  Icahn commented on the proposed purchase in a filing today
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in which he
said he controls 12 million shares of Houston-based Dynegy.
Dynegy’s  shares  closed yesterday at $4.75, 25 cents above the
Blackstone offer of $4.50 a share.  “I think you will get other shareholders to jump on board
with Carl Icahn,” said  Andy DeVries , an analyst at CreditSights
Inc. in New York. “The biggest question is, what is Carl Icahn
holding out for? Is he holding out for $4.75, is he holding out
for $5.50?”  Icahn is the chief executive officer of Icahn Enterprises
LP, the New York-based holding company for his investment-
advisory business, and the world’s 59th richest person,
according to Forbes magazine. The market value of Icahn’s energy
holdings rose to about $348 million as of June 30 from about $52
million as of March 31, filings show.  Dynegy rose 12 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $4.87 at 4:04 p.m.
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Company
spokesman  David Byford  wouldn’t comment on Icahn’s filing. Tom
Johnson, a Blackstone spokesman, declined to comment.  No Competing Bids  Dynegy got no competing bids to the August offer from New
York-based Blackstone, the world’s largest private equity firm,
which pools money from investors to take over companies. The
purchase includes $540 million for the company’s stock and
assumption of about $4.16 billion of debt. Dynegy’s board on
Oct. 5 recommended shareholders vote for the Blackstone offer at
a Nov. 17 meeting.  A handful of investors may now hold 32 percent of Dynegy,
based on filings this month by Dynegy, Icahn and others.  Icahn appears to be the largest shareholder with 9.95
percent, followed by entities of New York based Seneca Capital
LP with 9.3 percent, Donald Smith & Co with 7.2 percent, and UBS
with 6.2 million shares, or a 5.2 percent stake.  Seneca reported its holdings Oct. 7. Dynegy reported the
Donald Smith and UBS stakes Oct. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 