-- Bombing Defendant Helped Buy Truck for Embassy Blast, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/embassy-bombing-defendant-wanted-to-kill-americans-u-s-says-at-trial.html
The first Guantanamo Bay detainee to
be tried in a civilian court in the U.S. helped buy a Nissan
truck used by terrorists to deliver a bomb to the U.S. embassy
in Tanzania, a prosecutor told jurors in New York.  Ahmed Ghailani  was part of an al-Qaeda cell that wanted to
“kill Americans” when it bombed two U.S. embassies in Africa
in 1998, Assistant U.S. Attorney Nicholas Lewin told the federal
court jury yesterday.  Ghailani, 36, a Tanzanian, is charged with participating in
a global conspiracy with al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden  for the
near-simultaneous bombings of the U.S. embassies in Nairobi,
Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, on Aug. 7, 1998. The attacks
killed 224 people, including 12 U.S. citizens. Ghailani, charged
with 224 counts of murder, could be sentenced to life in prison
if convicted.  “At this trial we will prove to you that both of these
massacres in Kenya and Tanzania were the work of a single al-
Qaeda cell,” Lewin said in his opening statement. Pointing to
the defendant, he said, “This man, Ahmed Ghailani, was an
active member of that cell. He and his accomplices were
committed to al-Qaeda’s overriding goal, to kill Americans.”  Lewin said the U.S. will present witnesses who can describe
Ghailani’s actions before the blasts, including a Tanzanian man
who sold the vehicle to Ghailani and an accomplice. He said the
jury will also hear from a welder who sold large industrial gas
tanks to Ghailani that the U.S. says were used in the Tanzania
attack.  ‘Body Count’  Ghailani and his accomplices loaded about 20 acetylene- and
oxygen-filled tanks, each five feet tall and weighing about 150
pounds, into the Tanzanian truck. The mix of the gases, along
with TNT, was intended, “to increase the fire bomb, increase
the shrapnel and to increase the body count,” Lewin said.  The jury will also hear from Ghailani’s former roommate at
a Dar es Salaam residence, where FBI agents found clothing
covered with explosives residue and a detonator, Lewin said. He
said the U.S. could link Ghailani to a mobile phone used
repeatedly before the attacks to call a house in Kenya, where
the Nairobi bomb was made.  L’Houssaine Kherchtou, a former al-Qaeda member who quit
the terror group three years before the attacks, will also give
jurors an insider’s look at the terrorist group, he said.  Ghailani fled Africa a day before the attack with other al-
Qaeda members on a flight to Pakistan, he said.  “He never dreamed that he would one day face all of these
witnesses, the victims of his crimes in an American courtroom,”
Lewin said.  Ghailani ‘Duped’  Ghailani’s lawyer, Steven Zissou, told the jury his client
was innocent and had been “duped” by other, more worldly
friends who had fled after the attacks. He compared Ghailani to
government witnesses who unwittingly provided materials to the
bomb-makers. Zissou told the jury his client hadn’t knowingly
participated in the attacks and didn’t share their goals.  “These are the men who used him in this very plot, by
running errands, not because they told him they were going to
blow up an embassy,” Zissou said, adding later, “These members
used dupes, dozens of people to aid and assist them and that is
just what happened to Ahmed Ghailani.”  Ghailani was a follower who did the bidding of people such
as a co-conspirator, Sheikh Ahmed Swedan, who purchased the
Nissan truck, Zissou said. He described his client as “not
really a man, but a boy, more comfortable playing with children
and watching cartoons.”  Al-Qaeda  He also urged jurors to put aside any sentiments about al-
Qaeda or the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. He predicted the
government would fail to prove Ghailani knowingly participated
in the embassy bombings.  The evidence that the U.S. will use to try to link him to
the bombing, including the purchase of tanks, a truck or a
mobile phone, were “all part of a normal, totally benign
business arrangement, normal acts of commerce” common in East
Africa, Zissou said.  John Lange, the former acting U.S. ambassador to Tanzania,
said he was in a morning meeting on August 7, 1998, when a bomb
ripped through embassy wall behind him.  “I suddenly heard a very low rumbling noise for about two
seconds and then glass just blew in over my head and landed on
the people in front of me,” said Lange, the government’s first
witness. “It came down in sheets and not shards and it covered
those people.”  ‘Last Gasps’  Lange said he later found one worker, “covered in rubble
up to her chest” and a dying man whose body was blackened, on
the pavement outside the building, he said. “He was in his last
gasps of life.”  He said he walked outside and surveyed the damage to the
embassy, saying, “It was a disaster area.”  Ghailani fled Africa with a senior al-Qaeda explosives
trainer and “remained an active participant in al-Qaeda,” the
U.S. said in court papers. He was indicted by a federal grand
jury in New York in December 1998.  He later admitted that he worked for several top al-Qaeda
terrorists and served as a cook and bodyguard for  bin Laden ,
prosecutors said. He also forged documents for the terror group,
according to the U.S. Those February 2007 statements made to
agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation won’t be used
against him, the U.S. has said.  Alleged Torture  Ghailani was captured in Pakistan in July 2004 and held by
the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency where he was subjected to
“enhanced interrogation techniques,” the U.S. has said.  His lawyers say he was tortured. U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan , who is presiding over the case, rejected a defense bid
to dismiss the indictment for the alleged torture.  Ghailani was taken to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in September
2006 and transferred to federal court in New York last year,
after the Obama administration said it planned to close
Guantanamo and try some terrorism suspects held there in
civilian courts.  The trial resumes today.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York Federal Court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 