-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall Most in Seven Weeks on China, India Concerns
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-12T07:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/emerging-market-stocks-fall-most-in-seven-weeks-on-china-india-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, sending
the benchmark index to its biggest drop in seven weeks, on
speculation China is stepping up efforts to cool its economy and
as India’s factory output grew at a slower pace.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  lost 1 percent to 1,096.33
as of 3:05 p.m. in Singapore, set for its biggest decline since
Aug. 25. The MSCI China Index, tracking mainly Hong Kong-traded
Chinese stocks, fell 0.4 percent and the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
Sensitive Index declined 0.9 percent. The  Shanghai Composite
Index  rallied for a third day after a weeklong holiday. South
Korea’s won paced losses by currencies on speculation policy
makers will intervene to check appreciation.  China boosted reserve requirements for six large commercial
banks by half a percentage point for two months, a move that
Deutsche Bank AG said may add to the possibility of an interest-
rate increase. The tightening of liquidity in China runs counter
to efforts by central banks in other major economies to boost
growth, with Japan’s Finance Minister Yoshihiko Noda saying his
government is ready to take “bold action” on currencies.  “Central banks all want the same thing, which is to
preserve growth and at the same time make sure that they don’t
lose out when other countries try to weaken their currencies,”
said  Venkatraman Anantha-Nageswaran , Singapore-based global
chief investment officer at Bank Julius Baer & Co., which
oversees $140 billion. “There are no easy answers for fostering
growth.”  The won fell to 1,124.55 per dollar, while China’s yuan
declined 0.1 percent, the most in almost two months, to 6.6755.
Thailand’s baht traded steady at 30.05 as Finance Minister Korn
Chatikavanij said the Cabinet would consider measures to slow
fund inflows into the country.  ICBC Falls  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
largest lender by market value, dropped 1.2 percent in Hong Kong
and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  retreated 1 percent.  Pressure for an “asymmetric rate hike” or liberalization
of deposit rates will increase after the central bank raised the
reserve requirement ratio and given rising inflation in
September and a recent rebound in stock and property prices,
Deutsche Bank analysts led by Jun Ma said in a report today.  Chinese energy and metal producers rose, with  Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co.  and  Jiangxi Copper Co.  both advancing by or near
their daily limit of 10 percent on each of the last three
trading days in Shanghai. The gains helped t he Shanghai
Composite Index  rebound from earlier losses to climb 1.2
percent, taking its gains from the July 5 low to 20 percent. The
market was closed from Sept. 30 to Oct. 7, during which the MSCI
Emerging Markets Materials Index rallied 2.6 percent.  Curb Lending  The Shanghai index is still 13 percent lower for the year,
Asia’s worst performer. China’s economy grew more than 10
percent for three straight quarters, prompting the government to
take steps to curb lending and cool real estate speculation.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. , India’s largest engineering company,
retreated 2 percent after the nation’s industrial production
growth slowed to a 5.6 percent pace in August after a revised
15.2 percent increase in July. The median estimate of 25
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 9.5 percent gain
in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  