-- Emerging Stocks Fall Most in Seven Weeks As China Moves to Cool Economy
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-10-12T17:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/emerging-stocks-fall-most-in-seven-weeks-as-china-moves-to-cool-economy.html
Emerging-market stocks declined,
sending the benchmark index toward its biggest drop in seven
weeks, on signs China is stepping up efforts to cool its economy
and as commodity prices tumbled.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  lost 0.8 percent to
1,099.04 at 12:26 p.m. in New York, heading for its largest drop
since Aug. 25. The MSCI China Index, tracking mainly Hong Kong-
traded Chinese stocks, retreated 0.2 percent, Russia’s Micex
slid 0.3 and Indian stocks lost 0.7 percent, while benchmark
equity gauges slumped by more than 0.9 percent in  Taiwan ,  South
Korea  and the  Czech Republic . Brazil’s stock market was closed
for a holiday. The Korean won and the ruble depreciated as the
dollar rebounded.  China boosted reserve requirements for six large commercial
banks by half a percentage point for two months, a move that
Deutsche Bank AG said may presage an interest-rate increase. The
move weighed on commodity prices as traders speculated that
Chinese demand for raw materials may ease.  “These factors will likely provide a difficult near-term
outlook for risky assets, even if what we’re dealing with is
just a technical adjustment and not a change of the trend,” BNP
Paribas SA wrote in an e-mailed report. Traders will be watching
the release of minutes by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Federal
Open Market Committee for hints as to whether it will ease
monetary policy, the French bank said.  The MSCI emerging stocks index  rose 1.4 percent  last week
amid speculation that the Fed will announce plans to stimulate
economic growth at its Nov. 2-3 meeting. The U.S. central bank
will release minutes from its September gathering at 2 p.m. in
Washington.  Hungary, India  OAO Gazprom , the world’s largest producer of natural gas,
declined 1.2 percent. Crude oil lost as much as 1.6 percent in
New York after Saudi Arabia signaled that OPEC may leave
production targets unchanged and as the dollar strengthened,
reducing the investment appeal of commodities. Gold declined for
the first time in three days.  The ruble depreciated 0.6 percent to 30.0791 per dollar, on
course for its largest slide since Sept. 16. The won fell 1.3
percent to 1,131.45 per dollar. The Turkish lira slipped 0.3
percent and the rand lost 0.2 percent against the U.S. currency.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. , India’s largest engineering company,
retreated 1.9 percent after the nation’s industrial production
growth slowed to a 5.6 percent pace in August after a revised
15.2 percent increase in July. The median estimate of 25
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 9.5 percent gain
in August. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 0.7
percent.  China  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
largest lender by market value, dropped 0.8 percent in Hong Kong
and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  retreated 1 percent.  Pressure for an “asymmetric rate hike” in China or
liberalization of deposit rates will increase after the central
bank raised the reserve requirement ratio and given rising
inflation in September and a recent rebound in stock and
property prices, Deutsche Bank analysts led by  Jun Ma  wrote.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 1.2 percent, taking
its gains from the July 5 low to 20 percent. The market was
closed from Sept. 30 to Oct. 7.  The difference between the return investors demand on
emerging-market debt and U.S. Treasuries narrowed by 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 2.59 percent, according to
the  JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ index.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  