-- Maturity `Wall' Dwarfs European Junk Bond Market, Moody's Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2010-10-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/european-junk-bond-market-faces-300-million-maturity-wall-moody-s-says.html
The $316 billion of junk-rated
corporate debt that needs refinancing in Europe through 2014 is
a “wall of maturities” that dwarfs the historic capacity of the
market,  Moody’s Investors Service  said.  Speculative-grade issuers in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa have $502 billion of bonds and loans outstanding, Moody’s
said in a report today, citing 224 companies it rates. About 63
percent of the debt matures between 2011 and 2014, with a peak
of $89 billion in 2013, according to the report. About two
thirds is in the form of bank loans with the rest being bonds.  “The wall of maturities does raise questions,” said
 Chetan Modi , an analyst at Moody’s in London. “How is the
market going to get this increased capacity and what does that
mean for pricing and for other conditions?”  Companies have looked to the high-yield bond market for
financing since banks reined in lending to riskier borrowers
after losing $1.3 trillion in the credit crisis. Issuers in
Europe sold about $46 billion of high-yield bonds in the first
nine months of 2010, surpassing the previous annual record of
$43 billion last year, and used almost 80 percent of the cash
raised to refinance, according to Moody’s.  High-yield, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Continuing Trend  New York-based Moody’s expects “much of the maturing bank
debt” to be refinanced in the junk bond market, “continuing a
recent trend,” according to the report.  European corporate junk bonds have returned 16 percent this
year, including reinvested interest, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. That’s more than the 13 percent return on their
U.S. counterparts, though less than Asian dollar notes which
handed investors 20 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show. Sales in Europe have almost doubled this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Issuers in the Ba ratings category -- the strongest of the
three high-yield groupings -- account for 66 percent of the debt
coming due next year, Moody’s said. So-called fallen angels,
companies that have lost investment-grade ratings, account for
69 percent of the junk-rated debt maturing in 2011 and 2012,
while the 25 largest issuers account for half of all the debt
outstanding, Moody’s said.  “The successful refinancing of a few large fallen angels
in key sectors would materially reduce the overall maturity
burden,” according to the report.  Extending Maturities  Continental AG , Europe’s No. 2 tire maker, has been seeking
to extend maturities on more than 8 billion euros ($11 billion)
of bank loans due in 2012. The company, which Moody’s rates at
B1, four levels below the investment-grade Baa3 rating it held
at end-2008, has sold 3 billion euros of bonds this year.  Maturities of loans to companies bought during the wave of
leveraged buyouts that took place between 2005 and 2007 peak in
2013, Moody’s said.  “When the LBO maturities pick up, it all gets more
interesting in terms of refinancing,” said Modi. “We’ll have
to see how investors’ risk appetite develops and that depends on
the macroeconomic picture. That’s what underpins everything.”  LBOs account for about a third of rated speculative-grade
issuers and a quarter of the junk debt coming due, according to
the report. The borrowers tend to be rated lower than other
junk-graded issuers, and Moody’s forecasts that “a number of
stressed LBOs will default” if rates rise.  The loan funds that helped finance the buyout boom, known
as collateralized loan obligations, are “likely to be less
prominent in the refinancing process,” according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  