-- Europe Commodity Day Ahead: China Discovers More Copper, Potash Reserves
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   M a t t h e w   O a k l e y   [ ] .
-- 2010-10-12T05:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/europe-commodity-day-ahead-china-discovers-more-copper-potash-reserves.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS:
*T                                           Forecast  Prior
U.S. Corn Export Inspections Oct. 7          -         35.49 bu
(Time: 11 p.m. Washington Oct 12)
U.S. Soybean Export Inspections Oct. 7      -          16.36 bu
(Time: 11 p.m. Washington Oct 12)
U.S. Wheat Export Inspections Oct. 7         -         24.16 bu
(Time: 11 p.m. Washington Oct 12)  
TOP STORIES:
China Discovers More Copper, Potash Deposits, Ministry Says  China, the world’s largest metals consumer, discovered
additional copper, bauxite, gold and potash deposits as the
country strives to meet surging demand for natural resources.  China Aluminum Import Demand to Surge, Harbor Intelligence Says  Aluminum imports by China, the world’s largest producer,
may climb to more than 5 million metric tons a year by 2015 as
local demand outpaces growth in output, according to research
group Harbor Intelligence.  Aluminum Prices in China May Gain More Than 10% on Output Cuts  Aluminum prices in China, the world’s largest producer, may
jump by more than 10 percent next year as output cuts in the
country increase amid rising demand, research group Harbor
Intelligence said.  Rice May Surge 30% as U.S. Crop Misses Forecast, Group Says  The rice harvest in the U.S., the world’s fourth-largest
exporter last year, may be at least 10 percent smaller than
estimated, missing a forecast record output and pushing prices
30 percent higher, a producer’s group said.  Irish Swap Finance for Food as Economy Returns to Rural Roots  At Bank of America Corp., David Farrell spent his day taking
calls from credit-card customers in Ireland. Now, he’s learning
to sow seeds to escape the worst recession in the country’s
modern history.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:
Copper Declines From London to Shanghai as China Tightens Credit  Copper dropped in London, Shanghai and New York on the
prospect of further credit tightening in China, the world’s
largest user, and as the dollar rebounded.  MINING:
Australia Mine Tax Distorts Investment, Financial Review Reports  Australian resource rent tax changes made by Prime Minister
Julia Gillard are too generous and will distort investment in
mining, the Australian Financial Review said, citing an
interview with Jack Minz, a Canadian oil and gas company
director.  Timah to Miss Production Target Due to Bad Weather: Abubakar  PT Timah, the world’s largest tin exporter, will miss its
2010 production target because of bad weather, Corporate
Secretary Abrun Abubakar said in an interview today in Jakarta.
The Indonesian miner’s tin output may be 40,000 tons from a
targeted 45,000 tons, Abubakar said.  Aneka Tambang 9-Month Nickel Production Gains, Gold Declines  PT Aneka Tambang’s ferronickel production climbed 62
percent in the first nine months of 2010 from last year, while
gold output fell 3 percent, Corporate Secretary Bimo Budi
Satriyo said.  Chile Makes Final Preparations as Midnight Miner Rescue Nears  Chilean rescue workers will make their final preparations
today before attempting to rescue 33 miners trapped underground
for more than two months.  Trapped Miners Prepare for Book, Movie Deals as Rescue Nears  Chile’s 33 trapped miners are preparing to swap their
underground shelter for the international spotlight as offers
from media and moviemakers are set to match their current annual
wages.  Citic Resources To Hold Vote on Spinning Off Dameng This Month  Citic Resources Holdings Ltd. said it will hold a meeting
on Oct. 27 to vote on the proposed spinoff of Citic Dameng
Holdings Ltd., its manganese unit.  PRECIOUS METALS:
Gold Declines for First Time in Three Days as Dollar Advances  Gold declined for the first time in three days as the
dollar advanced, curbing the appeal of commodities as
alternative investments.  Gold May Surge to Record $1,650, Goldman Forecasts  Gold may rally more than 20 percent from this month’s
record to a high of $1,650 an ounce in 12 months as the Federal
Reserve takes action to stimulate the U.S. economy, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  AGRICULTURE:
DBS Cuts Malaysian Palm Oil Output Forecast, Raises Indonesia’s  Palm oil output in Malaysia, the world’s second-largest
producer, may be less than forecast because of a labor shortage
and drought earlier in the year, HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn.
said in a report today.  Corn Gains to Near Two-Year High on Supply Concern; Soy Climbs  Corn advanced for fourth day to trade near a two-year high
on concern that demand will outpace supply as output is forecast
to drop in the U.S., the biggest grower. Soybeans also climbed.  Kazakh Grain Harvest Reaches 13.6 Million Tons, Interfax Says  Kazakhstan’s grain harvest reached 13.6 million tons by
bunker weight, Interfax reported, citing the country’s
Agriculture Ministry.  Palm Oil Drops From 26-Month High as October Output May Rebound  Palm oil dropped from a 26-month high amid speculation that
output from Malaysia, the second-largest producer after
Indonesia, may rebound this month.  China Sells 31.5% of Corn Offered at Auctions, Center Says  China sold 312,600 metric tons of corn, or 31.5 percent of
the total 993,600 tons offered at auctions from state reserves
today, the National Grain and Oil Trade Center said on its
website.  China to Import 500,000 Tons of Rice in 2010-2011, Center Says  China will import 500,000 metric tons of rice in 2010-2011,
Zhang Haoran, a senior analyst at the China National Grain &
Oils Information Center said today at a conference in Singapore.
That amount is the same as the previous year, Zhang said.  Malaysian Palm Oil Export Value May Rise This Year, Bernama Says  Malaysia’s palm oil exports may reach 65.2 billion ringgit
this year, up from 49.5 billion ringgit in 2009, state news
agency Bernama reported, citing Plantation Industries and
Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok.  SOFT COMMODITIES:
Rubber Climbs to Five-Month High on Weaker Yen, Supply Concerns  Rubber climbed to the highest level in more than five
months, bolstered by a weakening yen and supply concerns
following heavy rain in key producer countries. Shanghai rubber
surged to more than a four-year high.  China Sells All 30,060 Tons of Cotton in Auction; Price Climbs  China sold all of the 30,060 metric tons of cotton offered
from state reserves in an auction, according to the China Cotton
Association. The cotton was sold yesterday at an average
weighted price of 23,843 yuan ($3,578) a ton, 546 yuan more than
the price in an Oct. 9 auction, the group said.  ECONOMIES:
China Trade Surplus May Cap Biggest Quarter Since 2008  China may tomorrow report a $17.8 billion trade surplus for
September that would cap the biggest quarterly excess since the
financial crisis in 2008, adding fuel to U.S. calls for import
protection.  BOE Rate Will Stay Low Amid ‘Stormy Seas,’ Arcadia’s Green Says  The Bank of England’s interest rate will probably stay
close to a record low for the next two years as the U.K. economy
weathers “stormy seas,” said Philip Green, the billionaire
owner of Arcadia Group Ltd.  U.S. Needs Faster-Acting Stimulus, MSI Global’s Ivanovitch Says  The U.S. economy needs faster-acting stimulus in the form
of increased government spending or tax cuts because the impact
of monetary policy takes hold in the longer term, MSI Global Inc.
President Michael Ivanovitch said.  OTHER MARKETS:
Crude Oil Declines as Stronger Dollar Reduces Commodity Appeal  Crude oil fell for a second day after the dollar
strengthened, reducing the appeal of commodities as an
investment, and as Saudi Arabia signaled that OPEC may leave oil
production quotas unchanged.  Yen Climbs Toward 15-Year High Versus Dollar as Equities Drop  The yen gained toward a 15-year high against the dollar and
reached its strongest this month versus the euro as Asian
equities dropped, boosting demand for the safety of Japan’s
assets.  Dollar Weakness Overstates Fed as IMF Sees G-3 Growth  The dollar’s biggest quarterly decline in eight years may
be setting the stage for a rally, if some of Wall Street’s top
strategists are to be believed. 