-- Ex-Goldman Sachs Traders Raise $1.5 Billion for New Hedge Funds
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2010-10-12T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/ex-goldman-traders-are-said-to-raise-1-5-billion-to-establish-hedge-funds.html
Eric Mandelblatt expects to have
raised at least $500 million when his Soroban Capital Partners
LLC begins trading stocks next month, according to two people
with direct knowledge of the New York-based hedge-fund firm.  At least two other managers, Mark Carhart and Pierre-Henri Flamand, are slated to open in coming months with half a billion
dollars or more each, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the firms are private. Helping all three traders pull in
at least 10 times more than most hedge-fund startups this year
may be one line on their resumes:  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  “It’s an incredibly difficult environment,” said Emma Sugarman, head of the U.S. capital introductions group at BNP
Paribas SA in New York, which helps  hedge funds  meet investors.
“There does, however, seem to be an appetite for people who
have a certain pedigree.”  The $1.6 trillion hedge-fund industry attracted a net $23.3
billion in the first half, a pace that would make 2010 the
third-worst year for deposits into the private investment pools
since 2001, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.
Most new funds are raising $30 million to $50 million, according
to bankers who work with startups.  The three former Goldman Sachs managers have what many
investors in new funds are looking for, including a strong track
record and a team who they’ve worked with in the past, said
Larry Chiarello, a partner at SkyView Investment Advisors LLC in
Shrewsbury,  New Jersey . Investors are also gravitating toward
startups with full trading and administrative staffs.  Proprietary Traders  Carhart’s New York-based Kepos Capital LP has 27 employees,
while Flamand’s Edoma Capital Services Ltd. in  London  has a
payroll of 24, according to the people briefed on their plans.  Executives at the three firms all declined to comment.  The fundraising success of traders with a Goldman Sachs
pedigree may bode well for others who leave as the New York-
based bank disbands its principal-strategies business to comply
with new U.S. regulations aimed at curbing risk.  The head of that group, Hong Kong-based Morgan Sze, may
start a hedge fund focused on  Asia , two people with knowledge of
the matter said last month. A U.S. team of proprietary traders
from Goldman Sachs has been talking to fund manager Avenue
Capital Group, buyout firm KKR & Co. and investment bank Perella
Weinberg Partners LP about joining one of those firms.  Mandelblatt, 34, started as an energy analyst at Goldman
Sachs in 1998. In 2002, he joined the principal strategies
group, which traded the bank’s own money, becoming chief
operating officer of the unit’s U.S. business two years later.  After he left Goldman in 2005, Mandelblatt went to TPG-Axon
Capital Management LP, where he was co-chief executive officer.
He is starting Soroban with Gaurav Kapadia and Scott Friedman,
who were both at New York-based TPG-Axon.  Global Alpha Fund  Carhart, 44, will begin trading client money at Kepos in
January. He was co-head of Goldman’s quantitative investment-
management group and its Global Alpha hedge fund. From 1998
through early 2009, when Carhart left the bank, Global Alpha
averaged returns of 12 percent a year. The fund, which bought
and sold securities based on computer models, lost 40 percent in
2007 and climbed 2 percent in 2008.  Kepos will also use computers to trade debt, equities and
currencies in developed and emerging markets.  Flamand, 40, will open Edoma in November to trade the
stocks and bonds of companies going through corporate events
such as mergers and bankruptcies. He worked at Goldman Sachs for
15 years and ran its principal strategies group from London from
2007 until he left in March. He is joined at Edoma by former
colleagues Ali Hedayat and Emmanuel Niogret.  Former Goldman Sachs traders who founded their own hedge
funds include  Eric Mindich , who started New York-based Eton Park
Capital Management LP with $3 billion in 2004, and  Dinakar Singh , who left the investment bank in 2004 to co-found TPG-
Axon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  