-- Marc Faber Says World Heading for `Major Inflection Point'
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2010-10-12T06:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/faber-sees-global-turning-point-credit-bubble-update1-.html
Global markets are heading for an
“important turning point” as interest rates begin to rise
within about three months and the U.S. dollar gains, according
to investor  Marc Faber .  Investors should buy stocks and sell cash and bonds because
governments are continuing to print too much money and may
create a new “credit bubble,” Faber, publisher of the  Gloom,
Boom & Doom  report, told reporters during a forum in Seoul today.  “Instead of interest rates going down, they could start to
go up, instead of the dollar being weak, it could strengthen,”
Faber said. “I’m ultra-bearish on everything, but I believe
you’ll be better off owning shares than government bonds.”  The Dollar Index slid 8.5 percent last quarter, the most
since June 2002, and dropped 1.3 percent this month after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he may add
money to the economy. That new supply is reflected in exchange
rates, based on how the currency  reacted  to the last round of
so-called quantitative easing, said HSBC Holdings Plc, BNP
Paribas SA and Nordea Bank AB. The central banks of Israel and
Taiwan raised borrowing costs in the last 15 days.  Faber’s recommendation on stocks is shared by  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Omaha, Nebraska-based
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  Investors buying bonds now “are making
a mistake,” he said Oct. 5 at Fortune magazine’s Most Powerful
Women conference in Washington.  Buffett, Stocks  “It’s quite clear that stocks are cheaper than bonds,”
Buffett said. “I can’t imagine anyone having bonds in their
portfolio when they can own equities.”  U.S.  stock dividends  are paying more than government bonds.
Ten-year Treasuries yield 5.2 percentage points less than
equities of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index when
adjusted for annual inflation, near the most since March 2009.  Faber told investors to abandon U.S. stocks a week before
1987’s so-called Black Monday crash and said in August 2007 that
U.S. shares were entering a bear market. The  S&P 500  peaked two
months later before retreating as much as 57 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  