-- FDIC Approves Interim Rule to Prevent Repeat of Lehman
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-10-12T20:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/fdic-approves-interim-liquidation-rule-to-avoid-repeat-of-lehman-meltdown.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
board approved interim guidelines to help clarify its procedures
for liquidating complex financial firms when they collapse,
including permitting better treatment for some creditors when it
benefits the estate or broader economy.  The FDIC, which had delayed its vote at the request of
members of the  Financial Stability Oversight Council , today
proposed a temporary rule asserting that all creditors must be
prepared to absorb losses in an agency-run liquidation. Some may
continue to receive payments to maintain system stability or
maximize recoveries, the FDIC said.  “We’re trying to provide additional market clarity to
stakeholders who had expressed concern that we would
differentiate in a way that would be abusive or harmful,” FDIC
Chairman  Sheila Bair  said in a conference call with reporters.
“We’re trying to provide some additional reassurance.”  The  Dodd-Frank law , the most sweeping overhaul of financial
regulation since the Great Depression, gave the FDIC authority
to wind down failing systemically important firms in response to
the 2008 credit crisis, when the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. destabilized markets and forced the U.S. to bail
out companies including  American International Group Inc.   “This is a significant narrowing of the discretion that
the FDIC has in Dodd-Frank,” Bair said.  Banking-Industry Concerns  Attempting to assuage banking-industry uncertainty about
how creditors would be treated in a resolution, the FDIC
included a provision barring shareholders, long-term bondholders
and subordinated debt holders from bridge entities formed to
manage healthy parts of failed firms. Some short-term creditors
might be brought into a bridge entity if they are deemed
essential to its operation.  Holders of those claims must be approved by the FDIC board
before any payments are made, according to the interim rule.  The agency would continue payments to nonessential
creditors only “if we had clear bids from interested acquirers
that said we would pay more if you don’t impose losses,” Bair
said. It “would strictly be a mathematical test” about whether
it would “improve franchise value,” she said.  Wall Street bankers including JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  urged Congress to create the
resolution authority. Questions about how the mechanism would
work began to emerge after President  Barack Obama  enacted the
Dodd-Frank measure in July.  Creditor Protection  At an FDIC forum in August, executives from banks including
JPMorgan and Bank of America Corp. raised questions about plans
for creditor protection and maintaining financial-system
integrity in the event of a collapse requiring a wind-down. The
executives, including Citigroup Inc.’s  Hamid Biglari , said
uncertainty about credit protections might raise costs and sap
the short-term funding necessary for an orderly wind-down.  “It’s very important that the market understands this is
not a bailout,” said  Michael Krimminger , an FDIC senior policy
adviser. “We will be strictly construing the statutory
authority to provide payments where it’s necessary to continue
operations so we can maximize the value of the assets.”  The FDIC also won’t automatically repudiate contingency
claims, such as a guarantee or a letter of credit, because a
firm is in receivership at the time the claim comes due. The
agency, after putting a firm in receivership, would make an
independent evaluation on whether the obligation would be met.  The agency will hold a 30-day comment period on the rule
and hold a 90-day comment period on the broader questions
introduced by the agency. A final rule is expected in the first
quarter of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  