-- Fed to Conduct Repos With Money Funds for First Time to Prepare for Exit
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-12T14:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/fed-to-conduct-repos-with-money-funds-for-first-time-to-prepare-for-exit.html
The Federal Reserve will conduct
tri-party reverse repurchase agreements with money funds for the
first time tomorrow as it prepares for an eventual withdrawal of
the central bank’s unprecedented  monetary stimulus .  The transaction, part of a series first announced last
year, doesn’t represent any change in monetary policy, the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York said today on its  website .
The operation will also include the primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed as counterparties, using all eligible
collateral types.  The Fed has been expanding its counterparties as the 18
securities firms that act as primary dealers work to shore up
their own balance sheets after the worst financial crisis in
decades. The Fed expanded its list of counterparties used for
reverse repurchase agreements in August to add money market
funds managed by 14 firms, including Fidelity Investments and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The new firms aren’t eligible to
participate in other transactions.  The central bank is putting the infrastructure in place to
remove or neutralize the more than $1 trillion in extra cash
from the Fed’s  balance sheet  even as policy makers contemplate
buying additional securities to ensure that the economic
recovery takes hold.  The Fed drained $1.53 billion in funds in August with tri-
party reverse repurchase agreements with primary dealers as part
of the program, including for the first time agency mortgage
backed securities as collateral. The New York Fed drained  $990
million  in reserves from the banking system through five
operations in December.  Reverse Repos  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to the primary dealers.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party functions as the
agent for the transaction and holds the security as collateral.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp. are the
only banks that serve in a trade-clearing capacity in the tri-
party repo market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  