-- Fed Officials Were Prepared to Ease `Before Long,' Minutes Say
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-10-12T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/fed-officials-were-prepared-to-ease-policy-before-long-minutes-show.html
Federal Reserve policy makers last
month were prepared to ease monetary policy “before long” and
focused on purchases of Treasury securities and boosting
inflation expectations as ways to add stimulus.  Policy makers “wanted to consider further the most
effective framework for calibrating and communicating any
additional steps to provide such stimulus,” the Fed said in
minutes of the Sept. 21 session, released today in Washington.
The Fed also said for the first time that it was considering
targeting a path for the level of nominal gross domestic product
as a way to increase price expectations.  The report provides more clarity on the timing and
components of potential easing actions without giving the amount
of any additional asset purchases by the Fed. Since the meeting,
weaker-than-forecast job growth in September and comments by
policy makers, including New York Fed President  William Dudley ,
have fueled speculation that the central bank will soon start a
second wave of unconventional easing.  “Many participants noted that if economic growth remained
too slow to make satisfactory progress toward reducing the
unemployment rate or if inflation continued to come in below
levels consistent with the FOMC’s dual mandate, it would be
appropriate to provide additional monetary policy
accommodation,” the Fed’s  Open Market Committee  said in the
minutes.  The Sept. 21 statement saying the Fed “is prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed” was meant to accord
“with the members’ sense that such accommodation may be
appropriate before long,” the minutes said.  Possible Approaches  “Meeting participants discussed several possible
approaches to providing additional accommodation but focused
primarily on further purchases of longer-term Treasury
securities and on possible steps to affect inflation
expectations,” the report said.  The minutes caution that some officials said the economic
benefits of further asset purchases “could be small in current
circumstances.” Also, some policy makers “thought that
additional accommodation would be warranted only if the outlook
worsened and the odds of deflation increased materially,” the
report said.  The Fed’s Sept. 21 statement was the first in almost two
years of near-zero interest rates to say too-low inflation would
warrant looser monetary policy. By raising inflation
expectations, real short-term interest rates would be lower,
stimulating the economy, the minutes said.  Lower Forecasts  Fed staff economists lowered their U.S. growth forecast for
the third straight meeting. The economy will grow at a slower
pace than previously projected in the second half of 2010 and
next year, the minutes said.  Fed governors and regional presidents last presented
economic projections in June and will revise their forecasts at
the Nov. 2-3 meeting. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled
to speak in Boston Oct. 15 on monetary policy tools.  Central bankers “generally agreed that the incoming data
indicated that output and employment were increasing only slowly
and at rates well below those recorder earlier in the year,”
the minutes said. Policy makers saw data on business and
household spending as “mixed” and said that residential
construction and home sales were “very weak.”  “Nevertheless, participants judged the economic recovery
to be continuing and generally expected growth to pick up
gradually next year,” the minutes said.  Recession Ends  While the National Bureau of Economic Research said last
month that the worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression
ended in June 2009, economic growth slowed to an annualized 1.7
percent rate in the second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first
period.  The economy probably expanded at a 1.9 percent pace in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month.  “A number of participants noted that the current sluggish
pace of employment growth was insufficient to reduce
unemployment at a satisfactory pace,” the minutes said. The
 unemployment rate  held at 9.6 percent in September while
payrolls fell by 95,000 workers after a revised 57,000 decrease
in August, government figures showed Oct. 8. Private employers
added 64,000 jobs in September, less than forecast.  The number of workers employed by local governments fell to
the lowest level since October 2006 as U.S. cities and towns
reduced the ranks of teachers and other employees in a bid to
cut costs.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co ., the New York-based
drugmaker, said in September it will cut 3 percent of its global
workforce, about 840 jobs, during the next six months.  Underlying Inflation  The Fed minutes said most officials saw underlying
inflation as below levels consistent with central bank
objectives. The Sept. 21 FOMC statement said “measures of
underlying inflation are currently at levels somewhat below
those the committee judges most consistent, over the longer
run,” with its legislative mandate for maximum employment and
stable prices.  At the same time, “participants saw only small odds of
deflation,” the report said.  Prices excluding food and energy have gained at a 1 percent
annual pace in the three months through August, below Fed
officials’ long-term preferred range of about 1.7 percent to 2
percent.  At the same time, Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s prices rose in
September to the highest level in at least 21 months, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co., as the world’s largest retailer scaled
back discounts from earlier this year.  Dudley Comments  Dudley, who serves as FOMC vice chairman and is the only
regional Fed president to vote at every meeting, said in an Oct.
1 speech that “further action is likely to be warranted unless
the economic outlook evolves in a way that makes me more
confident that we will see better outcomes for both employment
and inflation before too long.”  Other officials who indicated since the meeting that they
favor further easing include Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , who said Sept. 29 the Fed should respond
“vigorously, creatively, thoughtfully and persistently” to a
slow recovery, and Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , who said
more action may be “desirable.”  Opponents of further easing include Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser , who said Sept. 29 that he doesn’t see
how additional asset purchases will help employment in the near
term.  Richard Fisher  of the Dallas Fed said Oct. 7 that the
“efficacy of further accommodation at this point has yet to be
established.”  Hoenig Dissents  Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  was the only voting
FOMC member to go against the decision for the sixth time this
year, tying a record for most consecutive dissents at regular
meetings since 1955.  In a speech earlier today, Hoenig, the Fed’s longest-
serving current policy maker, cast doubt on the effectiveness of
a new round of asset purchases, saying the costs are likely to
outweigh the benefits.  Christina Romer , who resigned last month as chairman of
President  Barack Obama ’s Council of Economic Advisers, yesterday
urged further “unconventional policy” such as additional asset
purchases, lowering the interest rate on reserves or aggressive
communication.  That “could absolutely be helpful and absolutely should be
tried,” Romer said yesterday at a forum on central banking at
the National Press Club in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  