-- Federal Reserve Sued by Minnesota Bank on Debit Caps
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-12T18:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/federal-reserve-sued-by-minnesota-bank-over-limits-on-credit-card-fees.html
TCF Financial Corp. , a Minnesota
bank, sued the Federal Reserve to block a U.S. law that limits
the fees charged to retailers on debit-card transactions.  The provision of the Dodd-Frank Act known as the Durbin
Amendment puts the biggest U.S. banks at a competitive
disadvantage by forcing them to provide debit-card services
below cost and by exempting smaller banks, Wayzata-based TCF
said in a lawsuit filed today in federal court in Sioux Falls,
South Dakota.  The law is akin to Congress telling Burger King “you can
only charge for the hamburger and the bun,” TCF Chief Executive
Officer  William A. Cooper  said in a telephone interview.
“Ignore all the costs of the overhead and the cooks and the
advertising.”  The bank claims that the law unconstitutionally takes away
its property in the form of legitimate fees and violates its
right to equal protection by favoring smaller banks. TCF seeks a
court order declaring the measure unconstitutional and an
injunction barring its enforcement.  The provision, pushed by U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin ,
directs the Fed to set interchange, or “swipe” fees, that are
“reasonable and proportional” to the cost of processing debit
transactions. It excludes banks with assets of less than $10
billion, or about 99 percent of all U.S. lenders.  ‘Fundamentally Misunderstands’  TCF “fundamentally misunderstands” the law, Durbin, a
Democrat and the senior senator from Illinois, said in a
statement responding to the lawsuit. The law doesn’t set
interchange rates, he said.  “Our language simply ensures that debit interchange fees
charged to retailers by the card networks -- not the banks --
are ‘reasonable and proportional’ to the cost of processing
transactions,” Durbin said.  Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. , the world’s biggest
electronic-payment networks, set interchange fees and pass the
money to card-issuing banks. Interchange is the largest
component of the fees U.S. merchants pay when they accept Visa
and MasterCard debit cards.  The fees last year totaled $19.7 billion and averaged 1.6
percent of each sale, according to the Nilson Report, an
industry newsletter.  The case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-cv-04149,
U.S. District Court for South Dakota (Sioux Falls).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 