-- FirstEnergy Purchase of Allegheny Should be Blocked, Governor Rendell Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-10-12T17:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/firstenergy-purchase-of-allegheny-should-be-blocked-governor-rendell-says.html
Pennsylvania Governor  Edward G. Rendell  called on state utility regulators to deny  FirstEnergy
Corp. ’s purchase of  Allegheny Energy Inc. , saying the deal would
eliminate jobs and increase electricity prices.  The purchase may eliminate 980 jobs in southwestern
Pennsylvania and reduce competition in electricity markets,
leading to higher prices, Rendell said in a statement today.
Rendell directed the state’s Department of Environmental
Protection to file a brief urging the commission to reject it.  “This merger would be a great deal for Wall Street and
Ohio, but terrible for Pennsylvania’s workers and consumers,”
he said. Due to term limits, Rendell, a Democrat, can’t run for
re-election and will be replaced as governor in January.  FirstEnergy  agreed to buy  Greensburg, Pennsylvania-based
Allegheny Energy Inc. in February for $4.3 billion in stock and
the assumption of about $3.8 billion in net debt. The companies
need the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission’s approval.  FirstEnergy and Allegheny said in a joint press release
they “respectfully disagree” with the governor. The companies
cited the support of labor unions, as well as local chambers of
congress.  The purchase would improve the reliability of electric
service and reduce prices through cost savings and efficiencies,
the companies said. Virginia regulators have approved the deal
and the companies said they hope to get the remaining state and
federal permissions by the first half of next year.  Other Approvals  The issue of reduced competition from combining the
companies is also being looked at by federal regulators and
Maryland’s Public Service Commission, said  Paul Patterson , a
utility analyst at Glenrock Associates LLC in New York.  FirstEnergy, based in Akron, Ohio,  fell  6 cents to $38.38
at 1:12 p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
after the announcement. The shares have fallen 17 percent this
year.  Allegheny Energy Inc. fell 28 cents to $24.10. The shares
have risen 2.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 