-- Flaherty Says Canada to Erase Budget Deficit by 2015 on Lower Debt Charges
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-10-12T18:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/flaherty-said-to-give-canada-budget-update-that-restates-plan-for-balance.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  today said the country will become the first in the
Group of Seven to balance its budget by 2015, even as the
government made more cautious revenue projections and accounted
for new stimulus measures it announced last month.  In  an update  today of his March 4 fiscal plan, Flaherty
projected a surplus in the fiscal year that begins April 1,
2015. The projection includes the cost of additional stimulus
measures and a dimming outlook for growth that raises the
cumulative deficit through 2014-15 to C$165.2 billion ($163.4
billion), C$6.8 billion more than earlier forecast.  Returning to surplus may take more of an effort than
initially projected because of a weak U.S. recovery that lead to
less demand for Canadian goods and services. The government will
use more cautious growth forecasts than those made by the
economists Flaherty consults because risks are titled to the
“downside,” according to the document.  “Current global challenges, particularly the uncertainty
surrounding the strength of the U.S. recovery, pose a risk to
the Canadian economic and fiscal outlook,” Flaherty said in a
 speech  today in Mississauga, Ontario. “In light of the downside
risks in the near term to the global outlook, the government has
judged it appropriate to adjust downward the private sector
forecast for nominal GDP for fiscal planning purposes.”  The deficit for the 2009-10 fiscal year, which ended March
31, was raised to C$55.6 billion from the original C$53.8
billion.  No New Spending  The budget update didn’t contain any new spending or tax
measures. The governing Conservatives are relying on higher
employment insurance premiums, coupled with spending restraints
on defense and operating expenses, to help the country lower its
deficit.  The government has been criticized by opposition parties
for planning to press ahead with corporate tax cuts while
raising payroll taxes.  Flaherty on Sept. 30 scaled back plans to withdraw stimulus
by limiting proposed increases to payroll taxes amid signs of a
slowing recovery. Canada will raise premiums for employment
insurance by 5 cents per C$100, less than the 15 cent maximum
that was initially recommended by an independent panel. The
measure will cost the government C$5.3 billion in forgone
revenue over the next four budgets.  The higher deficit in 2009-10 is due to C$5.6 billion in
additional “policy decisions and accounting changes,” the
budget document showed.  The budget update increased the forecast for 2010 economic
 growth , which is based on the average forecasts from private
economists, and reduced the outlook for 2011. Growth this year
is projected to be 3 percent, up from the earlier 2.6 percent
forecast, while 2011 growth was cut to 2.5 percent from 3.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  