-- Florida's Sink Closes Governor Race to `Dead Heat' With Scott, Survey Says
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-10-12T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/florida-s-sink-closes-governor-race-to-dead-heat-with-scott-survey-says.html
Democrat  Alex Sink , Florida’s
finance chief, has pulled into a “statistical tie” with
Republican  Rick Scott , after trailing the former health care
executive, according to a new survey.  Sink, the state’s finance chief, was supported by 44
percent of likely voters to 45 percent for Scott, the survey
from the  Quinnipiac University Polling Institute  said. Sink
trailed with 43 percent to Scott’s 49 percent in an Oct. 1 poll.  Sink narrowed the gap as the candidates traded accusations
about their business careers in the past two weeks, said  Peter A. Brown , the polling institute’s assistant director, in a
statement with the latest survey results. In campaign
advertising, Sink, 62, and Scott, 58, have accused each other of
ethical lapses.  “The debate through television ads about their respective
business careers may be the reason,” he said. “She is winning
that debate handily and it is having an impact on the race.”  Sink  has stressed   Scott’s ties  to HCA Inc., a hospital
management company that has paid more than $1.7 billion related
to Medicare fraud claims. Scott has  accused  Sink of funneling
$770,000 in state fees on bond-sale contracts to  Bank of America
Corp. , where until 2000 she was head of Florida operations,
overseeing about 9,000 employees.  Scott’s Career  Scott started what became HCA in 1987 with two hospitals,
building it to 340 institutions and $20 billion in annual
revenue by 1997, when he left, according to his campaign
 website . In March 1997, the U.S. government made public its
investigation of the company’s Medicare billing practices. Scott
wasn’t charged with wrongdoing and went on to start another
health-care company,  Solantic Corp. , in Jacksonville, Florida.  Scott’s claims about Sink are based on a 2009 St.
Petersburg Times  report , which said Sink participated in the
approval of negotiated, or no-bid, contracts to sell state debt
by an underwriting team that included Bank of America. One deal
netted a bank unit $770,000 in fees, the report said. Negotiated
sales of municipal bonds aren’t unusual. Others that approved
the deals included the governor and members of his cabinet.  Sink was judged more ethical in her business career than
Scott by 44 percent to 28 percent of likely voters, according to
the Hamden, Connecticut-based survey group. Sink’s surge may be
tied to that perception, as 89 percent of respondents told
pollsters that a candidate’s business record helps determine who
they support, the institute said.  Shift by Independents  Independent voters, or those not aligned with any party,
have shifted their support to Sink from Scott, the survey said.
Independents favored Sink 51 percent to 34 percent for Scott,
compared with 40 percent for the Democrat and 46 percent for the
Republican on Oct. 1, Quinnipiac said.  “The big reason for Sink’s move into parity with Scott has
been the turnaround in independent voters,” Brown said.
“Independents are the most likely to be moved by questions
about a candidate’s ethics.”  As of August, Florida had about 4.62 million registered
Democrats, 4.02 million Republicans and 2.17 million
independents, according to the Florida Elections Division
 website .  Among the 34 percent of likely voters who said the  economy 
is getting worse, Scott leads 58 percent to 25 percent for Sink.
The Democrat leads 69 percent to 22 percent among the 20 percent
of respondents who said the economy is getting better.  The telephone survey of 1,055 likely voters has a margin of
error of plus or minus three percentage points and was taken
Oct. 6-10, Quinnipiac said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 