-- Food Security of Less Concern Because of Weaker Demand, UN Agency Predicts
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2010-10-12T10:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/food-security-of-less-concern-because-of-weaker-demand-un-agency-predicts.html
Food security is of less concern in
2010 than in recent years, even as prices rise, because grain
stocks are plentiful and a weakened global economy will stunt
demand, according to the United Nations’ food agency.  World wheat inventories at the end of May were the highest
since 2002, and the amount of rice in storage at the close of
July was the largest in seven years, U.S. Department of
Agriculture  data show . Corn prices have jumped 12 percent in the
past three sessions after a USDA report showed output would be
less than expected.  Ample wheat and rice inventories will outweigh rising
prices because food insecurity is usually based on strong
demand, said  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist at the UN’s
Food and Agriculture Organization. The worst global recession
since World War II means demand for grain to feed people and
livestock for human consumption will be lower than in 2008, when
shortages sparked riots from Egypt to Haiti, he said.  “Economic growth is not as positive as in 2007 or 2008,
which is an engine behind demand,” Abbassian said by telephone
from Rome. “Stockpiles are not as low as they were in 2007, and
petrol energy prices are half as high. Whether these spikes in
prices would lead us to a food crisis situation, it is something
we do not consider as a possibility.”  Rice Sowing  Because global supply and demand are “fragile,” food
security may be compromised if plantings of wheat, rice, corn
and soybeans were to decline in the current marketing year that
started in June, he said. Rice was harvested from about 155.1
million hectares (383 million acres) in the year through July,
down from 159.7 million a year earlier, USDA data show.  About 226.1 million hectares of wheat was harvested in the
year through May, up 0.3 percent from the prior year, USDA
figures show. This year the harvesting area will shrink 2
percent, according to the U.S. government.  “We need higher production year after another,” Abbassian
said. “We have to see what plantings are going to look like
next season and if the prices we have right now are going to get
higher. In my view, wheat prices and rice prices are testing
high levels now. Their potential upside is limited.”  Wheat and rice prices that started rising in June because
of adverse global weather will start to affect poorer nations
this month because gains in futures markets take 60 to 90 days
to reach consumers, Abbassian said. Countries such as Mozambique
that were affected in 2008 when wheat and rice surged to records
are now better prepared, he said.  Corn Harvest  The crisis two years ago “taught some lessons,” Abbassian
said. “Countries are not doing panic buying like they did in
2007 and 2008. They have been a bit more cautious about letting
high prices get transferred to poor consumers.”  The USDA  report  on Oct. 8 that showed corn production would
fall 3.4 percent from a year earlier was a surprise, Abbassian
said, especially after a Sept. 24 FAO meeting when U.S.
delegates assured him that production estimates would remain
steady. The drop predicted would reduce reserve stocks before
the 2011 harvest to the lowest level since 1997.  “Something like what happened on Friday is totally
unacceptable,” he said. “I was surprised to see that there was
so much revision. The U.S. delegation was assuring us how good
the crop was there. I don’t know what happened between Sept. 24
and Oct. 8 that made them make such a huge revision. I hope it
won’t be repeated in the future.”  With the global economy starting to improve and demand from
China for grains and oilseeds rising, world supplies may become
“tight” if production were to drop in coming years, Abbassian
said. Still, ample global stockpiles and slack demand should be
enough to prevent a recurrence of 2008’s rioting, he said.  “The situation has the potential to develop into a serious
concern, but for time being, it seems like it’s well managed,”
Abbassian said. “As we move on to next year, the critical issue
is what will happen in terms of planting and production. We have
to watch the spring very carefully.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 