-- Foreclosure Delays May Cost U.S. Banks Up to $6 Billion, FBR's Miller Says
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2010-10-12T17:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/foreclosure-delays-may-cost-u-s-banks-up-to-6-billion-fbr-s-miller-says.html
Faulty  foreclosures  may cost U.S.
lenders $2 billion for every month that home seizures are
delayed and the tab could reach $6 billion, according to  Paul Miller , the bank analyst at FBR Capital Markets.  Investigations of how banks are seizing homes may prolong
foreclosures by as much as three months, at a rough cost of
$1,000 per month for each property in the pipeline, Miller, a
former bank examiner, said in an interview today. The biggest
firms likely need to add staff to comb through the files,
costing them each $1 million a year, he said.  “The real true cost is not the expenses, it’s the drag in
the foreclosure system,” Miller said.  Attorneys general, consumer groups and some lawmakers have
pressed mortgage firms to follow  Bank of America Corp. , the
biggest U.S. lender, which last week suspended all foreclosures
to check whether faulty documents were used to confiscate homes.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage
unit froze seizures or evictions in 23 states.  A wider moratorium on seizures may endanger a U.S. economic
recovery, Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd 
said in a speech in New York today. His panel has set a  Nov. 16
hearing  to examine mortgage-servicing and foreclosure practices.  “A broad, sweeping moratorium is probably unwise,” the
Connecticut Democrat said. “There are many institutions that
are actually engaging the foreclosure process intelligently and
well and doing a good job. To stop that across the board from
happening would be very harmful for the economy.”  ‘Unintended Consequences’  President Barack Obama also is rejecting a nationwide
freeze on home foreclosures because of potential “unintended
consequences,” White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  said
today. The remarks reinforce comments by White House senior
adviser  David Axelrod , who said on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
program Oct. 10 that a moratorium may damage the housing market.  Obama does support efforts by state attorneys general to
examine allegedly faulty home foreclosures, Gibbs said.  Attorneys general in about 40 states may announce this week
a joint probe of potentially faulty foreclosures at the largest
U.S. banks and mortgage firms, a person with direct knowledge of
the matter said Oct. 8. The inquiry may focus on claims that
employees at home lenders and loan servicers signed court
documents without ensuring the information was accurate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 