-- Former Morgan Stanley Banker Makes Frog Musical
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-10-12T14:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/former-morgan-stanley-banker-seeks-fortune-s-kiss-in-festival-frog-musical.html
In 1992,  Eric Schorr  left an
investment advisory job at  Merrill Lynch & Co . and a mid-six-
figure income to compose music fulltime.  At a 140-seat church west of Times Square, theatergoers can
assess whether they think it was a good trade.  “ Frog Kiss ,” with music by Schorr and lyrics and book by
Charles Leipart, is wrapping up a run at the  New York Musical
Theatre Festival . (The last performance is tomorrow.)  Inspired by the fairy tale of the frog and the princess,
it’s light, tuneful and appealing to creatures tall and small.  “He’s one of our up-and-coming voices,” said actress
 Rebecca Luker , who recently performed in “Mary Poppins” on
Broadway and has recorded demos of Schorr and Leipart’s songs.
“He certainly deserves a big break.”  At age four in Boston, Schorr was playing children’s songs
by ear on piano. His parents arranged for lessons in jazz and
classical piano.  At Yale University, he studied economics, majored in
physics, sang with an a cappella group and worked as music
director for campus musicals.  “I realized there was a lot of fun mathematics in finance
and economics,” he said over lunch in the theater district.  Secret Life  Schorr went on to  Yale School of Management  and then  Morgan
Stanley , where he was an associate in corporate finance. He
didn’t abandon music with his 12-hour days. He played jazz piano
at a Chelsea diner Friday nights, 11 p.m. to 3 a.m.  “It was my weekly release from work,” he said. “I would
feel cleansed. I didn’t need as much sleep as I do now.”  In his second year at Morgan Stanley, he would tiptoe out
of the office early on Mondays for the  BMI Lehman Engel Musical
Theatre Workshop  to study songwriting.  His writing partner was  Amy Powers , formerly an associate
at  White & Case LLP . “We were the two corporate oddballs,” she
said from Los Angeles, where she produces theater and still
writes lyrics.  Powers said Schorr composed quickly. “He wasn’t one of
those pull-your-hair-out guys. The fountain was on.”  Schorr said he wasn’t as passionate about Wall Street as
music.  “The work becomes as much about politics as doing the
work,” he said. “I knew I would never be managing director.
Occasionally, I would leave before my boss, which I guess you
shouldn’t do.”  Playing Piano  He left the business after five years, initially
supplementing his income playing piano at parties. His musicals
have been presented at the  New York International Fringe
Festival ,  Edinburgh Festival Fringe , off-Broadway and by
 TheatreworksUSA .  With an irregular paycheck, Schorr said he lives frugally
in a one-bedroom Greenwich Village apartment.  “Frog Kiss” was commissioned by a Toronto producing
company. Orchestrator Daryl Waters, who orchestrated Broadway’s
“ Memphis ,” calls it “musical theater through a jazz filter.”  Schorr is working on a show about an American woman in 1879
who gets a full-body tattoo in Japan, where he spent several
months doing research on a grant from the  Asian Cultural
Council . He’s hopeful “Frog Kiss” will be produced by a
regional U.S. theater, where he and Leipart can work on it
further.  Tamara Tunie, an actress and producer who assembled most of
the creative team, is the show’s “production adviser.”  “We’ve had potential investors and producers come, who had
a favorable reaction,” Schorr said. “When and if boffo success
happens, I’ll be very happy. Even doing this is so
overwhelmingly satisfying.”  “Frog Kiss” will be performed tomorrow at Theater at St.
Clement’s, 423 W. 46th St. Information: +1-212-352-3101.
 http://www.nymf.org/show-1299.html .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 