-- Swiss Franc Strengthens Against Euro, Dollar on Fed Bond Purchase Concerns
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-12T15:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/franc-weakens-against-dollar-as-investors-speculate-over-more-fed-easing.html
The Swiss franc strengthened against
the euro and dollar as stocks fell amid speculation the Federal
Reserve may be close to restarting asset purchases, driving
demand for the currency as a haven.  The franc gained for the third straight day against the 16-
nation euro before the release of minutes from the Federal Open
Market Committee’s meeting on Sept. 21, when the U.S. central
bank said it was willing to consider easing monetary policy
further in a program known as quantitative easing. The FOMC is
divided, with the Fed presidents from New York and Chicago
voicing support for more purchases, while those from
Philadelphia and Dallas have said such actions may not work. The
 MSCI World Index  fell 0.5 percent, snapping five days of gains.  “Equities are down, commodities are down, so it could be a
risk-off move into the franc,” said  Stephan Maier , a foreign-
exchange strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “The moves could
be motivated by the fact there is nervousness before the FOMC
minutes tonight because they may raise more doubts about the
effectiveness of more QE in helping the U.S. economy.”  The Swiss currency strengthened 0.8 percent to 1.3285 per
euro as of 4.14 p.m. in London, its largest intraday move in
more than a week. It appreciated 0.5 percent against the dollar
to 95.99 centimes, close to a record of 95.55 centimes recorded
on Oct. 7, and reversing an earlier decline of as much as 0.8
percent.  Stimulate Recovery  “Investors are already convinced the Fed will do more
quantitative easing” and it has been priced in, Maier said.
“The main game now is to evaluate how much easing they will do
and how much the dollar will weaken on that.”  Concern the Fed will significantly expand its purchases of
government debt deepened after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on
Oct. 4 that more monetary easing has “the ability to ease
financial conditions.”  Brian Sack , the New York Fed’s markets
group chief, also said a further expansion of the central bank’s
balance sheet would help stimulate an economic recovery that is
forecast to be “relatively tepid.”  “There is a lot of uncertainty in the market over whether
a second round of quantitative easing would be as effective as
the first, because it is unlikely to be as large,” said  Simon Smollett , a foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Agricole SA in
London.  The franc has climbed 5.6 percent this year against a
basket of currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  