-- Freeport Says M&A Targets Limited, May Return Cash
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2010-10-12T20:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/freeport-aggressively-seeks-ways-to-invest-says-m-a-limited-.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. ,
the world’s biggest publicly traded copper producer, said
opportunities for acquisitions are limited and the company may
study returning excess cash to shareholders.  “It’s a very competitive market out there,” Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Adkerson  said today in an interview in
London. “That leans you heavily toward internal investments. We
are aggressively looking for ways to invest.”  Adkerson, 63, has cut Freeport’s total  debt  by 72 percent
since the completion of the company’s $26 billion acquisition of
rival U.S. copper miner Phelps Dodge Corp. in March 2007.
Freeport, which had $3 billion in  cash  at June 30, forecasts
spending $1.7 billion on mines and expansions this year. It may
boost future spending, Adkerson said.  “We’re likely to earn cash in addition to that required
for those investments so that would give us the opportunity for
our board to consider returns to shareholders which have been
part of the tradition at Freeport,” he said.  Freeport  rose 5 cents to $95.43 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 19
percent this year, giving Freeport a market capitalization of
$44.9 billion.  Commodities companies have announced $420 billion of
mergers and acquisitions so far this year. BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s biggest miner, made a $40 billion hostile offer for
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. in August.  Limited Opportunities  “The opportunities are very limited and we are not
planning our business with an expectation that that’s going to
happen,” Adkerson said. “I’d love to have one, love to have
the opportunity, but we don’t have the expectation.”  Freeport is a likely acquisition target given it’s the
biggest publicly traded copper producer, Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. said in an Oct. 7 report, which cited the company as one of
13 possible mining takeover candidates. Still, the cost of a
takeover may deter bidders, Sanford C. Bernstein said.  “We haven’t developed a strategy to set ourselves up as a
target,” Adkerson said. “We’re really focused on creating
shareholder value.”  The company owns the Grasberg mine in Indonesia, which
according to its  website  is the world’s biggest recoverable
copper reserve and largest gold reserve. It also owns 57.8
percent of the $1.8 billion Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt
mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo where production
started last year.  Freeport and the Congolese government have been in dispute
about the terms of the Tenke contract for the past three years,
after the Mines Ministry began a review of mining accords.
Recent talks with the government have been positive, Adkerson
said today.  Freeport has forecast copper sales of 3.8 billion pounds
and gold sales of 1.8 million ounces this year. It expects to
produce more than 4 billion pounds of copper annually for the
next several years, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 