-- Paris Tourists Stranded as Strikes Cut Access to Eiffel Tower, Notre-Dame
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-12T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/french-strikes-against-pension-reforms-close-eiffel-tower-arc-de-triomphe.html
French workers are demonstrating
today for the fourth time in five weeks in nationwide marches
after President  Nicolas Sarkozy  refused to bow to demands to
scrap a pension-system overhaul.  Labor unions threatened open-ended strikes as 500,000
people marched this morning in 244 demonstrations across the
country, more than the 380,000 protesters on the Oct. 2. The
strike disrupted trains, air travel and schools. Tourists
visiting Paris found the Eiffel Tower, the Musee d’Orsay and the
Arc de Triomphe closed. Paris metro workers said they will
continue the strike tomorrow.  “The protest is not weakening, but we can’t be sure it
will grow,” Labor Minister  Eric Woerth  told  France 3  television
today. “The government’s determination is total.”  The government says the changes are needed to help France
cope with an aging population and help balance the pension
system’s budget by 2018. The pensions’ system reform is part of
the broader government’s struggle to cut down the budget
deficit. This year the gap will stand at 7.7 percent and
Sarkozy’s minister plan to cut it down to 92 billion euros ($125
billion), or 6 percent of gross domestic product, next year.  Three rallies since Sept. 7 that brought hundreds of
thousands of protesters onto the streets have failed to derail
Sarkozy’s retirement proposals. Unions called for more
demonstrations on Oct. 16. Union representatives will vote by
tomorrow on renewing the protest for another 24 hours.  ‘Last Call’  “The government is forcing us to step up our actions
because it’s made no move after the other days of protest,”
 Francois Chereque , head of the CFDT union, said on France 2 TV.
“I’m sending the government a last call: listen to our demands.”  Railway  and Paris subway workers as well as teachers, air-
traffic controllers and port and refinery employees walked out
to protest plans to raise the retirement age to 62 from 60 and
lift the age for a full pension to  67 from 65 . Unions warned
they may renew the strike every 24 hours unless the government
backs down.  The bill on the changes to the retirement system was
approved by the  National Assembly  last month and is being
debated at the Senate. The upper chamber of Parliament has
already approved the two main points of the legislation, the
raise of the retirement age and of the full pension age.  The reform ”is the most sensible decision; even the
International Monetary Fund said it,” Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said today at the  National Assembly . “Nobody will
renegotiate the age increase,” he said.  Planes, Trains  A survey in yesterday’s  Le Parisien  newspaper showed 69
percent of the respondents support the protest and 61 percent
said they favor an open-ended strike. The Paris-based  pollster
CSA  called 1,011 adults on Oct. 6-7 and gave no margin of error.  France’s aviation authority  advised carriers to cut half
their flights to and from Paris Orly airport and a third to and
from Roissy Charles de Gaulle because of the air-traffic
controllers’ strike. The  Lyon airport  canceled 21 percent of its
flights it said on its web site.  Air France-KLM Group  said the protest won’t affect its
long-haul flights, while some European and domestic flights will
be canceled or delayed.  Ryanair Holdings Plc  said it’s canceling
250 French flights today.  Eurostar  trains to the U.K. are operating normally and
eight of 10 Thalys trains to Belgium, the Netherlands and
certain German cities are running, national railway operator
SNCF said in a  statement  on its website. Half of the Lyria
trains to Geneva and Zurich are running, while all high-speed
trains to Italy and Spain have been canceled.  Paris Metro  About 40 percent of SNCF workers are on strike, up from 37
percent on Sept. 23, the national railway operator said.  A third of the  high-speed trains  between Paris and the
south of France are running, as are half those between the
capital and the north.  Paris metro  lines operated more smoothly than predicted as
UNSA, one of its labor unions, opted not to strike. Half the
trains on line 3, 5, 8, 10 were running and the rest of the
metro system was only slightly disrupted, according to
information on the RATP operator’s website.  The RER B commuter train, which  connects  Orly and Charles
de Gaulle airports, faced the most disruption, with no trains
running inside Paris, forcing travellers to take other
transportation. RER A commuter trains are running, the RATP
operator said on its website.  Utilities Join  The Ministry of Education reported that 40.4 percent of the
teachers were on strike,  La Poste  mail service said 16.5 percent
of its staff was on strike. Telephone operator  France Telecom SA 
said 20.2 percent of its workers walked out.  Workers at refineries and gas and electricity plants joined
the strike. Employees at the oil terminal at the port of
Marseille, who have been on strike for the past 15 days because
of the government’s plan to revamp the ports system, joined in.  The walkout is affecting refineries owned by Total SA,
Ineos Group Holding Plc and LyondellBasell Industries NV,
according to the CGT union. Electricite de France SA’s nuclear
output dropped by 5,000 megawatts today, said  Marie-Claire Cailletaud , a CGT spokeswoman.  Total said between half and 80 percent of refinery shift
workers were on strike today. Electricite de France said 18
percent of French workers on strike.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  