-- French Refineries, Nuclear Reactors, Ports Disrupted by Nationwide Strike
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-12T17:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/french-refineries-reactors-ports-hit-by-strikes-update3-.html
A nationwide strike by French
refinery, power and gas workers lowered crude oil-processing
rates and cut electricity production and the possibility of fuel
shortages loomed as Marseille oil terminals remained blocked.  Workers at ten of the country’s 12 refineries voted to
strike today, CGT union representative Christian Votte said by
phone. Deliveries to and from plants were blocked and refining
rates reduced, he said. Some refinery workers may stay on strike
tomorrow, according to Votte.  Total SA began halting its Donges and Grandpuits
refineries, according to spokesman  Michael Crochet-Vourey .
Workers at Donges, which can process 230,000 barrels a day and
is the company’s second-biggest refinery in France, voted to
halt operations. Management decided to begin shutting down
Grandpuits, which has a capacity of 101,000 barrels a day.  The walkout affected refineries owned by  Total , Ineos Group
Holdings Plc, LyondellBasell Industries NV, Exxon Mobil Corp.
and Petroplus Holdings AG, according to the CGT union.
 Electricite de France SA ’s nuclear output dropped by 5,000
megawatts, CGT union spokeswoman  Marie-Claire Cailletaud  said.
The utility said 18 percent of workers in France joined the
strike.  Fuel Shortages  French workers demonstrated for the fourth time in five
weeks to oppose a plan to increase the retirement age to 62 from
60. A strike at Marseille’s oil terminals of Fos and Lavera
entered its 16th day as employees demanded changes to the way a
2008 ports reform law will be implemented.  Four of the six refineries dependent on crude supplies from
Marseille could start closing down at the end of this week, said
the Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres refiners’ group,
known as UFIP. Total started halting a unit at La Mede two days
ago.  Gasoline  prices in the benchmark Rotterdam-Amsterdam-
Antwerp barge market traded at $762 to $767 a metric ton today.
Total was the main buyer of premium gasoline, which traded from
$781 to $784 a ton, according to a survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts pricing window. That is up from $770 a ton
on Oct. 8.  Labor action affected all of Total’s crude-processing
plants except Feyzin as well as two petrochemical sites, Votte
said. Workers at Exxon’s Gravenchon refinery weren’t on strike
today while Fos-sur-Mer operated at minimum capacity with a
limited supply of crude oil and deliveries were halted,
spokeswoman Catherine Brun said.  ‘Reduced Rate’  Lyondell said its 105,000 barrel-a-day Berre refinery in
southern France operated at reduced rates and deliveries of
refined products were limited.  “Our employees are not on strike but other strikes in the
region are limiting our ability to operate the Berre complex,”
 David Harpole , a Houston-based company spokesman, said today.
“The local strikes are limiting our ability to deliver product
to our customers but we are able to deliver some product from
remote locations.”  Ineos “reduced throughput” at its Lavera complex because
of the Marseille port strike,  Richard Longden , a U.K.-based
company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Petroplus spokespeople at headquarters in Zug, Switzerland,
didn’t return telephone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  Fuel Shortages  Between half and 80 percent of shift workers at Total
refineries participated in the strike, a number that is
“comparable” to recent national strikes, Crochet-Vourey said.  Total began halting a crude-distillation unit at its La
Mede refinery two days ago because of a shortage of crude
supplies due to the port strike while  Feyzin  operated at a
“minimal rate,” the company said.  UFIP expects some fuel shortages to develop around
Marseille next week, Jean-Louis Schilanksy, who heads the group,
said in an interview on BFM radio station.  One way to resolve shortages of crude due to the strike at
Marseille’s oil terminals is for the French government to
authorize the use of strategic reserves, which can meet demand
for three months.  “This Plan B is not in our hands,” Schilanksy said. “The
government could authorize the use of the strategic reserves at
a given moment.”  Tomorrow  Total, Exxon, Ineos and Lyondell have plants in
southeastern France that together account for 31 percent of
French refining capacity. Workers at Exxon’s Fos-sur-Mer plant
as well as the others in the region are on strike today and may
continue tomorrow, the CGT union said.  Most of Total’s industrial sites in France voted for
rolling strikes, the CGT union said in an e-mailed statement. No
products left Total’s refineries, the union said, adding that it
expects fuel shortages in the near future.  Eighty-five ships remained stranded outside the port of
Marseille as dock workers and crane operators at all terminals
went on strike, said  Claire Battedou , a spokeswoman for the port
authority, in a statement. At the oil terminals of Fos and
Lavera, 56 fuel carriers were blocked including 22 crude tankers
and 15 vessels transporting refined products.  The Marseille docks have experienced stoppages in recent
years as unions have resisted efforts to transfer public-sector
jobs to private companies.  A 12-day strike at the oil hub in December 2008 cost
refineries 26 million euros ($36 million), including 15 million
euros related to vessel delays and 11 million euros in lost
revenue, UFIP estimated at the time. A strike at the oil
terminals in March 2007 lasted 17 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  