-- French Government Names Economist Philippe Chalmin to Study Food Prices
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-12T16:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/french-government-names-economist-philippe-chalmin-to-study-food-prices.html
Philippe Chalmin , an economics
professor at the University of Paris-Dauphine, was named as head
of a French government group that will study the relationship
between food prices at farm level and in supermarkets.  The so-called observatory on the formation of prices and
margins for food products will produce a first comprehensive
report in spring of next year, Agriculture Minister  Bruno Le Maire  said at a press conference in Paris today.  “There are strong tensions in the agri-food industry
between producers and processors,” Le Maire said. “From a
point of social cohesion, it’s important that we have the whole
truth on food prices.”  French farmers last year blocked dairy plants and
supermarkets to protest milk prices that they said were too low
to cover costs. France’s only  pig exchange  last month postponed
trading twice in two weeks after farmers and slaughterers failed
to agree on a price to cover surging feed expenses.  “Transparency, the whole truth, will allow for easing of
this tension,” Le Maire said. The aim is for the observatory to
provide monthly updates on food-price formation, he said.  Consumers fail to understand why milk prices remained
unchanged on store shelves when dairy farmers complained of
falling income, according to Le Maire. A priority will be a
report on price formation for livestock products, where farmers
are encountering the “biggest problems,” he said.  Burden-Sharing  “The cost of feed is exploding, notably because of the
increase in cereals,” Le Maire said. “The burden has to be
equally distributed,” and currently farmers “are bearing all
of it,” the minister said.  The observatory aims to create transparency on food-price
formation, Le Maire said. Food prices are among the hardest to
understand because raw materials are diverse and production is
complex, he said.  Pigs at the Marche du Porc Breton in Plerin, France, traded
yesterday at 1.121 euros ($1.55) a kilogram (2.2 pounds), up 8.9
percent from a year earlier, while the cost of corn has jumped
65 percent in that span. The  meat-price index  of the United
Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization was at 138.3 points
in September, up 17 percent from a year earlier.  “The market economy, the free economy, cannot function in
opacity,” Chalmin, a professor of economic history, said at the
press conference. “Collecting agricultural prices is not a
problem, collecting food prices is not a problem. Putting the
finger on what happens in the middle is the challenge.”  World food prices rose to a two-year high in September as
costs for grain and sugar surged, the FAO said this month. Its
overall index of food commodities climbed to 188.2 points, the
highest level since August 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 