-- French Unions Extend Strike as Sarkozy Digs in on Pensions
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-13T10:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/french-unions-extend-protests-for-2nd-day-as-sarkozy-digs-in-on-pensions.html
French strikers extended a protest
against President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s proposed overhaul of the
pension system as government ministers rebuffed calls to drop
the plan to raise the retirement age.  Long-distance trains were disrupted for a second day. Port
workers in Marseille also struck.  Service on the Paris Metro  was
close to normal and Air France said it expects to resume regular
service. Officials said they won’t retreat from the proposal to
increase the minimum retirement age to 62 from 60.  “It’s impossible for Sarkozy to back down, and the unions
have equally dug themselves in,”  Laurent Dubois , a professor at
Paris’s Institute of Political Studies, said in a telephone
interview. “The strikes will certainly last into next week, and
maybe beyond.”  Across France, 1.23 million people marched in protests
yesterday, police said, up from 997,000 during the previous
demonstrations on Oct. 2. The CFDT union said 3.5 million people
marched, up from 2.9 million. Yesterday’s protest was the fourth
against the proposed pension changes in five weeks. Unions plan
more demonstrations Oct. 16.  “It’s a robust reform so the protests are also forceful,”
Labor Minister  Eric Woerth  said today on RTL radio. “But
eventually you have to make a decision.”  The bill has been approved by the lower house of
parliament, the  National Assembly , while the Senate is debating
the measure and has approved some key planks, such as raising
the minimum age for a pension to 62 and the age for a full
pension to 67 from 65.  ‘Reasonable’  “However difficult it may be to implement this reform, the
government and parliament will press ahead with it in the
general interest calmly and determinedly,” Sarkozy told
ministers at the weekly cabinet meeting in Paris today.  The government says the changes are needed to help  France 
cope with an aging population and balance the pension system’s
budget by 2018. Narrowing the pension shortfall is part of the
government’s struggle to cut the budget deficit. This year, the
gap will stand at 7.7 percent of gross domestic product, and
Sarkozy’s ministers plan to reduce it to 92 billion euros ($127
billion), or 6 percent of GDP, next year.  The government has made some changes to the pension bill to
allow people in hardship jobs who started working as teenagers,
as well as women who had three children, to continue retiring
early. Unions have said the changes were insufficient.  Six of 14  Paris metro lines  were operating close to normal.
Another seven lines had at least two trains in three running,
while three lines were at half of their normal service.  Eurostar trains to London ran normally while rail operator
SNCF expects four of the day’s hourly trains to Brussels to be
canceled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  