-- G-7 Gives China Reminder ‘At This Point,’ Weber Says (Correct)
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-13T09:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/g-7-gives-china-currency-flexibility-reminder-at-this-point-weber-says.html
(Corrects attribution in sixth paragraph of article that
initially ran on Oct. 12.)  Group of Seven nations reminded
China and other emerging nations of their promise for more
currency flexibility, limiting themselves to a verbal notice
“at this point,” European Central Bank Governing Council
member Axel Weber said.  The G-7 nations met over the weekend in parallel to the
annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund, seeking more
currency flexibility to ease global tensions. China rebfuffed
the pressure, saying that its currency, the yuan, would be
allowed to rise gradually.  “All we did at this point is remind authorities in surplus
emerging market economies that they promised at the Toronto
meeting, in the G-20, to increase the degree of flexibility of
their exchange rate arrangements with respect to the major
industrialized countries,” Weber said today in New York. “At
this point the simple reminder that you need to embark on that
trajectory was the outcome of the G-7 meeting and is the main
message I’d like to repeat.”  Debate about competitive devaluations dominated meetings
of finance ministers and central bankers gathered for meetings
at the IMF. China faced demands from Western nations to let the
yuan rise more quickly at a time when the U.S. is trying to trim
its trade deficit and European nations are trying to stem an
outflow of manufacturing jobs.  Weber said the G-7 officials also reiterated their position
“that unilateral intervention in foreign exchange markets among
the G-7 are not parts of the rules of the game.” Japan last
month intervened to curb the rise of the yen.  China, Germany  Weber today rejected comparisons between China and his own
country Germany over their respective export strengths, saying
that Germany built up its position with quality and skill,
without any exchange rate protection from the ECB.  “We can strengthen domestic demand in Germany, and we
should, because our economy is not sufficiently balanced, and it
would be a policy objective in itself in particular to
strengthen the service sector in Germany,” Weber said. “But
don’t rest any hopes at the global level that even if we do that
-- and it’s in our self-interest -- it will have a major effect
on the global economy.”  Weber is also president of Germany’s central bank, the
Bundesbank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Washington at  jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Washington at  rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  