-- Gap Scraps New Logo After Backlash, Revives Blue Box
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-10-12T20:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/gap-scraps-new-logo-after-online-backlash-will-return-to-blue-box-design.html
Gap Inc.  abandoned a new logo after
consumer criticism and will revert to the blue-square emblem
that has been featured in its marketing for more than 20 years.  The clothing retailer released a  redesigned logo  on its
website Oct. 4 and had planned to roll it out in marketing
campaigns starting next month. More than a thousand people left
comments on Gap’s Facebook  page , a majority of them disparaging.  “We’ve learned a lot in this process,”  Marka Hansen , the
Gap brand president in North America, said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. “We are clear that we did not go about this
in the right way. We recognize that we missed the opportunity to
engage with the online community. This wasn’t the right project
at the right time for crowd sourcing.”  The new logo set the Gap name against a white backdrop,
with a blue square in the upper-right corner. Gap, which  owns 
Banana Republic, Old Navy, Piperlime and Athleta, has been
updating its clothing lines and stores to appeal to so-called
Millennials -- consumers in their 20s and early 30s. The logo
change was part of that evolution of the brand from “classic,
American design, to modern, sexy, cool”  Louise Callagy , a
spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Gap, said last week.  Two days after the logo release, Gap responded to the
outcry on its Facebook page, welcoming design suggestions and
calling it a crowd-sourcing project.  ‘Different Way’  “We’ve learned just how much energy there is around our
brand, and after much thought, we’ve decided to go back to our
iconic blue box logo,” Callagy said yesterday in an interview.
The change will take place starting today, she said.  Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy  has focused on the Gap
brand since he joined the company three years ago, part of a bid
to revive  growth . Sales at Gap stores in North America open at
least a year have declined six straight months, including a 1
percent drop in September, while Old Navy and Banana Republic
have made gains this year. The parent company hasn’t increased
 annual sales  since fiscal 2005.  “There may be a time to evolve our logo, but if and when
that time comes, we’ll handle it in a different way,” Hansen
said.  Gap rose 44 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $18.71 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have
dropped 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  