-- Gasoline Supply Drops to Lowest Level Since June in Survey: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-10-13T21:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/gasoline-supply-drops-to-lowest-level-since-june-in-survey-energy-markets.html
U.S.  gasoline supplies  probably
declined last week to the lowest level since June as refiners
performed seasonal maintenance and imports fell.  Stockpiles dropped 1.5 million barrels, or 0.7 percent, in
the week ended Oct. 8 from 219.9 million in the prior seven-day
period, based on the median of 19 analyst  estimates  before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. Oil inventories increased in
the survey and distillates slipped.  Gasoline futures touched the highest level in almost five
months on Oct. 7 after U.S. refiners cut plant-operating rates
and a French strike at the French port of Marseille extended
into a third week, threatening imports into New York Harbor.  “We’ve seen some pretty big declines in gasoline
production lately,” said  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron
Hanover Inc., a trading adviser in New Canaan, Connecticut.
“The refinery utilization number has dropped more consistently
and further late this summer and fall than it has in other
years.”  Refineries ran at 83.1 percent of capacity in the week
ended Oct. 1, the lowest level since 2002 for this time of year,
excluding shut-ins caused by hurricanes in 2005 and 2008,
according to Energy Department figures.  Gasoline for November delivery rose 4.22 cents, or 2
percent, to settle at $2.1661 a gallon on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the highest closing price since Aug. 4.
They touched $2.2011 a gallon last week, the highest price since
May 13 on an intraday basis.  API Inventories  Prices were little changed from the settlement after the
American Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S.
gasoline stockpiles tumbled 1.88 million barrels to 224.8
million, the lowest level since Aug. 6. November gasoline rose
3.86 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $2.1625 a barrel in electronic
trading at 4:34 p.m.  The Marseille action was followed by a nationwide strike
that has lowered France’s crude-oil processing rates. France may
face fuel shortages as early as next week, according to the
Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres, or UFIP, an industry
group.  Total SA , Europe’s biggest refiner, started to halt
operations at all its French plants.  Michael Crochet-Vourey , a
Total spokesman, said the industrial action is “incompatible
with the normal functioning of the refineries.”  Workers at 10 of France’s 12 refineries, including all of
Total’s six sites, were on strike today as part of a national
protest against President  Nicolas Sarkozy’s  pension overhaul,
according to the CGT union.  Gasoline Imports  “We expect gasoline imports to stay on the low side,”
said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman
Arnold Cos. in Texarkana, Texas. The price differential for
contracts closest to delivery in New York Harbor may widen, a
signal that supply will be tight on the East Coast, Knight said.  Gasoline imports  into the U.S. Northeast fell 24 percent in
the week ended Oct. 1 to 530,000 barrels a day, the lowest level
in three weeks, according to the Energy Department.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
11 a.m. tomorrow in Washington, a day later than usual because
of the Columbus Day federal holiday on Oct. 11.  Sixteen of the analysts surveyed forecast gasoline supplies
declined, and three said they rose. Inventories were 9.6 percent
above the five-year average in the week ended Oct. 1.  Total fuel  exports  averaged a record 2.16 million barrels a
day for a fourth straight week in the seven days ended Oct. 1,
according to the Energy Department.  Supply Forecast  U.S. oil  supplies  probably rose 1.45 million barrels, or
0.4 percent, last week from 360.9 million to the highest level
since the week ended June 25, the survey showed. Eighteen
analysts provided crude oil estimates. Fourteen forecast
inventories climbed, three said they fell and one estimated
supplies were unchanged from the week before.  Refiners typically idle units for maintenance in September
and October, a time when gasoline use falls and consumption of
heating oil has yet to increase before the peak-demand winter
months. The drop in output usually causes product inventories to
decline and oil supplies to rise.  Some analysts forecast that the closure of the Houston Ship
Channel last week will limit the oil-supply increase or cause
stockpiles to drop. Traffic on the waterway, which serves the
largest U.S. petroleum port, shut from Oct. 3 to Oct. 6 because
of a damaged electrical tower.  That likely curbed oil  imports ,  Jim Ritterbusch , president
of Ritterbusch & Associates, a Galena, Illinois-based consulting
company, said in a report.  Oil Imports  Oil imports tumbled 0.9 percent to 8.93 million barrels a
day in the week ended Oct. 1, the lowest level since the period
ended Sept. 3. Overall inventories were 13 percent above the
five-year average.  Crude for November delivery rose $1.34, or 1.6 percent, to
$83.01 a barrel on the Nymex, the highest level in a week.
Prices have closed above $80 a barrel for the past nine days.  Stockpiles  of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably dropped 1.15 million barrels,
or 0.7 percent, from 172.5 million. Sixteen of the respondents
in the survey forecast a decline, two estimated an increase and
one said supplies were unchanged from the week before.  Inventories  in the week ended Aug. 20 were at the highest
level since 1983. They were 22 percent above the five-year
average in the week ended Oct. 1. Supplies have fallen in five
of the past six weekly reports.  Refineries probably operated  at 83.5 percent of capacity,
in the week ended Oct. 8, up 0.4 percentage point from the
previous period, according to the Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  