-- GE Expands Solar Business as Immelt Seeks to Mirror Wind Growth
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2010-10-12T21:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/ge-expands-solar-business-as-immelt-seeks-to-mirror-wind-growth.html
General Electric Co ., which has
become the world’s second-biggest wind turbine maker in less
than a decade, is expanding production of two thin-film solar
products to increase its renewable-energy business.  GE will work with Japan’s Showa Shell Sekiyu KK’s  Solar
Frontier  unit to make thin-film panels coated with a copper-
indium-gallium-selenide compound, or CIGS, according to a
statement today. GE’s PrimeStar Solar plant will make cadmium
telluride-based thin film panels.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has spent more than
$1 billion on research and development of renewable power since
acquiring Enron Corp.’s wind division out of bankruptcy in 2002.
GE will offer total solar-system packages, panels, inverters and
service contracts.  “We expect to grow faster than the market and we’re going
to do it as a technology leader,”  Victor Abate , who oversees
GE’s renewable-energy businesses, said in an interview,
declining to give a revenue target. “This is a big-bet
commitment that GE’s making in renewable energy, and the next
big phase is solar.”  Global manufacturing capacity in solar panels is set to
soar to 30,000 megawatts by 2013 from 10,104 megawatts last
year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. GE announced
the move as the industry gathers at its biggest conference,
 Solar Power International , in Los Angeles.  Thin-Film Technology  Most solar panels convert sunlight into electricity using
silicon-based photovoltaic cells. Thin-film panels are made by
coating glass or other material with cadmium telluride or CIGS.
They account for about 15 percent of a $28 billion global solar-
panel market and have been gaining as prices rise for
crystalline silicon, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The market leader is  First Solar Inc.,  based in Tempe,
Arizona, with $2.1 billion in annual revenue and about a six-
year head start in commercializing cadmium-telluride thin film.
GE also faces start-up competitors such as Abound Solar Inc.  Japan’s Solar Frontier will have the capacity to
manufacture 900 megawatts a year, while Arvada, Colorado-based
PrimeStar will be able to produce 30 megawatts with plans for
expansion, Abate said.  GE waited to boost output until it was convinced it could
provide panels with the lowest cost for users, including
utilities, Abate said. Expansion probably will be fastest in the
U.S., where there’s a small base, and Europe, where solar is
heavily subsidized, he said. Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE has
lined up at least three customer contracts it plans to disclose
by the first quarter, Abate said without divulging names.  Share Price  The shares rose 23 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $17.19 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. That was the
highest closing price since May 19.  GE, whose power-generation equipment produces one-third of
the world’s electricity, bought Enron’s wind unit for less than
$300 million and turned it into a division that’s the biggest in
the U.S., with more than $6 billion in annual sales. Its wind
equipment, second only to Denmark’s Vestas Wind Systems A/S,
generates 21 gigawatts of energy, up from zero before the Enron
purchase, Abate said.  This month, GE bought the waste-heat power generation
business of closely held Calnetix Inc. to add to its Jenbacher
unit, which makes electricity from landfill and biogas sources
such as cow manure. Immelt acquired Jenbacher in 2003  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  