-- GE's LED Products to Get Most Lighting Sales in Chipmaker `War'
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-10-12T21:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/ge-s-led-products-to-win-most-lighting-sales-in-chipmaker-war-petras-says.html
General Electric Co.’s  lighting unit
may draw as much as 75 percent of sales from light-emitting
diode products within the next decade, compared with less than
10 percent now, the division’s chief said.  Consumer demand for LED bulbs will increase as prices
decline from as much as $75,  Michael Petras  said in an interview
today at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. Rising competition
among GE suppliers is helping cut the cost of the chips used in
the bulbs, he said.  “The war to sell us chips happens every day,” said
Petras, 43. “People are calling us up wanting to sell us more
chips at lower prices. We see a significant erosion in chip
prices year-over-year.”  U.S. legislation will bring an end to production of the
100-watt incandescent bulb in 2012, prompting consumers to
switch to other types including halogen and compact
fluorescents. Lower-wattage incandescent bulbs will be phased
out later.  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE’s co-founder,  Thomas Edison , invented a commercially practical incandescent bulb in
1879, and the company is the world’s oldest maker of the
products. The lighting unit, based in East Cleveland, Ohio,
employs about 17,000 workers worldwide with sales of almost $3
billion.  New energy laws are fueling more changes in the industry in
the next few years than it’s experienced in the past five
decades, Petras said. In the U.S., only 25 percent of the
population understands new regulations are coming, he said.  ‘Deal With Transformation’  “We are reshaping our lighting business to deal with the
transformation,” Petras said.  LEDs rely on semiconductors to create light, rather than
heating a filament. That makes the lamps cooler, more compact
and more energy-efficient than incandescent bulbs. The LED bulb,
usually encased in a ceramic or plastic housing, burns one
quarter of the electricity of a comparable incandescent and
lasts 25 times longer, GE said.  GE now makes LED spotlights and floodlights. The company
will introduce in November its first household LED bulb,
designed to replace a 40-watt incandescent bulb while consuming
only 9 watts of electricity.  The bulb has a life span of 22 years, meaning it could
power a lamp in a child’s bedroom from birth through college,
and will sell for about $50, GE said. In 10 years, a household
LED bulb will have a retail price of less than $10, Petras said.  “This is fun stuff,” Petras said. “Where do you have a
chance to sit in the front seat of an industry that’s
transforming?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  