-- GE, Siemens, Chiefs Urge U.K. to Retain Port Funding
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-10-12T16:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/ge-siemens-vestas-wind-systems-chiefs-urge-u-k-to-retain-port-funding.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and
 Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  urged the U.K. to keep 60 million pounds
($95 million) of funding for ports or risk remaining an importer
of  wind turbines  as it ramps up renewable power generation.  Executives at the three windmill makers were among 18
signatories of a letter sent to Treasury Chief Secretary  Danny Alexander , the industry group  RenewableUK  said today in an e-
mailed statement. GE and Siemens have already said they’re
considering building factories to make turbines in Britain.  The government is due to set spending cuts for each
ministry on Oct. 20, and Energy and Climate Change Secretary
 Chris Huhne  has said all spending is under review, including the
port funding announced in March by the previous government. At
stake are a possible 50,000 jobs that could be created in
Britain by the turbine industry, the RenewableUK letter said.  “Government funding and the development of a suitable port
infrastructure are critical if we are to locate our offshore
wind manufacturing operations in the U.K.,” said Mark Elborne,
chief executive officer of GE’s unit in the country.  The U.K. has more offshore wind generating capacity than
the rest of the world put together, and port facilities that are
able to handle large turbines are vital to attract manufacturers
to build domestic plants, RenewableUK Chief Executive Officer
Maria McCaffery said in a Sept. 23 interview.  “There is no doubt that offshore wind offers the potential
for significant employment and economic benefit for the U.K.,
with the opportunity to create a broad manufacturing base,”
Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  told lawmakers today, according
to his department. “I intend for it to be in the U.K.”  Other signatories of the letter include Andreas Goss, chief
executive officer of Siemens in the U.K., Anders Soe-Jensen,
president of Vestas Offshore, and  Tim Yeo , chairman of
Parliament’s Energy and Climate Change Committee.  The U.K. is betting on offshore winds as it chases a
European Union target of deriving 15 percent of its energy for
heat, electricity and transportation from renewable by 2020.
Britain’s capacity to generate electricity from the wind,
including onshore turbines, last month passed 5 gigawatts,
enough for 2.7 million homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 