-- Genzyme Sued By Investors Over Sanofi Buyout Bid
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-10-12T20:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/genzyme-sued-by-investors-over-rebuff-of-sanofi-aventis-takeover-attempt.html
Genzyme Corp., which spurned  Sanofi-
Aventis  SA’s $18.5 billion takeover bid, was sued by investors
who contend the biotechnology company is wrongfully depriving
shareholders of the chance to profit from the offer.  Two Genzyme shareholders sued the company’s board in
federal court in Boston seeking to have a judge order the
largest maker of medicines for rare genetic diseases to consider
Sanofi’s $69-a-share bid. Genzyme officials have repeatedly
rejected Sanofi’s overtures and urged shareholders to reject the
French drugmaker’s tender offer.  By failing to pursue the offers,  Genzyme  directors are
denying investors the right “to receive maximum value for their
shares,” lawyers for Genzyme shareholder Bernard Malina said in
a lawsuit filed last month.  Officials of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme contend
executives of Paris-based Sanofi have indicated they would pay
as much as $80 a share for the biotech company, according to a
U.S. regulatory filing yesterday.  Jean-Marc Podvin , a Sanofi
spokesman, disputed that assertion, saying the drugmaker hadn’t
offered a price range for its bid.  Genzyme spokesman  Bo Piela  declined to comment on the suits
in a telephone interview today. Company officials have urged
investors not to act on Sanofi’s offer until after it reviews
the proposal with financial and legal advisers. Genzyme said in
an Oct. 4 statement it would make its recommendation within 10
business days in a regulatory filing.  State Court Suits  Besides the two suits filed in federal court in Boston, at
least three other Genzyme shareholders have filed suit in state
courts in Massachusetts over the handling of Sanofi’s offer,
according to court filings.  In his Sept. 8 federal court suit, Malina noted Sanofi’s
bid provides a 38 percent premium to what Genzyme’s shares were
trading when the drugmaker first made the offer in late July.  Genzyme should be forced to appoint a special committee to
evaluate Sanofi’s offer or shop around for other bids, William
Field, a company shareholder, said in his Sept. 18 suit in
federal court.  The board’s handling of the offer has denied Genzyme
shareholders “a fair and adequate process for evaluating,
negotiating and obtaining the highest value reasonably
available” for their shares, Field said in the suit. Both
Field’s and Malina’s suits are seeking class-action status.  Genzyme fell 19 cents to $72.72 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading today. The shares have risen 28 percent so far this
year. Sanofi fell 57 cents, or more than 1 percent, to 48.86
euros in Paris trading.  The cases are Field v. Termeer, 10-CV-11565, U.S. District
Court for the District of Massachusetts (Boston); Malina v.
Genzyme Corp., et. al., 10-CV-11532, U.S. District Court for the
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 