-- Germany Will Back Romania for Schengen If Country Meets Tests, Merkel Says
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2010-10-12T10:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/germany-will-back-romania-for-schengen-if-country-meets-tests-merkel-says.html
Romania must advance efforts to meet
standards for the European Union’s passport-free travel zone,
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said.  Germany supports the Balkan nation’s bid to join the
Schengen Area, the agreement that allows free movement between
member states, if it meets the European Commission’s rules,
Merkel said today. EU leaders will meet in November to discuss
Romania’s and Bulgaria’s application for no-passport travel.  “We support Romania’s bid to join the Schengen Area,”
Merkel said today through an interpreter in a speech in
Bucharest at the government’s headquarters after a meeting with
Prime Minister  Emil Boc . “The decision will be taken fairly and
we will make our assessment based on the European Commission’s
criteria.” Merkel noted that Romania has already “bravely”
sought to overhaul its judiciary and limit corruption.  Romania and Bulgaria joined the bloc in 2007 and are set to
receive 45 billion euros ($62 billion) of EU aid to raise living
standards and bring infrastructure toward EU levels. They are
seeking to join eight other former communist countries that
became Schengen members on Dec. 18, 2007, as the 27-nation EU
expands its influence to the east and gives its newest members
increased rights within the EU.  Countries in the Schengen system, named for the Luxembourg
village where the border-free plans were crafted in 1985, must
meet standards for border security. They also have to show they
are fighting organized crime, clamp down on document forgery and
issue biometric passports. Countries hoping to join need the
unanimous endorsement of those already in the area, based on the
commission’s assessment.  Expulsions of Roma from France to Romania and Bulgaria,
which sparked a disagreement with other EU states in August,
should not affect the decision whether to allow the two
countries to join the Schengen entry, Merkel said. The law and
the technical conditions must work to secure the borders, she
said.  “We came to the conclusion that the process of joining the
Schengen area must not be blocked on political criteria if the
technical ones are met,” Boc said during the same conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  