-- German Inflation Accelerated in September on Heating Oil Prices
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-10-12T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/german-inflation-accelerated-in-september-led-by-heating-oil-food-prices.html
Inflation  in Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, accelerated in September, led by increasing
prices for heating oil and food.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, rose 1.3 percent from a year ago after increasing
1 percent in August, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said today. That’s in line with an initial estimate published on
Sept. 28. In the month,  consumer prices  fell 0.2 percent.  German companies may struggle to pass on higher costs as
governments across the euro region cut spending to plug their
deficits just as the global recovery weakens. The euro’s 6.4
percent gain against the dollar last month helped offset some
price pressures by making imports such as crude oil cheaper.  “Inflation will remain very moderate over the coming
quarters,” said  Stephan Rieke , an economist at BHF-Bank AG in
Frankfurt. “The European Central Bank doesn’t have any need to
act on interest rates.”  The ECB, which aims to keep  inflation  in the 16-nation euro
region just below 2 percent, on Oct. 7 left its  key interest
rate  at a record low of 1 percent. The central bank last month
forecast euro-region inflation to average about 1.6 percent this
year and around 1.7 percent in 2011.  Consumer prices excluding energy costs increased 0.9
percent from a year earlier and fell 0.2 percent compared with
the previous month, the statistics office said.  Wholesale-price inflation  accelerated to 7.6 percent in
September from 6.4 percent in August, the office said in a
separate release. Wholesale prices rose 1 percent in the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  