-- Giants Beat Braves 3-2 to Win Series, Advance to NLCS Against Phillies
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-10-12T04:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/giants-beat-braves-to-win-series-advance-to-face-phillies-for-nl-pennant.html
The San Francisco Giants came
from behind for the second straight game to beat the
Atlanta Braves 3-2 and advance to the National League
Championship Series for the first time since 2002.  San Francisco scored two runs in the seventh inning to
erase a 2-1 deficit after Braves starting pitcher  Derek Lowe  was replaced with the bases loaded and one out.  Cody Ross  singled in the go-ahead run, one inning after hitting
a solo home run for the Giants’ first hit against Lowe.  The Giants’ win at Turner Field in Atlanta came one
day after they scored twice in the ninth inning to beat the
Braves by the same 3-2 score in Game 3. All four games in
the series were decided by one run.  “These games could have gone either way,” Giants
manager  Bruce Bochy  said during a news conference. “We
were fortunate to come out on top. We know it. It was just
a great series.”  The loss marked the final game for Braves manager
 Bobby Cox , who has said he’ll retire after 26 years with
the team. Cox, 69, will remain with the Braves in an
advisory role through the 2015 season. Atlanta won 14
division titles and one World Series during Cox’s tenure.  San Francisco won the best-of-five division series 3-1
and will face Philadelphia in the NL Championship Series
starting Oct. 16. The Phillies completed a sweep of the
Cincinnati Reds in the league’s other first-round series
two days ago.  Three of Major League Baseball’s four championship
series spots have been filled. The last will be decided
tonight when the Tampa Bay Rays host the Texas Rangers in
Game 5 of their American League division series. The winner
advances to play the New York Yankees in the AL
Championship Series.  Price vs. Lee  The Rays will turn to starting pitcher  David Price ,
while the Rangers counter with Game 1 winner  Cliff Lee .  The Rays are seeking to become the second team to win
a best-of-five playoff series after losing the first two
games at home, joining the 2001 Yankees. The Rangers are
the only current major league team that hasn’t won a
postseason series.  “We won here; they won at our place,” Rangers
manager  Ron Washington  said yesterday. “We’ve got two of
the best pitchers going and when it’s all over, the team
that scores the most runs will get it. And I hope it’s
us.”  In Atlanta, Lowe allowed only Ross’s homer until the
seventh inning, when he was lifted after surrendering two
walks and an infield single. The Giants scored the tying
run on a grounder, and Ross delivered a two-out single off
Braves reliever  Jonny Venters .  Bumgarner’s Playoff Debut  Giants pitcher  Madison Bumgarner , making his first
playoff start, allowed two runs on six hits in six innings.
The 21-year-old lefthander was the youngest Giants pitcher
to start in the postseason since Jerome Williams in 2003.  “The way he carried himself is beyond his years,”
Bochy said. “He’s 21 years old, but you wouldn’t know
it.”  Lowe allowed three runs -- two earned -- on two hits
over 6 1/3 innings for Atlanta. His eight strikeouts marked
a career postseason high.  After the game ended, Cox emerged from the Atlanta
dugout, tipping his cap as the crowd gave him a standing
ovation. Giants players and coaches, including Bochy,
interrupted their on-field celebration to applaud Cox.  “I revere this man so much,” Bochy said. “It’s
going to be strange coming in here and not seeing Bobby on
the other side. I’m going to miss him.”  Cox’s Teary Farewell  Cox said while he’s disappointed in the result, he’s
happy for Bochy, whom he called “one of the best guys in
baseball.” Cox then gathered himself before answering a
question about what he said to his players in the locker
room after the game.  “I told them I was proud of them,” he said as tears
filled his eyes. “A grown man shouldn’t do this. It
doesn’t feel like this is the last time I’m putting (a
uniform) on, but it certainly is. I won’t put it on
again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  at Turner Field in Atlanta at 
1320 or  mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  