-- Goldman Takes Lead in Asia Ex-Japan Stock Sales With ICBC Deal
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-10-12T16:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/goldman-tops-morgan-stanley-in-asia-ex-japan-stock-sales-after-icbc-offer.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  vaulted
past Morgan Stanley to become the top arranger of stock sales in
Asia outside Japan for the first time since 2005 after divesting
a $2.25 billion stake in  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd.  two days before the end of the third quarter.  The ICBC sale was one of four deals Goldman Sachs completed
in the last two days of September to overtake  Morgan Stanley 
with 14.9 percent of the market, its biggest share since 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs  pushed into the top slot as equity offerings
in the region surged to $81 billion, marking the best first nine
months since 2007, Bloomberg data show. Helping drive the climb
from third a year earlier were stake sales in ICBC and  China
Mobile Ltd. , the phone carrier Goldman Sachs took public in 1997
that’s now the world’s sixth-largest company by market value.  “Asia ex-Japan has been a hot spot for equity capital
markets and it can easily bear more deals given the recent
stock-market rally there,” said  Christopher Palmer , who
oversees about $6 billion as the London-based head of global
emerging markets at Gartmore Investment Management Ltd.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Ex-Japan Index rallied 12 percent in
September, its best  monthly performance  since July 2009.  The four offerings Goldman Sachs completed on Sept. 29 and
Sept. 30 raised a combined $3.15 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Morgan Stanley finished three deals from Sept.
28 to Sept. 30 worth a total of $925 million, taking its nine-
month market share to 12 percent. Before Sept. 28, the two firms
were almost in a tie for the No. 1 spot, the data show. Both
banks are based in New York.  ‘Right Investments’  Goldman Sachs expanded its investment-banking  workforce  in
China by 40 percent this year as part of a push to help more
local companies sell shares,  Thomas Deng , the firm’s head of
China equity capital markets, said last month.  Deng, formerly Goldman Sachs’s chief China strategist in
Hong Kong, was appointed to his current role in March. The same
month, the bank said it hired  William Smiley  from HSBC Holdings
Plc as equity syndicate co-head in Hong Kong.  Steven Barg , the
former UBS AG capital-markets chief for Asia, joined two months
later as regional co-head of equity capital markets.  “We’ve made the right investments in people and clients
ahead of what’s become an extraordinary level of market
activity,”  Dan Dees , head of Goldman Sachs’s Asia financing
group, said in an interview.  Nineteen of the 33 stock offers Goldman Sachs arranged in
the nine-month period were by Chinese companies, according to
Bloomberg data. Those deals raised a combined $25.4 billion.  Future Business  Morgan Stanley was first in stock underwriting in Asia
outside Japan in the year-earlier period, Bloomberg data show.
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley have been among the five top-
ranked equity sale arrangers in the region since 2006. Morgan
Stanley worked on 43 deals in this year’s first nine months, 10
more than Goldman Sachs.  In initial public offerings, Goldman Sachs ranked third in
the nine-month period behind  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Deutsche
Bank AG, according to Bloomberg data. That was still its best
showing since 2007. Morgan Stanley was fourth in IPOs in the
region through Sept. 30.  “Being one of the top players consistently can certainly
help capture future business, especially for IPOs,” said  Kester Ng , co-head of equity capital and derivatives markets for Asia-
Pacific at JPMorgan. “Clients seeking initial public offerings
will look for banks with credibility and track record.”  China, India  Asia has led a recovery in global share sales this year,
powered by China and India. Chinese companies raised $37.5
billion from overseas stock sales through Sept. 30, a 29 percent
jump from a year earlier, Bloomberg data show. China’s domestic
equity underwriting market is only open to overseas investment
banks that have ventures with local partners.  India’s government aims to raise 400 billion rupees ($8.9
billion) in the year through March 2011 selling shares in  state
companies . Those deals typically generate near-zero fees.  “We expect significant new issue volume for the remainder
of the year, with a healthy balance of large and mid-size IPOs,
follow-ons and convertible bonds,”  Gokul Laroia , Morgan
Stanley’s co-head of Asia investment banking, said in an email.  Goldman Sachs’s relationship with ICBC stretches back to
2006, when the firm and affiliated funds paid $2.59 billion for
a 4.9 percent stake in the Chinese lender, now the world’s
largest bank by market value. The value of Goldman Sachs’s
holding has swelled to $7.7 billion, even after it raised $4.25
billion in two sales of ICBC stock over the past 16 months.  China Mobile IPO  Vodafone Group Plc  turned to Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley
and UBS AG last month to help the U.K. carrier sell a stake in
China Mobile for $6.5 billion. Vodafone bought its holding in
the Beijing-based company in two transactions between 2000 and
2002.  Goldman Sachs helped arrange the IPO of China Mobile, then
called China Telecom (H.K.) Ltd., in October 1997 in what was at
the time the biggest-ever stock sale in Asia outside Japan.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs also worked on this year’s
IPOs of Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and AIA Group Ltd. At
$22.1 billion, Agricultural Bank’s offering was the world’s
largest-ever first-time sale. American International Group Inc.
is raising as much as $14.9 billion by taking its AIA unit
public in what would be Asia’s third-biggest IPO.  “Banks all want to achieve that number one status in the
league table as it generally shows the companies that they have
a good track record, a global reach, distribution and research
capabilities and most importantly, a competitive fee,” said
Palmer of Gartmore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ; 