-- Google, Marubeni to Lay Cables for U.S. Wind Farm Plan
-- B y   Y o u n g - S a m   C h o   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 2010-10-12T18:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/google-marubeni-to-lay-power-cables-off-eastern-coast-of-u-s-.html
Google Inc.  said it will invest in a
$5 billion underwater transmission network that can harvest
electricity from wind farms off the Mid-Atlantic coast and power
1.9 million homes across Virginia, New York and New Jersey.  Google will buy a 37.5 percent stake in the development
stage of the Atlantic Wind Connection project,  said   Rick Needham , director of green business operations at the Mountain
View, California-based Internet company. The new transmission
line would form the “backbone” of a Mid-Atlantic offshore wind
industry that could add 6,000 megawatts of capacity to the grid,
Needham said.  The large-scale development of wind farms off the U.S. East
Coast may create as many as 212,000 jobs, the project’s
developers, including Google,  Trans-Elect Development Co. ,  Good
Energies Inc.  and Tokyo-based  Marubeni Corp. , said in a
statement.  The project, called the “Atlantic Wind Connection,” is
needed to lower the cost of sending electricity from offshore
wind turbines to the power grid, Bob Mitchell, chief executive
officer of Trans-Elect, told reporters.  “There will be no offshore wind industry in this country
if we as a team are not successful,” Mitchell said of the
project.  The transmission line is to extend from New Jersey to
Virginia, Mitchell said in a telephone interview.  More Financing  The first phase of the project, which the developers aim to
complete by early 2016, would run about 150 miles and cost
between $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion, he said. The second phase
to complete the 350-mile line could be finished by 2020,
Mitchell said.  Google and Good Energies will each have a 37.5 percent
equity stake, he said. Japan’s Marubeni Corp. will have a 15
percent stake. Atlantic Grid Development LLC, a company formed
to develop the project whose shareholders include Trans-Elect,
will have 10 percent.  Google is “only committing to provide equity for the
critical early development stage of the project” in “the tens
of millions” of dollars, with the larger project costs being
shouldered through a separate financing which is expected to
take place in 2013, Jamie Yood, a spokesman for Google, said in
an e-mail.  The project will help spur the wind-energy industry in the
U.S., which has lagged China in installing turbines, said
 Charlie Hodges , a wind industry analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in London. Wind-power investment may reach $202 billion
within two decades, according to estimates at industry group
 Global Wind Energy Council .  Equity Stake  “The North American wind industry hasn’t had any players
involved with the motivation and financial heft to really move
this market forward,” Hodges said. “Google could play that
role.”  The U.S. Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy
Laboratory estimated last week in a  report  that the U.S.’s
offshore wind resources total more than 4,000 gigawatts, or
roughly four times the country’s  existing electric generation
capacity .  China will on average install turbines each year from 2009
through 2013 with the capacity to generate 18.7 gigawatts of
power from the wind, New Energy Finance estimates. That’s more
than double the 8.5 gigawatts annual average in the U.S.  “Each megawatt hour of offshore power carried down that
interconnector has more chance of finding buyers, probably
improving economics of offshore wind projects connected to it,”
Hodges said. “This cable opens up markets and improves the
chances of finding a buyer of offshore wind electricity.”  Globally, wind power is expected to account for 22 percent
of the world’s electricity generation within two decades, the
Global Wind Energy Council said today.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, rose $5.02 to
$543.86 at 1:21 p.m. New York Time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Before today, the  shares  had dropped 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Young-Sam Cho  in Tokyo at   ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 