-- Google Executive Marissa Mayer Takes New Role in Location, Local Services
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-12T20:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/google-s-marissa-mayer-takes-new-role-overseeing-location-local-services.html
Marissa Mayer , Google Inc.’s vice
president of search products, is taking a new role overseeing
location and local services -- markets the company is counting
on to boost sales.  Mayer, who joined in 1999 as the company’s first female
engineer, will run an area that’s crucial to users and  Google 
itself, the Mountain View, California-based company said today
in an e-mail. Mayer also is joining Google’s operating
committee, the company’s senior most management group, according
to a person familiar with the matter, who declined to be
identified because the move hasn’t been made public.  “Marissa has made an amazing contribution on search over
the last decade, and we’re excited about her input in this new
area in the decade ahead,” the company said.  Google, owner of the world’s  most popular  search engine, is
putting more focus on local businesses and location services as
it looks for areas of growth outside traditional Internet
searches. The effort may help the company get more advertising
from neighborhood stores and restaurants. More than 90 percent
of the company’s  revenue  comes from online ads.  Mayer designed and developed the company’s search interface
and expanded the site to more than 100 languages, according to
Google. She has helped introduce more than 100 features and
products on the site, including a faster Web search last month
called Instant that gives users results as they type in queries.  Mayer’s search duties will be taken on by  Udi Manber , vice
president of engineering for Web search, according to the person
familiar with the change. Manber, a veteran of  Yahoo! Inc.  and
Amazon.com Inc., joined Google in 2006.  Google rose $2.55 to $541.39 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have dropped 13 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  