-- Icahn Announces Support for Lions Gate Combination With MGM
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-10-12T21:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/icahn-announces-support-for-lions-gate-combination-with-mgm.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp . is
renewing its effort to merge with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. in a
offer that has the backing of billionaire  Carl Icahn , who holds
stakes in both companies.  A proposal was sent to Los Angeles-based  MGM  yesterday,
Lions Gate said in a regulatory  filing . A merger “would enhance
value for all constituencies,” Icahn said today in a separate
statement.  Lions Gate is offering as much as $1.8 billion in stock and
debt under a plan that would give MGM creditors a 55 percent
stake in the combined studio, according to a person with
knowledge of the situation. Some MGM creditors, barred by
covenants from converting to equity, would get as much as $400
million in new debt, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the terms aren’t public.  The offer is superior to a rival plan for MGM to be led by
the founders of Spyglass Entertainment after a streamlined
bankruptcy, said Icahn, 74.  Icahn has been trying to take control of Santa Monica,
California-based Lions Gate with hostile bids since March. His
current bid of $7.50 a share expires Oct. 22.  Lions Gate, which produces the “Mad Men” series on the
AMC cable-TV network,  fell  14 cents to $7.34 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed
26 percent this year.  Soliciting Votes  Last week, MGM began soliciting votes from lenders for a
streamlined bankruptcy that would turn over management of the
film studio to Spyglass, an independent film producer.  In the plan, creditors would exchange more than $4 billion
in debt for about 95 percent of equity when MGM emerges from
bankruptcy. Spyglass, based in Burbank, California, would get
about 5 percent of equity.  MGM’s term loan was quoted at about 45 cents on the dollar
today, according to people familiar with the loan, who declined
to be identified because trades are private.  Susie Arons , an outside spokeswoman for MGM, was traveling
and couldn’t immediately be reached for comment. Icahn didn’t
return a call to his New York office.  Peter Wilkes , a spokesman
for Lions Gate, declined to comment.  Lions Gate and Icahn are separately facing off in a British
Columbia court this week. Icahn is challenging a July stock-for-
debt swap that diluted his stake in the company while increasing
the holding of Lions Gate board member  Mark Rachesky .  Rachesky, with 28.9 percent, is Lions Gate’s second largest
shareholder after Icahn, who holds 33 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  