-- ICAP, JPMorgan, WestLB, Lehman, SKS in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-12T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/icap-jpmorgan-westlb-nomura-socgen-airgas-lehman-sks-in-court-news.html
ICAP Plc ’s former Asia head Kim
Rosenkilde and his deputy Don McClumpha created an
“unbearable” work culture, brokers who were sued by the
company to stop them from quitting said in court papers.  The two executives favored Caucasians over Asians, the 10
brokers said in Oct. 8 filings to the Singapore High Court. The
court last month ordered Lausanne, Switzerland-based  Compagnie
Financiere Tradition SA  to stop recruiting ICAP brokers until
the dispute is resolved.  While local brokers took a voluntary pay cut of as much as
20 percent in late 2008 on the basis there would be no firings,
the senior ranks were being staffed with “high-cost friends and
previous colleagues from overseas,” said Steven Ng, a deputy
manager, and Gary Sim, a vice president.  London-based ICAP, the world’s largest broker of trades
between banks, has almost 5,000 employees in 32 countries and
values and respects “everyone who contributes to our
business,” Mike Sheard, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Rosenkilde is needed in a  new role  reporting to Chief
Executive Officer Michael Spencer and was succeeded by Sydney-
based Hugh Gallagher as head of ICAP’s Asia operations at the
end of September, Sheard said.  McClumpha will return to London in a few months to work on
ICAP’s e-swaps platform, Sheard said, adding that the changes
aren’t related to the lawsuit.  Christopher Daniel from Advocatus Law LLP and Suresh Nair
from Straits Law Practice LLC are representing the brokers. Andy
Leck from Baker & McKenzie.Wong & Leow is acting for ICAP.  The case is ICAP AP (Singapore) Pte. v. M. Divakaran & Ors
S703/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  Petters Trustee Sues JPMorgan Chase, Ritchie Capital  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Ritchie Capital Management LLC
were sued by the U.S. bankruptcy trustee for companies run by
convicted Ponzi schemer Thomas Petters in an effort to recover
more than $261 million.  The trustee, Douglas Kelley, filed the complaints Oct. 10
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Minneapolis, where he has brought
more than 200 lawsuits seeking to recover billions of dollars
for creditors.  Petters last year was sentenced to 50 years in prison after
being found guilty of running a $3.5 billion fraud. Petters
conned investors into giving him money to finance phony
consumer-goods purchase contracts. His Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based businesses also owned Sun Country Airlines Inc. and
Polaroid Corp.  Kelley alleged that New York-based JPMorgan, a shareholder
in Polaroid before Petters acquired it, received more than $241
million of Petters’s ill-gotten gains. Kelley also seeks to
recover more than $12 million from former Polaroid Holding Co.
Chairman Jacques Nasser.  Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for JPMorgan, said the bank was
unaware of the case and he couldn’t comment on it. A spokesman
for Nasser, the chairman of mining company BHP Billiton Ltd.,
couldn’t be reached for comment.  Justin Meise, a spokesman for Ritchie Capital, said he
couldn’t immediately comment on the complaint.  The cases are In re Petters Co., 08-45257; Kelley v.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., 10-04443; and Kelley v. Ritchie Capital
Management LLC, 10-04440, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  WestLB Seeks $22.3 Million From Nomura in Trial Over Notes  WestLB AG , the German lender bailed out during the
financial crisis, told a London court yesterday that a  Nomura
Holdings Inc.  unit should pay $22.3 million for securities it
wrongly said were worthless.  The Nomura unit last year used an inappropriate bidding
procedure to determine the price of 195,000 shares in an
investment fund after missing a deadline to physically deliver
the notes instead of paying their cash value, WestLB argued on
the first day of a trial at the High Court in London.  Nomura had a right to choose the valuation method and the
notes were worthless because several banks expressed no interest
in them, said Nomura’s lawyer, Richard Handyside. “The
valuation should be held to be final and binding,” he said in
an Oct. 7 court filing.  WestLB claims Nomura should have used the $22.3 million
cash value of the notes established by the fund’s manager,
Mauritian International Trust Co., or Mitco. Tokyo-based Nomura
claims Mitco didn’t provide enough information about the fund’s
underlying assets, or its methodology for determining the value.  The trial comes as state-owned WestLB is shedding risky
businesses and preparing to sell itself by the end of 2011 under
conditions imposed by the European Commission after the bank was
bailed out. Germany’s Soffin bank-rescue fund agreed last year
to provide WestLB, based in Dusseldorf, with 3 billion euros
($4.2 billion) to help with moving its bad assets.  For more, click here.  Societe Generale Calls Claim Bank Lied to Court ‘Defamatory’  Societe Generale SA  provided “full transparency” about a
1.7 billion-euro deferred tax credit it received because of the
4.9 billion-euro 2008 trading loss from Jerome Kerviel, the
bank’s lawyer said.  “It is defamatory to claim that Societe Generale had lied
to the court about its loss,” Jean Veil, a lawyer for the bank,
told Europe1 radio yesterday.  Societe Generale confirmed his statement and released
details on the tax credit, reported as early as August 2008, to
refute comments by Kerviel’s lawyer Olivier Metzner to  France
Info  radio on Oct. 9. Metzner said the bank “voluntarily,
fraudulently tricked the court” by not figuring the credit into
its calculation of the loss.  The dispute over the size of Societe Generale’s loss comes
less than a week after a Paris criminal court ordered Kerviel,
33, to repay the full 4.9 billion euros. A Societe Generale
spokeswoman said the next day the bank was willing to negotiate
a reduction in the award, which is being appealed together with
Kerviel’s three-year jail sentence.  “They should have asked for an amount that took into
account” the tax credit, Metzner said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Therefore they misled the court.”  Any revision to the damages award will be up to the appeal
court, Metzner said. He hasn’t been contacted by the bank or its
lawyers about the proposed negotiation, he said.  Kerviel amassed 50 billion euros in unauthorized positions,
concealed with faked hedges. The Paris-based bank discovered the
trades in January 2008 and decided to unwind the bets over three
days, resulting in the loss. The court rejected his defense that
the bank knew about and encouraged what he was doing, holding
Kerviel solely responsible. He was convicted of breach of trust,
forgery and computer hacking.  Airgas to Appeal Court Ruling on Meeting Date in Takeover Case  Airgas Inc. , fighting a $5.5 billion takeover bid by  Air
Products & Chemicals Inc ., plans to appeal a court ruling that
would allow the industrial-gas supplier’s next annual meeting to
be held in January.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge William B. Chandler III ruled
Oct. 8 that a bylaw approved by Airgas shareholders last month
doesn’t improperly shorten the terms of directors on the
company’s staggered board. Air Products may use the ruling to
take control of Airgas at the January meeting. Airgas  rose  3.2
percent in New York trading.  “Airgas continues to believe that the proposed amendment
to its bylaws,” which moves up the meeting date from as early
as April, “is invalid under both Delaware law and Airgas’s
Certificate of Incorporation,” the Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
company said yesterday in a statement.  The cases are Air Products & Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington); and Airgas Inc. v.
Air Products & Chemicals Inc., 5817, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Lehman U.K. Unit Seeks Ruling on $1 Billion in Securities  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s U.K. unit asked a London
judge to determine the ownership of more than $1 billion worth
of securities left in the bank’s accounts when it collapsed two
years ago.  Lehman Brothers International Europe lawyer Iain Milligan
told Justice Michael Briggs that former Lehman units are
contesting the ownership of the securities that they had bought
and sold to each other in a series of internal transactions.  Lehman filed for the U.S.’s biggest bankruptcy in September
2008, disrupting financial markets and contributing to the worst
economic crisis since the Great Depression. The U.K. unit has
been involved in suits with the parent company in the U.S. and
affiliates throughout Europe over billions in accounts frozen
when the bank collapsed. Last week, it lost a German ruling over
$1.1 billion held by Lehman Brothers Bankhaus AG.  “Ultimately you are being asked to make sense of what is
in some regards, a mess,” Milligan told the judge.  Milligan said that the case is complicated because the
bank’s internal transactions hadn’t been as well documented as
transactions with “the outside world.”  Lehman Brothers International Europe was buying and selling
securities both on its own and on behalf of other affiliates,
Milligan said, leaving a constantly changing balance in its
accounts.  AIG in Talks to Settle Duke Stripper-Lacrosse Lawsuit  American International Group Inc.  is in talks with  Duke
University  to settle a lawsuit over expenses tied to the
school’s court dispute with lacrosse team members falsely
accused of sexually assaulting a stripper.  Duke and a unit of New York-based AIG set a mediation date
in the almost 2-year-old case, according to a motion filed last
week. The school was seeking reimbursement of costs from
confidential settlements with three members of the team who were
exonerated after they were accused of rape by a stripper invited
to a 2006 party.  “The parties are hopeful that they will be able to resolve
this dispute at the November 4 mediation and have agreed that it
is preferable to avoid incurring significant expenses,”
according to the motion from AIG and Duke in federal court in
Durham, North Carolina.  A settlement may reduce distractions as AIG seeks to repay
taxpayer loans within its $182.3 billion government bailout.
Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche has settled disputes
with investors and former CEO Maurice “Hank” Greenberg.  Duke and AIG have held settlement talks and agreed to
reconvene, according to the Oct. 8 filing. Mark Herr, a
spokesman for AIG, and Michael Schoenfeld of Durham-based Duke
declined to comment.  Duke had demanded reimbursement for costs tied to lawsuits
by players and another by the team’s former coach over the
school’s role in investigating the accusation, according to the
November 2008  complaint . The athletes said Duke remained silent
during the probe even though the university had evidence they
were innocent.  The case is Duke University and Duke University Health
System Inc. v. National Union Fire Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh
Pa., 08-cv-0854, U.S. District Court, Middle District of North
Carolina (Durham).  SKS Microfinance CEO Needs Board Approval for Major Decisions  SKS Microfinance Ltd. , the Indian lender backed by George
Soros, said a court ruled that newly appointed Chief Executive
Officer M.R. Rao can’t make major decisions without the approval
of the board.  SKS Microfinance  shares have declined 3.6 percent since
Oct. 4, when the lender replaced Suresh Gurumani with Rao, four
years before the end of Gurumani’s term. The stock rose 0.4
percent at the 3:30 p.m. close on the  Bombay Stock Exchange 
yesterday, bringing gains since its Aug. 10 initial public
offering to 25 percent.  The Andhra Pradesh High Court’s ruling, which came in
response to an application from S. Lekha to stop SKS’s board
from terminating Gurumani’s term as CEO, will be effective
pending further orders, the company said in a statement to the
Bombay Stock Exchange yesterday.  Gurumani continues to serve on the board of SKS, India’s
largest microfinance lender, the Hyderabad-based company said in
a response to the court. He “can take every possible action to
protect the interests of every person concerned as a member of
the board,” the court said in its ruling dated Oct. 8.  The company has withdrawn “all powers and authorities
granted” to Gurumani, it said in a statement to the Bombay
Stock Exchange on Oct. 4. The company’s management, including
founder Vikram Akula, hasn’t said why Gurumani was fired.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Singapore Whistleblower Ang Seng Thor Fined Rather Than Jailed  Ang Seng Thor, the former head of AEM-Evertech Holdings
Ltd., was fined rather than jailed for corruption by a Singapore
judge after disclosing bribes to companies including  Seagate
Technology Plc .  His whistle-blowing led to the full discovery of
wrongdoings that were difficult to find and prosecute, Singapore
District Judge John Ng said in his ruling yesterday. Ang, who
pleaded guilty, “played a passive role” in the bribery, Ng
said.  Ang told the board of Singapore-based AEM in 2005 that its
executives including himself and former Chairman Tok Kian You
bribed employees at Seagate and  Infineon Technologies AG ,
according to court papers. The former CEO also informed the
board of  STMicroelectronics NV  that bribes were given to its
executives.  Ang was fined a total of S$200,000 ($153,000) for two
corruption charges and barred five years from being a company
director, Ng said. He could have been jailed for as long as five
years for each charge.  Wendell Wong, Ang’s lawyer, had asked for a fine instead of
a jail term, saying the prospect of imprisonment would deter
whistleblowers.  Singapore’s courts must accord a significant recognition to
whistleblowers, who deserve a discount on their sentence, Ng
said. “At the same time, we need not elevate whistle-blowing to
an exalted level,” he said.  AEM-Evertech was renamed  AEM Holdings Ltd.  in May 2007.  The case is Public Prosecutor v Ang Seng Thor DACs 20430-
5/2010 in the Singapore Subordinate Court.  Settles Brand Dispute With Founder Stelios  EasyJet Plc  resolved a brand-license dispute with founder
Stelios Haji-Ioannou, giving Europe’s second-largest discount
airline greater freedom to boost revenue through marketing deals
with other travel companies.  The airline will retain the right to the EasyJet name for
as long as 50 years, with a minimum commitment of 10 years, by
paying an annual royalty of 0.25 percent of total revenue, fixed
at 3.9 million pounds ($6.2 million) and 4.95 million pounds in
the first and second years, EasyJet said yesterday in a
statement. The Luton, England-based company reported sales of
2.67 billion pounds in the last fiscal year.  Stelios, who prefers to be known by his first name, alleged
that EasyJet had infringed on an agreement it signed with his
EasyGroup holding company in November 2000, shortly before the
 airline ’s initial offering of shares to investors. The dispute
centered on whether the carrier was violating terms of the
contract specifying that at least 75 percent of sales must come
from airline operations.  “We see this as a new chapter in working with EasyGroup
going forward,” EasyJet Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall
said yesterday on a conference call with reporters. “It gives
us more freedom to use the brand.”  EasyJet’s other investors, who must approve the agreement,
are “very supportive,” McCall said. The executive, who became
CEO in July, said the dispute with Stelios, the carrier’s
biggest shareholder, had cost the company about 4 million pounds
in legal fees.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 