-- Tradition Says ICAP Stifling Rivals by Blocking Brokers Moves to Singapore
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-10-12T16:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/icap-stifling-rivals-by-blocking-singapore-broker-moves-tradition-says.html
ICAP Plc’s effort to block 38 of its
brokers from moving to the Singapore unit of  Compagnie
Financiere Tradition SA  is a way to “stifle healthy
competition,” the Swiss company said in court papers.  There are no trade secrets in inter-dealer broking where
prices change constantly and clients are shared, Stephen Miles,
the managing director of Tradition’s Singapore operations, said
in a filing yesterday asking the Singapore High Court to lift
its temporary order preventing the hiring.  ICAP , the world’s largest broker of trades between banks,
last month won the order stopping the Singapore-based employees
from joining Tradition until the dispute is resolved, arguing
the workers had access to confidential data including client
lists, trading strategies and brokers’ pay.  Tradition, based in Lausanne, Switzerland, didn’t induce
the employees to breach their contracts with ICAP, Miles said in
the filing. Their departure was predicated on “push” factors,
he said, including a move into electronic trading that would
have resulted in job cuts.  “The individuals have a right to work and should not be
deprived of this fundamental right,” Miles said of the brokers
who have been prevented from joining Tradition, the world’s
third-largest inter-dealer broker.  Miles noted ICAP said in its Sept. 30 trading statement
that it didn’t view the impact of the potential Singapore
defections as being material.  “This lawsuit is simply about protecting our commercial
interests through enforcing the terms of employment contracts
that both we and our employees have agreed,”  Mike Sheard , a
spokesman for London-based ICAP, said in an e-mail.  Tradition’s Chile unit has also sued units of ICAP for $48
million for raiding its Chilean business operations in New York,
Miles said. Tradition Chile Agentes de Valores Ltda and
Tradition North America Inc. also sought a court order in
December blocking “disloyal employees” from joining ICAP.  “The ICAP Group is certainly not a stranger to aggressive
hiring,” Miles said.  The case is ICAP AP (Singapore) Pte. vs. M. Divakaran & Ors
S724/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  