-- Nordic Nations Do Most to Encourage Gender Equality, Study Says
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/iceland-leads-nordic-nations-doing-most-for-gender-equality-study-finds.html
The world is moving toward greater
equality between men and women, with Iceland keeping its lead in
a ranking of 134 nations and the U.S. climbing into the top 20,
according to a report by the  World Economic Forum.   Iceland, Norway, Finland and Sweden “demonstrated great
equality between men and women,” according to the Global Gender
Gap Index released today. Of the countries surveyed, 59 percent
narrowed the gap in the past year.  “It’s very encouraging that more countries are becoming
aware of why it’s important to reduce the gender gap and are
starting to explore policies that may be needed,”  Saadia Zahidi , head of the Forum’s Women Leaders and Gender Parity
program, said in an interview.  Gender equality fosters competitiveness and growth in both
rich and poor countries, Zahidi said. Worldwide, gaps are
narrowing between men and women’s health and education, while
women lagged behind in economic participation, which includes
salaried and skilled jobs, according to the report.  The report assesses life expectancy, salaries, access to
high-skilled jobs, access to basic and higher level education,
and whether women were represented in government and decision-
making structures.  The review, begun in 2006, looks at how countries divide
resources and opportunities for men and women, regardless of the
level of resources available.  New Zealand  Top performers from 2009  also led in the 2010 survey.
Iceland, with Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir  in power
since 2009, ranked first; Norway and Finland switched rankings
with Norway second in the current survey. Sweden was ranked
fourth, and New Zealand retained fifth place.  Among the top 20, Belgium improved most, to 14th this year
from 33rd in 2009, in part because of improvements in wages,
labor force participation and the number of women in government
ministries.  The U.S. rose to No. 19 -- jumping 12 positions -- in part
because women now hold 33 percent of leading jobs in the
administration of President  Barack Obama , compared with 24
percent in 2009, the report showed. Still, the country ranked
40th in political empowerment, with Iceland claiming the top
spot.  A rise in estimated earned income for American women, to
$34,996 from $25,613, also helped the U.S. move into the top 20
this year. Estimated earnings are measured in terms of
purchasing power parity, or the exchange rate at which one
nation’s price level equals another’s.  France Declines  Among countries that declined in the rankings, France sank
to 46th place from 18th as the number of women in government
positions fell. South Africa slid six spots to 12th place, also
because of the loss of women in government leadership jobs. The
Netherlands declined to 17th place from 11th.  The bottom three spots this year went to Pakistan at 132,
followed by Chad and Yemen at 134. They had the same ranks in
2009.  Denmark, Philippines, the U.K. and Sri Lanka were at the
same rank compared with 2009, helping them remain among the top
20 this year.  Lesotho, in sub-Saharan Africa, gained two places to be
ranked eighth, the study showed. Lesotho also topped the list on
economic participation and was among the countries ranked No. 1
on literacy. It was the only sub-Saharan country found to have
no gap in education and health, and it has more girls than boys
enrolled in primary and secondary schools.  The study also assessed overall performance of the
countries since the gender gap was first assessed by the World
Economic Forum. Eighty-six percent of the 114 countries covered
narrowed their gender gaps by 2009 compared with 2006, while 14
percent saw a widening of the disparity.  The report was the result of collaboration between Zahidi;
 Ricardo Hausmann , director of the Center for International
Development at Harvard University; and  Laura Tyson , professor of
business administration and economics at the University of
California, Berkeley.  To contact the report on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  