-- Fast Cancellations Had No Role in Rout, Exchanges Say
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-13T14:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/high-frequency-order-cancellations-had-no-role-in-may-crash-exchanges-say.html
Deliberate attempts by traders to
overwhelm exchanges with orders played no role in the May 6
crash, operators of the biggest U.S. stock markets said.  “We have zero evidence of any quote stuffing,”  Brian Hyndman , senior vice president for transaction services at
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. , said yesterday at a panel in New York
arranged by the Capital Markets Consortium. “The majority of
activity that occurred on May 6 wasn’t quote stuffing, it was
quote withdrawals.”  The executives disputed speculation by Winnetka, Illinois-
based market-data provider  Nanex LLC , which said high-frequency
traders who submitted and then canceled thousands of rapid-fire
quotations on the New York Stock Exchange destabilized trading.
A report by federal regulators said the plunge was triggered by
the sale of futures contracts on the  Chicago Mercantile Exchange 
that set off a chain of selling that bled into stocks and
exchange-traded funds.  Some critics of U.S. market regulation weren’t satisfied by
the Oct. 1 report by the Securities and Exchange Commission and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, arguing that predatory
strategies by professional investors played a bigger role in the
rout. While the study said selling was worsened by automated
firms trading with one another, it placed no emphasis on the
practice that has come to be known as quote stuffing, in which
investors allegedly seek an advantage by delaying data feeds.  More Scrutiny  Democratic Senators  Ted Kaufman  from Delaware and  Charles Schumer  from New York have called for more scrutiny of the high
rate of canceled orders since Nanex began publishing reports in
June about spikes in quotation data within fractions of a
second. Data technology companies that identify trading-message
delays on exchanges have tracked sudden spikes, or micro bursts,
of quote volume for several years.  “I’m less interested in whether someone is doing it
intentionally or not,” Nanex founder  Eric Hunsader  said in an
interview yesterday. Rather, Nanex is trying to highlight the
danger posed by rapidly canceled orders on exchanges’ ability to
produce timely data. “The system can’t handle the growth we’re
seeing,” he said.  The NYSE experienced record quotation traffic and
“significant delays” in the dissemination of data on May 6,
according to the SEC and CFTC report. No evidence was found that
delays led to price declines since most high-frequency firms --
the providers of the bulk of  liquidity  in the market -- use
private data feeds from exchanges instead of publicly available
information. Regulators said the delays may have exacerbated
concern about the accuracy of prices, encouraging liquidity
providers to reduce their trading.  No Evidence  The evidence doesn’t support claims that delays “triggered
or otherwise caused the extreme  volatility  in security prices
observed that day,” regulators wrote. “Our investigation to
date reveals that the largest and most erratic price moves
observed on May 6 were caused by withdrawals of liquidity.”  NYSE  was in the process of upgrading data systems on May 6,
the report said. For more than five minutes starting at 2:44
p.m. in New York, its quotes in 1,665 securities were delayed by
5 to 20 seconds or more. Quotations in the same securities
disseminated through its private feeds had an average delay of
.008 second, the report said. Nanex compiled information about
specific delays on NYSE before the SEC-CFTC report.  ‘Level of Accuracy’  “There’s a level of accuracy in the Nanex report in that
there were quote delays on May 6 through the consolidated
feeds,” said  Joseph Mecane , co-head of U.S. listings and cash
execution at NYSE Euronext, which owns the New York Stock
Exchange. “NYSE had some quote delays on that day because of
the spike in message traffic.”  Less convincing are “allegations about people
intentionally trying to gum up the works without any evidence,”
Mecane said. Executives at Bats Global Markets and Direct Edge
Holdings LLC, the third- and fourth-biggest American equity
exchanges, said their venues saw no sign of abusive quoting
activity on May 6, when a 20-minute rout erased $862 billion
from the value of U.S. shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We look at things like quote-to-trade ratios, we look at
message traffic,” said  Joe Bracco , vice president at Bats in
Kansas City, Missouri. “We haven’t seen any impact on our
system as a result of these high message rates that Nanex is
claiming.”  Direct Edge didn’t observe “any obvious signs of bad
behavior or so-called quote stuffing,” according to Bryan
Harkins, head of sales and strategy at the Jersey City, New
Jersey-based company.  Big Problem  “If it’s not intentional, it sure is one heck of an
accidental problem that no one seems to be learning from or
doing anything about,” Hunsader said yesterday. He added that
the quoting behavior he identified has stopped and started again
on different exchanges since May 6 and also occurred before
then. “It looks like somebody is aware of it,” he said.  Hunsader added that the reports his company produces are
neutral and based on facts. “No one has said, ‘Your data is
wrong,’” he said.  Hunsader and other critics of U.S. market structure have
urged exchanges to adopt a fee for quote cancellations that
exceed a certain rate and said bids and offers should remain
available to investors for a minimum amount of time. Such
initiatives may curtail the ability of firms to submit and
cancel orders rapidly, Hunsader said.  Regulators and exchanges should be “careful about the
problem we’re trying to solve with any of those initiatives,”
said Mecane of NYSE. “They lend themselves to pendulum-type
consequences” that could push liquidity out of the market as
firms opt to avoid risks they can’t manage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 