-- RIM Has Until Year-End to Resolve BlackBerry Access Dispute With India
-- B y   S a n t o s h   K u m a r   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-10-12T20:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/india-gives-2-more-months-to-rim-to-provide-blackberry-security-solution.html
India’s government gave  Research In
Motion Ltd.  until the end of the year to come up with a solution
to allow security agencies to monitor RIM’s BlackBerry
enterprise e-mail service, a government official said.  The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, didn’t
give more details. The official said that a two-month reprieve
granted at the end of August would be extended by another two
months.  RIM averted a ban in the world’s second-largest mobile-
phone market by giving a temporary solution on Aug. 30 to allow
monitoring of BlackBerry data. India, concerned that terrorists
may take advantage of the encryption in smartphones, has stepped
up its scrutiny over the telecommunications industry since the
2008 Mumbai terror attacks that left 166 dead.  The company was also expected to offer a permanent
solution, that would include real-time access, in three to four
months, Home Secretary  G.K. Pillai  said last month. India’s
dispute with the Canadian company resumed this year after RIM
upgraded BlackBerry encryption, making it difficult for Indian
authorities to access data, Pillai said at the time.  Satchit Gayakwad, a spokesman in Mumbai for Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM, didn’t respond to a call to his mobile phone.  Emirates, Saudi Arabia  Last week, RIM averted a ban in the United Arab Emirates,
when the country’s phone regulator said it wouldn’t implement a
planned stoppage of BlackBerry service. While the regulator said
it wanted to acknowledge RIM’s “positive engagement and
collaboration,” it didn’t say whether the deal allows it to
monitor messages sent by BlackBerry users.  Saudi Arabian authorities canceled a planned shutdown in
August, citing the “positive development” in meeting the
country’s monitoring needs.  RIM said Oct. 8 it continues to follow the principles for
working with government officials it laid out in an Aug. 12
statement and wouldn’t comment further on confidential
regulatory matters. In that statement, RIM said it doesn’t do
“special deals for specific countries,” adding that the
security of its corporate e-mail system hasn’t changed.  RIM has also said it cannot help governments access
corporate e-mail systems because corporate customers hold the
encryption keys to those e-mail servers, not RIM.  RIM rose 29 cents to $48.97 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has dropped 27 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Santosh Kumar  in New Delhi at 
 sthakur10@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  