-- India’s Industrial Production Growth Slows to 5.6%
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-10-12T07:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/india-industrial-output-growth-slows-more-than-estimates-after-rate-rises.html
India’s industrial production growth
slowed to a 15-month low in August, adding to evidence that
inflation and the impact of five interest-rate increases this
year are prompting companies to curb output.  Factory, utilities and mines output rose 5.6 percent from a
year earlier after a revised 15.2 percent increase in July, the
statistics office said in a statement in New Delhi today. The
median estimate of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 9.5 percent gain in August.  Bond yields fell on speculation the central bank will weigh
the risks to industrial output against the need to raise rates
to curb inflation. Benchmark  wholesale prices  rose 8.5 percent
in August and Reserve Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao 
said Oct. 9 that inflation is being “quite stubborn” after the
most aggressive round of monetary policy tightening in Asia.  “The Reserve Bank will be looking at this number, which
has become very erratic, before deciding on rates next month,”
said  Anubhuti Sahay , an economist at Standard Chartered Plc in
Mumbai. “We think inflation remains a problem and we still
expect a 25 basis-point increase in rates in the Nov. 2 monetary
policy announcement.”  Bond Yields  Ten-year government bond yields fell two basis points to
8.02 percent at 11:53 a.m. from earlier in Mumbai while the
Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  declined 0.9 percent.
The currency slid 0.7 percent to 44.63 per dollar.  India’s central bank has raised its benchmark rates the
most among Asian central banks this year. The central bank’s
 reverse repurchase rate  is 5 percent and the repurchase rate is
6 percent.  Manufacturing grew 5.9 percent in August after a 16.7
percent gain in July, today’s report showed. Mining output
growth slowed to 7 percent from 9.9 percent and electricity
production grew one percent after a 3.7 percent gain during the
period.  In China, where industrial production gained a faster-than-
estimated 13.9 percent in August from a year earlier, the
central bank raised reserve requirements for six lenders, three
people with knowledge of the matter said.  India’s  industrial output has fluctuated  since May, when it
registered an 11.3 percent expansion. The growth dropped to 5.8
percent in June and rebounded to 15.2 percent in July, according
to government data.  ‘High Volatility’  The “high volatility” in the industrial output data
“raises some doubts” about how effectively the index reflects
the underlying growth momentum, the central bank said on Sept.
16, without giving a reason for the variations.  Dollar-denominated bond sales in India this year reached
$7.4 billion, up from $1.5 billion in the similar period of 2009
and $3 billion in 2008, Bloomberg data show, showing investor
optimism worldwide about the nation’s growth prospects.  India’s billionaires are preparing to sell the longest-
dated dollar-denominated bonds in more than a decade.  Reliance Industries Ltd., the oil refiner controlled by
Mukesh Ambani, is organizing a sale of bonds with maturities of
up to 30 years, India’s longest-dated dollar notes since at
least January 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Essar Energy Plc, controlled by Shashi and  Ravi Ruia , may sell
its first foreign-currency bonds next year.  “On the growth front, while there is a certain amount of
volatility visible in industrial production, by and large, there
is no significant indication of the recovery stalling,” Reserve
Bank Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said Oct. 5. “The current
inflation scenario is a cause of concern as the inflation rate
persists well above the upper bound of the comfort zone.”  Inflation Woes  India’s key  wholesale-price inflation  rate may remain
unchanged at 8.5 percent in September from a year earlier,
according to the median of 23 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. The central bank is aiming to cool inflation to 6
percent by March 31. The commerce ministry is scheduled to
unveil the inflation data on Oct. 15.  The rupee has gained 3.9 percent against the dollar in the
past month, becoming Asia’s best performer, as global funds
pumped a record $21 billion into Indian stocks this year. The
Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive  Index  has climbed 7.2 percent
since Sept. 10.  Industrial output may be supported through the rest of the
year by consumers buying cars and new housing.  The International Monetary Fund last week raised its 2010
economic growth forecast for India to 9.7 percent from 9.4
percent, citing strengthening local consumer demand.  India’s automaking association last week doubled its
forecast for car-sales growth this fiscal year as rising incomes
prompted drivers to buy a record number of vehicles for a third
straight month.  Car sales may gain about 23 percent in the year ending
March, compared with the 12 percent growth predicted in July,
the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers said. Sales by
companies including  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.  and Ford Motor Co.
rose 30 percent in September, the group said.  Ambuja Cements Ltd. , a unit of Holcim Ltd., the world’s
second-largest cement maker, said this month sales rose 8.8
percent more in September than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  