-- India Adds Economic Power to UN Bloc Skeptical Over U.S. Pressure on Iran
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-10-12T20:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/india-adds-economic-power-to-brazil-south-africa-in-security-council-bloc.html
India, elected to the United Nations
Security Council today, will join Brazil and South Africa in a
bloc of emerging powers resistant to using sanctions to pressure
countries, the Indian envoy to the world body said.  “Trade between the three is large and we see eye-to-eye on
a large number of issues,” India’s Ambassador  Hardeep Singh Puri  said in an interview. “Insofar as issues relating to human
rights are concerned, we have always believed in the policies of
persuasion, hand-holding and capacity building.”  Harsher measures, Puri said, should only be employed as a
“last resort for a serial abuser.”  India and South Africa were elected by the UN General
Assembly to two-year terms on the Security Council, along with
Colombia, Germany and Portugal. The new members will take their
seats on Jan. 1, replacing Austria, Japan, Mexico, Turkey and
Uganda.  India, South Africa and Brazil, which was elected last
year, formed a coalition in 2003 to act as a voice for
developing nations. Brazil ranked eighth and India 11th in gross
domestic product last year, and South Africa had Africa’s
largest economy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “These countries will of necessity work together,” South
Africa’s Department of International Relations and Cooperation
said in a statement.  The Security Council in the next year may be pressed to
consider sanctions to curb alleged human rights abuses in Sudan,
Myanmar and Zimbabwe, or be asked by the U.S. to adopt tougher
measures to block the nuclear programs of Iran and North Korea.  ‘All Diplomatic Instruments’  Puri said that India’s priority in dealing with such
nuclear proliferation issues was to “use all diplomatic
instruments you have at your disposal.”  The Obama administration said it “welcomes” the
collection of regional economic powers on the council, including
five -- Brazil, Germany, India, Nigeria and South Africa -- that
are campaigning for permanent seats.  “These are countries that have been playing significant
roles and in some cases increasing roles in their respective
regions for some time,” State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in a statement. “The global challenges that we
face cannot be solved by any one country. They’re going to need
significant engagement, involvement and support from these
emerging powers.”  ‘Strong’ Council  Britain’s Ambassador  Mark Lyall Grant  told reporters it
would be a “very strong” Security Council.  The elected members, lacking a veto, can block needed
consensus on bringing issues before the council and obstruct
proposed statements condemning governments. Britain, China,
France, Russia and the U.S. are the Security Council’s veto-
holding permanent members.  Expanding economies will give Brazil, India and South
Africa considerable political clout, according to  Jeff Laurenti ,
a UN analyst at the New York-based Century Foundation research
group.  “On various sanctions proposals, when they come up, these
are nations that can command respect because they have the
economic power to constrain and constrict a miscreant country,”
Laurenti said in an interview. “Twenty years ago, who would
have cared what Brazil or India said? Now you don’t want to be
riding roughshod over them.”  South Africa, which was on the  Security Council  in 2007-
2008, joined China and Russia at the time in voting against a
U.S.-backed resolution that would have pressed Myanmar’s
military government to free political prisoners and move toward
democracy.  Iran Sanctions  Brazil voted in June against sanctions intended to block
Iran’s possible pursuit of a nuclear weapons capability, a
measure that passed with Chinese and Russian support.  India, last elected to the Security Council in 1990,
signaled possible opposition to sanctions on Iran before the
June vote. India’s government released a statement saying it
“conveyed to the U.S. that sanctions on Iran have proved to be
counterproductive and that all differences with Iran should be
resolved peacefully through dialogue and negotiations.”  Since the Security Council passed tougher sanctions on
Iran, the U.S. has stepped up pressure on Iran’s banks and the
country’s national security leadership, and on companies that
invest in Iran’s energy industry.  Crude Oil Imports  India is one of Iran’s largest crude oil customers. It is
also pursuing the import of Iranian natural gas through a
pipeline that transits Pakistan, Oil Minister  Murli Deora  said
in a written reply to a question in parliament in August.  Puri said India hadn’t been a candidate for a Security
Council seat since being “traumatized” by a loss to Japan in
1996. India’s term on the council will serve as an audition for
possible permanent status, he said.  “We will use the time to give our partners a sense of
confidence and build trust so they are comfortable with our
membership on the Security Council on an extended basis,” Puri
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  