-- India Adds Economic Power to Security Council Bloc With Brazil, Envoy Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-10-12T16:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/india-adds-economic-power-to-un-bloc-skeptical-over-u-s-pressure-on-iran.html
India and South Africa were elected
today to the  United Nations  Security Council, and will join
Brazil in a bloc of emerging economic powers that may resist
U.S. pressure to adopt tighter sanctions on Iran.  Colombia and Germany also were elected to two-year terms on
the council after receiving the required two-thirds majority of
the 192 member nations of the UN General Assembly. Portugal is
set to prevail over Canada in three ballots.  Brazil, India and South Africa formed a coalition in 2003
to act as a voice for developing nations. Brazil ranked eighth
and India 11th in gross domestic product last year, and South
Africa had Africa’s largest economy, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “These countries will of necessity work together,” South
Africa’s Department of International Relations and Cooperation
said in a statement today that referred to its coalition with
India and Brazil.  The five new members will take seats on Jan. 1 that are now
held by Austria, Japan, Mexico, Turkey and Uganda. Brazil was
elected last year, along with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Gabon,
Lebanon and Nigeria.  The expanding economies of India, Brazil and South Africa
will give them political clout on the UN’s principal policy-
making body, according to  Jeff Laurenti , a UN analyst at the New
York-based Century Foundation research group.  ‘Command Respect’  “On various sanctions proposals, when they come up, these
are nations that can command respect because they have the
economic power to constrain and constrict a miscreant country,”
Laurenti said in an interview. “Twenty years ago, who would have
cared what Brazil or India said? Now you don’t want to be riding
roughshod over them.”  South Africa, which was on the  Security Council  in 2007-
2008, joined China and Russia at the time in voting against a
U.S.-backed resolution that would have pressed Myanmar’s
military government to free political prisoners and move toward
democracy.  Brazil voted in June against sanctions intended to block
Iran’s possible pursuit of a nuclear weapons capability, a
measure that passed with Chinese and Russian support. China,
Russia, France, the U.K. and the U.S. hold permanent seats on
the 15-nation council and can veto measures.  India, last elected to the Security Council in 1990,
signaled possible opposition to sanctions on Iran before the
June vote. India’s government released a statement saying it
“conveyed to the U.S. that sanctions on Iran have proved to be
counterproductive and that all differences with Iran should be
resolved peacefully through dialogue and negotiations.”  Since the Security Council passed tougher sanctions on
Iran, the U.S. has stepped up pressure on Iran’s banks and the
country’s national security leadership, and on companies that
invest in Iran’s energy industry.  India is one of Iran’s largest crude oil customers. It is
also pursuing the import of Iranian natural gas through a
pipeline that transits Pakistan, Oil Minister  Murli Deora  said
in a written reply to a question in parliament in August.  The Security Council’s elected members, lacking a veto, can
block needed consensus on bringing issues before the body and
obstruct proposed statements condemning governments including
Sudan, Myanmar and Zimbabwe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  