-- Intel's Fourth-Quarter Revenue Forecast Tops Analyst Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-10-13T20:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/intel-s-fourth-quarter-sales-forecast-tops-estimates-as-demand-revives.html
Intel Corp. , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, predicted fourth-quarter sales that may be more than
analysts’ estimates, helped by demand in emerging economies.  Revenue will range from $11 billion to $11.8 billion, Santa
Clara, California-based Intel said yesterday in a statement.
That compares with the  average  analyst projection of $11.3
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Corporations and households in less developed markets
bought more computers, helping Intel weather slumping demand
among consumers in the U.S. and Europe, Intel Chief Financial
Officer  Stacy Smith  said in an interview. The outlook bodes well
for computer makers, including Dell Inc. and Hewlett-Packard
Co., which benefit when businesses upgrade dated machines.  “It’s reassuring that things aren’t declining
dramatically,” said  Michael Shinnick , a fund manager at Wasatch
Advisors Inc. in South Bend, Indiana. His company owns Intel
shares as part of the $8.5 billion in assets it manages.
“Corporate spend is quite strong, but there is some softness on
the consumer side.”  The last four weeks of the third quarter were better than
the company predicted, Smith said on a call with  analysts . The
improvement in demand was the basis for the company’s
predictions for this period. Component inventory remains
“lean” throughout the computer supply chain, he said.  No Double Dip  Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said the PC industry
is still on course to grow 18 percent this year. He doesn’t
anticipate a double-dip recession and sees 2011 as being a
“pretty good” year for computer sales.  Intel  fell 53 cents to $19.24 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have lost 5.7 percent
this year.  Third-quarter  net income  rose 59 percent to $2.96 billion,
or 52 cents a share, from $1.86 billion, or 33 cents, a  year 
earlier. Analysts had estimated a profit of 50 cents a share.
Revenue increased 18 percent to $11.1 billion, compared with an
average prediction of $11 billion.  Gross margin , the only profit indicator that Intel
forecasts, will be about 67 percent this quarter, within “a
couple” of percentage points, the company said. The margin --
the percentage of sales remaining after deducting production
costs -- was 66 percent in the third quarter.  Consumer Weakness  “It’s clearly a positive for those companies in the PC and
enterprise space,” said  Pat Becker Jr.  of Becker Capital
Management Inc. in Portland, Oregon. The company owns shares of
Intel as part of the $2.2 billion it oversees. “The margins in
that help overcome some of the weakness we’ve seen in the
consumer in August.”  In August, when  Intel  revised projections, it said gross
margins wouldn’t reach the high end of an earlier forecast,
coming in at 65 percent to 67 percent. At the time, Intel said
third-quarter results would be less than expected, citing weaker
consumer demand for personal computers in mature markets.  “We saw demand strength in emerging markets and the
enterprise segment of the market,” Smith said in the interview.
“It was offset by consumer demand in developed markets being a
little less than we thought when we started the quarter.”  Otellini played down the threat posed by  Apple Inc. ’s iPad
and other tablet computers that don’t feature Intel chips.
Tablet sales won’t undermine PC demand, and Intel is winning
contracts to get its chips into the devices, he said.  “You’re dealing with numbers that are relatively small,”
Otellini said. “It gets to be a factor, but a secondary
factor.”  Intel, whose chips run more than 80 percent of the world’s
personal computers, kicks off three weeks of earnings reports by
the largest U.S. technology companies, including  International
Business Machines Corp. , Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp.  The company -- which agreed to buy McAfee Inc. for $7.68
billion last quarter, its biggest acquisition -- isn’t
considering another “large” purchase right now, Smith said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  