-- Investors Target U.S. Commercial Properties After Drop in Values, DTZ Says
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-10-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/investors-target-u-s-commercial-properties-after-drop-in-values-dtz-says.html
Commercial-property investors are
preparing to spend more in the U.S. next year after more than
two years of declining values,  DTZ Group Plc  said.  Funds and investment companies increased the capital
available for deals in the Americas by 54 percent since December
to $97 billion, the London-based real-estate broker said in a
report today. Most of this will be used for U.S. transactions.  Gains in the U.S. and the Asia-Pacific region lifted the
total amount that may be invested in real estate worldwide by 22
percent to $281 billion, DTZ estimates. The third quarter was
the most active in two years for U.S. sales, according to New
York-based  Real Capital Analytics  Inc., which expects the
country’s share of global property deals to double from last
year’s 11.6 percent.  “The U.S. is seen as the most attractive market
globally,” said  Nigel Almond , the associate director of
forecasting and strategy research who wrote DTZ’s report.  About $71 billion is available in the Asia-Pacific region,
29 percent more than in December, DTZ estimates. In Europe, the
amount of capital that could be used for transactions is
unchanged at $112 billion.  U.S. investments generated a return of 3.3 percent from
rental income during the second quarter and the first gains in
property values in two years, according to the Chicago-based
 National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries.   DTZ’s Almond said the increased amount of money earmarked
for real estate reflects how companies “have taken advantage of
the access to capital markets to place them in a better position
to target new opportunities.”  Share Sales  U.S. real estate investment trusts raised $21.2 billion
through secondary share sales last year to pay dividends and
reduce debt, according to the National Association of REITs. In
the first nine months, companies including BioMed Realty Trust
Inc., Duke Realty Corp. and UDR Inc. tapped the equity markets
again to raise about $12 billion for acquisitions.  Lower returns from fixed-income securities and equities are
persuading investors like  Allianz SE , Europe’s biggest insurer,
to earmark more money to real estate. The Munich-based company
said last week that it has about 10 billion euros ($14 billion)
available to invest, some of which will go into the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 