-- Invista to Fold Up After Lloyds, Its Biggest Customer, Cancels Contracts
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-10-12T16:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/invista-will-wind-up-business-after-losing-biggest-customer.html
Invista Real Estate Management
Holdings Plc , the U.K.’s biggest publicly traded property fund
manager, plans to fold after  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  decided to
take away almost half of the company’s business. The shares fell
to the lowest price in 20 months.  Invista will sell all remaining assets including its fund-
management business and return the money to shareholders, the
company said in a statement today.  Lloyds, which owns 55 percent of the shares, will cancel
contracts for Invista to oversee 2.4 billion pounds ($3.8
billion) of assets effective next October. The company will
transfer the money to its Scottish Widows Investment Partnership
fund unit, SWIP said in a separate statement.  Lloyds, which became  41 percent -owned by the U.K. after its
acquisition of HBOS Plc forced the bank to seek a bailout, has
been consolidating its fund-management assets into SWIP since
the takeover. It transferred 42 billion pounds to SWIP from
HBOS’s Insight fund unit last year.  Invista fell 2 pence, or 5.2 percent, to 36.5 pence in
London trading, the lowest price since February 2009. The stock
has slumped 29 percent this year, cutting its market value to
96.6 million pounds.  “It was a difficult decision,” Invista Chairman  Douglas Ferrans  said in an interview. “It is probably too small to stay
as an independent company.”  Potential Bidders  The company has already received calls from potential
bidders interested in buying all or parts of the remaining
business, he said. Invista has assets valued at more than 100
million pounds on its balance sheet, in addition to 2.9 billion
pounds of fund assets it oversees for third-party clients.  “It is more likely we will find buyers for the two
separate component parts,” Ferrans said. “We are trading at a
discount to the potential breakup value of the company.”  Invista began trading publicly in 2006 when HBOS sold a
minority stake to investors. It was awarded five-year contracts
at the time to manage property funds for clients of HBOS and its
units Clerical Medical and Halifax Life. The Lloyds contracts
accounted for 44 percent of Invista’s assets as of June 30 and
39 percent of first-half revenue.  Both  Invista Foundation Property Trust Ltd.  and Invista
European Real Estate Trust SICAF, closed-end funds managed by
Invista Real Estate, are in talks with the manager about their
options, the trusts said in separate statements today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 