-- Irish Bank Bondholders Should Agree Talks Before Potential Loss, BNP Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-10-12T13:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/irish-bank-bondholders-should-agree-talks-before-potential-loss-bnp-says.html
Senior bondholders of Ireland’s
distressed banks should agree to talk about accepting
impairments now because they may face greater losses in future,
according to strategists at  BNP Paribas SA .  Ireland is shaping up as a battleground over the rights of
owners of senior bank notes because the nation faces a bill of
more than 50 billion euros ($69 billion) to prop up lenders.
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  is raising the possibility of
talks with investors in senior debt while arguing it “isn’t
viable” to inflict losses.  “There’s been a sort of gentlemen’s agreement so far that
senior bank bondholders don’t take losses,” said  Gregory Venizelos , a credit strategist at the bank in London. “The
realization may be setting in that with Anglo Irish it may be
worth getting out now at a bit of a discount than a few years
down the line finding the rescue didn’t work and losing more.”  Ireland plans legislation that’s expected to force junior
noteholders of nationalized banks to accept a loss. With
elections due to take place by 2012, holders of senior bonds may
have another reason to agree to talks now because the current
government may not survive,  according to Venizelos.  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. ’s 1.25 billion euros of senior
floating-rate notes due 2012 are quoted at 87.6 cents on the
euro, according to pricing data compiled by Bloomberg. The
government has pledged more than 30 billion euros of taxpayers’
money to ensure the  nationalized lender survives.  Bond Yield  The bond price equates to a yield of about 10.5 percent for
a note paying a fixed rate of interest, Bloomberg analytics
show. That compares with an average yield of 6.31 percent on
European banks with ratings in the three BBB categories, the
grouping that holds Anglo Irish, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  “For Ireland, the legal and reputational hurdle is too
high to force a haircut on senior bondholders,” said Venizelos.
“That’s not to say that the bondholders may not have good
reason to come to an agreement with the government now.”  The wider issue is how investors will react to that
scenario, he said. They may reprice the senior notes of weaker
banks and continue to lend to the stronger ones, or they may
charge more “across the board, with potentially grave
implications for bank funding costs,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  