-- Israel-Palestinian Peace Deal Is Still Possible Within a Year, U.S. Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-13T09:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/israel-palestinian-peace-deal-is-still-possible-within-a-year-u-s-says.html
Israelis and Palestinians can still
reach a peace agreement, even with the current impasse over
renewing a moratorium on Israeli settlements, the U.S. said.  “We believe this can be resolved in a year’s time,” State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday. “We need
the commitment from the two sides to stay in direct talks.”  Palestinians have said they won’t return to negotiations
unless Israel resumes a partial freeze on West Bank construction
that expired Sept. 26. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said he
would renew the moratorium if the Palestinian leadership, “in
an unequivocal manner,” recognized Israel as a Jewish state.
Palestinians rejected the proposal.  Former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair  said today that he
continues to see a “real chance for peace” in the region. “If
we can get this negotiation back on track again,” Blair said
via satellite to a conference in Seoul, “we can make
progress.”  Blair is the Middle East coordinator for the so-called
Quartet -- the U.S., the United Nations, Russia and the European
Union -- that is supporting the peace talks.  President  Barack Obama  has made establishing an Israeli-
Palestinian peace deal a U.S. foreign-policy goal from his first
days in office. Direct talks between the two sides began in
Washington Sept. 2 and stumbled soon after Jewish settlers
resumed building in the West Bank.  Focus on Borders  The U.S. is working on formulas to prevent the peace talks
from getting stalled by disputes every few months, Crowley said.
One approach involves having the two parties focus up-front on
the issue of borders, which would neutralize disagreements about
Israeli settlements, he said.  “We’ve asked Israel and the United States to give us a map
that outlines the borders they propose,” the chief Palestinian
negotiator, Saeb Erakat, said today in a telephone interview.
“Our position is that the borders must be based on the 1967
lines” that existed before Israel captured east Jerusalem and
the West Bank.  It is important that the two leaders are still engaged in
discussions, even while they’re unable to come to an agreement,
Crowley said.  “Now you have leaders saying, ‘This is what I’m going to
contribute to the process, this is what I need to get out of the
process to be able to convince my respective constituencies that
there is value in continuing,’” Crowley said. “Those
exchanges, we hope, will help continue the process.”  Palestinian Refugees  Palestinians reject the Israeli demand to be recognized as
a Jewish state because they expect it would make it difficult
for them to claim land for Palestinian refugees evicted from
what is now Israel during the battles that led to Israel’s
founding.  Israel says such recognition is necessary to ensure the
Palestinians don’t make additional claims once a peace treaty
has been signed.  “There is value in continuing with this process,” Crowley
said. “There is no other way to resolve core issues except
through these direct negotiations.”  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and east
Jerusalem since 1967.  The United Nations says that settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. Obama has said the settlements aren’t legitimate.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 