-- Titan's Implanted Addiction-Drug Device Works Better Than Placebo in Study
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-10-12T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/titan-s-implanted-addiction-drug-device-works-better-than-placebo-in-study.html
Titan Pharmaceuticals Inc. ’s
implanted drug-delivery device helped people fight addiction to
heroin and prescription painkillers better than a placebo, a
company-funded study found.  The Titan product, shaped like an inch-long match-stick, is
implanted under the skin and delivers continuously the drug
buprenorphine. Patients implanted with the device showed they
were free of illegal opiates in about 40 percent of urine tests
in the first 16 weeks, compared with 28 percent of those getting
the placebo implant. People on the drug had fewer withdrawal
symptoms, according to research published today.  The experimental device,  Probuphine , is designed to help
addicts who either skip or forget to take doses of
buprenorphine, a medicine that reduces craving for opioids and
symptoms of withdrawal. The study represents the third of three
phases of tests generally required for U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval. Titan plans to seek clearance of
Probuphine in the U.S. and Europe.  “The implant is going to make a significant impact in the
way people with opioid addiction can receive treatment,” said
Katherine Beebe, senior vice president of clinical development
and medical affairs for South San Francisco, California-based
Titan. “It delivers a very low level of drugs and the side
effects associated with the implant are tolerable.”  Treating Addiction  Buprenorphine  is sold for the treatment of  addiction  to
opiates, including the prescription painkiller OxyContin, under
the brand names Suboxone and Subutex by  Reckitt Benckiser Group
Plc , based in Slough, U.K.  Another standard treatment for addiction to opiates is
methadone.  Alkermes Inc . of Waltham, Massachusetts, has applied to the
FDA to market its alcoholism drug, Vivitrol as a treatment for
opiate addiction.  In today’s study, published in the Journal of the American
Medical Association, Titan’s Probuphine was implanted under the
arms of patients to deliver a continuous dose of the medicine
for six months.  “Buprenorphine treatment by all accounts is a big success
for treating opioid addiction,” said  Walter Ling , the lead
study author, who is a professor of psychiatry and director of
the Integrated Substance Abuse Programs at the University of
California, Los Angeles, in a telephone interview today. Ling
reported receiving research support from Titan and Reckitt
Benckiser.  FDA Approval  Beebe declined to say when the company would seek FDA
approval for Probuphine. Titan’s chief executive officer,  Sunil Bhonsle , said today that the company is exploring its options,
including the possibility of partnering to sell Probuphine. He
declined to name any companies Titan has spoken with.  In the study, researchers included 163 adults ages 18 to 65
years who were diagnosed as dependent on opiates. Of those, 108
were given either four or five Probuphine implants and 55
received placebo implants. All participants were provided with
drug counseling. Some patients in each group also received extra
buprenorphine tablets to help with cravings and withdrawal
symptoms during the study.  About 66 percent of patients given Probuphine completed the
study compared with 31 percent of the placebo group.  For the duration of the six-month study, 37 percent of the
urine samples in the Probuphine group tested negative compared
with 22 percent in the placebo group.  “It’s very, very hard to get an addict to completely stop
using the drug, particularly early in treatment,” Beebe said.
She said many of the people in the study were just beginning
treatment to fight their addiction, a challenge that can take
months or years.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  