-- RBS Wins Lawsuit Against Hicks, Gillett, Over Liverpool Board
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-10-13T14:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/liverpool-legal-decision-on-soccer-club-s-future-will-bring-more-lawsuits.html
A group led by the owners of the
Boston Red Sox moved closer to a 300 million-pound ($475
million) buyout of Liverpool soccer club after a judge blocked
an attempt to stop the sale.  Liverpool’s lender Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc argued
that the current owners couldn’t fire board members and appoint
replacements.  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett , who have two days to
pay back RBS a 237 million-pound loan, were trying to stop the
sale to  Tom Werner  and John W. Henry’s New England Sports
Ventures LLC. The new purchase agreement pledges to repay 200
million pounds of the debt on completion of the takeover.  Hicks and Gillett “do not have the absolute right to veto
a sale,” Justice  Christopher Floyd  said in his judgment at
London’s High Court today. “If I were to grant an injunction,
the potential damage to the club and RBS would be substantial.”  Hicks and Gillett on Oct. 5 tried to fire directors  Ian Ayre  and  Christian Purslow  hours before a sale agreement was
reached. Floyd ruled today that the board must be reconstituted,
and Chairman  Martin Broughton  has called a meeting for 8 p.m.
London time. During that meeting, which Hicks and Gillett have
been told about, the deal with the Red Sox owners is likely to
be confirmed.  “NESV has a binding agreement in place with the board of
Liverpool Football Club and we are looking forward to concluding
the deal,” the baseball team owner said in a statement. “We
are ready to move quickly and help create the stability and
certainty which the club needs at this time. It is time to
return the focus to the club itself and performances on the
pitch.”  Next Step  Hicks and Gillett failed to block the sale in a separate
lawsuit, which alleged the deal was invalid because they were
“kept in the dark” during negotiations.  “We’re obviously disappointed by the judgment,” their
lawyer Keith Oliver told reporters outside the court, where
large numbers of Liverpool supporters celebrated the verdict.
“Mr. Hicks and Mr. Gillett will consider their next step.”  The businessmen have faced a supporter backlash for the
majority of their tenure, which started in February 2007 after a
219 million-pound leveraged buyout. Costs associated with the
takeover have ballooned to 280 million pounds.  Hicks and Gillett were granted a six-month extension to
repay by lenders  RBS  and Wells Fargo & Co. in April, with the
agreement that the club be put up for sale and Broughton
appointed.  Rights as Shareholders  The terms of the refinancing prevented the owners from
making any changes to the board or damaging the prospects of a
sale, RBS attorney Richard Snowden said in court. The Americans
also waived their rights as shareholders to have the casting
vote on any deal.  In a witness statement, Hicks acknowledged the breach of
contract, but claimed it was done to prevent the club being sold
too cheaply. The current owners would lose about 140 million
pounds at the price now under agreement with Henry’s group,
Broughton has said.  Another investor, Singapore businessman Peter Lim,
yesterday increased his offer to 320 million pounds. It’s
unlikely to be considered because of the existing agreement with
the Boston group.  “I think you’ll find we considered all bids very
appropriately,” Broughton told reporters today. “We said right
at the outset we’d find the right owners for  Liverpool  and
that’s what we set ourselves as a target. I think we’ve done
that.”  Reconsider Offers  Lim said in a statement issued after the judgment that the
board must reconsider all the offers it has received.  “I’m asking the board to run a full and fair process that
enables all of the offers to be considered on their merits
before the future of the club is decided,” Lim said.  Liverpool faces a nine-point penalty if RBS puts the club
into bankruptcy protection by calling in its debt. That would
drop the team into last place in the Premier League. Relegation
to the second-tier Championship can cost millions in revenue.
Thousands of supporters have marched in protest against the
current owners before and after recent matches.  “The last three years have definitely been the worst in
the history of the football club,” said Andrew Blakeman, a 27-
year-old supporter, after traveling 200 miles (320 kilometers)
from Liverpool to attend the hearing. “They’re history, now we
can move on.”  The case is: The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v. Thomas O.
Hicks, George N. Gillett, Kop Football (Cayman) Ltd., Kop
Football (Holdings) Ltd., Kop Football Ltd.; HC10C03206; High
Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 James Lumley  in London at   jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 