-- Japan Bonds Fall as Unexpected Gain in Machine Orders Curbs Safety Demand
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-10-13T07:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/japan-s-government-bonds-may-decline-on-improving-outlook-for-europe-u-s-.html
Japanese  bonds  fell for the first
time in three days after an unexpected increase in machine
orders eased concern the nation’s economy will worsen.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  rose from near a seven-year low
after European Central Bank Governing Council member  Axel Weber 
said Europe is on a “stable” recovery path. The Federal
Reserve said in minutes of the Sept. 21 session that the U.S.
recovery will accelerate next year. Bonds also fell before a 600
billion yen ($7.32 billion) auction of 30-year bonds tomorrow.  “Investors are alarmed by the recent rapid drop in yields
and are more responsive to a selling catalyst,” said  Akitsugu Bandou , a senior economist in Tokyo at Okasan Securities Co.
“The machinery-order report tempered the scenario of a
worsening economy that people in the bond market had embraced.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond rose 2.5 basis
points to 0.875 percent as of 3:30 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
0.8 percent security due September 2020 fell 0.227 yen to 99.315.  The yield sank to 0.82 percent on Oct. 6, a level not seen
since July 1, 2003. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery dropped 0.15 to
143.91 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Japan’s  machinery orders , an indicator of business
investment in three to six months, jumped 10.1 percent in August
from the previous month, a government report showed today. That
compares with the 3.9 percent decline estimated by economists.  Auction Tomorrow  The European economy “is on a stable path toward
recovery,” Weber said, according to the text of a speech
delivered in New York yesterday. “I am confident that the
danger of sliding back into recession is negligible.”  Fed policy makers “judged the economic recovery to be
continuing and generally expected growth to pick up gradually
next year,” the central bank minutes said. The Fed, which will
hold a meeting next month, said on Sept. 21 that it’s prepared
to provide “additional accommodation” if needed.  The Bank of Japan may further utilize the 5 trillion-yen
fund it unveiled on Oct. 5 if it becomes necessary, Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa said in parliament in Tokyo today. The fund is
for purchases of government and corporate debt, exchange-traded
funds and real-estate investment trusts.  As central banks keep expanding balance sheets, “I won’t
be surprised if the market starts taking into account inflation
expectations”  Kenji Sakaguchi , chief investment officer of
Prudential Investment Management Japan Co., said in an interview.
Japan’s 10-year yields may trade between 0.8 percent and 1.2
percent through year-end, he said.  Japan’s prior sale of 30-year debt on Sept. 8 drew bids
valued at 4.15 times the amount on offer, compared with a so-
called  bid -to-cover ratio of 4.06 in July. Primary dealers,
which are required to bid at government debt sales, often reduce
holdings of bonds in case prices decline before they can pass on
the new securities to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  