-- Asian Stocks Advance as Japan Machinery Orders, Intel Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   K o t a r o   T s u n e t o m i
-- 2010-10-13T02:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/japanese-futures-australian-stocks-increase-as-fed-signals-further-easing.html
Asian  stocks  rose, sending the
regional benchmark to its biggest gain in five days, as Japanese
machinery orders rose more than expected and Intel Corp.
predicted stronger than estimated sales, boosting chipmakers.
Shares also advanced as the U.S. signaled it will act to shore
up the global recovery.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. , the world’s second-largest maker
of computer memory chips, increased 2.7 percent in Seoul.  Fanuc
Ltd. , Japan’s No.1 maker of industrial robots, gained 2.3
percent. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest automaker that
counts North America as its largest market, rose 0.9 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.7 percent 129.60 as of
11:11 a.m. in Tokyo, with about five stocks advancing for each
that fell. The gauge has risen 2.6 percent this month on
expectation that central banks around the world will increase
measures to boost economic growth.  “The economy is on course for recovery in the medium-and
long-term, helped by global monetary easing,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities
Inc. “As there’s an excess of money, declines in stocks will be
limited.”  The  S&P/ASX 200 Index  gained 0.5 percent in Sydney after
Australian consumer confidence rebounded in October, according
to a Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute survey today.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 0.9 percent and
the broader Topix index increased 0.7 percent. The  Kospi  Index
rose 0.2 percent in Seoul.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed in New York. Yesterday the gauge rose 0.4 percent to
1,169.77 after minutes of the Federal Reserve’s meeting last
month showed the central bank was prepared to buy more
government debt to stabilize the recovery.  Easing ‘Before Long’  Fed policy makers last month were prepared to ease monetary
policy “before long” and focused on purchases of Treasury
securities and boosting inflation expectations as ways to add
stimulus., minutes of the Sept. 21 meeting showed.  Hynix increased 2.7 percent to 23,200 won in Seoul.
Advantest Corp., the world’s biggest maker of memory-chip
testers, climbed 0.2 percent to 1,678 yen in Tokyo. Elpida
Memory Inc., a maker of dynamic random access memory products,
added 0.6 percent to 891 yen.  Intel’s revenue for the fourth quarter period will be $11.4
billion, plus or minus $400 million, Santa Clara, California-
based chipmaker said yesterday in a statement. That compares
with an  average  projection of $11.3 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fanuc Ltd. , Japan’s No.1 maker of industrial robots, gained
2.3 percent to 11,010 yen as Japan’s machinery orders increased
more than economists expected in August. Komatsu Ltd., a maker
of heavy machinery, climbed 2.2 percent to 1,935 yen.  Japanese  machinery orders  rose 10.1 percent in August from
July, when they increased 8.8 percent, the Cabinet Office said
today in Tokyo. The median forecast of 28 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News was for a 3.9 percent decline. The data is an
indicator of business investment in three to six months.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net 
 Kotaro Tsunetomi  at 
 ktsunetomi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 