-- Jet-Leasing `Godfather' Udvar-Hazy Clashes With Airbus on A320
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-10-12T14:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/jet-leasing-godfather-udvar-hazy-clashes-with-airbus-on-a320.html
Steven Udvar-Hazy , the self-
described “Godfather” of the aircraft leasing industry, said
upgraded versions of Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. jets would offer
only limited benefits and create higher costs for airlines.  The switch, referred to as re-engineing in the aviation
industry, would potentially drive up costs for airlines because
of a lack of commonality with their existing single-aisle
fleets, Udvar-Hazy said at the  ISTAT  European conference in
Munich. The new planes would also be heavier and more expensive.  “When I look at all issues and all complexities, it’s hard
to see a meaningful benefit to the industry other than in terms
of the environment and noise emissions,” Udvar-Hazy said today.
“There I see some PR benefit to the outside world, but in terms
of bottom-line benefit to owners of the aircraft, to operators
of aircraft, it’s a very slim margin.”  Airbus wants to decide by the end of the year if it should
proceed with a revamp of the single-aisle fleet, as Sales Chief
 John Leahy  tries to extend the lifespan of his bestselling model
before the company embarks on the development of an all-new jet.
New engines would cost no more than 1.5 billion euros ($2.07
billion), a fraction of the $10 billion to create a new model.  Responding to Udvar-Hazy’s comments, Leahy said that
“almost all airlines are requesting” the new engine option.  ‘No Change’  “If we followed the advice of some leasing companies, i.e.
‘No Change’, we would still be flying 727s and consuming twice
as much fuel,” Leahy said in an e-mailed statement. “We, as an
industry, have an obligation to be as fuel efficient and
environmentally friendly as possible.”  Airbus, based in Toulouse, southern France, says the new
engines offer 15 percent in fuel efficiency, translating into
added value per plane of $7 million to $9 million. Udvar-Hazy
said the actual benefit to carriers is much lower,  partly
because Airbus and engine-makers will seek to recoup some of
their investments,.  Leahy has said the company is unlikely to bring out an all-
new plane before the middle of the next decade in order to reap
the benefits of advanced materials and engines. Boeing Co. Chief
Financial Officer  James Bell  told investors at a conference in
August that customers “haven’t shown a real interest” in a re-
engined aircraft.  ‘Mixed Result’  “We’ve gotten a mixed result,”  Randy Tinseth , marketing
chief for Boeing’s commercial plane business, said at the Munich
conference. “Some say, ‘do whatever you can today to improve
performance of the plane.’ Others have said the business case
just doesn’t close. Now we’re taking our time to be sure we do
the right thing.”  The A320 family of aircraft offers the choice of two
engines. One, the CFM56, is built by CFM International, a joint
venture between  General Electric Co.  and  Safran SA  of France,
and is also the only model available on the Boeing 737. The
other, the V2500, is manufactured by International Aero Engines,
a group that includes Pratt & Whitney and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc .  New engines would involve a more fuel-efficient version of
the CFM56 model with a new hot section, or core, and a new model
from Pratt & Whitney, whose geared turbofan allows the outer fan
to turn at different speeds, using less fuel.  No Replacements  Air France KLM Group Chief Executive Officer Pierre Henri
Gourgeon said in an interview last week that benefits from a re-
engined A320 wouldn’t suffice for the airline to order new
planes to replace most of its existing A320 series planes.  Nico Buchholz , the fleet manager of  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , said the
German carrier’s preference is for a new program.  “But if I can’t get that, I’ll take the second best
option,” Buchholz said at the aviation conference.  Udvar-Hazy returned to the aircraft leasing industry this
year with a new company, called Air Lease Corp., and he was the
biggest buyer at this year’s Farnborough Air Show, ordering 136
planes valued at more than $10 billion. Udvar-Hazy founded
International Lease Finance Corp. three decades ago and built it
into the industry leader before leaving earlier this year.  The executive, who personally flew his  Gulfstream V  jet to
the Munich conference, predicted that by 2020, almost 45 percent
of all planes will be on operating leases, up from 34 percent
this year, increasing the weight of the jet-leasing industry and
Udvar-Hazy’s opinions alike.  “My main job is to assure manufactures don’t become like
carmakers where they come out with a new product every three to
four years,” Hazy said. “It’s important to assure a great
sense of stability, since we serve an unstable set of clients,
the airlines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  