-- Jets Beat Vikings, Favre 29-20 With Late Interception, Improve to 4-1
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-12T05:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/jets-beat-vikings-favre-29-20-with-late-interception-wins-improve-to-4-1.html
The New York Jets extended
their winning streak to four games with a 29-20 win against
the Minnesota Vikings, a victory sealed when  Brett Favre 
threw an interception that was returned for a touchdown.  Favre threw three second-half touchdown passes to
rally the Vikings, who trailed 12-0 midway through the
third quarter last night at New Meadowlands Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey.  The Vikings were down 22-20 when Favre got the ball
back with 1:48 left. On third down, Jets cornerback  Dwight Lowery  stepped in front of Favre’s short pass intended for
Visanthe Shiancoe and returned it 26 yards for the
clinching score.  “With Brett on the field, they always have a
chance,” Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez  said. “As a
competitor you want to be on the field, but I was cheering
our defense on. We knew they’d make a play and they sure
did.”  The Jets improved to 4-1 on a record-setting night for
Favre, who threw his 500th career touchdown pass during the
third quarter -- a 37-yarder to  Randy Moss . Favre, who was
held to 31 passing yards in the first 30 minutes, also
threw two second-half touchdown passes to  Percy Harvin .  Favre eclipsed 70,000 career passing yards and set a
National Football League record with his 162nd fumble, a
turnover that led to one of five field goals by the Jets’
 Nick Folk . Favre had three turnovers as the Vikings fell to
1-3.  ‘Have to Do Better’  “I gave it my all and it wasn’t good enough,” Favre,
who is bothered by tendinitis in his throwing arm, said
during a news conference. “I have to do better. I missed
some throws there at the end.”  Moss, acquired from the New England Patriots last
week, had four catches for 81 yards in his return to the
Vikings. He spent his first seven NFL seasons in Minnesota.  The Jets didn’t have any turnovers in rainy conditions
at the Meadowlands, where the start of the game was delayed
about 45 minutes because of a storm that brought lightning
and heavy rain. It’s the fourth straight game without a
turnover for the Jets, whose 4-1 record is tied for the
best in the NFL.  “We took care of the ball and won it,” Sanchez said.  The Jets’ lone touchdown came on a 23-yard run by
Shonn Green with 4:30 remaining that put the home team up
22-13.  Favre pulled the Vikings within two points just 1:21
later, hooking up with Harvin for an 11-yard touchdown
pass. It was the third touchdown in four possessions for
Minnesota, which had been held to 51 yards in the first
half. On the next drive, Favre misfired on a pass to a
wide-open Harvin and then was intercepted by Lowery.  “This was a typical Jet win -- resilient and a team
effort all the way against an excellent football team,”
Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said during a news conference. “I’m
proud of the way our guys competed to the end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  