-- JPMorgan Tops Institutional Investor Analyst Rankings
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-12T23:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/jpmorgan-takes-top-spot-in-institutional-investor-analyst-poll.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s stock
research group  won  the top slot in Institutional Investor
magazine’s 39th annual ranking for the first time, breaking
 Barclays Plc ’s two-year winning streak.  JPMorgan, based in New York, had 46 analysts on the list,
two more than last year, the magazine said. Institutional
Investor said the rankings were dominated this year by analysts
who best understood global economic developments such as U.S.
health-care and financial reform, Europe’s government debt
crisis and the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. (Click here for the
list of “2010 All-America Research Team First-Teamers.”)  “The market was driven by macro events, and analysts needed
to understand and interpret those events to provide perspective
on which sectors and stocks would outperform,”  Thomas Schmidt ,
the New York-based head of Americas equity research at JPMorgan,
told Institutional Investor. JPMorgan also won first place in
the magazine’s ranking in September of fixed-income analysts.  Barclays of London was voted second, with 43 analysts on
the list compared with 46 last year. It won in 2008 and 2009,
and it owns the U.S. operations of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., which was ranked highest during the five prior years.  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch Global Research held
its third-place position, while  Credit Suisse Group AG  came in
fourth and  UBS AG  took fifth. Bank of America is based in
Charlotte, North Carolina, while Credit Suisse and UBS have
their headquarters in Zurich.  Biggest Increase  Morgan Stanley had the biggest climb in the top 10, rising
from ninth place to seventh after increasing the number of
analysts on the list by eight to 24. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
slipped to tenth from eighth place with 10 analysts. Both
companies are based in New York.  The magazine surveyed 3,500 investors at 970 companies with
assets of $10.2 trillion to produce the stock-analyst ranking.  Winners included  Brad Hintz , a New York-based brokers and
asset-managers analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., and
 Francois Trahan , a portfolio strategist who quit ISI Group to
help form Wolfe Trahan & Co. For the largest banks, Deutsche
Bank AG’s  Matthew O’Connor  was No. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 