-- JSW Steel Said to Consider Spin Off of Overseas Coal Mine, Iron Ore Assets
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-10-13T02:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/jsw-steel-said-to-consider-spin-off-of-overseas-coal-mine-iron-ore-assets.html
JSW Steel Ltd. , India’s third-
largest producer, is considering putting its overseas coal and
iron ore assets into a unit for a share sale to fund expansion,
two people familiar with the plans said.  The unit would control coal and iron ore mines in the U.S.
and  Chile , as well as an exploration business in Mozambique,
said the people who declined to be identified as the plans
aren’t yet public. JSW may list the unit in an overseas exchange,
they said, without giving a timeframe.  JSW Steel,  Tata Steel Ltd.  and  Steel Authority of India
Ltd. , the nation’s largest producers, are looking to buy mines
in Australia, the U.S. and Africa, to feed furnaces as demand
increases. A raw material spinoff by an Indian company would be
unusual and its success would depend on the asset location,
Patersons Securities Ltd. analyst  Andrew Harrington  said.  “Except for Mozambique, it doesn’t sound as though these
would be the most interesting areas for coal development,”
Harrington said today by phone in Sydney. “The trend out of
India has been to acquire things overseas rather than sell them
once they’ve been acquired.”  Mumbai-based JSW Steel spokesman Mithun Roy didn’t reply to
e-mailed questions from Bloomberg News.  Shares in JSW Steel have climbed 31 percent this year to
close yesterday at 1,326.90 rupees, making them the  third-best
performer  on the 35-company Bloomberg Asia Pacific Iron and
Steel Index behind South Korea’s Hyundai Steel Co. and
Australia’s Fortescue Metals Group Ltd.  The Indian steel market has grown more than 55 percent
since 2005, fueled by auto sales and government construction,
according to steel ministry data.  JSW Steel bought seven coking coal mines in May in the U.S.
with reserves of about 123 million metric tons. In Chile, the
company’s Bellavista iron ore mines, acquired in 2008, are
likely to start production by December, Group Chief Financial
Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said last month.  The company’s Mozambique unit is exploring for coal and
iron ore resources, according to JSW’s latest annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  