-- Karo Shareholders Offer to Buy Stock to Fund Experimental Cholesterol Drug
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2010-10-12T15:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/karo-shareholders-offer-to-buy-stock-to-fund-experimental-cholesterol-drug.html
Shareholders in Karo Bio AB offered
to guarantee as much as 150 million kronor ($22.4 million) in
new stock as the Swedish drugmaker seeks funding to help pay for
a clinical trial of its experimental cholesterol pill.  Karl Lars Magnusson, a Stockholm-based investor, said he
represents a group that owns some 18 percent of Karo shares. The
group would subscribe to its portion and underwrite for an
additional amount if Huddinge, Sweden-based Karo decides to
issue more shares, Magnusson said today by phone.  Karo Bio is assembling financing to fund the late-stage
trial of eprotirome,  Bo Hakansson , chairman of Karo’s board,
said today by phone. Hakansson, who declined to comment on
Magnusson’s offer, said the company remains on schedule to begin
the trial next year. Karo’s shares have lost 19 percent since
the company on July 7 scaled back plans for the drug.  Magnusson said his group’s offer is conditional upon Karo
getting approval from the European Medicines Agency for further
testing of eprotirome. The group, which also wants Karo to find
an Asian partner and establish an equity financing facility
agreement, would buy shares at a 10 percent discount to the
market with a minimum price of 5.50 kronor, he said.  Karo  gained  0.25 krona, or 5 percent, to 5.25 kronor in
Stockholm trading, valuing the company at 813 million kronor.  Premium  “Our subscription price may be at a premium at this
moment, but as our offer is conditional upon EMEA approval of
the clinical trial, I’m very confident to say that 5.50 kronor
would be a discounted price to what the share will be selling at
once that approval is given,” Magnusson said.  Karo Bio said in August it needed to find a partner or
issue shares to fund the trial that will determine if eprotirome
works in patients diagnosed with a genetic disorder that causes
exceptionally high cholesterol buildup.  “The drug itself has a $1 billion sales potential in
Europe,” Magnusson said. Hakansson, Karo’s chairman, confirmed
Magnusson’s share holdings.  The drugmaker, which listed on the Stockholm exchange in
1998, has held  rights offers  at least six times in the past
decade, according to Bloomberg and company data. The company’s
current assets declined 20 percent to 158 million kronor at the
end of June.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  