-- Kenya Airways Workers Vote on Strike Amid Unions' Split, Court Injunction
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-10-12T07:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/kenya-airways-employees-to-vote-on-indefinite-strike-today-as-union-splits.html
Employees of  Kenya Airways Ltd.  will
decide today whether to go ahead with an indefinite strike, a
senior union official said, after the country’s industrial court
ruled the work stoppage would be illegal.  About 600 workers will meet at 2 p.m. in the capital,
Nairobi, to discuss whether to push ahead with the strike from
midnight, said Bonne Nicholas Barasa, general-secretary of the
Aviation and Allied Workers Union.  Union officials are split on whether workers will support
the action at sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest airline. While
Barasa expects a vote in favor of a strike, Noah Sitienei, who
is the union’s branch secretary for airlines, denied the 3,000
workers he represents want to stop work.  “Most of the workers aren’t for a strike and I don’t think
that action will go ahead,” Sitienei said today by phone from
Nairobi.  The Nairobi-based Industrial Court yesterday issued an
injunction to block the planned strike at the request of Kenya
Airways, the  Daily Nation  newspaper reported today.  “I believe the strike is still on because we haven’t even
received a hard copy of the court ruling and our demands still
aren’t met,” Barasa said by phone from Nairobi. The meeting
will lead to a “conclusive decision” on industrial action.  Kenya Airways said on Oct. 1 that it had signed a deal in
April to spend 129 million shillings ($1.6 million) giving
employees a pay increase backdated to October 2009. Barasa said
on Oct. 4 that the union wants any deal to be backdated to July
2008.  Chris Karanja, a spokesman for the airline, declined to
immediately comment, saying that he is preparing a statement.  On Aug. 16, 2009, the aviation-industry union and the
company agreed a 20 percent wage increase, ending a two-day
strike that forced the carrier to cancel and delay flights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 