-- South Korean Fund, KKR Team Up to Buy Chevron Pipeline Stake
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-10-12T05:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/korea-pension-fund-buys-u-s-oil-pipeline-stake-from-chevron.html
National Pension Service , South
Korea’s biggest state fund, has bought  Chevron Corp. ’s stake in
Colonial Pipeline Co. in partnership with Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. to diversify its investment portfolio.  The South Korean fund has purchased a 23.44 percent stake
in the operator of the largest pipeline linking U.S. Gulf Coast
refiners and East Coast markets, National Pension said in an e-
mailed statement today, without disclosing the transaction value.  “The investment is part of our efforts to diversify
globally to ensure stable long-term returns, and it would be an
important opportunity to expand investments in energy-related
assets,” according to the statement.  National Pension was picked as a preferred bidder to
acquire the stake for about 1 trillion won ($890 million), the
Korea Economic Daily said on Aug. 23, citing an unidentified
official at the fund. Kim Ha Young, a spokesman at National
Pension, declined today to comment on the value.  The fund supplied most of the capital for the purchase,
said two people familiar with the deal, who asked not to be
identified because the terms are confidential. KKR will manage
the asset on behalf of the South Korean fund, the people said.  Peter Mckillop , a KKR spokesman based in New York, declined
to comment on the purchase and management of the stake. National
Pension is unable to comment further on the deal, the fund said
in a separate e-mail.  “Investment in energy-related infrastructure seems
sensible because it’s less risky compared with direct investment
in natural resources where there’s fiercer competition amid the
global race for resources,” said Kim Hwa Nyeon, a Seoul-based
research fellow at Samsung Economic Research Institute covering
oil and other raw materials.  Diversifying Portfolio  The state fund, which had 303 trillion won ($270 billion)
in assets as of August, is investing in overseas stocks and real
estate from Australia to the U.K. to diversify from domestic
fixed-income holdings. National Pension plans to boost its
overseas investments to at least 20 percent of assets by 2015
from about 12 percent now.  National Pension’s overseas investments include a shopping
mall near Paris, Berlin’s Sony Center, London’s Gatwick Airport,
a office building in Sydney, and  HSBC Holdings Plc ’s London
headquarters.  The fund is overseen by the  Ministry of Health & Welfare 
and covers private-sector employees and the self-employed. It
forecasts increasing assets to 488 trillion won by 2015.  Oil Pipeline  Colonial Pipeline’s 5,519-mile (8,880-kilometer) system
moves gasoline and other fuels from refineries along the Gulf to
markets including Washington and New York City. Other Colonial
Pipeline shareholders include subsidiaries of  ConocoPhillips ,
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Koch Industries Inc. and Industry Funds
Management Pty Ltd.  Chevron Chief Executive Officer John Watson has been
curtailing the company’s involvement in lower-profit businesses
such as crude refining and fuel-shipping to focus on discovering
and pumping oil and gas. Chevron announced plans in March to
quit refining in Europe and to cut thousands of jobs.  South Korean funds are investing in overseas energy assets
as Asia’s fourth-largest crude importer competes for natural
resources with China and India.  Korea Investment Corp. , a $35
billion fund, agreed in June to invest $200 million in
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. , the third-largest U.S. gas producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 