-- Najib May Jumpstart Investment With Incentives in Malaysia's 2011 Budget
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-13T10:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/najib-may-jumpstart-investment-with-incentives-in-malaysia-s-2011-budget.html
Malaysian Prime Minister  Najib Razak 
may open up more services industries to foreign companies,
moving to end a slump in investment that’s threatening the
country’s goal of becoming a developed nation in the next decade.  The prime minister, who will unveil the country’s 2011
budget this week, is counting on private investment to drive
projects from railways to a Kuala Lumpur shopping district as he
seeks to contain state spending. The  budget deficit  may narrow
to 4.8 percent of gross domestic product next year, according to
the median forecast of six economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
That compares with the median estimate for a 2010 shortfall of
5.5 percent of GDP.  Najib aims to rejuvenate an economy where growth fell to an
average 4.7 percent a year in the past decade from 7.2 percent
in the 1990s, when then-Prime Minister  Mahathir Mohamad  wooed
overseas manufacturers, built highways and the world’s tallest
twin towers. Malaysia has eased barriers to foreign investment
since early last year, when the global recession hurt exports of
 Unisem (M) Bhd . semiconductors and IOI Corp. palm oil.  “A key ingredient to the growth and investment engine in
Malaysia under the plan is greater participation from the
private sector,” said  Ho Woei Chen , an economist at United
Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “We expect the budget to
announce a slew of tax incentives or even additional loan
schemes to encourage private investments towards the goals.”  Projects Planned  The government said last month it has identified private
sector-led projects worth $444 billion that can spur investment,
even as a cooling global rebound threatens to discourage
companies from spending.  Foreign direct investment into Southeast Asia’s third-
largest economy tumbled 81 percent to $1.4 billion in 2009 from
$7.3 billion the previous year, according to the UN’s World
 Investment  Report. Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand all fared
better.  Najib, 57, is likely to “liberalize more service sub-
sectors” in the budget, including business services,
telecommunications and health care, CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.
economists led by  Lee Heng Guie  said in a report.  The prime minister will unveil the 2011 budget and growth
forecast, along with a revised 2010 GDP estimate in parliament
on Oct. 15.  Reforms, Growth  “The overall key focus for the government is to continue
to bolster the sustainability of the ongoing economic recovery,
consistent with achieving the growth objectives set forth in its
longer-term economic plans,” said Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
economists  Enoch Fung  and  Jerry Peng . “There will continue to
be a key emphasis on fiscal consolidation and reforms.”  Malaysia will target  annual growth  of 5 percent to 6
percent between 2011 and 2020 to meet its goal of becoming a
high-income nation, Najib has said. The prime minister is trying
to triple gross national income to 1.7 trillion ringgit in 2020
from 600 billion ringgit in 2009 and create 3.3 million jobs. To
do that, he says the country needs 2.2 trillion ringgit of funds,
with 92 percent coming from private investment.  Malaysia will still need government spending to support the
economy, said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. in Singapore.  “We expect Malaysia to continue seeing its fiscal
expenditure to GDP ratio staying among the highest in the region,
at least in the next couple of years, particularly since the
government is likely to frontload most of its infrastructure
expenditure allocated” under a five-year development plan,
Cahyadi said.  Stocks Climb  The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has risen 17.6
percent this year, while the ringgit is the second-best
performer in Asia excluding Japan with a 10.7 percent gain. The
currency traded at 3.0930 per dollar today.  Malaysian construction companies such as Gamuda Bhd.,  IJM
Corp . and Sunway Holdings Bhd. may benefit from the government’s
plans to improve infrastructure, according to Maybank Investment
Bank Bhd.  Najib has tried to cut operational expenses more than
development spending. The government trimmed subsidies for sugar,
gasoline, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas in July to save
more than 750 million ringgit in government expenditure.
Malaysia spends about 73 billion ringgit a year on subsidies on
goods from fuel to flour, Najib said in April.  The country has “a lot more room” to reform its subsidy
programs to better target the needy, according to Goldman Sachs.  True Test  “The true test will lie in the progress of these reforms
when oil prices are expected to rise again in the coming year,”
Hong Kong-based economists Fung and Peng said. “Reforming the
subsidy program will likely face immense political pressure,
which will likely imply a more gradualist approach by the
government on this front.”  The government is likely to maintain corporate and personal
income tax rates, economists including United Overseas’ Ho said.  Still, it should outline a revised timeline for the
introduction of a goods and services tax, said  Suhaimi Ilias , an
economist at Maybank Investment Bank. Officials had initially
planned to get parliamentary approval for the levy in March.  The government said today it will further postpone the
implementation of the goods and services tax to allow
authorities more time to “engage inclusively” with all segments
of society for feedback. It didn’t set a new target date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  