-- National Bank of Kuwait Nine-Month Net Advances 11% on Expansion Strategy
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-10-12T13:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/national-bank-of-kuwait-says-nine-month-profit-jumps-11-to-790-million.html
National Bank of Kuwait SAK , the
emirate’s biggest lender, posted an 11.4 percent gain in profit
in the first nine months of the year as it diversified income
through its expansion strategy.  Net income increased to 225 million dinars ($795 million)
from 202 million dinars in the same period last year, NBK said
in an e-mailed statement today. The bank’s third-quarter profit
rose 5.7 percent to 79.8 million dinars, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on nine-month data provided by the company.
Total assets reached 12.5 billion dinars in the nine-month
period, NBK said.  “With our income sources becoming increasingly
diversified, regional and international operations contributed
more than 20 percent of the group’s net profits so far this
year,” Chief Executive Officer  Ibrahim Dabdoub  said in the
statement. “Whilst Egypt and Qatar remain our key markets and
are performing very well, we expect further growth on the
regional front and are pushing ahead with our plans to launch
operations in Syria.”  The bank also plans to strengthen its position in Turkey,
Dabdoub said.  National Bank last week opened a subscription period for a
capital increase which closes Oct. 21. Bank shareholders in
March approved raising the bank’s capital by 10 percent to 359.8
million dinars.  National Bank’s acquisition of a strategic stake in Islamic
lender  Boubyan Bank  should enhance its market share, Dabdoub
said. Shareholders’ equity reached 2 billion dinars at the end
of September, according to the statement.  The bank’s  shares  were unchanged at 1,420 fils at the close
of trading in Kuwait today. The stock has gained 48.5 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  