-- News Corp. Slows BSkyB Bid to Avoid U.K. Legal Challenge
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-10-13T15:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/news-corp-delaying-bskyb-acquisition-to-avoid-u-k-challenge-lawyers-say.html
News Corp. ’s delay in notifying the
European Union about a planned takeover of  British Sky
Broadcasting Plc , the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator, suggests
it’s seeking to avoid a U.K. government challenge, lawyers say.  News Corp., which made the offer for the 61 percent stake
in BSkyB it didn’t already own four months ago, is trying to
ward off a potential challenge from U.K. Business Secretary
 Vince Cable  over concerns the New York-based company may harm
the public interest by expanding its control of U.K. media
outlets, said  Gustaf Duhs , an antitrust lawyer at Stevens &
Bolton LLP.  News Corp. made its initial 7.8 billion-pound ($12.45
billion) offer for BSkyB conditional on winning regulatory
approval. The delay has allowed opposition to mount, with U.K.
newspapers, the British Broadcasting Corp. and BT Group Plc this
week sending a joint letter asking Cable to block the merger.  “An intervention by Cable could lead to the deal being
blocked in the U.K., even if the EU approves it,” said Duhs,
who was an adviser at the  Office of Fair Trading  for five years
and isn’t involved in the case. “They may still be seeking to
address his concerns before notifying Brussels.”  Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  said on Aug. 4 that
News Corp. would notify the EU “very shortly.” The company
estimated in June when it announced the offer that the
regulatory review could take at least six months.  Sunday Times, Sun  Miranda Higham , a spokeswoman for the company in London,
declined to comment on the notification. Spokespeople for Cable,
EU and U.K. antitrust regulators also declined to comment.  News Corp., owner of the Twentieth Century Fox film studio
and  The Wall Street Journal , also owns the Times and Sunday
Times newspapers in the U.K. and the country’s biggest tabloid,
The Sun.  In the joint letter, the director-general of the BBC and
the owners of newspapers including the Daily Telegraph and the
Guardian demanded that Cable challenge the deal. The companies
wrote that the takeover would expand News Corp.’s control of
U.K. media outlets. Officials from phone operator BT Group and
Channel Four Television Corp. also signed the letter.  “Given the scale of the potential ownership in U.K.
media, there’s a strong case for looking at it systemically and
deciding whether or not anything needs to be done,” BBC
Director-General  Mark Thompson  said in an interview on the
“ Charlie Rose ” program broadcast on Bloomberg Television.  Media Plurality  Cable, a member of the Liberal-Democrat party led by Deputy
Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , has authority to intervene in deals
over concerns about media plurality, while the OFT can try to
wrest control of the approval process from Brussels based on the
effects on U.K. competition.  The media objection may put the coalition government of
Prime Minister  David Cameron  in a quandary. Murdoch’s newspaper
The Sun backed Cameron’s Conservative Party in Britain’s May
general election.  “That’s going to be a very political decision,” said  Mike Pullen , a competition lawyer with DLA Piper LLP in London.
“Being a Liberal, he’ll be very keen to protect media
plurality. He’s in a bit of a dilemma.”  The delay in formally notifying the EU gives News Corp.
time to decide what steps it can take to win approval during the
first phase of the process and avoid U.K. probes, said Pullen.  One option would be to allow competitors to show News Corp.
TV channels or other content, said Pullen, who isn’t working on
the deal. The company’s potential offer to regulators “is the
big elephant in the room,” he said.  1990 Merger  Formed in 1990 with the merger of Murdoch’s Sky Television
and British Satellite Broadcasting, BSkyB has about 9.77 million
subscribers. Buying exclusive live broadcasting rights in 1992
to popular events such as England Premier League soccer matches
helped it win customers.  The process may threaten to increase the cost of the
takeover for News Corp. as the pound gains against the dollar.
The company’s 7.8 billion-pound bid was worth $11.5 billion when
it was announced on June 15. It was worth $12.32 billion as of
yesterday.  The final price of the deal, News Corp.’s biggest
acquisition, won’t be negotiated until after the regulatory
process is finished. BSkyB shares were unchanged at 706 pence in
London trading today.  ‘Close Investigation’  Simon Holmes , a competition lawyer at SJ Berwin in London,
said an intervention by Cable “would be right and proper,” and
that a full probe would last from nine to 12 months.  “If you’ve got the leading provider of TV subscription
services and the largest newspaper company coming together, that
seems to me to merit close investigation,” Holmes said in an
interview.  News Corp. can try to sidestep a challenge, Holmes said, by
agreeing to divide news functions at its TV and newspaper
properties, to avoid a “single common source” for information.  BSkyB already faces regulatory challenges in Britain. The
company is appealing a decision by media watchdog Ofcom forcing
it to charge competitors lower prices for soccer matches. Ofcom
also started an investigation of BSkyB’s pay-TV movie deals with
Hollywood content providers, including Twentieth Century Fox.  Jenine Hulsmann , a lawyer with Clifford Chance LLP in
London, said the delay is normal for a “complicated merger”
and the EU is using the extra time to have “intensive
dialogue” with the OFT and Ofcom.  ‘Number of Issues’  “I’m sure they’re discussing quite a number of issues, in
particular how the existing investigation into Sky’s behavior in
the U.K. might impact on their analysis,” said Hulsmann, who
represented Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile unit in its U.K.
merger with France Telecom SA’s Orange.  EU regulators must examine how the deal might affect the
media market in the EU’s 27 member countries. Once the
notification is made, Cable will have 25 days to intervene, and
the OFT will have 15 working days to request jurisdiction.  Claire Enders , the chief executive officer of Enders
Analysis Ltd., a London entertainment industry research firm,
said no delay will stop Cable from reviewing the deal.  “I can’t see any undertakings that the company could make
that would forestall an intervention by Cable,” Enders said in
an interview. “It would be much more the company’s style to go
into the process in a reasonably bullish frame of mind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 