-- Nigeria Approves $2.5 Billion Sale of Nitel to Dubai's Minerva After Delay
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-10-12T14:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/nigeria-approves-2-5-billion-sale-of-nitel-to-dubai-s-minerva-after-delay.html
Nigeria ’s government approved the
sale of the state telecommunications company to Dubai’s Minerva
Group and its partners, eight months after they bid $2.5 billion
for the company at an auction.  The group will pay an initial $750 million, followed by the
remaining $1.75 billion within 60 days, the Abuja-based Bureau
of Public Enterprises said in an e-mailed statement today. The
government will sell a bond to pay outstanding wages owed to
Nitel’s workers, the bureau said.  New Generation Telecom Ltd., consisting of  China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. , Minerva Group of Dubai and Nigeria’s GiCell
Wireless Ltd., won the bidding for 75 percent of Nigerian
Telecommunications Ltd., or Nitel, on Feb. 16. President
 Goodluck Jonathan  suspended the transaction on March 12 and told
a committee including senior ministers to conduct further due
diligence on the bidders.  The presidential panel “found out that the transaction
complied strictly with due process as outlined in the BPE’s
procedures manual and that necessary approvals were obtained,”
the statement said.  Jonathan ordered the review after China Unicom, China’s
second-biggest mobile-phone carrier, denied any involvement in
the winning group. The Chinese operator later said one of its
units was interested in “providing technical and managerial
support.”  Previous Attempt  Today’s decision “meets our expectation,” Ayo Arise,
chairman of the Nigerian Senate’s privatization committee, said
in a telephone interview from Abuja, the capital. “If they are
unable to pay, then we can look at other options.”  Usman Gumi, the chief executive officer of Abuja-based
Gicell Wireless and spokesman for the bidding group, said he
would issue a statement later today.  A previous attempt in 2006 to sell Nitel and MTel, its
mobile unit, to  Transnational Corp.  was annulled after the
Lagos-based investment company failed to comply with sale
conditions. Since then, Nitel’s 500,000 fixed lines in service
have dropped to 45,000, its workforce has declined to 2,000 from
12,000 and the company has $500 million of debt,  TeleGeography ,
a Washington-based research company, said last year.  Nitel has lost market share to rivals including MTN Nigeria
Ltd., a unit of  MTN Group Ltd. , Africa’s biggest mobile-phone
company.  Price Questioned  Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst  Danny Chu  wrote in a report in
February that the $2.5 billion offer for Nitel was “relatively
high” compared with Bharti Airtel Ltd.’s $9 billion purchase of
the African wireless assets of Zain. Nitel’s annual earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, were
estimated at about $13 million by Chu.  “There’s a whole lot of money buried in Nitel and it
shouldn’t be sold for less than $1 billion,” Arise said in
June.  Nigeria is Africa’s most populous nation with more than 140
million people. It’s the continent’s fastest-growing telecom
market with more than 81 million phone subscribers, according to
the  Nigerian Communication Commission , the industry regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 