-- Nobel Winner Liu, Quiet Literary Critic, Terrifies Beijing: George Walden
-- B y   G e o r g e   W a l d e n
-- 2010-10-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/nobel-winner-liu-quiet-literary-critic-terrifies-beijing-george-walden.html
Two steps forward, one back. That’s
the pattern with modern China, and today looks like a “one
back” moment.  First Chinese leaders pursue a beggar-my-neighbor currency
policy. Next they denounce as “obscene” the Norwegian Nobel
Committee’s award of the Peace Prize to  Liu Xiaobo , a literary
critic and former professor locked up for 11 years for saying
what he thinks.  When the world objects, they put his wife under house
arrest. For good measure, this nation of 1.3 billion souls
threatens to retaliate against the 5 million good folk of
Norway. And who provoked this loathing? An author whose  books 
include “The Fog of Metaphysics,” a review of Western
philosophies.  Whatever the qualities of the Chinese leadership,
oversensitivity to world opinion isn’t among them. The
coincidence of the Nobel controversy with the currency war will
make many people stop to ask where the new China is going. The
answer: in two directions at once.  Observing Beijing is like looking at a trick postcard that
carries two pictures, depending on the angle of vision. One
shows a reformist China opening up to the world. The second
reveals a thrusting superpower that’s hell-bent on dislodging
the U.S. from its No. 1 spot and cares nothing for democracy.  Brutal Treatment  Liu’s brutal treatment rouses natural fears for the future,
showing how far the authorities will go to crush dissent. The
case dates to 1989, when Liu was a visiting scholar at Columbia
University in New York. That April,  he flew back  to Beijing to
join the peaceful student protesters in Tiananmen Square.  For Beijing, his worst crime is this link to an uprising
that the Communists desperately want the world to forget. Yet
the image of the Chinese colossus once again bearing down on a
single individual revives the most potent image of that revolt:
The footage of  one lone protester  standing fearlessly in the
path of tanks.  Currencies apart, Chinese economic policies these last few
years have often been enlightened and intelligent. The treatment
of  Liu  is neither. A criminal, Beijing calls him, subverting the
power of the state. And why?  Because he helped draft  Charter 08 , an open letter calling
for such things as direct elections, freedom of speech and an
independent judiciary. In 2008, Liu joined some 300 other
inoffensive intellectuals, simple citizens and even Communist
Party members in signing the document.  Prairie Fire?  Upon which the gigantic Communist machine took fright. A
single spark, after all, can start a prairie fire, as  Mao Zedong 
said in his revolutionary days. Yet this makes no sense in
modern China. Like it or not, Chinese people as a whole don’t
lie awake at night fretting over the absence of full democracy.
Most go to sleep with more contentment and fuller bellies than
any generation of Chinese for 60 years.  It is Liu’s stubbornness, one senses, that riles the
Communist leadership, together perhaps with the dangerous
reasonableness of his approach. They jailed him for months after
the Tiananmen uprising was crushed and later sent him to a labor
camp for three years. Yet he still won’t kowtow.  What is there to recant, though? Liu isn’t preaching
violent revolt. On the contrary, he insists that the road to
democracy must be “gradual, peaceful, well ordered and
controlled.” Many principles articulated in Charter 08 are
enshrined in China’s own constitution, which guarantees
“freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, of association,
of procession and of demonstration,” as the  Nobel committee
wrote .  Policy Zigzags  As far as China’s relations with the West go, all is far
from lost. There have been zigzags in Chinese policy before, and
Beijing’s overreaction to the Nobel award runs against the
trend. My last visit to the country four months ago confirmed
the obvious: that China today is freer and more prosperous by
far than at any time since the 1949 Communist revolution.  That freedom in everyday life is creeping irresistibly
forward, and clumsy governmental tactics only risk stirring up
more active opposition. A few days ago, Xia Yeliang, a prominent
economics professor at Beijing University, urged people to put
photos of Liu in their car windows in silent protest, according
to Paris daily Le Figaro.  The trick for the West will be to stand firm on both its
currency and human-rights concerns without provoking one of
Beijing’s periodic spasms of nationalism. People say we mustn’t
cause the Chinese to lose face by pushing them to the point
where retreat becomes impossible. Yet the Obama administration
and other Western governments have their own reason for seeking
to save face: Elections, we call them.  ( George Walden , a former Member of Parliament, witnessed
the Cultural Revolution as a U.K. diplomat in Beijing in 1966-
69. He’s the author of “China: A Wolf in the World?” and a
critic for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 George Walden  in London at  gwashch@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley at   jpressley@bloomberg.net . 