-- Obama Drags Recovery With Raw Deal for Contracts: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2010-10-12T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/obama-drags-recovery-in-raw-deal-for-contracts-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  recently
pocket-vetoed the Interstate Recognition of Notarizations Act,
which aimed to smooth over the processing of business that
involves contracts written in several states. One sponsor of the
bill was a fellow Democrat, Senator  Patrick Leahy .  But White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  explained that the
bill might make home foreclosure too easy for lenders, with
“unintended consequences on consumer protections.”  Gibbs is right about the unintended consequences. But those
consequences aren’t the ones he means. By making foreclosure
harder for lenders, the president makes it possible that banks
will lend less next time. The Obama action is part of a modern
bipartisan trend, a lack of respect for contracts in general.  “Contract” isn’t even a word you hear much on the news
these days, having been dropped for another “con” word:
“consumer.”  But contracts, the deals between non-government parties,
are crucial to recoveries. And the cavalier attitude toward them
is a shift for the U.S. Just how much becomes clear when you
look at an era that achieved the quality of recovery the U.S. is
longing for now: the 1920s. Contracts were especially holy under
President  Warren Harding  and the president who actually inspired
the vetoed notary bill,  Calvin Coolidge .  Favored Banks  Consider the current period. The Bush administration’s
bailout of 2008 favored certain banks over others. That wasn’t
always a direct abuse of a contract. But it was always an
indirect one. Counterparties in deals with companies that were
rescued did better than counterparties in companies that were
not. Contract holders don’t like political change.  Yet “change,” whether Bush or Obama change, was deemed
mandatory because of the crisis. The Chrysler rescue that the
Obama administration’s chief adviser for the auto industry,
 Steven Rattner , oversaw favored unions over senior creditors in
a fashion that markets had not expected.  The federal intervention to prevent home foreclosure, of
which the notarization bill veto is just one example, has caused
trouble for lenders. Even the low interest rates that Chairman
 Ben Bernanke  and the Federal Reserve Board have imposed have
impinged on contracts by changing their value -- especially the
contracts called bonds.  Lower Than Coolidge  The 1920s provide a contrast. Due to the  Teapot Dome 
scandal, Harding ranks very low on the presidential charts, even
lower than Calvin “Silent Cal” Coolidge. But Harding well
understood the importance of stability for commerce and
contracts. In his inaugural address, Harding promised the
country a predictable environment for business deals in language
far different from the current political discourse: “Any wild
experiment,” Harding warned, “will only add to the
confusion.”  There was no “change” in the Harding plan. “Our best
assurance,” he said, “lies in efficient administration of the
current system.” A sharp recession gripped the country in the
early 1920s, leading to unemployment as high as 20 percent in
some months in the cities.  Harding died suddenly in August 1923. Vice president
Coolidge was vacationing at home in Plymouth Notch, Vermont.
Coolidge’s father, John, a Vermont notary, swore him in. This
was partly expedience. But the idea that a humble notary could
assure the security of the U.S. presidency appealed to Coolidge
and, apparently, more recently, to Senator Leahy, who mentioned
Coolidge when he sponsored the unfortunate notary bill.  Pocket Veto  Once president, Coolidge repeatedly made sure that
contracts and property were honored. Coolidge did this first of
all by keeping government out of the way and curtailing
government expansion. His favorite vehicle for blocking
Congressional plots was the one that President Obama used: the
pocket veto, when a president vetoes legislation by allowing it
to go into a Congressional recess unsigned.  Coolidge likewise denied bailouts when he could, sometimes
in a manner that would appall today. The Greece of those days
was Germany, which had been forced into a horrendously
unrealistic reparations contract: the Versailles Treaty.
Germany’s terms were rewritten, but Coolidge was skeptical.  As Time magazine reported, Coolidge said of the agonizing
Germans: “They hired the money, didn’t they?” Time commented:
“He did not want the U.S. taxpayer to cover German
reparations.” Banks failed routinely in the 1920s, and by the
thousands. As for the dollar, the Fed and Treasury of those
years protected it so well that  Cole Porter  included these lines
in a famous song: “You’re the top. You’re an arrow collar.
You’re the top. You’re a Coolidge dollar.”  The result of this callous inhumanity was highly humane:
The economy grew an average of more than 3 percent a year -- 4
percent or more under Coolidge. Unemployment fell below 5
percent and stayed there.  So, sure, contracts may be necessary casualties in
recessions. Still, it’s possible that ours has been a contracts
recession. Defending humdrum deals may in the end be the only
way to get more of them.  ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Amity Shlaes  at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  