-- Obama Backs State Foreclosure Probe, Against Nationwide Freeze, Gibbs Says
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-12T15:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/obama-backs-state-foreclosure-probe-against-nationwide-freeze-gibbs-says.html
President  Barack Obama  is throwing
his support behind state attorneys general looking into filings
of allegedly faulty home foreclosures while rejecting a
nationwide freeze on home foreclosures because of potential
“unintended consequences,” said a White House spokesman.  “We’re supportive of getting to the bottom of the process
and insuring that these banks are following the legal process
for making these decisions,” White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  told reporters. “There are a series of unintended
consequences to a broader moratorium.”  Attorneys general in about 40 states are planning a joint
investigation into potentially faulty foreclosures at the
largest banks and mortgage firms, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter. The investigation may center on
claims that employees at home lenders and loan servicers signed
court documents without ensuring the information was accurate.  Bank of America Corp . halted foreclosures in all 50 states
last week, while lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and Ally
Financial Inc. have stopped evictions in 23 states where courts
supervise home seizures. They’re checking allegations that
employees used unverified or false data to speed the process.  Officials in at least seven states have already announced
probes into claims that employees at home lenders and loan
servicers signed court documents without ensuring the
information was accurate.  The Senate Banking Committee plans to hold a hearing Nov.
16 to investigate mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices,
according to its website.  The remarks by Gibbs reinforce comments by White House
senior adviser  David Axelrod , who said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” program Oct. 10 that there are valid foreclosures that
ought to proceed, and the White House is urging the industry to
get the situation “unwound very, very quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net 
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  