-- Obama Engages in Class Warfare With His Campaign for Democratic Lawmakers
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-12T13:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/obama-engages-in-class-warfare-with-his-campaign-for-democratic-lawmakers.html
President  Barack Obama  is returning
to the rhetorical roots of Democratic politics in the final
weeks of this election: setting up a battle of the classes.  Presenting Democrats as the party that will fight for the
“middle class,” and Republicans as the party that will look
out for “millionaires and billionaires,” Obama in campaign
speeches and at fundraisers has sought to make his point using a
populist lexicon that aligns Republicans with big businesses as
the forces behind the worst recession since the Great
Depression.  His cast of villains makes repeated appearances, including
in Obama’s remarks at an Oct. 10 rally in Philadelphia:
“special interests,” “Wall Street banks,” “corporations,”
the “oil industry,” the “insurance industry” and “credit-
card companies.” Specific corporations aren’t spared, as when
the president said the Republican governing agenda was “written
by a former lobbyist for AIG and Exxon Mobil.”  “If the other side wins, they’ll try their hardest to give
rein back to the insurance companies and the credit-card
companies and the Wall Street banks that we’re finally holding
accountable,” Obama told a crowd of supporters in Philadelphia.  With the nation’s  unemployment rate  equaling or exceeding
9.5 percent for 14 consecutive months and forecasts saying it
will remain at that rate through the middle of next year, Obama
is trying to redirect voter anger and anxiety away from his
policies to mitigate likely Democratic losses in the Nov. 2
election.  Attitudes Toward Business  While the White House has been criticized by prominent
corporate leaders for being anti-business, most voters don’t
share those concerns. A Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct.
7-10 found that more than half of likely voters believe Obama
has struck the right balance or is too pro-business. Only 36
percent of voters consider the president anti-business.  “This is clearly designed to sort of draw out the bad guy
in this election,” said  Evan Tracey , president of  Kantar
Media’s  CMAG in Arlington, Virginia, which tracks political ads.  “There is certainly a lot of anger at corporate America
because of bailouts, because of the Wall Street collapse,”
Tracey said. “So what they’re looking for is really a target of
opportunity.”  ‘Class Warfare’  Kevin Madden , who worked for Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  during the 2008 election, called Obama’s
rhetoric “class warfare of the worst kind” that risks
undermining the type of presidential campaign he ran.  “Voters who gravitated to Obama as someone who held the
promise of being unconventional now see him as a typical
politician, wallowing in the status quo,” Madden said.  Paul Begala , a Democratic strategist and onetime political
adviser to former President  Bill Clinton , said it is Republicans
in this election who are pitting economic classes against each
other with proposals that favor creating private investment
accounts for Social Security and giving tax breaks to
corporations moving jobs overseas.  “That sure sounds like class warfare to me, class warfare
being waged by Republicans against the middle class,” he said.
“Bully for President Obama for calling them on it.”  Republicans aren’t shying away from invoking class either.  In an Oct. 6  strategy memo  for Republican candidates,
former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  said there is a “devastating
and accurate contrast between the Democratic Party of food
stamps and the Republican party of paychecks.”  Populist Tradition  Obama’s rhetoric fits in a long tradition of populist
political messages.  Franklin Roosevelt  in his first inaugural
 address  assailed “unscrupulous money changers” and called for
restoration of “social values more noble than mere monetary
profit.”  At a Democratic Party event for younger voters in
Washington on Sept. 30, Obama said Republican victories in next
month’s elections would “give back power to the same special
interests we’ve been fighting for the last 20 months.”  Obama has expanded the battlefield to include pro-
Republican groups funded by undisclosed donors who are paying
for advertising attacking Democratic candidates. He argues that
is the result of a Supreme Court ruling in January in Citizens
United v. Federal Election Commission, which struck down limits
on corporate and union political expenditures.  ‘You Don’t Know’  “It could be the oil industry, could be the insurance
industry, could be Wall Street, you don’t know,” Obama said at
a fundraiser in Chicago on Oct. 7.  He also has questioned whether groups like the U.S.  Chamber
of Commerce  and other tax-exempt organizations that don’t
disclose their donors are using money from “foreign-owned
corporations” to run political ads against Democratic
candidates.  “You don’t know because they don’t have to disclose,” he
said in Philadelphia.  While Obama doesn’t mention the chamber by name, aides
including top political adviser  David Axelrod  have made clear
it’s among the targets. The Democratic National Committee has
produced an ad naming the chamber, saying it “shills for big
business” and suggesting Republicans may be “benefiting from
secret foreign money.” The chamber has called the ad
“ridiculous and false.”  ‘Attempt to Demonize’  “We are seeing an attempt to demonize specific groups and
distract Americans from a failed economic agenda,” said  Bruce Josten , the chamber’s Vice President.  The chamber, the nation’s largest business association, is
pushing back. The organization is spending $75 million to back
pro-business candidates, and its president,  Tom Donohue , said
last week that the administration is imposing regulations on
health care, energy, the environment and labor that are
“suffocating the entrepreneurial spirit.”  White House communications director  Dan Pfeiffer  said
Obama’s message has been consistent since he began running for
president in 2007.  “What he’s saying right now is very consistent with what
he said when he was in the primaries in 2008, in the general
election in 2008, when he first got to the White House and all
of this year,” he said. “The debate we’re having is about a
fundamental difference in economic philosophy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  