-- Hoenig Doubts Effectiveness of Additional Fed Large-Scale Asset Purchases
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2010-10-12T15:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/hoenig-doubts-effectiveness-of-additional-fed-large-scale-asset-purchases.html
Thomas Hoenig , the Federal Reserve’s
longest-serving official, cast doubt on the effectiveness of a
possible new round of asset purchases to stimulate the economy,
saying the costs are likely to outweigh the benefits.  Undertaking such a move without clear terms and goals
“becomes an open-ended commitment that leads to maintaining the
funds rate too low and the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet too
large,” Hoenig, president of the Kansas City Fed, said in the
text of a speech today in Denver. “The result is a further
misallocation of resources, more imbalances, and more
volatility.”  Hoenig, the only policy maker to cast dissenting votes on
the Federal Open Market Committee this year, reiterated his view
that officials should begin taking steps to lift interest rates
from near zero. Central bank policy makers are debating how to
deploy tools for more stimulus after the FOMC said on Sept. 21
that it’s prepared to take action “if needed” to spur growth
and achieve its mandate of stable prices and full employment.  The benefits of further purchases “are likely to be
smaller than the costs,” he said to the National Association
for Business Economics.  “These are difficult times, no doubt, and it is tempting
to think that zero interest rates can spark a quick recovery,”
he said. “However, we should not ignore the possible unintended
consequences of such actions.”  Stocks Gain  The Dow Jones Industrial Average has risen more than 2
percent since the Fed’s Sept. 21 meeting on expectations the
central bank will take further action to spur the economy. Two-
year Treasury yields fell to a record 0.327 percent today before
trading little changed at 0.35 percent at 11:03 a.m. in New
York.  The Fed will release minutes of the Sept. 21 meeting at 2
p.m. today New York time.  The U.S. economy is undergoing a “modest recovery” with
“highly encouraging” signs, and yet new jobs being added by
the private sector aren’t enough to bring down unemployment,
which stands at 9.6 percent, Hoenig said.  The U.S. lost more jobs than forecast in September as local
governments fired teachers and other workers in response to
declining tax revenue, a government report showed last week.  Payrolls fell by 95,000 workers after a revised 57,000
decrease in August. Private employers added 64,000 jobs, less
than forecast. Wages and the workweek stagnated.  Hoenig, 64, has led the Kansas City Fed since 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  