-- Toilet Paper at $80 Tames $1.3 Trillion Tiger: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-10-12T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/toilet-paper-at-80-tames-1-3-trillion-tiger-william-pesek.html
In our technology-driven world, no
metric is rawer than that of human bodily functions.  Sadly for India, it’s one that keeps cropping up. Toilet
shortages leave all too many of India’s 1.2 billion people
relieving themselves outside. Illness, lost productivity and
other consequences of fouled water and inadequate sewage
treatment are literally crimping gross domestic product.  Toilets have also played a role in the Commonwealth Games,
which end tomorrow. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  wanted the
event to “signal to the world that India is rapidly marching
ahead with confidence.” The media focused instead on filthy
bathrooms in the athletes’ village and 100-roll packs of toilet
paper for $80.  We’re talking about a nation in which 828 million people
live on less than $2 a day. An Indian making that could buy two
rolls of Commonwealth Games toilet paper with a day’s wages. The
mess shines a bright spotlight on the shortcomings that hold
back a $1.3 trillion economy.  Yet all this bad press might be exactly what India needs.
It could generate enough shame to catalyze officials in New
Delhi to get serious about fixing the economy. It also may just
be the shove in the direction of private-sector leadership that
 India  so clearly lacks.  Shoddy construction, excessive work delays, claims of
tainted swimming-pool water that some athletes say caused
“Delhi belly” and a dengue-fever outbreak are products of the
forces squandering the benefits of India’s 8.8 percent growth.
Smart and well-intentioned as he is, Singh has made little
progress since 2004. Is that about to change?  Airport Lessons  The tale of New Delhi’s new airport terminal, run by a
company called  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. , shows not only why it
must change, but how it can. It was finished on schedule in
March. Now contrast that with government-built stadiums such as
New Delhi’s weightlifting hall. It was among 17 arenas that also
were supposed to be finished by March.  Worse than running behind schedule, the roof at the
weightlifting venue leaked and required frantic rebuilding
before the  games , which end tomorrow. That didn’t fit with
the smooth opening of the airport terminal, which began handling
flights on July 28.  Just as with India’s battle with poverty, the private
sector is outshining the public one. Look at technology, where
homegrown  companies  put India firmly on the global business map.
The industry blossomed partly because it developed around
India’s political system as opposed to within it. In the
beginning, there was no overbearing government ministry stifling
its growth. Microcredit lenders also have done far more to help
the poor than the  government .  Not Up to It  India needs more of this dynamic, and now, because
politicians aren’t up to the task. Few examples prove the point
better than the Commonwealth Games.  Staging the event, a $4.6 billion undertaking attended by
71 nations and territories, contrasts in cartoonish ways with
Beijing’s hosting of the  2008 Olympics , which cost $70 billion
with 204 countries participating. New Delhi’s efforts have been
mired in ridiculous delays and accusations of rampant corruption
and mismanagement.  There’s a silver lining here. India must improve
infrastructure to accelerate growth and broaden its benefits.
While growth has averaged 8.5 percent over the last five years,
poor transport and other facilities could cost 1.1 percentage
points of growth, or $200 billion by fiscal 2017, McKinsey & Co.
said in a report last year.  Private Sector  India needs to spend about $1 trillion on highways, ports,
airports and utilities from April 2012 to March 2017, twice the
amount the nation’s  Planning Commission  recommended in the
previous five years. Given the government’s missteps, the
private sector can expect a far bigger share of that business.  Asia’s third-biggest economy would be better off for it.
It’s naive to think letting companies like GMR and  Reliance
Infrastructure Ltd.  play a bigger role in building efforts is a
panacea for what ails India. It’s a great start, though.  Transparency International ranked India behind Guatemala,
El Salvador and Serbia in its 2009  corruption perceptions index 
-- and six places behind China. Clearly, Indian companies are
home to more than their fair share of crony capitalism. Yet
getting politicians’ hands out of the economy is the key to
India’s long-term prosperity.  Job Opportunities  Doing so will help create the hundreds of millions of good-
paying jobs India needs to harness enviable demographics. Thirty
percent of the population is younger than 15, which is in sharp
contrast with aging China. A young, English-speaking workforce
is only useful if it has opportunities.  India has seen several false big-change moments. One came
in May 2004, when voters tossed Prime Minister  Atal Bihari Vajpayee  out of office. Another came in May 2009, when Singh was
re-elected with a solid mandate to retool the economy.  The “Commonfilth Games,” as the Daily Mirror dubbed them,
could be the real turning point. Ignoring such a cringe-inducing
spectacle is impossible for Singh, his nation’s people and the
high-profile entrepreneurs who congregate at World Economic
Forum confabs in Davos, Switzerland.  India has much potential, and its economy may even outpace
China’s in the years ahead. Yet India desperately needs to clear
the layers of dysfunction clogging progress. Embarrassment over
toilets might just be the catalyst.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  