-- Hong Kong Developers May Pay $199 Million for Site as Home Sales Recover
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-10-12T04:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/hong-kong-developers-may-pay-199-million-for-site-as-home-sales-recover.html
Hong Kong will sell a residential
site today for a price that’s forecast to set a record for the
area, signaling confidence that the rally in luxury home prices
will withstand a crackdown on speculation.  The site in the Kowloon Tong district may fetch as much as
HK$1.54 billion ($199 million), according to the median estimate
of five surveyors in a Bloomberg News survey. That would be
equivalent to about HK$17,000 a square foot, breaking a record
for the Kowloon Peninsula set by an adjacent site sold in August.  Hong Kong’s government has in the past year announced a
series of measures to rein in home prices that have  surged  on
the back of record-low mortgage rates and an influx of mainland
Chinese buyers. Chief Executive Donald Tsang may announce new
subsidies for homebuyers in his policy address tomorrow to quell
concerns that housing is becoming unaffordable.  Midland Holdings Ltd.,  Hong Kong’s biggest publicly traded
real-estate agency, estimates the development of the site could
fetch as much as HK$22,000 a square foot.  “The result will show how prices of luxury homes continue
to deviate from the mass market,” said  David Ng , a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Developers
are still chasing after land that can be turned into luxury
developments.”  The government was forced to withdraw a site with views of
a cemetery at its last auction on Sept. 29, after receiving no
bids at a starting price of HK$530 million. The site was among
three the government said it would sell as part of measures to
rein in home prices.  ‘Aggressive Bidder’  Kerry Properties Ltd. , the builder controlled by the family
of Malaysian tycoon Robert Kuok, in August bought a smaller plot
adjacent to the site up for sale today for HK$1.285 billion, 26
percent above the median estimate. That site set a per-square-
foot record for the Kowloon Peninsula of HK$16,587, according to
Midland.  Kerry will probably “be the most aggressive bidder” in
the auction, according to Alnwick Chan, Hong Kong-based
executive director at property consultant Knight Frank LLP. “If
they build the two sites together surely they can benefit from
some sort of synergy effects,” said Chan.  Today’s auction is the eighth by the government in the
current financial year. The site on Ede Road has a maximum
buildable area of 8,424 square meters (90,676 square feet). It
may be jointly developed with the adjacent plot into a luxury
apartment complex with about 100 units, said  Alvin Lam , a
surveyor at Midland.  Sales Surge  “Some of the newer second-hand apartments in the area are
already selling at HK$17,000 a square foot at the moment,” said
Lam. “It normally takes four to five years to complete a
development and it’s safe to assume developers will aim to sell
the project at around HK$22,000 a square foot eventually.”  The number of secondary home sales in 10 of Hong Kong’s
biggest private housing estates jumped 79 percent to 61 last
week, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  Hong Kong’s home prices have surged about 47 percent since
the beginning of 2009, according to Centaline’s statistics.  Most government land sales in recent years, including
today’s auction, have been triggered by developers who promised
to pay minimum amounts for sites on a list of available lots
under the so-called land application system. Regular government
land auctions have been partially resumed this year after they
were halted in 2004 to support falling home prices.  Hong Kong’s government defines luxury apartments as those
with an area of more than 1,000 square feet or valued at HK$10
million or more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  