-- Hong Kong Tops Japan as Asia's Biggest Market for Short Selling
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2010-10-12T16:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/hong-kong-tops-japan-as-asia-s-biggest-market-for-short-selling.html
Hong Kong has surpassed Japan for
the first time as Asia’s most-lucrative market for stock
lenders, boosted by investor demand for Chinese securities to be
used in short sales.  Pensions, mutual funds and banks reaped $245 million in the
past year from loaning out Hong Kong shares, compared with $241
million from Japanese  equities , according to fee data tracked by
 Data Explorers  since 2007. Short sellers borrow and sell stock
hoping that prices will drop and they can buy back the
securities, repay the loan and pocket the difference.  Rising demand to borrow reflects heightened interest in
Chinese companies from bulls and bears alike, not just
speculation equities will fall, according to  Emil Wolter , the
Singapore-based head of Asian regional strategy at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index trades for 14.6
times the profit of its companies, down 40 percent from its 2009
high, while the Shanghai Composite Index fetches 19 times
earnings compared with 51.6 in 2007.  “As the Hong Kong market grows, there’s an increasing
amount of activity that is not necessarily directional, like
arbitrage, program trading and more complex trading strategies
that are being put to work,” Wolter said. “Japan has been a
market that’s been fading away for a long time and people are
frustrated with it.”  Firms lending Hong Kong stocks are able to charge bigger
fees because investor demand is growing and the city has fewer
listed companies than Japan, said  Will Duff Gordon , senior
analyst at Data Explorers. More revenue is being generated from
Hong Kong even as the value of the country’s shares on loan is
half the level of Japan, the world’s second-largest equity
market behind the U.S.  Chinese Growth Story  China’s  gross domestic product  may increase 8.9 percent in
2011 and Hong Kong will grow 4.3 percent, according to the
median economist estimate tracked by Bloomberg. Japan is
projected to expand by 1.4 percent next year. Companies doing
business in mainland China make up 58 percent of Hong Kong’s
market value, according to an Oct. 5  presentation  by  Charles Li ,
head of the city’s bourse.  The annual fee to borrow stocks in the U.S. and  Japan  is
0.5 percent or less for more than 56 percent of the securities
that can be loaned, Data Explorers said in an Oct. 7
presentation. In Hong Kong, 38 percent of shares are that cheap.  Cost to Borrow  Lenders charge at least 1.5 percent annually for 47 percent
of Hong Kong’s  shares  on loan, according to Data Explorers,
which tracks more than 20,000 securities lending programs
managed by institutional investors and custody banks around the
world. The proportion is 32 percent for borrowed Japanese shares
and 25 percent for those in the  U.S.   “In Hong Kong, you’ve got a very small supply of expensive
merchandise going out the door,” said Duff Gordon in an
interview from London. “There are still plenty of
inefficiencies in the Hong Kong market and arbitrages between
China and Hong Kong shares, which means people will continue to
be active in playing these trades.”  More than $24 billion of stock was on loan in Hong Kong
last month, according to figures compiled by Data Explorers.
That compares with $44 billion in  Japan , the data show. Boston-
based State Street Corp., and JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of
New York Mellon Corp., both based in New York, run the world’s
three largest securities lending programs, Data Explorers said.  Lending Revenue  Revenue for securities lenders has risen as companies from
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s largest lender by
customers, to phone company  PCCW Ltd.  sold shares in Hong Kong
this year. Companies raised HK$326 billion ($42 billion) in the
first nine months of 2010, the most for any January-to-September
period since at least 1999, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  About 62 million shares, or HK$253.7 million, of Beijing-
based Agricultural Bank were  shorted  on Oct. 12, according to
the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Investors borrowed and sold 367
thousand shares, or HK$1.02 million, of Hong Kong-based  PCCW ,
the same day the data show.  Asian companies outside of Japan may raise a further $116
billion in share sales by the end of the year, boosting the
total for 2010 to a record $291 billion, New York-based
Citigroup Inc. said in a Sept. 20 report.  Mutual Funds  Investors have poured money into equity mutual funds that
invest in Asia excluding Japan for the past five weeks, adding
$5.3 billion, as economic growth in the region exceeds Europe
and the U.S., based on an Oct. 7 note from  EPFR Global . They’ve
withdrawn cash from funds that buy Japanese shares in 14 of the
past 15 weeks, data from the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research firm show.  The  Hang Seng Index  reached a two-year high on Oct. 11 and
has rallied 5.7 percent this year on rising Hong Kong property
prices and economic reports that show China’s economy gaining
momentum. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average is down 11 percent
for 2010 after the yen rallied to a 15-year high, spurring
speculation profits for Japanese exporters will weaken.  “The universe of names is increasing and the quality of
the companies has increased” for Asian countries outside Japan,
said  Jesse Lentchner , the Hong Kong-based chief executive
officer of BTIG LLC’s Asia Pacific operations. “I don’t think
you’ll see an increase in the number of people concentrating on
Japan or an increase in the assets chasing performance in
Japan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 