-- OPEC May Maintain Oil Output at Vienna Meeting on Uneven Economic Growth
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2010-10-12T11:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/opec-may-maintain-quotas-after-saudi-minister-says-market-well-balanced-.html
OPEC  ministers gave their strongest
indication yet that they will leave oil-production quotas
unchanged at this week’s meeting as faltering growth in some of
world’s biggest economies stifles demand.  The market is “very well-balanced,” Saudi Arabian Oil
Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said late yesterday as he arrived in
Vienna for the Oct. 14 meeting of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of Libya’s National
Oil Corp., said in London today there’s no need for to alter
quotas, echoing comments made by Qatari Oil Minister  Abdullah al-Attiyah  in an Oct. 10 interview.  The meeting is “broadly seen as rolling over existing
production targets,”  Lawrence Eagles , head of commodity
strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, wrote in a
research note yesterday.  Growth in oil demand will be uneven next year, with the
International Energy Agency forecasting a 4.3 percent increase
in China and a 0.8 percent reduction in Europe’s five biggest
countries. OPEC, which supplies 40 percent of the world’s oil,
is benefiting as prices stay above the $70-to-$80-a-barrel band
that al-Naimi reiterated is “ideal.”  Crude for November delivery fell 54 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to $81.67 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange at 12:31 p.m. London time. Prices have
settled above $80 for the past seven days, the longest stretch
since August.  ‘Happy’ With Market  “Everyone is happy with the market,” al-Naimi said to
reporters when asked whether OPEC should boost supplies this
year. “Consumer, producer, everyone is happy,” he said.  The Saudi minister, representing OPEC’s biggest oil
producer, declined to comment further on the group’s policy this
morning. More ministers will arrive in the Austrian capital
today and tomorrow, where they will hold informal talks before
their policy meeting on Oct. 14.  Algerian Oil Minister  Youcef Yousfi  said yesterday in
Algiers that oil prices of $90 to $100 a barrel are
“reasonable” considering current output levels.  OPEC raised  production  by 5 percent from a five-year low
in March 2009, and now exceeds its own target by 1.9 million
barrels a day, about the same amount as  Angola  produces. Output
from the 12 members was 29.1 million barrels a day in September,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  Boost Production  OPEC may boost production by about 600,000 to 700,000
barrels a day in 2011, according to Statoil ASA, Norway’s
biggest oil and gas producer. The increase wouldn’t come until
the second half of the year, to allow time for inventories to
decline first,  Sandrine Toerstad ,  head of market analysis at
the company’s oil-trading and supply unit, said in a
presentation in Oslo today.  Demand for OPEC’s crude will decline from 29.2 million
barrels a day in the fourth quarter of this year, to 28.3
million in the second quarter of 2011, before recovering
thereafter, according to the group’s monthly report which was
released today.  While China’s gross domestic product will grow 8.9 percent
in 2011, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 24 economists, the poll shows growth of 2 percent for
Germany, Europe’s biggest oil consumer.  OPEC agreed to a record 4.2 million-barrel-a-day cut in
production in late 2008 as  global demand  fell 0.6 percent, the
first decline since 1983. Members are now adhering to about 57
percent of that cut, the monthly report showed.  “We don’t want to rock the boat and do something that
maybe will have a negative effect on the world economy,” OPEC
Secretary-General  Abdalla El-Badri  said in a Sept. 14 Bloomberg
Television interview from Vienna.  Spare Capacity  Rising production from the group diminishes the cushion of
spare capacity available to be brought on at short notice during
supply disruptions, a trend which is positive for prices over
the next couple of years, according to a report today by Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co.  West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark grade,
will average $85 in 2011, according to the median of 23 analysts
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey this month. All of the
respondents said OPEC will leave production targets unchanged
when oil ministers meet this week.  OPEC may still seek higher prices given that the dollar is
weakening because of speculation the Federal Reserve will sell
bonds to revive economic growth, said JPMorgan and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. Oil is traded internationally in dollars.  Currency Debate  The Chinese yuan last week climbed to its strongest level
against the dollar since 1993. The Brazilian real has rallied
for eight straight weeks against the U.S. currency, a decline
that the country’s finance minister,  Guido Mantega , last month
called a “currency war.”  “If we continue to see what the Brazilian finance minister
described as a currency war, it is likely that OPEC will take
notice and will demand a higher price for its oil,” Merrill’s
head of global commodity research,  Francisco Blanch , said in an
Oct. 7 interview in London.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Vienna at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ola Galal  in Vienna at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  