-- Mortgage Bonds Fall in U.K. Amid Indigestion on Home-Price Drop
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2010-10-12T08:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/mortgage-bonds-fall-in-britain-amid-indigestion-on-decline-in-home-prices.html
Securities that banks use to spread
the risk of U.K. mortgage lending are falling as a flood of new
issues and slumping house prices curb appetite for the debt.  Mortgage-backed bond yields rose to 140 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate, the highest in two
months and up from 135 a month ago, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. The spread on top-rated mortgage-backed securities pooling
U.K. home loans was 425 basis points in January 2009.  Spreads widened as sales of asset-backed bonds led by U.K.
mortgage lenders jumped to $18.4 billion in September, the
busiest month since the second half of 2007, JPMorgan data
shows. Britain’s mortgage-backed bond market, Europe’s largest,
virtually shut two years ago after notes linked to  U.S. subprime
debt  slumped, causing investors to shun hard-to-value assets.
Sales restarted in September 2009.  “The market is currently suffering a bit of new-issue
indigestion,” said  Stefano Loreti , portfolio manager at Cairn
Capital Ltd., where he helps manage about $30 billion of assets.  Bonds sold last month by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
Arran Mortgage Funding program and Banco Santander SA’s Fosse
Master Issuer Plc are being quoted at below face value in
secondary market trading, according to three people familiar
with how the securities trade.  Arran, Fosse  RBS’s 655 million-pound ($1.06 billion) issue of Arran
2010-1 A3 bonds was quoted at a bid price of as much as 10 basis
points below face value yesterday, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the information is private. The notes
were priced at par to yield 150 basis points over the London
interbank offered rate. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Santander’s Fosse 2010-4’s 675 million-pound issue of A1
bonds sold on Sept. 2 was quoted at bid price of about 99.91
percent, the people said. The securities were issued at 100
percent of face value, yielding a spread of 140 basis points.  “Arran performed well post launch, and even in the recent
softer market remains bid at reoffer or within a fraction of a
basis point of reoffer levels across all tranches,”  Harman Dhami , a syndicate manager at RBS, said in an e-mail. Santander
U.K. spokesman  Anthony Frost  declined to comment.  Britain’s housing recovery may be faltering as the biggest
spending squeeze since World War II deters buyers and banks
restrict access to credit.  Prices Plunge  The number of U.K. real-estate agents saying home prices
fell exceeded those reporting gains by 36 percentage points in
September, down from minus 32 points in August, the Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors said today.  The report follows data from U.K. mortgage lender Halifax
showing house prices plunged 3.6 percent in September, the
biggest drop since at least 1983. Property derivatives show the
Halifax index may fall another 7.5 percent, Bank of America
Corp. analyst  Caspar Cook  wrote in a report published yesterday.  “The record drop in the Halifax housing index could dent
the investor confidence needed to support another wave of supply
at the current prices,” Loreti at Cairn Capital said.  Banks create mortgage-backed securities by pooling home
loans and selling them to investors as notes. The bonds
typically allow lenders to raise capital more cheaply than by
issuing unsecured debt.  The pipeline of new U.K. mortgage-backed bonds is building
with Lloyds Banking Group marketing securities that include the
first yen-denominated notes. Investec Plc, the Johannesburg-
based private bank, is selling the first notes backed by U.K.
non-conforming mortgages since 2007. Banks have created even
more securities that they keep to use as collateral for loans
from central banks.  Attractive Premium  Banks had slashed their holdings of asset-backed securities
in 2007 when prices plunged. The European Central Bank got stung
for 10.3 billion euros in 2008 when five firms, including a unit
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., defaulted on loans where
asset-backed securities were pledged as collateral.  “Without a larger investor base it’s difficult for the
market to continue to absorb large new issues unless there is an
attractive premium,” said Loreti, who is helping Cairn invest
about $250 million of new cash in European securitizations.  RBS, the U.K.’s largest nationalized lender, issued 4.6
billion pounds of bonds backed by prime U.K. mortgages on Sept.
22 in its first public sale of the debt since 2007, Bloomberg
data show. Santander U.K. sold $1.9 billion of similar bonds
Sept. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  