-- Household Lending `Bias' May Harm Australia's Economy, NAB Executive Says
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-10-12T02:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/household-lending-bias-may-harm-australia-s-economy-nab-executive-says.html
Australia’s economic growth may be
eroded by local banks’ preference toward household lending over
business loans, a  National Australia Bank Ltd.  executive said.  “Any bias of one asset class over another has potentially
long-term harmful consequences, particularly if that means there
is less credit being made available to the business sector,”
 Joseph Healy , the bank’s business banking chief, told a finance
conference in Sydney today.  Australia’s ability to tap foreign investors for funding
may also weaken in coming years as economic growth recovers in
other developed markets, Healy said. If local credit growth
rebounds to an annual pace of 8.5 percent, new wholesale term
debt issuance will need to rise A$320 billion ($313 billion) by
2014 from an estimated A$140 billion this year, UBS AG analysts
said in April.  “We should recognize that the Australian banks today are
amongst the largest issuers” on international debt markets,
Healy said. “There is a risk that the appetite from the
international investors for Australian bank paper could have a
natural limit, notwithstanding our very strong credit ratings.”  Healy’s concerns echo recent remarks by other bank
executives, including Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
Chairman  John Morschel , who said this month that Australians
must save more to cut reliance on overseas fundraising.  Lending Bias  “Any  economy  that finds itself constrained in its capacity
to lend may be storing up longer-term problems that the current
headlines and strength of resources sector may be disguising,”
Healy said at the Australia Banking + Finance conference today.  Healy said there is “strong evidence of a lending bias
toward the household sector.”  A decade ago, for every dollar of lending to households, a
similar amount was extended to businesses, he said. “By 2010,
for every A$1,000 of lending to households, the lending to the
business sector has shrunk to just A$600,” he said.  Lending to businesses  shrank 0.6 percent in August from
July, the most in ten months, taking the annual decline to 4
percent, while housing credit rose 0.6 percent in the month and
8.1 percent from a year earlier, Australian central bank figures
showed Sept. 30.  Increased mortgage lending, plus an 18.4 percent surge in
house prices in eight major cities in the year to June, were
among reasons Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens 
increased  borrowing costs  six times from October 2009, to May in
the most aggressive monetary policy tightening by a Group of 20
policy maker.  Bubble Concern  Jeremy Grantham , chief investment strategist at Boston-
based Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co. and  Gerard Minack , chief
strategist for global developed markets at Morgan Stanley’s
Australian unit, are among those warning of an Australian
housing bubble, with homes about 40 percent overvalued.  The International Monetary Fund cautioned last week that
housing in Australia may be overvalued and a reversal in prices
could hurt consumers.  “It’s vital that banks continue to support businesses as
well as the household sector,” Healy said. “A banking system
that doesn’t do this well may be creating problems for our
future and this is an issue here in Australia, given the
apparent bias towards household lending we’ve seen in recent
years and the potential funding constraints in the future.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  