-- Housing's Recovery Stalled Amid Foreclosure Overhang, Kass Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-12T17:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/housing-s-recovery-stalled-amid-foreclosure-overhang-kass-says-tom-keene.html
Recovery for the housing market is
being restrained by the overhang of foreclosed properties, said
 Douglas Kass , who manages equity funds at Seabreeze Partners and
was formerly a housing analyst at Kidder Peabody & Co.  “Housing is haunted by a large shadow inventory and
certainly low interest rates have done little to improve that
situation,” Kass said in an interview today on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  With low interest rates and falling housing prices, the
ingredients for a recovery would be in place under normal
circumstances, Kass said. “It’s different this time in
housing,” he said.  “Affordability, as we know, is at a multidecade high,”
Kass said. “The benefits of home ownership vis-à-vis renting a
home are at a 14- or 15-year high. Interest rates are at
generational lows. The production of new homes over the last
two-and-a-half years are at record lows.”  The speculative excesses of the housing bubble continue to
weigh on the market, which is exacerbated by the inability of
lenders to clear their books when homeowners fall into arrears,
Kass said.  “We’re stuck with this indigestion and deleveraging in the
housing cycle and this foreclosure moratorium is going to serve
to reduce the availability of mortgage credit over the next six
months,” Kass said.  With the recovery stalled, Kass said he expects the economy
to remain in a “contained recession,” with the efforts of
policy makers to stimulate growth becoming less effective. “I’m
growing more negative,” he said.  Betting on declining stock prices may be more attractive
than pursuing price appreciation, Kass said. “I’m risk-averse
right now and looking for opportunities to short,” or wager on
falling shares, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  