-- Jacobson's `Finkler' Is First Comedy to Win Man Booker Prize
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n   a n d   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-10-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/howard-jacobson-wins-man-booker-prize-for-fiction-with-finkler-question-.html
Howard Jacobson  won the  Man Booker
Prize for Fiction  last night with “The Finkler Question,” a
dark comedy about a man convinced that tragic love is his
destiny. It is the first overtly comic novel to win the prize in
its 42-year history.  Accepting the honor, Jacobson said it strengthened his
belief that entertainment and good literature are not
incompatible: “The better the writing, the more fun there is in
reading it.”  The judges praised Jacobson, 68, for the book’s impressive
range of tone, humor and melancholy.  “It knows something that Shakespeare knows in the great
comedies -- that the relationship between what’s tragedy and
what’s funny is intimately linked,” said the chairman of the
judging panel, former U.K. poet laureate Andrew Motion. “The
novel is comic but it’s laughter in the dark.”  Jacobson has called himself a Jewish  Jane Austen . He
overcame competition from the bookies’ favorite, Tom McCarthy’s
“C,” as well as two-time winner  Peter Carey  and three other
finalists to claim the U.K.’s most prestigious literary award,
worth 50,000 pounds ($78,900), at a black-tie dinner in London’s
medieval Guildhall.  At a press conference after the ceremony, Jacobson was
asked what he would spend the prize money on. He said he had
promised to buy his wife a handbag. What else?  “Have you seen the price of handbags? I might stretch to a
pair of shoes,” he said.  London Mugging  “The Finkler Question” ( Bloomsbury ) revolves around
Julian Treslove, a man mugged by a woman while walking back to
his London apartment one night. As she slams his face into the
window of a violin store, Julian thinks he hears her call him
“you Jew.”  This is the calamitous moment he has been waiting for, and
it brings the bonus of a religious slur. Though Julian is as
goyish as can be, he decides to convert to Judaism. Jewish
suffering will bring purpose to his life -- or so he thinks in
this mordant exploration of anti-Semitism.  “It’s either a very funny book with very sad bits in it --
or a very sad book with very funny bits in it,” Motion said.  Jacobson said though he’s elated that the prize will
finally enable him to shake off his reputation as “the
underrated Howard Jacobson,” it does present one problem: His
novel-in-progress is about a writer enjoying no success
whatsoever.  “I’m a bit stuck now,” he said.  Runners-Up  Finalists for the prize included Carey’s “Parrot and
Olivier in America” (Faber/ Knopf ), a comic romp based loosely
on the travels of French political thinker  Alexis de
Tocqueville ; and Emma Donoghue’s “Room” ( Picador /Little,
Brown), the story of a 19-year-old college student abducted and
held captive for years in a secure chamber, like Elisabeth
Fritzl of Austria.  The other finalists were Damon Galgut’s “In a Strange
Room” ( Atlantic ), the tale of a young man who takes three
journeys -- through Greece, India and Africa -- that end in
disaster;  Andrea Levy ’s “The Long Song” ( Headline / Farrar,
Straus and Giroux ), about a slave girl born on a Jamaican sugar
plantation in the 19th century; and McCarthy’s “C”
( Cape / Knopf ), a novel of signals, signs and codes centering on a
young Englishman obsessed with radio in the early 20th century.  Sales Increase  A Man Booker prize promises an almost certain increase in
sales. Each of the six finalists, including the winner, receives
2,500 pounds and a specially bound edition of his or her book.  The contest is designed to celebrate the best novel written
by a citizen of the British Commonwealth, the Republic of
Ireland or Zimbabwe and published this year. Established in 1968
by food wholesaler Booker Plc, the prize has been sponsored
since 2002 by hedge-fund manager  Man Group Plc .  Recent winners have included  Hilary Mantel ’s “Wolf Hall,”
Anne Enright’s “The Gathering” and John Banville’s “The
Sea.”  To contact the writers on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net ;
 Hephzibah Anderson  in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 