-- Pandora Chases Drive-Time Radio After Capturing Mobile Market
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/pandora-chases-drive-time-radio-after-capturing-mobile-market.html
Pandora Media Inc., the top Internet
radio company, is luring advertisers such as Hallmark Cards Inc.
and MillerCoors LLC to its streaming service and gearing up to
chase the lucrative drive-time market.  By early next year,  Ford Motor Co.  will be shipping Fiesta
cars with software that operates Pandora via voice controls.
 Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz is promoting the radio service in
vehicles, and Pioneer Electronics sells car stereos that include
Pandora.  Pandora needs a foothold in cars to challenge traditional
radio and attract more advertisers, which pay a premium to reach
listeners during commute hours, according to the  Radio
Advertising Bureau . The advantage of Pandora is marketers can
target users based on age, gender, home ZIP code and musical
taste, letting them deliver more relevant ads than what’s
possible on regular radio, said Scott Kelly, digital marketing
manager at  Ford , which is also advertising on Pandora.  “It’s very intimate,” Kelly said in an interview from
Ford’s headquarters in Dearborn, Michigan. “Because Pandora
knows so much about the user and who they are, where they’re
listening and what artists they like, it really lets us hone in
on that message.”  Pandora, based in Oakland, California, aims to get a bigger
chunk of the more than $17.1 billion radio-ad market. For now,
advertisers mostly reach its 65 million listeners via personal
computers and smartphones. Pandora is one of the most popular
applications on both  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and  Google Inc. ’s
Android devices.  Almost Defunct  Founded in 2000, the closely held company burned through
cash for much of the past decade and was almost forced out of
business by rising music-royalty fees. Its popularity on
smartphones helped Pandora turn a profit for the first time in
the fourth quarter of last year, founder Tim Westergren said in
an interview in January. Revenue more than doubled last year to
$50 million.  This year, sales may reach $125 million, assuming the
company attains 100 million registered users, according to
Internet entrepreneur Steven Carpenter, who published  a report 
in June with the San Francisco-based TechCrunch blog.  The company still faces challenges. Between 60 percent and
70 percent of Pandora’s revenue is paid to the nonprofit music
industry group SoundExchange to compensate for the songs it
plays. And Pandora only serves listeners three ads an hour. That
leaves the company with little money to do its own marketing,
Carpenter said.  More Personal  “It’s about getting as broad distribution as possible
wherever traditional radio was,” said Carpenter, the founder of
Cake Financial, which  E*Trade Financial Corp.  bought in January.
“They’re displacing traditional radio with a more personalized
version of it.”  Revenue for Internet radio remains dwarfed by traditional
broadcasting. Of the $17.1 billion in ad sales that radio will
attract this year, online services will account for 3.3 percent,
or $552 million, according to SNL Kagan, part of the
Charlottesville, Virginia-based research firm SNL Financial. And
as more music goes online, Pandora will be competing with  CBS
Corp. ’s Last.fm, as well as startups like Slacker Inc., Spotify
Ltd., Mog Inc. and Rdio Inc.  Commuting hours are especially valuable to advertisers,
said  Jeff Haley , chief executive officer of the Radio
Advertising Bureau, the sales and marketing arm of the radio
industry. The group’s membership includes 6,000 stations.  “Drive time commands roughly a 20 to 30 percent price
premium depending on the market,” Haley said. He expects
commuting hours to maintain higher rates as more radio shifts
online.  DeVry, Whole Foods  For now, Pandora controls more than half the Internet radio
market and is attracting brands such as Hallmark and  DeVry Inc. ,
a for-profit education company. They’re running campaigns on
Pandora that rely on audio messages, ads on computer screens and
mobile commercials.  Whole Foods Market Inc. , the largest U.S.
natural-goods grocer, ran an audio ad in the San Francisco area,
targeted at women age 24 to 34, accompanied by an on-screen
phone ad for a lunch special.  “We’re starting to see the majority of our campaigns be
multiplatform,” said Pandora Chief Revenue Officer John Trimble,
who oversees the company’s ad efforts from New York.  MillerCoors, a joint venture of  SABMiller Plc  and Molson
Coors Brewing Co., uses Pandora to target listeners that it
knows are at least 21 years old, the legal drinking age, said
Kim Luegers, who manages the campaign at Draftfcb, an ad agency
in Chicago.  Away From Home  A bigger presence in the car gives Pandora’s advertisers a
way to reach commuters on the way to and home from work. On
weekdays from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m., 58 percent of radio listeners
are away from home, according to  Arbitron Inc.  From 3 p.m. to 7
p.m., that number increases to 70 percent.  Pandora introduced its first mobile app on the iPhone in
2008, enabling the service to work with Ford’s Sync music and
information system. With Ford’s new AppLink program, which will
be in several cars next year in addition to the Fiesta, drivers
can say an artist’s name and instantly go to that Pandora
station without having to fiddle with buttons. Ford, the
second-biggest U.S. automaker, also has hired musicians Jewel
and  John Legend  as pitchmen to promote its own products on
Pandora.  David Sze , a venture capitalist at Greylock Partners in
Menlo Park, California, predicted that radio listening was
headed to the Internet when he led a $35 million investment in
Pandora last year. While the economy was slumping and most
investors were staying away from advertising companies, Sze saw
a business that was gathering millions of users and changing the
way music is delivered.  “There’s no question that music and audio is a fundamental
aspect of our entertainment and media consumption and all those
are going to the Web,” said Sze, who also invested in social-
networking sites Facebook Inc. and LinkedIn Corp. “There’s a
huge opportunity there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  