-- Strikes at Eiffel Tower Leave Tourists on Streets
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-12T15:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/paris-tourists-stranded-as-strikes-cut-access-to-eiffel-tower-notre-dame.html
Tourists visiting Paris found the
doors closed at the  Eiffel Tower , the Musee d’Orsay and the  Arc
de Triomphe  as public workers joined a national strike to
protest President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s pension-system revamp.  The towers of the  Notre-Dame de Paris  cathedral were closed
until 1 p.m. and the Versailles Palace’s Grand Trianon was shut
to visitors, while the Hall of Mirrors was accessible, according
to the palace’s  website . The Paris Opera canceled a performance
of Puccini’s “Il Trittico” due to the strikes. Visitors also
contended with disrupted service on metros, trains and planes.  “I knew there was a strike, but I assumed that these were
important museums for French tourism and that they would be
open,” said Amy Quinn, 35, who is visiting Paris from South
Carolina with her husband. “But it’s a gorgeous day and there
is still a lot to do, so we’re not lost.”  Travelers’ difficulties may not end today. Labor unions
threatened Sarkozy with an open-ended strike unless he bows to
demands to withdraw a bill raising the retirement age by two
years. Unions for transport and cultural landmark workers will
vote later today or tomorrow whether to continue the walkout for
another 24 hours.  The  Paris metro  operator RATP already voted for a second
day of action. The national-railway system will remain disrupted
until around noon tomorrow when unions meet to vote on whether
to renew the strike, the  CGT  union press office said today.  Many museums, including the Centre Pompidou and the Louvre,
are closed on Tuesdays and may not open tomorrow, said Didier
Allaime, a spokesman for the  CGT labor union .  Flights Canceled  Half of today’s flights to and from Paris Orly  airport  and
a third to and from Roissy Charles de Gaulle were canceled.  Air
France-KLM Group  said the protest didn’t affect its long-haul
flights, while some European and domestic flights were scrapped
or delayed.  Ryanair Holdings Plc  said it canceled 250 French
flights today.  No RER B commuter trains, which  connect  Orly and Charles de
Gaulle airports, are running inside Paris. RER A commuter trains
are running, RATP said.  Eurostar  trains to the U.K. are operating normally and
eight of 10 Thalys trains to Belgium, the Netherlands and
certain German cities are running, national railway operator
SNCF said in a  statement  on its website. Half of the Lyria
trains to Geneva and Zurich are running, while all high-speed
trains to Italy and Spain have been canceled.  A third of the  high-speed trains  between Paris and the
south of France are running, as are half of those between the
capital and the north. Local and regional trains have been
disrupted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  