-- PDVSA to Sell $3 Billion of Debt to Finance Government Housing, Investment
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-10-12T20:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/pdvsa-to-sell-3-billion-bond-to-finance-housing-oil-update2-.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA,  the state
oil company, plans to sell $3 billion of bonds in the local
market to help finance the company’s investment plan and
government housing projects.  PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is known, will provide
further details on the sale of the 2017 bonds in a prospectus on
Oct. 18, the company said in an e-mailed statement. Investors
will be allowed to buy the dollar-denominated bonds with
bolivars, according to the statement.  President Hugo Chavez said Oct. 2 that half of the proceeds
from the bond sale will help finance emergency housing after
heavy rains swept away shanties and killed people in the
country’s slums. Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said Sept. 23 that
proceeds would be used to finance PDVSA’s 2010 investment plan.
Venezuela, which sets two exchange rates for imports and a third
rate that is determined by the central bank, also uses bond
sales to meet local demand for dollars.  “PDVSA is issuing bonds to help the government finance
social programs and to supply dollars to importers,” said
 Alejandro Grisanti , an analyst at Barclays Plc in New York.  PDVSA, which sold $6.3 billion of bonds last year and $1.04
billion of debt in August, may have to double its debt for the
next year in order to maintain current production and finance
investment in the Orinoco Belt, according to energy consulting
firm IPD Latin America.  ‘Expensive’  “PDVSA’s investment plans are limited by the state’s
expensive social spending habits,”  David Voght , managing
director of IPD Latin America, said in an e-mail Oct. 6.  Enrique Sira , Latin American director at IHS Cambridge
Energy Research Associates, estimates PDVSA needs to invest more
than $30 billion next year to maintain current production and
finance projects to start producing oil in the Orinoco Belt
after 2013.  PDVSA said in today’s statement that it will offer to
exchange its bonds due in 2011 for securities that mature in
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lester Pimentel at 
 lpimentel1@bloomberg.net  