-- Peso Bond Yields Reach Three-Year Low on Soybean Exports: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-10-12T20:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/peso-bond-yields-reach-three-year-low-on-soybean-exports-argentina-credit.html
Argentine peso bond yields are
tumbling to the lowest level in three years relative to the
government’s dollar  bonds  as investors bet a record soybean crop
and quickening economic expansion will bolster the currency.  Inflation-linked local-currency debt climbed faster than
Argentine securities denominated in dollars since Sept. 10 as
the yield difference grew to 153 basis points, the widest since
August 2007. Seven months ago, peso bonds yielded 506 basis
points, or 5.06 percentage points, more than the dollar notes.  The fastest economic expansion since 1992 and a record 55-
million metric ton soybean harvest sparked a 92 percent jump in
export tax revenue in September and prompted analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg to pare forecasts for a drop in the peso to their
most bullish outlook in almost two years. Rising exports pushed
Argentina’s foreign reserves to a record $51.5 billion last
week.  “Expectations for peso depreciation over a 12-month period
have come down due to the fact that reserves are higher and due
to the fact that soybean prices are higher,” said  Bret Rosen , a
Latin America debt strategist with Standard Chartered Bank in
New York. “That is part of the reason that people are demanding
more of these peso-denominated instruments.”  Economists are predicting the peso will weaken 5.3 percent
this year and end December at 4.02 to the dollar, according to
the median of 13 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. At the
beginning of the year, they had forecast the currency would
slide 10 percent to 4.2, according to the survey. Slower
declines in the peso help preserve dollar-based returns on local
bonds.  Inflation  The peso has dropped 4 percent this year to 3.9556 per
dollar, compared with a 9 percent tumble in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The government’s 2011 budget
forecasts the peso falling to 4.1 next year.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  may seek to limit
losses in the peso to slow inflation before presidential
elections in October 2011, spurring demand for local securities,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. Argentina’s consumer prices rose
11.1 percent on an annual basis in August, the national
statistics institute reported in Buenos Aires on Sept. 15. The
year-on-year inflation level was at 11.2 percent as of July, the
highest since May 2006.  “The government has a very strong incentive to keep the
currency stable as it is the main anchor against more unstable
inflation and capital flows before the election,” Deutsche Bank
strategists headed by Hongtao Jiang wrote in an e-mailed report
dated Oct. 6.  Tax Revenue  Tax revenue climbed 36 percent in September from a year
earlier to 35.6 billion pesos ($9 billion), about 1 billion
pesos more than the median estimate of three economists in a
Bloomberg survey, the government reported on Oct. 1. Argentina
is the world’s third-largest exporter of soybeans.  The yield on Argentina’s inflation-linked peso bonds due in
2018 dropped 290 basis points since Sept. 10 to 7.8 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The country’s dollar
bonds yield 9.29 percent, down 106 basis points during the same
period, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries slid 56 basis points to 574 at
4:11 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps was little changed
yesterday at 709, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Debt Rating  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy increased 0.49 cent to 12.65 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Argentina’s debt rating is unlikely to be raised in the
“short term,”  Gabriel Torres , an analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service, said Oct. 7. Concern about the accuracy of government
statistics, including inflation and gross domestic product, is
an obstacle to the country achieving a higher rating, he said in
Buenos Aires.  “If there’s something that would sum up the problem we
have in raising the rating for Argentina, it’s the fact that
there’s no confidence in the official numbers,” Torres said.
“That’s something that doesn’t happen in other countries.”  Consumers expect prices to rise 25 percent over the next
year, more than double the official rate and the most in the
world after Venezuela, according to a Sept. 15 survey by Buenos
Aires-based Torcuato Di Tella University.  Inflation Accuracy  Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos  and former Economy Minister  Roberto Lavagna  began to
question official statistics in early 2007, when then-President
 Nestor Kirchner  made personnel changes at the national
statistics institute. Kirchner and Fernandez say government data
is accurate.  An inflation reading of more than 11 percent makes the
country’s securities linked to consumer price increases a “good
investment,” said  Alejandro Urbina , a Chicago-based emerging-
market debt portfolio manager at Silva Capital Management LLC,
which has about $800 million in advisory and management.  “Despite the fact that they’re not giving you all the
compensation that they should, it’s still an attractive return
on the bonds,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net 
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  