-- Lim Offers to Buy Liverpool for $507 Million, Topping Red Sox Owner's Bid
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-10-12T17:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/peter-lim-offers-to-invest-360-million-pounds-in-liverpool.html
Singapore billionaire  Peter Lim 
offered 320 million pounds ($507 million) to buy Premier League
soccer team Liverpool, trumping an accepted offer from the
Boston Red Sox ownership group.  Lim also pledged to make 40 million pounds available to
purchase new players. He bid today as  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  went to court to prevent the team’s current owners
from blocking a 300 million-pound offer from New England Sports
Ventures LLC, which controls the Red Sox baseball team. Lim
announced his bid in an e-mailed statement.  The Singaporean businessman said his all-cash offer, which
will remove the club’s existing debt of 200 million pounds, is
funded from his own resources. It may have come too late, as RBS
is trying to push through the offer from NESV, controlled by
John W. Henry and  Tom Werner . The club, which has won 18
domestic titles and five European Cups, is off to its worst
start in more than 50 years. The team is in 18th place and
threatened with relegation, which would cost millions of pounds.  “I am committed to rebuild the club so that it can soon
regain its position at the pinnacle of English and European
football, where it truly belongs,” Lim said in the statement.
“This is why I have stepped forward with this offer. I believe
that if its massive debt burden can be removed, the club would
be able to focus on improving its performance on the pitch.”  United Links  Lim began as a stockbroker for Indonesian clients and
started managing his own money in 1996. He made his fortune
through holdings in palm oil producers, and a chain of
Manchester United cafes in Asia. Forbes magazine in July ranked
him as the eighth-richest Singaporean, with a worth of $1.6
billion.  Liverpool is in technical default on its loans, and owners
 Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  have vowed to sell. The owners’ Kop
Football (Holdings) Ltd. must repay a 237 million-pound loan,
and costs associated with an April 30 refinancing that has seen
the debt balloon by 40 million pounds.  RBS  today asked a London judge to block changes made by
Hicks and Gillett to Liverpool’s board that could thwart the
club’s planned sale to NESV. The owners say the price is too
low, and want to hold out for higher offers. Liverpool’s board,
which has approved the sale, is seeking court confirmation of
the validity of NESV’s offer.  Justice  Christopher Floyd  is scheduled to give his judgment
at 10 a.m. tomorrow.  Short Circuit  By seeking a quick judgment, RBS and Liverpool’s English
directors are trying to “short-circuit” the legal process,
 Paul Girolami , Hicks’s attorney, said in court.  If the judge grants an injunction today, the independent
board members will meet tonight and rush through a sale to NESV,
Girolami said.  Gillett and Hicks say the sale isn’t legal because they
fired two of the board members that approved it. Chairman  Martin Broughton  says the deal is valid because only he has the power
to change the structure of the board.  Fans have protested the Americans’ ownership and RBS says
the pair breached their contract when they tried to replace
independent board members who approved the sale.  The case “concerns what is an admitted breach of contract
by Mr. Hicks and Mr. Gillett,” done to “frustrate the sale
process,” RBS lawyer  Richard Snowden  said at the High Court in
London today.  ‘Arrogance’  The move showed “breathtaking arrogance,” he said.  RBS, which required Hicks and Gillett to add independent
board members when they last refinanced debt, is the applicant
in the suit. The owners may lose about 140 million pounds if the
deal goes through, Broughton has said.  Government-controlled RBS, based in Edinburgh, wants the
court to issue an injunction forcing Hicks and Gillett to abide
by the contract and restore a “clearly functioning” board that
can act in the best interest of creditors, Snowden said.  Lim, the son of a fisherman, responded to the board’s
decision to accept NESV’s offer by returning with the higher
offer. Broughton previously said the bidding between NESV and
Lim was “very close.”  “When you get a competitive situation like that somebody’s
always going to go home disappointed,” Broughton said. “He
would have been a very good buyer as well.”  The case is: Royal Bank of Scotland v. Hicks, No. HC10C03206,
High Court of Justice Chancery Division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  