-- Petronas Chemicals Said to Plan $4 Billion IPO, Double Original Estimate
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-10-12T06:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/petronas-chemicals-said-to-plan-4-billion-ipo-double-original-estimate.html
Petronas Chemicals Bhd., the
petrochemicals unit of Malaysia’s state oil company, may raise
as much as $4 billion in the Southeast Asian nation’s biggest
initial public offer, said two people familiar with the matter.  Banks advising on the sale set an indicative price of 5.20
ringgit per share, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity. The company had originally planned to raise about $2
billion, people with knowledge of the matter said in June.  Petronas Chemicals is one of two  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. 
units slated for a listing this year.  Malaysia Marine & Heavy
Engineering Bhd. , a maritime heavy engineering group, said in a
prospectus Oct. 6 that it aims to raise as much as 2.04 billion
ringgit ($655 million) this month.  Their listings follow a call by Prime Minister  Najib Razak 
for state-owned enterprises to accelerate asset sales. Petroliam
Nasional, or Petronas, already has four units traded on the
Kuala Lumpur stock exchange. The company will decide next year
whether to sell shares in more units, Chief Executive Officer
 Shamsul Azhar Abbas  said on Oct. 4.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley are advising on the sale. The banks set an indicative
price of 5.20 ringgit a share mainly for indigenous Bumiputera
investors, according to the people who couldn’t be identified
because the information is private. The pricing of the shares
for institutional investors will be decided later after a
marketing trip in about two weeks, one of them said.  Petronas declined to comment, according to an e-mail sent
in response to a Bloomberg query. Reuters first reported the
share sale today.  A total of 22 petrochemicals-related companies have been
combined to form Petronas Chemicals, according to a draft
prospectus released on Sept. 7. Profit at the unit fell 25
percent to 2.59 billion ringgit in the year to March 31 from
3.45 billion a year earlier, while sales dropped 1.3 percent to
12.2 billion ringgit, the prospectus said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Collins in Hong Kong at 
 collinsc@bloomberg.net  