-- Pfizer Acquires Pain Drug Maker King for $3.6 Billion
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-12T20:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/pfizer-agrees-to-purchase-king-pharmaceuticals-for-3-6-billion-in-cash.html
Pfizer Inc. ’s $3.6 billion purchase
of  King Pharmaceuticals Inc.  adds abuse-resistant narcotics to
help the drugmaker expand its share of the $22 billion market
for painkillers.  Pfizer, the world’s  largest drugmaker , will pay $14.25 a
share in cash, a 40 percent premium over King’s closing price
yesterday, for the morphine pill Embeda and two other tamper-
resistant painkillers turned away once by U.S. regulators. The
companies announced the deal today and expect it to close by the
first quarter of 2011.  Pfizer is looking for new products before its  top-selling 
cholesterol pill Lipitor, with $11.4 billion in 2009 sales,
loses revenue to generic competition next year. The New York-
based drugmaker sold more than $5 billion in painkillers in 2009
led by Celebrex for arthritis and Lyrica for nerve pain.  “Pfizer is looking to expand into pain to buffer the fall
from the Lipitor precipice,” said  Corey Davis , an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in New York, in an e-mail today. “I wouldn’t
have predicted this deal, but I can see where it makes sense
given the predicament Pfizer is in.”  The acquisition would be Pfizer’s biggest since its $68
billion purchase of Wyeth last year. The company has done 30
deals in the past five years with an average size of $4.13
billion. The average premium paid for pharmaceutical
acquisitions over the past 12 months was 24 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  King Shares Rise  Pfizer  shares  rose 10 cents to $17.48, while King surged
$3.99, or 39 percent, to $14.14 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Before today, King’s  shares  had
declined 17 percent since Jan. 1 as the Bristol, Tennessee-based
company faced competition from generic copies of the muscle
relaxant Skelaxin, its top-seller last year.  King has been focused on making new painkillers since its
top-selling blood-pressure pill Altace went generic in 2007. The
company  acquired  Alpharma Inc. the following year for about $1.3
billion to gain rights to Embeda, which was approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration in August 2009.  Tamper-Resistant  King is also developing Remoxy, a long-acting oxycodone
capsule with tamper-resistant features, with  Pain Therapeutics
Inc. , of San Mateo, California. The drug is designed to be a
safer alternative to OxyContin, made by Stamford, Connecticut-
based Purdue Pharma LP. King has said it plans to re-file Remoxy
to the FDA before the end of the year. The drug was delayed in
December 2008 when the agency asked for more data.  “Pfizer felt that they wanted to get in before Remoxy was
re-filed,” a catalyst that may spark King shares “to move up
pretty aggressively,” said  Ian Sanderson , an analyst at Cowen &
Co. in Boston, in a telephone interview today. “They are taking
advantage of price, although from a discounted cash flow
perspective, they’re paying fair value, maybe a little bit
below.”  The agreement includes a $110 million breakup fee King
would pay Pfizer if the deal is terminated under certain
circumstances.  Pain Therapeutics rose $1.16, or 19 percent, to $7.41 in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading as investors felt Pfizer
would be able to better promote Remoxy with doctors if it’s
approved. Remoxy may bring in peak annual sales of $500 million
and Embeda may have peak sales of $350 million, Sanderson said.  The global market for narcotic and non-narcotic pain
treatments was $22.4 billion in 2009, according to health
research firm IMS Health Inc. King is also developing a short-
acting oxycodone pill called Acurox with Palatine, Illinois-
based Acura Pharmaceuticals Inc. The drug failed to win an FDA
panel’s backing in April and plans to re-file it next year may
be tabled if Pfizer isn’t convinced the drug has value in a
market dominated by lower-cost generics, Sanderson said.  King Product Revenue  King, with $1.78 billion in revenue last year, also makes
the non-narcotic Flector pain patch, Thrombin-JMI to control
bleeding during surgery and Levoxyl for thyroid disorders. It
also has an animal health business with $359 million in sales
last year that Pfizer said will complement its own animal
division.  Pfizer said it plans to eliminate $200 million in costs
from King within three years, an estimate that most analysts
said was conservative.  “We view King as a solid asset at a somewhat elevated
price for Pfizer,” said  Joel Levington , managing director with
Brookfield Investment Management Inc., said in an email. “The
transaction should modestly help Pfizer’s growth profile in 2012
through 2013, and we do not see the deal having an impact on the
company’s strong creditworthiness.”  ‘Bolt-On’ Acquisitions  Pfizer plans to continue looking for “bolt on”
acquisitions in emerging markets, generic drugs and in targeted
disease areas, Chief Financial Officer  Frank D’Amelio  said on a
conference call with analysts. The company had $1.88 billion in
 cash  as of June.  “We will continue to be opportunistic regarding additional
business development opportunities going forward,” D’Amelio
said.  Pfizer’s financial adviser was J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
and its legal adviser was Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP.
Credit Suisse was King’s financial adviser and Covington &
Burling LLP was its legal adviser.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Shannon Pettypiece  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Larkin  at   clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 