-- Pfizer's Antidepressant Reboxetine Doesn't Quell Illness, Analysis Finds
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-10-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/pfizer-s-reboxetine-doesn-t-quell-depression-analysis-finds.html
Pfizer Inc. ’s antidepressant
reboxetine, sold for more than a decade in Europe, is no more
effective than a placebo at treating symptoms of depression,
according to an analysis that included unpublished studies.  After examining unpublished data on the drug, researchers
at the German  Institute for Quality and Efficiency  in Health
Care found that published studies overestimated reboxetine’s
benefit by 115 percent when compared to a dummy pill and 23
percent compared with other antidepressants, according to a
 report  today in the  British Medical Journal .  The variation between the results of the published and
unpublished studies shows that pharmaceutical companies need
stricter rules about disclosing the test results, the
researchers said. Drugmakers must reveal study findings for
products approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and
European regulators are considering a similar policy.  “There’s still a regulatory gap in Europe,” Dirk Eyding,
lead author of the analysis and the head of the clinical study
department at a unit of the  German Cancer Society , said
yesterday in a telephone interview. Citing the unpublished
studies, the researchers called reboxetine “an ineffective and
potentially harmful antidepressant.”  Pfizer spokesman  Chris Loder  said in an e-mailed statement
that it is reviewing the analysis in the British Medical Journal
and that reboxetine is “an effective treatment option to
clinicians for use in patients suffering from depressive
illness/major depression and for maintaining the clinical
improvement in patients initially responding to treatment."  The analysis looked at 13 studies of reboxetine involving
4,098 patients. Data on almost three-quarters of those patients
had never been published, the study said.  ‘Not Acceptable’  ‘‘It is not acceptable to be shown only positive data,’’
said Anthony Cleare, a psychiatrist and head of the Affective
Disorders Unit at the Maudsley Hospital and Institute of
Psychiatry at  King’s College London , in a statement.
‘‘Clinicians treating patients with depression absolutely need
the full picture in order to help their patients make the right
choices about the various treatments that are available.’’  Concern that positive studies were more likely to get
published in medical journals than negative ones led Congress in
2007 to pass a law creating a registry for clinical trials. The
U.S. law doesn’t require disclosure of data from studies
completed before Sept. 27, 2007, or on drugs rejected by
regulators.  German Panel Recommendation  Pfizer turned over the data after the German institute
issued a preliminary version of its report in June 2009 saying
reboxetine doesn’t benefit patients, citing the volume of
unpublished studies, the researchers said. The institute, a
nonprofit group that provides recommendations to the country’s
health insurance system, also funded today’s research. After
reviewing the report, a separate panel recommended the German
health system stop paying for the drug.  ‘‘Pfizer discloses the results of its clinical trials to
regulatory authorities all around the world,” Loder said in the
statement. “These regulatory authorities carefully balance the
risks and benefits of each medication, and reflect all important
safety and efficacy information in the approved product
labeling. ”  Reboxetine has been sold since 1997 in Germany, the U.K.
and other European Union countries under the brand names
Edronax, Norebox, Davedax and Vestra, the researchers said. U.S.
regulators refused to approve the treatment in 2001.  The drug works differently than most antidepressants
because it only blocks the reabsorption of the chemical
norepinephrine, while other drugs target serotonin. Reboxetine
was developed by Pharmacia Corp., which Pfizer  acquired  in 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shannon Pettypiece  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  