-- Philippine August Exports Rise More Than Forecast, Weathering Peso's Gain
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2010-10-12T02:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/philippine-august-exports-rise-more-than-forecast-weathering-peso-s-gain.html
Philippine  exports  increased for a
10th straight month as demand for the nation’s semiconductors
and electronics weathered slower global growth and a
strengthening peso.  Overseas sales rose 36.6 percent in August from a year
earlier to $4.7 billion, after gaining 35.9 percent in July, the
National Statistics Office said in Manila today. That compares
with the median forecast of 30.1 percent growth in a Bloomberg
News  survey  of 10 economists.  Asia’s recovery from last year’s global recession has
boosted sales at chipmakers including  Texas Instruments Inc .’s
Philippine unit. The nation’s exports have grown even as the
peso has risen 5.9 percent against the dollar in the past three
months, the region’s third-biggest advance outside Japan.  Overseas shipments remain strong partly because the
proportion absorbed by Asia continues to increase,  Emilio Neri ,
an economist at Bank of the Philippine Islands in Manila, said
before the report. “Since the region remains fairly vibrant
compared to other parts of the world, there’s still some
capacity to absorb our sales abroad,” he said.  Electronics sales, which comprise more than half of
Philippine exports, rose 45.3 percent in August, today’s report
showed. Overseas shipments account for about a third of the $160
billion economy.  The Asian Development Bank last month raised its 2010
economic growth forecast for Asia, excluding Japan, to 8.2
percent from an April estimate of 7.5 percent.  The organization also said governments should sustain the
expansion by refraining from tightening fiscal and monetary
policies “too quickly.”  “While there is still resilience in export numbers,
they’re slowing down” across the region, said  Song Seng-Wun , an
economist at CIMB Research Pte in Singapore. “We don’t know how
much it will slow down; a lot of it really depends on how demand
in the U.S. and other developed economies can hold up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Max Estayo  in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  