-- Philippine Economic Growth May Have Exceeded 7% Last Quarter, Beltran Says
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2010-10-12T09:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/philippine-economic-growth-may-have-exceeded-7-last-quarter-beltran-says.html
The Philippine economy may have
expanded more than 7 percent last quarter and full-year growth
will likely beat the government’s 6 percent target as investor
confidence improves, Finance Undersecretary  Gil Beltran  said.  “All indicators are moving in the right direction and this
is a very rare occasion,” Beltran told reporters in Manila
today, citing declining borrowing costs, easing inflation, a
rebound in exports and an appreciating peso. The government’s
cost of borrowing based on five-year bonds fell to the lowest
level since at least 1996 in today’s auction, according to
official data.  Philippine  exports  increased for a 10th straight month as
demand for the nation’s semiconductors and electronics weathered
slower global growth and a strengthening peso, a report showed
earlier today. Overseas sales rose 36.6 percent in August from a
year earlier, more than the median forecast of 30.1 percent
growth in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists.  Economic expansion accelerated to a three-year high of 7.9
percent in the second quarter as state and consumer spending
rose. The government is counting on private investment in toll
roads, commuter railways and airports to boost growth as
President  Benigno Aquino  aims to increase gross domestic product
by 7 percent to 8 percent annually from 2011.  “We are quite in an ideal situation where there is growth,
 inflation  is moderate or controlled and the peso’s value is not
subject to very wide fluctuations,” Aquino told reporters in
Manila today.  The central bank is taking steps to ensure gains in the
peso won’t hurt exporters and overseas workers, Aquino said,
adding that the monetary authority is “on top of the
situation.”  The peso closed at 43.655 per dollar in Manila today,
little changed from yesterday. It touched a two-year high of
43.302 on Oct. 7.  The government will stick to this year’s budget deficit
ceiling of 325 billion pesos ($7 billion), Beltran said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecilia Yap  in Manila at   cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Guinto  in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Evans at   revans6@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  