-- Philadelphia, Chicago and Boston Are University Study's Worst-Off Pensions
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-10-12T19:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/philadelphia-chicago-and-boston-are-university-study-s-worst-off-pensions.html
Philadelphia  will run out of money
by 2015 to pay pension obligations with existing assets, and
Chicago and Boston by 2019, a study by economists at
Northwestern University and the University of Rochester
forecasts.  The report, “The Crisis in Local Government Pensions in
the United States,” warns that mounting  liabilities  threaten
“the ability of state and local governments to operate.”  The study examines 77 of the largest city and county
defined pension plans, covering 2 million employees and
retirees, roughly two-thirds of the municipal workers in such
plans. The estimated liability of all municipal retirement funds
is $574 billion, according to economists  Joshua Rauh  of the
Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University and
Robert Novy-Marx of the University of Rochester.  Chicago residents face the highest individual burden for
pension liabilities from seven municipal retirement plans,
amounting to almost $42,000 per household. New York City
residents face the second-highest per-household burden, just
under $39,000.  These amounts are in addition to the estimated $3 trillion
in unfunded liabilities that taxpayers will shoulder from state
retirement systems, which Rauh and Novy-Marx examined in a 2009
report.  Urban Concentration  “The fact that there is such a large burden of public
employee pensions concentrated in urban metropolitan areas
threatens the long-run economic viability of these cities, as
residents can potentially move elsewhere to escape the
situation,” wrote Rauh and Novy-Marx.  Some cities may have plans to replenish funds, the
professors wrote. “Such plans are often abandoned in the face
of a fiscal squeeze,” they said.  The combined per-household liability for state and
municipal pension underfunding for Chicago homeowners would
total $71,000, or about $76 billion total, the report said.  The average household obligation for unfunded state and
local pension debt is $41,165, the study said.  More than 40 percent of the retirees in the study are under
age 64, and the average annuity is highest for the 55-to-59 age
group -- more than $38,000.  ‘Day of Reckoning’  Philadelphia will be the first to run out of money from
existing assets. Rauh said the “day of reckoning” for that
city and others may arrive sooner if pension funds don’t earn
the anticipated 8 percent return on equity that most funds hope
for.  Mayor  Michael Nutter  said last month that he plans to end
the city’s defined benefit retirement system, which promises a
set level of pension payments to retiring employees based on
their pay and length of time on the job.  “We’re the last bastion of defined-benefit plans, which
are unsustainable,” Nutter said of government systems at the
Bloomberg Cities & Debt Briefing in New York. “Pensions are the
fastest growing part of our budget.”  Hiding the Bill  Government pension accounting requirements effectively
obscure the true costs of pension promises, Rauh said. The
combination of underfunding and poor investment returns presents
a growing financial threat, he said.  The study calculates that by 2015, Philadelphia’s expected
pension-benefit payments will compose 19 percent of the city’s
anticipated revenue. In Boston, benefits will consume 27 percent
of 2019 revenue. And in Chicago, promises will gobble up 53
percent in 2019.  If all other spending were shut down, the report said,
Chicago would have to dedicate about eight years of tax revenue
just to cover pension promises.  Six large cities are listed as most vulnerable --
Philadelphia;  Boston ; Chicago;  Cincinnati ; Jacksonville,
Florida; and St. Paul, Minnesota -- because they are projected
to run out of money from existing assets no later than 2020.
Another 36 cities and counties are projected to be in similar
trouble by 2030.  As the financial problems deepen, political pressure will
build for a government bailout, first with cities going to
states for help, followed by states going to Washington, Rauh
predicted.  “Without fundamental reform of the compensation systems
that these state and local governments are using, we are headed
to a debt crisis of some kind for some subset of U.S. state and
local governments, on a five to 10 year horizon,” Rauh, an
associate professor of finance at Kellogg, said in an interview.  States will “cease to be able to function” because the
accumulation of debt will prevent some of them from borrowing
money, Rauh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  