-- Pilots Flying Over Disasters Make Passengers Cry: Mike Di Paola
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2010-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/pilots-fly-over-environmental-horrors-make-passengers-cry-mike-di-paola.html
After waiting out a clamorous
thunderstorm at the Fairhope, Alabama, airport, the Cessna
juddered through lingering clouds and turbulence over the Gulf
of Mexico on the 104-mile flight to  BP  Plc’s sunken oil rig.  The sky was gray and I was green.  Then the astounding view from 3,000 feet took my mind off
the plane’s sickening motion. It was 90 days after the oil
disaster began on April 21. Fingerlike tentacles of glistening
oil covered the surface of the sea, stretching to the horizon.
We could smell the slick.  “Flying is the most useful educational tool I know of when
it comes to environmental issues,” said pilot Tom Hutchings,
who was as awed at the sight as I was. “Until you go up in the
air and see things in the context of the whole place, you really
don’t get it.”  (Even airplane views are limited, though. According to a
University of Georgia study, 79 percent of the 200 million
gallons of spilled oil is still underwater and will be for
years.)  Hutchings is one of 37 volunteer pilots who donate their
time and aircraft to  SouthWings , a nonprofit conservation group
that arranges flights all over southeastern U.S. for media,
policy makers and community leaders. Aerial views expose the
eye-popping scale of environmental catastrophes in ways that
other perspectives cannot.  “When we get the news and the facts out on a situation,
then people can act and make an informed decision,” said
Hutchings, an environmental consultant when he isn’t flying.
“Otherwise you’re just listening to the major media outlets,
and we all know how much information a sound bite has.”  ‘People Cry’  SouthWings pilots also usually spring for fuel. Hutchings’s
Cessna 182 burned about $150 each time he flew to the rig and
back, a trip he has made more than 25 times.  Susan Lapis, a pilot with SouthWings since its beginnings
in 1996, has found that passengers can get emotional when they
see how much damage human development has wrought.  “People cry in my airplane all the time,” she says.
“Especially in West Virginia.” Last year she gave me a bird’s-
eye view of the coal-mining operations around Charleston, where
the devastation, a growing wasteland in the middle of otherwise
verdant hills, is particularly jarring.  SouthWings offered to fly senate candidates now vying for
the late  Robert C. Byrd ’s vacated seat over the mine sites, but
it had no takers in advance of the state’s Aug. 28 primary.
That’s too bad, because if policymakers ever grasped the true
scope of the damage caused by the type of mining called
mountaintop removal in this richly green state, it’s doubtful
the practice would continue.  Positive Results  Occasionally pilots do see positive results of their work.
Mark Miller, an organizer for the  Southern Appalachian Forest
Coalition , flew with Lapis several times over the Shenandoah
Mountains while spearheading the effort to make thousands of
acres there Wilderness Areas, the most protective designation
for federal lands and the most difficult to get passed.  Lapis was listening to the radio in March 2009 when the
 Virginia Ridge and Valley Act  became law.  “That boy went to Congress and got his Wilderness Area,”
says Lapis. “When I heard the news on the radio, I wept.”  A cynic might wonder, how is it that an environmental group
-- which goes to great heights to expose the consequences of
coal or oil consumption -- can make all these gas-guzzling
Cessna flights with a clean, green conscience?  “It is something that comes up,” says SouthWings
executive director Hume Davenport. “We’re burning fossil fuel
while decrying the industries that produce it. We could be
targeted as hypocrites.”  Carbon Offsets  Now SouthWings has effectively quashed that charge. Last
year it calculated the emissions produced by all of its flights,
then neutralized them by buying 45 tons of carbon offsets, an
investment in projects that reduce the equivalent in carbon
dioxide pollution elsewhere. This year they plan to go further
and offset emissions generated by their office operations and
ground travel.  I have seen some incredible -- and awful -- sights from the
sky, thanks to SouthWings and its dedicated pilots. Every
policymaker should get up there to see the big picture.  ( Mike Di Paola  writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 