-- Poland Picks Three for Final Talks to Buy Enea Power Utility
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-12T14:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/poland-picks-three-for-final-talks-to-buy-enea-power-utility.html
Poland picked three bidders for
final talks on the sale of a 51 percent stake in  Enea SA , the
country’s third-largest utility, as it seeks to raise cash to
fund a widening budget deficit.  The Treasury Ministry didn’t name the bidders in a
statement on its website.  GDF Suez SA  of France is among the
bidders selected for final talks, a person close to the
transaction said by phone today.  The ministry also accepted bids from  Electricite de France
SA  and Poland’s Kulczyk Holding SA, while rejecting the offer
from Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding AS of the Czech Republic,
Parkiet reported on its  website . All investors offered more than
24 zloty a share, valuing the stake at more than 5.4 billion
zloty ($1.9 billion), according to the newspaper.  Enea shares  slipped  0.5 percent to 23.1 zloty at the 4:30
p.m. close in Warsaw, after climbing to a one-year high
yesterday. The bourse’s benchmark WIG20 Index gained 0.1 percent
today.  The ministry plans to close the transaction, set to be the
biggest sale of state assets to a single investor this year,
before the end of December,  Maciej Wewior , a spokesman for the
ministry, said by phone today, declining to name the bidders.  The sale of Poznan, Poland-based Enea is part of a plan to
raise 25 billion zloty to help fund the budget deficit and limit
borrowing. Poland this year sold stakes in the country’s biggest
insurance, energy, copper and phone companies and will offer a
majority stake in the Warsaw Stock Exchange, its sole stock
market operator, later this month.  Credit Suisse Securities Europe Ltd. and Rothschild Polska
Sp. z o.o. are advising the government on Enea’s sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  