-- Posco Lowers 2010 Profit Forecast After Costs Erode Earnings
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2010-10-12T09:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/posco-cuts-2010-profit-forecast-by-7-after-commodity-costs-erode-earnings.html
Posco , the world’s third-largest
steelmaker, cut its full-year profit forecast by 7 percent after
reporting the first decline in earnings in four quarters.  Operating profit will probably be 5.2 trillion won ($4.6
billion) for the 12 months ending Dec. 31, compared with its
earlier forecast of 5.6 trillion won, the Pohang, South Korea-
based company said today in an e-mailed statement. Sales may
reach 32.9 trillion won, compared with a previous estimate of
33.5 trillion won.  Posco, which derives about 70 percent of sales from the
 domestic market , boosted prices by as much as 32 percent this
year to offset higher costs of iron ore and coal. Earnings may
deteriorate further this quarter, as the use of higher-priced
materials will increase, before a rebound in the first quarter
next year, according to brokerages including Eugene Investment &
Securities Co. and Hana Daetoo Securities Co.  “There isn’t much reason to expect a strong recovery in
global demand, while supplies could rather increase once
industry restructuring in China wraps up and survivors boost
output,” said  Chang In Whan , president of Seoul-based KTB Asset
Management Co., which handles the equivalent of $9.7 billion.
“Steel prices won’t be as strong as we anticipate. Posco shares
would trade in a narrow range.”  Posco , Asia’s biggest steelmaker by market value, declined
2.3 percent to close at 519,000 won today in Seoul trading. The
local benchmark  Kospi  index fell 1.2 percent. The announcement
came after the stock market closed.  Third-Quarter Profit  Third-quarter  net income  dropped to 1.04 trillion won in
the three months ended Sept. 30 from 1.14 trillion won a year
earlier, the company said today. That fell short of the 1.13
trillion won average of 14  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales climbed 24 percent to 8.52 trillion won.  “Sales grew, but operating profit dropped from the
previous quarter because of a sharp gain in raw material
costs,” Posco President Choi Jong Tae told investors today.
“Profit may not increase in the fourth quarter because higher-
priced raw materials will be used in the period.”  Operating profit increased to 1.11 trillion won in the
third quarter from 1.02 trillion won a year earlier, Posco said.
That is below the 1.23 trillion won average of 15 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg and smaller than second-quarter
operating profit of 1.84 trillion won.  Higher Costs  Fourth-quarter operating profit may decline to 1.07
trillion won, according to the average of 14 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Posco today cut its forecast for full-
year output to 33.7 million tons from previously projected 34.4
million tons.  Posco  has fallen 16 percent this year, underperforming an
11 percent advance in the Kospi, on concern steelmakers may be
unable to pass on increased costs to customers.  The Korean mill may be able to report more than 1 trillion
won in operating profit in the first quarter of next year if
prices of raw materials and steel products remain unchanged,
Posco’s Choi said. Posco, which left local prices unchanged in
the fourth quarter, expects to increase output and product sales
next year on expanded capacity, he said. Steel prices are
unlikely to fall next year, he said.  Ore Contracts  Lower fourth-quarter contract prices of raw materials will
help reduce costs in the first quarter, Choi said. The company
has agreed to a drop of 10 percent to 13 percent in iron ore
prices for the fourth quarter, compared with the third quarter.  ArcelorMittal , the world’s largest steelmaker, said Oct. 1
it expects the price of iron ore to decline as more supply comes
on stream.  Posco’s earnings growth may accelerate in the first half of
next year as input costs for raw material will decline and
reduced output in China in the aftermath of power restrictions
should boost Chinese steel prices,  Chris M. Kim , an analyst with
Samsung Securities Co., wrote in an Oct. 6 report.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , China’s biggest publicly traded
steelmaker, said on Oct. 10 profit for the first nine months may
have risen between 170 percent and 190 percent from a year ago,
more than forecast, on higher-than-expected steel prices.  Power restrictions in China may trim steel supply in the
nation by 9.6 percent for the rest of the nation, adding to
reduction from the closures of obsolete plants, according to
Mysteel Research Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sungwoo Park  in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  