-- Rand Declines After China Banking Curbs Revive Economic Slowdown Concerns
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-12T15:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/rand-weakens-after-china-banking-curbs-revive-concern-of-economic-slowdown.html
The rand declined the most in more
than a week against the dollar after reports that China acted to
curb bank lending raised concern a slowdown in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy will hurt its trading partners.  South Africa’s currency weakened as much as 1.4 percent to
6.9506 per dollar, the steepest intraday slide since Oct. 4,
before trading 0.4 percent weaker at 6.8861 by 5:33 p.m. in
Johannesburg, from a previous close of 6.8575.  China’s central bank temporarily raised reserve
requirements at six lenders by half a percentage point for two
months, three people with knowledge of the matter said. The
measures are the latest attempt by the central bank to soak up
excess cash following record credit expansion that fuelled
inflation and raised concern asset bubbles might be forming.  “As the news raised expectations that China might cool its
economy, the markets subsided and the rand depreciated,”
 Standard Bank Group Ltd.  analysts led by  Michael Keenan  in
Johannesburg, wrote in a client note today.  Asia has surpassed Europe as South Africa’s biggest export
destination, accounting for about a third of the nation’s
international sales, Revenue Service  data show . That compares
with 27 percent for Europe, according to the data.  South Africa’s currency also weakened after a government
report showed  manufacturing  growth unexpectedly slowed to an
annual 5.3 percent in August as the rand’s 36 percent rally this
year curbed exports. Factory output, which accounts for about 15
percent of the economy, dropped from a revised 7.2 percent in
July, Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said today.  The median estimate of nine economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg had predicted an 8.6 percent expansion in output.  Government bonds rose for a second day, with the benchmark
13.5 percent security due September 2015 climbing 21 cents to
125.50 rand. The yield declined almost 5 basis points to 7.24
percent. A basis point is equal to 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  