-- Trapped Miners to Face Spotlight as Publishers, Filmmakers Prepare Offers
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s ,   J e s s i c a   B r i c e   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-12T15:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/trapped-miners-to-face-spotlight-as-publishers-filmmakers-prepare-offers.html
Chile’s 33 trapped miners are
preparing to swap their underground shelter for the
international spotlight as offers from media and moviemakers are
set to match their current annual wages.  Chile’s  government  has trained the men on handling the
media frenzy after they’re pulled out from today. Classes were
conducted over phone lines threaded through drill holes almost
half a mile underground where they’ve been stranded since Aug. 5
when a tunnel caved in at the San Jose copper and gold mine.  Family members camping out in the Atacama desert have
obtained lawyers and received book and film offers, said Arnoldo
Plaza Vega, 46, whose cousin is among the men trapped inside the
mine. For some, life after the rescue may be difficult to
handle, said Ana Maria Aron, who heads a post-traumatic stress
unit at Chile’s  Catholic University .  “It’s hard to grasp how strange it is to come out of a
black hole in the ground for weeks or months into this sort of
media frenzy,” said  Jeff Goodell , whose book about nine
Pennsylvania miners trapped for 77 hours was a New York Times
bestseller. “The shock of coming into this media spotlight is
almost bigger than the shock of being trapped underground.”  Already, the men have been invited to make appearances in
Spain, England and Greece, and mining entrepreneur Leonardo
Farkas appeared on Chilean television promising each of the
miners 5 million pesos ($10,400). Their net annual wages range
from 3.8 million pesos to 9 million pesos, said Darinka Darce, a
friend of trapped miner Jimmy Sanchez’s family.  Some families are in talks for exclusive rights to post-
rescue interviews, Plaza said.  $20,000 Offers  “I’ve heard of some offers for around $20,000 for the
first television interview,” he said.  The miners reached a verbal agreement as a group about what
they will make public and what will remain private, Plaza said.
They plan to legalize the agreement before a notary, he said.  “They are a unified group,” Plaza said. “They were
together for two months below and they’ll be together afterward.
They will stick together.”  Chilean officials plan to begin extracting the miners later
today after drills reached them three days ago, Mining Minister
 Laurence Golborne  told reporters at the mine site. Workers
finished installing a metal casing yesterday along less than
one-sixth of the 623-meter (2,040-foot) rescue shaft.  In a bid to prepare the men for their newfound fame,
Alejandro Pino, the site safety supervisor, gave the miners six
hours of classes on how to talk to the media.  Mock Interviews  “We did mock interviews,” Pino told reporters. “We
talked about facial expressions and the way you can communicate
with your hands and your shoulders.”  The television rights to the miners’ story could be worth
as much as $10,000 up front and $50,000 to $100,000 at the time
of production, said Scott Manville, founder of TVFilmRights.com,
an online marketplace for buying and selling the rights to real-
life stories. The movie rights could eventually come with a
“purchase price” of $100,000 to $500,000, Manville said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  “Their lives won’t be the same after this,” Finance
Minister  Felipe Larrain  said Oct. 8 in an interview from
Washington. “They’ll be famous guys.”  The practice of authors and directors mining real-life
tragedies and events isn’t new. The 1972 story of the Uruguayan
rugby team stranded in the Andes Mountains for 72 days after a
plane crash spawned books, documentaries and a film starring
Ethan Hawke. The July 2002 rescue of nine Pennsylvania coal
miners was the basis for  Goodell’s book , “Our Story: 77 Hours
That Tested Our Friendship and Our Faith.”  ‘Dizzy’  While adjusting to the sudden fame can be tough, survivors
sometimes find it just as hard to cope when the spotlight is
eventually turned off, said Goodell, who followed up with the
Pennsylvania miners a few years after the rescue and found that
many of them suffered from post-traumatic stress.  “They’ll be famous of course; there will be books and
movies, but they shouldn’t get dizzy thinking that’s the way
their lives will always be,” said Ramon Sabella, one of the
survivors of the 1972 plane crash in the Andes. “Fame is never
permanent,” Sabella, who has visited the mine site in Chile and
offered advice, said in a telephone interview from Paraguay.  For now, family members such as Norma Laques, the mother of
the youngest miner, 19-year-old Jimmy Sanchez, say they are
focusing on the coming rescue.  “We want to get Jimmy out of here,” Laques said. “We
want to take him someplace calm so that he can rest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
 Jessica Brice  in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net 
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 Rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  