-- RBC Capital Tops Brendan Wood Analyst Survey, Ending BMO's 29-Year Streak
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-10-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/rbc-capital-tops-brendan-wood-analyst-survey-ends-bmo-streak.html
RBC Capital Markets ranks first for
equity research in Canada, ending a 29-year streak for BMO
Capital Markets in an annual survey by Brendan Wood
International.  The investment-banking arm of  Royal Bank of Canada  had the
top-ranked research department this year, according to the poll
by Brendan Wood, a Toronto-based research and consulting firm.
BMO Capital, a unit of Bank of Montreal, ranked second, followed
by TD Newcrest, CIBC World Markets and Scotia Capital.  “We’ve had the conviction that we have built the best
research team in the country,” said  Richard Talbot , 46, co-head
of global research for RBC Capital Markets in Toronto. “The
report adds validation to that, and we’re thrilled.”  The survey of 258 money managers and buy-side analysts was
conducted during the 12 months that ended Sept. 1, Brendan Wood
said. So-called TopGun analysts are chosen on the basis of
whether survey participants would pay for their research, as
well as analysts’ investment ideas, quality of analysis and
knowledge of their sector. RBC also had the most TopGun research
teams this year, followed by BMO Capital.  “The Brendan Wood rankings are very well followed,” said
 James Lorimer , a managing director in Toronto with Ludwig
Financial Recruitment. “When we’re talking to research
directors about candidates, they follow Brendan Wood rankings
pretty closely to see who are the top-ranked guys.”  RBC Capital analysts cover about 1,250 companies worldwide,
compared with 775 five years ago, Talbot said.  “We’ve been on a relentless campaign over the last three
or four years to rebuild the research product at RBC,” he said.  U.S. Coverage  RBC’s research has improved because of increased coverage
south of the Canadian border, said  Mike Abramsky , a top-ranked
software and services analyst who covers companies such as
 Research In Motion Ltd.  and Apple Inc.  “I think RBC as a platform has improved overall,” said
Abramsky, 53. “We have more leverage of research across the
platform, such as our cooperative work with the U.S. analysts”
in areas such as the smartphone sector.  Andre-Philippe Hardy , who came to RBC in 2007 from Merrill
Lynch, is the top-ranked bank analyst for the first time. The
Toronto-based analyst said he thinks the ranking is the result
of his experience, his lengthy research reports, and his three
associates.  “I think the right formula is to be constantly in touch
with clients, to write value-added research, and not being
afraid to be outside of consensus,” Hardy, 33, said in a
telephone interview.  Banks Over Insurers  Hardy has recommended favoring Canadian lenders including
Toronto-Dominion Bank and Bank of Montreal over life insurers.
The 10-company  S&P/TSX Banks Index  climbed almost 7 percent this
year, compared with a 21 percent drop for the six-company
 S&P/TSX Life & Health Insurance Index .  BMO Capital analyst  Randy Ollenberger  was recognized as the
No. 1 TopGun analyst for the oil-and-gas large cap category.  “It primarily means that the clients that are voting in
this survey put value in the service that I and our oil-and-gas
team are providing them,” Ollenberger, 48, said in a telephone
interview from Calgary.  Ollenberger, who has been named a TopGun analyst before,
credits the work of his nine-member group in Calgary and Denver
for producing “big picture, macro-themed pieces” that resonate
with clients in helping to win the accolades.  Before the latest survey, BMO Capital Markets ranked first
for overall research in the Brendan Wood International survey
since 1981, according to marketing material  published  earlier
this year by the Toronto-based bank.  The bank ranked first this year for research quality and
had the highest “reputational franchise score,” said  Mike Miller , head of equity products and research for BMO Capital
Markets, in an e-mailed statement.  Brendan Wood provides advisory services to investment
banks, corporations and TopGun professionals in global markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  