-- Royal Bank Asks London Judge to Reverse Changes to Liverpool Club's Board
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-12T17:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/rbs-asks-judge-to-reverse-changes-to-liverpool-board-that-could-block-sale.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
asked a London judge to reverse changes to Liverpool’s board
that would block the soccer club’s planned sale to New England
Sports Ventures LLC for 300 million pounds ($474 million).  Owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  have sought to halt the
sale of Britain’s most successful team, saying the price is too
low. Fans have protested their ownership and RBS says the
Americans breached their contract when they tried to replace
independent board members who approved the sale.  The case “concerns what is an admitted breach of contract
by Mr. Hicks and Mr. Gillett” done to “frustrate the sale
process,” RBS lawyer  Richard Snowden  said at the High Court in
London today.  The move showed “breathtaking arrogance,” he said.  RBS is trying to push through an offer from the New England
group controlled by Boston Red Sox owners  John W. Henry  and  Tom Werner . Liverpool, which has won 18 domestic titles and five
European Cups, has had its worst start in more than 50 years.
The team is in 18th place and threatened with relegation.  RBS, which required Hicks and Gillett to add independent
board members when they last refinanced debt, brought the suit.
The Edinburgh-based bank wants the court to issue an injunction
forcing the men to abide by the contract and restore a “clearly
functioning” board that can act in the best interest of
creditors, Snowden said.  Judge’s Ruling  Justice  Christopher Floyd  is scheduled to give his judgment
at 10 a.m. tomorrow.  Paul Girolami , the lawyer representing Hicks and Gillett,
told the court his clients weren’t trying to put a “spanner in
the works” and that the board hadn’t properly considered other
offers. Hicks and Gillett were improperly sidelined from the
sale negotiations, Girolami said.  Hicks and Gillett, who bought the team in 2007, have to
repay a 237 million-pound loan as well as costs associated with
an April 30 refinancing that has seen the debt balloon by 40
million pounds. They may lose 140 million pounds if the proposed
deal goes through, club chairman  Martin Broughton  has said.  Singapore billionaire Peter Lim today offered to buy the
team for 320 million pounds, trumping the NESV offer, and said
he would provide another 40 million pounds to purchase new
players.  The case is: The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v. Thomas O
Hicks, George N Gillett, KOP Football (Cayman) Limited, KOP
Football (Holdings) Limited, KOP Football Limited; HC10C03206;
High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 