-- RBS Issues First Indonesian Equity-Linked Structured Products in Europe
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-10-12T12:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/rbs-issues-first-indonesian-linked-structured-notes-in-europe.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
issued Europe’s first exchange-traded structured notes linked to
Indonesian stocks, allowing investors to tap the country’s
soaring equity market.  Investors have the choice of 13 different products that
track the MSCI Indonesia equity index, which has surged 33
percent this year, according to RBS. The so-called discount and
bonus notes are listed on Scoach, the structured products
trading platform run by Deutsche Boerse AG and Switzerland’s SWX
Group. RBS also listed notes tied to Chilean and Indian stocks.  Investors pumped more than $6 billion into emerging market
equity funds last week, the most since 2007 as growth in
developed nations slows, according to research firm EPFR Global.
Banks worldwide sold a record 16.5 trillion rupiah ($1.8
billion) of Indonesian credit-linked notes this year, triple
last year’s total, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors will have to acknowledge that the emerging
markets are gaining weight in the global economy,” said  Kemal Bagci , a Frankfurt-based director in RBS’s equity derivatives
unit that helped create the notes. “We have seen constant
demand for these countries this year.”  RBS’s issue includes six Indonesian discount certificates,
which contain embedded derivatives that allow banks to offer
investors assets at below-market prices, though cap gains at a
pre-set level.  One of the euro-denominated certificates lets investors buy
the  MSCI Indonesia index  at $657.5 with a cap of $700. The
benchmark was at 849.23 yesterday.  Bonus Certificates  The Edinburgh-based bank also issued seven bonus
certificates, which pay a premium as long as the MSCI Indonesia
index doesn’t drop below a set level. If the benchmark falls
below the barrier, the investor only receives money equal to the
market value of the index.  RBS also issued its first structured certificates on a
 Chilean  stocks, which increased 51 percent in the past 12
months, and Indian  equities , which are up 35 percent.  RBS hopes to sell about 60 million euros ($55.7 million) of
the Indonesian, Chilean and Indian notes in total, Bagci said.
The euro-denominated securities have a 50 basis-point bid-to-
offer spread in secondary market trading, according to RBS. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The bank plans to issue this year structured notes on
 Bangladesh ,  Colombia ,  Nigeria  and  Sri Lanka  stocks after
offering tracker notes based on the countries’ MSCI indexes last
week, Bagci said.  Structured notes are bank-issued securities that combine
bonds and derivatives, contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities. Banks earn fees from
issuing structured products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  