-- Real Estate `Trophy' Prices Up 19% in Flat Market: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-10-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/real-estate-trophy-prices-up-19-in-flat-market-chart-of-the-day.html
Commercial property investors are
focusing on the best buildings in major U.S. markets, driving up
prices in six cities as the rest of the country hovers near the
post-crash bottom, according to the MIT Center for Real Estate.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows prices for “trophy” commercial
properties are up 19 percent since bottoming in New York,
Washington, San Francisco, Boston, Los Angeles and Chicago. The
Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index tracking the entire
U.S. has gained 1 percent from a seven-year low in October 2009.  Investors are competing for properties seen as “relatively
safe cash cows,” said  David Geltner , director of research at
the MIT Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and creator of the
six-city index. Last week, Boston Properties Inc. agreed to buy
Boston’s John Hancock Tower, New England’s tallest building, for
about 40 percent more than what the sellers paid a year ago.  “There’s a lot of money out there that wants to invest in
good, solid, safe, cash-yielding inflation-protecting
investments, and there are not that many properties on the
market,” said Geltner. “Demand is really focused because it’s
so risk-averse. They really want just these blue-ribbon cities
and these blue-ribbon properties.”  Geltner’s index, compiled with data from New York-based
research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc., tracks each sale in
the six cities where the previous price exceeded $10 million. It
excludes properties held less than 18 months; some that are part
of portfolio deals; and so-called troubled assets that are sold
by lenders, or sold by owners under pressure, as defined by Real
Capital. It includes sales in each city’s suburbs.  The MIT and Moody’s indexes both track office, retail,
industrial and apartment properties. The data are through July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  