-- Treasury Bonds Fall a Third Day as Fed Seen Buying Shorter-Maturity Debt
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-10-12T21:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/treasuries-fall-after-32-billion-three-year-note-sale-draws-weaker-demand.html
Treasury  30-year bonds fell for a
third day on speculation the Federal Reserve will buy shorter-
maturity debt and as the government prepared to sell $13 billion
of the securities this week.  Government debt initially pared losses after minutes of the
Fed’s last meeting showed policy makers focused on purchases of
Treasuries, a move called quantitative easing, and boosting
inflation expectations to add economic stimulus. Yields had
climbed after the U.S. sold $32 billion of three-year notes,
drawing the weakest demand since February.  “Where does the Fed have capacity to buy? The 6- to 10-
year sector, so that’s where they are going to do the bulk of
their purchases when they ultimately do a second round of
quantitative easing,” said  Ira Jersey , an interest-rate
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 18 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Treasury. “The market certainly
doesn’t think that” 30-year bonds will be purchased, he said.  The yield on the  30-year bond  rose seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 3.82 percent at 5:01 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.875 percent security
due in August 2040 fell 1 9/32, or $12.81 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 31/32. Two-year  note yields  increased two basis
points, breaking a string of eight daily losses, to 0.36 percent
after earlier reaching a record-low 0.327 percent.  Ten-year yields  increased four basis points to 2.43
percent. They have dropped 14 basis points since the Fed said
Sept. 21 it was willing to ease monetary policy further.  Inflation Expectations  “The market assumed that quantitative easing was a done
deal,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income portfolio manager in
Salem, Massachusetts, at Cabot Money Management, which manages
$500 million. “This confirms it was a done deal, but much of it
was already priced in, so we’re seeing some selling.”  Uncertainty in the market was increased by the discussion
in the Sept. 21 Fed meeting minutes released today of raising
inflation expectations in such ways as being more explicit about
a desired rate of inflation or setting a price-level target,
said  Michael Moran , chief economist at Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. in New York.  “People were counting on QE, and I think this view might
mean a smaller step than the market was expecting,” Moran said.
“Whatever the outcome, there will be much more uncertainty from
here until the meeting.”  Policy makers “wanted to consider further the most
effective framework for calibrating and communicating any
additional steps to provide such stimulus,” the central bank
said in the minutes. Treasuries rose earlier on speculation the
minutes would show the Fed was set to step up buys of assets.  Supply Focus  “From here the market will focus its attention on supply
and go from there,” said  James Combias , New York-based head of
Treasury trading at primary dealer Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  Today’s three-year note auction, the first of three
offerings this week of $66 billion in notes and bonds, had a
bid-to-cover ratio of 2.95, the least since February.
The figure, which shows demand by comparing total bids with the
amount offered, was 3.21 at the previous sale and averaged 3.12
at the past 10 offerings.  The notes drew a record-low yield of 0.569 percent,
compared with the 0.562 percent average forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 7 primary dealers.  Details ‘Look Weak’  “The details of the auction do look weak,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in New York at primary
dealer BNP Paribas. “Treasury buyers are looking to buy what
the Fed buys right now, and that means more intermediate
Treasuries. Before the Fed makes its decision, there will
continue to be lots of uncertainty.”  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 29 percent of the three-year notes at
today’s sale, compared with 47.5 percent for the past 10 sales.
Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place their
bids directly with the Treasury, bought 11.9 percent, compared
with an average of 13.2 percent for the past 10 auctions.  Three-year notes have returned 5.1 percent this year,
compared with a 9.3 percent gain for the broader Treasury
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Today’s auction was the sixth consecutive three-year
offering in which the size was reduced. The government will sell
$21 billion of 10-year debt tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year
bonds on Oct. 14.  The 10-year note yield will increase to 2.65 percent in the
fourth quarter, according to the median forecast of 67 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey. The two-year note yield is expected
to rise to 0.6 percent, another survey showed.  The difference between yields on 30-year bonds and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities narrowed for the first time since
Sept. 30. The  break-even rate , a measure of inflation
expectations over the life of the maturity, slipped 0.02
percentage point to 2.35 percentage points after touching 2.2
percentage points, a 14 basis-point contraction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  