-- Treasuries Rally on Speculation Fed Minutes to Signal More Bond Purchases
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-10-12T16:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/treasuries-rally-on-speculation-fed-minutes-to-signal-more-bond-purchases.html
Treasuries gained, sending two-year
note yields to a record low, as traders speculated minutes of
the Federal Reserve’s September meeting will indicate policy
makers are preparing to step up debt purchases.  The 10-year  yield  was near the lowest level in 20 months
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said September job losses “put
the seal on” the case for the Fed to make bond buys, a move
known as quantitative easing. Today’s $32 billion sale of three-
year debt, the first of three auctions this week of $66 billion
of notes and bonds -- was poised to draw a record low yield.  “The prospect for more Fed buying is still the main driver
of the Treasury market,” said  Larry Milstein , managing director
in New York of government and agency debt trading at RW
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “This week all eyes will be on supply,
inflation data and the Fed minutes, which will give us a clue of
what to expect.”  The yield on the  10-year note  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.38 percent at 12:23 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in August 2020 rose 4/32, or $1.25 per
$1,000 face amount, to 102 4/32. The rate dropped to 2.33
percent on Oct. 8, the lowest level since January 2009.  Two-year yields touched the  lowest  ever, falling to 0.327
percent before trading little changed at 0.35 percent. They have
set or matched a record low every trading day this month. The
30-year  bond yield  was little changed at 3.75 percent.  Treasuries pared gains as stocks fluctuated. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  was down 0.1 percent after falling as much as
0.8 percent.  ‘Additional Accommodation’  Treasuries rallied on Sept. 21, when the central bank said
in a statement following the Federal Open Market Committee
meeting that it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation
if needed to support economic recovery and to return inflation,
over time, to levels consistent with its mandate.”  The Fed will probably announce about $500 billion of
purchases that will last through about the middle of next year
at a meeting next month,  Jan Hatzius , chief U.S. economist at
Goldman Sachs in New York, said to clients via e-mail. The firm
is one of 18 primary dealers that trade with the central bank.  A Labor Department report Oct. 8 showing 95,000 jobs
eliminated in September will prompt the central bank to buy
bonds, Hatzius wrote.  “Friday’s jobs numbers put the seal on a quantitative
easing announcement at the Nov. 2-3 FOMC meeting,” he wrote.  Break-Even Rate  The difference between yields on 30-year bonds and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities narrowed for the first time since
Sept. 30. The  break-even rate , a measure of inflation
expectations over the life of the maturity, slid 0.11 percentage
point to 2.23 percentage points. It touched a 15-month low of
1.84 percentage points on Aug. 25.  Janet Yellen , in her first public remarks as the Fed vice
chairman, said low interest rates may give firms the incentive
to engage in excessive risk-taking.  “It is conceivable that accommodative monetary policy
could provide tinder for a buildup of leverage and excessive
risk-taking in the financial system,” she said in a speech
yesterday in Denver.  The three-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 0.563
percent in pre-auction trading, which would be the least ever.
The  rate  was 0.79 percent at the previous sale of the securities
on Sept. 7.  “Heading into the auction, the bond market has the wind at
its back, with many believing equities are set up to stall and
others believing a second round of asset purchases by the Fed
will be announced,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist at
Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, wrote in a note to clients.  Bid-to-Cover  Investors bid for 3.21 times the amount of available debt
last month. The average bid-to-cover ratio for the past 10
auctions is 3.12. Indirect  bidders , which include foreign
central banks, bought 42.4 percent of the securities, versus the
10-sale average of 47.5 percent.  “The Fed is still keeping the market from selling anything
in the front end, which supports the three-year auction,” said
 Paul Horrmann , a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel
Securities Inc., an interdealer broker.  The U.S. will auction $21 billion of 10-year notes tomorrow
and $13 billion of 30-year bonds Oct. 14.  Reports this week are forecast in Bloomberg News surveys to
show producer and consumer prices remained benign in September,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The auctions and this week’s data “are mere speed bumps on
the road as we hurdle inexorably toward the Nov. 3 FOMC meeting
and a second round of large-scale asset purchases by the Fed,”
 William O’Donnell , head of U.S. government bond strategy at
primary dealer Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stamford,
Connecticut, wrote in a note to clients.  For investors in Japan coping with record-low rates, U.S.
debt is relatively  cheap . Ten-year Treasuries yield 1.51
percentage points more than similar-maturity Japanese government
bonds, up from 0.82 percentage point in December 2008.  Japan is poised to pass China as the largest U.S.  creditor 
for the first time since August 2008 as growing demand for U.S.
debt reduces borrowing costs for President  Barack Obama .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  