-- French Refineries, Reactors, Ports Hit by Strikes
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-12T08:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/refineries-nuclear-reactors-ports-disrupted-by-pension-reform-strikes.html
A nationwide strike by French
refinery, power and gas workers lowered crude processing rates
and cut power output while the possibility of fuel shortages
loomed as Marseille oil terminals remained blocked.  Workers at seven of the country’s 12 refineries voted to
strike today and others may follow, CGT union representative
 Charles Foulard  said by telephone. Deliveries to and from plants
on strike will be blocked and refining rates reduced, he said.  Total SA began halting the Donges refinery, the company’s
second biggest in France, according to spokesman  Michael Crochet-Vourey .  The walkout is affecting refineries owned by  Total , Ineos
Group Holding Plc and LyondellBasell Industries NV, according to
the CGT union.  Electricite de France SA ’s nuclear output dropped
by 5,000 megawatts today, CGT union spokeswoman  Marie-Claire Cailletaud  said.  French workers are demonstrating for the fourth time in
five weeks to oppose a plan to increase the retirement age to 62
from 60. A strike at Marseille’s oil terminals of Fos and Lavera
entered its 16th day as employees demand changes to the way a
2008 ports reform law will be implemented.  Gasoline  prices in the benchmark Rotterdam-Amsterdam-
Antwerp barge market advanced to five-month highs. Eurobob grade
traded at as much as $772 a metric ton yesterday, the highest
price since April 30. Total was the main buyer of premium
gasoline, which traded from $781 to $784 a ton, according to a
survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts pricing
window. That is up from $770 on Oct. 8.  ‘Comparable’  Labor action is affecting all of Total’s crude-processing
plants except Feyzin as well as two petrochemical sites, Foulard
said.  Between half and 80 percent of shift workers at Total
refineries are participating in the strike, a number that is
“comparable” to recent national strikes, Crochet-Vourey said.  Total began halting the crude-distillation unit at its La
Mede refinery two days ago because of a shortage of crude
supplies due to the port strike while  Feyzin  is operating at a
”minimal rate,” the company has said.  The French refiners’ organization Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres has said fuel supply problems for
consumers could start Oct. 18 because of the port strike, which
has cost crude processers “tens of millions of euros.”  Total, Exxon Mobil Corp., Ineos Group Holdings Plc and
LyondellBasell have plants in southeastern France that together
account for 31 percent of French refining capacity.  The Marseille docks have experienced stoppages in recent
years as unions have resisted efforts to transfer public-sector
jobs to private companies.  A 12-day strike at the oil hub in December 2008 cost
refineries 26 million euros ($36 million), including 15 million
euros related to vessel delays and 11 million euros in lost
revenue, UFIP estimated at the time. A strike at the oil
terminals in March 2007 lasted 17 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  