-- Regulators Could Seize Control of Failing Banks Under EU Plan
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-10-12T13:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/regulators-could-seize-control-of-failing-banks-under-eu-plan.html
Regulators may be given powers to
take control of banks that fail to meet capital requirements,
under European plans to step in earlier during financial crises.  Supervisors may appoint a “special manager” to take over
a bank that doesn’t meet capital standards and hasn’t submitted
“a credible restoration plan,” the  European Commission  said in
a document obtained by Bloomberg News. Regulators would also be
given the power to suspend dividends or fire senior managers.  “The special manager would exercise all the powers of
management but his primary duty would be to protect financial
stability,” according to the document, titled “An EU Framework
for Crisis Management in the Financial Sector.”  The Basel committee of central bankers and regulators last
month agreed to more than double capital requirements for
lenders after European governments spent $5.3 trillion bailing
out their banks amid the worst financial crisis in 70 years. The
commission is scheduled to propose minimum capital levels to
implement the Basel accord next year.  The plans contained in the document, which may be altered
before they are proposed by the commission on Oct. 20, would
also allow regulators to force banks to sell risky businesses if
their bank’s capital falls below the regulatory minimum.  The appointment of a special manager wouldn’t affect
shareholder rights, the document said.  Regulators would also have to test whether rescuing a
failing bank would better serve the public interest than closing
it down, the EU said in the document.  Unsecured Creditors  The commission is considering a mechanism to force
unsecured creditors of a failing bank to accept losses so the
lender can continue to function as a going concern without
accessing public funds.  “Significant legal and policy questions exist” on
mandatory creditor losses, the document said, including the
“impact on the cost of financing” and the “risk of driving
funding to short-term or secured debt.”  Banks should contribute to a network of resolution funds to
be tapped if the early intervention measures don’t work, the
commission said. Lenders should pay a levy based on the size of
liabilities on their balance sheet to fund the system, the
document said, adding that a single EU fund would be preferable
and require harmonization of the levy across Europe.  Irish taxpayers may need to pay 50 billion euros ($69.2
billion) to rescue lenders including Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  