-- Reliance 3G Bond Risk Tumbling as Loans Fund License Binge: India Credit
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-10-13T07:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/reliance-3g-bond-risk-tumbling-as-loans-fund-license-binge-india-credit.html
Reliance Communications Ltd.’s 
creditworthiness is improving at the fastest pace since June as
it refinances $1.9 billion of debt and investors gain confidence
in the ability of Indian cell phone companies to fund record
spending.  Credit-default swaps on India’s second-largest mobile phone
operator dropped 109 basis points last week to 421 basis points,
the most since the five days ending June 18, according to prices
quoted by CMA. Billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s company approached
banks seeking dollar funding to cut costs, a person with direct
knowledge of the plan said Oct. 11.  Indian mobile operators such as Tata Teleservices Ltd. need
to persuade lenders they can repay almost 1 trillion rupees ($22
billion) of debt after bidding twice as much as the government
projected for third-generation mobile phone licenses. Reliance
Communications bond risk reached 766 basis points on June 8, a
level comparable with that of European phone companies when they
loaded up on debt to pay $100 billion for permits to offer
faster services.  “The company is witnessing a revival in its mobile
services business,” said  Piyush Choudhary , an analyst at
Indiabulls Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “Reliance Communications’
cash-flow ability is expected to improve since the peak capital
expenditure cycle is behind it.”  Credit-default swaps insuring Reliance Communications’ debt
dropped three basis points to 411 basis points as of Oct. 12,
CMA prices show.  Default Swaps  A decade ago,  France Telecom SA  and Deutsche Telekom AG bid
so aggressively for European 3G licenses that they reported
record losses. Credit swaps on France Telecom debt surged to 638
basis points in June 2002 and have since fallen to 61. Reliance
Communications swaps trade at 416, the highest among Asian
mobile phone operators tracked by CMA.  Tom Wright , a spokesman for France Telecom in Paris,
declined to comment. Philipp Blank, a spokesman for Deutsche
Telekom, said the company couldn’t comment on auctions or
companies involved in auctions in other countries.  A one basis-point increase on a credit-default swap
protecting $10 million of debt from default for five years costs
the investor who wants to buy a contract an extra $1,000
annually. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Competition among 15 phone companies including  Bharti
Airtel Ltd.  and  Vodafone Group Plc ’s Indian unit has already
driven call rates as low as one U.S. penny a minute. The nine
Indian operators were forced to seek short-term financing to pay
$11 billion for 3G licenses in May.  Debt Triples  Ambani said at an annual shareholders meeting on Sept. 28
that he aims to rid his flagship company of debt within three
years in part by cutting capital expenses and selling the
Reliance Infratel Ltd. tower unit.  Reliance Communications’ net debt more than tripled to
about 310 billion rupees as of Sept. 30, from 100 billion rupees
on March 31, 2008, according to ICRA Ltd., a New Delhi-based
affiliate of Moody’s Investors Service.  The company reported a record 85 percent drop in profit in
the quarter to June. Net income at competitor Bharti Airtel, the
nation’s biggest operator, fell 32 percent as it increased
investment in Africa to counter slowing growth in India.  “As long as their operating performance supports their
ability to service debt, they shouldn’t face any constraints
with refinancing,” said Manoj Mohta, head of Mumbai-based
Crisil Research, a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos.  ‘Top Pick’  Reliance Communications  is the  worst-performing stock  over
the past 12 months in the 89-company Bloomberg World
Telecommunications Index, falling 24 percent. The index gained 7
percent in the same period.  The stock’s slide makes it attractive for investors as the
operator focuses on expanding its coverage in the world’s
second-biggest wireless phone market, UBS AG analysts led by
 Suresh Mahadevan  wrote in a note to clients on Oct. 11. Gartner
Inc. predicts mobile services in India will grow at an annual
rate of 17 percent in the four years through 2013.  The company is “well-positioned to ride the wireless data
boom,” UBS said, adding it has the potential to cut debt in
coming years with more free cash flow. “Reliance Communications
is our top pick in the India mobile phone sector as it has been
a big laggard.”  Reliance Communications gained 0.5 percent to 187.45 rupees
as of 12:30 p.m. in Mumbai trading, compared with a 1.5 percent
gain by the benchmark Sensitive Index, or Sensex.  Combined Burden  Himanshu Shah , an analyst with HDFC Securities Ltd. in
Mumbai, estimates the industry’s combined debt burden has peaked
at 1 trillion rupees, according to a Sept. 20 note to clients.  Tata Teleservices, the Indian partner of NTT DoCoMo Inc.,
said on June 2 it plans to borrow as much as 20 billion rupees
to expand its existing network, a week after  Idea Cellular Ltd. 
said it’s looking to raise foreign-currency debt.  Dollar-denominated debt sales in India this year reached
$7.4 billion as of Oct. 11, up from $1.5 billion in the same
period in 2009. Local-currency sales in India reached 1.51
trillion rupees, versus 1.48 trillion rupees for all of 2009 as
the  extra yield  top-rated companies must pay to borrow for five
years in relation to the government’s cost narrowed to 66 basis
points from 87 at the end of last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on India’s benchmark 10-year  bond  has climbed 16
basis points this month and 45 basis points since the end of May
to 8.01 percent. Similar-maturity bonds yield 3.4 percent in
China, 7.34 percent in Russia and 12.16 percent in Brazil. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘No Concern’  The rupee has gained 4.1 percent this year and 3.8 percent
since May, reaching 44.68 per dollar yesterday. The currency
will climb 3.4 percent to 43.2 by the end of 2011, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts.  Reliance Communications started talks with potential
investors after a non-binding agreement with GTL Infrastructure
Ltd. to sell 50,000 phone towers lapsed on Aug. 31. The operator
is also considering an initial public offering of its tower
unit, it said in an e-mail on Sept. 6, without specifying names.  The board has given preliminary approval for the sale of a
26 percent stake to a strategic or private equity investor, the
company said June 6.  “A combination of strategic and financial initiatives
would result in a large cash infusion and significantly bring
down debt levels in the next few quarters,” Ambani told
shareholders on Sept. 28.  Risk assessor ICRA has a long-term rating on Reliance
Communications of LAA+, its second-highest, meaning “high
safety” with “modest” risks.  “There’s no concern over its ability to repay its debt,”
said  Vikas Aggarwal , an analyst at ICRA. “It’s also part of the
Reliance group, which gives it significant flexibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 