-- Republicans Prove Unpopular With Voters Against Obama in Poll
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/republicans-proving-unpopular-with-voters-prepared-to-oppose-obama-in-poll.html
Republican attacks on President
 Barack Obama ’s policies are resonating with voters, even as many
Americans give a thumbs-down to the party and some of its
specific ideas, a Bloomberg National Poll shows.  Three weeks before the midterm elections, Republicans
maintain a position of strength due to the commitment of their
supporters and the likelihood they will vote.  The general Republican message of less spending, lower
taxes and repeal of the health-care overhaul is connecting.
Pluralities of those polled support overturning the health-care
measure -- Obama’s signature legislative accomplishment -- and
back the “Pledge to America” that offers a road map for how
Republicans would govern if they win congressional majorities.  Still, the poll suggests voters aren’t embracing
Republicans as much as they are rejecting Democrats.  Poll participant Carol Wortham, 62, a retired state and
federal government worker in Bayou Vista, Texas, who considers
herself an independent voter, said she plans to support
Republicans this year, though she isn’t excited to do so.  “They are the lesser of two evils,” she said.  The poll finds Republicans in an anomalous position --
poised to make political gains while the party and its policies
are unpopular. That stands in contrast to midterm elections in
1994 and 2006, when the insurgent party gained congressional
control after polls showed voter attitudes tilting toward them.  Unfavorable View  In the Bloomberg Poll, almost half of likely voters -- 49
percent -- said they had an unfavorable view of the Republicans.
Democrats have a narrow advantage on favorability, 47 percent to
45 percent.  In October 1994, the month before Republicans won enough
seats to gain control of both the U.S. House and Senate, their
party had a 7 percentage point advantage in positive ratings
among registered voters, according to the NBC News/Wall Street
Journal poll. In October 2006, before Democrats retook control
of both chambers, a NBC/Journal poll showed their party with a
sizable popularity advantage over Republicans.  “People are insecure,” said J.  Ann Selzer , president of
Selzer & Co., a Des Moines, Iowa-based firm that conducted the
nationwide survey on Oct. 7-10. “Their own money is tight and
the current administration has not convinced them the nation
will not go broke from big spending programs. That insecurity
does not translate into trust for Republicans, however.”  Economic Challenges  Obama, 49, inherited an economy in crisis. Joblessness,
which reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in October 2009,
stood at  9.6 percent nationwide  last month. Gross domestic
product, which recorded a 5.0 percent annual growth rate in last
year’s final quarter, slowed to 1.7 percent during 2010’s second
quarter. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index is up more than 44
percent since Obama took office in January 2009, though it’s
risen only 4.5 percent this year.  Much of Obama’s focus in his first year was on passing the
health-care overhaul that aims to insure tens of millions of
Americans, cut costs and bar insurers from rejecting customers
with pre-existing medical conditions. In the new Bloomberg poll,
the measure’s repeal is favored by 47 percent of likely voters,
while 42 percent say it should be left alone.  Still, the poll found strong backing for most of the law’s
provisions. Three-quarters favor its ban on insurance companies
denying coverage due to pre-existing conditions; 67 percent
support allowing children up to age 26 to stay on their parents’
policies. Also, 73 percent want to keep the addition of more
prescription-drug benefits for those on  Medicare .  Eight Provisions  Among eight of the law’s provisions on which the poll
sought opinions, repeal was backed by a majority of likely
voters for just two: requiring everyone to have health insurance
and taxing companies that offer especially generous coverage.  Democrats have generally shied away from campaigning on the
bill because of its overall unpopularity.  The Republican “Pledge to America” is viewed as a good
idea by 48 percent of likely voters, compared with 39 percent
who term it a bad idea. Also, more than half agreed with a
statement that the federal  budget deficit  is “dangerously out
of control and threatens our economic future.”  The  Republican pledge  is short on specific proposals.
Keeping the promise to cut an estimated $100 billion from the
federal budget next year, though, implicitly would slash
spending for education, cancer research and aid to local police
and firefighters, among other items.  Deficit Reduction  Most likely voters are opposed or lukewarm to sacrifices
often mentioned in debates on reducing the  deficit .  At least half said that among 12 ideas that are commonly
broached, a third should be taken off the table. These include
raising the age of eligibility for Medicare, privatizing  Social
Security  and reducing federal funding for disease research.  Almost half of likely voters say the idea of cutting
 federal spending  on roads, bridges and public transportation
shouldn’t be considered, and there’s a comparable level of
opposition to raising the age for Social Security benefits.  On whether to renew tax-rate reductions enacted under
President  George W. Bush  that are to expire at year’s end -- an
issue that is dividing the parties -- likely voters are closer
to Obama’s position.  A plurality of them -- 43 percent -- support his goal of
continuing the lower rates for individual income up to $200,000
and up to $250,000 for couples filing jointly, which accounts
for about 97 percent of taxpayers, according to Internal Revenue
Service data. Support for the Republican push to extend the cuts
for all tax brackets was at 34 percent, while 20 percent backed
letting all the reductions expire to help cut the deficit.  Independent Voters  The Republican advantage as the Nov. 2 election approaches
is assisted by the party’s support from independent voters, a
critical bloc that can make or break a candidate. The poll shows
independents favoring Republican congressional candidates over
Democrats, 35 percent to 29 percent.  The most motivated voters -- those who say they will
definitely vote and are extremely interested in the election --
lean Republican over Democrat, 51 percent to 37 percent. Also,
55 percent of Republicans say the election is “exceptionally
important,” compared with 35 percent of Democrats and 41
percent of independents.  “A smaller election favors Republicans,” Selzer said.
“Democrats have moved into overdrive -- maybe too late -- to
boost turnout, which will work to their advantage.”  The Bloomberg Poll included interviews with 721 likely
voters and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.7 percentage
points.  ‘Other’ Choice  Neither party cracks the 50 percent mark on the generic
trial heat for Congress. Respondents were offered a choice of
Republicans, Democrats or an “other” category. Democrats
received support from 42 percent, while Republicans claimed 40
percent. The remaining 18 percent picked “other” or weren’t
sure.  For a House majority, Republicans need a net gain of 39
seats; to win the Senate, they need a net gain of 10.  At least half of likely voters surveyed predicted that
should Republicans win control of Congress, improvements would
result for the economy, banks, small businesses, large
corporations and the wealthy. By 46 percent to 40 percent, the
likely voters think a Republican Congress would be better
instead of worse for the middle class.  Forty-one percent said they would personally benefit from a
Republican takeover, while 29 percent say they would be harmed
and 27 percent say there would be no change for them, with
little variation by age or gender.  Wrong Direction  Almost two-thirds of likely voters say they believe the
nation is headed in the wrong direction.  Poll participant Nancy Watkins, 57, who considers herself
an independent voter and lives in Eagle Point, Oregon, said she
would like to see Republicans win congressional majorities to
help “balance things out” between the legislative and
executive branches of government.  “They’re trying to say no on spending more money,” said
Watkins, an area manager for a refuse company. “We are going to
go bankrupt if we continue down the road of borrowing money.”  Watkins said she thinks another advantage to Republicans
taking control would be the removal of  Nancy Pelosi  as House
speaker.  “We have to get rid of Pelosi,” she said. “I hate that
lady.”  More than half of likely voters -- 52 percent -- have an
unfavorable view of the California Democrat, while a third have
a positive view of her. House Minority Leader  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican in line to become speaker if his party wins the
chamber, remains unknown to many likely voters, with 39 percent
saying they aren’t sure of their opinion of him. Among those
with a view, 29 percent said they had a favorable opinion of
him, while 32 percent viewed him negatively.  Missy Coombs, 52, a self-employed furniture refinisher who
considers herself an independent voter, said she dislikes much
of what she sees in American politics, including what she
considers unrealistic expectations for economic recovery.  “I think that we need to be a little more patient,” said
Coombs, who lives in Holladay, Utah. “I think people are knee-
jerking a little too much. To expect instant results is crazy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  