-- Rice May Surge 30% as U.S. Crop Misses USDA Forecast
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-10-12T07:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/rice-may-surge-30-as-u-s-harvest-facing-a-serious-problem-group-says.html
The rice harvest in the U.S., the
world’s fourth-largest exporter last year, may be at least 10
percent smaller than estimated, missing a forecast record output
and pushing prices 30 percent higher, a producers’ group said.
Futures advanced, erasing an earlier loss.  Rough-rice futures in Chicago may surge to $16 to $17 per
100 pounds by January after hot weather in producing areas of
the U.S. curbed yields and lowered milling rates, said Dwight A.
Roberts, president of the U.S. Rice Producers Association, who
correctly predicted the grain would peak at $16 last year.  Smaller production in the U.S. may limit supplies available
to importers, after recent flooding slashed harvests in
Pakistan, the world’s third-largest shipper last year. Rice has
rallied 37 percent from this year’s low of $9.55 per 100 pounds
on June 30.  “We’ve just begun to rally,” Milo Hamilton, president of
rice market advisory service Firstgrain.com, said at a  Singapore 
conference yesterday. “What you have out there is a crop that’s
in trouble,” he said, referring to the U.S. harvest.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  lowered its estimate for
this year’s national rice paddy production by 5 percent to 11
million metric tons and forecast that average yield per acre
would drop to the lowest since the 2005-2006 season.  The Food & Agriculture Organization of the  United Nations 
pared its estimate for global rice production on Sept. 1 for the
second time since April as lower water levels in the Mekong
River cut yields in Thailand and  Vietnam , the world’s two
biggest exporters, and flooding cut the harvest in  Pakistan .  ‘Wrong’ Rains  Hot weather in July and August hurt the U.S. crop and may
lower the amount of milled rice produced from every 100 tons of
rough rice to 50 tons, from the usual 65 tons, Roberts said in
an interview yesterday.  “We had a lot of rains at the wrong time,” Joe Crane, who
grows about 1,000 acres (405 hectares) of rice in  Texas , said in
an interview in Singapore today. “It caused a lot of blanks
because of the pollination problems. We also had extremely high
nighttime temperatures up in the central part of the U.S.,”
further lowering yields, he said.  Rough-rice for November delivery gained 0.4 percent to
$13.05 per 100 pounds on the  Chicago  Board of Trade at 3:16 p.m.
Singapore time, erasing an earlier loss of 0.4 percent.  “We’ve never had a year where we started out thinking
we’re going to have a record crop and then over the last three
weeks, everything has changed because of field yields and
milling yield problems,” Roberts said. “The milling-yield
problem has yet to figure into the USDA data.”  ‘Serious Problem’  The average yield in the U.S. will be 6,687 pounds (3,033
kilos) per acre, 360 pounds less than last month’s estimate, the
USDA said last week. The department raised its average cash
price forecast by $1.80, to as much as $13.10 per 100 pounds.  “The USDA doesn’t drastically revise its yield forecast
and price forecast,” Roberts said. “That’s a sign that there’s
a serious problem.”  Prices need to be $13 per 100 pounds for farmers to meet
production costs, Hamilton said.  Farmers may switch from rice to planting wheat and soybeans
if prices fall below that break-even level, Roberts said.  Wheat futures have surged 67 percent from this year’s low
on June 9, while soybeans have rallied 31 percent from this
year’s low on the same date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  