-- Trichet Wants `Early Warnings' to Prevent Budget-Deficit Surges, Policies
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-10-12T16:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/trichet-wants-early-warnings-to-prevent-budget-deficit-surges-policies.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said he favors “early warning” systems and
quicker sanctions to prevent governments from implementing
policies that could lead to soaring budget deficits.  “It is essential to establish sound procedures to enhance
and enforce fiscal surveillance in the euro area,” Trichet said
in a speech in New York today. “We need shorter deadlines under
excessive deficit procedures so that corrective policy action is
taken in good time. We need quasi-automaticity in the
application of sanctions.”  Deficits in euro-area countries such as  Greece  and  Ireland 
have soared in the wake of the recession, raising investor
concern that some nations may not be able to pay their debts. As
countries implement cuts to lower budget gaps, Trichet said the
correct policies need not overly hamper the  economic recovery .  Echoing his Oct. 7 press conference in Frankfurt, Trichet
said there will be a “moderation” in the pace of economic
growth in the second half of the year and that inflation will
remain “moderate” in 2011.  “That being said, the positive but modest underlying
momentum of the recovery remains in place,” he said.  Trichet also said that “a lot remains to be done both as
regards the resilience of the global financial system and as
regards the rebalancing of domestic and external imbalances at a
global level within and between the advanced and the emerging
economies.”  While the Basel III banking regulations are a
“cornerstone” for a new system, authorities are “far from
done,” Trichet said, pointing to measures needed for
systemically important institutions.  “This is still no time for complacency,” he said. “What
we need today is not ‘wars’ of any kind, but a strong and
renewed commitment to confident and resolute cooperation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fergal O’Brien  in London on 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  