-- Hurricane Paula Grows to Category 2 Storm, Threatening Mexico's Yucatan
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-10-12T15:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/tropical-storm-paula-likely-to-strengthen-become-a-hurricane-off-mexico.html
Hurricane Paula, a small storm, may
strengthen later today in the western Caribbean off Honduras and
threaten the Mexican resorts of Cancun and Cozumel with high
winds and heavy rain over the next two days, the National
Hurricane Center said.  Paula, the ninth hurricane of the June through November
Atlantic season, has maximum sustained winds of 75 miles per
hour (120 kph), the Miami-based center said in a website
 advisory  at 10:45 a.m. East Coast time. The storm’s hurricane-
strength winds, of at least 74 mph, extend only 10 miles from
its center.  The system was 155 miles south-southeast of the resort
island of Cozumel moving north-northwest at 10 mph, the center
said. It’s forecast to pass just off the east coast of the
Yucatan Peninsula tomorrow before turning east toward Cuba
without threatening any oil installations in the Gulf of Mexico.  Last month, Tropical Storm Matthew drenched Honduras,
Guatemala and southern Mexico. Tropical Storm Karl plowed across
the Yucatan on Sept. 15 after coming ashore south of Cancun,
then strengthened into a hurricane over the gulf before striking
mainland Mexico near Veracruz. Cancun will be the site of two
weeks of United Nations climate talks starting Nov. 29.  At Least 300 Deaths  Earlier this season Hurricane Alex also struck the area, as
did Tropical Storm Agatha, which came in off the Pacific. At
least 300 people have died from this year’s storms, according to
reports from several Central American nations.  A hurricane warning was in place for the Mexican coast from
Punta Gruesa to Cabo Catoche, including Cozumel. Forecasters
said tropical storm-force winds are expected to reach the coast
within the hurricane warning area later today or tonight with
hurricane conditions early tomorrow. Some strengthening is
possible during the next day or two, the center said.  Tropical storm-force winds are at least 39 mph, and the
threshold for a hurricane is 74 mph. Paula may produce 10 inches
(25 centimeters) of rain over the eastern Yucatan and western
and central Cuba, the center said.  A storm surge may produce flooding along the east coast of
the Yucatan. Near the coast, the surge will be accompanied by
large waves, it said.  A tropical storm warning is in place in Mexico from
Chetumal to Punta Gruesa and from Cabo Catoche to San Felipe.  The Mexican state of  Quintana Roo  has told residents to
remain on guard, according to a statement.  Mexico has a 45 percent chance of being hit by at least a
Category 1 storm in the next 21 hours, according to  Tropical
Storm Risk , a London-based forecaster of catastrophic risk that
grew out of a U.K. government-supported tsunami initiative. TSR
said in a statement that the chance of a tropical storm strength
system hitting the country is 75 percent.  Cancun has a 40 percent chance of being struck by a
Category 1 hurricane and Cozumel a 35 percent chance, TSR said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  