-- Royal Bafokeng Says Impala Platinum Was Bidder for Rasimone, Carroll Says
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-12T16:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/royal-bafokeng-says-impala-platinum-was-bidder-for-rasimone-carroll-says.html
Anglo Platinum Ltd. , the largest
producer of the metal, vetoed a deal that could have combined
the 300,000-strong Bafokeng nation’s Rasimone mine with rival
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.’s  largest mine, Royal Bafokeng
Holdings Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Niall Carroll  said.  Impala bid for the Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum Mine, owned
75 percent by Royal Bafokeng’s platinum arm and about a third by
Anglo Platinum, Carroll said. Royal Bafokeng Platinum yesterday
said it rejected an unsolicited offer for the mine and
reinstated a plan to list its shares in Johannesburg.  “Given our significant shareholding in Implats and the
contiguity of BRPM to the  Impala Lease Area , there was clear
logic for a combination of these two assets,” Carroll said in
e-mailed extracts of a speech he made at Sun City today.  Anglo Platinum  is reviewing Carroll’s comments, spokeswoman
Anna Mulholland said by e-mail today, reiterating the company’s
support for Royal Bafokeng’s plan to list shares.  Royal Bafokeng Holdings was supportive of Impala’s offer,
which was “credible” and “in the national interest,” Carroll
said. The unsolicited offer from Impala would “have allowed us
to significantly advance our strategic agenda,” he said.  Impala is the biggest rival of Anglo Platinum, a unit of
 Anglo American Plc . The two platinum companies, and Royal
Bafokeng, produce almost all of their metal in South Africa,
which has the world’s richest platinum reserves.  The Rasimone underground mine is Royal Bafokeng Platinum’s
main asset and yields about an annual 180,000 platinum ounces in
concentrate, the company said Sept. 20. RBP is developing a 12
billion rand ($1.7 billion) project on the neighboring Styldrift
farm that may raise the company’s production to 420,000 platinum
ounces in concentrate a year by 2017.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carli Lourens at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net  