-- Rubber Prices in Indonesia Advance to Record on Rainfall, Association Says
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-12T09:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/rubber-prices-in-indonesia-advance-to-record-on-rainfall-association-says.html
Rubber in Indonesia, the world’s
second-largest producer, surged to a record after heavy rains
disrupted tapping and the price may extend gains, according to
an industry association.  The free-on-board price, or cost without freight and
insurance, for SIR-20 grade climbed today to $3.85 a kilogram,
 Asril Sutan Amir , chairman of the Rubber Association of
Indonesia, said by phone. The price was quoted at $3.67
yesterday, and was about $2.87 at the start of the year,
according to  data  compiled by International Rubber Consortium.  A La Nina weather event has brought heavier-than-usual
rainfall to parts of Australia and Asia this year, including
Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, the three biggest rubber
growers. The rains have also been blamed by Indonesian industry
groups for lower output or missed forecasts for cocoa and tin.  The Indonesian rubber price may advance to $4 by the end of
this month because there’s a “supply shortage” and growing
demand, said Amir. Output will probably be about 2.4 million
metric tons this year, matching last year’s total, Amir said,
reiterating a forecast that the association made last month.  Rubber futures in Tokyo denominated in yen have surged 19
percent this year on tighter supplies and demand from China, the
largest user. The March-delivery contract on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange climbed as much as 3 percent today to 332.5 yen per
kilogram ($4,046 a metric ton), the highest level since April 19.  Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia together account for about
70 percent of global natural-rubber production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  