-- India's Rupee Weakens to One-Week Low on Speculation Importers Buy Dollars
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2010-10-12T12:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/rupee-weakens-to-one-week-low-as-importers-buy-dollars-after-appreciation.html
India’s rupee weakened to its lowest
level in a week on speculation importers are buying dollars,
taking advantage of the currency’s rise to a two-year high.  India’s industrial production growth slowed to a 15-month
low of 5.6 percent in August, from a year earlier after a
revised 15.2 percent increase in July, the statistics office
said in a statement in New Delhi today. The median estimate of
25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 9.5 percent
gain in August.  Asia’s best-performing currency in the past month fell
after the  Sensex  stock index retreated from near a record high.
Foreign funds bought a record net 998.7 billion rupees ($22.3
billion) of Indian equities this year through Oct. 11 and have
been  net buyers  for 29 days in a row, according to data
published by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India .  “There is some demand from importers, including from oil
companies,” said P. V. Rao, the head of foreign-exchange
trading at IndusInd Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “The stock index is
also down, which may mean lower inflows for now.”  The rupee fell 0.6 percent today to 44.67 per dollar as of
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency touched 44.11 on Oct. 7, the strongest
level since September 2008.  India may intervene in the foreign-exchange market if
capital flows “disrupt” the economy,  central bank  Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said Oct. 9 at the International Monetary
Fund’s annual meeting in Washington. So far, policy makers have
not had to buy dollars to counter the local currency’s
appreciation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  