-- Russia May Cede Sberbank Control Via Sale, Seeks $3 Billion for VTB Stake
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-12T10:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/russia-may-cede-sberbank-control-via-sale-seeks-3-billion-for-vtb-stake.html
Russia may cede its controlling
stake in OAO Sberbank, the country’s largest lender, through
selling stock, First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said.  “No scenarios should be ruled out for  Sberbank ,” Shuvalov
told reporters in Moscow today after meeting with foreign
investors on issues including privatization. “Our strategy is
to increase the stability and reliability of Sberbank.”  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government plans to raise
$50 billion selling assets over the next five years to help fund
a budget gap that it expects to reach 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product this year. The government, which controls 60.3
percent of Sberbank, initially planned to sell no more than 9
percent of the lender to retain majority control.  Shuvalov, Putin’s point man for foreign investment, said
the government plans to get “a minimum” of $3 billion for 10
percent of  VTB Group , Sberbank’s smaller competitor. The
government will hire a “major” foreign bank to be the agent
for the VTB sale, which may be concluded by the end of the year,
Shuvalov said.  This will be the “new mechanism” for privatization,
hiring agents and consultants, Shuvalov said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley are among the
foreign banks that may win contracts to advise Russia on asset
sales, Shuvalov said, without identifying any others. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, UBS AG and
Troika Dialog are also vying for government contracts, the
Economy Ministry said in April.  Sberbank declined 0.7 percent to 90.92 rubles at 2:53 p.m.
in Moscow, valuing the company at about $65 billion. VTB fell
0.6 percent to 9.08 kopeks for a capitalization of $32 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  