-- S&P 500 Stocks With Highest P/Es Poised to Win, UBS's Golub Says
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/s-p-500-stocks-with-highest-p-es-poised-to-beat-market-ubs-s-golub-says.html
Investors should purchase stocks
with the highest price-to-earnings ratios because their
valuation premium to the cheapest shares is too low, according
to  Jonathan Golub  at UBS AG.  The gap between the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  industries
with the highest and lowest P/Es narrowed to 3.6 last month from
9.6 in 2006, according to UBS, which used projected earnings for
its valuations.  The disparity suggests purchasing expensive stocks may
boost returns during the next 12 to 24 months, the UBS
strategist said. The three industries with the highest multiples
in the S&P 500 are industrials, consumer discretionary and
consumer staples, according to UBS.  “This is akin to purchasing a Picasso when high-priced
artwork is out of favor,” Golub, the New York-based chief U.S.
market strategist, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “On
a relative basis, cheap stocks are overvalued because they are
much closer to the market average. It’s not that I want to
overpay for companies, but rather traditionally high  P/E  stocks
are cheaper than they should be.”  Since falling to this year’s low on July 2, the  S&P 500 
rose 14 percent through yesterday on expectations the Federal
Reserve will buy bonds to stimulate the economy and avoid a
second recession in three years. The benchmark measure of U.S.
stocks surged 8.8 percent in September, the most for the month
since 1939.  GDP Growth  Investors who only buy stocks can take advantage of Golub’s
recommendation by purchasing shares with high P/E. Those who
also short should bet against companies with low valuations, he
said. He said the long-short strategy is probably best
implemented through a swap, a derivative through which investors
exchange rights.  U.S. gross domestic product will grow 2.7 percent in 2010,
2.5 percent in 2011 and 3.1 percent in 2012, according to the
median projections in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The
nation’s GDP contracted 2.6 percent last year.  “The economy is strong enough for fundamentals to become
relevant again,” Golub said. “If you have a less macro-driven
environment, individual companies’ characteristics are
appreciated for their uniqueness and therefore multiples tend to
be more unique.”  Golub said that the strategy of buying high P/E stocks when
their valuation gap is small versus cheap shares tends to work
better in a “stronger” stock market.  “I’m not making this as an up-market call, but if the
market is just lousy, then it’s not likely to work,” he said.
“If the trends seen in September continue, high P/E stocks
should rise while others remain relatively unchanged. There have
been many times in history when this has added between 5 to 10
percent or more value over a period of one to two years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 