-- SAIL Advisors Fund to Allocate More to Less Liquid Hedge Funds, CEO Says
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-10-12T01:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/sail-advisors-fund-to-allocate-more-to-less-liquid-hedge-funds-ceo-says.html
SAIL Advisors Ltd. , backed by Duty
Free Shoppers Group co-founder  Robert Miller , plans to allocate
more money to hedge funds running less liquid strategies, such
as distressed securities or credit.  The $1.2 billion multistrategy  SAIL Flagship Fund , which
allows redemptions once a quarter, may consider allocating money
to hedge funds that will lock up its capital for as long as two
years, said Chief Executive Officer  Vincent Duhamel  in an
interview yesterday.  Funds of hedge funds have preferred managers that invest in
easier-to-sell securities after some were unable to recoup money
fast enough to meet investor redemptions in the financial crisis.
Shortage of capital has given illiquid investments such as small
stocks in emerging markets more attractive returns, Duhamel said.  “There are some assets, some opportunities out there that
are just very attractive, but people don’t have the appetite to
go after that,” said Duhamel. “We have capital that is very
long term. We can earn a liquidity premium because we’re willing
to commit longer term.”  More than 800 funds of funds closed down globally since the
global financial crisis, thinning their ranks to 2,100 by June,
according to Chicago-based data provider Hedge Fund Research Inc.  SAIL, which oversees more than $2 billion in five funds, is
changing the flagship fund’s allocation to reduce overlap with
funds it took over from  ING Groep NV  early this year. SAIL
Flagship Fund and the $557 million  Topaz Fund  it inherited from
ING have similar investment objectives, yet Topaz allows monthly
investor redemptions, he said.  ‘Good Assets’  SAIL Flagship Fund may also make investments in the
secondary market, buying shares at discounts in hedge funds that
have curbed redemptions or segregated illiquid assets in so-
called “side-pockets.” Some hedge-fund stakes are also being
offered by fund of funds or pension investors which have been
forced to cut their holdings, he said.  “Sometimes there are some pretty good assets behind
that,” Duhamel said. “It’s just a question that it’s going to
take more time before you can achieve higher returns.”  At the beginning of 2009, some of those stakes were being
sold at more than 40 percent discount to their net asset value,
Duhamel said.  SAIL Flagship Fund was set up in 1999 and has had higher
target risk and return than Topaz. In exchange for longer
lockups, the fund would be able to ask for preferential terms
such as lower fees, Duhamel said.  SAIL, which invests a majority of its assets in managers
that oversee $500 million to $2 billion, has also revived ING’s
emerging managers fund that parcels out money to new hedge funds
which have limited assets and shorter track records, he said.  Reviving Fund  The fund, which has investments in about 18 managers, is
expected to grow to $25 million by year-end from about $17
million now. ING was on the verge of closing it last year, said
Duhamel.  Its revival came at a time when investors allocated most of
the $23 billion new inflows into the global hedge-fund industry
in the first half to managers with at least $5 billion of assets,
according to HFR. About 201 new funds started in the second
quarter this year, the slowest pace since a year ago, it added.  “It allows us to capture early on some very promising
managers that we think are going to generate alpha,” said
Duhamel, referring to returns that are a result of manager
skills rather than general market moves. “The smaller managers
will give you better terms, transparency and better liquidity
and typically won’t charge as much” as bigger funds.  SAIL Flagship Fund returned 12 percent in 2009 after losing
23 percent in 2008. It is up more than 2 percent in the first
nine months this year. The Topaz Fund is up more than 3 percent
this year through September and returned 18 percent in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  