-- Santana Vows Saving Zoo Lets Los Angeles Be Model Entrepreneur
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/santana-vows-saving-zoo-lets-los-angeles-be-model-government-entrepreneur.html
The job of making Los Angeles run
more like a business to cope with budget deficits that may
exceed $500 million in four years belongs to the son of illegal
Mexican immigrants who grew up poor in the city’s suburbs.  Miguel Santana , 41, put himself through California’s
Whittier College and earned a graduate degree from Harvard
University to become Los Angeles’s city administrative officer,
the  highest-ranking  non-elected official in the second-largest
U.S. city. He oversees 116 employees and an $11 million budget.
His $256,803 salary is $24,000 more than the mayor’s.  Santana started work in August 2009, two months after Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa  named him the city’s “lead financial
steward.” Since then, Los Angeles cut jobs and raised health-
plan contributions for some employees. Now Santana is seeking
private companies to run municipal parking garages to save costs
and is weighing the same for the city zoo and convention center.  “You can absolutely be entrepreneurial,” Santana said in
an interview at downtown’s  City Hall East  building, where his
office walls hold paintings of local street scenes done as a
hobby by a city employee. “It takes the political will to say,
‘We don’t have to do the old model.’”  U.S. cities face budget deficits approaching $83 billion
over the next two years, the Washington-based National League of
Cities  said in December . Vallejo, California, filed for
bankruptcy protection in 2008 and Jefferson County, Alabama, has
struggled two years to avoid it. That doesn’t daunt Santana,
who’s been a public employee for most of the last two decades.  “My entire life I understood the importance of government
and also how government failed people,” he said. “We’re not
inherently flawed and destined to collapse.”  Ragged Trees  With advice from Santana, Mayor Villaraigosa, 57, and the
city council plugged a $485 million budget hole for the fiscal
year that began July 1 by reducing library hours, tree-trimming
and after-school childcare.  Some 3,500 workers were fired, took early retirement or
transferred from the general-fund payroll in the past year, the
largest employee cutbacks in the city’s history, Santana said.
His office also negotiated a decrease of almost $100 million in
police overtime pay.  Los Angeles had little choice after Controller  Wendy Greuel 
said on April 5 that the city risked running out of cash because
the municipal utility withheld a $73 million payment in a
dispute over rates.  The city also had ratings on more than $1.3 billion of
general-obligation debt cut one level by three credit evaluators
this year. Fitch Ratings went to A+ from AA-, Moody’s Investors
Service lowered to Aa3 from Aa2 and Standard & Poor’s moved to
AA- from AA. The new grades are the fourth-highest at all three.  “Every time we got downgraded, that for me was a tool to
show the consequences of inaction,” Santana said.  Incomplete Sale  Concerns about finances prevented Los Angeles from selling
a fifth of $1.2 billion of short-term notes it offered investors
on June 30, according to a Santana memo. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
the main underwriter, bought the unsold securities.  Investors punished the city for the setbacks. The extra
yield they demanded to hold a Los Angeles general-obligation
bond due in 12 years compared with an  index of AAA rated 
municipal debt of the same maturity widened to as much as 70
basis points after the incomplete note sale, the most in more
than 11 months, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . The gap
has since narrowed to 13 points. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  In the coming year, Santana will push for cost cuts by
seeking private companies to run city-owned assets and
negotiating permanent changes to employee benefits.  “We’ve squeezed,” he said. “The next question is: What
are we not going to do anymore?”  Up-Front Payments  Los Angeles could lease 10 city-owned parking garages to
private operators for 50 years and get up-front payments of as
much as $300 million, Santana has proposed.  Wary of how private operators led by Morgan Stanley raised
rates in Chicago after leasing parking meters there in 2008,
Santana’s  office  recommended Los Angeles retain control over
fees. He plans to have final bids for the concession to the city
council for approval by February.  The Los Angeles Zoo and the Los Angeles Convention Center
may operate more efficiently under private control, Santana
said. Nationally, 70 percent of the 223 attractions accredited
by the Silver Spring, Maryland-based  Association of Zoos and
Aquariums  are run by businesses or non-profits.  Hurdles to Jump  “A lot of hurdles would have to be jumped” before such a
shift, said Councilor  Tom LaBonge , whose district includes the
zoo in Griffith Park. “There are a lot of dedicated employees.
I want to make sure their issues are dealt with.”  The issue for Santana is how much the city of 3.8 million
people can afford. Expenses are expected to climb 3.6 percent
annually over the next four years, more than twice the growth in
revenue, according to his  budget outlook . More than 80 percent
of those costs are employee-related.  Pension and health-care expenses for retirees will rise to
a projected $802 million this year, 18 percent of general-fund
revenue, from $277 million, or 10 percent, in 1999. They’re
expected to double again by 2014, when the city could run a
budget deficit of $550 million, according to Santana.  Today, he will brief the mayor and council’s Executive
Employee Relations Board on reducing pension payments,
increasing the retirement age and boosting contributions for
future hires. His proposals include a 401(k)-style pension
option that would be cheaper for the city.  Changing Framework  “What we currently have is not sustainable,” Santana
said. “What I tell the unions is, ‘If you want to have a
pension plan when you retire, the framework in which we have it
has to change.’”  Santana’s office already negotiated $20 million in annual
savings in August from the  Engineers and Architects Association ,
which represents one-seventh of the city’s workforce. Members
will pay 5 percent of their health-insurance premiums for the
first time, according to the  mayor’s office .  The deal will increase health-care costs for all city
workers because of new federal legislation, said Cheryl Parisi,
who heads the 22,000-member  Coalition of Los Angeles City
Unions.  She also said employee terminations will lift expenses
by triggering $98 million in pay raises under an earlier labor
agreement.  “To be a real agent of change, you have to work closely
with all stakeholders,” Parisi said in a telephone interview.
“Miguel has attempted to effectuate change through
unilateralism.”  California Family  Santana was born in the U.S. and grew up in Bell Gardens,
California, a city 11 miles (17 kilometers) southeast of Los
Angeles where more than one quarter of the 45,000 residents live
in poverty, according to the  U.S. Census Bureau . His parents, a
seamstress and drywall hanger, became citizens under a 1986 law
that granted it for residents living in the U.S. since 1982.  Santana said he and his seven siblings hold five bachelor’s
degrees, three master’s degrees, including two from Harvard, and
one doctorate from the University of Chicago.  “My family is the face of immigration reform and why it is
so important for our country,” he said.  Santana worked as a special assistant to the president of
the non-profit  Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund 
before being asked in 1993 by Los Angeles County Supervisor
 Gloria Molina  to be her legislative assistant.  County Experience  He left that job to attend Harvard’s  John F. Kennedy School
of Government , where he earned a master’s degree in 2005. He
served as a deputy chief executive officer for Los Angeles
County, the largest in the nation with more than 10 million
residents, from 2007 until he took the city post.  There have been missteps by the married father of four
daughters. In March, Santana was  arrested  for driving under the
influence of alcohol after leaving a charity event. He was
sentenced to three years’ probation and fined, according to the
Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office.  “I’m not proud of that,” he said. “I’ve learned what I
needed to learn.”  Even with more labor concessions and private outsourcing,
city deficits will persist because revenue won’t return to 2007
levels until perhaps the next decade, Santana said.  “We managed to survive, but we still have a long way to
go,” he said. “It’s a huge task and it keeps me up at night.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  