-- Saudi Banks, Led by Al-Rajhi, Report Lower Quarterly Profit on Provisions
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-12T15:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/saudi-banks-led-by-al-rajhi-report-lower-profit-on-provisions.html
Al-Rajhi Bank , Saudi Arabia’s
biggest lender by market value, said third-quarter profit
declined 8.6 percent as six of the kingdom’s 11 publicly traded
lenders reported lower quarterly profits on higher provisions.  Net income fell to 1.64 billion riyals ($440 million) from
1.8 billion riyals in the year-earlier period, the Riyadh-based
bank said in a statement on the  Saudi bourse website  today. The
median of three  analyst estimates  was for a profit of 1.84
billion riyals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi banks’ earnings have been hurt since the onset of the
global credit crisis as provisions for bad loans rose and
lending slowed after the Saad and Algosaibi business groups
defaulted on at least $15.7 billion of loans.  Saudi British
Bank , the lender 40 percent owned by HSBC Holdings Plc,  Arab
National Bank  and Saudi Investment Bank reported lower quarterly
profit.  “We are still in the mode where provisions will dominate
the profitability of the banks,”  Faisal Hasan , head of research
at Global Investment House KSCC, said from Kuwait. “Credit
growth has also been subdued.”  Banks in Saudi Arabia had been reluctant to resume lending
even after the central bank cut interest rates and the
government announced a $400 billion spending program to restart
the economy. Saudi bank credit to industry rose 3.3 percent in
August from a year earlier, compared with 4.9 percent in July,
according to data from the  Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency , the
country’s central bank.  Financial Results  The results “aren’t surprising because this has been sort
of an odd recovery,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at NCB
Capital, said in a phone interview today. “There has been a
failure by the private sector to pick up steam and reluctance by
the banks to move up the risk curve.”  Low interest rates have exerted pressure on Saudi banks’
profitability through reduced margins and lower business growth,
Moody’s Investors Service said on Sept. 27. The central bank
last year cut the repurchase rate to 2 percent, the lowest since
2004, and the reverse repurchase rate to 0.25 percent.  Saudi British Bank  said third-quarter profit dropped 26
percent to 419 million riyals, while Saudi Investment Bank said
third-quarter profit fell 27 percent to 149 million riyals. Both
cited provisions for their lower profitability.  Arab National Bank , the sixth-largest bank by market value,
declined 45 percent to 347 million riyals on its “conservative
policy.”  Bank Al-Jazira , the smallest Saudi Arabian lender by
market value, had a 69 percent decline in profit, while  Alinma
Bank  fell 49 percent.  Al-Rajhi shares were unchanged at 76 riyals, while Saudi
British dropped 1.8 percent to 42.7 riyals. Arab National Bank
shares shed 1.3 percent to 39.1 riyals and Saudi Investment Bank
lost 1.1 percent to 21.75 riyals. Bank Al-Jazira dropped 0.6
percent to 16.6 riyals and Alinma Bank declined 0.5 percent to
10.8 riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 