-- Schwarzenegger Blames Congress for `Crippling' U.S. Recovery
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   L u c i a n   K i m
-- 2010-10-12T13:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/schwarzenegger-in-russia-blames-congress-for-crippling-u-s-recovery.html
California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  blamed the sluggish economic recovery in the U.S.
on legislative paralysis as he took his message of budget cuts
to a global audience.  “The United States right now is crippled by Congress not
doing anything that has to do with reforming, no matter if it’s
immigration reform or having an energy policy,” Schwarzenegger
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today in Moscow.  Schwarzenegger, leading a California business delegation
to Russia, almost had to cancel his trip because of a 100-day
budget impasse in the California Legislature. The governor
signed a compromise budget that closed a $19 billion shortfall
on Oct. 8, two days before he arrived in Moscow on President
 Dmitry Medvedev ’s invitation.  The 63-year-old Republican is spending his last months in
office by seeking to secure California’s economic reach around
the globe. Schwarzenegger traveled to China, Japan and South
Korea last month and will visit U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  on his return trip to the U.S.  Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  are
searching for ways to cut a record U.K. deficit by 113 billion
pounds ($179 billion) by 2015 to protect the country’s top
credit rating.  “There are similarities in what’s happening in Great
Britain and what’s happening in California,” Schwarzenegger
said. “We’ve got to go and spend less money. I think
governments have promised people too much.”  Pension Costs  The ballooning cost of pensions for state workers was one
of the sticking points in California’s budget debate, which
dragged on for more than three months after the start of the
fiscal year. The state, if it were an independent country, would
have the world’s eighth-largest economy.  “We’ve got to roll back the pensions,” Schwarzenegger
said. “And that’s not just in California but all over the
world.”  U.S. legislators need to stop thinking just about the
coming elections and remember that “it’s about ordinary
people,” he said.  “If we’re careful, we’re not going to get into a double-
dipping situation,” Schwarzenegger said, referring to the
possibility of a second recession. “I see signs that we’re
going to come out of it. The key thing now is to create jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Chilcote  in Moscow at  rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  