-- Schwarzenegger Says Silicon Valley's `Wild Look' Lures Medvedev
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   L u c i a n   K i m
-- 2010-10-12T11:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/schwarzenegger-says-silicon-valley-s-wild-look-lures-russia-s-medvedev.html
California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  said Silicon Valley’s “free spirit” impressed
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  most during a visit to the
U.S. technology hub this summer.  “There’s a wild look when you come from the outside,”
Schwarzenegger, 63, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Moscow today. “It’s a totally different
atmosphere. He liked that. That’s what he wants to create
here.”  Schwarzenegger, who first met Medvedev in San Francisco in
June, immediately embraced the 45-year-old leader’s plan to
recreate a Silicon Valley outside Moscow. The governor is now
following up on his pledge to bring a team of California
business leaders to Moscow to help realize Medvedev’s idea.  Medvedev, who succeeded current Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  in 2008, has called for an end to his country’s dependence
on natural resources and the creation of a knowledge-based
economy that can compete globally. Moscow’s Skolkovo suburb has
been designated as the site of a new technology center to serve
as a model for Russian innovation.  “He has the plan and the vision, so I think we should all
work together to make his vision become a reality,”
Schwarzenegger said about Medvedev, who took the California
delegation to Skolkovo yesterday. While the discussion led to
questions about democracy, freedom and corruption in Russia,
Medvedev offered assurances to his guests, Schwarzenegger said.  ‘Barefoot’  During his California trip, Medvedev, who blogs and gets
his news online, toured the offices of Apple Inc., Cisco Systems
Inc. and Twitter Inc.  “People ran around in jeans, people ran around barefoot in
those buildings,” said Schwarzenegger. “The thing that
impressed him most was the free spirit.”  The Kremlin has already won commitments from Siemens AG,
Cisco Systems and Nokia Oyj to participate in Skolkovo. Former
Intel Corp. head  Craig Barrett , who is traveling with
Schwarzenegger, serves as co-chairman of Skolkovo’s supervisory
board. Other companies represented in the governor’s delegation
include Google Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Amgen Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Chilcote  in Moscow at  rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  