-- Security Chief Says Malicious E-Mails Show Scale of Cyber Threat to U.K.
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/security-chief-says-malicious-e-mails-show-scale-of-cyber-threat-to-u-k-.html
The head of the U.K. security agency
in charge of intercepting and safeguarding communications said
more than 20,000 malicious e-mails are sent to government
networks each month, 1,000 of which are deliberately targeted.  Iain Lobban, the director of  Government Communications
Headquarters , made the comments late yesterday in a speech
setting out the need for the U.K. to invest in Internet
security. He argued the British economy and national
infrastructure are at risk from cyber warfare.  “I don’t want you to take away the impression that it is
solely a national security or defense issue,” Lobban told the
 International Institute for Strategic Studies  in London. “It
goes to the heart of our economic well-being and national
interest.”  The government will set out on Oct. 18 the results of its
review of how Britain should reshape its security for the post-
Cold War era. The statement, which will probably be made by
Foreign Secretary  William Hague , will center on counter-
terrorism and improving cyber security.  GCHQ, based in Cheltenham, western England, is one of three
U.K. intelligence agencies. It works with the domestic security
service, known as MI5, and the overseas secret intelligence
service, also known as MI6, to protect the U.K.’s national
security interests.  Lobban said a “big challenge” for government comes from
putting services online without risking citizens’ personal data
being stolen and opened up to fraud.  “Within the next few years online tax and benefit payment
systems could be processing over 100 billion pounds ($160
billion) worth of payments each year,” he said, according to
the speech released by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s office.
“We need to deepen government’s dialogue and partnership with
the industry partners who deliver the systems and services that
need securing.”  Lobban said the “growth of e-crime is disturbing,” and,
while accurate estimates of the overall cost to the economy are
difficult, “a figure well into the billions seems credible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 