-- Serbia `Doesn't and Won't' Recognize Kosovo Independence, President Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2010-10-12T17:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/serbia-doesn-t-and-won-t-recognize-kosovo-independence-president-says.html
Serbia won’t recognize Kosovo’s
independence and wants to start a dialogue on the issue as soon
as possible, President  Boris Tadic  said as U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  visited the country.  Kosovo, where ethnic Albanians make up a majority of the
population, unilaterally declared independence from Serbia in
2008. Serbia has refused to recognize the country of about 2
million people, which many Serbs consider the cradle of their
culture. Resolution of the dispute is a prerequisite for
Serbia’s membership in the European Union.  “Serbia does not and will not recognize Kosovo’s
independence,” Tadic told reporters during a joint briefing
with Clinton in Belgrade, the capital. “However, we are
prepared for a dialogue” with officials in Kosovo, he said.  The U.S. and 68 other countries, including a majority of EU
members, recognize Kosovo’s sovereignty. Russia and China have
opposed independence. The United Nations General Assembly last
month approved a resolution calling on Serbia and Kosovo to
begin a dialogue facilitated by the EU.  A senior State Department official told reporters earlier
in the day that the U.S. believes Kosovo is a sovereign,
independent state and that discussion on this issue is over.  “There are areas, as the president said, where we have not
agreed, but we believe that the September resolution provides a
good basis for meaningful, forward-looking dialogue between
Serbia and Pristina,” Clinton said, referring to Kosovo’s
capital. “It will also have a positive impact on relations
between Serbia and its neighbors.”  Balkan Trip  Clinton arrived in the capital after a visit to Bosnia-
Herzegovina, where she called on Bosnians to make the political
changes needed to “fulfill the goal” of joining the EU and the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization. She travels to Pristina
tomorrow.  Serbia is seeking to repair relations with its neighbors
and join the EU after the wars that tore Yugoslavia apart during
the 1990s.  Arresting Bosnian Serb wartime commander  Ratko Mladic , the
most-wanted suspect from those conflicts, is another key
obstacle to Serbia’s EU membership. Mladic’s family wants the
68-year-old man declared dead.  Serbia will continue to search for suspected war criminals,
even if the Hague tribunal shuts down, Tadic said. U.S. support
is “crucial” for Serbia’s integration with the 27-nation bloc,
he said during the briefing.  ‘Dark Page’  “Serbia is doing all it can to close the dark page of the
history of the 1990s,” Tadic said. “With the act of arresting
the remaining war crimes fugitives, Serbia will fulfill its
obligations.”  Clinton’s trip comes two days after street battles between
police and protesters trying to prevent the first Gay Pride
Parade in Serbia in almost a decade. The visit also occurs ahead
of a meeting of a Dutch parliamentary committee on Oct. 13 to
discuss whether to join other EU members and give the go-ahead
for Serbia’s next step toward joining the bloc.  The U.S. is part of a NATO-led peacekeeping force that has
patrolled Kosovo since the pullout of Serbian troops in 1999.
NATO bombed Serbia for 78 days that year as the alliance
demanded an end to aggression against ethnic Albanians.  “We are absolutely convinced that Serbia can become not
only a member of the EU but a leader in Europe, an example in
Europe,” Clinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
 Misha Savic  in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  