-- Serbia Said to Seek at Least 1.4 Billion Euros for Telekom Sale
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-10-12T15:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/serbia-said-to-seek-at-least-1-94-billion-for-sale-of-50-telekom-stake.html
Serbia is seeking at least 1.4
billion euros ($1.94 billion) for its stake in Telekom Srbija AD
as European phone companies prepare to bid, said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  Invitations to tender may be sent as early as this week,
according to the people, who declined to be named before the
process is public. Telekom Austria AG, Deutsche Telekom AG and
France Telecom SA may be interested, the people said. Serbia is
selling a 50 percent stake plus one share of the equity.  Deputy Prime Minister  Bozidar Djelic  had last month said
the stake could be worth 1.6 billion euros and that interest was
strong among “many European and non-European operators.”  The sale of the state phone company may be completed by the
first quarter of 2011 in what would be the largest Serbian
government asset sale on record, Djelic said on Sept. 17.  Telekom Srbija is 20 percent-owned by Greece’s  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA , which itself is 30 percent-
owned by Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom, according to its website.  “We are keen to analyze opportunities that arise in our
region,” Telekom Austria spokeswoman Ursula Novotny said in an
e-mail. “Any potential decision to invest will be based on a
solid commercial evaluation of the target and the tender
documents.”  Deutsche Telekom  spokesman  Andreas Fuchs  declined to
comment as did France Telecom spokesman  Tom Wright .  Serbia, which wants to become a European Union candidate
next year, is struggling to attract foreign direct investment,
which Djelic said was 800 million euros in the first half,
almost double what the National Bank of Serbia had in its
balance of payments report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  