-- Shariah Money Markets Expand With First Global Bill Sales: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-10-12T06:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/shariah-money-markets-expand-with-first-global-bill-sales-islamic-finance.html
The first global Shariah-compliant
money-market securities may be sold early next year, providing
Islamic banks with more opportunities to invest reserves and
boost profits.  The bills to be issued by Kuala Lumpur-based  International
Islamic Liquidity Management Corp.  will help improve investment
across borders, according to an Oct. 7 statement from the
Islamic Financial Services Board, a standard-setting body. The
new organization will start selling the notes on a regular basis
from “early next year,”  Zeti Akhtar Aziz ,  Malaysia’s central
bank governor, said in an interview in Washington on Oct. 10.  IFSB is stepping up its efforts to bolster money markets
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt in September
2008, causing a global credit crunch. Dubai World roiled markets
last November seeking to delay payments on $24.9 billion of debt.
The Shariah-compliant products will fill a hole in the $1
trillion industry,  Shehzad Janab , head of asset management at
Daman Investments PSC, said in an interview yesterday.  “It’s one big missing piece of the pie,” said Janab at
Dubai-based Daman, which has over 5 billion dirhams ($1.4
billion) of securities under management. “If we can start
getting instruments which are short dated in maturity, then
definitely it will fulfill a big need.”  ‘A Breakthrough’  The new securities will enable lenders and investors to
match the maturity of assets and liabilities and deploy idle
funds, according to Riyadh-based Saudi Investment Bank and
Albaraka Banking Group based in Manama, Bahrain.  A dearth of  money-market  instruments has forced Islamic
lenders in Indonesia to keep as much as 20 percent of their
excess cash with the central bank, compared with 2.1 percent at
non-Islamic banks, according to a 2006  study  by IFSB. In
Pakistan, the figure was 3.8 percent against 0.3 percent. In
Bangladesh, the ratio was 57.3 percent versus 24 percent. Such
deposits earn little or no interest.  Siham Ismail, a spokeswoman for the IFSB in Kuala Lumpur,
declined to comment on the agency’s launch when contacted by
telephone yesterday and said no new data was available for the
money parked with the monetary authorities. The new entity will
be formally established on Oct. 25 in Kuala Lumpur, according to
the statement from the  IFSB , which comprises regulatory and
supervisory agencies in about 40 countries.  “It’s a breakthrough,” said Zeti at Bank Negara Malaysia,
who is an IFSB council member. “They are short term, and they
will be, we expect, highly rated instruments and therefore,
there would be strong demand for them. This would enhance the
competitiveness of Islamic finance,” she said.  Libor Benchmark  Regular sales of bills that are acceptable across all
Islamic jurisdictions will create a vibrant secondary market and
become benchmarks for banks and investors, according to Seera
Investment Bank based in Manama.  “Islamic institutions have no choice but to rely on Libor
as a reference to price non-conventional instruments,”  Sohail Tohami , head of treasury at Seera, said in an interview
yesterday. A transparent, highly-rated debt issuer under the
IFSB plan “may be able to overcome that handicap in future,”
he said.  The British Bankers’ Association, a trade organization for
more than 200 members in 60 countries, publishes daily fixings
for London interbank offered rates, or rates banks charge each
other for loans.  Global issuance of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply
with the religion’s ban on interest, fell 16 percent to $11.8
billion so far this year from the same period in 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Industry Growth  Sukuk returned 12.7 percent this year, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Index , while bonds in developing
markets gained 15.7 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index  shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for global sukuk
and three-month Libor narrowed nine basis points yesterday to
344, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai US Dollar Sukuk  Index .
The spread shrank 123 basis points this year.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent dollar-denominated
note maturing in June 2015 was little changed today at 2.42
percent. The spread with the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396
percent sukuk due November 2014 has narrowed 22 basis points to
350 this month, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Lack of Creation’  The Islamic finance industry has been growing 20 percent
annually since 2000, bringing it into direct competition with
non-Shariah-compliant global banking without offering a
comparable level of liquidity and returns, according to an IFSB
 report  issued in April. It estimated assets will reach $1.6
trillion by 2012 compared with $660 billion in 2007. Revenues
may rise to $120 billion from $53 billion, it predicted.  “There’s a lack of creation in Islamic money-market
instruments and the market needs a lot of them,” said  Khalid Abu Khadra , assistant treasury manager at Saudi Investment Bank.
“There’s also a problem with the mismatch of maturity, so if
this could work in harmony across all jurisdictions, then we
have one less barrier to growth.”  Malaysia, the world’s biggest market for Islamic bonds,
Bahrain and Indonesia sell bills to help soak up cash in the
financial system and set benchmarks for short-term bond sales.  Pakistan plans to sell sukuk maturing in a year or less in
the domestic market as it seeks to double Shariah banking and
attract investors from the Persian Gulf, spokesman  Syed Wasimuddin  said in an e-mail in July. The United Arab Emirates
is looking at issuing short-term bills that comply with
religious principles once regulations are passed, central bank
Governor  Sultan bin Nasser al-Suwaidi  said in March.  ‘Liability Mismatch’  The U.A.E.’s eight Islamic banks held $49.8 billion of
deposits at the end of 2009, or about 19 percent of the total,
according to the central bank. Malaysia has 21.8 billion ringgit
($7.03 billion) of Shariah-compliant bills outstanding,
according to the central bank’s website.  “If you are going to fund your long-term investment with
short-term liabilities like customer deposits, you run an asset-
liability mismatch,”  Malek Temsah , a treasury and investment
manager at Albaraka Banking, said in an interview yesterday.
“This, as the global credit crisis showed, is dangerous. You
could end up in a liquidity freeze.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 