-- Singapore Economy Probably Slowed, Reducing Scope for Faster Currency Gain
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   J a y   W a n g
-- 2010-10-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/singapore-economy-probably-slowed-reducing-scope-for-faster-currency-gain.html
Singapore’s economy probably cooled
after a record first-half expansion as manufacturing growth
eased, reducing pressure on the central bank to allow a faster
pace of currency appreciation.  Gross domestic product growth slowed to 10.8 percent in the
three months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, from 18.8
percent in the second quarter, according to the median estimate
of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The  economy  shrank an
annualized 15.7 percent from the previous three months, after
expanding 24 percent in the April-to-June period, the median of
19 estimates  showed . The data is due at 8 a.m. tomorrow.  Japan has taken steps in the past month to cool gains in
the yen and China has restrained the yuan’s advance, making it
harder for Singaporean exporters to compete with regional rivals.
Forgoing a faster appreciation in the island’s currency may help
support overseas sales by companies including  Hi-P International
Ltd . amid signs global growth is slowing.  “There is little impetus for the central bank to act” as
Singapore’s economic momentum moderates, said  Irvin Seah , an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore. “Monetary
tightening, capacity constraints and to a lesser degree,
withdrawal of fiscal support, will soon bring growth down to a
slower but more sustainable level across the region.”  The Singapore dollar has gained 7.2 percent against the U.S.
currency this year, making it the third-best performer in Asia
excluding Japan.  Balancing Risks  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore , which uses the
currency rather than a benchmark interest rate as its main tool
to manage  inflation , will refrain from allowing faster gains at
tomorrow’s twice-yearly review, according to 13 out of 14
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  At its April monetary policy review, the central bank said
it would shift the Singapore dollar to a stronger range to trade
in and allow a gradual appreciation.  The Asian Development Bank said last month governments in
the region should sustain their economic expansion by refraining
from tightening fiscal and monetary policies “too quickly.” The
Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 unexpectedly cut its benchmark rate for
the first time since 2008, while Australia and Indonesia left
their key rates unchanged on the same day.  Singapore’s manufacturing increased in August by less than
a sixth of the pace in April, when the MAS tightened its policy.
 The International Monetary Fund  last week lowered its 2011
forecast for world growth, citing high unemployment, public debt
and fragile banking systems as risks.  Europe, U.S.  Europe’s services and manufacturing industries grew at a
slower pace while the U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s
 factory index  fell to a 10-month low in September.  Singapore’s economy is still likely to grow within the
government’s forecast range of 13 percent to 15 percent this
year, even after the slowdown in the third quarter, said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Capital Economics (Asia) Pte in
Singapore. That pace would put Singapore in the running to be
the world’s fastest-growing nation in 2010, after a record 17.9
percent expansion in the first half.  “The economic upswing is just slowing to a pace that is
more normal and can be sustained in 2011,” Varathan said.
“Exports and manufacturing growth will inevitably ease further
in the coming quarters but the pick-up in the services sector
should stay rapid.”  Lure of Casinos  Singapore’s services industry may support the economy as
the two casino resorts opened by  Genting Singapore Plc  and Las
Vegas Sands Corp. this year attract tourists. More financial
companies are also setting up offices in the city amid
government efforts to make the nation a hub from which banks and
asset managers can serve clients across Asia and the Middle East.  New York-based buyout and hedge-fund firm Fortress
Investment Group LLC, which managed $41.7 billion as of June 30,
will have an investment team of about 10 people in its new
office in Singapore, according to  Adam Levinson , its co-chief
investment officer of global macro funds. Levinson will also
move to Singapore to lead the company’s expansion in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  