-- SKS Former CEO Gurumani, Management Had Conflicts After IPO, Akula Says
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-10-12T15:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/sks-former-ceo-gurumani-management-had-conflicts-after-ipo-akula-says.html
SKS Microfinance Ltd. ’s Chairman
 Vikram Akula  said conflicts emerged between former Managing
Director  Suresh Gurumani  and the management after the company’s
initial public offering, leading to his termination.  SKS, India’s largest micro-finance lender, replaced
Gurumani with M.R. Rao on Oct. 4, four years before the end of
Gurumani’s term. “There were no problems with the performance
of the previous MD” Akula told reporters in Mumbai today.  After the company’s IPO, which raised $366 million in
August, “the dynamics of the micro-finance industry changed,”
Akula said.  “There were many more new entrants in the field after the
IPO,” said Akula, who was appointed executive chairman of the
company on Sept. 7. “We needed a seasoned management team that
can dispel misunderstandings at a grass root level.”  In July, SKS’ board approved a compensation package for
Gurumani that included an increment of 52 percent and a bonus of
1.5 million rupees ($33,583). The compensation was determined
based on his performance in the previous year, Akula said. All
deliberations by the board on firing Gurumani happened after the
IPO, he said.  SKS shares have declined 0.5 percent since Oct. 4, when the
lender replaced Gurumani with Rao. The stock rose 3.1 percent at
the 3:30 p.m. close on the  Bombay Stock Exchange  today, bringing
gains since its Aug. 10 initial public offering to 29 percent.  ‘Unanimous’ Firing  The board first discussed parting ways with Gurumani on
Sept. 27 and tried to reach a settlement with him. When the
attempt failed, it “unanimously” decided to fire him, Akula
said.  Gurumani, who worked at banks including  Barclays Plc  and
 Standard Chartered Plc  before joining SKS in Nov. 2008, was not
equipped to handle the “new industry dynamic,” said Akula.
There was no power tussle between him and Gurumani, Akula said.  The Hyderabad-based lender’s profit almost tripled in the
three months ended June 30 from a year earlier.  The company will “continue to be a great performer,” said
 Paresh Patel , chief executive officer at SKS investor Sandstone
Capital, who also addressed media at the event. “The change in
management only strengthens the story.” Questions over
Gurumani’s firing “will fade away,” he said.  “As the largest shareholder in SKS, as an early
shareholder in SKS, I could not be more comfortable,” said
 Sumir Chadha , managing director of Sequoia Capital India
Advisors Pvt.  Sequoia has a 15 percent stake in the company.
“Microfinance is a huge opportunity in India and SKS is a
dominant leader,” Chadha said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  