-- Societe Generale Begins Marketing Four-Year Kangaroo Bonds in First Sale
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m
-- 2010-10-13T06:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/societe-generale-begins-marketing-four-year-kangaroo-bonds-in-first-sale.html
Societe Generale SA , France’s
second-biggest bank, began marketing at least A$300 million
($295 million) of four-year kangaroo bonds in its debut sale of
the notes.  The Paris-based lender hired Commonwealth Bank of
Australia, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and UBS AG
for the sale, which may price tomorrow, according to an e-mailed
statement from Commonwealth Bank. The fixed- and floating-rate
notes may yield about 150 basis points more than swap rates,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified because the details are private.  Borrowers have sold a record A$33.4 billion of kangaroo
bonds this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit
Agricole SA , France’s third-largest bank, last week raised A$900
million in its first issue of kangaroo bonds, after initially
planning to sell at least A$300 million of notes.  “After the success of the Credit Agricole issue, the
European banks, particularly the French, see that there’s good
appetite for their paper,”  John Manning , Sydney-based senior
credit strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said by
phone today. “It also gives them an attractive opportunity to
diversify their funding and take advantage of the basis swap.”  Borrowers typically use cross-currency basis swaps to
exchange floating-rate payments in one currency to another. The
Australian dollar-euribor five-year basis swap closed at 49 1/2
basis points yesterday after averaging 25 basis points since
October 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Kangaroo bonds are
Australian dollar-denominated debt sold by foreign issuers in
Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  