-- Soco Shares Plunge on Plans to Plug Its Vietnam Oil Well on Low Flow Rates
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-10-12T08:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/soco-plunges-on-plans-to-plug-abandon-vietnam-oil-well-on-low-flow-rates.html
Soco International Plc , a U.K.
energy explorer in Africa and Southeast Asia, plunged in London
trading after saying it will plug and abandon its appraisal well
off the coast of Vietnam.  The  shares  fell as much as 23 percent to 348.8 pence, the
most in 12 years, and traded at 371.7 pence at 9:16 a.m. The  Te
Giac Den appraisal well, or TGD-2X , found hydrocarbons and
“produced both black oil and gas,” which “flowed at sub-
commercial rates,” Soco said today in a statement.  “It’s shocking for us,” Soco Chief Financial Officer
 Roger Cagle  said today by phone. “In this particular well, it’s
certainly a different result than we were expecting. We have
tons of oil. The problem is that we don’t have enough gas” in
the reservoir for the crude to flow to the surface, he said.  Soco fell the most in 20 months Sept. 3 after deciding to
plug and abandon its first well in the Nganzi block onshore the
Democratic Republic of Congo. The explorer planned to quadruple
recoverable oil reserves as it targeted 700 million barrels of
resources, Chief Executive Officer  Ed Story  said in August.  “The surprise failure of the TGD appraisal in Vietnam is
likely to leave the company with few options to drive the share
price in the near future,”  Richard Griffith , a London-based
analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd., wrote to clients today. He
downgraded Soco shares to “Sell” from “Reduce.”  Soco has also completed two offshore wells in the TGD
development, which will pump crude in mid-2011, the London-based
company said today.  Soco is examining plans and may continue to explore and
appraise the TGD area in Block 16-1, Cagle said.  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl, Thailand’s only publicly
traded oil and gas explorer, and Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, the
state-owned producer known as PetroVietnam, are the partners in
the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  