-- Sonangol of Angola and S.Africa' s PetroSA Considering Oil Joint Venture
-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 2010-10-12T16:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/sonangol-of-angola-petrosa-considering-joint-venture-update1-.html
Sonangol SA, Angola’s state-run oil
company, and South Africa’s PetroSA Ltd. are considering setting
up a joint venture to build and manage oil refineries, Angola’s
oil ministry said.  Officials from the two southern African countries held
talks in the Angolan capital, Luanda, over five days to discuss
cooperation in the oil industry, the ministry said in a
statement handed to Bloomberg News today.  “The parties are considering the possibility of creating a
joint venture between Sonangol and PetroSA to construct and
manage refineries and finished petroleum products,” it said.  PetroSA, South Africa’s state-owned oil and gas company,
can produce the equivalent of about 45,000 barrels of oil a day
at its Mossel Bay plant, according to the South African
Petroleum Industry Association, and has been studying building a
$9 billion, 400,000 barrel-a-day oil refinery for about three
years.  Angola is sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest oil producer,
according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The
planned  Lobito  refinery will have a capacity of 200,000 barrels
a day. The country’s only other refinery has a maximum capacity
of 41,000 barrels a day.  The governments may sign a memorandum of understanding when
Angola’s President Jose Eduardo dos Santos visits South Africa,
the oil ministry said, without giving a date for the trip.
PetroSA wants to import oil and liquefied natural gas from
Angola, it said.  “Angola briefed South Africa about its new oil exploration
strategy which will be approved at the end of 2010, providing an
opportunity for PetroSA to take part in license bidding,” the
oil ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  