-- Sony Offers Four TV Models, Blu-ray Player With Google Software
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2010-10-13T04:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/sony-offers-four-tv-models-blu-ray-player-with-google-software.html
Sony Corp.  unveiled four Internet-
enabled televisions for the U.S. that use Google Inc. software
to let viewers access websites and Web videos, betting consumer
demand for online content will revive slowing TV sales in the
U.S. market.  The largest model, the 46-inch LED Sony Internet TV set,
will sell for $1,399.99 and include a new remote created to make
it easy to type in information for Web searches, the company
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Sony, based in Tokyo, joins  Logitech International SA  and
 Intel Corp.  in backing  Google ’s effort to make it easy for
consumers to use the Internet and watch TV at the same time. The
companies are capitalizing on growing demand for Web-based
programming and information on large screens, competing against
devices such as  Apple Inc. ’s Apple TV.  Internet connectivity is Sony’s focus as demand remains
weak in the U.S. even after introduction of 3-D models, said
 Nobuo Kurahashi , an analyst at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in
Tokyo. “Internet TV is still at a nascent stage and the content
lineup will be crucial to lure customers.”  TV shipment volume in North America dropped 3 percent in
the second quarter, while worldwide shipments rose 26 percent,
according to  researcher  DisplaySearch. U.S. sales of 3-D sets
were less than expected,  Yoshihisa Ishida , president of Sony’s
home-entertainment business group, said in August.  Sony rose 0.5 percent to 2,600 yen as of 1:40 p.m. in Tokyo
 trading , in line the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average’s gain.
Google advanced 0.5 percent to $541.39 in Nasdaq Stock Market
yesterday.  Retail Prices  The TVs are expected to be available at  Best Buy Co.  and
SonyStyle retail stores by Oct. 16, Jeff Goldstein, Sony’s vice
president of Connected Home Products & Services Home Division,
said in an interview.  Sony will sell the 40-inch, 32-inch and 24-inch models for
$999.99, $799.99 and $599.99 respectively. The company will also
offer a Blu-ray DVD player with Internet connectivity for
$399.99.  “The prices don’t look too high compared with Sony’s
existing models,” said  Michiko Kakiya , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. “I doubt if Sony will be able to make a
profit on the models. I’m not sure if they’ll have a positive
impact on Sony’s earnings.”  The TVs will offer Web services including the Sony online
movie and TV service Qriocity, Pandora, YouTube, Napster and
Twitter, according to the statement.  Android Software  Google plans to extend its Web TV service from U.S.
viewers to audiences globally in 2011, Chief Executive Officer
 Eric Schmidt  said last month. The TV sets will work with Intel’s
chips in products by Sony and Logitech, Google said in May.  The software was adapted from Mountain View, California-
based Google’s Android operating system and Chrome Internet
browser to display TV programming from cable and satellite
sources and video from the Web. Applications written for
existing versions of Android, used in mobile phones, will now
work on TV screens.  Logitech, based in Romanel-sur-Morges, Switzerland, on Oct.
6 introduced its own Google TV product, Revue, that will sell
for $299.99 and includes a keyboard that doubles as a remote
control.  The service will include video-on-demand features from
Amazon.com Inc. and  Netflix Inc. , Google has said.  Logitech  is offering a $149.99 high-definition video camera
that will work with the Revue to provide video calls from the
sofa. The company is also selling a smaller keyboard for $129.99.  Cupertino, California-based  Apple  unveiled a lower-priced
version of its Apple TV set-top box on Sept. 1. The $99 device
offers high-definition TV programs, which viewers can watch for
99 cents, and works with Netflix’s online service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net .
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 