-- Spain, Netherlands, Germany Stay Perfect in Euro 2012 Soccer Qualifying
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-12T22:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/spain-netherlands-germany-stay-perfect-in-euro-2012-soccer-qualifying.html
Defending champion Spain, the
Netherlands and Germany won to maintain perfect starts to
qualifying for soccer’s 2012 European Championship.  Spain won 3-2 at Scotland, the Netherlands was a 4-1
winner against Sweden and Germany won 3-0 in Kazakhstan.
England and Montenegro tied 0-0, while the game between
Italy and Serbia in Genoa was abandoned early in the first
half because of crowd trouble.  Fernando Llorente’s goal in the 79th minute gave world
and European champion Spain the win in the Group I match in
Glasgow.  David Villa  and  Andres Iniesta  scored to give the
visitors a 2-0 lead before Scotland drew even on a score
from Steven Naismith and an own-goal from  Gerard Pique .  Spain tops the group with nine points after its third
straight win. The Czech Republic moved into second place
with six points after a 2-0 win in Liechtenstein.  Klaas-Jan Huntelaar and  Ibrahim Afellay  each scored
twice as the Netherlands made it four wins out of four in
Group E by routing Sweden in Amsterdam. Hungary won 2-1 in
Finland to move into second place, three points behind the
Dutch.  Miroslav Klose ,  Mario Gomez  and  Lukas Podolski  scored
as Germany won in Kazakhstan. The Germans have 12 points to
top Group A, five more than Austria, which tied 4-4 at
Belgium. Azerbaijan beat Turkey 1-0 in the other group
match.  Montenegro and England both lost their perfect records
in Group G with their goalless draw in London. Milan
Jovanovic hit the crossbar for the visitors with seven
minutes left.  Montenegro tops the group with 10 points, three more
than England, which has played one fewer game. Switzerland
beat Wales 4-1 in the other group game.  Italy-Serbia Abandoned  Italy’s Group C game with Serbia was halted after six
minutes by flares thrown onto the field by the visiting
fans, according to the website of European soccer’s
governing body UEFA. The match had been delayed 35 minutes
at the start by crowd disturbances, UEFA said.  Slovenia won 1-0 at Estonia and shares the group lead
with Italy, which has played one fewer game. Northern
Ireland rallied for a 1-1 tie at the Faroe Islands in the
other group match.  Karim Benzema  and Yoann Gourcuff scored as France beat
Luxembourg 2-0 in Group D. The French maintain their one-
point lead over Belarus, which also won 2-0 against
Albania.  Russia moved atop Group B with nine points after a 1-0
win in Macedonia. Armenia beat Andorra 4-0 to sit in a
second-place tie with seven points with Slovakia and
Ireland, who tied 1-1.  Greece Atop Group  Greece defeated Israel 2-1 to move one point ahead of
idle Croatia at the top of Group F. Georgia is two points
behind after a 1-1 draw in Latvia.  Portugal won 3-1 at Iceland to close within two points
of Norway in Group H. Denmark beat Cyprus 2-0 in the final
group game.  The next round of qualifying matches in all groups
will be played in March. The nine group winners, along with
the second-place team with the most points, qualify for
Euro 2012 with hosts Poland and Ukraine. The remaining
eight second-place teams will have playoffs for the final
four spots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  