-- Standard Chartered Suspended After $11 Billion Stock Sale Report
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-10-13T03:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/standard-chartered-plans-to-raise-11-billion-to-bolster-capital-ft-says.html
Standard Chartered Plc  shares were
suspended from trading in Hong Kong after the Financial Times
reported the bank plans to raise as much as 7 billion pounds
($11 billion) in a rights offer to bolster its capital.  The London-based lender may announce a plan as early as
this week to sell 5 billion pounds to 7 billion pounds of stock,
the FT said, citing unidentified people. Temasek Holdings Pte,
Standard Chartered’s  largest shareholder  with a 17.7 percent
stake, is likely to subscribe to a rights offer, said a person
with knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified.  Central bankers told executives in Washington last weekend
to expect more stringent capital rules, especially for the
largest firms, after international regulators set minimum
standards in Basel last month. Standard Chartered Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Sands  said last week he’s concerned that
diverging rules could deny banks a level playing field.  “If the bank foresees there’s a chance that regulators
will impose more stringent rules on capital requirements, it’s
possible for them to raise funds despite their currently strong
capital status,” said  Ivan Li , deputy head of Hong Kong
research at Kim Eng Securities (HK) Ltd.  A share sale would make Standard Chartered the second large
international lender after  Deutsche Bank AG  to respond directly
to the Basel III proposals, the FT said. Deutsche Bank,
Germany’s largest lender, raised 10.2 billion euros ($14.2
billion) this month.  ‘War Chest’  Standard Chartered, which gets more than three quarters of
its  earnings from Asia , posted record six-month profit of $2.15
billion for the first half of 2010 as provisions for bad loans
fell. Its shares gained 21 percent in London this year, compared
with a 4.6 percent increase in the benchmark FTSE 100 Index.  Standard Chartered declined to comment, spokesman Jon
Tracey said by telephone.  Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman for Temasek,
Singapore’s state-owned investment company, had no comment.  Temasek  invested in Standard Chartered’s 1.8 billion-pound
rights offer in December 2008, three months after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sparked a global financial
panic. Unlike U.K. rivals like Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
Standard Chartered didn’t require a government bailout.  At $11 billion, the offer would represent 52 percent of
Standard Chartered’s core  Tier 1 capital  as of June 30, said
 John Wadle , an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd.  “For that amount of money, Standard Chartered could be
building a war chest for some kind of acquisition,” Wadle said.
“They have plenty of cash for their current business.”  Swiss Rules  The lender’s current Tier 1 capital ratio against risk-
weighted assets was 9 percent, above the 7 percent minimum
required by the Basel III rules, which will be fully implemented
by 2019, the FT said. Capital calculations may change before
then, meaning a 9 percent ratio today may be worth as little as
6 percent once the new rules are in force, the newspaper said.  Some countries and policy makers are urging standards above
the Basel III minimum for the world’s largest lenders. A Swiss
government-appointed panel last week proposed the first capital
surcharge on too-big-to-fail banks, saying  UBS AG  and Credit
Suisse Group AG need to hold almost double the capital required
under Basel III rules.  “We never expected 100 percent uniform implementation of
Basel rules worldwide, but we’re worried about too much
divergence,” Sands, 48, said at a meeting of the Institute of
International Finance in Washington last week.  India Stock Sale  Standard Chartered raised about $540 million in a share
sale in India in May, underscoring its strategy of focusing on
faster-growing emerging markets. The bank considered making a
bid for South Africa’s Nedbank Group Ltd., a person with
knowledge of the matter said that month.  Old Mutual Plc said in August it was in talks to sell a
controlling stake in Nedbank to  HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s
largest lender. In July, HSBC said it wanted to expand in Africa
as more companies in Asia trade with the continent.  “Standard Chartered is not present in Latin America and
under-represented in Africa,” said Wadle of Mirae Asset.
“Investment banking, securities and private banking are also
areas that the bank wants to scale over time.”  To contact the reporters on this story
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Tong  in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  