-- Stimulus of $1 Trillion Adds Nothing to Deficit: Frank Aquila
-- B y   F r a n k   A q u i l a
-- 2010-10-12T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/stimulus-of-1-trillion-adds-nothing-to-deficit-frank-aquila.html
Imagine if American companies could
add more than $1 trillion to their domestic coffers in an
instant without selling a subsidiary, issuing a single share or
incurring a penny of debt.  While every company would no doubt use this cash
differently, the windfall could fund a return of capital to
shareholders through increased dividends and share buybacks. Or
it could be used to repay debt, fund capital expenditures or
make strategic acquisitions.  How the companies would deploy the money doesn’t matter.
The important thing is that the cash would be put to work. So
why hasn’t this already happened?  The answer is clear: U.S. tax policies penalize the
repatriation of so-called foreign-source income, essentially the
profits earned by foreign subsidiaries of American corporations.
This cash pile isn’t being hoarded or held on the sidelines, as
many pundits have suggested; rather, it is being kept offshore
by our own tax structure.  Unlike most countries, the U.S. taxes the profits earned
overseas by its corporations. The federal tax code then defers
the tax on the non-domestic profits until the corporation brings
those profits into the U.S. Since repatriating these profits
means incurring a tax of as much as 35 percent, most overseas
profits remain offshore.  Given the weak economy and the debate over the need for
additional stimulus and further quantitative easing by the
Federal Reserve, bringing home hundreds of billions, possibly
trillions, of dollars should be a priority. Although most
companies would retain some overseas cash for their non-U.S.
operations, clearly most companies have far more cash abroad
than is needed.  Largest Stimulus  Repatriation on such a scale would in effect be the largest
economic stimulus ever. Not only would the cash go right where
it is needed the most -- the private sector -- but it wouldn’t
add a single dollar to the  federal budget deficit . Actually, the
economic growth created through the use of this cash would
generate billions in additional tax revenue.  Most successful U.S. multinational companies face the
dilemma: Keep the cash overseas or bring the profits home and
pay the tax bill.  This isn’t a merely theoretical debate about tax policy.
Last month Microsoft Corp. said it would sell as much as $6
billion in debt to fund dividend payments even though it has
about $37 billion in cash and short-term investments on its
books. Since most of its cash is overseas, borrowing makes
better economic sense because the cost of borrowing is far lower
than the tax.  Cash on Sidelines  Microsoft isn’t alone.  Cisco Systems Inc. , whose Chief
Executive Officer  John Chambers  is a vocal critic of U.S. tax
policy, has an estimated $30 billion in cash outside the U.S.
Dell Inc., Hewlett­Packard Co., International Business Machines
Corp. and Intel Corp. are other leading tech companies with
significant cash overseas. Pharmaceutical giants Johnson &
Johnson, Merck & Co., and Pfizer Inc. also have billions in un-
repatriated foreign profits.  A tax holiday on returning overseas cash isn’t without
precedent. In 2004, the Homeland Investment Act reduced the tax
rate on these profits to 5.25 percent from 35 percent. Granted a
lower tax rate, U.S. corporations responded by shipping back an
estimated $315 billion in 2004.  Critics of any reduction in taxes on repatriated overseas
profits, even a temporary one, argue that to do so would be
rewarding companies for outsourcing U.S. jobs. Not surprisingly,
labor unions and their allies are the leading opponents of a tax
holiday. In their view, overseas profits should be subject to
U.S. tax even if those profits are never repatriated.  Obama’s Support  President  Barack Obama  supports that position. The current
tax provisions provide a loophole that “has actually given
billions of dollars in tax breaks that encourage companies to
create jobs and profits in other countries,” according to the
president. Key members of Congress agree with the president.  This rhetoric is fueled by a broad mischaracterization of
the purpose and effect of international growth and investment by
U.S. companies. Unions and their allies in Congress see all such
moves as simply outsourcing American jobs.  While that may be the case in a small percentage of
situations, the reality is different. Rather than weaken the
economy, successful multinational companies have been engines of
growth. As Harvard Business School professor Mihir Desai has
noted, when U.S. businesses “expand abroad they expand at
home.”  Companies that prosper internationally expand their
research, development, management, human resources, information
technology, marketing and financial teams, and most of those new
jobs wind up right here in the U.S.  Strings Attached  In fairness, not all labor leaders oppose lower taxes on
repatriation of overseas profits.  Andy Stern , president emeritus
of the  Service Employees International Union , has proposed
cutting the tax on repatriated overseas profits to 5.25 percent.
There’s a big string attached: The tax revenue raised would fund
programs designed to create jobs in the U.S.  Others who oppose a tax holiday point to a  study  by the
National Bureau of Economic Research that showed a large
percentage of the funds repatriated in 2004 were used for
dividends and share buybacks.  While those findings are probably accurate, this misses the
point. Pumping new cash into the economy will have a positive
impact. Even if companies simply return the capital to their
shareholders, that is a positive outcome since investors will
either spend the cash or reinvest it.  Tax Holiday  Former Clinton Undersecretary of Commerce  Robert J. Shapiro 
agrees, concluding that “the repatriation of overseas profits
would certainly be in the economy’s interest.”  Amid a stagnant economy, high  unemployment , and ballooning
federal and state budget deficits, Congress and the president
need to eliminate or sharply reduce the taxes on the
repatriation of profits earned around the world.  With an era of slow growth here and rapid expansion in
China, India and Brazil, our tax policy needs to recognize that
an increasing share of corporate profits will be earned outside
the country. U.S. tax policy should create incentives for
companies to seek growth and expansion around the world,
wherever and whenever those opportunities arise -- the sooner,
the better.  ( Frank Aquila  is a partner at the law firm Sullivan &
Cromwell. A version of this column appears on BusinessWeek.com.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Frank Aquila  aquilaf@sullcrom.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
William Andrews at   wandrews7@bloomberg.net  