-- U.S. Stocks Erase Drop as Minutes Show Fed Prepared to Buy Bonds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2010-10-12T18:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/stocks-in-u-s-erase-drop-as-minutes-show-fed-prepared-to-buy-treasuries.html
U.S. stocks erased declines as
minutes from the Federal Reserve’s last meeting showed policy
makers were ready to pump more cash into the economy to protect
the recovery.  American Express Co., Alcoa Inc. and Bank of America Corp.
climbed at least 1.8 percent to lead gains in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average. King Pharmaceuticals Inc. surged 39 percent
after Pfizer Inc. agreed to buy the drugmaker for $3.6 billion
in cash. Starbucks Corp. rallied 4.6 percent after Credit Suisse
Group AG raised earnings estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.1 percent to
1,166.17 at 2:25 p.m. in New York after sliding 0.8 percent
earlier. The Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped 7.65 points,
or 0.1 percent, to 11,002.69 after earlier tumbling as much as
97 points.  “The minutes supported the general notion that the Federal
Reserve will be engaged in quantitative easing,” said  David Kovacs , head of quantitative strategies at Turner Investment
Partners in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, which manages $19 billion.
“There is pretty strong empirical evidence that when there is
quantitative easing, the liquidity that’s been added to the
system finds its way into equities and there is a substantial
rally.”  Benchmark indexes erased earlier declines as minutes from
the Fed’s meeting last month showed policy makers were prepared
to ease monetary policy “before long” and focused on purchases
of Treasury securities and boosting inflation expectations as
ways to add stimulus.  ‘Most Effective Framework’  Policy makers “wanted to consider further the most
effective framework for calibrating and communicating any
additional steps to provide such stimulus,” the Fed said in
minutes of the Sept. 21 session, released today in Washington.
The Fed also said for the first time that it was considering
targeting a path for the level of nominal gross domestic product
as a way to increase price expectations.  The Fed will announce roughly $500 billion of Treasury
purchases through to the middle of 2011 and indicate they are
ready to buy more to help the U.S. avoid the “very bad”
economic outcome of a renewed recession,  Jan Hatzius , Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s New York-based chief U.S. economist, said in
a note.  Companies reporting third-quarter results after the market
closes today include Intel Corp., the world’s biggest maker of
semiconductors, and CSX Corp., the third-largest U.S. railroad
by revenue. JPMorgan Chase & Co. will post results tomorrow, the
first major bank to do so.  Eighteen companies in the S&P 500 are scheduled to release
third-quarter results this week, the second week of the
reporting period. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict 23
percent profit growth from a year earlier for companies in the
index, the fourth straight quarterly increase after a record
nine-quarter slump.  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Regan
at   mregan12@bloomberg.net  