-- Germany's Benchmark DAX Index Drops; E.ON, RWE Fall as Daimler Shares Rise
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-12T16:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/stocks-decline-in-germany-adidas-infineon-thyssenkrupp-lead-the-retreat.html
German stocks declined, ending the
longest winning streak in two months, as losses by utility
companies overshadowed a rally in  Daimler AG  shares.  E.ON AG  and  RWE AG , Germany’s largest utilities, fell as
UBS AG said it expects an increase in oversupply in the power
markets, while  ThyssenKrupp AG  dropped 1.1 percent after South
Korean steelmaker Posco cut its full-year profit forecast.
Daimler surged 3.3 percent as UBS upgraded the stock, and
 Fresenius SE  increased 1.2 percent as Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc suggested investors buy the shares.  The benchmark  DAX Index  declined 0.1 percent to 6,304.57 at
the close in Frankfurt. The measure advanced 1.3 percent last
week as investors speculated that the U.S. Federal Reserve and
other central banks will step in to provide more stimulus for
the ailing global recovery. The broader HDAX Index also slid 0.1
percent today.  “Market anticipation regarding a new round of Fed
quantitative easing has reached a frenzy in recent weeks,” UBS
strategist  Jeffrey Palma  wrote in a report dated yesterday.
“There is risk of tactical disappointment given how far
expectations have moved.”  European equity markets gained last week amid speculation
that the U.S. Federal Reserve will announce plans to stimulate
economic growth at its Nov. 2-3 meeting. The Fed will release
minutes from its September gathering after the close of European
equity markets today.  Utilities Fall  E.ON and RWE dropped 1.7 percent to 21.13 euros and 2.1
percent to 48 euros, respectively. UBS, which said in a note
that it expects “oversupply in power markets to increase in
2011-12, with no improvement until 2013,” kept both stocks
among its “least favorite” European utilities.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker, declined 1.1
percent to 25.39 euros. Posco, the world’s third-largest, cut
its full-year profit forecast by 7 percent and reported the
first decline in earnings in four quarters.  Deutsche Post AG  slid 1.3 percent to 13.02 euros. Morgan
Stanley lowered its price estimate on Europe’s biggest mail
carrier to 15 euros from 16 euros.  “We think Deutsche Post’s valuation remains reasonable,
but we are equal-weight the shares as we remain concerned about
structural challenges that DP’s Mail business faces,” the
brokerage said in a note.  Sky Deutschland AG sank 3.3 percent to 82 euro cents. DZ
Bank AG reiterated a “sell” rating on the pay-television
operator and cut its price estimate to 92 euro cents from 1.12
euros, citing “the low visibility of further developments as
well as the ongoing loss-making situation.”  NFL Contract  Adidas AG , the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
fell 1.3 percent to 46.48 euros. The company’s Reebok unit may
lose a contract with the National Football League, CNBC
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the
situation.  Daimler rose 3.3 percent to 47.43 euros. UBS lifted its
recommendation on the company to “buy” from “neutral,”
saying “the stock has lagged both the truck and the premium-car
share-price recoveries.”  Volkswagen AG  preferred stock increased 0.7 percent to
91.17 euros, as the automaker reported its sales in China rose
39 percent in the first nine months of the year. Separately,
HSBC Holdings Plc raised its price estimate to 124 euros from
115 euros.  Fresenius rose 1.2 percent to 58.48 euros. Royal Bank of
Scotland Group initiated coverage of the health-care company
with a “buy” rating. The brokerage set a price estimate of 65
euros for the stock.  SAP AG  gained 1.1 percent to 37.28 euros. HSBC increased
its price estimate on the world’s biggest maker of business-
management software to 40 euros from 38 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 