-- Canadian Stocks Fluctuate as Fuel Prices Drop, Agrium Advances
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-12T18:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/stocks-fall-in-toronto-day-after-fuel-prices-drop-agrium-gains-with-corn.html
Canadian stocks  swung between gains
and losses as oil and gas producers dropped after fuel prices
declined for a second day while agriculture companies advanced
on higher crop prices.  Talisman Energy Inc., an oil and gas producer with
operations in North America, the North Sea and Indonesia, lost 1
percent as Canadian markets reopened after the Thanksgiving
holiday yesterday. Agrium Inc., Canada’s  second-biggest 
fertilizer producer, rose 4.6 percent after corn futures
advanced to a two-year high.  Teck Resources Ltd., which sells coal to Chinese steel
producers, decreased 1.5 percent after three people with
knowledge of the matter said China raised reserve requirements
for six banks.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 16.93
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,552.52 as of 2:12 p.m. in Toronto.
The index has gained four straight weeks as investors speculated
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will start a new round
of asset purchases, a policy known as quantitative easing.  “We’ve had a very robust move based on the expectation
that Bernanke is going to come in with an amazing QE, and that
will push up prices of everything,” said  Todd Johnson , who
helps oversee C$230 million ($227 million) at BCV Asset
Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba. “It can get into overbought
territory and correct somewhat.”  Commodities Rallied  The S&P/TSX climbed  3.6 percent  during the period, led by
energy and raw-materials stocks. Commodities rallied as the U.S.
dollar slumped to a nine-month low against a basket of world
currencies amid concerns that new stimulus measures will weaken
the American currency.  Natural gas futures have fallen 1.5 percent over the past
two days to a 12-month low as weather forecasts indicated U.S.
heating demand will be below normal this week. Crude oil slipped
0.3 percent to $81.25 a barrel today in New York after dropping
0.5 percent yesterday.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., the country’s second-
largest energy company by market value, declined 0.6 percent to
C$37.74. Suncor Energy Inc., Canada’s largest oil and gas
producer, lost 0.7 percent to C$34.80.  Talisman Energy decreased 1 percent to C$17.98 after
announcing it will contribute $485 million to a Texas oil shale
joint venture with Norway’s Statoil ASA. Questerre Energy Corp.,
which is developing shale gas deposits in Quebec, jumped 8.9
percent to C$1.95.  Harvest Estimate  Agriculture companies advanced a day after corn for
December delivery jumped 5.2 percent to a two-year high. Corn
has soared 12 percent since Oct. 7, the day before the U.S.
Agriculture Department cut its harvest estimate.  Agrium, which is also a retail fertilizer supplier, rallied
4.6 percent from a two-year high to C$85.87. Viterra Inc.,
Canada’s largest grain handler, increased 1.6 percent to C$9.60.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., Canada’s largest
fertilizer producer, climbed 1 percent to C$149.04 two days
after the Sunday Times reported the Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan is in talks with Temasek Holdings Pte about a possible bid
for the company.  Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman for Singapore’s
Temasek, and Ontario Teachers’ spokeswoman  Deborah Allan 
declined to comment. BHP Billiton Ltd. has an outstanding,
unsolicited $130 a share bid for Potash Corp.  Producers of coal and metals used in industry retreated
after people who declined to be identified said China increased
the reserve requirement by 50 basis points for banks including
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and China
Construction Bank Corp. China is the world’s largest consumer of
coal and copper.  Teck Declines  Teck, Canada’s largest base-metals and coal producer, fell
1.5 percent to C$44.33. First Quantum Minerals Ltd., the
country’s second-biggest publicly traded copper producer,
dropped 4.6 percent to C$80.72 after  Kerry Smith , an analyst at
Haywood Securities Inc., cut his rating on the shares to
“sector perform” from “sector outperform.”  Gold stocks declined as the metal lost 0.4 percent from a
record high. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the currency
against the Euro, British pound, Swiss franc, Japanese yen,
Canadian dollar and Swedish Krona, rose to a one-week high.  Goldcorp Inc., the world’s second-largest gold producer by
market value, decreased 1.1 percent to C$44.05. Barrick Gold
Corp., the world’s No. 1 producer, slipped 0.5 percent to
C$48.85. Kinross Gold Corp., Canada’s third-biggest producer,
retreated 0.9 percent to C$19.08.  Canadian National Railway Co., the country’s largest
railroad, slumped 1.7 percent to C$65.55 after  John G. Larkin ,
an analyst at Stifel Nicholas & Co., reduced his rating on the
stock to “hold” from “buy.” Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd.,
Canada’s second-biggest railroad, fell 1.5 percent to C$64.20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 