-- U.K. Stocks Decline as House-Price Gauge Drops; Xstrata Falls
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-10-12T16:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/stocks-decline-as-house-price-gauge-slidew-xstrata-j-sainsbury-retreat.html
U.K. stocks slid for the third time
in four days as mining companies declined and a gauge of U.K.
house prices dropped to a 16-month low.  Xstrata Plc, the world’s fourth-largest copper producer,
and Kazakhmys Plc declined more than 2 percent. Punch Taverns
Plc sank 11 percent after the largest U.K. pub owner wrote down
the value of its pubs. Standard Chartered Plc limited losses
amid renewed speculation that JPMorgan Chase & Co. may be
considering a bid for the bank.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  slipped 10.81, or 0.2 percent,
to 5,661.59 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, paring earlier
losses of as much as 1.3 percent. The  FTSE All-Share Index  fell
0.2 percent, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  dropped 0.5 percent.  “Most of the day’s weakness has been centered on commodity
stocks which have been hurt by the move by China to curb
excessive lending and a stronger dollar,” said  Joshua Raymond ,
a London-based market strategist at City Index. “When traders
are looking to minimize risk, the miners are typically the first
sector hit.”  Xstrata lost 2.6 percent to 1,245 pence, Kazakhmys slid 2.2
percent to 1,375 pence and Antofagasta Plc, which was downgraded
to “neutral” from “buy” at Redburn Partners, fell 1.5
percent to 1,249 pence.  Three people with knowledge of the matter said China’s
central bank had temporarily raised reserve requirements by half
a percentage point for six lenders. Reuters reported the move
yesterday.  House Prices  U.K. shares also declined after the Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors said the number of real-estate agents and
surveyors saying U.K.  house prices fell  exceeded those reporting
gains by 36 percentage points last month. That’s down from minus
32 points in August. A measure of price expectations fell to
minus 41, the lowest since March 2009.  The FTSE 100 climbed 0.3 percent yesterday amid speculation
the Federal Reserve will next month announce plans to stimulate
economic growth. Minutes from the U.S. central bank’s September
meeting are scheduled for release after the close of European
markets today.  Punch Taverns tumbled 11 percent to 80.05 pence on the
broader  FTSE All-Share Index  after the pub company reported a
218 million-pound ($346 million) impairment charge and pretax
profit excluding one-time items of 131 million pounds in the
year ended Aug. 21. Earnings declined from 160 million pounds in
the same period a year earlier.  StanChart, JPMorgan  Standard Chartered , which generates more than half of its
revenue in Asia, rallied 2.1 percent to 1,908.5 pence amid
renewed speculation JPMorgan may make a takeover offer for the
London-based bank.  It’s “a great fit, but I don’t think so,”  David Buik , a
London-based market strategist at BGC Partners, wrote in an e-
mail to clients today. “If JPMorgan was serious it would have
to probably pay a 20 percent premium. That is a huge amount of
cash to find for a major player in the banking sector, when we
are not yet out of the woods.”  JPMorgan’s  Douglas Wurth  last month said the firm is
planning to triple private banking assets in Asia, its fastest-
growing market over the next five years. Wurth, chief executive
officer for international private banking, moved to Hong Kong in
February from New York.  Spokesmen for JPMorgan and Standard Chartered in London
weren’t immediately available for comment when contacted by
Bloomberg News.  Morrison, Soco  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc  dropped 1.4 percent to
296.9 pence as analysts at JPMorgan rated the smallest of the
U.K.’s four main grocers “underweight” in new coverage.  Soco International Plc plunged 19 percent to 369.4 pence
after the U.K. energy explorer in Africa and Southeast Asia said
it will plug and abandon its appraisal well offshore Vietnam.  “It’s shocking for us,” said Soco Chief Financial
Officer  Roger Cagle  by phone today. “It’s certainly a different
result than we were expecting. We have tons of oil. The problem
is that we don’t have enough gas” in the reservoir for the
crude to flow to the surface, he said.  N Brown Group Plc rallied 4.2 percent to 253 pence after
the U.K. catalog retailer reported a 34 percent increase in
first-half profit to 32.1 million pounds, driven by a jump in
online sales which have overtaken telephone orders. Sales grew
3.2 percent while online shopping revenue jumped 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  