-- Canadian Stocks Rise With Higher Crop Prices, Federal Reserve Speculation
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-12T20:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/stocks-rise-in-toronto-second-day-as-agrium-gains-with-corn-banks-rise.html
Canadian stocks  rose for a second
day as agriculture companies advanced on higher crop prices and
U.S. Federal Reserve minutes indicated the central bank may soon
buy securities to add stimulus.  Agrium Inc., Canada’s second-biggest fertilizer producer,
gained 5.3 percent after corn futures advanced to a two-year
high. Canadian National Railway Co., the country’s largest
railroad, fell 1.5 percent after  John G. Larkin , an analyst at
Stifel Nicholas & Co., reduced his rating on the stock. Rogers
Communications Inc., Canada’s largest wireless carrier, advanced
1.9 percent after  Glenn Jamieson , an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd., increased his 12-month price estimate on the company.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  climbed 40.05
points, or 0.3 percent, from a two-year high to 12,575.64. The
index has gained four straight weeks as investors speculated
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will start a new round
of asset purchases, a policy known as quantitative easing.  “We’ve had a very robust move based on the expectation
that Bernanke is going to come in with an amazing QE, and that
will push up prices of everything,” said  Todd Johnson , who
helps oversee C$230 million ($227 million) at BCV Asset
Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba.  The S&P/TSX climbed  3.6 percent  during the four-week
period, led by energy and raw-materials stocks. Commodities
rallied as the U.S. dollar slumped to a nine-month low against a
basket of world currencies amid concerns that new stimulus
measures will weaken the American currency.  Corn Rally  Agriculture companies advanced as corn for December
delivery jumped 4.2 percent to a two-year high. Corn has soared
16 percent since Oct. 7, the day before the U.S. Agriculture
Department cut its harvest estimate.  Agrium, which is also a retail fertilizer supplier, rallied
5.3 percent from a two-year high to C$86.49. Viterra Inc.,
Canada’s largest grain handler, increased for a fifth day,
advancing 3.4 percent to C$9.77.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., Canada’s largest
fertilizer producer, climbed 1 percent to C$149.01 two days
after the Sunday Times reported the Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan is in talks with Temasek Holdings Pte about a possible bid
for the company.  Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman for Singapore’s
Temasek, and Ontario Teachers’ spokeswoman  Deborah Allan 
declined to comment. BHP Billiton Ltd. has an outstanding,
unsolicited $130 a share bid for Potash Corp.  Canada’s eight  publicly traded banks  rose after the minutes
of the Fed’s Sept. 21 Open Market Committee meeting showed
policy makers were prepared to ease monetary policy “before
long.”  Banks Gain  Bank of Montreal, Canada’s fourth-largest bank, gained 1
percent to C$59.84. National Bank of Canada, the No. 6 bank by
assets, advanced 0.8 percent to C$66.30.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the country’s fifth-
largest bank, increased 1.1 percent to C$77 after  Peter Routledge , an analyst at National Bank, raised his rating on the
stock to “outperform” from “sector perform.” In a note to
clients, Routledge said the next year should see CIBC with “a
fairly stable level of repeatable earnings from a business mix
and strategic ambition that will not require progressively
increasing levels of capital.”  Rogers, which also owns cable-television systems, magazines
and TV stations, gained 1.9 percent to a two-year high of
C$40.46. Jamieson raised his 12-month price estimate to C$42.50
from C$38, boosting the  average price estimate  among 14 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey to C$40.98.  BCE Inc., Canada’s largest phone company, advanced 1.6
percent to C$34.12. Telus Corp., the country’s third-biggest
wireless carrier, increased 1.1 percent from a two-year high to
C$47.05.  Railways Cut  Canada’s two publicly traded railroads, Canadian National
and Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd., fell after Larkin cut his
ratings on the companies to “hold” from “buy.” In a note to
clients, Larkin cited the railroads’ share prices relative to
 estimated future earnings .  Canadian National dropped 1.5 percent to C$65.68. Canadian
Pacific declined 1.5 percent from a two-year high to C$64.22.  Sino-Forest Corp., the largest Canada-based forestry
company by market value, surged 5.3 percent to C$18.99 as lumber
futures climbed to a four-month high on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. Lumber for November delivery has soared 9.4 percent
since Oct. 7, the day before the U.S. government accused British
Columbia of “ under-pricing ” timber from public lands.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd., Canada’s second-largest
publicly traded copper producer, led the S&P/TSX with a 3.7
percent plunge from a six-month high to C$81.47.  Kerry Smith , an
analyst at Haywood Securities Inc., cut his rating on the stock
to “sector perform” from “sector outperform.”  Centerra Gold Inc., which mines in Asia, jumped 7.6 percent
to a record C$18.64 after announcing the settlement of a strike
at its Kumtor Mine in Kyrgyzstan. Banro Corp., which explores
for gold in Africa, soared 11 percent to C$2.87 after  David Wargo , an analyst at GMP Capital Inc, restarted coverage of the
company with a “buy” rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 