-- Supreme Court Rejects Appeal by Pair Suing Over Expulsion From Bush Speech
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-12T15:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/supreme-court-rejects-appeal-by-pair-suing-over-expulsion-from-bush-speech.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  rejected an
appeal by two people who say they were prevented from attending
a speech by then-President  George W. Bush  after they arrived in
a car bearing a “No More Blood For Oil” bumper sticker.  The nation’s highest court today left intact a lower court
ruling that said Leslie Weise and Alex Young couldn’t sue White
House officials and an event volunteer for expelling the pair
from the 2005 speech on Social Security.  Justices  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Sonia Sotomayor  dissented,
saying they would have scheduled arguments in the case.  “I cannot see how reasonable public officials, or any
staff or volunteers under their direction, could have viewed the
bumper sticker as a permissible reason for depriving Weise and
Young of access to the event,” Ginsburg wrote for herself and
Sotomayor.  Weise and Young had tickets to the government-sponsored
event, held at a private air and space museum in Denver. They
say they had taken seats when they were asked to leave by
Michael Casper, a Secret Service agent acting at the behest of
two White House advance officials, James A. O’Keefe and Steven
A. Atkiss.  Weise and Young, who were represented in the lawsuit by the
American Civil Liberties Union Foundation, say they had no plans
to disrupt the speech.  In a 2-1 decision in January, the Denver-based 10th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the officials and volunteer
were immune from suit. The majority said the First Amendment
doesn’t bar the government from excluding people, because of
their views, from official speeches on private property.  The case is Weise v. Casper, 10-67.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 