-- Suzlon Energy Board Approves Plan to Sell $1.1 Billion of Stock, Buy Stake
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y   a n d   V a n d a n a   G o m b a r
-- 2010-10-12T08:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/suzlon-board-approves-plan-to-sell-50-billion-rupees-of-shares-buy-stake.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. , India’s biggest
wind-turbine manufacturer, plans to raise as much as 50 billion
rupees ($1.1 billion) by selling shares or debt to help fund
expansion and repay loans.  The wind-turbine maker, based in Ahmedabad, may raise the
funds through sales of shares or convertible bonds in India or
overseas, Suzlon said in a filing to the stock exchange
yesterday. The company’s board has also allowed Suzlon to
increase its share capital to 7 billion rupees from 4.45 billion
rupees, according to the filing.  Suzlon needs financing to enlarge its presence in the wind-
energy markets of China and India to help offset slowing orders
in Europe after the debt crisis made it difficult to raise funds
for renewable-energy projects. Chairman  Tulsi Tanti  said on Sept.
14 he expects Suzlon, which reported a quarterly loss of 9.1
billion rupees in June, to return to profit this year.  “Suzlon has a debt of around 130 billion rupees and this
share sale should help them pare it,” said  Chintan Mewar , head
of research at Finquest Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “How much
the company benefits from the stock sale will depend on the
valuation they get, because they may do this in tranches.”  Last year, Suzlon raised 224 million pounds ($355 million)
selling a 35 percent stake in Hansen Transmissions International
NV to reduce its debt taken to buy 91 percent of Hamburg-based
Repower Systems AG.  The  shares  fell 0.3 percent to 58.3 rupees in Mumbai
trading at 1:07 p.m. local time, compared with the 0.8 percent
decline in India’s benchmark Sensitive Index. The stock has
dropped 36 percent this year, while the Sensex gained 15 percent.  Overseas Expansion  Suzlon joins General Electric Co. and European rivals that
are introducing newer technology and opening factories in China,
the world’s fastest-growing green energy market, as they compete
for orders. The country plans to add 18 gigawatts of wind
capacity this year, which Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates
is double what’s expected in the U.S., the No. 2 market.  The wind-turbine maker also plans to install 800 megawatts
of wind-energy plants in South Africa over the next two years as
the country looks to reduce its power shortage. Suzlon is the
second turbine producer after Denmark’s Vestas Wind Systems AS
to open an office in Johannesburg.  Suzlon’s board has also approved a plan to buy back the
17.1 percent stake held by IDFC Private Equity Fund in its unit
SE Forge Ltd. In return, IDFC will be issued a 1.8 percent stake
in the wind-turbine maker, according to the filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Archana Chaudhary  in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net ;
 Vandana Gombar  in New Delh at 
 vgombar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net . 