-- Swedish 2011 Budget Lacks Stimulus Needed to Drive Growth, Economists Say
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-10-12T09:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/swedish-2011-budget-lacks-stimulus-needed-to-drive-growth-economists-say.html
Sweden’s 2011 budget, which was
presented by the government today, lacks the stimulus needed to
sustain growth, consumption and investment while its forecasts
are too optimistic, economists and business groups said.  “An unnecessarily cautious budget,” Magnus Alvesson, an
economist at Swedbank AB in Stockholm, wrote in a note, adding
that the government should introduce further stimulus measures
next year to boost domestic demand and cut unemployment.  The government proposed spending 13 billion kronor ($1.94
billion) next year on tax cuts, welfare, education and raising
employment, it  said  today. It also lowered its forecast for
 economic  growth to 3.7 percent in 2011 and 3.4 percent in 2012,
compared with an Aug. 20 estimate for 4 percent growth in 2011.
The forecasts “may be a little too high,” Nordea Bank AB
economist  Bengt Rostroem  wrote in a note.  Sweden sends 40 percent of its exports to the euro area and
relies on sales abroad for half its economic output, making it
sensitive to weaker demand for Volvo AB trucks and SKF AB
bearings. Fiscal austerity measures in the European Union may
hurt the region’s recovery and undermine demand, leaving
exporting nations vulnerable, economists at Citigroup Inc. and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have said.  Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said today uncertainty about
the global recovery warranted caution in its forecasts even as
key markets are still strong.  “That is obviously the risk to this scenario,” he said in
an interview after presenting the budget. “Sweden’s trade is
heavily dependent on the other Nordic countries, on Germany, the
Netherlands. The fact is Northern Europe is going very strongly
now.”  ‘Too Austere’  Swedbank’s Alvesson said an overly optimistic view of the
macroeconomic development risks leading to a “too austere”
budget.  “Unlike the government, we have a somewhat more
pessimistic view of the business cycle development,” he said.
“The global development is expected to become weaker next year
and we also see households’ and businesses’ consumption and
investment  getting weaker than the government’s forecast.”  The economy will grow 4.8 percent this year, compared with
an August forecast for 4.5 percent after last year’s 5.1 percent
contraction, Borg said.  New Hit  “We will have the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the
unions and other lobby groups saying that we should do more,
that we have money and that taxes should be cut and that
spending should be increased,” he said. “But you can’t plan
for much-better-than-expected development. We have to assume
that when we reach 2013 the economic recovery will be living on
borrowed time, and then we must be able to handle a new hit.”  The largest Nordic economy may have a budget deficit of 1.3
percent of gross domestic product this year and of 0.4 percent
of GDP in 2011, before returning to a surplus of 1 percent of
GDP in 2012 and 2 percent in 2013, according to the government.  Sweden is running the narrowest budget deficit in the
European Union this year at a time when countries from Ireland
to Greece are slashing spending to trim their deficits.  “Fiscal policy in the coming years, mainly in 2013 and
2014, will be slightly restrictive,” Borg said. “I think this
is the right thing to do, it’s better to apply the brake as we
go into a period of economic growth than boost the economy.”  The government failed to secure a majority in the Sept. 19
election, winning 173 seats in the 349-member assembly, two
short of a majority and five less than it had after the 2006
vote. That means Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt’s four-party
coalition will rely on support outside the government to pass
some bills.  Election Promises  Borg said the government had delivered “exactly” what it
promised in the election campaign and would continue its efforts
to increase the labor supply and stimulate the demand for labor,
so that jobs will come early in the upturn. The Swedish
Federation of Business Owners, a lobby group for businesses said
Borg need to do more to create jobs.  “Finance Minister Borg needs help with finding the key to
new jobs -- the measures are conspicuous by their absence,” the
lobby said in a statement today. “With a lower employment tax,
small businesses are ready to hire and expand. A reduction, at a
cost of 12 billion kronor to 15 billion kronor, would generate
50,000 new jobs,” it said.  Borg’s ministry forecast that unemployment will peak at 8.4
percent of the workforce this year, falling to 8 percent in 2011
and to 7.4 percent in 2012.  “The government is signaling they want to be cautious over
the country’s finances,”  Olle Holmgren , an analyst at SEB AB in
Stockholm, said in a telephone interview today. “In the
election campaign, they promoted themselves as the guardians of
the economy and they want to show that now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  