-- Sweden's Nobel Turns to Hedging to Preserve Prize Fund From Currency Risk
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   M a r y b e t h   S a n d e l l
-- 2010-10-12T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/sweden-s-nobel-turns-to-hedging-to-preserve-prize-fund-from-currency-risk.html
Sweden’s 100-year-old Nobel
Foundation, which every October gives 60 million kronor ($9
million) to prize winners in the award’s six categories, has
begun hedging against the risk of currency fluctuations.  Last year, the 3 billion-krona ($448 million) foundation
switched to a policy that calls for offsetting risk in all its
foreign bonds and half its hedge fund investments to help
protect the Nobel’s future.  “There is this need to hedge, otherwise the returns can be
absolutely drowned in the currency volatility,”  Michael Sohlman , the Nobel Foundation’s executive director, said in an
interview in Stockholm. “Our view is long term. The important
thing is to be around for another 100 or 1,000 years.”  Exchange-rate controversies are spooking markets. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  have called on China to let the
yuan rise, while China and some emerging nations have complained
about low U.S. interest rates. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last week a currency war is underway.  “We’ve gotten advice to hedge before and it was very good
that we didn’t in 2008,” Sohlman said. “We had a positive
effect from the dollar surge in 2008 and once you get that kind
of windfall profit you have to ponder whether it will go on or
not.”  Generating Gains  Until 2009, the foundation took the view that currency
fluctuations offset each other over time. Last year though, the
group decided to hedge part of its currency positions in foreign
holdings, generating a gain of 50.9 million kronor last autumn.  While the market value of the assets at the end of 2009 is
still 14 percent below the 3.63 billion kronor in 2007, the fund
had a total return of 14.4 percent last year and a gain of 4.6
percent from between 2005 and 2009 on its equities investments.  The  U.S.  was the biggest recipient of the investments last
year, with 24 percent of the total, followed by the rest of
Europe with 13 percent. About a fifth was invested in hedge
funds and private equity, up from 15 percent at the end of 2008.  The investments are managed by the foundation’s board of
directors, which comprises seven members and two deputies.  Sohlman said the Foundation’s goal is to “safeguard the
financial base” and find a return of “around 6 percent,”
enough to “maintain the value with a certain amount of growth”
and pay for expenses.  The  Stockholm-based Nobel Foundation  was created in 1900 at
the request of Alfred Nobel, the Swede who invented dynamite and
established awards for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature in his will in 1896.  Liu Xiaobo, a jailed Chinese dissident, was awarded the 10
million-krona ($1.44 million) Nobel Peace Prize on Oct. 8 for
his efforts to promote democracy and human rights, while Mario
Vargas Llosa, the Peruvian writer whose work explores the
political corruption and military dictatorships of Latin
America, won this year’s Nobel Prize in Literature.  The economics prize was set by Sweden’s central bank in
1968. Peter Diamond, Dale Mortensen and Christopher Pissarides
shared the 2010 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for their work
on the efficiency of recruitment and wage formation as well as
labor-market regulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
 Marybeth Sandell  at 
 msandell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 