-- Sweden Cuts Economic Growth Forecast on Unemployment
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-10-12T07:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/sweden-cuts-economic-growth-forecast-on-unemployment.html
Sweden lowered its economic outlook
for next year as the prospect of a sluggish recovery in the euro
area threatens to hamper export demand and sustain high
joblessness in the largest Nordic economy.  Gross domestic product  will expand 3.7 percent in 2011 and
3.4 percent the year after, the government said in the budget
report released in Stockholm today. That compares with an Aug.
20 estimate for 4 percent growth in 2011. The economy will grow
4.8 percent this year, compared with an August forecast for 4.5
percent after last year’s 5.1 percent contraction.  “Sweden is still in an economic slump with high
unemployment and there are still risks that the development will
be worse than expected,” Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said in a
statement. “It’s important that we ensure that public finances
show a surplus again and that we prevent unemployment from
sticking at a high level.”  Sweden sends 40 percent of its exports to the euro area and
relies on sales abroad for half its total economic output.
Fiscal austerity measures in the European Union may hurt the
region’s recovery and undermine demand, leaving exporting
nations like Sweden vulnerable, according to economists at
Citigroup Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The  Riksbank  has raised the benchmark repo rate twice since
July, bringing it to 0.75 percent last month as the economy
rebounded from last year’s slump. Two of the bank’s six board
members have warned against further tightening as other central
banks stay on hold, arguing that would trigger a krona
appreciation that will hurt Swedish exporters.  Deficit to Surplus  The budget deficit will narrow to 0.4 percent of GDP in
2011, the government estimates, from 1.3 percent of GDP in 2010.
The government sees a surplus of 1 percent of GDP in 2012 and of
2 percent the following year.  “The government are signaling they want to be cautious
over the country’s finances,” said  Olle Holmgren , an analyst at
SEB AB in Stockholm, by telephone. “In the election campaign,
they promoted themselves as the guardians of the economy and
they want to show that now.”  Unemployment will fall to 8 percent next year from 8.4
percent in 2010, the government said. Average inflation will be
1.2 percent this year, 1.5 percent in 2011 and 1.9 percent the
year after.  “Considering the strong growth, the forecast for
unemployment seems to be much too high,” said Bengt Roström, an
economist at Nordea Bank AB in Stockholm. “Public finances
should also be somewhat better on the back of the strong growth,
resulting in a lower borrowing requirement.”  The yield spread between Swedish 10-year government debt
and German bonds of the same maturity is narrower than that of
any euro-area member, according to data available on Bloomberg.
The krona has surged 11 percent against the euro in the past 12
months as investors bet Sweden’s recovery will force the central
bank to stick to its monetary tightening path.  The krona was down 0.09 percent at 9.2722 against the euro
at 9:28 a.m. in Stockholm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Johan Carlstrom  in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  