-- Swiss Stocks Retreat in Zurich; Nobel Biocare, Synthes Shares Lead Decline
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-12T13:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/swiss-stocks-retreat-in-zurich-nobel-biocare-synthes-shares-lead-decline.html
Swiss equities dropped, with the
benchmark Swiss Market Index falling the most in two weeks as
 Nobel Biocare Holding AG  sank after Morgan Stanley and UBS AG
downgraded the world’s biggest maker of dental implants.  Nobel Biocare plummeted 8.7 percent. Roche Holding AG sank
2.2 percent as WestLB remained cautious with regard to its
Avastin cancer medicine. Holcim Ltd. declined, following
construction shares lower in Europe.  EMS-Chemie Holding AG  lost
1.2 percent as Helvea SA highlighted the company didn’t raise
its earnings forecast.  The  Swiss Market Index  fell 13.84, or 0.2 percent, to
6,372.34 at 2:26 p.m. in Zurich. The gauge has dropped 8.5
percent from this year’s high on April 15 as concern re-emerged
that the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe will crimp economic
growth. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  also fell 0.2
percent today.  “Concerns about a Chinese monetary tightening has taken
the top off stocks today,”  Mads Koefoed , a market strategist at
Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said. “Clearly, investors are
concerned whether stocks will actually deliver as priced. Many
are biting their nails in anticipation of Intel’s report later
today to see if the rally in equities will translate into actual
earnings.”  Nobel Biocare sank 8.7 percent to 17.06 francs. Morgan
Stanley downgraded the stock to “underweight” from “equal
weight” and UBS cut its recommendation to “sell” from
“hold.” UBS, which also downgraded rival dental-implant maker
 Straumann Holding AG  to “neutral” from “buy,” said in a note
that “Nobel Biocare appears to be the most aggressive with
regards to discounting policy.” Straumann shares dropped 5.2
percent to 209.5 francs.  Roche falls  Roche Holding dropped 2.2 percent to 136 francs. The
drugmaker yesterday reported its Avastin cancer medicine
increased survival times for women with ovarian, peritoneal or
fallopian-tube tumors. “The question remains of whether, in the
absence of overall survival data, this benefit will be enough to
persuade regulatory authorities to approve Avastin in this new
setting,” WestLB said in a note today. The brokerage said it
remains “on the cautious side, leaving our Avastin estimates
unchanged.”  Holcim, the world’s second-biggest cement maker, retreated
1.4 percent to 61.25 francs as construction shares were among
the worst performers in Europe.  EMS-Chemie Holding dropped 1.2 percent to 155 francs. The
maker of engineering plastics for cars and electronics said
sales in the first nine months gained 42 percent to 1.23 billion
Swiss francs from 866 million francs the year earlier.  “This is the first quarter this year that the company has
not provided an upside surprise in its numbers or increased its
financial guidance for this year,” Helvea said in a note.  Baloise Holding AG  fell 1 percent to 90.5 francs.
Switzerland’s third-biggest insurer was removed from UBS AG’s
most-preferred insurers list.  Swiss Reinsurance Co.  dropped 0.3 percent to 45.86 francs
after gaining as much as 1.1 percent. Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services revised its credit-rating outlook on the world’s
second-biggest reinsurer to positive from stable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 