-- Bomb-Plot Juror Removed as Judge in New York Refuses to Declare Mistrial
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-10-12T20:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/synagogue-bomb-plot-juror-is-removed-as-judge-refuses-to-declare-mistrial.html
The judge in the trial of four men
accused of planning to bomb New York synagogues refused to
declare a mistrial, then dismissed a juror who said she might
not be able to ignore a document she saw by mistake.  The juror told U.S. District judge  Colleen McMahon  that she
wasn’t sure that she could disregard the contents of a
transcript accidentally included in a binder of transcripts of
recorded phone calls. McMahon sent the juror home and told the
remaining 11 to continue deliberations that began Oct. 6.  McMahon declined a defense request for a mistrial because
of the transcript. In the conversation, defendant David Williams
and his father discuss the entrapment defense. The judge told
the jurors to disregard the document, along with a transcript of
a call between defendant Onta Williams and a woman that was
mistakenly included in all of their binders.  “I’m convinced that the error here was inadvertent, but it
was a serious error,” McMahon told the jurors.  James Cromitie, 44, David Williams, 29, Onta Williams, 34,
and Laguerre Payen, 29, all of  Newburgh, New York , were arrested
in a coordinated FBI sting on May 20, 2009, and accused of
planning to bomb a synagogue and a Jewish community center in
the Bronx and fire heat-seeking Stinger missiles at military
planes at  Stewart International Airport .  Defense attorneys argued that the men are the victims of
entrapment by a paid government informant who lured them into
the plot with coffee and food and promises of thousands of
dollars in cash. Prosecutors said they were predisposed to
conduct a terrorist attack.  Father-Son Call  The call between David Williams and his father was recorded
on June 7, 2009, while Williams was in custody awaiting trial.
The defendant “suggests that entrapment is a bogus defense
concocted by the lawyers,” according to a letter to the judge
from Susanne Brody and Mark Gombiner, attorneys for Onta
Williams. The Williamses aren’t related.  The call between Onta Williams and the woman was recorded
on May 29, 2009, while he was being held at the Westchester
County Correctional Facility, according to the letter. During
the call, Williams says the informant in the case offered him
$10,000 to participate in the plot.  “Like, we prayed in Muslim, whatever, and, and like I
said, the only reason why I was even in it, ‘cause of the
money,’” Onta Williams says during the call, according to the
letter.  Mistrial Motion  Defense attorneys moved for a mistrial, arguing that the
presence of the transcripts in the jury room violated their
clients’ right to be tried only on properly admitted evidence.  “We are now worse off because of what the government
did,” Gombiner told the judge today. “That cannot possibly be
right.”  The government “regrets the episode, which was of its own
making,” while arguing that the “situation was contained by
the jury’s common sense,” according to a letter from the
prosecution.  The charges against the four include conspiracy and
attempted use of weapons of mass destruction in the U.S. They
face as long as life in prison if convicted. The trial began
Aug. 23.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 