-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Falls to 18-Month Low as Cuts Loom
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/u-k-consumer-confidence-plummets-to-18-month-low-as-budget-squeeze-looms.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  plummeted
in September to an 18-month low as Britons braced themselves for
the biggest spending cuts since World War II, Nationwide
Building Society said.  The index of sentiment fell 9 points from the previous
month to 53, the lowest since March 2009, the customer-owned
lender said in an e-mailed statement today. A measure of whether
now is a good time to spend fell 14 points to 85, the lowest
level since November 2008.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will next week
reveal details of the spending cuts he announced in June to
tackle the nation’s record budget deficit. Bank of England
officials have debated adding stimulus to aid the economy and
policy maker  David Miles  said yesterday the U.K. still faces
“big risks” as the recovery remains “immature.”  Today’s numbers may have been “driven by a realization of
the true impact of the cuts announced in the emergency budget,”
 Martin Gahbauer , chief economist at Swindon, England-based
Nationwide, said in the statement. “The government’s impending
spending review is likely to have a strong bearing on consumer
confidence.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said last week that Britain
needs to “face up to our financial responsibilities” by
curbing its record  budget deficit.  Details of the expenditure
squeeze are due on Oct. 20. Last week, the government unveiled
plans to cut the Child Benefit welfare payments for more than 1
million families.  Consumer Outlook  A gauge measuring expectations for the economy in the next
six months fell by 12 points to 73, the report showed. A measure
of people’s current perception of the economy fell 5 points to
22, the lowest this year.  “At every level of life, everybody’s become more
careful,”  Philip Green , the billionaire owner of Arcadia Group
Ltd., said in an interview this week on Bloomberg Television.
“Whether you’re a business, whether you’re a consumer, whether
you’re a saver, everybody’s become more aware.”  Sentiment on the housing market improved slightly in the
Nationwide survey. Consumers expect the value of their home to
rise 0.1 percent in the next six months, compared with a
prediction of a 0.1 percent decline in August.  The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors still said
yesterday that a gauge of house  prices  fell to a 16-month low in
September and the British Chambers of Commerce said the economy
“slowed considerably” in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  