-- U.K. Inflation Topped 3% Limit for Seventh Month in September
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-12T08:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/u-k-consumer-prices-rise-3-1-exceeding-limit-for-seventh-straight-month.html
U.K.  inflation  exceeded the
government’s 3 percent limit for a seventh month in September as
higher clothing and food costs kept up price pressures in the
economy.  Consumer prices rose 3.1 percent from a year earlier, the
Office for National Statistics said today in London. That
matched the median forecast of 31 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Clothing and footwear costs jumped a record 6.4 percent
on the month, led by women’s coats and other outerwear.  Inflation is “uncomfortably” above the 2 percent goal as
factors that have pushed up the rate offset the drag on prices
from the recession, policy maker  David Miles  said in a speech
today. The bank has debated expanding its 200 billion-pound
($318 billion) stimulus plan to aid growth as the government
readies the biggest public spending cuts since World War II.  “Inflation will almost certainly be above target all next
year,” said  Philip Shaw , chief economist at Investec Securities
Ltd. in London. “The Monetary Policy Committee will be more
reluctant to sanction more quantitative easing given the high
headline rate of inflation.”  The pound fell more than 0.1 percent against the dollar
after the report and traded at $1.5843 as of 9:40 a.m. in
London. The yield on the benchmark two-year government bond was
down 3 basis points today at 0.577 percent.  Clothing, Food  Consumer prices stayed unchanged on the month, the
statistics office said. Higher costs of clothing, meat and fruit
offset a drop in transport, leaving overall inflation unchanged.  Core inflation, which excludes the cost of food, tobacco,
alcohol and energy prices, was at 2.7 percent, the statistics
office said. Economists forecast 2.6 percent, according to the
median of 14 predictions in a Bloomberg survey.  The inflation rate has held above 3 percent since March as
higher commodity prices feed price pressures in the economy and
a weaker pound boosts import costs. Sterling has fallen by about
a fifth on a trade-weighted basis since the start of 2007. Oil
prices have more than doubled in the past 18 months, and cotton
exceeded $1 per pound for the first time since 1995.  London-based Marks & Spencer Group Plc, the U.K.’s biggest
clothing retailer, said Oct. 7 trading conditions are likely to
become “more challenging” as commodity costs rise and
government raises sales tax in January.  Green’s View  “There’s clearly going to be inflation,”  Philip Green ,
the billionaire owner of  Arcadia Group Ltd. , said in an
interview yesterday with Bloomberg Television. “But I think all
the central banks realize they can’t do anything with interest
rates in the short-term.” He predicted that U.K. interest rates
“don’t go far for the next 18 months, two years.”  Bank of England officials have split on whether to raise
interest rates to curb inflation or add stimulus to avert the
threat of a further slump.  Policy maker  Adam Posen  said last month the bank should
resume gilt purchases to bolster the economy. His colleague,
 Andrew Sentance , has argued since June that the recovery is
strong enough to withstand measures to tame price gains.  “U.K. inflation now sits uncomfortably above the target,”
Miles said today in Dublin. “But I believe that this tells us
rather little about the cyclical position of the economy or
where inflation will be in future. Underlying forces that were
created by the financial crisis and that would have kept
inflation low have been offset by other factors that have kept
inflation above target for much of the past year.”  Retail price inflation, a measure of living costs used in
wage negotiations, was 4.6 percent in September, and the rate
excluding mortgage-interest payments was the same. Economists
forecast 4.4 percent for both measures, according to the median
predictions in Bloomberg News surveys.  The trade deficit narrowed to 8.2 billion pounds in August
from 8.7 billion pounds, the statistics office said in a
separate report. Exports fell 1.8 percent, while there was a 2.7
percent drop in imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Fraher  at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  