-- U.K. Government Bonds Gain as Housing Gauge Drops to Lowest in 16 Months
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-12T15:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/u-k-government-bonds-gain-as-housing-gauge-drops-to-lowest-in-16-months.html
U.K. government bonds rose as a
measure of  house prices  slid to a 16-month low, adding to
speculation the Bank of England will resume buying securities to
avert another recession.  Gains earlier today pushed the two-year note yield to
within three basis points of a record low. The number of real-
estate agents and surveyors saying prices fell exceeded those
reporting gains by 36 percentage points, widening from the 32-
point gap in August, the London-based Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors said in an e-mailed report today. Investors
added to bets interest rates will stay lower for longer after a
report showed inflation stagnated last month.  “We’ve had some weak data, so that’s been gilt-market
friendly,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist in
Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for banks and
money managers. “The market is banking on more quantitative
easing from the Federal Reserve, and the Bank of England may
follow suit next year.”  Ten-year yields fell four basis points to 2.84 percent as
of 4:41 p.m. in London. The 4.75 percent security due March 2020
rose 0.32, or 3.2 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,586) face amount,
to 115.68. The two-year yield was little changed at 0.63 percent
after falling to as little as 0.58 percent. The two-year yield
dropped to a record low 0.56 percent on Aug. 24.  The yield on the short-sterling futures contract for
December 2011, which anticipates where short-term interest rates
will be, fell 3 basis points to 1.04 percent.  Retail Sales  The pound weakened 0.3 percent to 87.64 pence per euro and
was 0.6 percent weaker at $1.5794.  A report from the British Retail Consortium released today
showed stores posted slower sales growth in September. Retail
sales by value rose an annual 0.5 percent, compared with a 1
percent increase in August. Nationwide Building Society will
probably say tomorrow that consumer confidence declined last
month, according to a survey of economists.  U.K. consumer prices rose 3.1 percent from a year earlier,
the same as in August, the Office for National Statistics said
today in London. Prices were unchanged from a month earlier,
when they increased 0.5 percent.  Britain’s inflation rate has been above the central bank’s
3 percent limit since March amid increasing commodity prices.
Sterling has fallen by about a fifth on a trade-weighted basis
since the start of 2007, contributing to higher import costs.  Investors increased their inflation expectations as the 10-
year breakeven rate, which measures the yield difference between
regular and index-linked bonds, rose four basis points to 2.77
percentage points.  Inflation to Slow  The rate, which anticipates consumer-price growth in the
U.K. during the next decade, has increased from 2.48 percentage
points on Aug. 31, the least this year. It was as high as 3.25
percentage points on April 21.  Bank of England officials are split between those
advocating higher rates to bring inflation back to its 2 percent
target against those who favor looser policy as a way to
safeguard the recovery while the government cuts spending.  “The worst-case scenario for sterling would be a sense in
the market that as the economic data worsens, the Bank of
England is in a position where it’s not able to respond with
further policy measures because of the inflation,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of global currency research at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., said in an interview with  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  Policy maker  Adam Posen  said last month the bank should
resume gilt purchases to bolster the economy. His colleague,
 Andrew Sentance , has argued since June that the recovery is
strong enough to withstand measures to tame price gains.  The Bank of England’s nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King , held the target for bond
holdings at 200 billion pounds last week and kept the benchmark
interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  