-- U.K. Needs Low Rates for Homes Market, Minister Says (Correct)
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-15T16:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/u-k-property-market-boom-or-bust-must-end-housing-minister-shapps-says.html
Britain needs interest rates to stay
low for as long as possible to help its property market become
“steadier” without swings in prices that make homes
unaffordable, Housing Minister Grant Shapps said.  “It’s really important that we keep interest rates low for
as long as possible,” Shapps said at a conference for the
homebuilding industry in London yesterday. “The biggest problem
at the moment is that people can’t afford to buy your product
because they can’t get the lending to get it.”  House prices plunged the most since at least 1983 in
September after they tripled in the decade to 2007, according to
Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s Halifax division. The International
Monetary Fund said Oct. 6 that British home values are “still
high” and policy measures may not be enough to prevent a
further drop.  “We need a housing market that is best described as
boring,” he said. “We can’t go on thinking that your home is
your investment, your retirement plan, and your roof over your
head. We have to live in a country where housing becomes over a
long period of time more affordable, and that means steadier
house prices without boom or bust.”  Shapps said while first-time and other buyers may struggle
to buy property because they can’t get a mortgage, the
government’s commitment to taming the record deficit has eased
strains in the housing market by lowering borrowing costs. The
average rate for a two-year fixed-rate mortgage with a 25
percent deposit was 3.79 percent in September, close to the
lowest on record, Bank of England data show.  Budget Squeeze  “That’s all happening only because of the deficit
reduction plans and that the market understands that this
government is serious about reducing the deficit,” he said.  Mortgage approvals fell for a fourth month in August to
47,372, less than half the level at the peak of the housing boom
in 2007, the Bank of England said Sept. 29. The average price of
a home fell 3.6 percent in September from the previous month to
$258,000, Halifax said Oct. 7.  The recovery in the U.K. mortgage market has “a long way
to go,” John White, chairman of homebuilder Persimmon Plc, said
at the conference. “My personal view is that we should only
expect 50,000 a month for the foreseeable future. If we get
more, that will be good.”  Shapps said the government will help promote homebuilding
by cutting regulation, and an offer to local councils of a bonus
for new homes built in their districts may help ease the sting
of budget cuts. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne will
announce on Oct. 20 details of the biggest public spending
squeeze since World War II.  “We have to have more homes built in this country,”
Shapps said, speaking at the Housing Market Intelligence
Conference. “You’ve seen that we’re serious and determined to
cut the deficit. We’re just as serious about cutting all that
unnecessary bureaucracy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  