-- U.S. Embassy Bombing Trial to Resume Without `Critical' Government Witness
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/u-s-embassy-bombing-trial-to-resume-without-critical-government-witness.html
The first civilian terrorism trial
of a former Guantanamo Bay detainee resumes today without a
witness prosecutors called “critical” to their case and whom
defense lawyers said was discovered through torture.  Ahmed Ghailani , 36, is charged with participating in a
global conspiracy with al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden  that
includes the near-simultaneous bombings that ripped through the
U.S. embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania,
in 1998. The attacks killed 224 people, including 12 U.S.
citizens. Ghailani, who was born in Zanzibar, Tanzania, faces as
long as life in prison if convicted.  Prosecutors said Oct. 10 that they wouldn’t appeal U.S.
District Judge  Lewis Kaplan ’s decision excluding the testimony
of Hussein Abebe. Abebe, a Tanzanian miner, said in September
that he sold five crates of dynamite to Ghailani before the
blasts. Kaplan, who is presiding over the trial in Manhattan,
barred the testimony on the grounds the U.S. learned about Abebe
from coerced statements Ghailani made while in U.S. custody.  “I initially expected that the government would pursue an
appeal and seek reversal,” said  Daniel Richman , a former
federal prosecutor in Manhattan. “But the government appears to
have an overriding desire to get this case on track quickly, and
there is no reason to think it cannot do so.”  Jury selection began Sept. 29. On Oct. 6, Kaplan granted
the U.S. until Oct. 12 to review his ruling on Abebe and decide
whether to appeal.  A delay in the trial would inconvenience many government
witnesses who have “long waited to see the defendant tried for
his crimes,” prosecutors said in their Oct. 10 letter to
Kaplan.  ‘Weighing’ Circumstances  “Weighing all of the circumstances, the government does
not wish to delay the trial in order to take an appeal,”
prosecutors said. “Even without Hussein Abebe’s testimony, the
government is prepared to meet its burden of proving the
defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.”  The U.S. will present physical and circumstantial evidence
collected after the blasts, court papers show. The government’s
proof includes business records and other documents that
corroborate Ghailani’s purchase of the explosives, prosecutors
said in a classified memo to the court that was unsealed last
week.  ‘Covered in TNT’  The evidence also includes clothing “covered in TNT
residue” found by U.S. investigators during a 1998 search of
Ghailani’s home in Tanzania, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  said in the partially declassified memo. Detonators
were found by investigators both in a “factory” where the
Tanzania bomb was built and in a cabinet in his residence which
was used and locked by Ghailani, the prosecutor said.  Yusill Scribner, a spokesman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment yesterday. Peter Quijano, a
lawyer for Ghailani, didn’t return a voice-mail message left at
his office after business hours.  Four other alleged co-conspirators in the bombings were
previously convicted in 2001 at a federal trial in New York.
Prosecutors could succeed again against Ghailani, without the
testimony of an eyewitness such as Abebe, Richman said.  “Although the recent focus has been on a new witness, the
government presented a strong case against other defendants in
the original embassy bombing case and has additional physical
evidence against Ghailani,” said Richman, who teaches at
Columbia Law School.  Truck, TNT  The government alleges that Ghailani, along with Sheikh
Ahmed Swedan, bought the truck that was used to ferry explosives
used in the Tanzania blast and altered the vehicle to allow more
room for bomb components. He’s also accused of helping deliver
bomb-making components, including TNT and oxygen tanks.  Swedan was killed in January 2009 in a missile strike
involving U.S. Predator drones in Pakistan, the Washington Post
reported, citing unidentified U.S. counterterrorism officials.  Ghailani fled Africa with a senior al-Qaeda explosives
trainer and “remained an active participant in al-Qaeda,” the
U.S. said in court papers. He was indicted by a federal grand
jury in New York in December 1998.  He later admitted that he worked for several top al-Qaeda
terrorists and served as a cook and bodyguard for  bin Laden ,
prosecutors said. He also forged documents for the terror group,
according to the U.S. Those February 2007 statements made to
agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation won’t be used
against him, the U.S. has said.  ‘Enhanced Interrogation’  Ghailani was captured in Pakistan in July 2004 and held by
the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency at so-called black sites --
secret installations outside the U.S. -- where he was subjected
to “enhanced interrogation techniques,” the U.S. has said.  His lawyers say he was tortured while in CIA custody.
Kaplan rejected a defense bid to dismiss the indictment on the
ground of outrageous government misconduct for the alleged
torture. Details of his custody and interrogation have been
redacted from court documents because they are still classified.  Ghailani was taken to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in September
2006 and transferred to federal court in New York last year,
after the Obama administration said it planned to close
Guantanamo and try some terrorism suspects held there in
civilian courts.  The judge’s ruling on Abebe remains under seal. In a three-
page abbreviated version released Oct. 6, Kaplan said even if
Ghailani is acquitted of all charges, it’s unlikely he will be
freed.  ‘Enemy Combatant’  “His status as an ‘enemy combatant’ probably would permit
his detention as something akin to a prisoner of war until
hostilities between the United States and al-Qaeda and the
Taliban end even if he were found not guilty in this case,”
Kaplan wrote.  “Hovering over all of the Guantanamo detainee cases is the
administration’s virtual promise that should any real terrorist
be acquitted, he will still be detained,” Richman said. “It
also poses a challenge to the perceived legitimacy of criminal
trials.”  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York Federal Court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 