-- Lifting of Deep-Water Drilling Ban Fails to Win Praise for Obama
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2010-10-13T20:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/u-s-said-to-lift-ban-on-deep-water-drilling-imposed-after-bp-s-oil-spill.html
The Obama administration’s decision
yesterday to lift its ban on deep-water drilling ahead of
schedule satisfied neither energy companies nor critics of
offshore oil and natural-gas exploration.  Drillers are waiting for approval to go back into operation
under new rules intended to prevent a repeat of  BP Plc ’s oil
spill in the Gulf of Mexico,  Randall Luthi , president of the
Washington-based National Ocean Industries Association, said in
a statement. Drilling contractors extended gains for a second
day in New York trading.  “Our companies remain doubtful that this announcement is
anything more than symbolic until permits are actually issued
for new drilling,” said Luthi, whose group’s members include
Exxon Mobil Corp. and Marathon Oil Corp.  Environmental organizations such as Greenpeace said it was
reckless to remove the ban before the full impact of the BP
spill is known and companies meet higher standards. Both sides
accused President  Barack Obama  of playing politics ahead of the
November mid-term elections.  “There’s a broader recognition this is a political move
and that activity is not going to come roaring back in the Gulf
of Mexico,”  Collin Gerry , an analyst at Raymond James Financial
Inc. in Houston, said in an interview. “This is more of a token
measure.”  Obama halted oil and natural-gas drilling in waters deeper
than 500 feet (152 meters) after BP’s Macondo well off the
Louisiana coast blew out April 20, killing 11 workers and
setting off the biggest U.S. oil spill. Yesterday, Interior
Secretary  Ken Salazar  ended the ban, which was scheduled to
expire Nov. 30, while saying companies must meet new safety
requirements.  ‘Higher Bar’  “I have decided that it is now appropriate to lift the
suspension on deep-water drilling for those operators that are
able to clear the higher bar that we have set,” Salazar said on
a conference call with reporters.  The new rules will add $183 million a year to the cost of
drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf, the Interior Department
said in a notice to be published tomorrow in the Federal
Register. That will mean an extra $1.42 million in costs for
each new deep-water well that uses a floating rig. Shallow-water
wells will cost an extra $90,000.  The requirements will add less than 2 percent to the cost
of a deep-water well and 1 percent for shallow wells, the
Interior Department said. Deep-water wells drilled from floating
platforms typically cost about $90 million to $100 million.  Anadarko’s Statement  “We are hopeful that the government will move
expeditiously to process the permits that will enable our
industry to put people back to work finding and developing these
domestic energy resources,” John Christiansen, a spokesman for
Anadarko Petroleum Corp., based in The Woodlands, Texas, said in
an e-mail. Anadarko is a minority partner in the Macondo well.  Drilling contractors active in the Gulf extended gains from
yesterday after the administration’s announcement, reflecting
relief by investors in “an industry they’ve been chastising for
the last six months,” Gerry said.  Transocean Ltd. , owner of the Deepwater Horizon, the rig
leased by BP that exploded, rose 2.02, or 3 percent, to close at
$66.83 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Noble
Corp ., the world’s third-largest deep-water oil and natural gas
driller, rose 79 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $35.45.  Oceaneering
International Inc. , which supplied the underwater robots used to
help stop the leaking Macondo well, increased $1.53, or 2.8
percent, to $55.70.  Response Muted  Otherwise the response was muted, Gerry said. The
 Philadelphia Oil Service Sector Index  of 15 oil-drilling,
services and equipment companies rose 2.2 percent today. The
 Standard and Poor’s 500 Oil & Gas Drilling Index  gained 2.2
percent.  Permits for renewed deep-water drilling are likely to be
issued before the end of the year,  Michael Bromwich , director of
the Bureau of Ocean Energy, the Interior Department unit that
oversees energy production, said on the conference call.  “We are open for business,” Salazar said.  The assurances didn’t win over business groups.  Karen Harbert , president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Institute for
21st Century Energy, said in a statement that Obama lifted the
moratorium “in name only.”  “Even more needs to be done to get American workers back
on the job,” of exploring for oil,  Jack Gerard , president of
the American Petroleum Institute, a Washington-based oil
industry group, said in a statement.  Landrieu’s Hold  Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, said she won’t
release her hold on Obama’s nomination of  Jack Lew  to lead the
White House budget office.  Landrieu, who has said the drilling ban further hurt the
Gulf Coast economy already devastated by the effects of the BP
spill, had said she would delay Lew’s Senate confirmation until
the moratorium was lifted.  “Today’s decision is a good start, but it must be
accompanied by an action plan to get the entire industry in the
Gulf of Mexico back to work,” Landrieu said in a statement
yesterday. “I am not going to release my hold on Jack Lew.”  Environmental groups were no more enthusiastic.  Peter Lehner , executive director of the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council, called the decision premature.  “Multiple panels are still investigating the accident, and
we need to have their answers -- and their solutions implemented
-- before we can confidently move forward with deep-water
drilling,” Lehner said in a statement.  ‘Pure Politics’  “This is pure politics of the most cynical kind,” Phil
Radford, executive director of Greenpeace USA, said in a
statement. “The White House wants us to believe that they have
solved all the dangers of offshore drilling and we can return to
business as usual. It is a false promise, if not a big lie.”  The Interior Department rules are aimed at tightening
workplace safety on offshore rigs and beefing up standards for
equipment. Chief executive officers will have to certify that
their companies comply with the regulations. Drillers also must
provide third-party verification that blowout preventers,
devices designed to cut off oil flow in a leak, are properly
designed and can stand up to pressure under all conditions. A
blowout preventer failed in the BP spill.  “The overwhelming share of the cost imposed by these
regulations will fall on companies drilling deep-water wells,
which are predominately the larger companies,” the department
said. “In fact, 90 percent of the total costs will be imposed
on deep-water lessees and operators where small businesses only
hold 12 percent of the leases.”  The true test will be how the administration handles
applications for drilling, said  Michael McKenna , president of
MWR Strategies, an oil-industry consulting firm in Washington.  “Until the lawyers and consultants and companies get
experience with the permitting process as it actually happens on
the ground, things are going to go very slowly,” he said in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  