-- U.S. Airline August On-Time Rate Second-Best Recorded
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-10-12T17:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/u-s-airlines-post-81-7-percent-august-on-time-rate-topping-09.html
U.S. airlines  had their second-best
August for on-time flights since data has been kept in 1995, as
81.7 percent arrived within 15 minutes of the posted time,  U.S.
data  shows.  Carriers including  United Continental Holdings Inc.  and  US
Airways Group Inc.  were helped by lower traffic volumes and
improved weather in topping last year’s rate of 79.7 percent and
posting their best results since 2002, according to a
Transportation Department  report  issued today in Washington.  “The volume being down, the weather being relatively
benign and carriers working on improving their results -- all
three of those contributed to a good August,” said  Scott Nason ,
a Dallas consultant and former vice president for  AMR Corp. ’s
American Airlines.  Carriers have been trying to boost performance after
Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  imposed a rule April 29 that
set fines of as much as $27,500 per customer for runway delays
of three hours or more. Delays such as one aboard an  ExpressJet
Holdings Inc.  plane in Rochester, Minnesota, last year helped
prompt the rule.  In August, there was a single delay of more than three
hours, down from 66 in the same month last year and matching a
record low set in May, according to department data. An Aug. 5
United flight from Puerto Rico to Washington was diverted and
kept on the runway for almost 3 1/2 hours, the data show.  ‘Protecting Customers’  “These numbers show that the tarmac delay rule is
protecting passengers,” LaHood said in a statement. The results
have been achieved “with little or no increase in canceled
flights,” he said.  Carriers had said cancellations would rise as a result of
giving customers the option to leave planes to avoid fines.  About 1 percent of flights were canceled in August, the
same as a year ago, according to the department. It was the
first time since the rule took effect that cancellations didn’t
rise.  “Looking at August, the dependability was the second best,
yet the cancellation rate wasn’t down,” Nason said. “That it
isn’t down is continuing evidence that some number of flights
are getting canceled for reasons that didn’t exist a year ago,”
including the tarmac-delay rule.  Hawaiian Holdings Inc. ’s Hawaiian Airlines had the best on-
time rate in August at 95.6 percent, followed by  Alaska Air
Group Inc. ’s Alaska Airlines at 88.7 percent. Continental
Airlines finished third at 87.1 percent.  Delta Air Lines Inc. ’s Comair regional carrier had 76.4
percent of flights on-time, the lowest rate among the 18
airlines that reported results.  JetBlue Airways Corp.  had the
second-worst rate at 77.1 percent, followed by Delta at 77.4
percent.  San Francisco, Miami and New York’s LaGuardia had the worst
on-time performance among major airports, with fewer than 77
percent of flights arriving on time in August.  Phoenix’s airport had the best on-time performance in
August, at 87.2 percent, followed by Houston Bush and Seattle at
87 percent and 86.4 percent, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   or  lliebert@bloomberg.net . 