-- U.S. Military Can't Enforce `Don't Ask, Don't Tell' on Gay Service Members
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-12T22:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/u-s-military-barred-by-judge-from-enforcing-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-rule.html
The U.S. military was ordered to
stop discharging gays and lesbians who reveal their sexual
orientation as a federal judge put into effect a ruling that its
“Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy is unconstitutional.  U.S. District Judge  Virginia A. Phillips  in Riverside,
California, today ordered the military to “immediately suspend
and discontinue any investigation, or discharge, separation, or
other proceeding” under the policy against anyone in its
command.  Phillips ruled last month that the “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell” policy was unconstitutional. Today, she rejected the
government’s request to limit the earlier ruling only to members
of the Log Cabin Republicans, the group promoting equal rights
for gays and lesbians that sued the Defense Department to
overturn the policy.  “This order from Judge Phillips is another historic and
courageous step in the right direction, a step that Congress has
been noticeably slow in taking,” Alexander Nicholson, executive
director of  Servicemembers United , a gay and lesbian troops
organization, said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco may delay
enforcement of Phillips’s ruling during an appeal, according to
the statement.  “We have just learned of this ruling,” Cynthia Smith, a
Defense Department spokeswoman said in an e-mail. “We are now
studying it and we will be in consultation with the Department
of Justice.”  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Free Speech  Phillips ruled Sept. 9 that the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’
policy violates constitutionally protected due process and free
speech rights.  President  Barack Obama  pledged in his January 2010 State of
the Union address to lift the prohibition on gays and lesbians
serving openly in the military, and the Defense Department is
conducting a review of how the ban would be ended.  The House of Representatives passed legislation on May 28
that would repeal the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy issued by
President  Bill Clinton  in 1993. The Senate on Sept. 21 failed to
pass legislation that would repeal the ban.  Discharge Moratorium  “Until the Senate can act on the repeal of this policy and
send it to the president’s desk, the administration should place
a moratorium on all dismissals under this policy,” House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a Democrat from San Francisco, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Phillips today rejected a request by the government to not
issue an injunction until it had time to review the ruling and
request a delay in enforcing it.  “As the court previously noted, defendants cite no
authority for the proposition that district courts should stay
litigation concerning the constitutionality of federal laws for
an indefinite period merely because the legislative and
executive branches have expressed doubts concerning the
continued wisdom of the challenged laws,” Phillips said.  The military discharged 259 men and 169 women last year
under the law. As many as 66,000 gay men and women may be
serving in the U.S. military, about 2.2 percent of all
personnel, including 13,000 on active duty, according to a study
by the Williams Institute of the University of California at Los
Angeles School of Law.  The case is Log Cabin Republicans v. U.S., 04-08425, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 