-- Uganda Investment Says it May Approve CNOOC, Total as Tullow's Partners
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2010-10-12T10:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/uganda-set-to-approve-tullow-oil-asset-sale-to-cnooc-total.html
Uganda is set to approve  Tullow Oil
Plc’s  sale of oil field assets to Cnooc Ltd. and Total SA, said
Patrick Bitature, the chairman of the Uganda Investment
Authority.  “Government has given a nod in principal,” Bitature told
reporters today in the capital, Kampala. Planned investments by
Cnooc and Total are expected to be reflected in the authority’s
reports for the last quarter of the year, he said.  Tullow, the U.K. explorer with the most licenses in Africa,
announced plans for a three-way partnership with  Cnooc  and
France’s  Total  after acquiring stakes owned by Heritage Oil Plc,
its former partner in Ugandan oil blocks.  While there is a moratorium on awarding new oil
exploration blocks because of pending legislation, Cnooc and
Total’s participation will be approved because they are joining
an already licensed project, Bitature said.  “We look forward to another successful quarter to crown the
year 2010,” he said at the unveiling of an investment report for
the last quarter. “We hope we will be able to include the
investments in the oil and gas sector.”  Tullow and Heritage found commercially viable oil deposits
in Uganda. The explorer acquired Heritage’s interest in two
blocks for $1.5 billion in August after Uganda gave conditional
approval for the sale in July.  Uganda has an estimated 2 billion barrels of oil, with 800
million barrels already discovered, according to Tullow.  Tullow, Cnooc and Total will develop fields in the Lake
Albert basin, which may pump more than 200,000 barrels of oil a
day in 2014 or 2015. The explorer increased its estimate for
discovered resources in Uganda to 1 billion barrels of oil from
an earlier forecast of 800 million barrels.  Uganda is set to become an oil producer when London-based
Tullow begins production at the Kasamene field next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  