-- Ugandan Court Dismisses Opposition Treason Charges
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2010-10-12T11:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/ugandan-court-dismisses-treason-charges-against-opposition-leader-besigye.html
Uganda ’s Constitutional Court
dismissed charges of treason against  Kizza Besigye , the
country’s main opposition leader, said Ibrahim Nganda Semujju, a
spokesman for Inter-Party Cooperation, a coalition group.  “The court has ruled in favor of Besigye,” Semujju said in
a phone interview today from Kampala, the capital. “He has no
pending case following this dismissal.”  Besigye, 54, was arrested in 2005, after his return to
Uganda from four years of self-imposed exile in South Africa,
and charged with rape and treason. Uganda’s High Court dismissed
the rape charge in 2006 and in 2007 Besigye appealed against his
trial for treason in both the military and civil courts.  The opposition coalition, which includes Besigye’s Forum
for Democratic Change, on Aug. 31 endorsed Besigye as its
candidate to compete against President  Yoweri Museveni  in an
election scheduled for February. Museveni has ruled Uganda since
January 1986, when he seized power following a five-year
guerrilla war against the regimes of former presidents  Apollo Milton Obote  and Okello Lutwa.  The Ugandan leader won elections in 1996, 2001 and 2006,
though the Supreme Court ruled that the last two votes were
marred by irregularities. The ruling National Resistance
Movement endorsed him last month to seek re-election.  Uganda is Africa’s biggest grower of robusta coffee and is
set to become an oil producer when London-based  Tullow Oil Plc 
begins production at the Kasamene field next year. The country
has an estimated 2 billion barrels of oil, with 800 million
barrels already discovered, according to Tullow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 