-- Lumber Futures Rise to Four-Month High After U.S. Disputes Canada Pricing
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-10-12T18:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/lumber-futures-rise-to-four-month-high-after-u-s-disputes-canada-pricing.html
Lumber futures rose the maximum
permitted by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, reaching a four-
month high, as the U.S. disputes the pricing of wood imported
from Canada, the biggest foreign supplier.  British Columbia is “under-pricing” timber from public
lands and “circumventing the export measures” in an agreement
the two nations reached in 2006, the Office of the U.S. Trade
Representative said in a  statement  dated Oct. 8. The U.S.
requested talks to resolve the dispute. Lumber futures have
surged 13 percent from a week ago and 30 percent in the past
year.  “It just creates uncertainty, and that’s probably why
lumber prices have gone up,” said  Hakan Ekstrom , the president
of Wood Resources International LLC in Bothell, Washington.  Lumber futures for November delivery jumped the CME’s $10
trading limit, or 4.3 percent, to settle at $244 per 1,000 board
feet at 1:05 p.m. in Chicago, the highest price since June 4.  The cost of wood has jumped in the past year, partly on
speculation that a housing recovery would boost demand.  There may be “changes in how much lumber Canadian sawmills
could send into the U.S. if the U.S. delegation is successful in
restricting or adding some kind of tax,” Ekstrom said.  A U.S.-Canada pricing agreement may take a “long, long,
long time,” he said.  “The British Columbia government is effectively funneling
back hundreds of millions of dollars in collected export fees to
BC producers,” the U.S. Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports said
in a  statement  dated Oct. 8. This “has caused serious harm to
the entire North American industry,” it said.  If the dispute isn’t resolved in 40 days, either party may
refer the matter to arbitration, according to the U.S. Trade
Representative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  