-- Hungary May Restart Seized Mal Alumina Refiner After Toxic Sludge Spill
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-12T14:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/hungary-may-restart-seized-mal-alumina-refiner-after-toxic-sludge-spill.html
Hungary’s government may restart as
early as this week the alumina plant whose toxic sludge
reservoir burst last week, killing at least eight people,
flooding three towns and polluting rivers.  The government, which took control of Magyar Aluminium Zrt.
yesterday, will decide tomorrow whether to resume production,
 Gyorgy Bakondi , the commissioner in charge of the company, said
at a press conference. Hungary has no plans to nationalize Mal,
said Anna Nagy, a spokeswoman for the Cabinet.  “It is highly likely that production can be resumed,”
Bakondi told reporters in Budapest today. The government is
seeking to protect jobs at the company, he said.  The reservoir burst on Oct. 4, releasing almost as much
hazardous waste as the volume of oil that spilled into the Gulf
of Mexico when a  BP Plc  rig exploded earlier this year. The
sludge, created by the production of alumina, is highly
alkaline.  Police yesterday detained Zoltan Bakonyi, Mal’s chief
executive, on suspicion of “public endangerment causing multiple
deaths” and of causing environmental damage. Bakonyi submitted a
statement to authorities and lodged a complaint because of his
detention, according to MTI news service.  Investigators searched the Mal’s Budapest offices today,
Bakondi said. The company has “always met to the letter” all
safety requirements for the reservoir, Mal said in a statement
posted on its website yesterday.  ‘Unsalvageable’ Reservoir  Mal, a closely held company owned by Hungarian individuals,
is Hungary’s only alumina refiner and the country’s second-
largest company in the aluminum industry, according to its
website. It employs 1,100 people in and around the Ajka refinery
and exports 80 percent of the alumina it produces, which
accounts for 12 percent of the European market, it said.  The red sludge reservoir, which belongs to Mal, is
“unsalvageable” because of its cracked walls,  Zoltan Illes , the
state secretary for the environment, said, according to MTI.
Authorities are building a dike through the inundated village of
Kolontar to contain a potential second spill.  The reservoir released as much as 700,000 cubic meters (25
million cubic feet) of sludge last week. An estimated 4.9
million barrels (27.5 million cubic feet) of crude oil spilled
into the Gulf of Mexico over almost three months after BP’s
Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 