-- Erste, UniCredit, Intesa, KBC, Raiffeisen Commit to Hungary Even After Tax
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-12T16:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/hungary-lenders-not-planning-exiting-market-on-tax-central-banker-says.html
Erste Group Bank AG , Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA,  KBC Groep NV , UniCredit SpA and Raiffeisen Bank
International AG, five of Hungary’s seven largest lenders, said
they aren’t planning to pull out of the country.  Hungary this year imposed a special levy on the financial
industry to plug a hole in the  budget . The levy has drawn
criticism from the European Central Bank and the International
Monetary Fund for its size.  Three lenders are mulling closing their operations in
Hungary because of the tax, the daily Budapest-based  Nepszava 
said today, without citing anyone or naming the banks. The
central bank doesn’t know about any banks considering to pull
out, Magyar Nemzeti Bank Vice President  Julia Kiraly  told
reporters in Budapest today.  “Hungary is one of the home markets where we want to be
present,”  Viviane Huybrecht , a spokeswoman for KBC in Brussels,
said by telephone today.  Raiffeisen Bank is “committed to Hungary and has no
intention of withdrawing from its banking market,” spokesman
 Peter Klopf  wrote in an e-mail.  Erste Chief Executive Officer  Andreas Treichl  said he could
see no circumstances in which the lender would pull out of
Hungary, the Financial Times reported. Investment in the
country’s banks will dry up unless the government changes its
tax policy, he said, according to the FT.  ‘Strategic Interest’  Hungary is a “strategic interest” to Intesa, a
spokeswoman said, adding that the bank is a “reliable and long-
term investor” in the country. UniCredit doesn’t plan to exit
and its plans for Hungary haven’t changed, a spokeswoman said.  Hungary’s largest foreign-owned banks last year pledged to
keep doing business in the country and add capital as needed to
cope with the worst recession in 18 years.  Bayerische
Landesbank ,  Erste Bank , Intesa, KBC, Raiffeisen Bank and
UniCredit in May 2009 reiterated their commitment to the country
at a meeting in Brussels.  “The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has no information about any bank
planning to pull out of the Hungarian market,” Kiraly said.
“At the same time, we consider the biggest risk of the bank tax
being the banking system’s reduced ability to attract capital
and thus its ability to lend.”  OTP Bank Nyrt. is Hungary’s largest lender by assets,
followed by KBC’s local unit K&H Bank Zrt., Bayerische
Landesbank’s MKB Bank Zrt., Erste Bank Hungary Nyrt., Intesa’s
CIB Bank Zrt., Raiffeisen Bank Zrt. and UniCredit Bank Hungary
Zrt., according to a May  study  by the International Training
Center for Bankers in Budapest.  Revenue from the bank tax will total 182 billion forint
($941 million), the government said on Oct. 1. Hungary is ready
to take further measures to make sure it meets this year’s
budget-deficit target of 3.8 percent of gross domestic product,
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 