-- Hungary Central Bankers Face `Conflict' on Rates, Policy Maker Kiraly Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-12T09:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/hungary-central-bankers-face-conflict-on-rates-policy-maker-kiraly-says.html
Hungarian rate-setters continue to
face the “same conflict” between rising price pressures and a
“weak” economy, central bank Vice President  Julia Kiraly  told
reporters today in Budapest.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  held its benchmark two-week deposit
rate at a record-low 5.25 percent on Sept. 27, leaving it
unchanged for a fifth month. The decision was supported by six
policy makers, with one rate setter backing a cut to 5 percent.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government last month pledged
to reduce the 2011 budget deficit to less than the European
Union limit of 3 percent of output, two months after falling out
with international lenders over the target. The commitment
helped improve Hungary’s risk assessment and changed the stance
of policy makers who had pushed for tightening.  “We are facing the same conflict,” Kiraly said. “There is a
sort of inflationary pressure from the exchange-rate
depreciation and the global increase of raw material prices.
These inflationary pressures are balanced by the weakness of
domestic demand. Undoubtedly, the next decision will also be a
difficult decision. There is no quick, simple solution.”  The forint fell 0.4 percent to 274.15 per euro at 11:43
a.m. in Budapest. The currency has gained 4.6 percent against
the euro since Orban’s pledge on Sept. 8, the best performance
of about 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Before the budget
commitment, the forint was down 5.9 percent in 2010, the worst
performance among 31 major currencies.  Inflation Accelerates  Inflation  accelerated to 3.8 percent in September from 3.7
percent in August, which was the lowest rate since June 2009,
the statistics office said today. Price rose more slowly than
economists estimated because the falling costs of consumer
durables and clothing outweighed accelerating fuel and food
inflation.  There is a “realistic” chance inflation will slow to the
central bank’s 3 percent target, and policy makers will only
raise borrowing costs if it becomes inevitable because it wants
to help an economic recovery, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President
 Andras Simor  said on Sept. 27.  Gross domestic product  shrank 6.3
percent last year, the most since 1991.  Possible Rate Increase  Policy makers raised the possibility of increasing the
benchmark rate in August after the talks broke down. Supporters
of higher borrowing costs, including Simor, argued that an
increase would strengthen the forint, spur domestic demand and
boost economic growth.  A rate increase is still possible if the inflation outlook
worsens or the country’s risk assessment deteriorates, Simor
said last month.  The government bowed to EU pressure to commit to a budget
deficit of less than 3 percent of GDP for 2011. Detailed plans
for next year’s budget, to be released this month, may further
improve the country’s risk assessment, according to Simor.  “Those who changed their views within the council from
last month did so basically because they had a positive view on
the budget-deficit announcement,” he said. “The market will
only be able to judge the real value of this announcement when
the 2011 budget is unveiled.”  Hungary’s economy showed no growth from the previous three
months in the second quarter as rising exports failed to
compensate for austerity measures that stifled domestic demand.
Annual growth accelerated to 1 percent from 0.1 percent, the
Budapest-based statistics office said on Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  