-- Hurricane to Spare Mexican Resorts on Path to Cuba
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2010-10-13T09:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/hurricane-paula-likely-to-spare-mexican-resorts-oil-wells-on-path-to-cuba.html
Hurricane Paula’s winds probably
won’t be enough to damage Mexico’s hotels and beach resorts as
the storm skirts past the east coast of the Yucatan Peninsula on
a path toward western Cuba, a risk analyst said.  Paula’s strongest sustained winds were 100 miles (160
kilometers) per hour, according to a  National Hurricane Center 
website advisory at 5 a.m. Miami time. The storm is a “small”
Category 2 hurricane on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson  scale, the
center said.  “There should be little or no damage, apart from window
damage, to engineered structures in this region -- i.e., modern
hotels in the popular tourist resorts of Cozumel and Cancun,”
Tim Doggett, principal scientist at  AIR Worldwide Corp.  in
Boston, said in an e-mailed statement. AIR is a risk modeler for
the insurance industry.  The official track shows the storm, 60 miles east-northeast
of Cozumel, Mexico, is passing northward at 9 mph off the
Yucatan’s east coast. It then is expected to turn north-
northeastward into the Yucatan Channel and come ashore in
western Cuba later this week.  “The people there are going to have to prepare for it to
come ashore,”  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather Underground
Inc.  in Ann Arbor, Michigan, said yesterday. “They are in the
cone of uncertainty.”  The storm won’t be a threat to U.S. oil installations in
the Gulf of Mexico, according to  Jim Rouiller , senior energy
meteorologist for Planalytics Inc in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  Heavy Rain  The main impact may be heavy rain rather than damaging
winds as Paula, a small storm, stays out at sea. The storm’s
hurricane-force winds of at least 74 mph extend out as much as
15 miles, and its tropical storm-force winds of at least 39 mph
reach 60 miles from the eye.  “It is pretty tiny,” Masters said. “And that small size
is going to make it vulnerable to rapid decay.”  Paula is the ninth hurricane and the 16th named storm, with
winds of at least 39 mph, to form in the Atlantic season. The
average season has 11 named storms.  “We don’t often make it up to the letter P in the alphabet
and it is only October,” Masters said. “On average we can
expect one more or two more named storms. It is shaping up to
being one of the busiest seasons of all time.”  Drenching Storms  Last month, Tropical Storm Matthew drenched Honduras,
Guatemala and southern Mexico. Tropical Storm Karl plowed across
the Yucatan on Sept. 15 after coming ashore south of Cancun,
then strengthened into a hurricane over the gulf before striking
mainland Mexico near Veracruz. Cancun will be the site of two
weeks of United Nations climate talks starting Nov. 29.  Earlier this season, Hurricane Alex struck the area, as did
Tropical Storm Agatha, which came in off the Pacific. At least
300 people have died from this year’s storms, according to
reports from several Central American nations.  Paula may produce as much as 10 inches (25 centimeters) of
rain over western and central Cuba with lesser amounts over the
Yucatan, according to the advisory.  “These rainfall amounts could cause life-threatening flash
floods and mudslides,” the center said.  Rouiller said after Paula dissipates models suggest another
storm may form next week south of Jamaica.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net 
 Randall Hackley  in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  