-- Vaccine Makers Get Mixed Reception From U.S. Justices
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-12T19:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/vaccine-makers-get-mixed-reception-from-u-s-justices-over-injury-lawsuits.html
U.S. Supreme Court  justices signaled
they may split on the scope of the pharmaceutical industry’s
shield from lawsuits over injuries allegedly caused by vaccines.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, the justices
questioned whether federal law lets two Pennsylvania parents sue
 Pfizer Inc. ’s Wyeth unit for marketing a vaccine that allegedly
caused their daughter to contract a seizure disorder. The
parents say Wyeth, which made the vaccine and was later acquired
by Pfizer, should have marketed a safer formulation.  A ruling letting the parents press that claim might allow
suits by thousands of families that say vaccines caused autism
in their children. Some justices suggested that allowing so-
called design defect suits might prove so expensive that
drugmakers would leave the vaccine business.  “It doesn’t take too many $60 million verdicts to make you
come out on the other side of your calculus,” Chief Justice
 John Roberts  said to the lawyer representing the parents.  Other justices, led by  Sonia Sotomayor , said manufacturers
need an incentive to put safer alternatives on the market,
rather than waiting for the Food and Drug Administration to
order a change. A 1986 federal law shields vaccine manufacturers
from many lawsuits, instead funneling complaints into a no-fault
system that offers limited but guaranteed payments for injuries
shown to be caused by a vaccine.  “What’s the motivation for manufacturers to voluntarily
remove a drug that is causing harm to the public before the FDA
acts?” Sotomayor asked.  Wyeth Vaccine  Since 1988, more than  13,000 families  with children
allegedly harmed by vaccines have filed claims under the no-
fault system, seeking compensation from a $2.5 billion
government trust fund.  The high court case concerns Hannah Bruesewitz, 18, who
began experiencing seizures after receiving the third of five
scheduled doses of Wyeth’s Tri-Immunol diphtheria-pertussis-
tetanus vaccine.  Her parents, Russell and Robalee Bruesewitz, sought
compensation from the special court that handles vaccine claims.
That court rejected the claim, saying there was no proof that
the vaccine contributed to Hannah’s problems. The Bruesewitz
family then took the case into federal court in Philadelphia.  Wyeth, acquired last year by New York-based Pfizer, is one
of four companies that supply vaccines for the U.S. market. The
other three -- units of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ,  Merck & Co.  and
 Sanofi-Aventis SA  -- filed a brief urging the court to rule in
Wyeth’s favor. The Obama administration is also backing Wyeth.  Avoid Side Effects  The issue for the Supreme Court is whether the 1986 law
leaves open the possibility that patients can sue manufacturers
in federal court when the side effects were avoidable.  Most lower courts to consider the issue, including the
federal appeals court in the Bruesewitz case, have said the 1986
law bars claims that vaccine makers could have taken steps to
reduce side effects.  The case could divide the high court evenly because Justice
 Elena Kagan  isn’t taking part. A 4-4 ruling would leave the
lower court decision intact -- barring the Bruesewitz family
from suing -- without setting a nationwide precedent.  In February, the Lancet medical journal retracted a 1998
study that linked a vaccine to autism and bowel disease after a
U.K. investigation found flaws in the research.  The case is Bruesewitz v. Wyeth, 09-152.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 