-- Mvelaphanda Won't Oppose Avusa's Planned $134 Million Acquisition of UHC
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-12T13:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/mvela-group-persuaded-not-to-oppose-avusa-s-134-million-purchase-of-uhc.html
Mvelaphanda Group Ltd. , an
investment holding company, was swayed to drop a bid to oppose
the 925 million-rand ($134 million) acquisition of Universal
Print Group and Hirt & Carter by Avusa Ltd., even while it still
questioned the timing of the transaction.  “We have been persuaded that the transaction will most
likely be value-neutral to Avusa’s shareholders should a number
of contemplated initiatives be implemented,” Mvela said in a
statement today. Mvela has a 25.5 percent stake in Avusa,
according to Mvela’s  annual report .  Mvela met with investors of UHC Communications Ltd., the
seller of the two assets, on Oct. 11 and agreed Avusa can be
used as “a platform for consolidation in the media
environment,” according to the statement. Mvela still believes
that Avusa is entering into the transaction at “an
inappropriate time in its business cycle,” it said.  Business Day reported Oct. 6 that Mvelaphanda Holdings Ltd.
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Willcox  was seeking support from
Avusa’s institutional investors to block the transaction, and
Mvelaphanda questioned the amount offered for the assets.  Coronation Asset Managers, which holds about 25 percent of
Avusa on behalf of clients, is voting in favor of the
transaction, the Cape Town-based fund manager’s Chief Investment
Officer  Karl Leinberger  said in a phone interview today.  “We have done checks with UHC clients and they are very
positive about the company and loyal,” Leinberger said. “It’s
a good business that is well-run,” he said, adding the price
that is being offered is “fair.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  