-- Vietnam Calls for Peaceful Resolution of Maritime Disputes as China Balks
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-12T10:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/vietnam-calls-for-peaceful-resolution-of-maritime-disputes-as-china-balks.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
said recent territorial disputes in Asian seas are an increasing
threat to the region’s stability and encouraged a maritime code
of conduct that China has so far resisted.  “Disagreements over territorial claims and the appropriate
use of the maritime domain appear to be a growing challenge to
regional stability and prosperity,” Gates told a meeting of
Asia Pacific defense ministers today in Hanoi, according to a
copy of his speech. “Competing claims should be settled
peacefully, without force or coercion.”  Gates’ call for dialogue contrasted with comments by
Chinese Defense Minister  Liang Guanglie , who said not all
disagreements should be handled in a group forum. China has
resisted finalizing rules to prevent skirmishes in the  South
China Sea , where it contests sovereignty with Vietnam and
several Asian neighbors.  “Practical cooperation within multilateral frameworks does
not mean settling all security issues,” Liang said today,
according to a copy of his speech. Asia’s biggest defense
gathering should cover “easier issues,” he said.  Conflicts in the South China Sea, which Beijing sought to
keep off the agenda, were mentioned by the U.S., South Korea,
Japan, Vietnam and several other  Southeast Asian  countries in
the meeting, Vietnam’s Deputy Defense Minister Nguyen Chi Vinh
said. The final statement made no mention of the disputes.  Asean Rebuff  “We should enhance dialogue and cooperation to build
confidence and mutual trust,” Vietnam Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung  told the ministers in Hanoi. Cooperation should include
“the respect for national independence and sovereignty and
resolving disputes with peaceful means,” he said.  The inaugural Asean Defense Ministers Meeting Plus Eight
includes the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , and
counterparts from the U.S., China, Australia, New Zealand, India,
Japan, South Korea and Russia. Asean rebuffed a push by some of
the bigger powers to make the event an annual affair, said  Surin Pitsuwan , the 10-member bloc’s secretary-general.  The next meeting will be in Brunei in 2013. Ministers
agreed to set up “working groups” in the meantime to work on
humanitarian assistance, maritime security, counterterrorism,
military medicine and peacekeeping operations, Vietnam Defense
Minister  Phung Quang Thanh  said.  ‘Disappointing’  “The fact that they decided to meet only every three years
is disappointing,” said  Ian Storey , a fellow at the Institute
of Southeast Asia Studies in Singapore. “These joint working
groups are focused on fairly non-sensitive issues.”  Gates repeated a U.S. offer to help facilitate discussions
between Asean and Beijing on a full code of conduct in the South
China Sea. Asean aims to see a breakthrough on an agreement in
2012, the 10-year anniversary of a preliminary deal on resolving
disputes in the sea, Surin said.  A working group to implement the 2002 Asean-China  agreement 
on the South China Sea “hasn’t achieved anything,” Storey said.  Vietnam, Asean’s current chair, last week urged China to
release a fishing boat and crew detained close to disputed
islands in the South China Sea. China “unconditionally” freed
the nine Vietnamese fishermen seized on Sept. 11, Thanh Nien
newspaper reported today, citing Phung.  A similar incident between China and Japan more than 1,000
miles (1,600 kilometers) away last month sparked a diplomatic
feud between Asia’s two largest economies. Liang and Japan’s
Defense Minister,  Toshimi Kitazawa , yesterday agreed to create a
liaison system to prevent conflicts at sea, Agence France-Presse
reported, citing Jiji Press.  Clinton Call  China’s actions in the seas are “clearly on everybody’s
mind and fall within the rubric of maritime security,” Gates
told reporters yesterday after separate meetings with Liang,
Phung and Kitazawa.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  drew a terse response
from the Chinese government in July when she called settling
territorial disputes off China’s southern coast “a leading
diplomatic priority.” The comments were “virtually an attack
on China,” Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  said at the time.  China, Taiwan, Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines and
Brunei hold claims to islands in the South China Sea. Its waters
carry about half the world’s merchant fleet by tonnage each year,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  ‘Force as Leverage’  “America’s slightly more interventionist approach to the
South China Sea dispute will most likely harden the Chinese
position,” said Li Mingjiang, assistant professor at the S.
Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore. China
“will implicitly use its military force as leverage” when it
negotiates with Southeast Asian countries, he said.  The meeting came as the U.S. and China sought to mend ties
strained by U.S. arms sales to Taiwan and support for other
Asian allies. Gates accepted Liang’s invitation to visit China
early next year during a meeting yesterday.  China announced in March it would spend 532.1 billion yuan
($79.6 billion) on defense this year. The Pentagon estimates
that actual Chinese military spending is twice that amount. The
Pentagon has requested a total of $708 billion for its
operations, including money for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan,
for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.  “China pursues a defense policy that is defensive in
nature,” Liang said in his speech today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  