-- Wal-Mart U.S. Sales Not Bouncing Back, Cleveland Research Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-10-12T20:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/wal-mart-u-s-same-store-sales-not-bouncing-back-cleveland-research-says.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  may fail to
turn its sales around by the holiday season as executives have
forecast since the discount retailer has yet to lure customers
back to stores, according to Cleveland Research Co.  Wal-Mart aimed to revive  sales  at U.S. stores open at least
a year by returning items to shelves and revamping promotional
displays. Those moves haven’t worked yet because of poor in-
store execution and a lack of advertising to explain changes to
customers, Cleveland’s  Jeff Stinson  said in a report today.  “Sales have drifted south again over the last couple
months, and the outlook for the fourth quarter is now more
questionable,” said the  analyst , who is based in Cleveland.
“We are less optimistic that the business will inflect
favorably in time for the holidays.”  U.S. stores chief  Bill Simon  said in August he expected
those moves to help reverse the trend in sales at U.S. stores
open at least a year, which have slumped for five straight
 quarters . The retailer, the world’s biggest, faces increasing
competition from other discounters, department and dollar stores
as consumers struggle to emerge from the economic slump.  Wal-Mart spokesman  Greg Rossiter  declined to comment. Wal-
Mart fell 69 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $53.92 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have risen
less than 1 percent this year.  In August, Wal-Mart  forecast  that third-quarter comparable
store sales in the U.S. would range from a 2 percent drop to a 1
percent gain. In last year’s third quarter, comparable store
sales fell 0.5 percent.  Tomorrow, Wal-Mart will hold its annual  investor  day in its
hometown of Bentonville, Arkansas, where analysts expect the
company to discuss changes made to its pricing and merchandising
strategies to drive traffic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 