-- WaMu, Thompson Publishing, Leslie, Point Blank, Louisville: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-12T12:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/wamu-thompson-publishing-leslie-point-blank-louisville-bankruptcy.html
Most if not all of the  Washington
Mutual Inc.  examiner’s report should be filed publicly on Nov.
1, as the result of procedures laid down by the bankruptcy judge
for resolving confidentiality disputes.  The examiner,  Joshua Hochberg , will report on the merits of
a settlement among WaMu, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The contents of many documents to be
covered in the report were obtained under confidentiality
agreements that prohibit public disclosure of underlying
information.  In an order on Oct. 8, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Mary F. Walrath  created a procedure where objections to public
disclosure of documents or their contents are to be worked out
between Oct. 25 and Oct. 28. To the extent that disputes aren’t
resolved, the examiner’s report will be filed publicly in
redacted form on Nov. 1. The entire report will be filed under
seal.  WaMu filed a revised plan and disclosure statement last
week incorporating a modified settlement with the FDIC and
JPMorgan that increases the recovery by holders of senior bonds
issued by the failed bank subsidiary Washington Mutual Bank. For
a discussion of the changes, click here for the Oct. 7 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. WaMu’s revised plan would distribute more
than $7 billion to creditors. To read about the settlement
before it was modified, click here for the May 24 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. Click here to read the May 18 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report for a summary of WaMu’s plan.  The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank subsidiary was taken
over. The bank, which had been the sixth-largest depository and
credit-card issuer in the U.S., was the largest bank failure in
the country’s history. The holding company filed formal lists of
assets and debt showing property with a total value of $4.49
billion against liabilities of $7.83 billion.  The holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Washington
Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  U.S. Trustee and Ableco Object to Thompson Publishing Sale  Thompson Publishing Holding Co., a publisher of newsletters
and loose-leaf services on regulatory issues, is facing
opposition to procedures for the auction and sale of the
business. Objections were filed by the U.S. Trustee and by
creditor Ableco Finance LLP.  A hearing to approve sale procedures is set for today.  The U.S. Trustee says that the proposed procedures for the
auction give the first-lien lenders control “at every step.”
The lenders are also the intended purchasers, unless someone
submits a higher bid.  Ableco contends there is no need for an “extremely
expedited sale process.” According to Ableco, the company is
“not bleeding cash” and the time periods for the auction are
“unnecessarily truncated.”  The U.S. Trustee, an arm of the U.S. Justice Department,
pointed out how proposed auction rules require Thompson to
obtain the consent of the lenders in deciding who is qualified
to bid and who made the best bid at auction. In addition, the
lenders would have “discretion” to decide whether to permit a
sale, the U.S. Trustee claims.  Thompson filed under Chapter 11 on Sept. 21. Unless outbid,
the first-lien lenders would buy the company in exchange for $42
million in secured debt. The buyer must also assume liabilities
on subscriptions and obligations to employees. The loan
agreement requires having approval of the auction process within
20 days of the Chapter 11 filing and an auction within 45 days.  Based in Washington, Thompson has 300 products and 70,000
subscribers. The company expects revenue will decline this year
to $49 million. Debt includes $122.6 million owing on first-lien
debt with PNC Bank NA serving as agent. Second-lien creditors,
owed $43.5 million, have Ableco Finance LLC as agent.  Thompson is controlled by Avista Capital Partners LP. The
company generated 74 percent of income from subscription. It
also arranges conferences and employee training events.  The case is In re Thompson Publishing Holding Co., 10-
13070, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Cuban and Crane Seek Reimbursement from Texas Rangers  Mark Cuban  and  James Crane , who bid unsuccessfully at the
auction for the  Texas Rangers  baseball club, filed papers asking
the bankruptcy judge for reimbursement of $2.65 million for what
they say was their “substantial contribution” to the
successful outcome of the case.  As a result of their bids at the auction in August, the
price for the team rose almost $100 million, Cuban and Crane
said in their papers filed last week in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Fort Worth, Texas. A hearing on their motion for reimbursement
will be held Oct. 25.  Crane, a Houston businessman, and Cuban, owner of the
National Basketball Association’s Dallas Mavericks, say their
intervention brought a “peaceful resolution of these cases.”
The two are asking for reimbursement of attorneys’ fees and
other expenses under Section 503 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
where a creditor can receive payment for making a “substantial
contribution in a case.” Crane and Cuban will need to persuade
the judge that they fall within the category of creditors
entitled to reimbursement.  If allowed by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Michael Lynn , the
recovery for Crane and Cuban would in effect be taken from money
that otherwise would go to secured lenders who were owed $525
million.  The team emerged from reorganization in August soon after
the auction under a confirmed Chapter 11 plan where the club was
purchased by a group including team President  Nolan Ryan  and
sports lawyer  Chuck Greenberg .  The Rangers filed under Chapter 11 in May with a sale
contract and a plan that claimed to be paying all creditors in
full. The original contract with the Ryan-Greenberg group had a
cash price of $304 million. Michael “Buzz” Rochelle, brother
of Bloomberg reporter Bill Rochelle, is a lawyer for an agent
for the lenders.  The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  Sea Island Auctioned for $212.4 Million Yesterday  The auction for Sea Island Co., a resort and real estate
development company, ended yesterday with a high bid of $212.4
million, an improvement on the opening bid of $197.5 million
from a company affiliated with Oaktree Capital Management LP and
Avenue Capital Group.  Near the end of an all-day auction, competing bidders
Starwood Capital Group Global LP and Anschutz Corp. joined with
Oaktree and Avenue to make the final bid, according to a report
in the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. The combination of the
bidding groups was approved by secured creditors and the
official creditors’ committee, the Atlanta newspaper reported.  The sale is scheduled for approval as part of a Nov. 4
confirmation hearing for approval of the Chapter 11 plan at U.S.
bankruptcy court in Savannah, Georgia.  Sea Island’s properties are on or near St. Simons Island
and Sea Island, Georgia.  Before the price rose at auction, Sea Island projected
having $180 million remaining after paying priority claims. If
unsecured creditors vote for the plan, they are eligible to
split $3 million, for a projected 3 percent recovery on their
$100 million in claims.  The remaining $177 million under the pre-auction price
would go to secured lenders with $566 million in claims. Their
recovery originally was expected to be 31 percent. Unsecured
creditors are projected to receive nothing if they vote against
the plan and don’t give releases.  The Chapter 11 plan and the original sale was negotiated
before the bankruptcy petition was filed on Aug. 10.  Synovus Bank,  Bank of America Corp.  and Bank of Scotland
are lenders.  The case is In re Sea Island Co., 10-21034, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Georgia (Savannah).  Asbestos Creditors Vote in Favor of Leslie Reorganization Plan  Leslie Controls Inc., a subsidiary of  Circor International
Inc. , has the green light for a confirmation hearing tomorrow
now that more than 90 percent of asbestos claimants voted in
favor of the prepackaged reorganization plan. The plan was
negotiated with lawyers for asbestos claimants in advance of the
July 12 Chapter 11 filing.  Tampa, Florida-based Leslie is using Chapter 11 to deal
with 1,307 asbestos personal injury claims. The plan will create
a trust for asbestos claimants funded with $74 million cash from
Circor plus a $1 million note secured by the stock of Leslie.
The trust will also have the right to sue insurance companies.  The bankruptcy court in Delaware approved the disclosure
statement in August that explains the plan, which will give
protection from asbestos claims to parent Circor and the former
parent Watts Industries Inc.  The asbestos claims arise from valves made by Leslie that
contained two components with asbestos. Leslie believes it has
$48 million in insurance coverage remaining.  Circor rose 16 cents yesterday to $34 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Leslie’s revenue represents
approximately 5 percent of Circor’s consolidated revenue. Circor
had a net loss of $5.5 million in the first half of 2010 and
$5.8 million net income in 2009.  The case is In re Leslie Controls Inc., 10-12199, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  New Filing  Holiday Inn in Louisville Files, Mortgage in Default  The owner of the  Holiday Inn Hurstbourne  in Louisville,
Kentucky, filed for Chapter 11 protection on Oct. 8 in
Louisville.  The 271-room hotel hasn’t made principal payments of
$45,000 a month on the $13.9 million mortgage since October
2009. The mortgage is part of the collateral in a pass-through
trust. Wells Fargo NA is trustee for the trust.  The property is currently appraised for $10 million, court
papers say. Previously, the assessed value was $14.1 million.  There is about $500,000 in unsecured debt, according to a
court filing.  The case is In re RW Louisville Hotel Associates LLC, 10-
35356, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District Kentucky
(Louisville).  Briefly Noted  Lehman Takes in $213 Million in Mediation Settlements  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  reported to the bankruptcy
judge yesterday that it will collect more than $213 million from
31 derivatives settlements with 37 counterparties. All 17
disputes that went into mediation were settled, the letter to
the bankruptcy judge said.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports. Lehman said this
month that intends to amend the plan in the last quarter of the
year and have the plan approved in a confirmation order by
March.  The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Point Blank Says Buyers Inspecting Financial Docs  Point Blank Solutions Inc. , a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, reported that
prospective buyers are examining financial information in a data
room. The status report was contained in a motion seeking an
expansion until Feb. 9 of the exclusive right to propose a
Chapter 11 plan. The hearing on the exclusivity motion is set
for Nov. 23.  Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,
Florida, and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 was more than $153 million. The petition listed assets of
$64 million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan paid off by financing for the Chapter
11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade
suppliers. The former chief executive and chief operating
officer were convicted in September of orchestrating a $185
million fraud.  The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  Petters Trustee Sues JPMorgan Chase, Ritchie Capital  The trustee for Petters Group Worldwide and Petters Co. is
teaching investors that they can be compelled to return payments
they received from a Ponzi scheme, even without knowing there
was a fraud. The latest defendants to be sued include  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and Ritchie Capital Management LLC. For Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  The companies’ founder, Thomas Petters, was convicted in
December on 20 counts including fraud, conspiracy, and money
laundering and given a 50-year prison sentence. After a raid by
federal investigators, a receiver was appointed for Petters’
companies. The receiver put them into Chapter 11 in October
2008.  The Chapter 11 cases for the two Petters companies are In
re Petters Co. and In re Petters Group Worldwide LLC, 08-45257
and 08-45258, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Minnesota (St.
Paul).  Exchange Offer News  Marisco Fund Manager Parent Exchanging $600 Million  Marsico Parent Co. LLC, an affiliate of mutual fund manager
Marsico Capital Management, has seen funds under management
decline by more than half to $48 billion since the peak in 2007.  Marisco is offering to exchange the $600 million of 10.625
percent senior subordinated notes due January 2016 for an equal
amount of senior subordinated notes due 2020. The debt will be
issued by a newly created holding company named Marsico Holdings
LLC. Interest on the new notes will vary between nothing and 15
percent, depending on cash flow. The holders also will receive
30 percent of the equity of the new holding company.  Managed assets were $106 billion at the time of the debt-
financed management buyout in late 2007. Denver-based Marisco
specializes in investing in large-capitalization growth stocks,
according to Standard & Poor’s.  Advance Sheets  Courts Have Concurrent Jurisdiction on Stay Suits  The federal courts are split on whether a federal district
court has concurrent jurisdiction with the bankruptcy court over
a lawsuit claiming the defendant violated the so-called
automatic stay in bankruptcy.  In the case before U.S. District Judge  Dana Sabraw  in San
Diego, an individual in Chapter 7 sued the secured bank lender
contenting there was fraud when the lender caused the bankrupt
to add new collateral before the Chapter 11 case was converted
to Chapter 7. The plaintiff also contended the actions violated
the automatic stay prohibiting efforts by creditors to recover
on pre-bankruptcy debt.  Sabraw cited how the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York
ruled in 2001 that a claim for a stay violation may be brought
only in the bankruptcy court because the district court only has
appellate jurisdiction over stay violations.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta came down the other
way in 2005, holding that the district court has concurrent
jurisdiction with the bankruptcy court.  Sabraw said the issue is undecided in the 9th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals, which sits San Francisco and makes law
covering federal courts in California. Concluding there is
concurrent jurisdiction, Sabraw decided to follow the Atlanta
court and therefore denied a motion to dismiss the complaint.  The case is Gray v. Preferred Bank, 09-2010, U.S. District
Court, Southern District California (San Diego).  Top-Hat Plan Payments Refunded If Company Is Insolvent  If a company terminates and makes a distribution to
officers under a so-called top-hat deferred compensation plan,
the recipients can be compelled to return the payments if the
company was insolvent at the time of the distribution, the 9th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco said in an
unpublished opinion.  A top-hat plan provides deferred compensation to high-level
company officers. Although money to fund the payments may be
held in a trust, the plans provide that trust funds go to
creditors if the company is insolvent.  Before bankruptcy, the company terminated the plan and made
distributions from the funds to company officers. The district
court dismissed a lawsuit to recover the payment. The 9th
Circuit reversed on Oct. 8.  The circuit court said that termination “does not mean
that the employer may actually pay the participant if the
company is insolvent at the time of payment.”  The circuit court remanded the case to the district court
for a determination about whether the company was insolvent at
the time of payment.  The case is Pham v. Decker (In re community Lending Inc.),
09-15302, 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 