-- Warsaw Stock Exchange Wins Approval From Regulator to Sell Shares in IPO
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-12T12:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/warsaw-stock-exchange-wins-approval-from-regulator-to-sell-shares-in-ipo.html
Poland’s financial regulator
approved the prospectus for an initial public offering by the
Warsaw Stock Exchange, paving the way for the first trading
debut by a central European bourse operator.  Poland plans to sell 64 percent of the country’s sole
exchange this month as part of a plan to raise 25 billion zloty
($8.8 billion) to help finance the 2010 budget gap and curb
borrowing, the financial-services regulator said in e-mail. The
government this year sold stakes in the nation’s biggest
insurance, energy, copper and phone companies.  The exchange will publish its IPO prospectus on its  website 
early on Oct. 14, Anna Wisniewska, a spokeswoman for the Warsaw
bourse said by phone.  The Polish bourse is the third-largest in emerging Europe
after Russia and Turkey, with a market capitalization of $187
billion and more than 550 companies listed on its main market
and NewConnect platform.  Poland has had the highest number of IPOs annually in the
region since at least 2004, Bloomberg data show. Companies have
raised $4.35 billion in 51 IPOs this year, with the largest
offerings coming from energy utility  Tauron Polska Energia SA 
and insurer  Powszechny Zaklad Ubezpieczen SA .  First in Region  The bourse, created two years after the 1989 fall of
communism, will be the first publicly traded exchange operator
in central Europe. It’s the second exchange IPO this year,
following a June listing by CBOE Holdings Inc., the last major
U.S. securities exchange owned by its members. CBOE raised $339
million selling 11.7 million shares at $29 each after offering
them at $27 to $29.  Poland’s exchange posted net income of 91 million zloty in
2009.  NYSE Euronext , the biggest operator of U.S. stock
exchanges, currently trades at 11.8 times last year’s earnings,
while Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. is valued at 10.9 times profit,
according to Bloomberg data.  The Warsaw bourse’s regional peers in Prague and Budapest,
in which Wiener Boerse AG owns stakes, aren’t publicly traded.  Warsaw’s  benchmark WIG20 Index  has increased 10 percent
this year, compared with 9.9 percent for Hungary’s BUX Index and
the Czech PX Index’s advance of 2 percent. The WIG20 Index added
0.4 percent to 2,636.64 at 2:05 p.m. today.  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and UBS AG will be the IPO’s global coordinators. Ipopema
Securities SA, KBC Groep NV, Societe Generale SA, PKO Bank
Polski SA, Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA, Alior Bank SA, Banco
Espirito Santo SA, IDM SA and Wood & Co. will also help manage
the offering, according to the Treasury Ministry’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  