-- Weber Says ECB Should Phase Out Bond Purchases `Now'
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-12T23:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/weber-says-ecb-should-phase-out-bond-buying-now-weigh-end-to-other-steps.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Axel Weber  said the ECB should stop its bond-
purchase program, threatening to remove a lifeline for European
governments and banks trying to shore up their finances.  “These securities purchases should now be phased out
permanently,” said Weber, who also heads Germany’s Bundesbank,
in a  speech  delivered in New York yesterday. With policy makers
debating when to withdraw other emergency measures, Weber said
the risk of “exiting too late” is greater than the danger of
“exiting too early.”  The remarks, the strongest from any ECB official advocating
a removal of stimulus, came as governments and banks in  Ireland ,
 Portugal  and  Greece  struggle to convince investors they can fix
their budgets and balance sheets in the aftermath of this year’s
sovereign debt crisis. The intervention may also influence some
European leaders as they decide who to appoint as the next ECB
president when  Jean-Claude Trichet  retires next year.  “His comments certainly didn’t do his ambitions for the
ECB presidency any favors,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief
European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, in
London. “At the same time, he is being true to himself and he
is speaking as the president of a central bank in a country
where the economy is booming and where  interest rates  are far
too low.”  European bond markets were closing as Weber’s remarks were
published at 6 p.m. Frankfurt time.  The euro  was little changed
and traded at $1.3870 at 8:07 p.m. in Frankfurt.  EU Push  The ECB started buying  bonds  in May as part of a European
Union-wide push to rescue the euro after the Greek crisis
threatened to undermine the 16-nation currency bloc. The
purchases, criticized by Weber on the day they were announced,
aimed to smooth the functioning of European bond markets, which
were roiled as investors speculated on whether Greece, Ireland
and Portugal would default on debts.  That didn’t stop the extra yield that investors demand to
hold Irish and Portuguese 10-year bonds over German bunds
climbing to records as recently as Sept. 28. The Irish spread
was at 422 basis points yesterday and Portugal’s at 398 points.
Greece’s premium was at 679 points.  Weber, who said in an interview in August that good central
bankers don’t necessarily need to be diplomats, said “there is
no evidence that asset purchases have had any significant impact
on average euro-area sovereign bond yields.”  Reinvigorating Rules  Providing Greece with a 110 billion-euro ($153 billion)
lifeline to repay its debt violated the region’s no-bailout rule,
Weber said. The clause, which forbids countries to pay for the
debt of others, “needs to be reinvigorated.”  At the same time, “it wouldn’t be bad” if buyers of newly
issued euro-region government bonds were forced to contribute to
a “crisis resolution regime,” he said. A clause that makes
senior debt holders partly responsible “could be a useful
instrument.”  Weber is regarded by economists as a frontrunner to succeed
Trichet when his non-renewable eight-year term at the ECB
expires in just over a year. Trichet regularly characterizes his
job as acting like a spokesman for the ECB’s 22-member board.  Weber Defense  “It’s a role Weber would certainly have to grow into,”
said  Klaus Baader , co-chief European economist at Societe
Generale in London. “At the same time, don’t forget for now
he’s the president of the Bundesbank and not the ECB. He’ll have
to defend the Bundesbank’s position against the interests of
some of the other central banks in the euro area, whose
economies have different needs.”  Germany’s economy expanded 2.2 percent in the second
quarter, the fastest since the country’s reunification in 1990,
and business confidence in September jumped to a three-year high.
By contrast, Irish manufacturing and services shrank last month
and Spain’s jobless rate touched 20.5 percent in August.
Portugal’s economy may shrink 1.4 percent next year, the
International Monetary Fund forecasts.  Weber’s language contrasts with Trichet’s reluctance to
plot out the ECB’s exit strategy. Speaking in New York yesterday,
Trichet reiterated his line that the ECB will wait until the end
of the year to decide its next step.  Unsettling Markets  “It could be seen as an attempt by Weber to seize the
agenda,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP
Paribas in London. “It doesn’t sound very much like what
Trichet said last week and that risks muddying the waters and
unsettling markets.”  Still, Weber said in his speech that ECB policy is
currently “appropriate,” signaling he sees no immediate need
to raise interest rates. Trichet said the same last week and
repeated the remark in New York yesterday.  The ECB is currently debating how long to leave its
emergency stimulus measures in place and how they should be
removed when the council decides to head for the exit. Since
August 2007, the ECB has been offering banks as much money as
they need at its benchmark interest rate. It has also cut that
key rate to a record low of 1 percent.  Weber said it’s necessary “not to postpone the exit from
non-standard measures for too long,” he said.  The ECB is concerned that some banks in the euro region
have become overly reliant on its funds, making it harder to
withdraw that liquidity without roiling financial markets.  High Bids  Weber said one risk of shifting its regular refinancing
operations back to a floating interest rate is that distressed
banks will place “high bids” for cash, which could translate
into higher market rates than before the crisis started.  Still, that issue could be addressed by offering banks
“generous” sums in its main operations, he said. That could
then be followed by a gradual ‘phasing-out process’’ in a
“step-by-step reduction of the allotment amounts, broadly in
line with the estimated decline in banks’ demand for surplus
liquidity.”  “Short-term money market rates would, over time, remain
close to the level of the key policy rate without undue
volatility,” he said.  ECB Outlook  Weber, viewed by economists as one of the Europe’s toughest
inflation fighters, also said that the ECB could raise interest
rates “before the phasing-out of non-standard measures has been
finished.”  Weber warned governments and investors that the ECB
can’t be expected to help out individual financial institutions
in distress.  “Our operational measures cannot provide the solution to
the problems still plaguing that part of the banking sector that
has limited access to the interbank market,” he said.
“Shareholders and governments solely remain responsible for
resolving remaining undercapitalization and funding issues at
individual financial institutions and will have to undertake
greater resolution efforts” as emergency measures are phased
out.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  