-- WellPoint, UnitedHealth Stock Buyback Focus Concerns Investors
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-10-12T21:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/wellpoint-unitedhealth-stock-buyback-focus-concerns-investors.html
WellPoint Inc. ,  Aetna Inc. ,  Humana
Inc.  and  UnitedHealth Group Inc.  denied health coverage to 49
percent more people over the past two years, citing pregnancy or
plans for adoption among their reasons, a U.S.  report  found.  The insurers rejected 651,000 applicants from 2007 to 2009
for illnesses or conditions they had before applying for
coverage, according to the report by the House Energy and
Commerce Committee, led by Representative  Henry Waxman , a
California Democrat. Each company had a business plan to exclude
pre-existing conditions, according to the report.  A Bloomberg National Poll released today found voters favor
by a 47 percent to 42 percent margin repealing the health-care
overhaul law Democrats passed, adding to Republicans’ momentum
to take control of Congress in the Nov. 2 elections. The report
may help Democrats focus the public on the law’s more-popular
provisions, among them a ban on insurers denying coverage due to
medical conditions, said Peter Harbage, a health-care consultant
in Sacramento, California.  “For Republicans running on a repeal health-reform
platform, the report forces them to tell voters why insurers
should be able to deny coverage to those who need it the most,”
said Harbage, previously an adviser to  John Edwards , a former
Democratic presidential candidate. The report cited internal
insurer  documents  the panel obtained.  Rising Denials  The companies turned down 257,100 people last year who
sought to buy benefits on their own and not through employers,
the House report said. They denied 172,400 applicants in 2007,
the report said. Enrollment increased by 16 percent in that
time, according to the committee.  Insurers  agreed to end denials for pre-existing conditions
early in the health-care debate last year, said  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for  America’s Health Insurance Plans ,
the industry’s trade group in Washington. Until all consumers
are required to buy health insurance, the coverage restrictions
are needed to keep people from gaming the system, he said.  “In the current individual market, applicants undergo an
underwriting process to discourage people from purchasing
coverage only after they need medical services, which drives up
costs for all policyholders,” Zirkelbach said.  Donald Nathan , a UnitedHealth spokesman, declined to
comment. Jill Becher a WellPoint spokeswoman, and Jim Turner, a
spokesman for Humana, referred questions to the trade group.  Aetna Responds  The House reports “document what many health insurers,
including Aetna, have been saying for years -- that the
individual market needs to be reformed so we can improve access
for all consumers,” said  Fred Laberge , an Aetna spokesman, in
an e-mail. “Improving access without also addressing the
underlying issue of rising medical costs will lead to higher
premiums for many consumers.”  One company cited “improved pre-existing exclusion
process” as a way to increase business, said the report. One of
the companies had a list of 425 conditions that could be used to
deny people insurance coverage, including pregnancy, diabetes
and heart disease.  Other documents in the report showed that people who were
surgical candidates, pregnant, female and “treated for
infertility within the past five years,” and “any applicant
with a (body mass index) 39.0 or greater” were denied health
insurance without any internal review by the company. The
committee obtained the documents in response to letters Waxman
sent in March. The report didn’t specify the insurers that
carried out the actions.  Economic Toll  The economy’s weakness probably pushed health plans to deny
more applicants, said Harbage, the consultant, whose clients
include nonprofit foundations and unions. Healthy customers were
more likely to drop coverage over the past few years, leaving
insurers with sicker customers more likely to drive up medical
costs, he said.  “Insurers looked for more ways to manage their risk and
profit,” he said. “The result is that many people who needed
coverage were turned away.”  Even as a plurality supported the health overhaul’s repeal,
the Bloomberg poll found strong backing for most of the law’s
provisions. Three-quarters favor its ban on insurance companies
denying coverage because of pre-existing conditions; 67 percent
support allowing children as old as 26 to stay on their parents’
policies. Also, 73 percent want to keep the addition of more
prescription-drug benefits for those on  Medicare , the U.S.
government’s health program for the elderly and disabled.  The survey of 721 likely voters was conducted for Bloomberg
on Oct. 7-10 by Selzer & Co., a pollster based in Des Moines,
Iowa. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.7 percentage
points.  Share Moves  UnitedHealth  gained 37 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $35.02 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Aetna
 increased  11 cents to $31.01. WellPoint  rose  27 cents to $55.66
and Humana  climbed  91 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $52.20.  The four insurers treat pregnancy as a pre-existing
condition and generally don’t offer coverage to expectant
mothers, the House committee said in a second  memo  that cited
company documents.  Expectant fathers and those about to adopt are often denied
as well, and documents show the companies have moved to limit
the availability of riders that can be bought to add maternity
coverage, the report said. One rider limited a woman to $6,000
in maternity benefits after she paid extra premiums for four
years, the report said.  In company documents, executives said maternity coverage
resulted in “higher prices, lower margins and loss of market
share,” the report said. Another document said one insurer
typically spent 90 percent of the premiums it collects on
medical care for policies with optional maternity benefits, “a
money-losing ratio.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 