-- WellPoint, UnitedHealth Stock Buyback Focus Concerns Investors
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2010-10-12T20:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/wellpoint-unitedhealth-buybacks-rile-investors-as-health-law-drops-shares.html
WellPoint Inc.  and competing U.S.
health insurers approved $10 billion in stock repurchases in the
past year, a concern to investors who say buybacks failed to
increase share prices and who want more spent on dividends.  The companies seek to boost stocks hurt by the health-care
law Congress passed in March as low interest rates for cash
investments limit their options, said  Brian Wright , a Collins
Stewart LLC analyst. Nine health plans, led by WellPoint and
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. , accounted for about 20 percent of cash
authorized for health industry buybacks in the past year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  WellPoint, UnitedHealth and  Aetna Inc. , the three biggest
plans by enrollment, have repurchased $51 billion in stock since
2004. The buybacks have disappointed investors who consider
dividends a better investment, said  Jeff Fahrenbruch , an analyst
at Barrow Hanley Mewhinney & Strauss, a Dallas-based money
manager with more than 23 million United and WellPoint shares.  The strategy has been “a colossal misjudgment,” said  Leon Cooperman , chairman of New York-based Omega Advisors Inc., a
holder of at least 1.5 million shares of each plan as of June
30. “They’re saying they know with a high degree of confidence
that this is the best choice for shareholders and they couldn’t
be more wrong.”  Average Prices  The buybacks haven’t paid off over time, Cooperman said.
Since 2004,  WellPoint  has bought back almost $20 billion in
stock at an average price of $64.92;  UnitedHealth  repurchased
about $21 billion at an average $41.15 a share; and  Aetna , $10.2
billion at an average $45.95, Cooperman said, citing company
filings. Each stock now sells for less than the average the
companies paid, he said.  WellPoint  rose  27 cents to $55.66 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. It’s fallen 14 percent
since March 30, when President  Barack Obama  signed the health
overhaul into law. Aetna increased 11 cents to $31.01, for a 12
percent  slide  since March 30. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell less than 1 percent in that time.  UnitedHealth climbed 37 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $35.02.
It has gained 5.9 percent since the bill signing, after boosting
its dividend and raising its 2010 profit forecast.  WellPoint, based in Indianapolis, pays no annual  dividend ,
while Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth increased its
offering to 50 cents a share from 3 cents in June.  Aetna , based
in Hartford, Connecticut, pays 4 cents a share. WellPoint is the
biggest health insurer by membership.  ‘Balanced Model’  “Our shareholders are supportive of a balanced model”
that buoys shares, saves for acquisitions and pays dividends,
 John Penshorn , UnitedHealth’s senior vice president for investor
relations, said in a telephone interview. “When we look at our
intrinsic value, it appears to management and the board that our
shares are a good value.”  Amerigroup Corp.  announced the latest buyback in a
statement Sept. 15. The Virginia Beach, Virginia-based insurer,
which focuses on low-income enrollees, doubled an existing
repurchasing plan to $400 million.  UnitedHealth authorized a repurchase that may exceed $4
billion in February, after WellPoint announced a $3.5 billion
program the prior month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Aetna announced a $1 billion buyback in July, while
 Humana Inc.  of Louisville, Kentucky, said in December it plans
to buy $250 million of shares.  Cigna’s Buybacks  Cigna Corp., based in Philadelphia, has repurchased $200
million this year, its then-chief financial officer,  Annmarie Hagan , told analysts on an Aug. 5 call.  Healthspring Inc.  of
Franklin, Tennessee; Universal American Financial Corp. of Rye
Brook, New York; and  Health Net Inc.  of Woodland Hills,
California, also announced buybacks over the past 12 months.  The nine insurers still had $18.6 billion in cash and
short-term investments as of June 30 for future acquisitions or
repurchases, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $10
billion authorized in the past 12 months was up from $750
million the prior 12 months and the highest total in four years,
according to Bloomberg data.  Insurers can afford the buybacks, and their shares are
likely to rise as lawmakers make changes to the overhaul that
blunt its impact, said Wright, the Collins Stewart analyst in
New York. While the law may add 32 million to the ranks of the
insured, it calls for $200 billion in taxes and funding cuts for
the industry in the next decade, along with more regulation of
health-plan premiums and spending.  Overhaul’s Prospects  “We’re seeing buybacks caused by low returns on
investments and lower  stock prices  because of uncertainty about
health-care reform,” Wright said. That may not change until the
overhaul’s effect is clearer, he said.  WellPoint and UnitedHealth should offer more to investors
in dividends rather than repurchases, Cooperman said.  “I like a stock repurchase when it’s practiced by
companies that have done the analysis correctly that their stock
is materially mispriced,” Cooperman said by phone.  UnitedHealth  reported $4.89 billion in free cash flow last
year, a measure of cash generated from operations minus capital
expenditures. WellPoint produced $2.66 billion in free cash.  WellPoint has cut shares outstanding by a third in the past
three years, to about 400 million, Chief Financial Officer  Wayne DeVeydt  told investors at a Sept. 13 conference. The company
still expects to have $2.5 billion in  cash  by the end of 2010,
and its board is considering whether to add a dividend, he said.  Returning Value  “We’ve been able to return a lot of value for
shareholders,” the CFO said.  The company declined to discuss the dividend further before
its Nov. 3  earnings report , said  Kristin Binns , a WellPoint
spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  WellPoint should offer shareholders a dividend and
UnitedHealth could afford to double its payment with the cash it
produces, said  Barrow Hanley’s  Fahrenbruch.  Like other companies, insurers tend to repurchase when
they’re flush with cash, said Fahrenbruch. That’s when their
stock is likely to be most expensive, making it less of a
bargain, he said. By contrast, many shareholders may
automatically reinvest quarterly dividends in stocks, spreading
purchases over a longer period that averages high and low
prices, he said.  In the past five years,  UnitedHealth  has returned 70
percent of cash it generates to investors through dividends and
buybacks, said Penshorn, the investor-relations chief. It has
also expanded the company through  acquisitions , he said.  Twin Goals  The company aims for “a balance of investing in the
business and a return to shareholders and that return should be
balanced with repurchases and dividends,” he said.  Since 1997, UnitedHealth has bought 1.2 billion shares for
an average $24 while issuing stock at higher prices, Penshorn
said. Its dividend is a “respectable, initial” offering that
may be revisited, he said.  Aetna is focused on “providing an attractive return on
equity” for shareholders amid a slower economy and the health-
care overhaul,  Fred Laberge , a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We understand these conditions have had an impact on
current  valuations ,” he said. “But we believe in our strategy
and we continue to focus on the fundamentals of our business in
order to produce good results, which should ultimately be
reflected in the share price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
 Frank Bass  in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  