-- Wheat Futures Rise as Dry Spell in Great Plains May Harm U.S. Winter Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-12T19:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/wheat-futures-rise-as-dry-spell-in-great-plains-may-harm-u-s-winter-crop.html
Wheat futures rose for the third
time in four sessions on speculation that dry weather will harm
winter crops that U.S. farmers are planting in the Great Plains.  Fields in Kansas and Nebraska will be dry through Oct. 16
after “a few light showers” today, World Weather Inc. said in
a report. Much of  Kansas , the largest U.S. winter-wheat grower,
has received less than half of the normal amount of rain this
month, according to the  National Weather Service . Wheat futures
are up 31 percent this year, after drought in Russia cut output.  In the U.S., “we are seeding wheat now, and in a good many
areas we have some dry conditions,” said  Dewey Strickler , the
president of Ag Watch Market Advisers in Nashville, Tennessee.
“It could be a problem if places receive a little moisture and
then it ceases. That will hurt a wheat crop quicker than
anything, because if you get moisture and it turns drought, that
will kill the sprout.”  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 0.75 cent, or 0.1
percent, to settle at $7.10 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. On Oct. 8, the price surged 60 cents, the most
allowed by the exchange, after the U.S. Department of
Agriculture lowered its estimate for global stockpiles.  Futures “did find a little support” from the USDA report
last week, “but we still have ample supplies of wheat,”
Strickler said. U.S. production may reach 2.224 billion bushels
at the end of the marketing year on May 31, up 0.3 percent from
last year, according to the USDA.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  