-- Twitter Targets 1 Billion Users, Challenging Facebook for Ads
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-10-12T18:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/twitter-aiming-to-get-1-billion-users-matching-rival-facebook-s-target.html
Twitter Inc., the third-largest
social-networking site, pledged to boost its membership more
than sixfold to 1 billion, helping the microblogging service
compete with Facebook Inc. in attracting advertisers.  “Twitter will get to a billion members,”  Evan Williams ,
Twitter’s co-founder and former chief executive officer, said in
San Francisco yesterday, echoing a goal set by  Facebook .
Williams didn’t elaborate on a timeframe.  The company, whose users send more than 100 million short
messages daily, said last month that it will seek more
advertisers after a successful trial with such brands as
 Starbucks Corp. , ESPN and  Coca-Cola Co.  Social-networking
services, capitalizing on their millions of users, are
increasingly targeting ads as a main source of revenue.  “They certainly have defied expectations,” said  Greg Sterling , a San Francisco-based Internet consultant. “A lot of
people saw them purely as a niche service or dismissed their
capacity to have global reach. It’s within the realm of
possibility that they will get to a billion users.”  San Francisco-based Twitter started a test this year with
30 advertisers, including major movie studios,  Nike Inc.  and
 Best Buy Co.  Ads are displayed next to the site’s search results
and by the most popular topics on the right side of the Web
page. An estimated 9 percent of ads online are “touched” by a
user’s mouse for an average of 43 seconds, MediaMind
Technologies Inc., a maker of software for digital ad campaigns,
said last month.  A Billion Users  The benefit for marketers is instant access to target
groups of customers with specific messages, offers and
discounts.  Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking site,
has more than 500 million users, compared with 165 million for
Twitter. Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said
earlier this year that reaching a billion members, or about 15
percent of the world’s population, is “ almost a guarantee .”  Twitter, founded in 2006, revamped its site last month to
make it easier to post photos, video and maps directly on the
page. The redesign gives marketers a new way to use multimedia
in online promotions.  Twitter now ranks third globally among social-networking
sites, topping  News Corp. ’s MySpace, according to ComScore Inc.
in Reston, Virginia. Windows Live Profile is second.  Williams said the company is planning to offer an
advertising service to small businesses on the site, which will
complement ads it offers to bigger brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 