-- Iran Says Two Detained Germans Have Connections to Anti-Government Groups
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-12T08:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/two-detained-germans-have-connections-to-anti-government-groups-iran-says.html
Iran said it detained two Germans
who have connections with anti-government groups, after they
entered the country on tourist visas and spoke to the son of a
woman condemned to death by stoning.  “This is the reason for their arrest and their case is
being looked into,” Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said today in comments aired live by state
television. He declined to give further details.  Iran’s judiciary said yesterday the two had been arrested
after posing as journalists and interviewing the son of Sakineh
Mohammadi-Ashtiani, who was convicted in 2006 of adultery and
murder. Her death sentence by stoning has drawn international
outrage. Iran has condemned the media attention and the
“politicization” of her case, saying the woman is also guilty
of taking part in the murder of her husband.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  told reporters in Bucharest that
the German Foreign Ministry is working to free the two Germans.  “We have a huge interest in trying to free them,” Merkel
said today, in comments translated from Romanian. “We are doing
what we can but we don’t have any new information” on the
circumstances of the pair’s arrest.  The German citizens are journalists and were arrested in
the northwestern city of Tabriz two days ago with Mohammadi-
Ashtiani’s son, Sajjad Ghaderzadeh, and a lawyer, Houtan Kian,
according to a  statement  issued yesterday by the International
Committee Against Stoning, a campaigning group.  Iranian security forces entered Kian’s office while an
interview was taking place, according to ICAS. One of the
journalists was on the phone speaking with Mina Ahadi, the
group’s spokeswoman, and “had to abruptly end the call when the
security forces brutally pushed their way in,” ICAS said.  The location of the four detainees is unknown, the group
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Langan at 
 hlangan@bloomberg.net  