-- Two Steeds, Raving Idiot Upstage Pape ‘Boris’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-10-12T16:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/two-white-steeds-raving-idiot-upstage-pape-s-boris-debut-jeremy-gerard.html
Boris Godunov, unstrung by guilt,
dies before the final scene of Modest Mussorgsky’s depressing
opera about the mad 16th-century Russian czar.  That leaves time for his evil successor and his ambitious
wife to make their impressive entrance through a blood-thirsty
mob on a pair of white steeds, promising a rosy future which
they have no intention of making good.  There’s also time to almost forget the German bass Rene
Pape, singing the role at the  Metropolitan Opera  for the first
time, in a striking new production conducted by  Valery Gergiev .  Complicating matters, the original director, Peter Stein,
abdicated in July, offended by an insufficiently respectful
encounter with our immigration services which kept him waiting.
Stephen Wadsworth took over the staging at the last minute,
using sets, costumes and lighting commissioned by Stein, whose
strategy of emphasizing character over elaborate scenery is
nonetheless everywhere in evidence here.  That strategy doesn’t serve Pape especially well. A big-
voiced bass whose instrument may be too beautiful and whose
acting lacks much psychological heft, Pape is a more restrained
Boris than Met audiences are used to hearing.  When he sings, “My soul is troubled,” you may think he’s
wondering whether he turned off the kitchen faucet before
leaving for work. It’s not quite the same as night terrors
brought on by the memory of the kid he murdered to ensure his
ascendancy to the throne.  Soul Rattling  If we’re going to spend nearly 4½ hours with Boris, we
expect to be rattled by his fall from grace. There’s plenty of
rattling going on in this production, but it’s not emanating
from the top. That crazed mob, 120-strong on the Met stage,
undulates like a single organism, simmering with inchoate anger
that may put you in mind of a Tea Party rally where Glenn Beck
is speaking. They’re unsettling, as are the other crowd scenes,
organized with a rare attention to what the whole stage picture
looks like from our perspective.  So is the scene in which the Polish princess Marina plays
sexual hardball with the creepy cleric Rangoni, who encourages
her to use any means necessary, including fornication, to marry
the pretender to the throne Grigory and convert Russia to
Catholicism. The flame-haired mezzo Ekaterina Semenchuk makes
Marina as nasty a piece of work as possible, a perfect match for
the bass-baritone Evgeny Nikitin’s smarmish Rangoni.  Cunning, Childlike  Aleksandrs Antonenko’s cunning Grigory/Dimitry,  Andrey
Popov’s  chillingly childlike Fool, and Jonathan A. Makepeace’s
poignant turn as Boris’s adoring son, Fyodor, were all
outstanding.  Set designer Ferdinand Woegerbauer suggests the Kremlin
with a few golden panels and a throne on a raised pyramidal
platform; other scenes are similarly spare and effective. Most
striking is the use of an oversize book, meant to suggest a
Russian history inevitably repeating itself, in whose pages the
characters sometimes quite literally wrap themselves.  The spare conception seems downright shabby in the Poland
scene, when Marina is surrounded by a gaggle of white-gowned
ladies-in-waiting topped with silly white plumes by way of Dr.
Seuss. What ought to be an elegant garden offers hard park
benches and chairs that would not be out of place in a Gdansk
backyard.  Still, Duane Schuler’s subtle lighting imbues the simple-
seeming design with great visual texture, as does costume
designer Moidele Bickel, dressing the court in shimmering gold
and black; the peasantry in muted, earthy hues.  Even with some ravishing folksy melodies from Mussorgsky,
“Boris” can be a bit of a slog, but it was much less so under
Gergiev’s fleet, restrained conducting. The opening-night
audience had no hesitation raining applause on everyone
involved.  “Boris Godunov” continues in repertory at the
Metropolitan Opera, New York, through March 12, 2011.
Information:  http://www.metoperafamily.org .  ( Jeremy Gerard  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jeremy Gerard  in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 