-- Won's Surge May Help Bank of Korea to Dampen Accelerating Consumer Prices
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2010-10-13T03:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/won-surge-may-help-bank-of-korea-to-damp-rising-consumer-prices.html
Six straight weeks of gains in the
won may help the Bank of Korea to curb accelerating inflation
even as the surge endangers the export growth fueling Asia’s
fourth-largest economy.  Analysts are split on whether the central bank will tomorrow
add to July’s interest-rate increase from a record-low 2 percent,
the only advance this year. Four of 10 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News predict a quarter-percentage-point move to 2.5
percent, with the rest projecting no change after the currency’s
7.9 percent climb against the dollar in the past three months.  Trade gains fueled the fastest first-half expansion in a
decade in South Korea’s export-led economy, aided by the won’s
weakness over the period against rival currencies including
Japan’s yen. The won’s recent rally may pare growth in  shipments 
while curbing import costs and helping to restrain an inflation
rate that hit the highest level in more than a year last month.  “A stronger won is like a double-edged sword, as it can
help tackle inflation while posing a problem for exports,” said
 Oh Suk Tae , an economist at SC First Bank Korea Ltd. in Seoul.
“It’ll be difficult for the central bank to raise rates this
week when others like Australia’s are being very cautious with
monetary policy amid the so-called currency war.”  The won rose 1.2 percent against the dollar to 1,118.2 at
12:16 p.m. in Seoul today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It fell 1.3 percent yesterday amid speculation the
central bank may try to limit its gains. The currency is non-
Japan Asia’s second-best performer in the past three months.  Bond Yield  The yield on the 3.75 percent debt due June 2013 fell to
3.26 percent yesterday, the lowest level since the notes were
issued in June, according to the Korea Stock Exchange.  Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  left  borrowing costs 
unchanged for two straight months after July’s increase, joining
counterparts from Malaysia to New Zealand in pausing rate
advances to assess the global economy’s strength.  Kim , who also has to contend with record household debt and
sliding property prices, said last month the process of
normalizing the benchmark rate will take some time as the bank
must be certain of the world recovery.  Recent figures showed  consumer price growth  reached 3.6
percent last month, accelerating toward the top of the central
bank’s target of 2 percent to 4 percent on average through 2012.
South Korea’s bank lending to households rose for a seventh
month in September to 421.6 trillion won, a report showed today.  ‘Downside Risks’  Exports, which account for about half the economy, gained
at the slowest pace in 11 months in September. Shipments have
boosted earnings this year at companies including Samsung
Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, flat
screens and mobile phones.  “We expect no more rate hikes until the second half of 2011
as KRW appreciation delays monetary normalization and the BOK
focuses on downside risks to growth,”  Kwon Young Sun , an
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, said in a note
this month. The company last week cut its 2010 South Korea
economic growth forecast to 5.9 percent from 6 percent.  Disputes over currencies dominated the International
Monetary Fund’s annual meeting last week, after Brazilian
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on Sept. 27 that a
“currency war” of competitive devaluations was under way. The
issue is set to figure again at the summit of the Group of 20
economies in Seoul next month.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said two days ago that
G-20 members need to agree on solving problems such as currency
policies before the meeting. Protectionism threatening the
global recovery is a risk if nations shun international
cooperation, he said.  Countries from Brazil to Japan and South Korea itself are
stepping up efforts to cool gains in their currencies through
intervention or other measures. South Korean regulators will
start an audit of banks handling foreign-currency derivatives on
Oct. 19.  The  Bank of Korea  will begin its policy meeting at 9:00 a.m.
in Seoul tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Sim  in Seoul at   wsim2@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Munoz  in Hong Kong at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  