-- Dollar Falls Toward 15-Year Low Versus Yen After Federal Reserve Minutes
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-10-12T20:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/yen-advances-before-federal-reserve-minutes-as-decline-in-stocks-saps-risk.html
The dollar fell toward a 15-year low
against the yen and a record versus the Swiss franc as minutes
of the Federal Reserve’s September meeting showed the central
bank was poised to ease monetary policy “before long.”  The franc rallied against all of its major counterparts as
concern the global economic recovery is stalling spurred demand
for a refuge. The euro appreciated against the dollar on
speculation the European Central Bank will end purchases of
bonds before the Fed.  “The fact that there was a pretty uniform consensus that
quantitative easing is needed is weighing on the dollar,” said
 Boris Schlossberg , director of research at the online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York. “Prior to this, there was some
hope that there would be some more debate from the Fed.”  The dollar fell 0.3 percent to 81.83 yen at 4:07 p.m. in
New York, from 82.07 yesterday, when it touched 81.39, the
lowest level since April 1995. The euro gained 0.3 percent to
$1.3914, from $1.3876, after sliding 0.7 percent. The yen traded
at 113.85 against the euro, compared with 113.89.  The Dollar Index, used by  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.  to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, slid 0.1 percent to 77.345. It touched 76.906
on Oct. 7, the lowest level since Jan. 15.  The gauge of the U.S. currency has fallen 3.7 percent since
Sept. 21, when the central bank said in a statement following
its policy meeting that it’s prepared “to provide additional
accommodation if needed” to support the recovery.  ‘Before Long’  That phrase was meant to be in accord “with the members’
sense that such accommodation may be appropriate before long,”
according to the central bank’s minutes, released today.  The Fed will announce increases in its Treasury purchases
at its policy meeting Nov. 2-3, helping the U.S. avoid the
“very bad” economic outcome of a renewed recession, New York-
based  Jan Hatzius , chief U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said via e-mail.  The euro erased its drop earlier today after the European
Central Bank Governing Council member  Axel Weber , who heads
Germany’s central bank, said in text of a speech delivered in
New York that it’s time for officials to show how they will
withdraw emergency lending measures.  The remarks follow ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s last
policy statement just five days ago, in which he declined to
comment on the timing of the ECB’s exit strategy.  ‘By Surprise’  “There’s no question about the fact that the Weber
comments caught the market by surprise,” said  Carl Forcheski , a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “They’re reasonably hawkish
comments.”  The 14-day relative strength index of the euro against
dollar stayed above 70 for an 11th day in the longest stretch
since March 2008. A reading higher than that level indicates the
euro may be poised for a decline after appreciating 10 percent
in the past month.  Canada’s dollar gained versus the greenback after the Fed
minutes and a speech by Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who said
the nation plans to be the first Group of Seven country to erase
its deficit after the global financial crisis. The loonie
advanced 0.3 percent to C$1.0107 per U.S. dollar.  The Swiss franc appreciated as much as 1 percent to 95.56
centimes against the dollar as investors sought refuge from
economic uncertainty. It touched 95.55 centimes on Oct. 7, the
strongest level ever. The franc climbed 0.5 percent to 1.3322
per euro. The yen gained 1.6 percent to 13.83 South Korean won
and climbed 0.5 percent to 13.98 versus the Norwegian krone.  Drop in Won  The won retreated from a five-month high versus the dollar
on concern tighter lending curbs in China will cool demand for
South Korea’s exports. The currency declined 1.3 percent to
1,131.45 per dollar. It reached 1,110.75 yesterday, the
strongest level since May 3.  Thailand’s  baht  rose even as the government said it will
impose a tax on domestic bonds purchased by overseas investors
in its latest effort to stem gains in the currency. The baht
appreciated 0.4 percent to 29.94 versus the dollar, having
touched a 13-year high on Oct. 8.  Japan’s currency fell earlier today versus the dollar after
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said at a press conference in
Tokyo that the government is ready to take “bold” action on
currencies, including intervention.  The yen remained stronger than 82.88 per dollar, where it
traded on Sept. 15, when Japan acknowledged selling the yen to
help its export-dependent economy.  “The dollar-yen below 82 still looks to be a concern for
the Ministry of Finance,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior
currency strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank. “What they’re
waiting for is an opportunity to catch the market off guard to
magnify the extent of the move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  