-- Yuan Premium Hitting Record High in Hong Kong as Funds Hoard: China Credit
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-10-13T07:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-12/yuan-premium-hitting-record-high-in-hong-kong-as-funds-hoard-china-credit.html
Investors and companies are paying a
record premium to obtain yuan in Hong Kong’s offshore market,
taking advantage of looser restrictions to stock up on a
currency appreciating at the fastest pace in five years.  The yuan in Hong Kong rose 0.1 percent to 6.5350 per dollar
as of 2:49 p.m. local time, 2.1 percent more than the 6.6726
spot rate in Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The onshore rate climbed 1.7 percent last month, the most since
July 2005, and will gain another 4.8 percent by the end of 2011,
based on the median estimate in a survey of 17 analysts.
Overseas entities can only buy yuan on the mainland if they have
investment proposals or trade transactions approved by Chinese
regulators.  “The consensus is the yuan is going to rise and the
current premium is not big enough to bother investors,” said
 Andrew Ng , the Singapore-based head of treasury and markets at
DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Southeast Asia’s biggest bank.
“Getting cheaper yuan in the domestic market involves a lot of
paperwork.”  The widening gap between the onshore and offshore exchange
rates reflects strengthening international demand as China
spearheads a global economic recovery and U.S. President  Barack Obama  steps up pressure for faster appreciation. Premier  Wen Jiabao  is encouraging greater use of yuan in overseas trade and
investment.  Premium Quadrupled  The differential between interbank rates for yuan in Hong
Kong and Shanghai has quadrupled from last month’s average of
0.5 percent. Daily volumes average about $50 million, Standard
Chartered Plc estimated in an Oct. 5 report. Transactions in
Shanghai’s foreign-exchange swap market totaled $5.3 billion a
day in the first half of 2010, official figures show.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards in Hong Kong climbed
3.2 percent in the past month to 6.4540 per dollar in Hong Kong,
reflecting bets for a gain of 3.3 percent from the onshore spot
rate. The contracts, settled in dollars, enable investors to buy
and sell assets at a set price on a specified date.  Chinese importers, keen to obtain the cheapest dollars to
pay overseas suppliers, and foreign multinationals repatriating
income from the world’s second-largest economy are supplying
yuan to Hong Kong’s market, according to London-based Standard
Chartered. The city’s yuan  deposits , which have more than
doubled this year to a record 130 billion yuan ($19.5 billion),
are another possible source. Capital controls limit transfers
from the mainland.  McDonald’s  McDonald’s Corp., the world’s No. 1 restaurant chain and
located in Oak Brook, Illinois, is settling transactions with
its mainland units in yuan, according to Standard Chartered.  “Before the offshore yuan market became available there
were limited hedging opportunities for these multinational
companies,” said  Neil Daswani , regional head of transaction
banking for Northeast Asia at Standard Chartered, which has 60
branches in China. New investment products available in Hong
Kong “encourage these companies to hold more yuan,” Daswani
said.  Higher deposit rates for China’s currency are an added
incentive. HSBC Holdings Plc, which controls two of Hong Kong’s
three biggest banks, pays interest of as much as 0.81 percent on
yuan placed with it for 12 months in the city, compared with a
maximum 0.2 percent for U.S. dollars. The London-based lender
aims to have 100 branches in China by the end of this year.  Growth, Rating  Five-year interest-rate swaps, the fixed rate needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, have risen 29
basis points, or 0.29 percentage point, to 3.03 percent since
Sept. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
the 3.28 percent government bond due August 2020 has climbed 14
basis points in the same period to 3.35 percent, Interbank
Funding Center data showed. The finance ministry sold 28 billion
yuan of seven-year notes today at an average yield of 3.1
percent. The sale drew bids for 1.66 times the amount on offer.  China’s world-beating economic growth and improving
creditworthiness are also spurring demand for yuan. The
International Monetary Fund forecast last week that gross
domestic product will climb 10.5 percent this year, outpacing
expansions of 9.7 percent in India, 7.5 percent in Brazil and 4
percent in Russia. Moody’s Investors Service said it may raise
China’s debt rating from A1, five levels below the top Aaa grade.  The risk of insuring against a default by the Chinese
government is falling. Five-year  credit-default swaps contracts 
on the nation’s bonds fell 26 percent in the past month, the
biggest drop among more than 80 nations, and ended yesterday at
54 basis points, according to data compiled by CMA and Bloomberg.  China’s currency reserves rose to a record $2.65 trillion
on Sept. 30, the central bank reported today.  Exports  rose 25.1
percent last month from a year earlier, leading to a trade
surplus of $16.9 billion, the customs bureau said.  Bonds Rally  China’s $1 billion of 4.75 percent bonds due October 2013
rallied in the past month, sending the yield down 31 basis
points to 1.39 percent, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The  extra yield  investors require to hold China’s
debt instead of Treasuries was 83 basis points yesterday,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  “It’s just like for stocks; people like to buy stocks of
young companies to capture the upside as they grow,” said
 Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong Kong-based senior economist and
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “The same applies to China;
investors believe in the long-term story of China, so they try
to get as much exposure to it as possible.”  HSBC has sold deliverable yuan options in Hong Kong this
month that enable clients to bet on appreciation, including a
one-month contract versus the Australian dollar and a one-year
trade involving the greenback, it said Oct. 8.  Implied volatility on one-month dollar-yuan options, a
gauge of expected swings in exchange rates, jumped to 5.1
percent on Oct. 7, the highest level since January 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It was as low as 0.45 percent on Jan.
1. One-month options granting the right to buy the yuan against
the dollar cost 70 basis points more than contracts that allow
sales, up from a 12-month low of 20 reached on Sept. 1, the data
show.  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 