-- Taleb Says Unawareness of Deficit Risk Has Him `Extremely Bearish' on U.S.
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-09-24T23:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/-black-swan-author-nassim-taleb-says-u-s-not-aware-of-deficit-dangers.html
Nassim Nicholas Taleb , author of
“The Black Swan,” said he’s concerned budget deficits in the
U.S. are spiraling out of control and may now represent a bigger
problem than in countries such as Greece.  “The U.S. is probably the worst of all,” Taleb told
Canada’s BNN television network in an interview today. “They
are addicted to debt. We have an administration that, unlike the
European administrations, is not aware of the risks of mounting
deficits, of the addiction to public deficits and to big
government.”  Taleb told the cable network, “People are complaining
about Greece, but Greece has the IMF putting some discipline in
their system. Who can discipline the U.S. government?”  Greece this year has imposed a series of austerity
measures, including wage and pension cuts and higher sales
taxes, in exchange for a 110 billion-euro ($148 billion) rescue
from the European Union and International Monetary Fund. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  inherited what the National Bureau of
Economic Research said this week was the deepest U.S. recession
since the Great Depression. The government’s outstanding debt is
about $13.5 trillion, according to Treasury figures.  Risks to the global financial system are much larger than
before the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., Taleb said.  ‘Making Things Worse’  “People still don’t understand why we had the crisis and
they don’t realize that we are making things worse,” he said.
“We still have the same level of debt but we are transforming
private debt into public debt. We are socializing these risks,
and the system has fewer people employed. So we have a lot more
risks than we did in 2007.”  Taleb, in Montreal today to give a speech to a group of
business people, said Canada’s fiscal situation makes the
country a safer investment than its southern neighbor.  Canada has the lowest ratio of net debt to gross domestic
product among the Group of Seven industrialized countries and
will keep that distinction until at least 2014, the finance
department said in its March  budget documents . Canada’s ratio,
24 percent in 2007, will rise to about 30 percent by 2014. The
U.S. ratio, now above 40 percent, will top 80 percent in four
years, the department said, citing IMF data.  “I am extremely bearish on the U.S.,” he said. “I am
more bullish on Canada. Canada is much more robust than the U.S.
You guys have much less debt, much more manageable risks.”  Taleb wrote the 2007 best-seller “The Black Swan: The
Impact of the Highly Improbable,” which argues that history is
littered with rare, high-impact events. The black-swan theory
stems from the ancient misconception that all swans were white.  As the founder of New York-based Empirica LLC, a hedge-fund
firm he ran for six years before closing it in 2004, Taleb built
a strategy based on options trading to protect investors from
market declines while profiting from rallies. He now advises
Universa Investments LP, a Santa Monica, California-based fund
that bets on extreme market moves.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  