-- ABN Private Banking Is Betting on Equities, Says Favors European Stocks
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-09-24T10:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/abn-private-banking-is-betting-on-equities-says-favors-european-stocks.html
ABN Amro Private Banking is bullish
on equities and favors  European shares  over the U.S., despite
concern about a sluggish economic recovery and the likelihood of
central banks stepping in to spur growth.  Valuation  discounts  on the Euro Stoxx 50 relative to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and strong earnings forecasts at
companies from Intertek Group Plc to SGS SA will boost European
stocks, according to  Didier Duret , the chief investment officer
at ABN AMRO Private Banking which manages $200 billion. Further
stimulus from central banks will provide more liquidity for fund
managers and spur demand for equities, quashing concerns about a
prolonged slowdown in the economy and increasing chances of
deflation, or a broad-based decline in prices, he said.  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index, which is trading at 12.2 times the
earnings of its companies, has trailed the S&P 500, which is on
a multiple of 14.8, this year amid concern that European
nations’ efforts to slash budget deficits will harm growth and
hamper corporate profitability.  “There is a valuation buffer in terms of price-earnings,
in terms of earnings growth, in terms of the guidance that we
have from companies” in Europe, Duret said in an interview from
Geneva. “The risk is essentially a short-term macro risk and
the fact that central bankers are entering into the fray can be
misinterpreted. However, we think we can live through that.”  Deflation Concern  Concern about deflation has grown as Federal Reserve policy
makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month that the
pace of economic recovery “slowed in recent months.” The risk
of global growth being below trend in the fourth quarter of 2010
and the first quarter of 2011 is about 25 percent, according to
ABN estimates.  “The macro risk may not be as considerable as the fear of
it,” Duret said. “People are confused as to how to interpret
the course of action because this unconventional monetary policy
is beyond their comfort zone.”  The wealth manager is “overweight” information technology
stocks, with holdings in companies from Apple Inc. to Hewlett-
Packard Co. and Oracle Corp., as it estimates strong growth in
demand for hardware.  ABN is paying up for companies from Intertek, the U.K.’s
biggest product-testing company, to the Geneva, Switzerland-
based world’s biggest goods inspector, SGS. These companies
trade at more than 20 times their reported earnings and both are
forecast to increase their dividend, according to Bloomberg
data.  As well as an overweight equities position ABN is
“overweight” with its corporate bond allocation and
“underweight” government bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 