-- Labour Opposition Party Will Name Leader After Clash of Miliband Brothers
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-09-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/labour-opposition-party-will-name-leader-after-clash-of-miliband-brothers.html
The U.K. Labour Party names its new
leader today with polls suggesting the only national opposition
to Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s ruling coalition is gaining
support as government spending cuts bite.  David Miliband  or his brother Ed, both former Cabinet
ministers, will win the contest to succeed  Gordon Brown , polls
and bookmakers indicate. The winner will be announced at 4 p.m.
in Manchester, northern England, as delegates gather for the
party’s annual conference.  Whoever becomes leader will have 25 days to marshal an
opposition team and prepare a strategy for attacking the cuts
being planned by the coalition of Conservatives and Liberal
Democrat partners that took power after the May 6 election.
Departments face reductions of a quarter on average by 2015 in
the spending review to be announced on Oct. 20.  “The winner could be prime minister in five years and the
job is going to be tough,” said  Mark Wickham-Jones , a professor
of politics at Bristol University, in a telephone interview.
“Whoever wins is going to have to stamp their personality on
the party pretty quickly.”  A poll on Sept. 21 by YouGov Plc put Cameron’s
Conservatives, the senior party in the coalition, neck and neck
with Labour at 39 percent. Brown resigned as prime minister and
Labour leader after the party slumped to 29 percent of the vote
in May, seven points behind the Tories.  Rival Bids  The rival leadership bids of  David Miliband , a protege of
former Prime Minister  Tony Blair , and his younger brother, a
former aide to Brown, have dominated the five-candidate race.
The other candidates are former Children’s Secretary  Ed Balls ,
once the closest adviser to Brown, former Health Secretary  Andy Burnham  and  Diane Abbott , who in 1987 became the first black
woman in Parliament.  The race is Labour’s first contested leadership election
since 1994, when Blair won the party’s backing following the
sudden death of  John Smith . Brown replaced Blair in 2007 without
a challenge.  Labour’s electoral college is split into three, with
lawmakers, union members and party cardholders each making up a
third. Voters list candidates in order of preference, with the
candidate getting fewest votes in each round eliminated, and
further choices redistributed until one candidate has more than
50 percent of the votes. Voting ended Sept. 22.  Seeds of Division  In his memoir “A Journey,” published Sept. 1, Blair said
that his agreement with Brown that only one of them would run
for leader in 1994 sowed the seeds for battles over policy that
came to dominate his premiership. Brown was increasingly at odds
with Blair’s favored approach of bringing more competition into
the provision of public services such as health.  The Milibands were on opposite sides, with David, 45,
working for Blair as a proponent of “New Labour” while Ed, 40,
was in the Treasury with Brown. Ed has cited his experience of
the feud as a justification for running against his brother --
something unprecedented in modern British politics -- and
disputing policy openly.  David argued  during the leadership campaign the party must
leave the Blair-Brown era behind to become “Next Labour,”
renewing its ideas, doubling its membership and ensuring one
third of its ministers-in-waiting are female.  Ed said  Labour should reach out more to unions, the
voluntary sector, community and environmental groups. He also
said he wants to move away from the old divisions and supports
more women at the top of the party.  ‘I Love David’  Speaking to the Sunday Mirror newspaper last month, the
brothers denied suggestions the contest had created a rift
between them. “I love David very much and I still will when
this is over,” the Mirror cited Ed as saying.  David, nicknamed “Brains” when he served in the former
prime minister’s policy unit, became a lawmaker for the
northeastern district of South Shields in 2001. He entered the
Cabinet four years later, serving as environment secretary and
then moving to the Foreign Office. He argued Labour lost in May
because voters weren’t convinced it was committed to Blair’s
ideas to improve public services.  Ed entered Parliament in 2005, winning election in
Doncaster in northern England. He joined the Cabinet in 2007,
became energy secretary the following year and wrote Labour’s
election program. His attacks on Blair’s policies, including the
Iraq War, helped him win the backing of six labor unions and led
the Daily Mail newspaper to dub him  “Red Ed.”   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 