-- Hacker Pena Sentenced to 10 Years for Internet Phone Service Theft, Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-09-24T22:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/hacker-pena-sentenced-to-10-years-for-internet-phone-service-theft-sales.html
Edwin Pena, a convicted computer
hacker, was sentenced to 10 years in prison for stealing
Internet telephone service valued at $1.4 million and reselling
it to unwitting companies such as  IDT Corp.   Pena, 27, was sentenced today in federal court in Newark,
New Jersey, where he pleaded guilty in February, more than three
years after fleeing the U.S. while on bail. The Miami resident
went to his native Venezuela and then Colombia before living in
Mexico, where a girlfriend turned him in to authorities.  U.S. District Judge  Susan Wigenton  imposed almost the
maximum term under advisory guidelines, rejecting a request for
leniency from Pena and his lawyer. While committing the first
fraud of its type in the U.S., Pena bought a new house and
luxury cars and gambled in Atlantic City, New Jersey, and Las
Vegas, prosecutors said.  “You were a crook,” the judge said. “You were very
intelligent about what you were doing. You bought world-class
BMWs. You were gambling. You were flying. I hope you enjoyed
it.”  Pena was an unauthorized wholesaler of Internet-based phone
services who sold more than 10 million minutes at deep discounts
to customers, he admitted when he pleaded guilty. He hacked into
computer networks such as one owned by IDT, a Newark-based
telecommunications company, to route customer calls, he said.  To help him, Pena recruited another hacker, Robert Moore,
who pleaded guilty and was sentenced to two years in prison by
Wigenton.  ‘Job Was Hacking’  “He worked very hard at this job, and his job was hacking
and stealing other people’s money,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Erez Liebermann said.  With the money that he stole, Pena bought large assets in
the name of his girlfriend, including a Miami home, a 40-foot
motor boat, a 2004 BMW M3, a 2005 BMW 325, and a 2005 Cadillac
Escalade EXT, according to prosecutors.  Pena was arrested in June 2006. While on bail, he persuaded
a magistrate judge in Newark to order the ankle bracelet used
for his electronic monitoring removed, Liebermann said.  Pena fled, exposing his girlfriend and her parents to
forfeiture of houses they posted as bail, the prosecutor said.
He had a child in Mexico with another girlfriend who alerted
authorities to him after “she apparently was unhappy to learn
about his infidelities,” Liebermann wrote in court papers.  In his first day in a Mexican prison, Pena’s nose was
broken, and the conditions were so “extreme” that “he’s
probably never going to recover,” his attorney, Mike Chazen,
told the judge. Pena was extradited to the U.S.  Plea for Leniency  Chazen sought a two-year term, arguing that his client’s
actions were “aberrant,” that his Mexican prison stay was
brutal and that he wasn’t a leader of the fraud.  “I would like to apologize to the people of the United
States, to my family, and especially to my daughter,” Pena said
today. “I know I’m a changed person now. I’ve grown up. I know
I’ll be good from now on.”  The judge rejected those arguments, saying, “I don’t find
he has any credibility when he says he’s a changed person.”  The case is U.S. v. Pena, 09-cr-103, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 