-- GMAC, ACPI Investments, J&J, AstraZeneca, Venezuela, BP, KFC in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-09-24T10:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/acpi-investments-astrazeneca-bp-kfc-in-court-news.html
Texas and Iowa have begun
investigations into foreclosure practices at  Ally Financial
Inc.’s  GMAC mortgage unit.  Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott opened an investigation
“early this month,” said Tom Kelley, a spokesman for the
office. Iowa Attorney General Thomas J. Miller began his own
investigation into the company yesterday, Assistant Attorney
General Patrick Madigan said.  “The integrity of the foreclosure process is of utmost
importance and we are very concerned by the issues that have
been raised regarding Ally Financial’s treatment of
affidavits,” Madigan said. Iowa leads an 11-state working group
of attorneys general and bank examiners exploring ways to
prevent  foreclosures .  Gina Proia, an Ally Financial spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Iowa and Texas follow an announcement by Florida Attorney
General William McCollum, who  last month  said he was
investigating three Florida law firms handling foreclosures.  Florida investigators issued subpoenas in the case to the
Law Offices of Marshall C. Watson PA, Shapiro & Fishman LLP and
the Law Offices of David J. Stern PA, according to a news
release posted on the attorney general’s  website .  The law firms were hired by loan servicers to begin
foreclosure proceedings when consumers were in arrears on their
mortgages, according to McCollum’s office.  Homeowners facing eviction have accused the companies of
filing foreclosure actions without verifying that borrowers
actually defaulted or who owns the loans.  The company notified agents and brokers on Sept. 17 that
it had suspended evictions in 23 states. This week, Ally, the
Detroit-based auto and home lender, said it found a
“technical” deficiency in its foreclosure process allowing
employees to sign documents without a notary present or with
information they didn’t personally know was true.  New Suits  Ex-ACPI Partner Sues on Bonus, Bullying at U.K. Firm  The former chief investment officer of  ACPI Investments
Ltd. ’s fund-of-hedge-funds business sued the firm for
underpaying his bonus and claimed he was bullied by management.  Stephen Greene, who joined ACPI’s predecessor in early 2008
as a partner, said in the complaint filed in a London court this
month that he was “bullied, harassed and threatened.”  “There was a ‘culture of aggression’ within the defendant
in which partners shouted, swore and bullied staff on a regular
basis,” Greene said in the complaint. The company said the
claims are based on “fallacy.”  ACPI, which is based in London and says it manages more
than $2.75 billion, was formed last year by the merger of ACP
Partners LLP and TriAlpha Investment Advisors Ltd. Former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  partner Alok Oberoi helped found ACP in
2001 with a former Goldman colleague. Brett Lankester, the
former head of Goldman’s U.K. private client business, joined
ACP in 2007 and is now co-CEO of ACPI with Oberoi.  Lankester said in an interview yesterday that the company
was defending the suit “extremely vigorously, and the truth
will come out in court.”  “The whole case is completely baseless, it’s nonsense,”
Lankester said. “There’s not a single one of his assertions
which is based in fact.”  The case is Stephen Greene v. ACPI Investments Ltd., High
Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division (London).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Mortgage Investors Target Banks Through Novel Clearing House  Talcott Franklin, a former partner at lobbying firm  Patton
Boggs LLP , found a unique solution to a big problem: getting
money back for investors in residential mortgage-backed
securities that went bad. Franklin created a clearing house
where investors can pool claims and potentially create the
necessary legal clout to force mortgage lenders to buy back
improperly made loans at the heart of the securities,
Bloomberg’s Thom Weidlich and Jody Shenn report.  Before Franklin’s innovation, investors in such securities
had no way of knowing who other investors were. Franklin’s
approach may cost banks such as  Bank of America Corp.  billions
of dollars. Lenders can be required to buy back securitized
mortgages if they misrepresented their quality.  “If we’re going to have a mortgage system in this country
that’s not government controlled, this effort or an effort like
it will have to succeed,” says Bill Frey, head of Greenwich,
Connecticut-based securities firm Greenwich Financial Services
LLC. If the investors “don’t act together, the deals are going
to continue to take huge losses.”  Mortgage securities have been among the largest sources of
the $1.8 trillion of writedowns and credit losses suffered by
the world’s biggest financial companies since the start of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mortgage repurchases have cost the four biggest U.S.
lenders -- Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc.
and Wells Fargo & Co. -- $9.8 billion, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG. The total could exceed $179 billion for 11 of
the largest lenders, according to Chris Gamaitoni of Compass
Point Research and Trading LLC, a Washington-based investment
bank.  Franklin’s RMBS Investor Clearing House -- “RMBS” stands
for “residential mortgage-backed securities” -- is a “brave
new venture” that confronts the issue of having “these very
diverse, and even diffuse, interests even within a particular
securitization structure,” said Jeff Nielsen, of Chicago-based
 Navigant Consulting Inc. , who analyzes MBS litigation.  For more, click here.  J&J Faces Shareholder Fraud Lawsuit Over Motrin Recalls  Johnson & Johnson was sued for fraud over claims it lied to
investors about contamination at manufacturing plants and about
the repurchase of defective Motrin tablets from store shelves by
J&J-hired consultants.  The complaint by shareholder Ronald Monk claims  J&J  made
misleading statements before disclosing contamination at plants
in Puerto Rico and Pennsylvania, and the Motrin recall is now
under investigation by Congress. Monk’s complaint also cites the
April 30 recall of more than  40 types  of children’s medicines.  “As a result of the blatant, systemic, and repeated
failure of defendants to maintain proper manufacturing practices
at their facilities, defendants have been forced to issue over
eight separate recalls including dozens of products and hundreds
of millions of individual packages,” the complaint alleges.  The lawsuit, filed Sept. 21 in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey, comes amid a U.S. criminal investigation of the recalls
and a probe by a congressional panel that has scheduled a
hearing on J&J for Sept. 30. The company’s lawyers told the
 House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform  in a letter
yesterday that U.S. regulators knew its McNeil Consumer
Healthcare unit was recalling Motrin caplets last year.  Carol Goodrich, a spokeswoman for New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Company lawyers said that its McNeil unit informed the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration it was using a contractor to buy
defective Motrin from store shelves, according to a letter
obtained by Bloomberg News. Lawmakers investigating J&J and FDA
in the matter have dubbed the actions a “phantom recall.”  The case is Monk v. Johnson & Johnson, 10-cv-4841, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  U.S. Court Rejects Venezuelan Claim of Immunity to Bond Suit  A U.S. appeals court rejected arguments from the Venezuelan
government that it’s immune from having to litigate in an
American court an Ohio company’s lawsuit seeking to collect on
$100 million in bank notes.  The Cincinnati-based three-judge panel voted 2-1 in favor
of upholding a trial judge’s ruling that federal courts can hear
the claim, while leaving open the question of where the case
should be litigated.  Skye Ventures, based in Columbus, Ohio, acquired the
promissory notes in reliance upon an October 2003 memo from the
Venezuelan finance ministry’s solicitor general, who said they
were valid. The South American nation subsequently said the
notes, allegedly issued by state-owned Banco de Desarrrolo
Agropecuario, also known as Bandagro, were forgeries and refused
to honor them, according to the appeals court.  “This is a huge victory for us after five years of court
battles,” Skye Ventures President David J. Richards said in a
statement. Venezuela had sought dismissal of the case.  The court’s majority said that while Venezuela would
ordinarily be entitled to sovereign immunity, Skye had demanded
payment in the U.S. and Venezuela’s refusal “caused a direct
effect in the United States,” voiding its immunity claim.  Dissenting, U.S. Circuit Judge Boyce F. Martin said he
didn’t believe Venezuela had surrendered its immunity because it
had been Skye’s choice to demand payment at an American bank.  The appellate panel returned the case to U.S. District
Judge John Holschuh in Columbus to determine whether that court
is an inconvenient forum for the Venezuelan government and
whether the case should be litigated in the South American
nation.  Attorney Jay Kelly Wright of Washington’s Arnold & Porter,
argued the case for Venezuela. He didn’t immediately reply to
after-hours voice-email and e-mail messages seeking comment.  The case is DFRP LLC v. The Republica Bolivariana de
Venezuela, 09-3424 and 09-3725, in the U.S. 6th Circuit Court of
Appeals.  Venezuelan Banker Presses Graft Case Against Chavez Allies  Venezuelan banker Eligio Cedeno, whose U.S. lawsuit claims
seven of his country’s top officials engaged in extortion and
money laundering, asked a federal appeals court to reverse the
judge who dismissed his case.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan ruled Aug. 25
that Cedeno’s allegations against senior members of President
Hugo Chavez’s government don’t come under the jurisdiction of
U.S. courts. Cedeno’s racketeering suit claims he was framed as
a conspirator in a money-laundering scheme that pressured him
into selling his banks to Chavez allies.  “The racketeering law does extend to our case,” Jerome
Marcus, one of Cedeno’s lawyers, said in a telephone interview
from Jenkintown, Pennsylvania. “It was a money laundering
scheme designed to obtain American dollars out of American bank
accounts and to distribute them through an American company
using its U.S.-based account.”  Cedeno filed his appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals in
New York Sept. 22.  Michael Diaz Jr., lead counsel for Ruben Idler, one of the
defendants, said Cedeno is using the case to avoid extradition
to Venezuela.  “It was a correct ruling on the law and a significant
victory for the Venezuelan authorities who have asked the U.S.
for the extradition of Cedeno,” he said in a statement after
Rakoff’s decision.  The case is Cedeno v. Intech Group Inc., 09-cv-09716, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  AstraZeneca Appeals EU Ruling Over Abuse of Patent Position  AstraZeneca Plc  appealed to the European Union’s highest
court over a decision that it flouted antitrust rules to keep
generic competitors off the market.  AstraZeneca is seeking to overturn a lower EU court’s
ruling that said it “abused its dominant position” by
hindering the marketing of generic copies of its Prilosec
heartburn medicine.  The U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker is challenging the
decision “on several grounds,” including whether there was an
abuse of its market power, the London-based company said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  AstraZeneca, its bigger U.K. rival  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  and
 Sanofi-Aventis SA  are among companies the Brussels-based
European Commission has queried as part of an antitrust probe
into tactics to keep copies of their medicines off the market.  The case is C-457/10 P Pending Case, AstraZeneca v
Commission.  For more, click here.  BP Ex-Commodities Head Quek Says Firm Had ‘Atmosphere of Fear’  BP Plc’s  former head of commodities trading Quek Chin
Thean, who is accused by the oil company of misusing
confidential information and helping a rival, told a Singapore
court he backed up the data because there was an “atmosphere of
fear” at the firm.  BP had been “conducting oppressive and disproportionate
investigative proceedings against its employees and ex-
employees,” Quek, 41, said in papers filed in the Singapore
High Court Sept. 22. “It was this general atmosphere of fear in
the BP Group that prompted me to back up my working e-mails and
documents as a precaution.”  The London-based oil company sued Quek and five other
former employees, claiming they wrongfully downloaded and
misused confidential information, including oil-trading “cheat
sheets.” BP accused the group of helping rival Shenzhen
Brightoil Group set up a competing business in Singapore. Quek
was fired on July 9.  Quek, Clarence Chang, John Foo and Laura Kuan countersued
BP last month for wrongful dismissal and claimed the company
wrongfully withheld money owed to them. The group, including
former head of operations Paul John Bradshaw and legal manager
Simon Cheong, has denied misusing any of BP’s trade secrets.  Lau Lu Ching, a Singapore-based BP spokeswoman, declined to
comment when telephoned by Bloomberg News.  The case is BP Singapore Pte v. Quek Chin Thean & Ors
S482/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  KFC Executive Denies He Is Favoring Grilled Products  The president of  Yum! Brands Inc. ’s Kentucky Fried Chicken
unit told a judge he’s being wrongly accused of favoring grilled
products over crispy fare, and said franchisees are trying to
dominate advertising choices.  Roger Eaton, who earlier supervised restaurant operations
in the South Pacific, said he took over the U.S. job in 2008,
and is trying to facilitate improvements for the chain.  Grilled chicken “is a very important part of KFC’s
future” but crispy fried chicken “is the most popular” and
the cornerstone of the company’s business, Eaton told Delaware
Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. in the fourth day of a non-
jury trial in Wilmington.  The KFC National Council and Advertising Cooperative Inc.,
the designer of marketing programs for the world’s most-popular
chicken restaurant chain, sued KFC in January contending that
Eaton is slighting the original product and the ads he favors
are “lopsided towards grilled chicken.”  The council has 17 board members, 13 from franchisees.
Strine is being asked to decide whether KFC “has the sole
authority” to direct advertising, and whether the council can
“modify or suggest changes” to KFC proposals, according to
court papers.  The case “is not about grilled versus fried,” it’s about
control, and if the council prevailed, it would be
“disastrous” for the brand, Eaton said.  He said the council “is trying to take control of
marketing and advertising,” which would affect KFC’s
accountability to franchisees, suppliers, consumers and Yum
shareholders.  The case is KFC National Council v. KFC Corp., CA5191,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Corporate Secret, Trademark Lawsuits Soared in U.K. Last Year  Lawsuits to shield corporate secrets more than  quadrupled 
in London last year and trademark cases rose 20 percent as more
companies sought to protect intellectual property during the
economic slowdown.  Disputes over trade secrets at the High Court increased
from 23 two years ago to 95 last year, while intellectual-
property cases overall rose 37 percent, the U.K.  Ministry of
Justice  said yesterday. Patent cases rose 17 percent.  Intellectual-property lawsuits doubled during the past five
years to account for 16 percent of all cases, the ministry
report said. Last year, cases included Diageo Plc’s lawsuit
against grocer  J Sainsbury Plc  over the Pimm’s drink label and
Pernod Ricard SA’s case against Absolute Radio to protect the
Absolut vodka trademark.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here. For the
latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  U.K. Law Firm Revenue Increases ‘Modest’ 5%, Deloitte Says  Britain’s 100 biggest law firms increased their quarterly
revenue by an average of 5 percent amid continued
“uncertainty” about the economy, according to a survey.  The “modest” boost was due to higher rates and more
billable hours over the three-month period that ended July 31,
compared with a year earlier, accounting firm Deloitte LLP said
in a statement. The U.K.’s 10 biggest firms, including the top-
five “Magic Circle” firms led by  Clifford Chance LLP , had
smaller average increases of 3.7 percent, Deloitte said.  Clifford Chance regained its spot as the highest-grossing  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 