-- SIPC Tells Congress $57.2 Billion Madoff Victims Claims Exceed Its Funds
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-09-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/madoff-victim-claims-exceed-available-sipc-funds-letter-shows.html
The Securities Investor Protection
Corp. said in a letter to a congressional subcommittee that
claims by victims of  Bernard Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme far exceed
the funds available to the agency to reimburse them.  As of Aug. 1, the SIPC had a total fund of $1.2 billion and
access to as much as an additional $2.5 billion in loans from
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, SIPC President
 Stephen Harbeck  said in a Sept. 7 letter to the House
Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance and Government
Sponsored Enterprises.  Claims by Madoff victims total $57.2 billion based on false
account statements issued by Madoff’s firm in November 2008, the
month before his arrest, according to the SIPC letter. Victims
lost $17.3 billion when calculated as the difference between
money invested and money withdrawn from Madoff’s firm.  The SIPC, which is required to pay victims a maximum of
$500,000 for most claims, has allocated $888 million to pay
claims based on lost principal. If forced to pay based on the
account statements, the SIPC would have to pay an additional
$1.1 billion, it said in the letter.  The letter, which was produced in connection with a
subcommittee hearing on Sept. 23, responds to questions
contained in an Aug. 20 letter by the Democratic chairman and
ranking Republican on the subcommittee.  According to the letter, Madoff made 90,000 payouts to
investors, totaling $18.5 billion, that were in excess of the
money they invested.  Irving Picard , a trustee appointed to
oversee the bankruptcy of Madoff’s firm, has filed 19 claims in
U.S. bankruptcy court seeking to recover $15 billion from
clients who got overpayments, according to the SIPC letter.  Madoff Victims  Madoff victims have tried, unsuccessfully so far, to force
the SIPC to pay based on their fictitious account balances. The
SIPC, supported by trustee Picard and U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Burton Lifland  in Manhattan, has said it’s required only to pay
based on cash invested minus withdrawals.  Representatives  Paul Kanjorski  and  Scott Garrett , a
Pennsylvania Democrat and New Jersey Republican, respectively,
have pushed the SIPC to consider other methods of repaying
investor claims. The two, who serve as the top members of the
House Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets, held a
hearing Sept. 23 on the “limitations of the Securities Investor
Protection Act” that established SIPC.  “While SIPC’s actions may follow the letter of the law,
many would argue that SIPC has ignored the spirit of the law,”
Kanjroski said at the Washington hearing. He added that
lawmakers need to “consider the best way to change the tone at
SIPC and refocus this body on maintaining confidence in the
financial system and promoting investor protection.”  Litwin Lawsuit  Yesterday, the Litwin Foundation, a Madoff investor, sued
the SEC for “negligence” in failing to uncover the Ponzi
scheme. The New Hyde Park, New York-based foundation seeks to
recover at least $19 million and other unspecified damages
against the agency for failing to prevent losses at Madoff’s
investment firm.  The government’s “sovereign immunity” from lawsuits
should be waived under a law that allows cases to be brought
against the U.S. if its workers were negligent, the foundation
said in the complaint. The organization was established in 1989
and contributes to nonprofits that include  Lincoln Center for
the Performing Arts  and the  Brooklyn Botanical Garden .  The SEC “had countless opportunities to stop the Ponzi
scheme Madoff operated over 16 years and botched all of them,”
the foundation said in the complaint.  SEC Investigations  The plaintiffs said that during a period of 16 years, the
SEC investigated Madoff on multiple occasions and failed to
expose the fraud.  John Heine , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment on
the lawsuit.  Several pieces of legislation have been introduced in the
U.S. Congress aimed at relieving losses to Madoff’s investors.
Representative  Bill Pascrell , a New Jersey Democrat, has
introduced a bill that would allow Madoff investors to recoup
some of the losses through the U.S. tax system. Senator  Charles E. Schumer , a New York Democrat, has introduced similar
legislation in the Senate.  “It would seem to me that one major and fundamental reform
would be for them, through the actions of the trustee that has
been appointed, to see themselves as an advocate rather than an
adversary against innocent defrauded investors,” said Garrett,
who is co-sponsoring the Pascrell bill. Investors, Garrett
added, need to “feel as though they are being assisted by the
SIPC process, rather than hunted down and accused of some kind
of wrongdoing.”  Madoff Liquidation  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year prison term after
pleading guilty last year to masterminding the largest Ponzi
scheme in history. The liquidation of New York-based Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC is the biggest such case
undertaken by SIPC, according to court records.  The bankruptcy case is: Securities Investor Protection
Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The Litwin case is The Litwin Foundation v. United
States of America, 10-CV-7367, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of New Yorkt ;
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 