-- Aecom, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Nike, Oracle: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-09-24T12:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/aecom-bristol-myers-squibb-kb-home-nike-oracle-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.       Advanced Micro Devices Inc.  (AMD US) The main competitor to
Intel Corp. in computer processors said third-quarter sales
would be less than it had predicted, citing weaker demand for
notebook computers in Europe and North America.  Aecom Technology Corp.  (ACM US): The Los Angeles,
California-based architectural and engineering company announced
it will acquire Canada-based RSW Inc., an international
engineering firm.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  (BMY US): The drugmaker will cut 3
percent of its workforce during the next six months, spokeswoman
Tracy Furey said. The New York-based company had 28,000
employees before the cuts, according to Furey.       Comtech Telecommunications Corp.  (CMTL US): The provider of
mobile-data communications equipment initiated a quarterly
dividend of 25 cents a share and said it plans to buy back as
much as $100 million of stock.  Emerson Electric Co.  (EMR US): The maker of valves and
InSinkErator-brand garbage disposals reported August underlying
orders were up 15 percent, with the largest upticks seen in
process management, network power and industrial automation.       Finish Line Inc.  (FINL US): The athletic apparel retailer
reported second-quarter sales of $301.1 million, less than the
analysts’ average estimate of $317.4 million.       KB Home  (KBH US): The U.S. homebuilder said it lost two
cents a share excluding items in the third quarter. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated a loss of 17 cents.  Kimberly-Clark Corp.  (KMB US): The maker of Kleenex tissues
and Huggies diapers was cut to “neutral” from “outperform”
at Credit Suisse Group AG.       Nike Inc.  (NKE US): The world’s largest maker of athletic
shoes reported first-quarter profit of $1.14 a share. Analysts
predicted a profit of $1 a share.       Oracle Corp.  (ORCL US): The world’s second-largest software
maker may buy a chipmaker, Chief Executive Officer Larry Ellison
said at the company’s annual meeting.  Shaw Group Inc.  (SHAW US): The Baton Rouge, Louisiana-based
builder of power plants was cut to “underweight” from
“neutral” by JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Scott Levine.  Tibco Software Inc.  (TIBX US): The software company
reported third-quarter adjusted earnings of 17 cents a share,
beating the average analysts’ estimate of 15 cents a share.  Unum Group  (UNM US): The largest U.S. long-term disability
insurer was cut to a “market perform” from “outperform” by
Wells Fargo & Co. analyst Sean Dargan.       Vical Inc.  (VICL US): The drugmaker said it plans to sell
an undisclosed amount of shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  at   ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 