-- Ahmadinejad Says Iran Ready to Set Date for Talks on Its Nuclear Program
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-09-24T21:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/ahmadinejad-says-iran-ready-to-set-date-for-talks-on-its-nuclear-program.html
Iran is ready to set a date for
talks with a group of six world powers to discuss the Islamic
nation’s nuclear program, Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
told reporters in New York.  “Possibly in October; we are prepared to talk,”
Ahmadinejad said at a news conference today at the Warwick
Hotel. “The door is open for talks and negotiations” in a
“framework of justice and respect.”  The Iranian leader said a date could be set if European
Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  contacts Iran.  Ahmadinejad, 53, has faced growing pressure since arriving
in New York six days ago to curb his nation’s nuclear program.
The U.S., Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia were united
this week in telling Iran to comply with UN Security Council
demands or remain under trade and financial sanctions.  The council wants Iran to cease uranium enrichment and
answer the Vienna-based  International Atomic Energy Agency ’s
questions about whether the effort is designed to achieve a
weapons capability. Iran, home to the world’s No. 2 oil
reserves, is under UN sanctions because it refuses to curtail
uranium enrichment and the development of ballistic missiles
that might carry a weapon.  “We cannot tolerate violations” of nuclear non-
proliferation accords, Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
said Sept. 22 on the “ Charlie Rose ” show on PBS.  Venue for Negotiations  Iran hasn’t officially responded to an offer to meet with
representatives of the U.S. and other permanent Security Council
members plus Germany, which is the “appropriate venue” for
talks,  Mike Hammer , spokesman for President  Barack Obama ’s
National Security Council, said.  “The international community is interested in diplomacy
that yields concrete Iranian steps to meet their obligations and
demonstrate the peaceful intent of their nuclear program,”
Hammer said. “But we aren’t interested in diplomacy for
diplomacy’s sake.”  Ahmadinejad may not be in position to negotiate a
settlement of the nuclear issue because of his battles with
political opponents in Iran, according to  Fariborz Ghadar , a
senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington.  Factions in Tehran  “There are difficulties he is having back in Tehran with
different factions defying him,” Ghadar said in an interview.
These elements are warning Ahmadinejad, “cozy too much with the
U.S., and we can cause problems. He has got to play gently
across this maze he has found himself in.”  Ahmadinejad, in his news conference, cast doubt on the
likely success of international talks, should they resume. He
recalled that the UN  Security Council  adopted more stringent
sanctions against Iran on June 9, in the midst of its talks with
Brazil and Turkey over an exchange of enriched uranium that
might defuse tensions.  “The end has come for this kind of behavior, this
imperialistic behavior,” Ahmadinejad said. “They say they want
to use a carrot-and-stick policy. They admit they want to use a
stick on us. It is an insult to a nation to use that term.”  Ahmadinejad said the sanctions adopted by the Security
Council, and followed by penalties imposed by the U.S. and
European Union, haven’t damaged Iran’s economy.  “These sanctions have no impact on the Iranian people.
Their methods have failed,” Ahmadinejad said. “Our economy is
indigenously based. In the past four years we have advanced
several times faster than we did before” sanctions were
imposed, he said.  Tighter Sanctions  Ahmadinejad has been surprised by the strength of the
latest sanctions, according to  Ilan Berman , vice president of
the Washington-based American Foreign Policy Council.  “The experience of Iran, dealing from history, was that
the UN Security Council passes a resolution, the global
community yawns, and it is essentially business as usual,”
Berman said in an interview. “But since June there has been a
very significant constriction of trade with Iran from countries
you would not expect, such as Turkey and South Korea.”  South Korea said on Sept. 8 it would ban any new
investments for Iranian oil, gas and construction projects.
Turkey’s gasoline sales to Iran in July plunged to 47.9 million
liters from 187.4 million liters a month earlier after U.S.
sanctions against Iran took effect, according to Turkey’s
statistics office.  Serious Threat  Former Iranian President  Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani  said
Sept. 14 that Iran is facing its harshest ever sanctions and
Iran’s officials should take the threat seriously, according to
the Iranian Labor News Agency.  Asked about criticism of his speech yesterday to the UN
General Assembly, in which he suggested the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks might have been carried out to benefit the
U.S. economy and the “Zionist regime,” Ahmadinejed said he was
only listing existing theories, not making a judgment on their
likelihood.  “Did I say anything wrong?” he asked.  The conviction that al-Qaeda committed the Sept. 11 attacks
must be questioned because it became the U.S. rationale for
invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq that were “wrong to begin
with,” Ahmadinejad said.  Dozens of nations joined the U.S. in walking out of
Ahmadinejad’s speech in protest. Obama called the remarks
“offensive” and “hateful” in an interview today with BBC
Persian.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  