-- Ahmadinejad Stature Fades as Pressure Grows on Iran Atomic Work
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/ahmadinejad-stature-fades-at-un-as-pressure-grows-on-iran-nuclear-program.html
When Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  first came to the United Nations General Assembly
three years ago, he declared the question of Iran’s nuclear
program “closed.”  Ahmadinejad returned to the UN this week with a different
message: that he was open to talks with the U.S. and other
Western powers about the nuclear issue. He was greeted by a
decree signed by Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  on Sept. 22
banning weapons sales to Iran, including missile defense
systems, in compliance with UN sanctions.  “It was a masterful move and a kick in the teeth of
Ahmadinejad,”  Suzanne Maloney , a former U.S. State Department
policy planner and now a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution  in Washington, said in an interview. “His stature
certainly has been diminished.”  The contrast between 2007 and this year reflects how
Ahmadinejad’s changed status at home and abroad has left him in
a weakened position at the UN to counter the growing pressure to
scale back his nation’s nuclear program. The U.S. and its allies
suspect the program is aimed at developing atomic weapons, while
the Iranians say it is purely for electricity generation.  Political turmoil in Tehran has eroded Ahmadinejad’s
standing in foreign capitals and cast doubt on his ability to
negotiate an end to the nuclear dispute, says  Cliff Kupchan , an
analyst at New York-based risk consultant Eurasia Group.  Political Fights  “Ahmadinejad has been out front in calling for talks with
the U.S., but in the context of ongoing factional fighting, the
pragmatic conservatives are very unlikely to let him get credit
for improving relations with the U.S.,”, Kupchan said in an e-
mail. “Any apparent agreement would likely get torpedoed by
domestic rancor.”  The U.S., Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia were
united this week in telling Ahmadinejad to comply with UN
 Security Council  demands or remain under trade and financial
sanctions. The council wants Iran to cease uranium enrichment
and answer the Vienna-based  International Atomic Energy Agency ’s
questions about whether the effort is designed to achieve a
weapons capability.  Iran, home to the world’s No. 2 oil reserves, is under UN
sanctions because it refuses to curtail uranium enrichment and
the development of ballistic missiles that might carry a weapon.  “We cannot tolerate violations” of nuclear non-
proliferation accords, Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
said Sept. 22 on the “ Charlie Rose ” show on PBS.  Sanctions Mount  Ahmadinejad, 53, has been surprised by the strength of the
latest Security Council sanctions, adopted June 9, and ensuing
penalties imposed by the U.S. and European Union, according to
 Ilan Berman , vice president of the Washington-based American
Foreign Policy Council.  “The experience of Iran, dealing from history, was that
the UN Security Council passes a resolution, the global
community yawns, and it is essentially business as usual,”
Berman said in an interview. “But since June there has been a
very significant constriction of trade with Iran from countries
you would not expect, such as Turkey and South Korea.”  South Korea said on Sept. 8 it would ban any new
investments for Iranian oil, gas and construction projects.
Turkey’s gasoline sales to Iran in July plunged to 47.9 million
liters from 187.4 million liters a month earlier after U.S.
sanctions against Iran took effect, according to Turkey’s
statistics office.  Turkish View  Turkish President  Abdullah Gul , who met with Ahmadinejad in
New York, said in a Sept. 22 interview with Charlie Rose that
sanctions must be respected. “We are not undermining American
policies,” he said.  Former Iranian President  Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani  said
Sept. 14 that Iran is facing its harshest ever sanctions and
Iran’s officials should take the threat seriously, according to
the Iranian Labor News Agency.  Meanwhile, Ahmadinejad has drawn criticism for his public
statements on Israel. Cuba’s  Fidel Castro  chided Ahmadinejad
earlier this month for denying the Holocaust and said his anti-
Semitism doesn’t help the cause for peace.  At the UN yesterday, envoys representing the U.S. and
dozens of other countries walked out of the General Assembly
when Ahmadinejad suggested the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks were
carried out to benefit the U.S. economy and the “Zionist
regime.” U.S. spokesman  Mark Kornblau  described the remarks as
“abhorrent and delusional.”  Supreme Leader  At home, Ahmadinejad is caught in political pressures
stemming from allegations of fraud in his re-election last year
and power-sharing disputes with Islamic clerics. Ahmadinejad’s
bid to take control of foreign policy is opposed by Supreme
Leader Ayatollah  Ali Khamenei , according to  Mohamad Bazzi  of the
 Council on Foreign Relations  in New York.  “Under Iran’s theocratic system, the supreme leader holds
the true levers of power, especially on political and national
security matters,” Bazzi said in an interview. “When Khamenei
has felt Ahmadinejad and his allies went too far, he has reined
him in.”  A U.S. official said Sept. 22 that while the Obama
administration is committed to diplomacy to resolve the nuclear
dispute, it isn’t clear whether Iran is, due to varying
statements from its leadership.  The ambiguity was reflected in President  Barack Obama ’s
speech to the General Assembly yesterday.  Obama said while he is willing to bargain with Iran, “the
Iranian government must demonstrate a clear and credible
commitment, and confirm to the world the peaceful intent of its
nuclear program.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at the United Nations at   fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  