-- Ally Expands Foreclosure Review Process to All Fifty States
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-12T19:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/ally-issues-robust-policy-adds-staff-for-foreclosure-process.html
Ally Financial Inc. , whose GMAC
Mortgage unit halted evictions in 23 states last month, hired
legal and accounting firms to do independent reviews of
foreclosures across the entire U.S.  GMAC hasn’t found evidence of any improper foreclosures so
far, Detroit-based Ally said today in a statement. Any
foreclosure sales will get an additional review by a
“specialized team” to ensure the rules have been followed, the
company said. Ally didn’t name the firms it hired.  “We are taking these additional steps to restore
confidence in the process, which is critical for the stability
of the home and mortgage industry,” the statement said.  Attorneys general, consumer groups and some lawmakers have
pressed mortgage firms to follow  Bank of America Corp. , the
biggest U.S. lender, which last week suspended foreclosures in
all 50 states to check whether faulty documents were used to
confiscate homes. Units of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and PNC Financial Services Group Inc. have said
they’re reviewing some foreclosures.  Ally is owned 56 percent by the U.S. government after
bailouts of more than $17 billion. While the U.S. has created
programs designed to keep people from losing homes, President
 Barack Obama  also is rejecting a nationwide freeze on
foreclosures because of potential “unintended consequences,”
White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  said today. The remarks
reinforce comments by White House senior adviser  David Axelrod ,
who said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program Oct. 10 that a
moratorium may damage the housing market.  GMAC Mortgage notified agents and brokers on Sept. 17 that
it had suspended evictions in 23 states where foreclosures
involve judicial review and said it found a “technical”
deficiency in its foreclosure process allowing employees to sign
documents without a notary present or with information they
didn’t personally know was true.  GMAC was sanctioned in 2006 for similar practices, and
issued a new policy at the time, court records show. Ally said
today it has been reviewing cases in the original 23 states for
two months. “ As each of those files is reviewed, and
remediated when needed, the foreclosure process resumes,” the
statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 