-- Ally Said to Tell Freddie Mac of Faulty Foreclosures Weeks Ago
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/ally-said-to-tell-freddie-mac-of-faulty-foreclosures-weeks-ago.html
Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC Mortgage
unit told  Freddie Mac  that foreclosures by the auto and home
lender might have been faulty weeks before halting its own
evictions, according to two people briefed on the matter.  Ally informed Freddie Mac on Aug. 25 that affidavits for
court  proceedings  might not be valid, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter. By Sept. 1, Freddie Mac had
notified its network of lawyers and stopped related foreclosures
and evictions, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter hasn’t been formally disclosed. GMAC told
agents to halt evictions in 23 states on Sept. 17.  Fannie Mae , the largest government-backed mortgage firm,
said it notified lawyers of flaws in GMAC documentation after it
was alerted. Fannie Mae spokesman  Brian Faith  declined to say
when GMAC contacted the company, and  Gina Proia , the spokeswoman
for Detroit-based Ally, said she couldn’t comment.  “We are obviously dismayed by reports of document
problems,” Freddie Mac spokesman  Brad German  said in an
interview. “The practices described in these reports are
clearly not in compliance with Freddie Mac guidelines and
servicer directives.” German wouldn’t say how many of the
McLean, Virginia-based firm’s  holdings  were affected by the
freeze.  Servicers ‘Accountable’  Fannie Mae said in a statement that its servicers must
adhere to all legal requirements. “It is their responsibility
to put processes in place that ensure they are fulfilling this
requirement, and they are accountable for rectifying any issues
that may arise in this regard.”  Ally faces allegations that its GMAC unit evicted
homeowners without verifying that borrowers actually  defaulted 
or whether the firm had legal standing to seize the homes. Ally,
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are majority-owned by the U.S.
government, which has been pressing lenders to reduce
foreclosures as evictions hit record levels.  Ally notified agents and brokers last week that it had
suspended evictions. This week, Ally said it found a
“technical” deficiency in its foreclosure process allowing
employees to sign documents without a notary present or with
information they didn’t personally know was true.  Ally said earlier this week it recently became aware that
its process for ensuring foreclosures were done properly had
broken down, and that it has since been corrected. The company
said that aside from signing the affidavits without knowledge or
a notary, the details of the files were “factually accurate.”  Freddie Mac had almost $118 billion worth of non-performing
single-family loans at the end of June. The company completed
almost 153,600 foreclosures in the first half of this year and
had more than 62,000 foreclosed homes in its inventory,
according to a  filing  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own or guarantee more than half
of the $11 trillion U.S. home mortgage market. The companies are
almost 80 percent owned by the government, which took them over
in September 2008 after declining home prices pushed them to the
brink of collapse. The U.S. holds a 56.3 percent stake in Ally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 