-- Amgen, J&J Recall Epogen, Procrit Tainted by Glass
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-09-24T20:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/amgen-j-j-recall-epogen-procrit-tainted-by-glass-flaking-from-vials.html
Amgen Inc.  and  Johnson & Johnson 
recalled certain lots of the anemia drugs Epogen and Procrit
that may be contaminated with glass shards that flake off vials
into the medicines.  The “extremely thin glass flakes” are “barely visible”
and aren’t likely to harm patients, Amgen spokeswoman  Emma Hurley  said in a telephone interview. The companies haven’t
received any complaints of side effects and don’t anticipate
that patients will lose access to the drugs, she said. Patients
should contact their doctors about any drug-related problems,
Amgen said.  Epogen is Amgen’s fourth-best-selling product, with $2.57
billion in sales last year for the Thousand-Oaks, California-
based company. Procrit brought in $2.25 billion for J&J, which
licenses the drug from manufacturer Amgen. The medicines are
used to stimulate red blood cells in patients with anemia caused
by HIV treatment, chronic renal failure or chemotherapy.  “We’re taking this broad voluntary action with patients in
mind,” Lisa Vaga, a spokeswoman for J&J, said in a telephone
interview. “We will do everything we can to ensure that our
customers and patients continue to have access to Procrit.”  The recall applies to 324,000 Procrit vials, Vaga said. Two
hundred lots of Amgen’s Epogen were recalled, Hurley said.  The recalled lots were old and the glass flakes, known as
lamellae, developed as a result of long-term interaction between
glass storage vials and the drug, Hurley said. Amgen is reducing
the shelf life of the drugs from 36 months to 12 to 15 months,
Hurley said.  Amgen’s shares rose 60 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $56.32 at
4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.
J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, increased 33 cents, or
less than a percent, to $62.14 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 