-- Anglo American Drops in London After UBS Reduces Recommendation on Stock
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-09-24T16:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/anglo-american-shares-slide-most-in-a-month-after-ubs-cuts-recommendation.html
Anglo American Plc  declined in
London trading after UBS AG reduced its rating on the stock,
citing political risk in South Africa and “uncertainty” at the
company’s Brazilian Minas Rio project.  Anglo  fell 0.6 percent to 2,535 pence at the 4:35 p.m.
close of trade, valuing the London-based company at 33.5 billion
pounds ($52.9 billion). The shares slumped as much as 3.3
percent earlier today after UBS  cut the stock  to “neutral”
from “buy.”  The potential for higher South African risk isn’t reflected
in the share price,  Olivia Ker , a London-based analyst at UBS,
said today in a note to clients. Operating in the country, which
UBS estimates will account for more than half Anglo’s operating
profit this year, is becoming “increasingly more challenging,”
Ker said, citing license revocations, irregular applications of
mining laws and “more onerous mining conditions.”  In Brazil, Anglo may postpone the first production from its
Minas Rio mining project by 12 months until the first half of
2014, UBS said. Anglo said in July that difficulties in getting
permits and project-design changes may raise the cost of the
venture by about a fifth.  Such a delay could push up costs at Port Acu in Rio de
Janeiro state, a development 49 percent-owned by Anglo that’s
due to export iron ore from Minas Rio. UBS estimates the
additional capital requirement at about $500 million.  “Anglo has indicated that they will not look to increase
their ownership in the port, instead increase their upfront
capital commitment to secure a lower port tariff fee,” UBS
said. Anglo’s partner in the terminal is LLX Logistica SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  