-- Rand Strength Confounds South Africa's ANC; Undecided on Measure to Weaken
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-09-24T10:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/manuel-says-anc-hasn-t-decided-on-measures-to-curb-strength-of-the-rand.html
South Africa’s ruling  African
National Congress  failed to agree on a method to weaken the
rand, the strength of which is eroding the competitiveness of
the nation’s exports.  “This currency really is like a mischievous child,”
 Trevor Manuel , a member of the ANC’s commission and the head of
the country’s National Planning Commission, told reporters in
the eastern port city of Durban today at the conclusion the
five-day gathering. “The more you shout at it and threaten to
nationalize, the stronger it gets. I don’t think it responds to
being shouted at.”  The rand has surged more than 33 percent against the dollar
since the beginning of last year. The Congress of South African
Trade Unions and manufacturers including  ArcelorMittal South
Africa Ltd.  are lobbying for more aggressive action to weaken
the rand, which they blame for stalling an economy recovery.
Growth slowed to an annualized 3.2 percent in the second
quarter, from 4.6 percent in the first three months of the year.
Rising job losses pushed the  unemployment rate  to 25.3 percent
in the second quarter, the highest among 62 countries tracked by
Bloomberg.  “It would be a bit of a stretch to try and get a flavorful
commission to deal with the nuances and details of policy and
come up with precise technical recommendations on issues such as
whether there should be a tax on capital flows and what such a
tax should be and what you do about the strong rand,” Manuel
said.  On Sept. 21, the International Monetary Fund said the rand
was overvalued by between 5 percent and 15 percent. While
foreign-exchange controls should be eased further to help weaken
the currency, a tax on portfolio inflows may not be effective,
the Washington-based lender said.  The rand weakened for a second day versus the dollar,
depreciating as much as 0.9 percent to 7.1006 before trading 0.2
percent down at 7.0505 by 11:30 a.m. in Johannesburg from the
previous close of 7.0361.  Pegging the value of the rand would be to “commit national
suicide,” said Manuel, who served for 13 years as South
Africa’s finance minister before being appointed to his current
position in May last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 