-- Malaysian Road Sukuk Shunned by Investors on Debt Revamps: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-09-24T06:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/manulife-shuns-malaysian-road-sukuks-on-debt-reorganizing-islamic-finance.html
Hong Leong Islamic Bank Bhd. and
Manulife Asset Management (Malaysia) Sdn. say they are avoiding
some toll-road Islamic debt in Malaysia as two highway operators
submitted debt restructuring plans this year.  Senai-Desaru Expressways Bhd., the builder of Malaysia’s
third-longest highway, plans to conclude talks on reorganizing
1.46 billion ringgit ($471 million) of debt by year end, Chief
Executive Officer Mustaza Salim said in an interview in Kuala
Lumpur today. Konsortium Lebuhraya Utara-Timur (KL) Sdn., which
operates a highway near the capital, is close to an agreement
with creditors to replace 780 million ringgit of sukuk maturing
between 2010 and 2018 with new debt, according to a Sept. 3
report from Malaysian Rating Corp.  Traffic on some roads isn’t sufficient to generate enough
revenue, said  Jamil Baharuddin , the head of bond trading at
Kuala Lumpur-based Hong Leong Islamic, a unit of Malaysia’s
sixth-largest lender. Estimates for cash flows on routes in
less-developed areas were too optimistic, according to Manulife
Asset, a unit of Canada’s biggest insurer.  “Investors we have been talking to are shying away,”
Jamil said in an interview from Kuala Lumpur yesterday. “We are
more cautious toward toll-road operators depending on exactly
which highways because some are not getting enough volumes.”  Sukuk sales in Malaysia dropped 30 percent this year as
companies cut infrastructure spending following a recession in
2009. Issuance in the world’s biggest market for Islamic debt
slumped to 18.2 billion ringgit ($5.9 billion) so far this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Infrequent Trades  Sukuk due December 2011 sold by Senai-Desaru, which
announced its restructuring in April, yielded 5.68 percent when
they were last traded in May 2008, according to prices from CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd. The debt was priced to yield 3.5 percent
when it was issued in 2005.  The yield on the 6.95 percent Shariah-compliant notes due
October 2012 sold by Konsortium was 6.42 percent on May 18, when
they were last transacted, according to CIMB, which didn’t
provide previous price data. There’s been no trade since the
rating company’s report. The indicative yield on Malaysian five-
year government Islamic bonds fell 24 basis points to 3.39
percent this quarter, an  index  by the central bank shows.  Sales Drop  Sales of sukuk, or debt that pays asset returns to comply
with Shariah law’s ban on interest, fell 24 percent to $10.7
billion so far this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The spread between the average yield for Islamic bonds and
the London interbank offered rate widened five basis points to
381 yesterday, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar
Sukuk Index . The yield difference has narrowed 86 basis points
this year. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 10.9 percent this year,
the HSBC/NASDAQ index showed, while debt in developing markets
gained 13 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI 
Global Diversified Index.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent sovereign Islamic
note due June 2015 rose two basis points to 2.66 percent today,
according to prices from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Delays in toll-road projects are common,  Sandeep Bhattacharya , an analyst at Malaysian Rating, one of the
nation’s two ratings companies, said in an interview yesterday
from Kuala Lumpur.  ‘Not Committed’  “If you’re not committed to investing long term, forget
about investing in infrastructure,” Bhattacharya said. Toll-
road companies “often miss their initial forecasts but often
catch up in the long run,” he said.  Manulife Asset didn’t buy the bonds sold by Senai-Desaru
and Konsortium,  Ho Su Ann , who helps manage the equivalent of
$900 million at Manulife in Malaysia, said in telephone
interview in Kuala Lumpur yesterday.  “When we did our own assessment we thought that there were
better opportunities” elsewhere, said Ho, adding that some
toll-road debt is worth buying.  PLUS Expressways Bhd. , Malaysia’s state-controlled highway
operator, is “a very good example of a toll road that would
generate enough cash flow,” she said. The yield on PLUS’s 2
percent sukuk maturing in March 2015 fell 55 basis points to
4.35 percent this year, according to prices from Bursa Malaysia
Bhd. The notes returned 6.3 percent, the data show.  RAM Rating Services Bhd., the biggest of the nation’s
credit rating firms, cut Senai-Desaru’s rating to C1, or junk
grade, from AA3, in April, citing a “high likelihood of
default” when its first principal payment falls due in December
2011. In June, RAM raised the rating to BBB3, its lowest
investment grade, citing progress in debt restructuring.  Malaysian Rating revised its outlook on Konsortium to
‘stable’ from ‘developing’ on Sept. 3, saying the company will
probably conclude its debt refinancing plan by mid-October.
Officials at Konsortium didn’t respond to an e-mail and
telephone calls seeking comment in Kuala Lumpur today.  “Any new issuance would be under the microscope,”
Zakariya Othman, head of Islamic finance at RAM, said in an
interview in Kuala Lumpur on Sept. 22. “Investors can demand
higher yields.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 