-- U.S. Appeals Court Rejects Venezuelan Claim of Immunity in Bank Note Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-09-24T00:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/appeals-court-rejects-venezuelan-claim-of-immunity-to-suit-over-bank-notes.html
A U.S. appeals court rejected
arguments from the Venezuelan government that it’s immune from
having to litigate in an American court an Ohio company’s
lawsuit seeking to collect on $100 million in bank notes.  The Cincinnati-based three-judge panel voted 2-1 in favor
of upholding a trial judge’s ruling that federal courts can hear
the claim, while leaving open the question of where the case
should be litigated.  Columbus, Ohio-based Skye Ventures acquired the promissory
notes in reliance upon an October 2003 memo from the Venezuelan
finance ministry’s solicitor general, who said they were valid.
The South American nation subsequently said the notes, allegedly
issued by the state-owned Banco de Desarrrolo Agropecuario, also
known as Bandagro, were forgeries and refused to honor them,
according to the appeals court.  “This is a huge victory for us after five years of court
battles,” Skye Ventures President David J. Richards said in a
statement. Venezuela had sought dismissal of the case.  The court’s majority said that while Venezuela would
ordinarily be entitled to sovereign immunity, Skye had demanded
payment in the U.S. and that the nation’s refusal “caused a
direct effect in the United States,” voiding its immunity
claim.  Dissenting Opinion  Dissenting, U.S. Circuit Judge  Boyce F. Martin  said he
didn’t believe Venezuela had surrendered its immunity because it
had been Skye’s choice to demand payment at an American bank.  Skye Ventures, the trade name for DRFP LLC, acquired the
$100 million face-value notes from an intermediary in 2004, it
said in its statement. Bandagro is no longer operating. The
principal and accrued interest on the 11-year-old obligation may
be as much as $900 million, it said.  The appellate panel returned the case to U.S. District
Judge  John Holschuh  in Columbus to determine whether that court
is an inconvenient forum for the Venezuelan government and
whether the case should be litigated in the South American
nation.  Attorney Jay Kelly Wright of Washington’s Arnold & Porter,
argued the case for Venezuela. He did not immediately reply to
after-hours voicemail and e-mail messages seeking comment.  The case is DFRP LLC v. The Republica Bolivariana de
Venezuela, 09-3424 and 09-3725, in the U.S. 6th Circuit Court of
Appeals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 