-- IPhone Is Taiwan Suppliers' `Golden Goose': Chart of the Day
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-09-24T00:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/apple-iphone-is-taiwan-suppliers-golden-goose-chart-of-day.html
Taiwanese suppliers for iPhones and
iPad computers, among the best-performing stocks in Taipei this
year, are set to lead the market through at least 2011 as Apple
Inc. upgrades the gadgets, according to Yuanta Securities Co.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the Taiex Index and shares of
Wintek Corp., among the largest suppliers of touch displays for
iPhones and iPads, and camera-lens makers Genius Electronic
Optical Co. and Largan Precision Co. Also shown are Cupertino,
California-based Apple and Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.
Taiwan’s benchmark gauge of 718 securities has climbed 0.2 this
year, compared with gains of 211 percent for Genius, 100 percent
for Wintek, 51 percent for Largan and 37 percent for Apple.  “These companies are riding on the iPhone and iPad
story,” said Bonnie Chang, an analyst at Yuanta Securities in
Taipei. “The iPhone is like a golden goose to them. Wintek
wouldn’t have been able to turn around without iPhone. The
bigger the market share for iPhone, the more revenue the Taiwan
suppliers will get.”  The iPhone is Apple’s top-selling product since its 2007
debut, accounting for 34 percent of the company’s sales last
quarter. Apple may next year ship 36.5 million iPads, a touch-
screen tablet that debuted in April, according to a forecast by
iSuppli Corp., a technology-industry research firm.  Largan also produces Android phones for HTC Corp., the
world’s largest maker of mobile phones using Google Inc.
operating systems, giving sales a “further boost,” according
to Chang. Apple, Hewlett-Packard Co. and Dell Inc. are among
those that sub-contract to Taiwanese manufacturers, which offer
technical expertise and mass production at lower costs.  To be sure, a relationship with Apple isn’t a guarantee for
investors, as shown by shares of Hon Hai, the biggest contract
maker of Apple’s electronics. A spate of suicides at the
company’s Foxconn Technology Group unit in China has led the
company to raise wages and accelerate factory relocation plans.
Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  said in June the
suicides were “very troubling” and that his company was “all
over” Hon Hai to resolve the issue.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  