-- ARM Climbs 6.1% After Larry Ellison Says Oracle May Seek to Buy Chipmakers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-09-24T16:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/arm-rises-as-oracle-s-ellison-says-company-may-buy-a-chipmaker.html
ARM Holdings Plc , the U.K.
designer of chips that power Apple Inc.’s iPhone, rose the most
since Aug. 31 in London trading after  Oracle Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  said his company may buy a
chipmaker.  ARM climbed 6.1 percent to close at 414.6 pence at 4:30
p.m. The shares have climbed 134 percent this year, valuing the
company at about 5.48 billion pounds ($8.67 billion).  “We primarily think this is about Ellison,” said  Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies Intl Ltd. in London, adding
that the “Oracle speculation is unwarranted” and that the
company would more likely target an enterprise-focused
chipmaker such as  Advanced Micro Devices Inc.   Ellison, 66, said at Oracle’s annual meeting in San
Francisco yesterday that “you’re going to see us buying chip
companies” to add to its resources in computer hardware. In
January, the Redwood City, California-based company completed
the purchase of server manufacturer Sun Microsystems Inc.  “Although it’s by no means obvious that ARM is the
company he has got in mind, we would argue that a takeover of
ARM by Oracle would make sense,”  Didier Scemama , an analyst
with the Royal Bank of Scotland, wrote in a note to clients.  Alan Tringham, an ARM spokesman, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  Cambridge, England-based ARM’s links to Apple make it a
frequent subject of takeover speculation. The company has said
repeatedly that rivals can access its technology portfolio by
simply buying its products, rather than through an acquisition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 