-- Harrisburg Authority Takes Steps to Raise Cash for Missed Bond Payments
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/harrisburg-authority-takes-steps-to-raise-cash-for-missed-bond-payments.html
The  Harrisburg Authority , operator
of a trash incinerator whose debt has led the Pennsylvania
capital to weigh bankruptcy, voted to cancel an interest-rate
swap with  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and resell $31.5 million in debt.  The swap termination may bring the agency more than $2
million to make payments, said William Cluck, an authority board
member. The board met Sept. 22 for the first time since April,
when a political stalemate between City Council members and
Harrisburg Mayor  Linda Thompson  prevented appointment of the
three members needed to conduct business.  The Series D-1 bonds of 2003 that will be remarketed would
otherwise reset to a default interest rate of 10 percent after
Dec. 1, according to Cluck and bond documents. The authority
should pay between 5 percent and 6 percent when it reissues the
debt, said  Alan Schankel , managing director with Philadelphia-
based Janney Montgomery Scott, who monitors Harrisburg.  “I think it’s very positive they have a quorum now,” said
Schankel. “I don’t think the folks will be able to find a
silver bullet, but the fact they’re taking small steps is a
positive step.”  The authority’s failure to make payments on $288 million in
debt for more than a year has forced its guarantors -- the city
government, Dauphin County and bond insurer Hamilton, Bermuda-
based  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.  -- to make millions of
dollars of payments on its behalf.  Earlier this month Dauphin County and Assured Guaranty
filed suit seeking to force the appointment of a receiver to
manage the incinerator and to require a property-tax increase in
Harrisburg to cover the payments.  Bankruptcy an Option  The City Council, which has skipped $8 million of guarantee
payments this year, is scheduled to consider hiring an attorney
to advise on bankruptcy next week, according to Councilman  Brad Koplinski .  The authority’s action this week is “a good move,”
Dauphin County Commissioner Jeff Haste said in a statement e-
mailed by Amy Richards, a commission spokeswoman.  Dauphin County received notice in August that it will be
responsible for paying a $35 million short-term note that
matures Dec. 15. It is protesting that payment as part of its
lawsuit.  Harrisburg notified bondholders Aug. 30 it didn’t have the
funds to make $3.3 million in payments on its 1997 Series D and
1997 Series F general-obligation bonds that came due Sept. 15.
The payments were made after Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell 
accelerated $3.6 million in state aid.  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment in
an e-mail message yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  