-- Arsenal Profit Rises 73% to Record $96 Million on Highbury Apartment Sales
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-09-24T14:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/arsenal-has-record-profit-on-sale-of-highbury-properties-adebayor-toure.html
Arsenal  Holdings Plc’s fiscal-year
profit increased 73 percent to a record 61 million pounds ($96
million) as the English soccer club sold apartments on the site
of its former stadium.  Sales rose 21 percent to 379.9 million pounds in the year
ending May 31, the London team said today in a PRNewswire
statement. That’s the highest recorded by an English soccer
team, allowing Gunners to reduce their net debt by more than
half to 135.6 million pounds.  “The reason these results are important is not for their
own sake, it’s because we’re building a foundation, a platform
from which we can achieve on-field success,” Chief Executive
Officer  Ivan Gazidis  said in a video on the team’s  website .  With only about 60 of the 655 apartments built at the
club’s former Highbury Stadium left to market, sales will
probably decline next year. Yet, its balance sheet is in better
shape than those of league rivals.  Liverpool, which is still planning to build a new stadium,
had a loss of 14 million pounds because of interest payments
from the 2007 takeover by owners  George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks .
Manchester City and Chelsea, bankrolled by billionaire owners,
had combined losses of 137 million pounds, according to their
latest results.  Manchester United pays more than 40 million pounds in
interest annually on a 526 million pound bond needed to pay for
the Glazer family’s 2005 leveraged buyout.  Player Sales  Arsenal’s revenue was also boosted by the sales of  Emmanuel Adebayor  and Kolo Toure to Manchester City. The team made a
profit of 38.1 million pounds from player trades, and those
funds can be used for new signings, Arsenal said in its
statement.  While property sales surged 78 percent to 156.9 million
pounds, revenue from soccer operations dropped 1 percent to
222.9 million pounds. The club also benefited from a 5-million
pound tax rebate, about the same spent on French national team
defender  Sebastien Squillaci .  Gazidis said Arsenal’s ‘self-sustaining’ model is the right
path for the club because of new financial rules set by European
soccer’s governing body. From 2012, clubs have to keep
expenditure and costs within strict boundaries or face expulsion
from the UEFA Champions League or Europa League.  “We will be well placed when those principles come
through,” Gazidis said. “There’s still a lot that remains to
be seen but I think it’s certainly a healthy development in the
game.”  Arsenal, which has won England’s top league 13 times,
played at Highbury from 1913 to 2006 before moving to the
60,000-seat Emirates Stadium nearby. The new facility, which
helped almost double matchday sales, allows 20,000 more fans to
watch home games.  Trophy Hunt  The 13-time league champion hasn’t won a trophy since the
move, with the last triumph coming in the 2005 F.A. Cup. Manager
 Arsene Wenger  has resisted fans calls to spend money on
established players, preferring instead to use the club’s youth
program alongside young signings from other clubs.  “We do have a policy of building and not buying, and
that’s a difficult path to tread sometimes, but as a result of
that policy we’re seeing a tremendous number of good young
players progressing and developing into the finished article,”
Gazidis said.  The club announced its cash reserves have swelled by 30
percent to 127.6 million pounds. That money will be used on the
club’s infrastructure and be available for new players should
Wenger need it, Gazidis added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 