-- Asia Currencies Have Weekly Gains, Led by Indian Rupee, as Inflows Pick Up
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-09-24T08:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/asian-currencies-headed-for-weekly-gains-led-by-indian-rupee-on-inflows.html
Asian currencies  climbed this week,
led by India’s rupee, as global funds pumped more money into the
region’s developing nations to profit from the world’s fastest
economic growth.  Funds investing in Asia excluding Japan equities took in
the biggest amount in 15 months during the week ended Sept. 22,
while those focused on Indian shares recorded the highest net
inflows in almost three years, according to research firm EPFR
Global. The yuan climbed to its strongest level since 1993 as
U.S. President Barack Obama criticized China for using an
undervalued currency to gain an unfair trade advantage.  The rupee rose 1 percent this week to 45.39 per dollar as
of 2:21 p.m. in Mumbai, buoyed by the government’s decision
yesterday to increase the cap on foreign bond holdings. Taiwan’s
dollar advanced 0.4 percent to NT$31.62 as government reports
showed pickups in industrial output and export orders for August.  “The economic growth story has spurred fund inflows into
Asia,” said  Yuji Kameoka , a Tokyo-based senior economist at the
Daiwa Institute of Research. “That adds to the appreciation
pressure for Asian currencies.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, advanced
0.5 percent this week, a fourth straight weekly gain. Asia’s
developing economies will expand 9.2 percent in 2010, outpacing
growth of 2.6 percent in advanced countries, the International
Monetary Fund forecast in July.  Curbs Eased  The rupee climbed to a five-month high of 45.34 per dollar
after India said yesterday it would allow overseas investors to
double holdings of government bonds to $10 billion and raised
the limit on investment in corporate debt by a third to $20
billion. The move will help offset the current-account deficit,
said  Ashutosh Raina , head of foreign-exchange trading at HDFC
Bank Ltd. The deficit widened to $13 billion in the first
quarter, from $12.2 billion in the previous three months,
official data show.  “The government’s measures should help increase capital
inflows,” said Mumbai-based Raina.  China’s yuan appreciated 0.2 percent to 6.7079 per dollar
in the first two days of the week, before markets closed for a
holiday in Shanghai. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards
gained 0.9 percent to 6.5690 in Hong Kong, reflecting bets the
currency will strengthen 2.1 percent from the spot rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest gain
projected by the contracts since June 23.  The yuan is “valued lower than market conditions say it
should be” and that gives China “an advantage in trade,”
Obama said Sept. 21 before scheduled talks with Premier Wen
Jiabao in New York. He told Wen yesterday the U.S. wants to see
a more rapid and “significant” rise in the yuan’s value,
according to Jeff Bader, Obama’s director of Asian affairs.  Malaysia Upgrades  Malaysia’s ringgit, Asia’s best performing currency this
year, rose 0.3 percent this week to 3.0915 per dollar and
yesterday touched a 13-year high of 3.0873. FTSE Group, a global
index provider, yesterday upgraded Malaysia to “advanced
 emerging market ” status and Morgan Stanley on Sept. 20 raised
its assessment of the nation’s stocks to “overweight.”  “We see the FTSE upgrade as one of the key catalysts for
further appreciation of the ringgit,” said  Wai Ho Leong , a
Singapore-based senior regional economist at Barclays Capital
Plc. “While Asia’s superior growth is a given, Malaysia stands
out for investors because of its asset-divestment program.”  Elsewhere, South Korea’s won climbed 0.5 percent this week
to 1,155.25, Indonesia’s rupiah strengthened 0.3 percent to
8,953 and the Singapore dollar gained 0.5 percent to S$1.3268.
The Thai baht slipped 0.1 percent to 30.74.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 