-- Asian Stocks, Oil Fall on U.S. Jobless Claims; Bond Risk Rises
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-09-24T07:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/asian-stocks-oil-fall-after-jump-in-u-s-jobless-claims-bond-risk-climbs.html
The yen weakened, snapping a four-
day gain versus the dollar, on speculation Japan sold its
currency for a second time in a month to protect exporters’
earnings. Asian stocks and oil prices fell on concern the global
economic recovery is flagging.  The yen retreated 0.5 percent to 84.87 per dollar as of
4:06 p.m. in Tokyo from 84.38 in New York yesterday, after 
reaching 85.40 in trading today. Japan intervened on Sept.
15 and Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said the government will
take “bold” action if necessary. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index 
slid 0.6 percent to 124.80 and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell
0.3 percent. Futures on the S&P 500 index rose 0.3 percent.  “There’s rumors of intervention,” said  Adrian Foster ,
head of financial-markets research for Asia at Rabobank Groep NV
in Hong Kong. “The low 80s appear to be their broad line in the
sand. They’ve got an awful lot of bullets to fire.”  An unexpected jump in U.S. jobless claims yesterday and a
report that economists said will show orders for durable goods
dropped in August raised concern that growth in the world’s
largest economy is flagging, prompting stock indexes in Japan
and Australia to decline. Emerging-market shares rose after EPFR
Global said funds targeting developing nations drew $3.38
billion in the five days ended Sept. 22, the most in seven weeks.
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil company,
raised $70 billion in the world’s largest share sale.  ‘Aggressively Intervene’  Japan’s currency has gained 1.4 percent since the
intervention last week pushed the yen down to a one-month low
from the strongest level in 15 years. Vice Finance Minister
 Fumihiko Igarashi  told reporters in Tokyo that he hadn’t heard
of any intervention in the foreign-exchange market.  Japan “will again aggressively intervene in the foreign-
exchange markets to prevent further yen strength,”  Calvin Tse ,
a currency strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York, wrote in a
research note yesterday. Morgan Stanley forecasts the yen will
weaken to 93 per dollar by the end of the year, according to the
note.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 1 percent to 9,471.67,
lurching between a drop of 1.6 percent and a gain of 0.4 percent.  Canon Inc., the world’s biggest camera maker, dropped 1.7
percent and Fanuc Ltd., a maker of industrial robots that earns
about 80 percent of revenue overseas, fell 1.1 percent. The yen
plunged around 1:15 p.m. on speculation the government is
intervening to weaken the currency, and then pared the advance.  U.S. Concerns  “Nobody disputes that Japan’s growth depends on exports,
and the currency’s appreciation can wreck the country’s
recovery,” said  Hiroshi Morikawa , a strategist in Tokyo at MU
Investments, which manages about $14 billion in assets.
“Intervention moves the currency market strongly, so stock and
bond markets react quickly to the possibility of intervention.”  Samsung Electronics Co., which gets 20 percent of its
revenue in America, dropped 2.6 percent in Seoul. Hynix
Semiconductor Inc., a computer-memory chipmaker that gets about
a quarter of its sales from North America, lost 4.5 percent.
 HSBC Holdings Plc  sank 0.5 percent in Hong Kong after a person
briefed on the matter said Chief Executive Officer  Michael Geoghegan  will step down at the end of the year.  Fund Inflows  Asia’s developing-nation stocks rose, with the  MSCI
Emerging Market Asia Index  increasing 0.2 percent to a two-year
high. South Korea’s  Kospi index  climbed 0.8 percent, India’s
 Sensex index  rose 0.3 percent and Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite
Index  jumped 1.6 percent to a record. Chinese markets are closed
for a holiday today.  “Inflows into emerging markets have remained robust, which
explains why the Asian markets in particular continue to hold up
well,” said  Michael Auyeung , who manages about $640 million as
chief investment officer at Pacific Mutual Fund Bhd. outside
Kuala Lumpur.  The Taiwan dollar climbed 0.2 percent to NT$31.54 per
dollar and Malaysia’s ringgit gained 0.1 percent to 3.0975 on
speculation global funds will pump more money into Asia’s
developing nations to profit from the world’s fastest economic
growth. Investors plowed about $45 billion into emerging-market
equity funds in the year through Sept. 22, according to EPFR
Global.  India’s rupee climbed 0.2 percent to 45.55 after the
government lifted the cap on foreign investment in bonds for the
first time in 18 months, doubling the limit on sovereign bonds
was to $10 billion. It allowed overseas investors to buy $5
billion obligations sold by infrastructure companies, boosting
permitted investment in corporate debentures to $20 billion.  Oil, Yen  Oil dropped 0.4 percent to $74.86 a barrel in New York
after U.S. government data showed initial jobless claims
increased by 12,000 to 465,000 in the week ended Sept. 18.  “There is negative sentiment sweeping the market,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , managing director at Commodity Broking
Services Pty in Sydney. “We’ve got enough oil. We need to see
more confidence going through the economy.”  Treasury 10-year notes rose for a sixth day, the longest
winning streak since yields fell to record lows in 2008. The 10-
year yield dropped one basis point to 2.55 percent, according to
BGCantor Market Data.  Bookings  for goods meant to last at least
three years dropped 1 percent, the biggest drop in a year,
according to the  median forecast  of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before today’s release.  The cost of protecting corporate and sovereign bonds from
default climbed, according to traders of credit-default swaps.
The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade borrowers
outside Japan rose 3 basis points to 126 basis points, Credit
Agricole CIB prices show. Credit-default swap indexes are
benchmarks for protecting bonds against default and traders use
them to speculate on credit quality.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry in Hong Kong at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  