-- Most Asian Stocks Fall as U.S. Jobless Claims Data Stoke Growth Concerns
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-09-24T10:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/asian-stocks-fall-on-increase-in-u-s-jobless-claims-canon-honda-decline.html
Most Asian  stocks  fell, paring the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s fourth straight weekly gain, after an
increase in U.S. jobless claims damped the outlook for global
economic growth.  Samsung Electronics Co., which gets a fifth of its revenue
in America, dropped 2.3 percent in Seoul.  HSBC Holdings Plc  sank
0.6 percent in Hong Kong after a person briefed on the matter
said the company’s chief executive officer will step down. Canon
Inc. lost 1.7 percent on concern a stronger yen will hurt
overseas sales. Japan’s exporters rallied briefly today on
speculation the government was acting to weaken the yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.4 percent to 125.13 as
of 5:40 p.m. in Tokyo, paring its advance this week to 0.7
percent. About three stocks in the gauge declined for every two
that rose as the unexpected increase in U.S. claims for
unemployment benefits stoked concern weakness in the job market
will hold back the world’s largest economy.  “The U.S. economic data is casting worries about the
global economy and weighing on Asia, where relatively strong
fundamentals and corporate earnings were helping to boost
stocks,” said  Shintaro Takeuchi , who helps manage about $20
billion at Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co. “We need
to see a clearer direction that points to a global recovery for
markets to climb again.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 1 percent after
government officials declined to comment on any intervention in
foreign-exchange markets. The gauge climbed 0.4 percent earlier
after Kyodo News reported Japan had sold its currency for the
second time in two weeks to protect exporters.  Kospi Advances  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.7 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi index gained 0.8 percent, as Hyundai Motor Co. and
Kia Motors Corp. climbed following rating upgrades by Moody’s
Investors Service. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  advanced 0.3
percent. Chinese markets are closed for a holiday today.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent.
The index slipped 0.8 percent yesterday after government data
showed initial jobless claims increased by 12,000 to 465,000 in
the week ended Sept. 18. A government report due later today may
show orders for durable goods dropped in August, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Exporters declined on concern demand in the U.S., the
world’s largest economy, may slow.  Samsung Electronics , Asia’s
biggest semiconductor maker, slid 2.3 percent to 762,000 won in
Seoul, the biggest drag on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Economic Focus  Hynix Semiconductor Inc., a computer-memory chipmaker that
gets about a quarter of its sales from North America, lost 4.5
percent to 21,100 won. Billabong International Ltd., a surfwear
maker that gets almost half of its revenue from the Americas,
sank 0.3 percent to A$7.97 in Sydney.  “Investors are focusing more on the macro economy,” said
 Kazuhiro Takahashi , a general manager at Tokyo-based Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets Co.  Concerns over U.S. growth were eased this month by reports
showing inventories at wholesalers rose in July by the most in
two years, pending sales of existing U.S. houses the same month
climbed more than estimated, while private payrolls grew more
than forecast in August.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has climbed 15 percent from a
10-month low on May 25. Stocks in the index trade at 14.2 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 22.7 times at the
start of the year.  Oracle Corp. Japan , a unit of software maker Oracle Corp.,
tumbled 8.5 percent to 4,070 yen in Tokyo, the biggest decline
in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The company reported lower
first-quarter profit and cut its full-year net income forecast
by 8.2 percent.  Government Action  In Hong Kong, HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, lost 0.6 percent
to HK$80.60. CEO Michael Geoghegan will be replaced by
investment-banking head  Stuart Gulliver , according to a person
briefed on the matter, who spoke anonymously because the changes
haven’t been announced.  Japanese exporters fell after swinging between gains and
losses, tracking movements in the yen. The currency depreciated
to as weak as 85.40 today against the dollar from a one-week
high of 84.26.  The yen strengthened to about 84.93 at the close of trading
in Tokyo as Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  declined to comment
on any intervention. He had said earlier today the government
will take “bold” action if necessary to curb excessive
movements in the yen that may hurt the economy. Japan sold yen
on Sept. 15 for the first time in almost six years after the
currency climbed to a 15-year high versus the dollar.  Hyundai Motor, Kia  Canon, which gets 28 percent of its sales from the Americas,
slid 1.7 percent to 3,795 yen.  Honda Motor Co. , which receives
46 percent of its sales from North America, declined 0.8 percent
to 2,931 yen after gaining as much as 1.8 percent. Panasonic
Corp., the world’s largest maker of plasma televisions, fell 1.1
percent to 1,125 yen after climbing as much as 0.6 percent.  Among stocks that rose,  Hyundai Motor  jumped 3.9 percent to
161,500 won, and Kia Motors increased 5.6 percent to 36,800 won
in Seoul. Moody’s raised Hyundai’s issuer and senior unsecured
bond ratings to Baa2 from Baa3, and Kia’s corporate family
rating to Baa3 from Ba1.  In Singapore, commodities trader  Olam International Ltd. 
surged 6.8 percent to S$3.15 after saying it’s in talks with
Louis Dreyfus Commodities, the world’s largest rice and cotton
trader, that may lead to a merger.  Olam had the third-biggest gain in the  MSCI Asia Pacific
Index , while PT Bank Negara Indonesia had the second-largest
advance. Bank Negara jumped 7.2 percent to 3,725 rupiah after
the country’s parliament approved the state-owned lender’s plan
to sell new shares in a rights offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 