-- Massey Mine Explosion Said to Be Probed by Two Grand Juries
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r a t t o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/massey-managers-claim-state-subpoenas-in-blast-probe-are-federal-end-run.html
The April 5 explosion of a  Massey
Energy Co.  coal mine that killed 29 miners is being investigated
by two federal grand juries in West Virginia, according to a
person close to the probe.  The blast at Massey’s Performance Coal operation in
Montcoal, West Virginia, the worst U.S. mine disaster in 40
years, set off federal and state investigations into its cause,
including a criminal probe by the U.S. Justice Department.
Performance Coal ran the Upper Big Branch mine for Massey.  The federal  Mine Safety and Health Administration , the
state mine safety agency and West Virginia’s governor are also
conducting investigations.  The two grand juries have divided tasks and are meeting in
two West Virginia cities, Charleston and Beckley, the person
said. The Charleston grand jury is investigating allegations
that some mine inspectors may have accepted bribes from Massey
employees so that the company’s mines Would receive preferential
treatment when being inspected, said the person, who couldn’t be
named because the deliberations are secret. The Beckley grand
jury is investigating the explosion itself, according to the
person.  “It is not uncommon that an accident of the size and scope
of UBB would lead to a comprehensive investigation by relevant
law enforcement agencies,”  Jeff Gillenwater , a Massey
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Massey has no knowledge of
criminal wrongdoing.”  ‘Will Respond Aggressively’  The company is “cooperating with all agencies that are
investigating the tragedy at UBB,” he said. “Massey does not
and will not tolerate any improper or illegal conduct and will
respond aggressively as circumstances warrant.”  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in Charleston told investigators
at the federal safety agency in May that it was investigating
possible “willful criminal activity” at Massey’s Performance
Coal unit.  The communication was contained in a letter to federal
safety officials asking them to suspend some pending civil
actions involving the unit until after the criminal probe was
completed, according to the document. The letter didn’t specify
which civil actions would be suspended.  The U.S. Attorney’s Office has been receiving copies of the
transcripts of interviews being conducted by the West Virginia
Office of Miners’ Health Safety and Training, MSHA and a group
formed by West Virginia Governor  Joe Manchin  to investigate the
cause of the incident, according to the federal safety agency.  247 Interviews  A total of 247 interviews were conducted as of Oct. 27, the
federal agency said on its website. The West Virginia mine
safety agency has subpoenaed witnesses and “approximately 15
Massey upper-management employees have pled their Fifth
Amendment right not to provide potentially self-incriminating
evidence during the interview process,” according to MSHA.  Lawyers for six of these employees asked a West Virginia
judge in September to quash subpoenas from the state’s mine
safety director requiring them to answer questions about the
April explosion. The West Virginia attorney general subsequently
agreed that any witness who wanted to invoke the Fifth Amendment
if subpoenaed by the Office of Miners’ Health Safety and
Training could do so by letter and wouldn’t be compelled to
attend a hearing in person.  Lawyers for the employees said the state agency is being
used by MSHA, which has limited subpoena power, to force these
managers to testify in private, calling it an abuse of process.  Upper Big Branch  The six individuals include Upper Big Branch Mine Manager
Wayne Persinger, Massey Energy Vice President for Safety
 Elizabeth Chamberlin , UBB Mine Foreman Rick Foster, UBB Mine
Superintendent Gary May, UBB Chief Electrician Rick Nicolau and
Massey employee Jamie Ferguson.  Attorneys for the Massey employees sent letters to the West
Virginia attorney general last month declining to testify,
contending they were being improperly subpoenaed to give
testimony in private. The lawyers said MSHA was trying to
deflect its own complicity in the April 5 explosion.  The subpoenas were being used more as a means of
“generating public bias against Massey Energy and its personnel
than they are in respecting the rule of law and fair process,”
Chamberlin’s attorney,  Philip T. Inglima  of the Washington law
firm Crowell & Moring LLP, wrote on her behalf.  The federal agency had “dominated” the joint
investigation of the explosion by MSHA, the governor’s task
force and the state safety agency, Inglima said.  ‘Bullied or Abused’  “Some witnesses had been bullied or abused by some of the
questioners -- particularly by representatives of the governor’s
task force,” he wrote. MSHA “reportedly was using transcripts
of these inquisitions to advance its effort to promote a
criminal investigation of the Upper Big Branch tragedy, while
affording the witnesses no opportunity to review, much less
approve, the content of the transcripts,” he said.  He said his client is “blameless.”  The six employees’ case is In the Matter of Administrative
Subpoenas issued by the West Virginia Office of Miners’ Health,
Safety & Training, 10-P-22-H, Circuit Court, Raleigh County,
West Virginia (Beckley).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Stratton  in Logan, West Virginia, at 
 chrisstratton2010@yahoo.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 