-- AstraZeneca Wins EU Approval for Drug to Rival Plavix
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-09-24T15:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/astrazeneca-wins-eu-approval-for-blood-thinner-to-rival-world-s-no-2-drug.html
AstraZeneca Plc  won European
approval for a new blood thinner to rival Plavix, the world’s
second-biggest-selling drug.  The European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use recommended approval of Brilique combined
with aspirin to reduce the risk of heart attacks, strokes and
death in patients with severe chest pain or earlier heart
attacks, the London-based agency said today in a  statement . The
drug is also known as Brilinta.  Sales  of the treatment may reach $2.31 billion by 2015,
according to the average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker,
needs new products as patents expire in the next four years on
the heartburn drug Nexium and the antipsychotic Seroquel, which
 generated  a combined $9.83 billion in revenue last year.  “Brilique will provide an important treatment option for
physicians,”  Anders Ekblom , AstraZeneca’s executive vice
president for global medicines development, said in a statement.  AstraZeneca rose 22.5 pence, or 0.7 percent, to 3,334 pence
at 4:35 p.m. in London, where the company is based. Before
today, the stock had gained 14 percent this year,  compared  with
a 3.9 percent increase in the 17-stock  Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceuticals Index .  Plavix, Effient  Brilinta will compete with Plavix from New York-based
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  and Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis SA , and
Effient, sold by  Eli Lilly & Co.  All three are pills designed to
prevent platelets in the blood from clumping together to form
clots, which can cause heart attacks and strokes.  Plavix and Effient are both taken daily and remain
effective for one week after treatment is halted. Brilinta wears
off more quickly, so it may pose a lower risk of bleeding for
surgery patients.  In AstraZeneca’s key company-funded study of 18,624 people,
9.8 percent of patients on Brilinta for a year had a heart
attack, stroke or died from cardiovascular disease, compared
with 11.7 percent of those on Plavix.  Plavix, introduced in 1997, had sales of $9.8 billion last
year. Effient, approved in July 2009 with a boxed warning on
bleeding risk, made $27 million last year for Indianapolis-based
Lilly and its marketing partner,  Daiichi Sankyo Co.  of Tokyo.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration will take as long as
three more months to decide on AstraZeneca’s application to sell
Brilinta, the company said Sept. 15. An FDA advisory committee
voted 7-1 on July 28 in favor of using Brilinta to reduce the
risk of heart attacks, strokes and death in patients with severe
chest pain or previous heart attacks.  Lipitor, a cholesterol pill made by New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. , is the world’s best-selling drug with 2009 revenue of
$11.4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Hallam  in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 