-- Australia's Gillard Nominates Speaker Amid Risk of Parliamentary Deadlock
-- B y   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-09-24T09:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/australia-s-gillard-nominates-speaker-amid-risk-of-parliamentary-deadlock.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  named a speaker from the Labor Party today, reducing her
legislative advantage to a single seat after the opposition
backed out of a deal to compensate for the lost vote.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  and Gillard had agreed on
Sept. 6 to assign a lawmaker to vote along with the winning
party to make up for the speaker, who can’t vote. Abbott
scrapped that deal yesterday, saying it would violate the
constitution.  Losing the vote of  Harry Jenkins , who will be reelected
speaker on Sept. 28, is the latest blow to the Labor Party’s
ability to pass legislation. Gillard, 48, remains in power
following the closest election in 70 years after she wooed three
independent lawmakers and one Greens Party member to back her
Labor Party after it lost its majority.  “It’s difficult to have any certainty with just one
vote,”  Haydon Manning , associate professor of politics at
Adelaide-based Flinders University, said by phone today.
“Legislation will be debated behind closed doors, then between
the government and the independents, then in parliament, and
then through the media.”  Senior Liberal  Alex Somlyay  today agreed to support the
government on money bills and confidence, Australian Associated
Press reported, citing the member of parliament. He rejected
other elements of a deal that would have seen him made the
Deputy Speaker in exchange for a guarantee on “pairing” votes,
it said.  Australia’s constitution allows the speaker to vote only if
the lower house is gridlocked. Gillard wants to install a
“pairing” system under which the speaker would be linked with
a lawmaker from a major party who would have to abstain from a
vote for or against a law.  Gillard has vowed to introduce legislation including a
planned 30 percent tax on iron ore and coal profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  