-- Maybank to Expand Brokerage to Singapore, Indonesia, Hong Kong
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-09-24T01:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/maybank-to-expand-brokerage-services-abroad-as-malaysian-competition-rises.html
Malayan Banking Bhd ., Malaysia’s
 biggest lender  by assets, said it plans to set up its first
overseas investment banking operations, starting with its Asian
neighbors Singapore, Indonesia and Hong Kong.  “Our clients are going regional and we need to support
them in those markets,”  Tengku Zafrul Tengku Abdul  Aziz, chief
executive officer of the group’s investment banking arm, Maybank
Investment Bank Bhd., said in an interview. “Malaysia is very
competitive.”  Maybank lost its standing as Malaysia’s leading underwriter
of equity and rights offers last year to local rival  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
since narrowed the gap with eight equity offerings, including
some of the country’s biggest share sales this year.  It has a 20.6 percent market share in underwriting
Malaysian equity and rights offerings this year, up from 13.2
percent in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. CIMB has
extended its lead to 27.3 percent this year from 20.5 percent,
Bloomberg’s underwriting league table shows.  Maybank helped arrange  Sunway Real Estate Investment
Trust’s  1.5 billion ringgit ($485 million) initial public offer
in July, Southeast Asia’s biggest this year. It also underwrote
the Kuala Lumpur listing of  CapitaMalls Malaysia Trust , partly-
owned by Southeast Asia’s biggest developer, which raised about
half the amount also in July. Both stocks fell below their offer
prices and have since risen, with CapitaMalls gaining 12 percent
from its share sale.  CIMB’s Head Start  Maybank’s overseas ventures in markets such as Singapore
and Indonesia have excluded investment banking without permits
for those services. CIMB had a head start after buying the
stock-broking business of Singapore’s G.K. Goh Holdings Ltd. in
2005, which gave it presence in Singapore, Indonesia, Hong Kong,
Thailand, the U.K. and U.S.  “We don’t target ourselves against CIMB,” Tengku Zafrul,
who joined the lender in June this year, said yesterday. “Our
aim for the next three years is to make sure that we’re among
the top three in all segments of investment banking every year:
equity capital market, debt capital market, mergers and
acquisitions, IPOs, and equity stockbroking.”  Maybank aims to set up investment banking operations in
Singapore, Indonesia and Hong Kong by June next year as a start
to its regional expansion, Tengku Zafrul said. In Indonesia, it
may either buy a stockbroker or apply for its own license. It
plans to request for a new permit in Singapore and reactivate an
old license in Hong Kong, he said.  ‘Mega Deal’  Investment banking accounted for 2.7 percent of Maybank’s
net income in its last  financial year  ended June 30. By
comparison, corporate and investment banking contributed  15.9
percent  at CIMB, Malaysia’s second-largest lender by assets.  “Last year was essentially the story of one mega deal,
Maxis, which determined where you ended up on the league
tables,” CIMB Chief Executive Officer  Nazir Razak  said in an
e-mail this week. “This year, you need to be part of many deals
to do well, which makes it much tougher on the marketing
teams.”  Maxis Bhd. , Malaysia’s biggest mobile-phone operator,
raised 11.2 billion ringgit last year in the country’s largest
initial public offer. CIMB was lead arranger for the sale,
which Maybank also participated.  Stock sales, including placements, in Malaysia have
amounted to 10.5 billion ringgit so far this year, compared to
17.9 billion ringgit last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  More Deals  Maybank has more equity deals in the pipeline for the next
six months up to the first quarter of next year, Tengku Zafrul
said. It is arranging the initial share sale of  MISC Bhd.’s 
heavy engineering unit, set to list by the end of October. MISC
is the world’s biggest owner-operator of liquefied natural gas
tankers.  “We’re not seeing signs of a double-dip from the deals
flow that we are getting so far,” Tengku Zafrul said. “I don’t
have visibility for the second quarter yet.”  RHB Capital Bhd. , Malaysia’s fourth-biggest lender, ranks
third in Bloomberg’s underwriter league table for equity and
rights offerings this year with a 17.7 percent market share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Linus Chua in Singapore  at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net . 