-- U.K. Commission to Consider Full Separation of Banks
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-09-24T11:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/banking-commission-to-examine-separating-investment-commercial-activities.html
A British government-commissioned
 enquiry  designed to promote stability and competition in the
banking industry may instruct lenders to separate their consumer
and investment banking divisions.  The Independent Commission on Banking said it may bar banks
from proprietary trading, where they trade with their own money,
as well as introduce so-called living wills and the use of
contingent capital, the body said in a statement today. The
commission will also consider reducing “market concentration”
in the industry.  “Being practical will be in the upper most of our minds,”
said  John Vickers , the Oxford University professor and former
Bank of England economist who is running the commission, said at
a press conference in London today. “Making recommendations
that are totally impractical would not be a very sensible thing
to do.”  HSBC Holdings Plc ,  Barclays Plc  and  Standard Chartered Plc 
have said they may move their headquarters overseas if the U.K.
demands separation. The commission’s terms of reference require
it to  consider  the effect of their proposals on the U.K.’s
“competitiveness” and on the government’s tax income, which
would be cut by bank relocations.  Vickers said today that the commission will hold public
hearings to discuss the issues and some private hearings where
banks will be asked for confidential information. The commission
will then publish an options paper in April before presenting
final conclusions next September.  ‘Hard Questions’  “The more evidence in the pot the better,” Vickers said,
as the five-member commission held its first press conference.
“Experience shows that the risk of not asking hard questions
about financial stability are greater than doing so.”  The findings will consider the impact on the domestic and
overseas operations of British banks and the U.K. operations of
foreign-owned lenders, the commission said.  The U.K. government which set up the enquiry in June is
looking to reduce the risks posed by the financial sector after
the state was forced to spend, pledge and loan 850 billion
pounds ($1.3 trillion) to rescue British banks during the credit
crisis, according to the National Audit Office.  The  British Bankers’ Association  issued a statement
welcoming the commission, noting that U.K. banks have already
taken “significant” steps to improve their financial position
and hoping for “constructive” conclusions.  Bill Winters , co-CEO of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s investment
bank from 2004 to 2009,  Martin Wolf , chief economics commentator
at the Financial Times,  Clare Spottiswoode , former director
general of energy regulator Ofgas, and  Martin Taylor , the former
Barclays CEO, are also on the panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  