-- Bernanke Says New Rules, Regulators Will Reduce Risk of Crises
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-09-24T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/bernanke-says-new-rules-regulators-will-reduce-risk-of-crises.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said new regulation should reduce the risk of future
financial crises and called for more research on asset price
bubbles, market liquidity and decision-making during panics.  “Numerous steps, both prescribed in the legislation and
taken independently by regulators, will work to make our
financial system more resilient to shocks,” the Fed chairman
said today in prepared remarks to economists at Princeton
University.  The Fed chief cited tougher capital and liquidity standards
for financial institutions and rules that require more
derivatives to “be standardized and traded on exchanges rather
than over the counter.”  Bernanke said the financial crisis exposed gaps in
economics, the regulation of financial institutions and in risk
management inside banks and brokers. Tougher risk management
standards by both regulators and firms, improved supervision,
and more stringent standards for financial strength should
“reduce the risk of crises and mitigate the effects of any that
do happen,” he said.  The Fed chairman didn’t comment on monetary policy in the
text of his remarks. U.S. central bankers said Sept. 21 they
were “prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed to
support the economic recovery.” They also left the benchmark
lending rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  “Although financial markets are for the most part
functioning normally now, a concerted policy effort has so far
not produced an economic recovery of sufficient vigor to
significantly reduce the high level of unemployment,” Bernanke
said.  Financial Panic  Central bankers drew on 19th century lender-of-last-resort
theory developed by Walter Bagehot to manage a non-traditional
financial panic, he said. Instead of depositors fleeing banks,
short-term creditors were fleeing financial institutions such as
investment banks and non-bank mortgage lenders.  Invoking emergency authority, the Fed created programs such
as the Commercial Paper Funding Facility to provide hundreds of
billions in credit to companies and banks after the usual
channels of lending and financing broke down.  “The excessive dependence of some financial firms on
unstable short-term funding led to runs on key institutions,
with highly adverse implications for the functioning of the
system as a whole,” Bernanke said.  The Fed chairman blamed the runs on a regulatory structure
that didn’t encompass lenders working outside the banking system
or place enough emphasis “on the detection of systemic risks.”  Fed officials  have revamped their approach to systemic
risk, he said. Bernanke, 56, was chairman of Princeton’s
economics department from 1996 to 2002.  ‘Wide Expertise’  “We are taking an approach that is both more multi-
disciplinary -- making greater use of the Federal Reserve’s wide
expertise in macroeconomics, finance, and other fields to
complement the work of bank supervisors,” Bernanke said. Fed
officials are also trying to focus on risks across the system as
well as those inside individual institutions, he said.  Bernanke challenged economists to come up with better
models of how investors, employers and consumers act in periods
of extreme uncertainty. More work is also needed on how asset
bubbles start and end, he said, and on how crises can impair
liquidity.  “To obtain critically needed liquidity, firms were forced
to sell assets quickly, but these ‘fire sales’ drove down asset
prices and reinforced investor concerns about the solvency of
the firms,” Bernanke said. “This dynamic contributed to the
profound blurring of the distinction between illiquidity and
insolvency during the crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
   jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  