-- Bernanke Says U.S. Economic Growth Too Slow Even With Fed Bond Purchases
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/bernanke-says-economy-recovering-more-slowly-than-policy-makers-would-like.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said damage from the financial crisis has left the U.S.
economy growing at a slower pace than policy makers want even as
the central bank’s more than $1 trillion in bond purchases have
reduced interest rates.  “By buying mortgage-backed securities and Treasuries we
did, I think, additionally stimulate the economy,” Bernanke
said yesterday in response to a question after he spoke at a
Princeton University conference.  “We avoided what could have been a global meltdown,”
Bernanke said. “But even so, we got a taste of how powerful a
financial crisis is on real activity. That blow which knocked
the world economy into a deep recession in the second half of
‘08 and the early ‘09, we are only recovering from that at a
pace slower than we would like.”  U.S. central bankers said Sept. 21 they were “prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed to support the
economic recovery.” They also left the benchmark lending rate
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent while noting that inflation
measures were at levels “somewhat below” the central bank’s
mandate to achieve stable prices and full employment.  The Fed statement boosted speculation the central bank will
buy more Treasuries sometime later this year. Yields on U.S. 2-
year notes fell to a record low of 0.407 percentage point Sept.
21 and were 0.440 percentage point in New York trading yesterday.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.1 percent to 1,148.67, a
four-month high. Fed officials next meet Nov. 2-3.  “The purchases reduced  interest rates  directly by raising
the prices of the assets that we purchased,” Bernanke said.  Economy Expanded  The economy expanded at a 1.6 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, and is probably finishing the current quarter at
a 1.4 percent annual rate, according to estimates by St. Louis
forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers.  “We will continue to monitor this and to do our best to
understand the determinants,” Bernanke said in response to a
question about the pace of the recovery.  Sluggish growth has kept the unemployment rate above 9
percent for every month this year. Inflation, as measured by the
personal consumption expenditures price index, minus food and
energy, rose at a 1.4 percent rate in July.  “Although financial markets are for the most part
functioning normally now, a concerted policy effort has so far
not produced an economic recovery of sufficient vigor to
significantly reduce the high level of unemployment,” Bernanke
said in his speech.  New regulation should reduce the risk of future financial
crises, he said, while calling for more research on asset price
bubbles, market liquidity and decision-making during panics.  ‘More Resilient’  “Numerous steps, both prescribed in the legislation and
taken independently by regulators, will work to make our
financial system more resilient to shocks,” the Fed chairman
said in the speech. Still, the rules “do not by any means
guarantee that financial crises will not recur,” he said.  The Fed chief cited tougher capital and liquidity standards
for financial institutions and rules that require more
derivatives to “be standardized and traded on exchanges rather
than over the counter.”  Bernanke said the financial crisis exposed gaps in
economics, the regulation of financial institutions and in risk
management inside banks and brokers. Tougher risk management
standards by both regulators and firms, improved supervision,
and more stringent standards for financial strength should
“reduce the risk of crises and mitigate the effects of any that
do happen,” he said.  Last Resort  Central bankers drew on 19th century lender-of-last-resort
theory developed by Walter Bagehot to manage a non-traditional
financial panic, he said. Instead of depositors fleeing banks,
short-term creditors were fleeing financial institutions such as
investment banks and non-bank mortgage lenders.  Invoking emergency authority, the Fed created programs such
as the Commercial Paper Funding Facility to provide hundreds of
billions in credit to companies and banks after the usual
channels of lending and financing broke down.  “The excessive dependence of some financial firms on
unstable short-term funding led to runs on key institutions,
with highly adverse implications for the functioning of the
system as a whole,” Bernanke said.  The Fed chairman blamed the runs on a regulatory structure
that didn’t encompass lenders working outside the banking system
or place enough emphasis “on the detection of systemic risks.”  Fed officials  have revamped their approach to systemic risk,
he said. Bernanke, 56, was chairman of Princeton’s economics
department from 1996 to 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
   jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  