-- Biggest Airlift of Horses Is Underway to World Equestrian Games in U.S.
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-09-24T12:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/biggest-horse-airlift-is-under-way-to-kentucky-s-world-equestrian-games.html
The biggest-ever airlift of horses
has started in preparation for the  World Equestrian Games , which
begin tomorrow in Kentucky.  About 450 horses, valued at 100 million euros ($134
million), are being flown to the U.S. from Liege, Belgium and
Amsterdam in the Netherlands on 10 specially fitted charter
flights, the  FEI,  the international governing body for all
Olympic equestrian disciplines, said. Nineteen horses will
travel from Australasia and 35 from South America.  “This is the biggest horselift in history,”  Henry Bullen ,
director of  Peden Bloodstock , said in an interview. Peden
Bloodstock is responsible for arranging the air charters from
Europe. “It’s bigger than the Olympic Games, when less than 300
horses are being transported.”  A round trip from Europe costs between 8,500 and 13,000
euros per horse, depending on whether the animals will be
travelling economy, business or first class, Bullen said.  Some of the horses, such as Dutch dressage stallion
 Moorland’s Totilas , who is national, European and World Cup
champion with his rider  Edward Gal , are worth several million
euros each.  The sixth World Equestrian Games will be held at Kentucky
Horse Park in Lexington. More than 900 riders and 1,300 horses
will be competing in eight disciplines in the first Equestrian
Games held outside of Europe. The event ends Oct. 10.  After landing in Cincinnati, the horses will be kept in
quarantine for a minimum of 42 hours before they leave for a 90-
minute trip to Kentucky Horse Park, where they will be reunited
with their riders.  “Most of them are used to flying,” Bullen said. “In
fact, they prefer it over being on the road in a horsebox or
truck, which can sometimes get bumpy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  