-- Zell's Firm in Talks to Invest in Mexican Property Companies
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-09-24T17:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/billionaire-zell-in-talks-to-invest-in-mexican-colombian-property-firms.html
Billionaire investor  Sam Zell’s 
Equity International is in talks to invest in Mexican and
Colombian real-estate firms as economic growth prospects
outweigh drug-fueled violence, Chief Executive Officer  Gary Garrabrant  said.  Equity International may return to Mexico after selling its
last investment there in 2008 and may put money in Colombia for
the first time, Garrabrant  said in a phone interview yesterday
from Chicago. He declined to name the companies involved in the
discussions.  “This bigger theme of societal change trumps the
skirmishes,” said Garrabrant, who founded the company with Zell
in 1999. “You have growth of the middle class and increasing
consumerism. The demand is constant, the demand is high.”  An escalating drug war in Mexico has drawn comparisons to
Colombia two decades ago, when cocaine kingpin  Pablo Escobar 
helped make the country one of the world’s most violent. The
South American nation, which has cut kidnappings by 93 percent
and murders by half since 2002, posted the fastest economic
growth since 2007 last quarter. Mexico expanded the most since
1998, even as the government says violence saps 1.2 percentage
points from gross domestic product annually.  ‘Next Best’  Equity International is seeking to buy stakes in companies
that benefit from rising demand for affordable and middle-income
housing, Garrabrant said. The firm invested $32 million in
 Desarrolladora Homex SAB , now Mexico’s biggest homebuilder, in
2002 and sold the last of that stake in 2008, earning its
investors more than $500 million, he said. Retail property,
logistics and mortgage-finance companies are also attractive, he
said.  Zell, who three years ago sold his Equity Office Properties
Trust to Blackstone Group LP for $39 billion just as commercial
property prices were peaking, said at a Sept. 16 conference in
Chicago that Colombia may be the “next best” Latin American
market.  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  will double
government housing subsidies to the poor and middle class as
part of plans to boost growth in Latin America’s fifth-biggest
economy, Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said in June,
when he was an adviser to Santos’s campaign.  A Finance Ministry press officer, who asked not to be named
because he’s not authorized to speak publicly, declined to
comment today.  ‘Rising Phoenix’  Santos, who took office last month and served as defense
minister in the previous government, has helped engineer the
Colombian rebels’ worst defeats. The killing of  Mono Jojoy ,
second-in-command of the country’s biggest guerrilla group, by
Colombian forces on Sept. 22 “is going to change our history,”
Santos said yesterday.  “Colombia is now viewed as this rising phoenix,”
Garrabrant said. “It’s been off the screen for so long. We like
to be early, if not first.”  Colombia’s plan to integrate its securities exchange with
those of Peru and Chile also boosts growth prospects because it
increases liquidity and attracts international investors,
Garrabrant said. The Andean countries may start a system of
cross-border stock transactions in November, Lima Stock Exchange
President  Roberto Hoyle  said on Sept. 21.  Equity International has invested $1.5 billion in markets
outside the U.S., more than half of that in Brazil, Latin
America’s largest economy, Garrabrant said. The firm bought
stakes in companies including  Gafisa SA , Brazil’s second-biggest
homebuilder by revenue, and  BR Malls Participacoes SA , Brazil’s
biggest owner of shopping malls.  Gang Violence  In Mexico, Latin America’s second-biggest economy, violence
related to organized crime has killed more than 28,000 people
since President  Felipe Calderon  began battling drug gangs when
he came to office in December 2006. Economic growth that tops
developed markets including the U.S. makes the country
attractive, Garrabrant said.  Mexico has added 677,373 formal jobs this year, already
surpassing the central bank’s 2010 forecast, after losing
181,271 positions last year. Job growth is giving the
government’s housing agency more capital to provide mortgages,
Homex Chief Financial Officer  Carlos Moctezuma  said on a
conference call in June.  “The scale of this middle class growth and evolution is
much more powerful than the violence that’s occurring on the
border and in other areas of the country,” Garrabrant said.
“It’s horrifying, the whole thing, and yet we like to be
contrarian.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  