-- Blockbuster Chief Says He Will Evaluate `Every Single Store'
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-09-24T16:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/blockbuster-chief-says-he-ll-evaluate-every-single-store-in-video-chain.html
Blockbuster Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  James Keyes  said he will evaluate “every single store”
in the video-rental chain as it reorganizes to compete with
competitors that provide movies online and by mail.  The 25-year-old company filed for bankruptcy yesterday in
New York after losing sales to  Netflix Inc. ’s Web and mail-order
movie service and  Coinstar Inc. ’s Redbox DVD rental kiosks.
Revenue dropped 20 percent to $4.06 billion last year, when
Dallas-based Blockbuster reported a $558.2 million net loss.  As of Aug. 29, Blockbuster had about 5,600 stores
worldwide, including 3,300 in the U.S., according to court
papers.  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Morgan  Securities 
in Los Angeles, said the company may have to cut U.S. locations
to about 2,000 to increase annual sales per store to at least $1
million. In 2002, that figure stood at $1.1 million, he said.  “No one can predict what the market will look like for
them going forward as Netflix and Redbox continue to take market
share, so they are shooting in the dark,” Pachter said. The
company will also face pressure to cut stores from “a new class
of  shareholder  wanting to see cash increasing in a hurry,” he
said.  In the past two years, Blockbuster has closed 1,061 U.S.
company-operated stores, according to a court document. All its
U.S. operations, including stores, DVD vending kiosks, mail and
digital, will continue to operate normally, the company said.  Every Store  “We’ll literally be evaluating every single store,”
Keyes, 55, said yesterday after a bankruptcy hearing in
Manhattan.  The company is likely to close more than 500 stores and
will seek ways to reduce lease costs on hundreds of others, a
person with knowledge of the plans said. The actual number of
stores is still being worked out, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the deliberations are private and
subject to court approval. The Wall Street Journal reported the
store closings earlier.  “We’ve never said how many are going to close because we
don’t know,” said  Patty Sullivan , a spokeswoman for
Blockbuster.  Movie Gallery  Movie Gallery Inc.,  which once had as many as 4,800
locations, filed for bankruptcy in 2007 and closed more than
1,700 stores. After reorganizing, the chain closed another 715,
before filing a second bankruptcy in February and liquidating.  In 2009, Blockbuster reached a deal with  NCR Corp.  for DVD
vending kiosks. Duluth, Georgia-based NCR owns, operates and
maintains the kiosks and pays royalties to Blockbuster.
Blockbuster said in a court filing that the agreement lets it
compete with Redbox without the startup costs.  As of Sept. 19, there were about 6,600 Blockbuster kiosks
throughout the U.S. That business will continue to operate, NCR
said yesterday in a statement.  Blockbuster has a marketing partnership with  Comcast Corp. ,
the biggest U.S. cable-television provider, in which subscribers
are offered Blockbuster’s by-mail services through a website.  The company also negotiated agreements with consumer-
electronics makers, including  Samsung Electronics Co.  and
 Toshiba Corp.  to deliver movies to customers with Internet-
connected TVs and Blu-ray players through a partnership with
Sonic Solutions. Blockbuster also has an accord with  Motorola
Inc.  to embed its digital applications in mobile phones.  “We’ve already transformed the business model,” Keyes
said yesterday.  Older, Affluent Shoppers  As the company continues to lose business to online and
mail-order rivals, its customers will increasingly be older,
affluent shoppers who aren’t as technologically savvy, said
Pachter, the Wedbush analyst.  “What Blockbuster offers is a fairly high-priced product,
but you can get what you want immediately and the selection is
extensive,” Pachter said.  Blockbuster dropped 22 percent to 4.3 cents yesterday in
over-the-counter  trading  and has plunged 94 percent this year.  Netflix  rose $3.54, or 2.3 percent, to $160.47 yesterday on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. Revenue at the Los Gatos, California-
based company climbed 22 percent last year to $1.67 billion.
Bellevue, Washington-based  Coinstar , which had about 22,400 DVD
kiosks as of Dec. 31, jumped 2.6 percent to $40.53 on the
Nasdaq.  Debt, Equity  Under the proposed reorganization plan, there will be no
recovery by the holders of the company’s outstanding
subordinated debt, preferred stock or common stock, Blockbuster
said in a statement. Senior bondholders will swap their debt for
equity in the reorganized company.  “Blockbuster seeks a restructuring that permits a
significant de-leveraging of its business so that it can move
forward at the digital clip at which its industry and
competitors are currently running,”  Jeffery Stegenga , the
company’s restructuring officer, said in a court filing.  In court papers, the company listed  assets  of $1.02 billion
against debt of $1.46 billion. The Chapter 11 filing “provides
the optimal path for recapitalizing our balance sheet and
positioning Blockbuster for the future, as we continue to
transform our business model to meet the evolving preferences of
our customers,” Keyes said in a statement yesterday.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 