-- Bolivian Inflation, GDP May Climb Less Than Expected This Year, Arce Says
-- B y   S a r a   S h a h r i a r i
-- 2010-09-24T20:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/bolivian-inflation-gdp-may-climb-less-than-expected-this-year-arce-says.html
Bolivian inflation may quicken less
than the central bank’s 2010 forecast as a surge in consumer
prices last month was driven by a temporary supply shock due to
extreme weather, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said.  Since ending 2009 at 0.3 percent, consumer prices in the
$17 billion economy quickened in the first half of 2010 before a
surge in July and August accelerated the annual rate up to 2.6
percent. Last month’s 1.06 percent price rise was the biggest
increase since June 2008, the  government  reported Sept 3.  The central bank, which forecast 4.5 percent inflation,
plus or minus 1 percentage point, in its January Monetary Policy
Report, in July trimmed that to 4 percent. Arce said he is
confident inflation will not rise above 4 percent in 2010.  “I’m looking at 3 percent to 3.5 percent, so it will be
less than the central bank’s forecast,” Arce, 46, said in an
interview in his office in La Paz yesterday.  Arce said that widespread drought, subsequent wildfires and
an unusually cold June and July slashed harvests and farm output
in eastern parts of Bolivia. In the country’s main mining
districts around Potosi, a nearly three-week-long protest last
month blocked roads and crippled production, adding momentum to
inflation in the region.  “We don’t see these problems repeating,” Arce said.
“Last month was a peculiar month. It was an outlier.”  Bolivian monthly inflation may ease in September in
comparison to August, Arce said.  Bolivia’s annual inflation was 11.85 percent in 2008.  Growth Target  While lowering his estimate for inflation this year, Arce
said the government also cut its 2010 economic growth estimate
to 4 percent from 4.5 percent, Arce said.  The new 4 percent figure is conservative, Arce said, adding
that he is “very confident” it will be reached in 2010.  The land-locked country’s 3.3 percent GDP growth in 2009
was one of the highest among Western Hemisphere nations tracked
in the  International Monetary Fund’s  April 2010 report.  Bolivia is now considering raising 2010 public investment
to $2.1 billion from $1.8 billion to spur growth, he said.  “If we can invest in these last four months, we may be
able to reach the 4.5 percent figure we projected earlier,” the
minister said.  Arce, who joined the central bank in 1987, received a
degree in economics from the Universidad Mayor de San Andres in
Bolivia and a master’s degree in economics from the University
of Warwick in England.  He became Bolivia’s finance minister in 2006 under
President  Evo Morales .  Bonds  Bolivia plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years in June or July 2011, Arce said.  Arce said the Corporacion Andina de Fomento, the Andean
development lender, is advising Bolivia on issuing bonds.
Bolivia cannot yet disclose the size of the offering, Arce said.  “We would like to show the world that we are able to issue
bonds, that we are a trustworthy country and a sustainable
growth country,” Arce said.  Bolivia is planning to tap the international market as a
global economic rebound increases demand for high-yielding
assets. The Andean country may use the bonds to help finance a
5-year, $17 billion dollar industrialization plan, Arce said.  Standard & Poor’s raised Bolivia’s foreign-currency rating
to B from B- in May and said the outlook is positive.  “The positive outlook reflects the country’s resilient
economy and prudent fiscal policy,” S&P said in the statement.
“The Bolivian economy depends highly on external conditions and
has performed better than most of its regional peers.”  ‘Reversing’ Neo-Liberalism  Bolivia’s plans to nationalize industries formerly held by
the state will not affect enterprises initiated as private
industries, Arce said.  “We are going to nationalize what belonged to the state,”
Arce said. “But private investment from the origin will be
respected under the constitution.”  In early September, Morales nationalized a 33 percent stake
in a Bolivian cement producer, taking the shares away from
Sociedad Boliviana de Cemento, or Soboce.  Soboce paid more than 180 million Bolivianos ($25.6 million)
for a third of Fancesa’s stock when the company was privatized
in 1999, according to statements from the company.  “We are reversing the neo-liberalism model,” Arce said.  In May, Morales ordered the nationalization of three
generating utilities and an electric distribution company.  The three power generators were controlled until 1994 by
the state-run Empresa Nacional de Electricidad.  Morales, who was first elected in 2005, has repeatedly
called for increased government control over the country’s
natural resources and utilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sara Shahriari  in La Paz at 
 sshahriari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  