-- Brazil Stocks Rise in Biggest Weekly Gain in 2 Months on Petrobras Sale
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-09-24T14:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/bovespa-stock-index-futures-rise-after-70-billion-petrobras-share-sale.html
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index rose,
heading for the biggest weekly gain in two months, after
Petroleo Brasileiro SA raised 120.4 billion reais ($70.1
billion) in the world’s largest stock offering, indicating
growing demand for the nation’s assets.  Petrobras , Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, slipped
0.4 percent after selling shares at a 2 percent discount to
yesterday’s closing price, smaller than some analysts estimated.
 Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, gained 2.6
percent after approving a stock buyback of as much as $2
billion.  Fibria Celulose SA , the world’s largest pulp maker,
gained as commodities advanced.  “The fact that Petrobras was able to raise the largest
equity offering ever done in the world, 10 days before a
presidential election shows how far this market has come,”  Will Landers , who oversees about $8 billion in Latin American stocks
at BlackRock Inc., said in an e-mail. “I continue to be very
positive on the Brazilian stock market, and removing this huge
overhang from the market has to be seen as positive.”  The Bovespa rose 0.7 percent to 69,277.63 at 10:05 a.m. New
York time. Five stocks rose for every one that fell. The gauge
is up 3.3 percent this week, the most since the week ended July
23. It’s up 1 percent this year, tempered by a 27 percent drop
for Petrobras, its biggest stock, on concern the share sale
would dilute earnings.  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, sold 2.4 billion common
shares for 29.65 reais each and priced 1.87 billion preferred
stock at 26.30 reais apiece, according to a regulatory filing
from the company yesterday. The discount was smaller than
estimates of 3 percent to 6 percent by analysts at BNY Mellon
Arx.  ‘Strong’ Demand  “The discount was below what the market was expecting for
the share sale,” said  Eduardo Roche , who helps oversee 3
billion reais ($1.7 billion) at Banco Modal SA in Rio de
Janeiro. “The demand seemed to be strong.”  The company is tapping demand for emerging-market assets to
fund development of oil deposits such as Tupi, the largest
discovery in the Americas in three decades, and to preserve its
investment grade credit rating. As part of the share sale,
Petrobras issued about $42.5 billion of stock to Brazil’s
government in exchange for the rights to develop 5 billion
barrels of oil reserves.  Vale  jumped to 44.54 reais. The Rio de Janeiro-based
company will buy back as many as 64.8 million voting shares and
98.4 million preferred shares, or 5 percent of the total stock
in each class, according to a statement posted to its website
late yesterday. The company also proposed a $1 billion
extraordinary dividend to return to shareholders funds generated
by asset sales to be completed by the end of the year, according
to a separate statement.  Vale’s Value  “Vale signals that it believes its shares are
undervalued,”  Leonardo Correa  and  Renato Antunes , analysts at
Barclays Capital in Sao Paulo, wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. The company thinks its shares can “provide better
return potential than other alternatives.”  Fibria  rose 2.1 percent to 29.30 reais. The Reuters
Jefferies Commodities index gained orders for U.S. capital
equipment rebounded in August, signaling a slowdown in business
investment may be less severe than some economists projected.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 12.7 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 12.6 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.6
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  