-- BP May Increase Loan Backed by Azerbaijan Crude-Oil Sales to $2.25 Billion
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-09-24T15:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/bp-banks-offer-to-increase-azerbaijan-loan-to-2-25-billion.html
BP Plc may increase a loan backed
by Azerbaijan oil sales to $2.25 billion from a planned $2
billion after the deal drew surplus demand, two people familiar
with the matter said.  More than 15 banks joined the deal during syndication and
offered to lend more than the initial amount, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the transaction is
private. The loan is linked to revenue from the Azeri-Chirag-
Deepwater Gunashli field off the coast of Azerbaijan, according
to an Aug. 16 statement from lenders led by Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and Societe Generale SA.  David Nicholas, a London-based spokesman for BP, declined
to comment.  Standard & Poor’s removed BP’s rating from watch for
downgrade today, saying the company should have “sufficient”
resources to meet at least $20 billion of costs this year and
next relating to the spill in the Gulf of Mexico. BP shares shed
38 percent since the April 20 explosion at the Macondo well that
spilled about 4.9 million barrels of crude.  BP, Europe’s second-largest oil company, has an A rating
from S&P, the sixth-highest, and an equivalent A2 rating from
Moody’s Investors Service.  Interest Margins  BP agreed to pay initial interest of 250 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate on the five-year
borrowings, rising to 300 basis points after two years and 325
basis points after three years, two people familiar with the
deal said Aug. 17. The loans are BP’s first collateralized
borrowings.  Credit-default swaps on BP rose 5 basis points to 200,
according to prices from data provider CMA at 1:52 p.m. in
London. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of investments.  Europe’s second-largest oil company is also borrowing $3
billion backed by income from its Angolan operations, arrangers
BNP Paribas SA and Standard Chartered Plc said Aug. 16. That
deal will not be increased, a person familiar with the
transaction said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 