-- Brazilian Stocks Drop as Petrobras, Steelmakers Decline
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-09-24T21:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/brazilian-stocks-drop-as-steelmakers-decline-petrobras-drops-after-sale.html
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index sank,
paring a fourth week of gains, after  Petroleo Brasileiro SA 
dropped and Bank of America Corp. said steel prices will likely
fall in the country.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, declined after selling shares in a $70 billion offering
at a 2 percent discount to yesterday’s closing price, smaller
than some analysts estimated. Gerdau SA, Brazil’s biggest
steelmaker, dropped 4.6 percent after Bank of America cut its
rating on the stock, citing a “weak” price outlook. Declines
in the Bovespa were limited by a rally in  Vale SA , the world’s
biggest iron ore producer, after it approved a stock buyback of
as much as $2 billion and proposed an extraordinary dividend.  “The steel sector is dropping after the downgrade,” said
 Fabio Cardoso , a partner at Adinvest Consultoria, a Rio de
Janeiro-based equity consulting firm. “Banks are giving back
some after rallying a lot lately. If it wasn’t for Vale, we’d be
falling a lot more.”  The Bovespa dropped 0.9 percent to 68,196.48. At least two
stocks fell for every one that rose. The gauge is up 1.7 percent
this week, the biggest weekly gain in three. It’s slipped 0.6
percent this year, pushed down by a 27 percent drop for
Petrobras, the biggest stock in the index, on concern the share
sale would dilute earnings.  Brazilian steel prices will probably fall in the fourth
quarter as rising imports boost competition,  Felipe Hirai  and
 Thiago Lofiego , analysts at Bank of America in Sao Paulo, wrote
in a note to clients today. Gerdau’s earnings in the second half
“are likely going to disappoint” because of higher raw-
material costs, the analysts wrote.  ‘IPO Bubble’  Petrobras fell 1.9 percent to 26.30 reais. The company’s
$70 billion stock sale was an “abomination” that treated
minority shareholders unfairly and may signal share offerings
are overvalued, said  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $34 billion
as executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd.  “The entire Petrobras issue is an abomination and a
terrible violation of shareholder rights,” Mobius said in a
telephone interview from Kazakhstan. “We may be entering an IPO
bubble. It means that people are just not looking at the values
and irrationally buying these things.”  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, sold 2.4 billion common
shares for 29.65 reais each and priced 1.87 billion preferred
stock at 26.30 reais a piece in the world’s biggest share sale,
according to a statement late yesterday.  Investors may be selling other stocks to have cash on hand
to pay for shares they ordered in the Petrobras offering, said
Young Kim, who oversees $1.1 billion as chief investment officer
of Mirae Asset Global Investments Brasil in Sao Paulo.  ‘Huge Overhang’  “That’s why there’s pressure for this kind of selling,”
Kim said. “I can’t see any reason why it’s so weak today.’  Petrobras is tapping demand for emerging-market assets to
fund development of oil deposits such as Tupi, the largest
discovery in the Americas in three decades, and to preserve its
investment grade credit rating. As part of the share sale,
Petrobras issued about $42.5 billion of stock to Brazil’s
government in exchange for the rights to develop 5 billion
barrels of oil reserves.  “The fact that Petrobras was able to raise the largest
equity offering ever done in the world, 10 days before a
presidential election shows how far this market has come,”  Will Landers , who oversees about $8 billion in Latin American stocks
at BlackRock Inc., said in an e-mail. “I continue to be very
positive on the Brazilian stock market, and removing this huge
overhang from the market has to be seen as positive.”  Vale, BM&FBovespa  Vale  jumped 2.8 percent to 44.66 reais. The Rio de Janeiro-
based company will buy back as many as 64.8 million voting
shares and 98.4 million preferred shares, or 5 percent of the
total stock in each class, according to a statement posted to
its website late yesterday. The company also proposed a $1
billion extraordinary dividend to return to shareholders funds
generated by asset sales to be completed by the end of the year,
according to a separate statement.  BM&FBovespa SA, the operator of the Sao Paulo exchange,
dropped 4.8 percent to 14.19 reais as its valuation became
“stretched” after surging 14 percent this month through
yesterday on speculation the Petrobras offering would boost
volumes, Kim said. The stock traded yesterday at 28.5 times
earnings after posting the best September performance on the
Bovespa.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 12.7 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 12.6 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.6
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  