-- Brazil's Anatel Expects Less Competition in December 3G Bandwidth Auction
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2010-09-24T14:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/brazil-s-anatel-expects-less-competition-in-december-3g-bandwidth-auction.html
Brazil’s telecommunications
regulator expects less competition in its sale of third-
generation  mobile-phone  capacity than in the last auction three
years ago, said  Emilia Ribeiro , director of the agency.  Anatel, as the regulator is known, expects companies to
offer lower premiums in the December auction for the so-called H
band than they did in 2007, Ribeiro said in a Sept. 22 telephone
interview. The government wants at least 1.8 billion reais ($1.1
billion) in total for frequencies in the 6 to 8 gigahertz range.  The auction will help to more than double the number of
mobile-phone users in Brazil, according to Anatel.  NII Holdings
Inc ., which operates locally under the Nextel brand, may win the
majority of licenses, according to Sept. 17 reports by Bank of
America Corp. and UBS AG. NII Holdings and Tim Participacoes
SA’s bids pushed up prices at the 2007 auction, Ribeiro said.  “The H band is valuable because it encompasses regions
with people of strong economic power,” Ribeiro said. “We can’t
expect the same premiums because there were third parties that
entered and drove the price up” in the 2007 auction, she said.  In the previous sale, NII Holdings entered the contest for
available frequencies without having the authority to operate a
mobile service, as it does now. The agency set a minimum price
of 2.7 billion reais for bandwidth in 141 areas and sold the
frequencies for 5.3 billion reais.  This year’s auction includes frequencies in Sao Paulo, Rio
de Janeiro and Minas Gerais, the three most populous states.  Alfredo Ferrari, vice president of regulation at NII’s
Brazilian unit, confirmed the company will bid in the auction,
according to a Sept. 17 e-mail. The company is seeking the
capacity to offer 3G services such as high-speed Internet
downloads.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  