-- Brazil Crops Shrivel as Amazon Dries Up to Lowest in 47 Years
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2010-09-24T18:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/brazilian-crops-shrivel-as-amazon-river-dries-to-lowest-level-in-47-years.html
Drought in Brazil, the world’s
biggest producer of coffee, sugar and oranges, is harming crops
and drying the Amazon River to its lowest in 47 years.  The Amazon’s 18-meter (59-feet) level on Sept. 20 was the
least since 1963, disrupting transportation of food, fuel and
medicines in northern Brazil, the  National Water Agency  said in
an e-mailed statement. Growers in Brazil’s Southeast expect the
drought will pare output of the nation’s key commodities.  Sugar rose to the highest price in seven months in New York
today and has jumped 29 percent this month because of concern
the South American drought threatens global supplies. Orange
juice gained 15 percent this month and coffee soared 33 percent
this year. The dry weather will persist at least until mid-
October, said Willians Bini, a meteorologist at Sao Paulo-based
weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia.  “Farmers will have to be really patient because rains are
delayed for at least a month,” Bini said in a Sept. 20
telephone interview.  La Nina, as the cyclical cooling of equatorial Pacific
Ocean waters is known, triggers changes in weather across the
globe, including dryness in parts of Brazil and hurricanes in
the Atlantic Ocean.  Coffee crops in the southeastern state of Minas Gerais may
be hurt by the driest weather in four years as Spring starts in
the Southern Hemisphere and trees begin flowering for next
year’s harvest, Joaquim Goulart de Andrade, a manager at the
 Cooxupe  cooperative, said in a telephone interview last week.
The group produces 13 percent of all Brazilian arabica coffee.
Minas Gerais accounts for about half of the country’s output.  ‘Disaster’  Rainfall in Cooxupe’s region averaged 85.2 millimeters
(3.35 inches) in the five months through August, the least since
2006 and less than half the 49-year average of 212.3 millimeters
for the period, according to data on the cooperative’s website.  “If it doesn’t rain, there is just one word to describe
it: Disaster,” Aldir Alves Teixeira, who manages coffee
purchases in Brazil at  Illycaffe SpA , said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo last week.  Trieste-based Illycaffe is Italy’s biggest roaster after
Lavazza SpA and buys half of all its coffee from about 1,200
growers in Brazil.  Sugar-cane crops in the Brazilian Center South, the world’s
largest producing region, are also being hurt by a drought that
will pare yields for this harvest and the next, Jacyr Costa
Filho of sugar maker Acucar Guarani said in a Sept. 20 telephone
interview from Sao Paulo.  ‘Serious Damage’  “Yields have already been seriously damaged,” said Costa,
chief executive officer of the sugar maker controlled by  Tereos ,
Europe’s third-largest sugar producer. “The losses are already
there.”  Sugar-cane output may fall for the first time in 11 years
in 2011, said Gustavo Correa, an analyst at research firm
FG/Agro in Ribeirao Preto, a sugar and ethanol industry hub in
northern Sao Paulo state.  “The weather is also harming seedlings, reducing output
potential for coming crops,” Correa said in a Sept. 17
telephone interview.  The Center South will harvest between 530 million and 560
million metric tons of sugar cane next season, down from about
570 million tons this year, he said. The last time production
fell was in 2000, according to data on sugar industry
association  Unica ’s website.  At Brazil’s main sugar ports, showers from cold fronts that
have cleared up at the coast before reaching rural areas are
delaying ship loading because humidity harms the product.  Drying Groves  Orange groves in Brazil’s citrus belt, the world’s biggest
producing region, will reduce output more than previously
expected this year to the lowest since 2001 because of below-
average rain, according to Sucocitrico Cutrale Ltda., which
makes about 30 percent of global orange-juice supplies.  The region’s orange crop may drop to 271.7 million boxes,
less than a May 7 estimate of 286 million, Cutrale Corporate
Affairs Director  Carlos Viacava  said in an interview last week.
Production will decline from 305 million boxes last year. A box
of oranges weighs 90 pounds (40.8 kilograms).  “Dryness is so extreme in the fields that sometimes it is
even hard to breathe,” Viacava said.  Cutrale, the world’s second-biggest orange-juice producer,
owns groves and processing plants in Sao Paulo and Florida and
port terminals in Brazil, Europe and Asia. The company, based in
Araraquara, Brazil, supplies orange juice to  McDonald’s Corp. 
and  Coca-Cola Co. ’s Minute Maid. A joint venture between
Brazil’s Citrovita and Citrosuco is the world’s largest
producer.  Planting Delays  Soybean farmers in Brazil, the world’s biggest producer
after the U.S., are delaying planting for the next crop as they
wait for rains in center-western Brazil, Somar’s Bini said.
Planting in Mato Grosso state, which produces about 30 percent
of the country’s soybeans, usually starts in mid-September.  Soybean futures have risen 11 percent in Chicago this month
on concern dryness in Brazil and Argentina may delay planting
and reduce sowing of the oilseed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 