-- California's Budget Accord Lies in Details Honed Into Legislation by Aides
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/california-budget-said-to-halt-company-tax-break-pare-costs-by-8-billion.html
Aides to  California  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and top lawmakers planned to spend the weekend
converting a tentative deal on closing a $19 billion budget
deficit into the language of legislation.  The draft agreement includes spending cuts of about $8
billion, less than the $12 billion the governor had proposed,
according to two staff members briefed on the negotiations. It
also holds education spending at about last year’s level, around
$49 billion, less than the $52 billion Democrats wanted.  About $1.4 billion in added revenue would come from
delaying a scheduled tax break that would let companies carry
forward a portion of net operating losses, the aides said. The
tax change would be suspended for two years under the plan.  California, the most populous U.S. state, has been
operating without a budget since its fiscal year began July 1,
the longest it’s ever gone without a spending plan. It is the
only state still without a budget.  “There is a budget framework in place,” Seth Unger, a
spokesman for Assembly Republicans, said in an e-mail. “Members
and staff will be working on language through the weekend so
that the leaders can come back together Monday with a consensus
and finalize.”  The governor and the Democratic and Republican leaders of
the Senate and the Assembly, known as the Big Five, announced
Sept. 23 that they’d reached a “framework” for a deal to
eliminate the deficit and end an impasse that left the biggest
municipal debt issuer without a budget for almost three months.  Schwarzenegger, a Republican approaching the end of his
term, and Democrats who hold a majority in the Legislature,
disagreed on how much spending to cut and whether to raise taxes
to fill the gap.  The tentative agreement also depends on raising $1.2
billion through the sale-and-leaseback of some state office
buildings and a $1.4 billion deficit reduction after accounting
for better-than-forecast revenue, the people said. It also
relies on the state raising more than the $3.4 billion that
Schwarzenegger said was expected from federal aid for welfare,
education and prison expenditure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
 Alison Vekshin  in Sacramento at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  