-- Schwarzenegger, California Lawmakers Agree on Budget Compromise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-09-24T16:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/california-budget-deal-framework-reached-in-talks-schwarzenegger-says.html
California  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and top lawmakers agreed on a “framework” to
close a $19 billion deficit that left the most-populous U.S.
state without a budget for almost three months.  The governor and the Democratic and Republican leaders of
the Senate and the Assembly, known as the Big Five, will hammer
out the details at a meeting in Sacramento on Sept. 27, said
 Aaron McLear , Schwarzenegger’s press secretary. Details of the
draft accord weren’t made public.  “The governor and legislative leaders have reached the
framework of an agreement, will work through the details over
the weekend, and hope to come to a final agreement when they
reconvene Monday,” McLear said after the group met yesterday in
Los Angeles.  California, the biggest U.S. issuer of municipal debt, has
been operating without a budget since its fiscal year began July
1, the longest it’s ever gone without a spending plan. It is the
only U.S. state still without a budget. Schwarzenegger, a
Republican approaching the end of his term, and Democrats who
hold a majority in the Legislature, disagreed on how much
spending to cut and whether to raise taxes to fill the gap.  The framework must still be brought to each party’s
respective caucuses for agreement. Then votes in the upper and
lower chambers would follow, possibly within the next two weeks.  Welfare  Schwarzenegger and Republicans wanted to dismantle the
state’s main welfare program and slash $12.4 billion of
spending. Democrats proposed $5.9 billion in higher taxes and
fees combined with $8 billion of spending cuts. The stalemate
led state Controller  John Chiang  to warn that he may have to
begin paying some bills with IOUs as soon as next month.  “We have a framework of a budget with the expectation of
closing on Monday,” said Senate President  Darrell Steinberg , a
Democrat from Sacramento.  Once a budget is signed, California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer 
plans to borrow as much as $10 billion using short-term notes.
The state typically seeks such financing in the second or third
quarter each year, when cash-on-hand is low, and repays it from
later tax collections. The state sold $8.8 billion of such notes
in September 2009 and paid off the securities in June.  Schwarzenegger’s Department of Finance has identified about
$6 billion of bonding needs through the end of November. Lockyer
has been waiting to sell the debt pending approval of a budget.
He sold $12 billion of securities in October and November last
year after a similar stalemate ended. The state sold more than
$30 billion of debt last year.  Higher Rate  “Once we get a budget, California is going to need to do a
fair amount of issuing, and they’ll have to do that at a higher
rate,”  Scott Minerd , chief investment officer of Guggenheim
Partners, said in a Sept. 17 telephone interview from his Los
Angeles office. “There will be buying opportunities.”  Lockyer’s office said leaders ought to complete a budget by
the end of next week to allow time to sell the bonds needed to
keep funding public works projects.  That’s because of a self-imposed “dark period” in
December and early January, when Lockyer typically doesn’t sell
debt while new economic data are prepared, along with a new
budget proposal for the coming fiscal year. The governor must
deliver the new spending plan to the Legislature in the second
week of January.  “We’re getting very pinched here,”  Joe DeAnda , Lockyer’s
spokesman, said yesterday. “If we go much longer without a
budget, it severely compromises our ability to get to market and
keep those projects going.”  Credit Ratings  In January, Standard & Poor’s cut California’s credit grade
to A-, its lowest among U.S. states, citing fiscal imbalances
and recurring cash-flow problems. S&P has said it may reduce the
state’s rating again if the budget crisis worsens.  California last sold general-fund backed bonds in June,
when it offered about $120 million of debt for veterans’ homes.
The state sold $450 million of public-works bonds in May and
$5.9 billion of debt in March.  Even with the impasse, the  extra yield  investors demand on
10-year California bonds has declined to 119 basis points above
AAA rated municipal securities from 150 basis points in March,
Bloomberg Fair Value Index data show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Yields were driven to record lows as investors sought the
perceived safety of the municipal market amid concern the
economic recovery is losing momentum. Yields on top-rated
municipal bonds maturing in 10 years have declined to to 2.55
percent yesterday from 3.36 percent on April 9, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Technical Factors  “The way munis have priced so far this year, they have
responded far more to the technical factors than to the
underlying credit,” said  Jon Schotz , co-managing partner at
Saybrook Capital in Santa Monica, California, who oversees $500
million in municipal bonds. “So much money has gone into munis
this year that funds tend to lose their discipline.”  California requires a two-thirds vote in both legislative
chambers to pass budgets, and neither Republicans nor Democrats
hold enough seats to meet that threshold. That has forced
lawmakers to agree on a plan before bringing it up for a vote.  The state’s constitution says lawmakers must send a budget
to the governor by June 15, a deadline they’ve met five times in
the last 30 years. The fiscal 2008 budget was sent to
Schwarzenegger on Sept. 16 and signed into law on Sept. 23, the
latest the state went without a spending plan until this year.  The state, with the world’s eighth-largest  economy , issued
$2.6 billion of IOUs last year after a similar budget stalemate.
That was only the second time since the Great Depression that
California had to use warrants to cover costs and conserve cash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  