-- California, Washington Sell College Build Americas as Yield at 90-Day Low
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-09-24T04:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/california-washington-sell-college-build-americas-as-yield-at-90-day-low.html
Universities in California,
Washington and  Hawaii  sold $870 million in taxable Build America
Bonds this week as relative borrowing costs for the taxable
securities fell to a three-month low.  Average yields on Build Americas have fallen about 19 basis
points, or 0.19 percentage point, in the last week to  5.57
percent  on Sept. 22 from 5.76 on Sept. 16, according a Wells
Fargo index. The  extra yield  investors demand for the federally
subsidized bonds was 183 basis points above U.S. Treasuries on
Sept. 22, the lowest since June 22, the index shows.  A proposal to extend the government-subsidized Build
Americas program will further boost their use, said  Neil Klein ,
senior managing director at New York-based Carret Asset
Management LLC. The bonds, which offer a 35 percent government
subsidy on interest rates, are the fastest-growing part of the
$2.8 trillion municipal market and have raised almost $138
billion since the first sale in April 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The number of states in the BABs market is telling,”
said Klein, who oversees $860 million of investment-grade fixed-
income assets. “Universities, in particular, are under pressure
to raise tuition and bolster their finances.”  The University of California sold $486 million in taxable
Build America Bonds this week, the University of Washington sold
$145 million and the University of Hawaii sold $239 million.  Education Borrowing Rises  Private colleges and universities increased their total
outstanding debt by about 62 percent from 2005 to 2009,
according to a July 22 Moody’s Investors Service Medians report.  Schools such as Harvard University, Yale University and
Stanford University are among 15 of the wealthiest colleges and
universities that borrowed $7.2 billion from December 2008
through November 2009 because their high-risk investing left
them suddenly strapped for cash, Moody’s reports show.  Proposed legislation would extend by a year the Build
Americas program beyond it’s scheduled December expiry, with a
32 percent subsidy.  Demand will continue to outstrip supply for as long as
investors, wary of an unsteady stock market, continue to seek
out “relatively safe” options, Klein said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 fell 1.5 percent this week, after
three straight weeks of gains, amid the Federal Reserve’s
announcement that it’s willing to loosen monetary policy to spur
growth. Applications for U.S.  unemployment  benefits unexpectedly
rose last week, a sign companies remain cautious about hiring as
economic growth slows. Initial jobless claims increased by
12,000 to 465,000 in the week ended Sept. 18, Labor Department
figures showed yesterday.  Flight to Safety  “Investors aren’t comfortable taking risk into their
portfolios, meaning a lot of the flight to Treasuries and
munis,” Klein said. “Investors will continue to accept lower
yields to avoid risk.”  Yields on 10-year U.S. Treasuries fell about 15 basis
points this week to  2.55 percent . In the tax-exempt market,
yields on top-rated 10-year bonds were unchanged at  2.61 percent 
yesterday, according to Municipal Market Advisors data, an
independent research firm in Concord, Massachusetts.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  DALLAS AREA RAPID TRANSIT, which provides bus, light rail,
commuter rail and other service to 13 area cities and towns,
plans issue $729 million in taxable Build America Bonds and $100
million in tax-exempts as soon as next week to fund its capital
construction program and refinance debt. The offering will be
backed by sales tax revenue, and is rated AA+ by Standard &
Poor’s, second-highest, and Aa2 by Moody’s, one level lower.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch will lead underwriters in
marketing the bonds to investors. (Added Sept. 23)  NEW YORK STATE URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION , which
facilitates the development of affordable housing, plans to sell
$471 million in tax-exempt bonds through a competitive sale next
week to refinance existing debt. The securities are rated AA- by
Fitch Ratings, fourth-highest, and will be backed by annual
state legislative appropriation. (Added Sept. 23)  NEW JERSEY , the third most-indebted U.S. state, plans to
sell about $665 million in bonds as soon as next week to
refinance existing debt. The general obligations are backed by
the full-faith and credit of the state, carrying rankings of Aa2
from Moody’s and AA from S&P and Fitch, all third-highest.
Underwriters led by Morgan Stanley will market the securities to
investors. (Added Sept. 24)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 