-- California Refinancing $2 Billion in Power Bonds After Upgrade by Fitch
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-09-24T20:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/california-refinancing-2-billion-in-power-bonds-following-fitch-upgrade.html
California , whose power bonds
received a credit-rating boost, plans to borrow $1.9 billion to
refinance debt sold to purchase electricity for cash-strapped
utilities during the state’s power crisis a decade ago.  The California Department of Water Resources was upgraded
one step to AA by Fitch Ratings today, third-highest, and a
level above the AA- from Standard & Poor’s. The department’s
debt has a higher ranking than the state’s general obligations
because they’re backed by revenue from consumer electricity
bills. The new issue is scheduled for Oct. 7, according to
California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer ’s  website .  “The purpose of this transaction is to continue to reduce
DWR’s variable-rate debt exposure,” Fitch analysts  Lina Santoro 
and  Kathryn Masterson  wrote. “With this refunding, DWR’s
remaining variable-rate debt as a percentage to total debt will
decline from 24 percent to just 11.3 percent.”  A portion of the sale proceeds will also terminate
interest-rate swaps agreements, according to the Fitch report.  Yields on top-rated tax-exempt general obligations due in
10 years are  2.61 percent  today, according to data from
Municipal Market Advisors, an independent research firm in
Concord, Massachusetts. The yields, which move inversely to
prices, reached 2.58 percent on Aug. 25, the lowest since MMA
began compiling the data in January 2001.  The department issued about $3 billion in tax-exempt
revenue bonds in a May 6 refinancing sale, with 10-year
securities priced to yield 3.61 percent, or 14 basis points
below an index of comparable-maturity  AA rated power-backed
debt , according to Bloomberg Fair Market Value data.  Those same bonds traded Sept. 21 at an average yield of
2.91 percent, 20 basis points below the index.  The water resources department sold bonds to finance the
purchase of electricity on behalf of investor-owned utilities
when wholesale prices soared because of shortages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  