-- Canadian Banks May Buy U.S. Regional Banks, Credit Suisse Analysts Say
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-09-24T17:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/canadian-banks-may-buy-u-s-regional-banks-credit-suisse-says.html
Regions Financial Corp.,   Synovus
Financial Corp.  and  TCF Financial Corp.  are among U.S. regional
banks that may be acquired by Canadian, Spanish or U.S. lenders,
according to analysts at  Credit Suisse AG .  The most likely takeover is TCF Financial, in Wayzata,
Minnesota, by Toronto-based  BMO Financial Group , analysts led by
 Craig Siegenthaler  wrote today in a report to investors.  Weak loan growth, shrinking profit margins, increased
regulation and diverging valuations for  bank  stocks will drive
consolidation, according to the report by Credit Suisse Equity
Research. Analysts at KBW Inc., Rochdale Securities LLC and
CreditSights Inc. made similar comments earlier this month in
predicting a new wave of U.S. bank mergers.  Forces pressuring the industry to shrink “will create more
willingness to sell from bank management teams and board of
directors over the next year,” the report said.  BMO, known as Bank of Montreal, operates Harris Bank in
Chicago. BMO could use its own stock, valued at 2.1 times
tangible book value, to buy TCF, whose stock is valued at 1.7
times, according to the report. BMO, Canada’s fourth-biggest
bank, could pay a 30 percent premium for TCF and realize a 6
percent increase in earnings per share in 2011, the Credit
Suisse team estimated.  TCF Financial spokesman  Jason Korstange  declined to
comment.  Canadian banks are trading at 93 percent premiums to U.S.
regional banks, up from an average of 23 percent in the last 10
years, the report said.  Toronto-Dominion Bank , Canada’s second-biggest lender,
operates banks in the eastern U.S. and may buy Synovus, based in
Columbus, Georgia, according to the report.  Synovus spokesman Gregory Hudgison and  Tim Deighton , a
spokesman for Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions, declined to
comment.  Spanish banks Banco Santander SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria and Pittsburgh-based  PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. , Minneapolis-based  U.S. Bancorp  and  BB&T Corp.  in Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, also may buy weaker regional lenders, the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alec D.B. McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net  