-- Carney Says Canada, U.S. Can't Diverge Too Far, Fed May Act on Inflation
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-09-24T21:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/carney-says-fed-may-act-on-low-inflation-concerned-about-canada-borrowing.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said there is a limit to how far his country’s monetary policy
can stray from its U.S. counterpart, and economists said he may
pause raising interest rates if the U.S. Federal Reserve eases
its policy.  Speaking in a CNBC Television interview today, Carney said
the “debt overhang” in the U.S. is “pushing inflation to very
low levels, and it may necessitate a Fed response.”  “There are limits to the divergence that there can be
between Canada and the United States,” Carney said. “So the
renewed weakness in the United States, if it prompts
quantitative easing or other action by the Fed has been
discussed, then we deal with the direct consequences.”  The Bank of Canada raised its policy  interest rate  a
quarter point to 1 percent on Sept. 8, the third increase this
year, and said the country’s recovery will be “slightly more
gradual” than it expected earlier this year because of U.S.
weakness. Monetary conditions remain “exceptionally
stimulative,” the bank said, and further interest rate
increases will need to be “carefully considered” given
“unusual uncertainty” surrounding the outlook.  An easing of monetary policy in the U.S. would lead to a
stronger Canadian dollar, “and the resulting disinflationary
drag would see Governor Carney raising rates more slowly than
would otherwise be the case,”  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist
with Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in a note to
clients.  ‘Firing on All Cylinders’  Fed officials indicated at their June meeting that they
prefer long-run inflation ranging from about 1.7 percent to 2
percent. That’s based on the Commerce Department’s personal
consumption expenditures price index. The index rose 1.5 percent
in the 12 months ended July. Excluding food and energy costs, it
rose 1.4 percent.  Carney said Canada’s financial system is “firing on all
cylinders” while low interest rates have encouraged borrowing.
Carney said he’s concerned about the level of  consumer borrowing 
in his country.  “With exceptionally low rates, Canadians have seen fit to
borrow, consume and buy housing,” Carney said. “We are
concerned about the level of household borrowing in Canada,
yes.”  Economists  estimate  the Canadian  economy contracted  0.1
percent in July, based on the median of nine estimates in a
Bloomberg Survey. The growth data will be released by Statistics
Canada on Sept. 30.  Carney said he expects more movement from  China  regarding
the yuan level, which has become a target for U.S. criticism.  “Currency flexibility up until now has been a slogan, not
a reality,” Carney said. “We expect China to increase the
flexibility of the currency in due course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  