-- Cattle, Hogs Rally as Dollar Decline May Boost U.S. Exports of Beef, Pork
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-09-24T16:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/cattle-hog-futures-advance-as-dollar-s-drop-may-boost-u-s-meat-exports.html
Cattle futures rose for a second
straight day and hogs gained the most in a week as the dollar
dropped, boosting prospects for U.S. beef and pork exports.  The  dollar fell  to a seven-month low against a basket of
six major currencies. Export sales of beef were 41 percent
higher in the week ended Sept. 16 than the previous four-week
average, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Pork
exports this year through July were 5.6 percent higher than a
year earlier, the most-recent USDA data show.  “Export demand continues to work in favor of beef, and the
dollar can have a positive impact on that,” said  David Kruse ,
the president of CommStock Investments Inc. in Royal, Iowa.
“There seems to be good support in general in all
commodities.”  Cattle futures for December delivery gained 0.5 cent, or
0.5 percent, to 98.75 cents a pound at 11:48 a.m. on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange. Before today, the most-active contract was
up 14 percent this year, partly as beef demand recovered from
the recession.  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index jumped as much as 1.2
percent today to the highest level since January.  Feeder-cattle futures for November settlement dropped 0.75
cent, or 0.7 percent, to $1.091 a pound. Rising corn prices may
erode feedlot profits, discouraging expansion.  Hog Market  Hog futures for December settlement climbed 1.05 cents, or
1.4 percent, to 77.075 cents a pound. A close at that price
would be the biggest gain since Sept. 14. As of yesterday, the
most-active contract was up 16 percent this year.  Hogs also rose before a USDA inventory report today that
may show shrinking U.S. sow supplies, Kruse said. A Bloomberg
News survey of 12 analysts forecast that the breeding herd
shrank 1.5 percent in August from a year earlier. That would be
little changed from the previous quarter.  The report is “likely to show that we’ve already seen the
tightest numbers,” Kruse said. Farmers began cutting herds in
2008 to curb losses caused by high feed prices and shrinking
pork demand during the recession.  The USDA’s quarterly report will be released today after
CME livestock markets close.  U.S. pork stockpiles plunged 27 percent in August from a
year earlier, the USDA said on Sept. 22.  Wholesale pork  prices
have climbed 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  