-- Chanos Remains Short For-Profit Education Stocks, Cites Graduate Salaries
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t ,   M a t t   M i l l e r   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 2010-09-24T21:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/chanos-remains-short-for-profit-education-stocks-cites-graduate-salaries.html
Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund manager
who made money betting against Enron Corp., said students of
for-profit education companies earn too little and owe too much
money after they graduate, reasons he’s bearish on the industry.  “We’ve been shorting them for a couple of years, we just
think this is a flawed business,” said Chanos, the founder of
Kynikos Associates, in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
“It is a real abuse of the federal taxpayers’ largesse that
these companies derive 80 percent from loans paid by us.”  U.S. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  said today he will
delay the release of proposed limits on for-profit colleges’
access to student grants and loans that can represent as much as
90 percent of their revenue. The Education Department says the
rule is necessary to ensure taxpayer money isn’t wasted and that
graduates aren’t saddled with debt for programs that don’t
improve their job prospects. For-profit colleges say the
regulation would hurt low-income students.  Hedge-fund manager  Steven Eisman  told CNBC on Sept. 15 that
he wouldn’t short the industry if regulators weren’t proposing
stronger rules. Eisman, who according to “The Big Short” by
Michael Lewis was one of the few investors to profit from the
collapse of the U.S. housing market, told Bloomberg News in
August that he was betting against  Strayer Education Inc .  An  index  of 12 education companies including Phoenix-based
 Apollo Group Inc. , the biggest company in the sector by
enrollment, rose less than 1 percent today. The benchmark has
declined 21 percent this year.  China  Short sellers profit from the decline in share prices by
selling borrowed stock and later replacing it with cheaper
shares.  Chanos reiterated his bearish outlook on China’s economy,
saying investors should be careful before putting money into the
country because of a lack of transparency.  “There’s a lot of financial engineering going on behind
the scenes,” he said. “The property bubble was our first
glimpse into China but as you look more and more into China,
there is more and more questions of practices that we have
seen.”  The hedge-fund manager said earlier this year that there is
a “monumental” property bubble in China. He has said China
looks like “Dubai times 1,000 -- or worse.” He founded his
hedge fund in 1985 and was one of the first investors to raise
questions about Enron’s accounting.  “There seems to be very opaque ownership structures,” he
said. “If you look at the publicly traded companies of China it
seems almost problematic in that companies report profits, but
they never seem to burn them in cash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 