-- Chavez Foes Ask Venezuela Poor to `Cheat' on President in Legislative Vote
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-09-24T15:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/chavez-foes-ask-venezuela-poor-to-cheat-on-president-in-legislative-vote.html
Antonio Ecarri, an opponent of
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  seeking a seat in the National
Assembly, says he wouldn’t have campaigned in western Caracas
five years ago for fear of being pelted by stones.  Last week, the  36-year-old lawyer  drew handshakes and
smiles in that part of the capital as he hunted for votes in the
Sept. 26 legislative election, walking between houses that are
flooded by water as high as a meter (3.3 feet) when it rains.  The positive reception signals a shift in Venezuelan
politics after a decade in which the poorest citizens were
Chavez stalwarts. His opponents, who boycotted the previous
legislative vote, are seeking gains in poor barrios to
capitalize on frustration with 30 percent inflation, the longest
recession since 2003, almost-daily blackouts and crime that has
made Caracas the most dangerous capital in South America.  “The level of dissatisfaction with Chavez gives the
opposition an opening,” said  Michael Shifter , president of the
Washington-based policy group Inter-American Dialogue. “The
Chavez strongholds are willing to listen to alternatives.”  Opposition parties had 46.6 percent support, while 45.4
percent intended to back Chavez’s socialist party, the PSUV, in
a poll taken Aug. 20 to Sept. 7 by Consultores 21. Almost 8
percent were undecided, according to the poll, which had a
margin of error of 2.24 percentage points.  Still, electoral redistricting ensures that Chavez will
retain a majority in the  165-seat assembly,  where his allies
have enjoyed near-total control since 2005, said  Saul Cabrera ,
vice president of Caracas-based Consultores 21. The government
redrew district boundaries last year to give more electoral
power to rural areas where Chavez is more popular.  Popular Vote  The opposition may win a majority of votes as poorer
citizens abandon Chavez amid a  recession  that continues for a
second year, Cabrera said. It may get just a third of the seats
because of the redistricting, Cabrera said, adding that a loss
in the popular vote would deal Chavez a political blow
nonetheless.  “We are asking people to cheat on Chavez,” said  Ramon Guillermo Aveledo , executive secretary of the Unity Table, a
loose coalition of the main opposition parties. “They can send
him a message if they vote for us.”  Chavez, 56, won a referendum in 2009 that allows him to run
for the presidency again in 2012. This year’s elections are a
dress rehearsal for that campaign, he told supporters at a rally
in western Venezuela on Sept. 21.  “It smells of 2012,” he said.  Calls to the office of PSUV campaign manager Aristobulo
Isturiz seeking additional comment went unanswered.  Recession Persists  Venezuela’s economy shrank for the fifth consecutive
quarter in the three months through June. Gross domestic product
contracted 1.9 percent from a year ago as price and currency
controls limited industrial output. Chavez’s nationalization of
assets from Monterrey, Mexico-based breadmaker Gruma SAB and
Saint-Etienne, France-based retailer Casino Guichard Perrachon
SA has also discouraged investment.  Venezuela’s annual inflation rate is the highest of 78
economies tracked by Bloomberg. Venezuelan bonds, which have
underperformed peers in the region in recent weeks amid supply
concerns and political uncertainty over the elections, may gain
after the vote,  Siobhan Morden , a debt strategist with Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stamford, Connecticut said.  Venezuela is “an obvious outlier and likely candidate for
some catch-up gains,” she said in a report Sept. 22.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 28 basis points to 11.8 percent
at 11:12 a.m. New York time, the biggest decline among emerging-
market countries tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  Homicides in Venezuela have more than tripled since Chavez
came to power, to a record 16,047 last year from 4,550 in 1998,
according to the Venezuelan Observatory of Violence, a Caracas-
based research group. The government has responded to rising
crime by adding security forces and planning tougher gun-control
laws.  The government began rationing electricity after a drought
drained hydroelectric reservoirs earlier this year, threatening
to collapse the power grid and exposing underinvestment in the
industry. Even amid heavy rains, blackouts have persisted.  “The boom years are over, and lean times are coming,”
Eccari said as he climbed steep staircases in the Los Eucaliptos
neighborhood where Jose Mendoza, a construction worker,
complained of the recent murder of three youths.  Chavez, though he isn’t on the ballot, remains a formidable
campaigner on behalf of his allies, Eccari says.  Government Successes  Government allies have won 10 out of 11 elections since
Chavez took power, and the president is revered among
Venezuelans who benefitted from free health clinics and
subsidized food markets. As oil rose to about $75 a barrel
yesterday from about $12 when Chavez took power, poverty has
fallen by half to 24 percent in 2009, government data show.  Walking through Los Eucaliptos escorted by bodyguards,
Ecarri was heckled by one Chavez supporter.  “Don’t you know we’re poor?” said one man who declined to
give his name. “What are you doing here?”  Chavez has said any opposition gains threaten to derail
social programs.  “If they succeed in taking the National Assembly, imagine
what would happen,” Chavez said Sept. 15. “They would unleash
a ferocious campaign to destabilize the country and we would be
obliged to study alternatives because we are not the idiots we
once were.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
crpons@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  