-- Chiesi Asks Judge to Suppress Statements She Made to FBI on Day of Arrest
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-09-24T19:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/chiesi-asks-judge-to-suppress-statements-she-made-to-fbi-on-day-of-arrest.html
Danielle Chiesi , accused with  Raj Rajaratnam  in the largest insider-trading case against a hedge
fund, will get a hearing on whether statements she allegedly
made to investigators can be used as evidence against her.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell , in New York set an
Oct. 28 hearing for the New Castle Funds LLC consultant indicted
with Rajaratnam, Galleon Group LLC’s co-founder. Chiesi’s
lawyers are trying to bar statements she made to Federal Bureau
of Investigation agents on Oct. 16, 2009, when she was arrested.  Agents knocked on her apartment door about 6 a.m., Chiesi’s
attorneys said in court papers. They questioned her for about
90 minutes without advising her of her right to remain silent
and speak to a lawyer, creating legal ground for suppressing
what she said, according to the defense attorneys.  “The statements elicited from Danielle Chiesi by the
agents must be suppressed because they were made in a custodial
setting without having been preceded by the advice of rights,”
her lawyers  Alan R. Kaufman  and  James M. Keneally , both of the
law firm Kelley Drye & Warren LLP, said in court papers.  “They informed the defendant that Raj Rajaratnam was
already in custody, that she had the opportunity to help herself
by cooperating, but either way she was going to be arrested then
and there or later in the day if she agreed to cooperate,” the
defense lawyers said.  Prosecution Statement  Prosecutors said the statements shouldn’t be suppressed.  “The government is prepared to call agents who will
testify that Chiesi was read her Miranda rights and agreed to
speak with the agents before she made those statements in her
apartment,” Assistant U.S. Attorneys  Jonathan Streeter  and  Reed Brodsky  said in court papers.  Rajaratnam and Chiesi are charged with illegally using tips
from company executives, hedge fund officials and other insiders
to earn millions of dollars. Both deny wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in federal court in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 