-- Chile Peso Rises to 2-Year High on Dollar's Drop, Central Bank Speculation
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-09-24T19:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/chilean-peso-rises-to-a-two-year-high-on-rate-increases-dollar-weakness.html
Chile’s peso rose to a two-year
high after the dollar weakened and traders discounted the risk
of the central bank buying dollars to weaken the local currency.  The peso gained 0.4 percent to 486.65 per U.S. dollar at
3:27 p.m. New York time, from 488.75 yesterday. It touched
484.85, the strongest level since June 11, 2008. The peso gained
2.4 percent since Sept. 17, the biggest weekly advance since the
period ended May 28.  The peso outperformed all other major Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg this week as concern dissipated
that the central bank might buy dollars to slow the peso’s rise.
The peso is appreciating after the economy grew and the central
bank raised borrowing costs more than any other major rate-
setter in the past three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The central bank is among the most hawkish in Latin
America, it will raise rates the most in the region this year,”
said  Rodrigo Aravena , chief economist at Banchile Inversiones in
Santiago. “Chile is forecast to be one of the four fastest-
growing economies in the world next year.”  The probability of the central bank intervening in the peso
at today’s exchange rate is “low,” Aravena said. “The real
exchange rate isn’t far out of line with historical averages.”  Trading Partners  That could change were the peso to rise to 470 per dollar
and appreciate against the currencies of Chile’s other trading
partners, such as the euro, yen and Brazilian real, he said.  Chile’s exchange rate is in its “normal equilibrium,”
President  Sebastian Pinera  said in New York on Sept. 22.  The central bank  raised  borrowing costs from 2 percent to
2.5 percent on Sept. 16. It has increased its benchmark rate by
half a percentage point for four straight months. It previously
held it at a record low of 0.5 percent from July 2009 through
June as it fought a recession and the consequences of an
earthquake that caused damage worth 17 percent of gross domestic
product.  The economy, South America’s fifth-largest, may grow 6.9
percent this quarter from a year earlier, according to the
median forecast of 35 economists in a central bank survey
earlier this month. That would beat  last quarter’s  6.5 percent
pace, the fastest in five years.  In a Sept. 12 interview, with the currency at 496.95 per
dollar, Central Bank President  Jose De Gregorio  said the peso
had not “overshot.” There was no need for the bank to
intervene at that point, he said.  “Neither the central bank nor the government have given
strong signals of intervention, so the dollar will keep
depreciating,” said Luis Morales, a currency trader at Banco de
Credito e Inversiones in Santiago. “This is a natural
adjustment.”  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  