-- China's Daqo New Energy Seeks $115 Million IPO After Postponing Offering
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-09-24T23:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/china-s-daqo-seeks-115-million-ipo-after-shelving-offering.html
Daqo New Energy Corp., a maker of
polysilicon materials for solar panels, will seek to raise $115
million in a U.S. initial public offering after shelving plans
for a smaller sale earlier this year.  Daqo will offer 8 million American depositary receipts at
$10.50 to $12.50 each with an overallotment option of 1.2
million ADRs, according to a  filing  with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The Chongqing, China-based company
postponed an IPO seeking $82.2 million in January, filings show.  The supplier to China-based solar-cell makers increased its
planned offering after  SouFun Holdings Ltd.  of Beijing posted
this year’s second-biggest first-day rally for a U.S. IPO on
Sept. 17. Daqo will use the proceeds to expand its manufacturing
capacity, according to the filing.  Morgan Stanley  in New York will lead the sale, while
Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray Cos. will help arrange the deal,
the filing showed. Piper Jaffray, Lazard Ltd. and Needham & Co.
of New York were the underwriters for the offering that was
pulled in January, while Morgan Stanley wasn’t involved,
according to filings.  Trony Solar Holdings Co. , the Shenzhen, China-based maker
of solar modules, plans to raise as much as $223 million in a
Hong Kong IPO, according to a prospectus today. The company in
August withdrew plans for a U.S. offering, SEC filings show.  Three Chinese companies are scheduled to sell shares in
U.S. initial offerings next week, helping to make it the busiest
week for IPOs in the U.S. this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Nine companies are seeking to raise about $2.8
billion, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 