-- China Currency Measure Set for Vote in U.S. House
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-09-25T02:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/china-currency-measure-heads-for-house-vote-after-panel-approval.html
Legislation pressing China to raise
the value of its currency is set for a vote in the U.S. House
next week, as Republicans joined Democrats in expressing
frustration that the yuan is appreciating too slowly.  “We cannot wait any longer to level the playing field for
U.S. businesses and protect American manufacturing jobs,”
Democratic Leader  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland said yesterday after
the Ways and Means Committee sent the bill to the full House.  The committee adopted the measure by voice vote after the
panel’s top Republican,  Dave Camp  of Michigan, voted with
Democrats to back the bill. The full House will vote Sept. 29,
said committee Chairman  Sander Levin  of Michigan, a Democrat.  The measure would let companies petition for higher duties
on imports from China to compensate for the effect of a weak
currency. President  Barack Obama ’s administration hasn’t taken a
position on the bill, said Natalie Wyeth, a Treasury Department
spokeswoman.
A Chinese central bank press official, who prefers not to be
identified in accordance with the agency’s rule, declined to
comment in Beijing today.  The U.S.  trade deficit  with China widened to $145 billion
in the first seven months of this year, from $123 billion for
the same period in 2009. The expanding deficit, unemployment
lingering at almost 10 percent and polls showing Democrats’
seats at risk heading into the election added support for the
bill, which has been discussed since 2005.  Flexible Rate  The yuan has strengthened about 2 percent against the
dollar since June 19, when China’s central bank said it would
pursue a more flexible exchange rate. That rate of gain is
“inadequate,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told the
panel last week. Pressure from lawmakers is helping the
administration make the case to China to raise the value of the
yuan, he said.  Lawmakers such as Camp say they are also frustrated with
barriers China has raised to American imports and the piracy of
copyrighted American movies, music and software.  The currency dispute “is a proxy for the state of the
overall U.S.-China commercial relationship,”  William Reinsch ,
president of the Washington-based National Foreign Trade Council,
said Sept. 23 on Bloomberg Television. “I don’t think it will
have that big of an impact on the American economy.”  China Operations  Lawmakers fended off warnings from lobbyists representing
companies such as  Caterpillar Inc .,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . and
 Citigroup Inc ., who said the measure may lead to retaliation
against U.S. companies operating in China and curb exports to
the country. China may retaliate if the House passes the
legislation, said Reinsch, who represents multinational
companies such as Caterpillar.  “This could damage our efforts to ‘sell American’ and
compete successfully in the growing China market,”
Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican who heads the
Ways and Means Committee trade panel, said before the vote.  Forcing China to raise the value of its currency may create
500,000 jobs in the U.S., most in manufacturing at above-average
wages, according to  C. Fred Bergsten , director of the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington. China’s
currency, which is undervalued by as much as 25 percent, is the
most important trade issue facing the U.S., he said in testimony
last week.  Obama Meeting  Obama pressed China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  in a two-hour
meeting at the United Nations Sept. 23 to increase the yuan’s
value. Wen said this week that a 20 percent increase in the
currency would cause severe job losses and trigger social
instability in China.  “We cannot imagine how many Chinese factories will go
bankrupt, how many Chinese workers will lose their jobs,” he
said in New York on Sept. 22.  “We want to see that any legislation is consistent with
our international obligations and consistent with the World
Trade Organization and is in our interests,”  Jeff Bader ,
Obama’s director for Asian affairs, said Sept. 23. He didn’t say
if this bill meets those tests.  Levin said yesterday the measure was redrawn to be
consistent with WTO rules. It would let U.S. makers of products
petition the Commerce Department for countervailing duties on
Chinese products to compensate for the “subsidy” of a weak
currency, according to documents released by the committee.  WTO Rules  The Commerce Department rejected such an argument in cases
filed by paper and aluminum makers last month, saying that a
weak currency isn’t a subsidy to a specific industry, as
required under WTO rules. The legislation when introduced by
Representative  Tim Ryan , an Ohio Democrat, would have required
that the Commerce Department find that a weak currency is a
subsidy. Revisions crafted by Levin removed that language and
instead set out provisions intended to make such a finding more
likely.  It’s that change that won Camp’s backing. “It does not
presuppose an outcome,” he said.  Forty-four Republicans had already signed on as sponsors of
the original bill, and with Camp’s support, lobbyists said they
expect additional Republicans to vote with Democrats next week.
That could help spur the Senate to take it up before lawmakers
leave Washington to campaign for election, said  Lloyd Wood ,
spokesman for the group of unions and manufacturers fighting for
the bill.  “The bigger the vote in the House, the more pressure it
puts on the Senate,” Wood said.  Lobbyists for groups representing Wal-Mart and Citigroup
faulted the panel for approving the measure.  “Provoking tension with our trading partners doesn’t come
without costs, and we should choose our battles carefully,”
 Stephanie Lester , vice president of the Retail Industry Leaders
Association, which represents Wal-Mart, said in a statement.
“It makes little sense to enact harmful policies that will
spark a bilateral conflict over currency with one of our largest
trading partners and fastest growing markets for American
exports.”  The legislation is H.R. 2378 and S. 3134.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Larry Liebert  at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  