-- Four Japanese Held in China as Fishing Boat Tensions Escalate
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-09-24T03:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/china-japan-tensions-heighten-as-sengoku-says-four-fujita-workers-held.html
Japan said four of its citizens are
being held in China for allegedly videotaping military targets
as tensions heightened over a territorial dispute that has
damaged ties between Asia’s two biggest economies.  The four are employees of Fujita Corp., Chief Cabinet
Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said today in Tokyo. They were
visiting Hebei, China on company business unrelated to military
issues, Fujita spokesman Yoshiaki Onodera said.  The detention comes as China ratchets up pressure on Japan
to release a fishing boat captain who collided with Japanese
Coast Guard vessels near  islets  claimed by both countries. The
islands, known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese, are
in the East China Sea near natural gas fields. The two countries
signed an agreement in 2008 to jointly develop the fields that
has yet to be implemented.  “We’re confirming details, but China informed us that the
four Japanese are under investigation related to military
facility laws,” Sengoku told reporters today in Tokyo. “We
don’t think this has a link to the Senkaku issue raised by
China.”  He couldn’t confirm reports that China has cut off exports
of rare earths -- materials used in hybrid vehicles and laptop
computers -- to Japan. A Chinese government official denied the
report yesterday.  “Once we confirm the facts, we’ll respond appropriately,”
Sengoku said.  ‘Immediately and Unconditionally’  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  this week called on Japan to
“immediately and unconditionally” release the captain, saying
failure to do so would result in “further measures” being
taken. He didn’t elaborate.  Japan is China’s second-biggest trading partner after the
U.S., with two-way commerce in the first seven months of the
year rising 25 percent from the same period in 2009 to $65.2
billion, Chinese customs data show. China is Japan’s largest
trading partner, buying 10.2 trillion yen ($121 billion) of the
nation’s goods and services last year.  China surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest economy
last quarter. The Japanese nominal gross domestic product for
the second quarter totaled $1.288 trillion, less than China’s
$1.337 trillion, according to Japanese government statistics.
 Sony Corp.  and  Panasonic Corp. , the world’s two largest consumer
electronics makers, are cutting television prices in China in a
push to expand market share in the world’s second-largest market
for flat-panel TVs.  ‘Negative for China, Japan’  “It will be negative for Japan, China and the global
economy if ties between the countries with the No. 2 and No. 3
GDPs deteriorate,” Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
said today. “It’s desirable for both nations to address this
calmly.”  Sengoku two days ago proposed “high level” talks between
the two countries to ease the conflict. China rejected the
suggestion, with Foreign Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  saying
that “playing tricks to deceive the world and international
public opinion is not a way out.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged Japan and
China to resolve the issue through dialogue, as American
officials declined to step into a broader territorial dispute.  The U.S. encourages “both sides to work aggressively to
resolve” their differences “as quickly as possible,” State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday in New
York, where Clinton met with Japanese Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  on the sidelines of the United Nations General
Assembly’s annual meeting. “We don’t take a position on the
sovereignty of the Senkakus,” Crowley said.  Obama Meeting  U.S. President  Barack Obama  met separately with Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and Wen yesterday. He didn’t raise the
dispute in his meeting with the Chinese premier, said  Jeff Bader ,
Obama’s director of Asian affairs.  The diplomatic row is the most serious since 2005, when
thousands of Chinese protested Japanese textbooks that
downplayed wartime atrocities. The captain’s detention sparked a
Sept. 18 protest at Japan’s embassy in Beijing that was more
tightly controlled by police than those five years ago, when
demonstrators threw rocks at the consulate in Shanghai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  