-- Cisco Chief Chambers Says Global Economy on Verge of Productivity Increase
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-09-24T16:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/cisco-s-chambers-says-most-ceos-planning-for-0-to-2-u-s-economic-growth.html
Cisco Systems Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  John Chambers  said the global economy is on the verge of
a productivity increase, driven by collaboration and social
networking.  Companies around the world are likely to see a 7-year to
10-year increase in worker productivity, Chambers said today in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With
 Margaret Brennan .”  “Part of the reason I’m optimistic about our economy long
run is I believe we’re at the front end of a productivity shift
much like we saw from 1997 through 2004,” Chambers said.  Most chief executives Cisco talks to are planning for U.S.
economic growth of 2 percent or less this year, Chambers said.
The company dominates the market for routers and switches that
direct the flow of Internet traffic over computer networks,
making it an indicator of the health of the technology industry.  Chambers, who took over in 1995, has overseen Cisco’s
growth to a $40 billion company that’s made more than 100
acquisitions. He’s pushing Cisco into 30 new markets such as
smart grids, video-conferencing and home networking. By
promoting video cameras such as the Flip and the TelePresence
conferencing system, Cisco is trying to generate more Internet
traffic, increasing demand for its routers and switches.  Cisco , based in San Jose, California, rose 58 cents, or 2.7
percent, to $22.11 at 11:46 a.m. New York time in trading on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  Chambers, 61, has said that he wants to bring at least $30
billion in cash back to the U.S. and that tax laws make it too
expensive to do so. He’s called for a tax repatriation break,
saying Cisco will increase its U.S. headcount by 10 percent if a
favorable law is passed.  The company said this month it will initiate its first
dividend this fiscal year after facing pressure from investors.
The size and timing of the payout will depend on tax laws and
repatriation policy, because much of Cisco’s cash is abroad,
Cisco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  