-- Citigroup Increases Stock Compensation for Senior Executives
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2010-09-24T20:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/citigroup-boosts-executive-stock-awards-will-increase-pandit-s-pay-of-1.html
Citigroup Inc. , the bank 18-percent
owned by U.S. taxpayers, awarded more than $37 million in shares
to six top executives and said it plans to raise Chief Executive
Officer  Vikram Pandit ’s $1-a-year pay.  Pandit, 53, declined more compensation for 2010 as other
executives received millions of dollars in “stock salary,” or
shares that can be quickly sold, according to a statement today.
Next year, “the board intends to compensate Vikram commensurate
with the job of CEO,” the bank said in a statement.  Pandit all but eliminated his pay in 2009 following
billions of dollars of losses tied to subprime mortgages at the
New York-based bank under former CEO Charles O. “Chuck”
Prince, and a $45 billion bailout from U.S. taxpayers. Citigroup
has reported two successive profitable quarters this year, and
Pandit offered 20 units for sale to shrink the bank.  “The board is very pleased with the progress that the
management team is making in restoring Citi to profitability,”
said  Richard Parsons , the bank’s chairman. “Although we respect
Vikram’s decision again to decline salary or an incentive award
for 2010, we believe that his performance would merit a
different outcome.”  List of Recipients  John Havens , head of the bank’s institutional clients
group, would receive shares valued at $9 million on an
annualized basis, according to a regulatory filing today.  Manuel Medina-Mora , head of consumer operations for the U.S., will
receive $7.45 million.  Vice Chairman Edward J. Kelly  and  Alberto Verme , co-head of
the bank’s operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa,
will both receive $6 million annualized, according to the
filing.  John Gerspach , Citigroup’s chief financial officer, will
receive $4.17 million.  William Mills , who is Verme’s
counterpart, received $4.86 million, according to  Ed Skyler , a
bank spokesman.  Pandit told a February 2009 congressional hearing that he
would cut his own salary to $1 a year until the bank returned to
profitability. The New York-based bank reported a net profit of
$7.1 billion for the first half of 2010, compared with a $7.6
billion net loss in 2008.  The lender is giving shares that can be quickly sold, or
“stock salary,” to its 25 highest-compensated employees before
deciding how much they get in bonuses at the end of the year,
according to the statement. Citigroup’s bailout subjected it to
pay curbs developed by  Kenneth Feinberg , who capped bonuses at
one-third of the overall compensation.  The executives can begin selling the shares in monthly
installments from January next year, according to today’s
filing.  Pandit’s total compensation for 2009 was $125,001. His
total package was $38 million in 2008, during which Citigroup
reported a net loss of $27.7 billion. 