-- Citigroup Settlement With SEC on Subprime Holdings Disclosures Is Approved
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-09-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/citigroup-s-75-million-sec-subprime-settlement-is-approved-by-u-s-judge.html
Citigroup Inc. ’s $75 million
settlement over claims it failed to disclose $40 billion in
subprime-related holdings was approved by a federal judge in a
lawsuit brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  U.S. District Judge  Ellen Huvelle  in Washington said
yesterday she would sign the settlement after both sides agreed
Citigroup must continue the disclosure plan it began during the
financial crisis to ensure future SEC oversight. She told the
attorneys in court to submit new language for the settlement
within two weeks.  The judge said that she wanted to make sure there are
“procedures in place that both satisfy me and the SEC.”  Huvelle last month held off approving the settlement,
saying she was dissatisfied with the proposal and wanted more
information before making a decision. Both the bank and the SEC
filed additional papers with the court urging acceptance of
their accord.  The penalty “takes into account the seriousness of the
misconduct,” the SEC wrote in a Sept. 8 filing. “It is
sufficiently substantial to send a clear message that misleading
statements by a corporation on issues of importance to investors
cannot go unaddressed.”  The company made misstatements on earnings calls and in
filings regarding assets tied to subprime loans as the housing
crisis unfolded in 2007, the SEC said in its July 29 complaint.
Some disclosures omitted more than $40 billion in investments,
regulators said.  Aware of Losses  Responding to Huvelle’s request, the SEC identified
Citigroup officials -- including former Chief Executive Officer
 Charles O. “Chuck” Prince  and former Chairman  Robert Rubin  --
who were aware that losses were mounting in October 2007 on the
highest-rated segments of mortgage-based assets, which the
agency claims hadn’t been fully disclosed. The SEC didn’t accuse
those officials of wrongdoing.  The fact that so many executives were aware of the
disclosure and valuation process and “nonetheless did not note
the central issue identified by the commission in its complaint,
only underscores the weakness of any possible case against
additional parties,” Citigroup wrote in a Sept. 13 filing.  Citigroup was under “no obligation to say anything about
its ‘subprime exposure’” in the second and third quarters of
2007, the bank wrote. It voluntarily decided shareholders would
benefit from “a more concrete understanding” and made some
statements, it said.  Reduced Exposure  “In making these July and October disclosures, Citigroup
was among the first of its financial institution peers to
provide information of this type to the investing public,” the
bank said.  While noting changes in Citigroup’s practices, Huvelle was
concerned the agreement hadn’t required more transparency. The
initial accord only barred the bank from violating SEC rules.  “You may have the best practices there are, but I wouldn’t
know that sitting here,” she said yesterday.  Citigroup executives repeatedly stated in 2007 that the New
York-based bank had reduced its liabilities connected to
subprime mortgage securities by 45 percent to $13 billion, as
investors and analysts clamored for information about the
deteriorating market, SEC attorneys said in court filings.  ‘Subprime Exposure’  On an Oct. 15, 2007, conference call with analysts and
investors,  Gary Crittenden , then Citigroup’s chief financial
officer, said the company’s “subprime exposure” was
$13 billion at the end of the second quarter and had declined
during the third quarter.  The figure he cited omitted “super-senior” tranches of
collateralized debt obligations and financial guarantees known
as liquidity puts that allowed customers to sell debt securities
back to Citigroup if credit markets froze, the SEC said. Those
products added more than $40 billion of subprime risk that the
bank didn’t disclose to investors, the SEC said.  Crittenden, who left the bank last year, agreed to pay
$100,000 to settle claims he didn’t disclose the risk after
getting internal briefings.  Arthur Tildesley , Citigroup’s former
head of investor relations, will pay $80,000 to settle claims
that he helped draft disclosures that misled investors, the SEC
said.  Huvelle said Crittenden’s $100,000 fine is “not a
deterrent to corporate crime,” though she left that to the
SEC’s discretion.  Citigroup,  Crittenden and Tildesley  agreed to settle the
case without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations.  Taxpayer Bailout  The bank, once the world’s biggest by assets, got a
$45 billion taxpayer bailout in 2008 after losses on subprime
mortgages and collateralized debt obligations withered
confidence and almost triggered a run on deposits.  Citigroup executives, including Prince, were questioned at
an April hearing by the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission 
about whether the bank fully disclosed potential losses.  Estimates were in flux, because the subprime market was
rapidly deteriorating, Prince told the financial crisis panel.  “At the time, the financial people were working very
intensely with the fixed-income people to try to determine
exposures,” Prince said during the April 8 hearing. “This was
an unprecedented time in which markets were crashing.”  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Citigroup
Inc., 10-cv-01277, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 