-- Clinton Meets With Abbas to Salvage Talks Stymied by Israeli Settlements
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-09-25T00:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/clinton-meets-with-abbas-to-salvage-talks-stymied-by-israeli-settlements.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
met with Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  in New
York in an attempt to reach a compromise on a settlement-
construction freeze that will lapse in two days.  Clinton had a 25-minute meeting with Abbas tonight and will
see him again tomorrow, U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said.  “These discussions are pretty intense right now,”
Assistant Secretary for Near East Affairs  Jeffrey Feltman  told
reporters. “We do not like the idea of seeing either side try
to walk out of talks when negotiations should lead to the
solution that works for all.”  President  Barack Obama , in his address yesterday to the
United Nations General Assembly, reiterated his call for Israel
to extend the building moratorium in areas claimed by the
Palestinians as a way to build trust and keep the peace effort
going.  Abbas rejected any compromise that doesn’t guarantee a
“complete halt” to settlement activity by Israel, Agence
France-Presse cited his adviser,  Nabil Abu Rudeina , as saying
today.  The Palestinian leader has said the talks he started with
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  at the beginning of
this month can’t continue if construction of the settlements
resumes.  Israel backs U.S.-led efforts to find a compromise and
asked its chief negotiator,  Yitzhak Molcho , to remain in the
U.S. and continue talks, according to a senior Israeli official,
who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  The end of the West Bank settlement-building moratorium may
mean the start of construction on at least 2,066 housing units
that have the necessary permits, according to a survey by Peace
Now, a Tel Aviv-based group that opposes settlement
construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward DeMarco at 
 edemarco1@bloomberg.net  