-- Clinton Urges China-Japan `Dialogue,' Stays Neutral in Dispute
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-09-24T01:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/clinton-urges-china-japan-dialogue-stays-neutral-in-fishing-boat-spat.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
urged Japan to resolve issues with China over a detained Chinese
fishing captain through dialogue, as U.S. officials declined to
step into a broader territorial dispute.  The U.S. encourages “both sides to work aggressively to
resolve” their differences “as quickly as possible,” State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told reporters in New
York yesterday, where Clinton met with Japanese Foreign Minister
 Seiji Maehara  on the sidelines of the United Nations General
Assembly’s annual meeting.  Japan detained the captain on Sept. 7 after his boat
collided with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels near an
uninhabited island group -- known as Diaoyu in Chinese and
Senkaku in Japanese -- that is claimed by both countries. The
U.S., which is committed to the defense of Japan under a 1960
treaty, is neutral on the territorial issue.  “We don’t take a position on the sovereignty of the
Senkakus,” Crowley said.  President  Barack Obama  didn’t raise the issue when he met
yesterday in New York with Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , said  Jeff Bader , Obama’s director of Asian affairs.  The diplomatic dispute has caught the attention of the U.S.
military, which relies on Japan to provide bases and other
support for American forces. Japan is one of two security treaty
allies for the U.S. in the region, along with South Korea.  Watching Tension ‘Carefully’  “We’re watching that tension very, very carefully,” said
Navy Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
and President  Barack Obama ’s top military adviser. “Obviously
we’re very, very strongly in support of our ally in that region,
Japan,” he told reporters at the Pentagon yesterday.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , conducting a joint briefing
with Mullen, added, “We would fulfill our alliance
responsibilities.” The two leaders, who spoke in response to
questions, didn’t comment further.  Wen this week called on Japan to “immediately and
unconditionally” to release the captain, saying failure to do
so would result in “further measures” being taken. He didn’t
elaborate. China yesterday denied reports it banned the export
of rare earths that are used in hybrid cars, laptop computers
and iPhones to Japan.  The dispute prompted protests at Japan’s embassy in Beijing
on Sept. 18, as demonstrators demanded the fishing captain’s
release.  Historical Enmity  Anger over Japan’s occupation of large parts of China
during the 1937-1945 Sino-Japanese War, in which millions of
Chinese died, can erupt when political and territorial
disagreements arise.  Japan returned the boat and crew to China, while handing
the captain over to prosecutors who would decide whether to
charge him.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  said on Sept.
22 that Japan must “immediately correct its wrongdoing” by
releasing the captain to avoid further damage to relations
between the two countries.  Obama and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , in remarks to
reporters in New York yesterday after a separate meeting,
pledged closer cooperation on economic issues. Obama called
China an “outstanding partner” and said its work is
“absolutely critical” in resolving the financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  