-- CNN President Klein Leaving as Cable Network Loses Viewers to Fox, MSNBC
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-09-24T20:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/cnn-u-s-head-jon-klein-leaves-jautz-to-run-network-update1-.html
CNN, the 24-hour cable news channel
owned by  Time Warner Inc. , is replacing  Jon Klein  as head of the
U.S. network with HLN’s  Ken Jautz  after losing viewers to
competitors such as Fox News.  Klein, who ran CNN U.S. for six years, is leaving the
company,  Jim Walton , president of CNN Worldwide, wrote today in
a memo to staff.  Scot Safon , CNN Worldwide’s chief marketing
officer, will replace Jautz as executive vice president of HLN,
the CNN sister station formerly known as CNN Headline News.  CNN, once the leader in 24-hour news, is revamping its
management and lineup after viewers defected to News Corp.’s  Fox
News , now the most-watched cable news outlet, and NBC
Universal’s MSNBC. CNN hired  Piers Morgan  this month to replace
talk-show host  Larry King  and added a program with former New
York Governor  Eliot Spitzer  and Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist
Kathleen Parker.  “We thought it was important to go ahead and make the
moves before we launched these new programs,” Walton, 52, said
today on a conference call. “We didn’t want any disruption once
the programs were on the air.”  Klein, in a phone interview, said he met with Walton on
Sept. 22, and that the decision to replace him came as a
surprise. He said he’s disappointed he won’t oversee the debuts
of the new shows, anchored by talent that he unearthed.  “I respect the decision,” Klein said. “These things
happen in our business. I’ll enjoy watching those shows.”  Rebranding  Instead, it will be Jautz, 52, who must guide the new shows
to fruition and turn around domestic prime-time ratings.  “We need to be more engaging and lively and passionate and
compelling and sometimes fun in our programs,” Jautz said today
in a phone interview. “You can fault CNN for its ratings, but
you can’t fault CNN for its journalism.”  Jautz, who is assuming the title of executive vice
president of CNN/U.S., oversaw the rebranding of HLN and a more
than doubling of the channel’s prime-time ratings with the
addition of programs such as “Nancy Grace,” “Joy Behar” and
“ShowBiz Tonight.”  He “has a rich history with CNN -- as a reporter, bureau
chief, programmer and news executive -- and comes to this
position with a proven track record,” Walton said in a
statement.  Jautz also managed CNNfn, CNN Money and N-TV, a German
national news channel. He joined CNN in 1989 as bureau chief in
Germany.  New Role  CNN is trying to fill the newly created role of executive
vice president and managing editor for CNN Worldwide. This
executive will lead collaboration across all networks and
platforms, Walton said in the memo.  CNN doesn’t rank among the most-watched cable channels,
according to data from  Nielsen Co . Fox News is averaging 2.02
million viewers a night during prime time this year, ranking as
the fourth most-watched among all cable channels, according to
Nielsen.  “I don’t shy away from using the word ‘opinion,’” Jautz
said. “We should provide opinion. We should be nonpartisan and
provide opinion from all aspects of the spectrum.”  The focus on CNN’s domestic, prime-time ratings has been
frustrating because “CNN is not broken,” Walton said on the
call. He said the network is focused on driving ratings momentum
and continuing to boost profit.  Safon’s Record  Safon, 50, joined CNN Worldwide eight years ago as senior
vice president of marketing and promotion, and has since
overseen such efforts for “ Anderson Cooper  360,” “Larry King
Live” and “The Situation Room.”  Time Warner, based in New York,  rose  61 cents, or 2
percent, to $31.37 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have gained 7.7 percent this year.  CNN has discussed partnerships with broadcast news outlets
and an arrangement might be reached by May 2011, Time Warner
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bewkes  said in May.  Despite weaker ratings after the U.S. presidential election
in 2008, CNN had a record year of profitability in 2009, Time
Warner said in March. Walton said today that CNN is headed for
its seventh consecutive year of profit growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  