-- Colombia Keeps Rate at Record Low 3% to Boost Growth Amid Tame Inflation
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2010-09-24T22:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/colombia-keeps-rate-at-record-low-3-to-boost-growth-amid-tame-inflation.html
Colombia’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low for a fifth straight
month as tame inflation allowed policy makers to bolster demand
in South America’s fourth-largest economy.  The seven-member board, led by bank President  Jose Dario Uribe , held the interbank rate at a record low 3 percent,
matching the forecast of all 30 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. The government yesterday said the economy grew 4.5
percent in the second quarter from a year ago, below all but one
forecast among 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The board considers that the position of monetary policy
has contributed to economic growth without compromising the
inflation goal,” Uribe said in a statement accompanying the
decision.  At the current pace of expansion, Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry ’s estimate of 5.5 percent gross domestic
product growth in 2011 may not be possible, said Citigroup Inc.
economist  Munir Jalil  in Bogota. The government set an official
forecast of 4.5 percent.  Policy makers last month said that broad-based domestic
demand driving the economy’s rebound in the first half of 2010
had become “less evident” in the third quarter, according to
the  minutes  of their Aug. 20 meeting published Sept. 3.  “The real business cycle continues to expand, but the pace
of expansion is still quite moderate,” said  Alberto Ramos , an
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York in an e-mailed
statement. “Demand conditions do not present an immediate
challenge to the inflation outlook.”  ‘Drop in the Ocean’  The board also signaled concern that slower growth in the
U.S., Colombia’s biggest trading partner, may exacerbate a
decline in exports.  “The bank has the new economic growth numbers and will now
be looking toward any inflationary pressure next year,” said
Jalil.  Policy makers said they would coordinate with the
government ways to strengthen instruments used to intervene and
ways to drain liquidity from the market after pledging to buy at
least $20 million daily to stem a rally that pushed the peso to
the biggest gain this year.  “In a  market  of $1 billion a day, the $20 million is a
drop in the ocean,” said  Andres Jimenez , international sales
director at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest brokerage.  ‘Bold, Creative’  The bank resumed daily dollar purchases to help ease gains
in the peso for at least four months to bolster foreign
reserves. On Aug. 20, Uribe said he would  buy  dollars when
“appropriate,” after President  Juan Manuel Santos  called for
“bold and creative” action to weaken the peso.  Echeverry today said that peso purchases could be extended
beyond four months and that the board today discussed a number
of instruments and combination of strategies to address the
peso.  Santos’ predecessor,  Alvaro Uribe , repeatedly asked the
bank to curb the currency’s appreciation, which he said caused
exporters to cut jobs as a stronger peso makes Colombian exports
more expensive in dollar terms.  Among steps to drain liquidity, the bank could issue its
own debt or sell part of its government bond holdings that
amounted to 1.6 trillion pesos ($886 million) at the end of
August.  Any sale of its own debt would require coordination with
the Treasury to prevent competing with government debt sales,
said Jalil.  Leeway, Campaign Pledge  The finance minister said Sept. 15 that capital controls
aren’t being contemplated. After today’s decision, he declined
to say if controls had been discussed at the meeting.  “Echeverry highlighted that the intervention was market
friendly, which suggests to us he won’t do anything market-
unfriendly; that’s positive,” said  Jimena Zuniga , a Latin
America economist at Barclay’s Inc. in New York before today’s
meeting. “Moreover, the announced intervention already gives
them the freedom to buy more than $20 million on any given
day.”  Colombia’s peso will weaken to 1,843 per U.S. dollar by
year-end, according to the median forecast of 10 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The peso today rose 0.5 percent to 1,820.20 per dollar,
taking its 2010 gain to 13.4 percent, the best performance among
currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide.  Santos needs a weaker peso to support his pledge to achieve
6 percent GDP growth within two years and to add 2.4 million
jobs to lower Colombia’s 13.3 percent  unemployment  rate, which
is the highest in Latin America.  Echeverry plans to boost spending on infrastructure,
housing and agriculture.  Annual inflation  was 2.31 percent in August, near the five-
decade low of 1.84 percent posted in March. Economists  surveyed 
monthly by the central bank expect inflation to rise to 2.97
percent by year-end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net 
 Heather Walsh  in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ; 