-- Colombia Keeps Rate at Record Low 3% to Boost Growth Amid Tame Inflation
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 2010-09-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/colombia-may-keep-rate-at-record-low-3-to-fuel-growth-amid-tame-inflation.html
Colombia’s central bank will likely
keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low for a fifth
straight month as tame inflation allows policy makers to bolster
demand in South America’s fourth-largest economy.  The seven-member board, led by bank President  Jose Dario Uribe , will keep the interbank rate at a record low 3 percent,
according to all 30 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Policy
makers also may seek ways to drain liquidity from the market
after pledging to buy at least $20 million daily to stem a rally
that pushed the peso to the biggest gain this year.  “There won’t be any change in the rate for the rest of
2010,” said Citigroup Inc. economist  Munir Jalil  in Bogota.
“The bank has the new economic growth numbers and will now be
looking toward any inflationary pressure next year.”  The government yesterday said  gross domestic product  grew
4.5 percent in the second quarter from a year ago, lower than
all but one forecast among 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  At that level, Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry ’s
estimate of 5.5 percent GDP growth in 2011 may not be possible,
said Jalil. The government set an official forecast of
4.5 percent.  Policy makers last month said that broad-based domestic
demand driving the economy’s rebound in the first half of 2010
had become “less evident” in the third quarter, according to
the  minutes  of their Aug. 20 meeting published Sept. 3.  The board also signaled concern that slower growth in the
U.S., Colombia’s biggest trading partner, may exacerbate a
decline in exports.  ‘Drop in the Ocean’  The bank’s board may announce new measures to weaken the
currency after saying Sept. 15 it would buy dollars, said  Andres Jimenez , international sales director at Interbolsa SA,
Colombia’s biggest brokerage. It also may say how it plans to
take pesos out of the economy to avoid stoking inflation.  “In a  market  of $1 billion a day, the $20 million is a
drop in the ocean,” said Jimenez. “They could announce how
they will sterilize, but if they do that too soon they could
shoot themselves in the foot if the whole thing has been
unsuccessful.”  The bank resumed daily dollar purchases to help ease gains
in the peso for at least four months to bolster foreign
reserves. On Aug. 20, Uribe said he would  buy  dollars when
“appropriate,” after President  Juan Manuel Santos  called for
“bold and creative” action to weaken the peso.  Santos’ predecessor,  Alvaro Uribe , repeatedly asked the
bank to curb the currency’s appreciation, which he said caused
exporters to cut jobs as a stronger peso makes Colombian exports
more expensive in dollar terms.  Leeway  Among steps to drain liquidity, the bank could issue its
own debt or sell part of its government bond holdings that
amounted to 1.6 trillion pesos ($886 million) at the end of
August.  Any sale of its own debt would require coordination with
the Treasury to prevent competing with government debt sales,
said Jalil.  The finance minister said Sept. 15 that capital controls
aren’t being contemplated.  “Echeverry highlighted that the intervention was market
friendly, which suggests to us he won’t do anything market-
unfriendly; that’s positive,” said  Jimena Zuniga , a Latin
America economist at Barclay’s Inc. in New York. “Moreover, the
announced intervention already gives them the freedom to buy
more than $20 million on any given day.”  Campaign Pledge  Colombia’s peso will weaken to 1,843 per U.S. dollar by
year-end, according to the median forecast of 10 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The peso yesterday weakened 0.5 percent to 1811.57 per
dollar, paring its 2010 gain to 12.8 percent, the best
performance among currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide.  Santos needs a weaker peso to support his pledge to achieve
6 percent GDP growth within two years and to add 2.4 million
jobs to lower Colombia’s 13.3 percent  unemployment  rate, which
is the highest in Latin America.  Echeverry plans to boost spending on infrastructure,
housing and agriculture.  Annual inflation  was 2.31 percent in August, near the five-
decade low of 1.84 percent posted in March. Economists  surveyed 
monthly by the central bank expect inflation to rise to 2.97
percent by year-end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ; 