-- Santos to Meet With Obama on Security After Killing Colombia's `Bin Laden'
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-09-24T14:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/colombia-to-pursue-real-partnership-with-obama-in-meeting-santos-says.html
Colombia’s President  Juan Manuel Santos  said he will urge U.S. President Barack Obama to support
a regional strategy for curbing drug violence even as his
country anticipates “the beginning of the end of 40 years of
war” drug-funded FARC guerrillas.  Santos, who meets with Obama today for the first time since
taking office Aug. 7, told investors and business leaders in New
York last night that the killing of the rebel commander known by
his alias  Mono Jojoy  by Colombian forces this week “is going to
change our history.”  “It’s as if I came here and told New Yorkers that  Osama bin Laden  had been struck down,” Santos said about the rebel
leader’s death. “This is the beginning of the end of 40 years
of war in Colombia.”  Santos, a former defense minister, has pledged to continue
former President  Alvaro Uribe ’s policies aimed at ending
violence by the FARC and other drug-funded groups. Colombia’s
armed forces killed the rebel leader in an air and ground
assault in central Meta province, a stronghold of the insurgency
since its inception as a peasant militia in 1964.  “We are winning but we haven’t won yet,” Santos, 59, said
in New York this morning at the Council on Foreign Relations.  Kidnapping and homicides related to the South American
nation’s drug trade have fallen 92 percent and 45 percent
respectively since 2002, partly as a result of more than $7
billion in U.S. anti-narcotics and counterinsurgency aid.
Colombia is the world’s largest supplier of cocaine, responsible
for 80 percent of the drug consumed in the U.S.  Even as violence falls in Colombia, it’s been pushed
further into drug transit countries like Central America, Mexico
and the Caribbean, Santos said last night.  “We consider ourselves, as we have mentioned a great many
times, a strategic ally” of the U.S., Santos said.  Santos, a former finance and trade minister, also vowed to
appeal to Obama to adopt a free-trade accord signed by Uribe and
President George W. Bush. Obama hasn’t sent the accord to
Congress for approval because of objections from human rights
and labor groups.  Colombia is on a path of change from a “failed state” a
decade ago, enabling the government to change its agenda from
focusing on security to other priorities, Santos said.  “The difference between Colombia 10 years ago and Colombia
today is a difference of 180 degrees,” he said.  With U.S. leaders, “we don’t have to discuss drug
trafficking and violence and kidnappings and the traditional
topics that we were used to,” he said. “Now we’re sitting down
as I did with  the European countries with the rest of Latin
America talking about social development, human rights, the
environment and how to grow at higher rate, how to give our
people a better well being.”  Obama, who is scheduled to meet with Santos this afternoon
in New York, will congratulate the Colombian leader for the
military operation against Jojoy, said Ben Rhodes, Obama’s
deputy national security adviser.  “It’s obviously an extraordinary achievement for the
Colombian government that demonstrates the success of their
efforts over many years, and at great sacrifice, to expand
security in Colombia and to combat the FARC,” Rhodes said at a
briefing yesterday. “It also demonstrates, again, the importance
of our close security cooperation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 Crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  