-- India Commonwealth Games Chaos May Deter Foreign Investment, Moody's Says
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-09-24T19:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/commonwealth-games-chaos-in-new-delhi-may-deter-investors-moody-s-says.html
Moody’s Analytics Inc. , a unit of
Moody’s Corp., said India’s preparations for next month’s
Commonwealth Games may discourage investors and dent its appeal
with holidaymakers.  “Confidence in India’s infrastructure, its capacity to
organize large events, and its reputation as a tourist
destination have all been brought into question,”  Matt Robinson , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney
wrote in a note today.  India has struggled to get venues, bridges and other
infrastructure ready in time to host teams from 71 countries and
territories during the Oct. 3-14 event.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  wants to tap private
financing for at least half of the $1 trillion India needs to
build roads, ports, utilities and airports in the five years
ending March 2017 to accelerate growth in Asia’s third-biggest
economy.  “The negative publicity could deter foreign investment and
give multinational businesses considering expanding in India
reason to think twice,” said Robinson.  The buildup to the Games, which Singh had said would
highlight India’s growing economic strength, has been marred by
the collapse of a footbridge next to the main stadium, an
outbreak of dengue fever, monsoon floods and security concerns
after the Sept. 19 shooting of two Taiwanese near a mosque.  Not Perfect  “There is no major project anywhere in the world which is
concluded to perfection,” India’s Minister of Commerce and
Industry  Anand Sharma  told reporters today in Ottawa, where he
was meeting with his Canadian counterpart. “Our guests will be
welcomed and the Commonwealth games will be rejoiced and
remembered.”  Sharma said “unprecedented” rains and floods have caused
difficulties and other countries should show “understanding.”  Complaints about conditions at the athletes’ village, which
will house the teams, emerged this week. Canada, Scotland and
New Zealand delayed their arrival in India to give organizers
time to fix plumbing, wiring and furnishings.  “The fiasco is undermining the anticipated benefits of
hosting a major international sports event,” said Robinson.  Commonwealth Games Federation chief Mike Fennell said today
that “considerable improvements” had been made to the village.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  