-- Congo's `Horrifying' Rape Toll Rises to More Than 300, United Nations Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-09-24T15:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/congo-s-horrifying-rape-toll-rises-to-more-than-300-united-nations-says.html
At least 303 civilians were raped
in eastern  Democratic Republic of Congo  in a series of attacks
in July and August, a 25 percent increase over an earlier
estimate, the United Nations said.  “The total number of victims may well be higher,” the UN
Joint Human Rights Office in Congo said in an e-mailed statement
from the capital, Kinshasa, today, after publishing a
preliminary report on rebel attacks on 13 villages in North Kivu
province’s Walikale territory from July 30 to Aug. 2. Ongoing
insecurity in the region prevented investigators from completing
their work, the statement said.  The targeted nature of the attacks was “horrifying,” even
for eastern Congo, where armed groups and some elements of the
Congolese army have used rape as a military tactic since
conflict first broke out there in the mid-1990s, the UN said.  “This incident stands out because of the extraordinarily
cold-blooded and systematic way in which it appears to have been
planned and executed,” Navi Pillay, the UN High Commissioner
for Human Rights, said in the statement. “The scale and
viciousness of these mass rapes defy belief.”  At least 235 women, 52 girls, 13 men and 3 boys were raped,
and more than 900 homes were destroyed in the attacks.  Three armed groups coordinated the attacks under cover of
darkness, the report said, including a local rebel militia, the
Mai Mai Cheka, and Rwandan Hutu rebels known as the Democratic
Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, or FDLR. They were joined
by a breakaway faction of Congolese soldiers led by Emmanuel
Nsengiyumva, who was formerly allied with ethnic-Tutsi leader
 Laurent Nkunda .  Peacekeepers ‘Failed’  UN peacekeepers “failed” to prevent some of the attacks,
Atul Khare, UN deputy head of peacekeeping, told the Security
Council Sept. 7. The primary responsibility to protect the
villages should have been with the Congolese army and police
deployed in the region, he said.  Khare blamed poor infrastructure, difficult terrain,
limited communication, and insufficient resources for the
failures.  Walikale is a mountainous region in a remote, forested part
of Congo. Several armed groups, including some members of the
army, are fighting over control of mines and trade routes in the
mineral-rich area.  Trade in minerals from the region was halted Sept. 9 by
Congo’s President  Joseph Kabila  to root out the “mafia groups”
who the government said control the sector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at
   mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  