-- Cook Medical Device Opened Arteries to Prevent Leg Amputations in Study
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-09-24T15:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/cook-medical-device-to-prevent-leg-amputations-worked-in-study.html
A drug-coated stent from  Cook
Medical , the maker of devices for minimally invasive medical
procedures, was more effective than standard therapy for
patients with blockages in an upper-leg artery, a study found.  With the Cook stent, patients’ arteries reclogged in 17
percent of patients after one year compared with 33 percent of
those who underwent treatment with an artery-clearing procedure
known as angioplasty and an older type of stent, according to
the one-year study presented today at the  Transcatheter
Cardiovascular Therapeutics  meeting in Washington, D.C.  The Cook device would be the first drug-coated stent
approved in the U.S. as an alternative to bypass surgery for
treatment of  peripheral arterial disease , a condition affecting
about 12 million Americans, according to the National Institutes
of Health. Closely held Cook, based in Bloomington, Indiana, has
filed for U.S. approval of the stent and will face competition
in the $3.4 billion market from Abbott Park, Illinois-based
 Abbott Laboratories  and Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc .  “This is an important step toward reducing amputations,
bypass and repeat intervention in patients with peripheral
artery disease, which is very difficult to treat,” said  Michael
Dake , a surgeon at Stanford University Medical Center in Palo
Alto, California, and the study’s principal investigator, in a
statement.  Peripheral arterial disease occurs when plaque clogs
arteries and disrupts blood flow to the legs and other parts of
the body. Patients often have cramps and tiredness in the legs
or hips when walking. They have more than  four times  the risk of
heart attack and stroke and untreated conditions can lead to leg
amputations, according to the American Heart Association.  Bare Metal Comparison  Cook funded the study, which also compared use of the its
device with a bare-metal stent alone. By that measure, 10
percent of patients with the Cook device had a renarrowing of
their arteries that blocked blood flow compared with 27 percent
treated with a bare-metal stent, according to the study.  “We wanted to see if we can come up with a more durable
procedure that will last longer” for restoring blood flow to
the legs,  Sanjay Misra , an interventional radiologist at the
Mayo Clinic in Rochester, New York, and an investigator in the
study, said in a Sept. 16 telephone interview.  The market for peripheral artery disease products is
projected to grow 15 percent to $3.9 billion this year from $3.4
billion in 2009, said Teri Minor, a senior analyst with  Frost &
Sullivan ’s in San Antonio, Texas, in a Sept. 17 telephone
interview.  ‘New Era’  The 479-patient study is the first to test drug-coated
stents to clear blockages in the largest artery of the upper leg
and a successful outcome may “usher in a new era” for
treatment of the disease, said  Gregg Stone , director of
cardiology at  Columbia University Medical Center  in New York, in
a Sept. 14 telephone interview..  The use of stents coated with drugs to prevent the build-up
of scar tissue has become commonplace in heart surgery, and the
study looked at how effective such stents would be when used in
the leg, Dake said in a Sept. 16 telephone interview.  The most common treatment for clots in the leg is a
procedure known as balloon  angioplasty , which inserts a tiny
balloon to clear the clogged vessel. In some cases the
angioplasty is followed by placing bare-metal stents, which are
not coated with drugs, to hold open the artery in patients.  The bare-metal stents have been prone to fracture when
placed in the leg because of repeated movement and the stress of
walking, Misra said.  Zilver PTX  The Cook stent, called Zilver PTX and already sold in
Europe, does not include a layer of chemical polymers, commonly
used on drug-coated stents, to hold the medicine in place so it
can be released gradually. When used for heart stents, the
polymers may inhibit proper healing and cause long-term side
effects.  “If you could do without the polymer, that takes one less
thing out of the equation that could have a negative effect,”
Dake said.  Cook filed for U.S.  approval  for its  Zilver PTX  stent in
June for use in treating blockages in the femoral artery, a
large blood-carrying vessel that runs from the lower groin to
the thigh.  Abbott and Medronic either market or are testing stents and
inflatable-drug coated balloons for treatment of clogged leg
arteries.  “The market is pretty attractive right now,” said  Jan Wald , an analyst with Noble Financial Group, in a Sept. 17
telephone interview. “We’re starting to see companies spend
more time and focus more on this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  