-- Copper Extends Rally to Five-Month High on Weekly Inventory Drop, Dollar
-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-09-24T18:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/copper-climbs-on-increased-german-confidence-31st-weekly-stockpile-drop.html
Copper rose, extending a rally to a
five-month high, as inventories dwindled and the dollar’s slump
boosted the appeal of most commodities.  Stockpiles  monitored by the London Metal Exchange have
dropped every week since late February. A report showed the
business climate improving in Germany, the world’s third-largest
copper consumer. The greenback fell to the lowest level since
February against a basket of major currencies.  “Whatever strength copper has is coming from offshore,”
said  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated Brokerage
Services LLC in Chicago. “The continuing outgoing movement in
above-ground stocks is supportive for the market in the long
term.”  Copper futures for December delivery rose 2.75 cents, or
0.8 percent, to settle at $3.618 a pound at 1:22 p.m. on the
Comex in New York. Earlier, the price reached $3.636, the
highest level for a most-active contract since April 15. The
metal gained 2.7 percent this week.  The metal has gained 34 percent in the past year as
manufacturing increased in China, the biggest user. The U.S. is
the second-largest consumer.  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials rose to
the highest level since January.  “We’ve got a weaker dollar that’s helping metals and
commodities rally,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market
strategist at Lind-Waldock in Chicago.  Copper for delivery in three months rose $60, or 0.8
percent, to $7,945 ($3.60 a pound) a metric ton on the LME.
Aluminum, lead and nickel also gained. Tin and zinc fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  