-- Cowboys Face `Identity Crisis' as 0-3 Start to Season Looms, Sanders Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2010-09-24T16:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/cowboys-face-identity-crisis-as-0-3-start-to-season-looms-sanders-says.html
The Dallas Cowboys are off to their
worst start in nine years and will try to avoid falling to 0-3, 
a record that’s never led to a Super Bowl championship.  After beginning the season tied as the second-favorite
among Las Vegas oddsmakers to win the National Football League
title, Dallas has totaled two offensive touchdowns in losses to
the Washington Redskins and Chicago Bears. The Cowboys are
three-point underdogs for their Sept. 26 game in Houston against
the 2-0 Texans.  “They’re having an identity crisis right now and
offensively they’re not in sync whatsoever,”  Deion Sanders , a
first-year Pro Football Hall of Fame candidate who spent five
seasons in Dallas, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview airing
today. “They could very easily be 0-3 after this weekend.”  No team has won a Super Bowl title following an 0-3 start.
Since the NFL playoffs expanded to the current 12-team format in
1990, three of 103 teams to open 0-3 have made the postseason.  This season’s Super Bowl will be played in the Cowboys’
$1.2 billion stadium built by owner  Jerry Jones .  No team has played for the Super Bowl at home, and Dallas
is seeking to become only the sixth host to make the postseason.
The Cowboys reached the playoffs three of the past four years.  “When you lose two games, everything is a problem,”
Cowboys defensive end  Marcus Spears  told reporters two days ago.
“People start feeling like the mountain is falling, so they run
and duck for cover. But sometimes you have to stand there and
take the heat until you dig your way out.”  0-2 Start  While the Cowboys are one of eight 0-2 teams in the NFL,
the Texans are among eight to win two straight games.  Houston won for the second time in 17 tries against the
Indianapolis Colts in its season-opener and rallied from a 17-
point second-half deficit against Washington last week before
winning on a field goal in overtime.  “The attitude around here is totally different,” Texans
receiver  Andre Johnson  said. “But at the same time, we were in
this position before. We were 2-0 (in 2007) and ended up losing
five games in a row. So we’ll just focus on this job that we
have to get done on Sunday.”  The Texans have won a franchise-record six straight games
dating back to last season, and their offense -- led by Johnson,
quarterback  Matt Schaub  and running back  Arian Foster  -- leads
the NFL this year in total yards and scoring.  Cowboys quarterback  Tony Romo  leads the NFL with 98 passing
attempts, 13 more than any other player. Sanders said that
statistic is an indication that the Cowboys aren’t well-balanced
offensively and are forced to throw the ball so much because
they’re constantly playing from behind.  ‘Inept Offense’  “The ineptness of the (Dallas) offense is putting a lot of
pressure on the defense,” Sanders said. “And now they’re
facing a Houston Texans team that’s on fire. They’re going to
Houston and facing one of the most prolific passing games and
receiving corps in the league. It’s a tough one.”  In 44 previous Super Bowls, three teams have rebounded from
0-2 starts to win the title: the 1993 Cowboys, 2001 New England
Patriots and 2007 New York Giants.  “There’s a great sense of urgency,” Romo told reporters
after practice this week. “This is not where you want to be
after two games. We understand that you are only afforded so
many opportunities. It’s disappointing and frustrating, but the
only way to get out of this hole is to go out, play well and
win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  