-- Credit Union Cleanup in U.S. to Cost as Much as $9.2 Billion
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-09-24T22:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/credit-union-cleanup-in-u-s-to-cost-as-much-as-9-2-billion.html
Credit unions in the U.S. may
absorb as much as $9.2 billion in losses over the next decade as
the industry strives to recover from sour investments in real
estate and consumer loans, U.S. regulators said today.  Part of the plan to resolve the credit unions’ financial
problems includes the National Credit Union Administration
packaging $50 billion in distressed securities for sale as $35
billion in bonds carrying government guarantees, the agency said
today. The debt will be backed primarily by bonds tied to home
loans, with the first sale scheduled for next month.  The NCUA already sold more liquid securities from two
 credit  unions that failed last year: U.S. Central Federal Credit
Union in Lenexa, Kansas and Western Corporate Federal Credit
Union in San Dimas, California. The administration said today
that it assumed control of Members United Corporate Federal
Credit Union of Warrenville, Illinois; Southwest Corporate
Federal Credit Union of Plano, Texas; and Constitution Corporate
Federal Credit Union of Wallingford, Connecticut.  “Up until this point we’ve been doing stabilizing
actions,” Larry Fazio, NCUA’s deputy executive director, said
in a telephone interview. “We’ve pumped some liquidity into
these institutions. Our resolution is going to be the exit from
these government programs.”  Repaying Treasury  Proceeds from selling securities that belonged to
institutions in conservatorship will go to help repay $10
billion in U.S. Treasury loans used to prop up the credit
unions, Fazio said.  The regulator sold $800 million in commercial-mortgage
backed securities from seized institutions earlier this week.
Barclays Capital managed the sale, according to a person
familiar with the transaction who declined to be identified
because terms weren’t public. Typical CMBS offerings are backed
by loans on hotels, office buildings, rental apartments or
shopping centers.  The NCUA, which insures accounts of 90 million credit union
members, estimated ultimate industry losses of $7 billion to
$9.2 billion based on expected writedowns from the securities
portfolio and other costs of managing the troubled corporate
credit unions. To recoup those costs over the next 10 years, it
will levy a special assessment on the credit union industry.  NCUA is also creating bridge institutions to handle the
“good bank” and “bad bank” sides of the seized firms. About
$65 billion in assets will be funneled into the stronger of the
two, while the “bad bank” is used to sell bonds backed by the
$50 billion in distressed securities.  Asset Values  The offering is over-collateralized, meaning the assets are
worth more than the debt on them, and any losses or gains from
the underlying will be borne by the government, the regulator
said.  “We’re doing this without any cost to the taxpayers,”
NCUA Chairwoman  Debbie Matz  said in a telephone interview ahead
of today’s announcement. The agency’s actions have headed off
$40 billion in possible costs from liquidating the distressed
securities and dealing with follow-on failures of other
institutions, she said.  By law, the NCUA has seven years to recoup losses and
Treasury has already granted a three-year extension.  Fazio said he expects credit unions will pay a 10-basis-
point assessment on assets, which will be paid for out of the
30- to 60-basis point return that most credit unions earn.  “The vast majority of credit unions are still considered
very well capitalized,” Fazio said.  Mortgage Bonds  The new bond issues will be comprised primarily of debt
linked to residential mortgages. The pool includes $34 billion
in securities backed by home loans. An additional $5.45 billion
is tied commercial-property debt and $8 billion is linked to
student loans and other household borrowing, NCUA said.  The program is similar to one the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. is using to dispose of assets from failed banks.
The FDIC, which in March raised cash in the bond market for the
first time since the early 1990s, sold $1.5 billion of bonds
tied to home loan securities that month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  