-- Cruise Industry Rebound May Give Boost to San Francisco Economy
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/cruise-ship-industry-s-rebound-may-give-boost-to-san-francisco-s-economy.html
When  Crystal Cruises Inc.  last came
to San Francisco in 2005, the industry was booming. Eighty-four
ships carrying more than 200,000 passengers, a record at the
time, passed under the Golden Gate Bridge. Even more visitors
arrived by ship the following year.  Things haven’t been as good since, with forces ranging from
swine flu to recession curbing demand. Only 41 ships are
 scheduled  to make calls in San Francisco this year, the fewest
since 2001.  Now, as the economy rebounds from the recession, travelers
are again spending money on cruises. Next year is looking
better, said Peter Dailey, deputy director of the  Port of San
Francisco ’s maritime department.  “I think there is some light at the end of the tunnel,”
he said. “We have more calls next year. We have some high-end
products.”  Next year’s calendar already has 57 ships planning to dock
in San Francisco, port officials say. That would be a 39 percent
increase from this year. Los Angeles-based Crystal Cruises,
whose luxury liners offer penthouse rooms with private verandas
for $56,000 a trip, is leading the surge by returning with more
than a dozen trips.  The recession was only the latest event in the past several
years to scare away passengers, according to Dailey.  Broader Recovery  “Cruising is an expense that you don’t have to do when
you’re worried about making your house payment,” he said. “A
couple of years ago we had the H1N1 virus, that had an impact.
We had drug wars in Mexico, that had an impact. The Alaskan
voters put on a $50 per-passenger head cost, that had an impact.
Fuel costs in 2008, that had an impact. It all adds to this
mix.”  The number of cruise ship  passengers  to visit San Francisco
more than tripled between 2001 and 2006, when it peaked at
223,615. Since then, the number has slid 46 percent to an
estimated 120,000 passengers this year.  The revival is part of a broader recovery for the industry.
Carnival Corp., the world’s biggest cruise-ship operator, raised
its fiscal 2010 earnings forecast this week, citing lower fuel
costs and strengthening ticket prices. Its shares have gained 16
percent this year.  The world’s second-largest cruise operator,  Royal Caribbean
Cruises Ltd. , raised its 2010 profit forecast in July, thanks to
cost controls and the addition of its biggest passenger ship.
The company’s stock has jumped 20 percent this year.  Princess Plans  “Cruise traffic was on a growth curve since the beginning
of the decade, pretty much until 2009 when it took a big dip,
and is taking an even bigger dip this year,” said Oivind
Mathisen, editor and publisher of New York-based  Cruise Industry
News . “I’m sure the ships will return once the conditions
change. But these are things that are beyond the control of the
port and the cruise industry as a whole.”  Florida is the center of U.S. cruising, with almost 60
percent of all U.S. embarkations in 2009, according to the
Cruise Lines International Association. California’s ports --
Los Angeles, Long Beach, San Diego and San Francisco -- boarded
14 percent of all U.S. cruise passengers, the association said.  Princess Cruises , based in Santa Clarita, California, is
San Francisco’s most frequent visitor, with 20 calls this year.
It plans to increase that figure next year, spokeswoman Karen
Candy said in an e-mailed statement.  Biggest Industry  San Francisco’s tourism industry is the city’s largest
private-sector employer, with cruises adding an average of
152,000 people to the city’s visitors lists annually since 2000.
Both the number of overall visitors and the amount they spent
decreased last year, as the global recession dampened travel.  The city hosted 15.4 million out-of-towners, a 5.8 percent
drop from 2008. Those travelers spent $7.8 billion, a 7.8
percent decline, according to the  San Francisco Convention and
Visitors Bureau .  The recession lasted from December 2007 until June 2009,
making it the longest slump since the Great Depression, the
National Bureau of Economic Research said this week.  Some of the larger ships that use the city’s port as a home
base can give a $1 million economic boost to the region, Dailey
said.  “People are flying in from all around the world to get on
the ships here,” he said. “You can see it on the days when we
have cruise ships in port -- just the traffic on the
Embarcadero, people walking up and down the street.”  New Cruise Terminal  To encourage more visitors, the city is building a new
cruise terminal at Pier 27 that’s set to open in 2014. The
project will include a 2-acre public plaza and onshore power
hookups, so cruise ships can run emission-free while in port.  “We’ve been wooing the cruise lines pretty heavily the
past couple of years,” Dailey said. “Tourism is San
Francisco’s leading industry. It’s a natural fit for us, as a
maritime city with a maritime history.”  The port’s Piers 30-32, where cruise ships now occasionally
dock, also may be rebuilt with a visitors’ center and
amphitheater if the city is chosen to host the next America’s
Cup sailing championship in 2013.  For Crystal Cruises, the return to San Francisco pairs well
with its customers’ preferences, said Bill Smith, senior vice
president of sales and marketing. He considers the city “an
international destination.”  “People from all over the world like San Francisco,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  