-- Cuba Lays Out Redesign of Economy to Boost Private Workforce, Enterprise
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-09-24T20:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/cuba-lays-out-redesign-of-economy-to-boost-private-workforce-enterprise.html
Cuba’s government released details
of its plan to “redesign” the island’s largely state-run
economy to allow more private enterprise, including easing of
restrictions on home and car rentals and guidelines for an
anticipated boom in the private sector job market.  The government set out its  plans  in the Communist Party
newspaper Granma today after announcing last week it will
dismiss 500,000 state workers, affecting 10 percent of the
workforce, by March as the island faces its worst economic slide
since the former Soviet Union ended support in the 1990s.  The measures aim to boost supply of goods and services,
create new income for Cubans and “allow the state to shake off
a good part of the burden of excessive subsidies,” Granma
reported.  Granma listed 178 job fields that will be allowed, from
wine makers to public bathroom janitors, and said the central
bank may offer micro-credits to new entrepreneurs.  Cubans will be allowed to employ people other than family
members in 83 of those fields, creating new boss-employee
relationships, Granma reported, citing interviews with  Economy
Minister  Marino Murillo Jorge and Deputy Labor Minister Admi
Valhuerdi Cepero.  Cubans who live overseas will be permitted to let third
parties rent out their cars. Cubans will be allowed to rent
their homes to travelers with fewer restrictions and can hire
staff to manage the business for the first time.  Seafood and Beef  Restrictions were also eased on so-called “ paladares ,” or
small restaurants run out of homes, which can now have more
guests and offer seafood and beef.  The government employs about 84 percent of the workforce.
It will be “very difficult” to ease the transition as the
number of self-employed more than doubles to 400,000 within six
months, said Carmelo Mesa-Lago, a Cuba economics expert and
professor at the University of Pittsburgh.  Tax of 36 percent to 65 percent on private-sector incomes
may discourage new employment, drive workers into the informal
sector and create unrest, Mesa-Lago said in a telephone
interview.  Raul Castro , 79, has initiated measures to open the economy
since his brother Fidel began handing over power in 2006.  Looser Controls  In August the government loosened controls that prohibited
Cubans from selling their own fruit and vegetables. It also
eased property laws, extending lease periods to 99 years from 50
years for foreign investors in an effort to build up the tourism
infrastructure and draw more visitors to the Caribbean island of
11.4 million people.  Cubans can now run private taxi companies, own mobile
phones and operate their own barber shops.  The state still controls 90 percent of the economy, paying
salaries of about $20 a month in addition to free rationed food
staples and health care, and nearly free housing and
transportation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Granada, Nicaragua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  