-- Cuomo Has 19-Point Lead in Race for New York State Governor, Marist Says
-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-09-24T18:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/cuomo-has-19-point-lead-in-race-for-new-york-state-governor-marist-says.html
Democrat  Andrew Cuomo  has a 19-
percentage point lead among likely voters in New York in his bid
for governor against Republican  Carl Paladino , according to a
Marist College poll.  Fifty-two percent favor Cuomo, the state’s attorney
general, compared with 33 percent for Paladino, Marist College
 said  today.  Rick Lazio , the Conservative Party candidate, has
the backing of 9 percent, the poll showed.  Marist’s poll is the fourth in five days showing a lead for
Cuomo. Three of them registered leads of at least 16 points; a
Sept. 22 Quinnipiac University poll that excluded Lazio showed
Cuomo 6 points up.  “Andrew Cuomo is ahead, and right now, this is not a close
race,”  Lee M. Miringoff , director of the Marist College
Institute for Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie, New York, said in
a statement.  Marist’s telephone survey of 915 registered voters, 617 of
whom said they were likely to vote, was conducted Sept. 19-22.
The poll’s margin of error is plus or minus 4 percentage points
for the likely voters.  In May, when Marist last  polled  residents about the
contest, Cuomo led Paladino 67 percent to 22 percent in a match-
up that didn’t include Lazio.  Spate of Surveys  On Sept. 20,  Rasmussen Reports  said 54 percent of 500
likely voters favored Cuomo; Paladino had 38 percent.  Two days later, Sept. 22, Quinnipiac’s survey showed Cuomo
ahead by 6 percentage points. Quinnipiac  polled  registered
voters who said they were likely to cast a ballot, and didn’t
include Lazio in questions about their choices.  Yesterday, a  Siena Research Institute  poll showed Cuomo
backed by 57 percent of registered voters, with 24 percent for
Paladino and 8 percent for Lazio.  Cuomo, the 52-year-old son of former Governor Mario Cuomo,
has been attorney general since 2007. The percentage of
registered voters who said Cuomo is doing an “excellent” or
“good” job as attorney general dipped in today’s poll to 56 from
64 in May.  Taking a Swing  Paladino, 64, is a Buffalo real-estate developer and Tea
Party supporter. He won an upset Sept. 14 in the Republican
primary, beating Lazio, the candidate selected by party leaders.
With an “I’m Mad as Hell” slogan, he has promised to clean up
Albany with “a baseball bat” and to cut taxes 10 percent and
spending 20 percent in his first year as governor.  Lazio, a former U.S. representative who won the
 Conservative Party ’s primary Sept. 14, will remain its
candidate, Chairman  Michael Long  said in a telephone interview.  He said he preferred Lazio to Paladino “because Carl’s
campaign approach is more like ripping down the building, and my
style is to reconstruct the building and get the foundation in
on a firm footing.”  Miringoff, of Marist, said Cuomo “is being bolstered by
the Lazio factor, but he is just above 50 percent among likely
voters, and you can’t overlook the enthusiasm Republicans are
bringing to this election cycle.”  Enthusiasm Gap  In the school’s poll, registered Republicans expressed more
enthusiasm about voting in November than did Democrats. Fifty-
one percent of Republicans said they were “very enthusiastic,”
compared with 34 percent of Democrats and 31 percent of
unaffiliated voters.  Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans in New York by
5.79 million to 2.91 million,  according  to the Board of
Elections.  Cuomo fared best in New York City and its suburbs, Marist
said.  Sixty-five percent of likely voters in the most-populous
U.S. city said they planned to vote for him, compared with 23
percent for Paladino and 6 percent for Lazio. Cuomo and Paladino
were tied among likely upstate voters, with each receiving 43
percent. Seven percent said they will vote for Lazio.  In the primary against Lazio, Paladino won in 51 of 62
counties, while losing in all five boroughs of New York City. Of
the 11 southernmost counties, he won in two.  That disparity is consistent with history, according to
Justin Phillips, assistant professor of political science at
Columbia University in New York. Republicans have fared better
upstate and Democrats downstate, he said.  Paladino will have to do better in the southern part of the
state to win in November, he said.  “You can’t just be a regional candidate and win statewide
in New York,” Phillips said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esme E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  