-- Daimler to Cut Costs With 7 Billion-Euro Refinancing
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-09-24T13:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/daimler-said-to-offer-60-basis-points-over-benchmark-on-9-3-billion-loan.html
Daimler AG , the world’s second-
biggest luxury carmaker, is cutting borrowing costs with a 7
billion-euro ($9.4 billion) credit line to refinance debt, three
people familiar with the deal said.  Daimler is offering lenders an initial interest margin at
60 basis points more than benchmark lending rates for the five-
year revolving credit, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. That compares
with a margin of 160 basis points for a credit line it agreed
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growing car sales in the U.S. and China are helping the
Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker negotiate better borrowing
terms. The company in July raised its 2010 operating profit
forecast to 6 billion euros from 4 billion euros.  “Lenders are slashing loan pricing on Daimler after a
massive turnaround in the company’s balance sheet in the past 12
months,” said  Frank Hussing , a Frankfurt-based credit analyst
at Commerzbank AG. “It’s now a very solid credit well
prepared for any potential downturn. We also see a good chance
of a credit rating upgrade or more positive rating outlook.”  Credit Risk Falls  Daimler’s loan spread has fallen by almost two-thirds in
the past year while the five-year credit-default swaps, which
protect investors from losses on the company’s debt, declined to
an average of 92 basis points this month from 128 basis points a
year ago, according to data provider CMA. A basis point on a
credit-default swap protecting 10 million euros of debt from
default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Daimler recorded a net loss of 2.64 billion euros in 2009
and had to cut spending by 5.3 billion euros by building fewer
vehicles. It raised 1.95 billion euros through a share sale to
Abu Dhabi, making the emirate its biggest investor.  The owner of the Mercedes and Maybach nameplates offered
lenders a 15 basis-point fee if it uses more than one-third of
the credit line, and 30 basis points if it uses more than two-
thirds, said the people. The facility also pays a commitment fee
equivalent to 35 percent of the interest margin, which will move
depending on Daimler’s credit rating, the people said. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Daimler spokesman  Florian Martens  declined to comment.
Deutsche Bank AG, Societe Generale SA and UniCredit SpA are
coordinators of the refinancing, Bloomberg data show.  The automaker has about $9 billion of credit lines expiring
next year, according to the company’s  earnings report .  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings rank Daimler’s debt
BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade. Moody’s Investors
Service rates it a level higher at A3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  