-- David Jones Ex-CEO McInnes Denies Charges He Sexually Harassed Publicist
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-09-24T08:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/david-jones-ex-ceo-mcinnes-denies-charges-he-sexually-harassed-publicist.html
David Jones Ltd. ’s former Chief
Executive Officer  Mark McInnes  denied that he sexually harassed
publicist Kristy Fraser-Kirk and said he tried to kiss her at a
party after she made comments of a sexual nature.  McInnes and the company filed their statements of defense
today in Sydney Federal Court in response to allegations of
sexual harassment from Fraser-Kirk, who is seeking A$37 million
($35 million) in punitive damages.  Fraser-Kirk, 27, sued last month claiming McInnes, 45, made
unwelcome sexual advances at two company functions, including
putting his hand under her clothing and trying to kiss her.
McInnes also repeatedly invited Fraser-Kirk to Bondi, where he
owns an apartment, with the implication that it would be for
sexual intercourse, Fraser-Kirk said in her complaint.  Fraser-Kirk “made comments of a sexual nature” at a June
7 function, according to court papers filed on McInnes’s behalf,
“in response to which he attempted to kiss her.”  David Jones also denied any wrongdoing in its statement of
defense. After the first function on May 23, Fraser-Kirk told
her supervisors “in a lighthearted and jovial tone and without
complaining” that McInnes had asked her out for a drink, the
company said. She didn’t complain until June 9, it added.  Italian Restaurant  McInnes said he invited Fraser-Kirk for a drink to North
Bondi Italian, a restaurant in the beach-front suburb, and
denied there was any implication of sexual intercourse.  Anthony McClellan , a spokesman for Fraser-Kirk, said she
wouldn’t comment on the defense documents filed today.  Prior to the filing of the court papers, Federal Court
 Judge Geoffrey Flick  put off a hearing on a request by Fraser-
Kirk’s lawyers to keep secret the identities of other women who
complained of sexual harassment at David Jones and Black &
Decker Corp., where McInnes worked from 1989 to 1991.  Flick agreed to hold the hearing Sept. 27, after  Kate
Eastman , David Jones’s lawyer, complained she didn’t have time
to read documents Fraser-Kirk’s lawyers planned to use at the
hearing.  Flick said he was troubled with the prospect of not
revealing the identities of the accusers.  McInnes is “being denied the opportunity to have his say
because he doesn’t know who is making the allegations,” Flick
said at today’s hearing.  McInnes “will get to have his say,” Fraser-Kirk’s lawyer,
Rachel Francois, replied. She said what McInnes has been saying
so far has been “very misleading.”  Fraser-Kirk’s claim for punitive damages of 5 percent of
the company’s  profit  and McInnes’s earnings from 2003 to 2010
amounts to about A$37 million, which she says will be given to
charity.  McInnes resigned in June, following Fraser-Kirk’s
complaints.  The case is between Kristy Anne Fraser-Kirk and David Jones
Ltd. 964-2010. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  