-- Decathlon Gives Merrill's Katz Chance to Honor Deceased Mother
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   [ ]
-- 2010-09-24T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/decathlon-gives-merrill-lynch-s-katz-chance-to-honor-mom-he-lost-to-cancer.html
Adam Katz, a financial adviser at
 Bank of America Corp .’s Merrill Lynch unit, was unaware he had a
personal connection to cancer when he signed up for a  charity
decathlon  in April to determine Wall Street’s best athlete.  Two hours after having lunch with organizers of the Oct. 10
event, Katz received a call from his father with news that his
mother, Roberta, had stage four lung cancer. She died in August,
3 1/2 months after the initial diagnosis.  “The fact that she’s not going to be there to see this, I
probably still haven’t gotten my head around it,” Katz, 34,
said in a telephone interview from his office at the  World
Financial Center  in Manhattan. “But you can imagine my resolve
to compete, do well and raise the maximum amount of money has
only gotten stronger.”  This is the second year for  The Decathlon , which pits
traders, bankers and advisers in a competition designed to crown
Wall Street’s top athlete and raise $1 million for  Lance Armstrong’s   LiveStrong Foundation  to fund cancer research.  The inaugural event, held last year, was won by  Kyle Peterson , then a first-year associate at Sage View Capital LP.
Peterson, 25, will face added competition when he seeks to
defend his title. Organizers plan to have 150 entrants this
year, up from 30 in 2009.  Raising Money, Awareness  “The cause kind of undermines any pressure,” Peterson,
whose father Craig has late-stage prostate cancer, said in a
telephone interview on his way to work in Greenwich,
Connecticut. “I’m just excited to get out competing, raise
money and raise awareness.”  The American Cancer Society projects that 569,490 people in
the U.S. will die of cancer this year -- more than 1,500 every
day. The National Institutes of Health estimated that the direct
medical cost to fight the disease in 2010 is $102.8 billion.  The Decathlon, which is still accepting entries through its
 website , is only open to those working in the financial services
industry. Some firms with entrants are Bank of America,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. ,  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Citigroup Inc. ,  Barclays Plc 
and  UBS AG .  While the 10-event competition features runs at three
different distances, that’s where its similarity to the Olympic
decathlon ends. Pull-ups, a football throw, an agility drill and
bench press also are part of the one-day contest, which will be
held at the  Mitchel Athletic Complex  in Uniondale, Long Island.  Donors can promise a fixed amount per repetition -- $10 per
pull-up, for example -- and the decathlon also features
performance-based pledging. The second option allows donors to
“bet” on a competitor’s performance and harnesses Wall
Street’s trading culture, said co-founder David Maloney, a
former financial adviser at  Morgan Stanley .  ‘Undeniable Enthusiasm’  “There’s an undeniable enthusiasm within the financial
services community for placing a value on an expected outcome,”
said Maloney, 31, who organizes the competition with Marc
Hodulich, his former track teammate at Auburn University in
Auburn, Alabama.  “Being able to donate various amounts based upon how many
pull-ups some guy does should make The Decathlon that much more
exciting,” Maloney said. “A 50-yard football throw versus a
49-yard football throw could be a difference of $1,000 in
donations.”  Katz said he’s had 76 people make pledges and is targeting
a donation total of $18,000, a figure he chose in recognition of
his Jewish background. According to Hebrew numerology, the
number 18 symbolizes “chai,” the word for life, and monetary
gifts in multiples of $18 are common in the faith.  Financial Adviser  Katz helps manage about $2 billion as a financial adviser
within Merrill Lynch’s private banking and investment group,
which serves individuals and foundations with a net worth of
more than $10 million.  He’s also a former sprinter and long jumper at Brandeis
University in Waltham, Massachusetts, whose weight ballooned to
206 pounds on his 5-foot-8 frame because of a sedentary
lifestyle. Two years ago, Katz realized he had to make a change
when he found himself out of breath trying to chase down his
son, who at the time was about 3 years old.  After two months of running and exercise, he lost 40 pounds
and 11 inches off his waist. He also got his taste for
competition back and last year won a New York amateur
championship in arm wrestling.  While Katz missed the 2009 debut of The Decathlon, he made
sure he wouldn’t be left out this year by signing up six months
in advance. During their lunch in May, Maloney -- whose mother
is a breast cancer survivor -- asked Katz about his experiences
with the disease.  The Call  “I said, ‘I don’t have the same connection you do, but I
love the competitiveness of this event,’” Katz said. “Two
hours later, I got the call from my dad.”  As his mom’s condition deteriorated, Katz learned from his
father that his connections to cancer were deeper than he
realized. His maternal grandfather died of stomach cancer in
1950 and his maternal grandmother succumbed to ovarian cancer in
1977.  “My dad’s big comment, which really drove home to me my
passion for this event, is that he can’t believe in all these
years very little progress has been made,” Katz said. “I think
I naively felt that a lot has been done. This really sort of
slapped me in the face and said a lot still needs to be done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  