-- Demand for U.S. Capital Goods Rebounds as Spending Holds Up
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-09-24T20:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/demand-for-u-s-capital-goods-rebounds-as-spending-by-businesses-holds-up.html
Orders  for U.S. capital equipment
rebounded in August, signaling business investment is holding up
better than some economists projected.  Bookings for goods like computers and communications gear
climbed 4.1 percent after a 5.3 percent decline in July that was
smaller than previously estimated, according to figures from the
Commerce Department issued today in Washington. Another report
showed sales of new homes last month held at the second-lowest
level on record, indicating housing remains depressed.  Stocks rallied, sending benchmark indexes to the highest
levels since May, as economists at banks like Morgan Stanley in
New York raised forecasts for  business spending  on new equipment
this quarter. The figures may ease concern at the Federal
Reserve after policy makers this week cited the investment
slowdown in announcing they were willing to take more steps to
spur growth.  “This is reassuring news,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S.
economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York. “Capital goods
spending still seems to be on a very solid underlying trend.”  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  rose 2.1 percent to
1,148.67 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The S&P Supercomposite
 Machinery Index , which includes companies like Caterpillar Inc.
and Deere & Co., climbed 3.3 percent. Treasury securities fell
as the report discouraged speculation the Fed will boost
purchases of U.S. debt.  Plane Orders  Total orders  for durable goods dropped 1.3 percent,
depressed by a 10 percent decrease in transportation gear like
airplanes and automobiles that is often volatile.  Boeing Co. ,
the world’s second-biggest commercial-plane maker, said it
received 10 orders last month, compared with 130 in July.
Industry data may not correlate with the government statistics
on a month-to-month basis.  Economists projected total durable-goods orders would fall
1 percent, according to the median of 72 forecasts in a
 Bloomberg survey . Estimates ranged from a drop of 3.2 percent to
a 2 percent increase.  Bookings excluding transportation equipment rose 2 percent,
twice as much as the  median forecast  of economists surveyed.  John Chambers , chief executive officer of Cisco Systems
Inc., the largest maker of networking equipment, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret
Brennan” that economic conditions appeared “a little bit
bumpy.”  Back to ‘Normal’  “What we’ve always said is we saw the market returning to
more normal growth rates,” Chambers said. Most chief executives
Cisco talks to are projecting U.S. growth of 2 percent or less,
“and that means they’ll also spend appropriately and also hire
appropriately.”  Sales  of new homes were unchanged at a 288,000 annual rate
last month, matching July as the second-lowest in data going
back to 1963, another report from the Commerce Department
showed. Purchases were forecast to increase to a 295,000 pace
from a previously estimated 276,000, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “There is no upside momentum in housing, period,” said
 Eric Green , chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in New
York, who correctly forecast the level of sales. “Unemployment
is so high, consumer confidence is so low, household wealth is
eroded and the psychology remains negative.”  New-home sales are counted at the time a contract is
signed, making them a leading indicator of demand.  Spending Profits  The economic recovery that began in June 2009 may continue
to depend on gains in manufacturing as companies use a surge in
 profits  to replace outdated equipment.  FedEx Corp. , the second-largest U.S. package-shipping
company, plans to boost capital spending to $3.5 billion this
fiscal year from $2.8 billion the prior year, Chief Financial
Officer  Alan B. Graf  said in a Sept. 16 teleconference with
investors and analysts. The Memphis, Tennessee-based company is
buying more fuel-efficient aircraft to lower costs and “support
projected long-term volume growth,” he said.  The durable-goods report prompted economists at Morgan
Stanley to raise their estimate for third-quarter growth in
business investment in equipment and software to 11.5 percent
from 5 percent and to boost their forecast for economic growth
by a half percentage point. Business spending surged at a 25
percent rate last quarter, the biggest gain since 1983.  Three-Month Gain  Last month’s 4.1 percent increase in orders for non-defense
capital goods excluding aircraft, a proxy for future business
investment, brought the gain over the past three months to a 15
percent annual pace compared with 24 percent in the three months
ended in July.  Shipments  of those items, used in calculating gross
domestic product, increased 1.6 percent after rising 0.1 percent
in July, today’s report showed. The July figure was originally
reported as a drop.  “The pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed
in recent months,” the Fed said Sept. 21 after its latest
policy meeting. “Business spending on equipment and software is
rising, though less rapidly than earlier in the year.”  Other measures of manufacturing have shown a slowdown.
Factories in the  New York region  expanded in September at the
slowest pace this year, while those in the Philadelphia area
contracted for a second month, according to regional Fed
surveys.  Manufacturing  output nationwide grew 0.2 percent in
August following a 0.7 percent July gain, the Fed said last
week.  President  Barack Obama  this month proposed a package of
$180 billion in business tax breaks and infrastructure spending
to boost spending and job growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  