-- Dighton Capital Management Seeks Partner in Asia, Aims to Double Assets
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-09-24T05:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/dighton-capital-mangement-seeks-partner-in-asia-aims-to-double-assets.html
Dighton Capital Management , a
Geneva-based hedge-fund firm that runs managed futures
strategies, aims to double the assets of its funds to $500
million in the next two years with the help of an Asian partner.  Dighton, which has $250 million in three hedge funds, is
seeking an alliance with a financial institution in Asia that
would market its funds in the region, said Edward Gurary, the
firm’s chief executive officer, declining to elaborate further.  “We’re seeing very strong and increased demand from the
region in managed futures funds,” Gurary, 45, said in an
interview in Tokyo today. He said inquiries from Japan and other
Asian nations about Dighton’s funds have increased by 50 percent
this year from last year.  Dighton joins overseas hedge funds including  Man Group Plc 
looking to tap rising wealth in the world’s fastest-growing
economies by offering strategies not widely available in the
region. Asian investors as a percent of Dighton’s total assets
will rise to a third by the end of the year from about 25
percent currently, Gurary said.  The Dighton ASP fund has returned 36.7 percent this year,
including preliminary performance figures for September. That
compares with a 1.7 percent gain through August by the
 Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index .  The fund, which invests in about 50 futures markets
globally with a focus on commodities, has an annualized return
of 46 percent from its inception in 2003, according to the firm.
It now accounts for about $200 million of total assets.  Dighton Balanced Fund  Dighton also runs the Dighton Balanced Fund, which is three
times less leveraged than its flagship ASP Fund. The firm aims
to grow the assets of Dighton Balanced by offering it to Asian
investors, Gurary said.  Increased demand for managed futures funds has boosted
their assets to more than $300 billion from $5 billion at the
end of 1980s, according to Dighton. Managed future funds use
computer systems to trade contracts ranging from bonds and
equities to gold and oil.  While about 70 percent of managed futures funds use
computer systems, Dighton’s funds don’t rely on computerized
models, Matthijs Lek, a marketing director, at Dighton said in
the same interview. Dighton’s managed future funds are run by
Alex Moiseev, a former commodities trader and one of the first
members of the Russian Stock & Commodity Exchange in 1990,
according to the firm.  Less dependence on computer systems to search for price
signals in futures markets reduces Dighton’s return correlation
to its competitors, Lek said.  Moiseev closed all his positions at the beginning of
September and currently holds 100 percent cash because of market
uncertainty, Lek said.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 