-- DZ Sells Deutsche Bank Credit-Linked Notes, Cementing Top Issuer Ranking
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-09-24T11:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/dz-sells-deutsche-bank-structured-note-cementing-top-ranking.html
DZ Bank AG , the biggest underwriter
of structured notes, sold 50 million euros ($78 million) of
notes linked to the debt of Deutsche Bank AG.  The seven-year credit-linked notes pay a rate equivalent to
the three-month euro interbank offered rate, plus a payment
based on income from credit-default swaps on Deutsche Bank,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The variable coupon
notes pay a minimum 2.9 percent and are capped at 5 percent.  DZ Bank, which is only Germany’s sixth-largest lender by
assets, accounted for 11.8 percent, or $8.2 billion, of
structured note sales worldwide this year, according to
Bloomberg data that excludes equity-linked products. The
Frankfurt-based lender benefits from being one of two clearing
organizations for Germany’s cooperatives, allowing it to provide
structured products directly to more than 900 local lenders.  “We can sell small-ticket deals to the cooperative
network, which is something larger banks won’t often do,” said
 Rainer Overbeck , DZ Bank’s head of structured credit trading.
“We can issue five credit-linked notes for 2 million euros
each, which are aggregated to a decent size.”  The new notes referencing Deutsche Bank were marketed to
retail and institutional clients and were issued at 100 percent
of face value, Bloomberg data show.  The price of credit swaps on Deutsche Bank, Germany’s
biggest lender, has risen about 48 percent this year to 113.7
basis points, or 113,700 euros annually to protect 10 million
euros of debt from default, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts rose to as high as 187.4 basis points in June.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on 25 banks and
insurers, including Deutsche Bank, rose 2 basis points to 150 at
12 p.m. in London, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The
benchmark was 76 basis points at the start of the year.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
indicates deterioration in the perception of credit quality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  