-- EDF, Constellation in Talks to Save U.S. Nuclear Venture
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-09-24T16:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/edf-constellation-are-said-to-be-in-talks-on-saving-u-s-nuclear-venture.html
Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest utility, and Constellation Energy Group Inc. are in
talks to avoid the collapse of their U.S. nuclear venture,
according to two people with knowledge of the discussions.  The companies are negotiating to resolve a dispute over an
option Baltimore-based Constellation has to sell non-nuclear
plants to EDF for as much as $2 billion, the people said,
declining to be identified because the talks are private. The
so-called put, due to expire in December, was agreed to in 2008
when Constellation sold half its nuclear business to EDF.  EDF, Constellation’s largest  shareholder , would view the
exercise of the put option as a hostile move likely to
jeopardize their relationship and a venture to develop new
nuclear projects, the people said. The talks started in the last
two to three weeks and the companies aim to reach an agreement
within the next month, one of the people said. EDF has told
investors the sale would leave  Constellation  short of generation
capacity and taxes would have to paid, one said.  Larry McDonnell , a Constellation spokesman, declined to
comment on the put option with EDF, and referred to a July
statement by Chief Executive Officer  Mayo Shattuck .  Carole Trivi , an EDF spokeswoman, also declined to comment.  Constellation is working “holistically” with EDF on
nuclear projects and it’s “not constructive to introduce the
put issue into the equation,” Shattuck said July 28.  Need EDF  “They have to decide in the next couple of months whether
they are going forward with the nuclear program, for which they
need EDF,”  Dorothea Matthews , a New York-based analyst for
CreditSights Inc., said in an interview. “If they’re not, it
probably would be a good idea to dump those plants on EDF.”  EDF bought half of Constellation’s nuclear business for
$4.5 billion in 2009 when the French utility was headed by
Pierre Gadonneix. The deal helped EDF keep a foothold in the
U.S. and thwarted a takeover of Constellation by  Warren Buffett ’s  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.  The put option was
designed to give Constellation more liquidity if needed after
credit markets collapsed.  EDF fell 0.1 percent to close at 31.69 euros in Paris. The
shares are down 24 percent this year.  A delay by the Energy Department in Washington in awarding
what’s likely to be the last federal loan guarantee for a new
nuclear plant authorized by Congress is weighing on both
Constellation and EDF.  ‘Necessary Hurdle’  A federal loan guarantee is a “necessary hurdle” for the
partners’ first project, expansion of a Maryland nuclear plant,
Shattuck has said.  Ebony Meeks  a spokeswoman for the Energy Department in
Washington, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking the
status of loan-guarantee applications.  “If they don’t get a loan guarantee or they decide not to
go ahead with the nuclear program, maybe it’s more to the
benefit of shareholders to exercise that put and get the cash,”
Matthews at CreditSights said.  Early this year, Constellation was spending $1 million a
day on design work for the proposed plant in Lusby, Maryland,
adjacent to its Calvert Cliffs reactors. It cut spending and
staff after the loan guarantee failed to materialize, costs
rose, power demand fell, and the price of natural gas, a
competing fuel for power generation, tumbled, Shattuck said.  EDF reported a 47 percent drop in first-half profit and
took a provision of 1.1 billion euros ($1.47 billion) related to
its holding in Constellation. Based in Paris, EDF owns 8.4
percent of Constellation shares and has a seat on the board.  As well as its half of Constellation’s existing nuclear
business, EDF holds 50 percent of UniStar Nuclear Energy LLC.
Unistar is seeking to develop the Calvert Cliffs reactor. EDF
Chief Financial Officer  Thomas Piquemal  said in July the utility
retains its “ambition” to pursue the Maryland reactor project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  