-- Medvedev Seeks to Diversify China Trade as Energy Exports Rise
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   L u c i a n   K i m
-- 2010-09-24T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/medvedev-seeks-to-diversify-russia-s-china-trade-as-energy-exports-rise.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  travels
to China next week in a bid to diversify trade even as Russia
plans to boost oil and gas exports to its Asian neighbor.  Medvedev, who took his first presidential trip outside the
former Soviet Union to China in 2008, is returning for a three-
day visit on Sept. 26 to push his agenda of Russia’s
modernization away from a “primitive” resource-based economy.  At the same time, Russia is set to open its first oil
pipeline to China this year and plans to add natural-gas
deliveries in the future, expanding from traditional markets in
Europe. The risk is that demand from China, the world’s biggest
energy consumer, could drown out Medvedev’s attempts to export
more value-added goods, analysts said.  “The danger for Russia is that it becomes little more than
the energy and materials supplier for China,” said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow.
“In that event, Russia’s political relevance not only to China,
but to the rest of the world, would start to diminish.”  Last year, about 74 percent of Russian exports to China
were natural resources, while 68 percent of Chinese imports to
Russia were machines and technical equipment, according to the
 Federal Customs Service  in Moscow.  Uphill Battle  “China has an interest in diversifying its imports from
Russia and to an equal extent to increase its exports of
machines,”  Sergei Prikhodko , Medvedev’s foreign policy aide,
told reporters in Moscow.  Medvedev, who is wooing international partners to
participate in a Russian version of Silicon Valley and develop
industry, faces an uphill battle in China as energy plays an
increasingly bigger role in relations.  His delegation for the China trip, dominated by commodities
and energy companies, reflects this difficulty.  Vladimir Strzhalkovsky , chief executive officer of Russia’s biggest miner
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, and  Oleg Deripaska , head of aluminum
producer United Co. Rusal, will travel with Medvedev, according
to Prikhodko.  Alexei Miller, chief executive officer of Russia’s gas
export monopoly OAO Gazprom, will be on hand, Prikhodko said.
“A whole range of documents on expanding cooperation in the oil
and gas sphere will be signed,” he said.  Lukoil-CNPC Agreement  While Russia plans to augment oil deliveries to China with
gas, Gazprom is locked in talks over the pricing formula.
Gazprom profit still depends on meeting a quarter of gas demand
in the European Union, where prices are pegged to the oil market
in long-term contracts.  OAO Lukoil, Russia’s largest non-state oil company, plans
to sign an agreement with CNPC during Medvedev’s visit to
deliver gas it produces in Uzbekistan, Chief Executive Officer
 Vagit Alekperov  said on Sept. 17. Last year, China opened a gas
pipeline to Turkmenistan, breaking Gazprom’s near monopoly over
the former Soviet republic’s export routes.  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, and CNPC may
build a refinery within two years, RIA Novosti reported on Sept.
21. Rosneft CEO  Eduard Khudainatov  will travel with Medvedev.  Russia agreed last year to supply China with oil for 20
years in return for a $25 billion credit to state oil company
 OAO Rosneft  and the national oil pipeline monopoly OAO
Transneft.  Igor Sechin , Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s deputy
for energy, attended the groundbreaking ceremony this week for a
$5 billion oil refinery in Tianjin to be built by Rosneft and
China National Petroleum Corp. In August, Putin opened the first
section of the East Siberian Pacific Ocean pipeline, which will
feed the link to China.  ‘Tied Deal’  “Russia has been increasing its energy and materials
supply but China has bought little else and not made any
material investments in Russia other than paying in advance for
energy supplies,” said Weafer. “That is a tied deal and
benefits almost nobody other than China.”  Anatoly Isaikin , head of Russian weapons dealer
Rosoboronexport, will be in the delegation, though China stopped
buying big-ticket arms like ships and jet fighters from Russia
in 2005, further increasing the share of energy in the trade
balance, said  Konstantin Makiyenko , deputy head of the  Center
for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies , a Moscow-based
defense research center.  National Currencies  Once Russia’s top weapons client, China hasn’t been in the
top five in terms of contracts since 2007, Makiyenko said.  Prikhodko said that while no arms deals are planned for
this trip and revenue from sales to China isn’t growing, Russia
is “moving to a higher stage” that includes licensed
production.  Medvedev will use this trip to push for expanding the use
of national currencies in trade with China, Prikhodko said.  “The role and significance of the yuan will grow over
time, and we hope the same will happen for the ruble,” he said.
“When banking cooperation becomes more mature, we will move
toward cooperation between financial platforms and exchanges.”  VTB Group’s deputy chairman,  Vasily Titov , will travel with
the president and oversee signing of a credit agreement with
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Prikhodko said.  Russia’s gravitation toward Asian energy markets is
logical, given that “structurally crippled Europe doesn’t
promise much growth at all,” said  Roland Nash , head of global
strategy at Moscow-based Renaissance Capital.  “If Russia is going to be ensured that it enjoys the same
growth rates it did over the last decade, it can’t really look
to Europe,” said Nash. “It’s a balance; you have to take
technology from the West and growth from the East.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net ;
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  