-- Meirelles Says Petrobras Share Offering Attracted `Considerable' Dollars
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-09-24T16:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/meirelles-says-petrobras-offering-boosted-dollar-inflows-considerably-.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA ’s share
offering attracted “considerable” dollar inflows that are
unlikely to be seen again, central bank President Henrique
Meirelles said.  The state-controlled oil company raised as much as 120.4
billion reais ($70 billion) from the Brazilian government and
other investors in the world’s largest share sale as it seeks
cash to develop offshore fields. Petrobras, based in Rio de
Janeiro, sold 2.4 billion common shares for  29.65 reais  each and
priced 1.87 billion preferred stock at 26.30 reais apiece,
according to a regulatory filing from the company yesterday.  There are no estimates for other offerings of the “same
dimension,” Meirelles said today at an event in New York.  Brazil’s real has strengthened 2.6 percent in the three
weeks leading up to the Petrobras share sale..  Meirelles said that excessive capital inflows represent an
“important risk” throughout the global economy. He said that
policy makers are prepared to buy or sell dollars in the foreign
exchange market to manage liquidity levels.  Meirelles stepped up dollar purchases to the highest in
almost a year this month in a bid to temper gains in the real.
The central bank bought $5.9 billion in the first 12 business
days of September,  Altamir Lopes , head of the bank’s economic
department, said Sept. 21. The purchases are the biggest for the
period since October 2009, when policy makers bought $6.3
billion.  Since the beginning of 2009, the Brazilian currency has
jumped 35 percent, the third best performer after the Australian
dollar and the South African rand amid the 16 most traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Meirelles also said that Brazil’s “responsible” fiscal
policies over the past few years have boosted the nation’s
credibility, helping put into place the conditions for interest
rates to fall.  Since Meirelles became bank chief in 2003, Brazil’s
benchmark interest rate has fallen from 26.5 percent to a record
low 8.75 percent during the global financial crisis.  Policy makers on Sept. 1 kept the benchmark rate unchanged
at 10.75 percent, after raising the Selic a total of two
percentage points over their three previous meetings to prevent
Latin America’s biggest economy from overheating.  Analyst forecast policy makers will resume rate increases
in March, lifting the Selic to 11.75 percent by June, according
to the median forecast in the central bank survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  