-- Emerging-Market Equity Inflows Climb to Highest in Seven Weeks, EPFR Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-09-24T02:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/emerging-market-equity-inflows-climb-to-highest-in-seven-weeks-epfr-says.html
Emerging-market stock funds drew
the most inflows in seven weeks and commodity funds posted the
best week since early June amid speculation central banks
globally will provide additional stimulus, EPFR Global said.  All equity funds tracked by EPFR took in a net $3.3 billion
for the week, with Asia excluding Japan stock funds posting
their best week in more than 15 months, the  research company 
said in an e-mailed statement. All bond funds attracted $4.8
billion, the most in a month, according to the statement.  Stocks have rallied this month after central bankers from
Japan to the U.K. indicated that further stimulus may be in
store. The U.S. Federal Reserve also said this week for the
first time that slowing inflation and sluggish growth may need
more action.  “Markets have caught a real tailwind off of this idea that
quantitative easing is imminent and that central banks around
the world will be very relaxed,”  Mark Matthews , a strategist at
Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in Singapore. “As long as the market believes it, it will
continue to grind up, so I would not want to be very short the
market right now.”  Data released yesterday showed  initial jobless claims  in
the U.S. increased by 12,000 to 465,000 in the week ended Sept.
18. Growth in Europe’s services and manufacturing industries
weakened more than economists forecast in September, London-
based Markit Economics said yesterday, and Ireland’s gross
domestic product unexpectedly contracted in the second quarter.  Developed Markets  Among developed nations, U.S. and Japan equity funds
inflows were offset by net withdrawals of $1.05 billion from
Europe stock funds, the most in 18 weeks, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR.  Emerging-market stock funds tracked by EPFR globally took
in $3.38 billion during the week, taking net inflows to $45
billion for the year, EPFR said.  Asian stock  funds had their
best weekly performance since June 2009, helped by the highest
inflows into India in nearly three years and the best week in
more than four months for China, the research company said.  “Asia’s combination of strong regional growth and the
generally good fiscal profiles of key markets saw funds
investing in that region fare particularly well,” EPFR said.  The geographically diversified global emerging-market
equity funds reported a 17th straight week of net inflows, while
funds investing in Latin America and emerging Europe, the Middle
East and Africa also posted gains, the research company said.  Record Highs  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose to as high as 1,052.21
yesterday, the highest since July 2008. The Bombay Stock
Exchange’s Sensitive Index passed the 20,000 level on Sept. 21
for the first time since January 2008, while benchmark indexes
in Turkey, Indonesia and  the Philippines  set new record highs
during the past week.  Gold prices also rose to new highs, reaching $1,297.50 an
ounce this week. That helped to boost commodity funds, which
have taken in $11.7 billion this year, according to EPFR.  Developing-nation, global and U.S. bond funds all took in
more than $1 billion while high-yield bond funds absorbed $786
million, EPFR also said. Year-to-date inflows for all bond funds
tracked by EPFR climbed past $320 billion, equivalent to 106
percent of the full-year total for 2009, according to the
statement.  Dollar bonds in developing nations have returned  7 percent 
this quarter through yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index. That compares with a 2.5
percent gain in U.S. Treasuries, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Treasury Master Index.  Emerging-market debt has rallied every quarter since 2008,
the longest winning streak since March 2004. The Philippines
raised $1 billion by selling local-currency bonds to global
investors on Sept. 9, attracting $13.3 billion of demand. Sri
Lanka plans to sell $1 billion of dollar bonds later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  