-- Emerging Stocks Gain, Set for Fourth Weekly Climb, on Global Fund Inflows
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-09-24T12:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/emerging-stocks-gain-set-for-weekly-advance-on-asian-inflows-ifo-data.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced on
an unexpected rise in German business confidence and the
prospect investors will pump more money into Asia’s developing
nations to profit from the world’s fastest economic growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.3 percent to
1,050.60 at 12:14 p.m. in London, set for the highest close
since July 2008. The measure has advanced 1.4 percent this week,
set for a fourth straight gain and the longest winning streak
since the six weeks through March 19. Indonesia’s  Jakarta
Composite index  climbed 1.6 percent to a record and Korean
shares rose 0.8 percent.  Russia’s  Micex  share index and Poland’s WIG20 pared losses
after the Munich-based Ifo Institute said its business climate
index increased to the highest level since June 2007. Economists
had forecast a drop, in line with declines in euro zone
purchasing managers and Irish gross domestic product data
yesterday.  “The Ifo was relatively benign,’  Elisabeth Gruie , an
emerging-market strategist with BNP Paribas SA in London, said
in a telephone interview today. “We have had a lot of
uncertainty coming from the tone of the equity markets.”  PT Bank Negara Indonesia, the nation’s third-biggest state-
owned bank, rose 7.2 percent after parliament approved plans for
banks to sell new shares to boost capital. PT Bank Mandiri added
4.8 percent after its own rights offering was approved.  Hyundai Motor Co.  gained 3.9 percent and its Kia Motors
Corp. affiliate jumped 5.6 percent in Seoul in the first day of
trading after Moody’s Investors Service raised their credit
ratings to Baa2 from Baa3 on Sept. 21. The Korean exchange was
shuttered Sept. 21 through Sept. 23 for a holiday.  Turkish Banks  Russia’s Micex share index was down 0.1 percent, after
having lost as much as 0.8 percent before the German confidence
data. Poland’s  WIG20  share index was little changed, rebounding
from an earlier drop of as much as 0.6 percent.  Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index slipped 0.6 percent, led by
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , the nation’s biggest bank by market
value, which lost 1.8 percent. The bank’s shares have lost 2.3
percent of their value since the central bank boosted reserve
requirements for the financial system yesterday.  India’s rupee gained 0.9 percent against the dollar to
45.2650, on track for its biggest advance in more than three
months. The currency has been buoyed by a government decision
yesterday to increase the cap on foreign bond holdings.  The ruble appreciated 0.3 percent to 30.9400 against the
dollar, its strongest gain in a week.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging market bonds and U.S. Treasuries eased 1 basis point to
2.90 percent, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ Index.  Asia equity funds, excluding Japan, took in the most money
in more than 15 months during the week ended Sept. 22, research
firm EPFR Global said. Investors plowed about $45 billion into
emerging-market equity funds in the year, the  research company 
said in an e-mailed statement.  A U.S. government report due later today may show orders
for durable goods dropped in August according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  -- Editors:  Linda Shen ,  Colin Keatinge .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  