-- Emerging Stocks Gain, Set for Fourth Weekly Climb, on Global Fund Inflows
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-09-24T06:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/emerging-stocks-gain-set-for-fourth-weekly-climb-on-global-fund-inflows.html
Emerging-market stocks rose amid
speculation global funds will pump more money into Asia’s
developing nations to profit from the world’s fastest economic
growth, overshadowing an increase in U.S. jobless claims.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.1 percent to
1,047.98 at 1:59 p.m. in Singapore, set for the highest close
since July 2008. The measure has advanced 1.1 percent this week,
set for a fourth straight gain and the longest winning streak
since the six weeks through March 19. Indonesia’s  Jakarta
Composite index  climbed 1.6 percent to a record today. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index fell 0.4 percent as technology companies declined.  “Inflows into emerging markets have remained robust, which
explains why the Asian markets in particular continue to hold up
well,” said  Michael Auyeung , who manages about $640 million as
chief investment officer at Pacific Mutual Fund Bhd. outside
Kuala Lumpur.  Asia excluding Japan equity funds took in the most money in
more than 15 months during the week ended Sept. 22, research
firm EPFR Global said. Investors plowed about $45 billion into
emerging-market equity funds in the year through Sept. 22,
according to EPFR Global, the  research company  said in an e-
mailed statement.  PT Bank Negara Indonesia, the nation’s third-biggest state-
owned bank, rose 2.9 percent. Parliament approved the lender’s
plan for a management stock option amounting to a 3 percent
stake, Achsanul Qosasi, a member of the commission that oversees
financial affairs, said.  Moody’s Upgrade  Hyundai Motor Co.  gained 3.9 percent and its Kia Motors
Corp. affiliate jumped 5.6 percent in Seoul after Moody’s
Investors Service raised their ratings.  U.S. initial jobless claims increased by 12,000 to 465,000
in the week ended Sept. 18, more than the 450,000-claim median
projection by economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
unexpected increase in U.S. claims stoked concern weakness in
the job market will hold back the world’s largest economy.  A U.S. government report due later today may show orders
for durable goods dropped in August according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Samsung Electronics Co Ltd. , which gets a fifth of its
revenue, dropped 2.3 percent in Seoul. Epistar Corp. fell the
most in a month in Taipei trading after the island’s largest
light-emitting diode maker was cut to “neutral” from “buy” at
Nomura Holdings Inc.  -- Editors:  Richard Frost   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  