-- Enel Is in Talks to Sell Endesa Gas-Distribution Network to Goldman Fund
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-09-24T10:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/enel-in-talks-with-goldman-fund-over-sale-of-endesa-s-natural-gas-assets.html
Enel SpA  is in talks with  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. ’s infrastructure fund about possibly selling
 Endesa SA ’s gas distribution network.  Negotiations are taking place, said a spokeswoman for Enel,
Italy’s biggest utility. She declined to be named or provide
additional details. Spanish newspaper Expansion reported today
that Endesa is finalizing a deal to sell its gas network to the
Goldman fund for 800 million euros ($1.07 billion).  “The sale of assets is being finalized,” Guillermo Errea,
a spokesman for Endesa in Madrid, said, declining to confirm or
deny the Expansion report. “It could be done in the next few
hours but it could also collapse.”  A spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in London declined to
comment on the Expansion report.  Enel owns 92 percent of Endesa after gaining control of the
Spanish power company in 2007. As part of that deal, Endesa
transferred some renewable-energy units to builder Acciona SA
and sold assets to Germany’s  E.ON AG . The company is selling
more units to increase savings after the takeover.  Earlier this month, a person with knowledge of the matter
said funds associated with Macquarie Bank Ltd., Goldman Sachs
and Axa Private Equity had made offers for the  Endesa  natural-
gas distribution and transmission assets, which may be valued at
as much as 750 million euros.  Binding Offers  Endesa Chief Executive Officer  Andrea Brentan  on July 28
said the Spanish company was expecting binding offers for 80
percent of its natural-gas distribution and transmission assets
in Spain in September.  Rome-based Enel will meet a target to cut  debt  6 billion
euros to 45 billion euros after completing the initial public
offering of renewable-energy unit Enel Green Power, and selling
the Spanish gas distribution assets and a stake in a Bulgarian
coal-fired plant, Enel Chief Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  said
in a Sept. 21 interview.  Endesa  shares have dropped 17 percent in Madrid this year,
cutting the company’s market value to 21 billion euros. Enel has
declined 5.3 percent in Milan trading this year, giving the
utility a market value of 36 billion euros.  Red Electrica Corp. SA , the manager of Spain’s power grid,
on July 1 said it agreed to pay Endesa 1.27 billion euros for
electricity transportation assets in regions including the
Balearic and Canary Islands. Earlier this year, Endesa sold its
stake in the Sagunto regasification plant to Osaka Gas Co.  Endesa had power generation capacity of 39,108 megawatts at
the end of June, including 34 percent in hydropower plants, 24
percent in fuel oil units, 16 percent each in coal- and gas-
fired plants and 9 percent in nuclear reactors. Iberdrola SA is
Spain’s biggest electricity company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  