-- Games Chief Sees `Improvement' at Delhi Village Amid Cleanup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-09-24T08:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/england-to-send-full-team-to-delhi-commonwealth-games-as-cleanup-continues.html
Commonwealth Games Federation chief
Mike Fennell said “considerable improvements” had been made to
Delhi’s athletes’ village as England and New Zealand heartened
organizers with vows to send teams.  Fennell arrived in the Indian capital as Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  late yesterday summoned ministers and set a 24-
hour deadline for the completion of cleanup work at the village
and venues. Some nations had delayed their arrival and star
competitors had withdrawn, citing health and safety fears.  “The briefing I’ve received from my CEO,  Mike Hooper , last
night, was that considerable improvements have been made within
the village, with further significant resources deployed,”
Fennell said in a  statement  posted on the federation’s  website 
today. Still, it’s “vital that all remedial work that has
already started continues with the greatest urgency,” he said.  The buildup to the Games, which Singh had said would
highlight India’s growing economic strength, has been marred by
the collapse of a footbridge next to the main stadium, an
outbreak of dengue fever, monsoon floods and security concerns
after the Sept. 19 shooting of two Taiwanese near a mosque.  “Confidence in India’s infrastructure, its capacity to
organize large events, and its reputation as a tourist
destination have all been brought into question,” Matt
Robinson, a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney
wrote in a note today.  Squalid Bathrooms  Complaints about conditions at the village, which will
house teams from 71 countries and territories during the Oct. 3-
14 event, emerged this week. Canada, Scotland and New Zealand
had delayed their athletes’ arrival in India to give organizers
time to fix plumbing, wiring and furnishings.  Fennell said in the statement he would meet team managers
and senior government officials later today.  Photographs published on the British Broadcasting Corp.’s
website  showed  dirty bathrooms, animal footprints on beds,
exposed wiring and flooding at the village. Lalit Bhanot,
secretary general of the Delhi organizing committee, said he was
confident the accommodation would meet requirements.  “The Games shouldn’t have been awarded to New Delhi, in
hindsight,”  Australian Olympic Committee  President  John Coates 
told reporters in Sydney. “The problem is the Commonwealth
Games Federation is under-resourced. It doesn’t have the ability
to monitor the progress of cities in the way that the Olympic
committee does.”  England Team  England decided to participate in the event after seeing
problems being addressed. “Our team in Delhi are now seeing the
improved levels of resourcing which are required to resolve the
significant operational issues,” Commonwealth Games England
said in a  statement . “We will continue to monitor the situation
daily to ensure the village and stadia are safe and fit for
purpose.”  New Zealand athletes are expected to start arriving in
India next week, the New Zealand Olympic Committee said in a
statement, citing “significant” progress at the village.  “We remain hopeful that things can be turned around,”
NZOC President Mike Stanley said in a statement. “The situation
will continue to be reviewed on a daily basis.”  One of the country’s stars, road cyclist  Greg Henderson ,
said he won’t be on the plane to Delhi. Four-time Commonwealth
Games medalist Henderson pulled out citing health and security
fears, bringing to nine the number of athletes to withdraw this
week. Four British cyclists, led by Olympic team pursuit
champion Geraint Thomas of Wales, withdrew yesterday.  800 Laborers  “Realistically it’s probably going to be OK and the Games
will go on,” Henderson was cited as saying by the New Zealand
Press Association. “But where I am in my career, at the moment
the negatives outweigh the pros.”  Wales and Northern Ireland said yesterday that their teams
will travel to the Indian capital as scheduled after being given
assurances from local organizers. The first group of Scottish
competitors is scheduled to leave tomorrow after having the
departure put back 48 hours.  Efforts to improve living conditions at the village, which
included bringing about 800 laborers on site, left Canadian
officials “optimistic” that the nation’s athletes and coaches
will arrive on the weekend, according to Scott Stevenson,
director of sport for Commonwealth Games Canada.  Suresh Kalmadi , chairman of the organizing committee, has
expressed confidence that the village will be brought up “to
standards that would be acceptable” to visiting teams.  “We believe there will be no serious complaints anymore,”
Kalmadi said in a  statement  yesterday. “And we believe that no
teams will pull out of the Games.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ; 