-- Merck KGaA MS Pill Rejected by European Drug Agency
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-09-24T15:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/merck-kgaa-multiple-sclerosis-pill-is-rejected-by-eu-drug-agency-on-risks.html
European regulators rejected  Merck
KGaA’s  multiple sclerosis pill cladribine, the second setback
this week for the German drugmaker in the race with  Novartis AG 
for a share of a new market.  The European Medicines Agency found the medicine’s benefits
don’t outweigh the risks, Darmstadt, Germany-based Merck said in
a statement today. Merck is weighing an appeal and still
believes cladribine has the potential to generate $1 billion in
revenue a year, said  Elmar Schnee , head of the company’s drug
unit, in a telephone interview. The stock dropped the most in
more than a year.  Merck trails Novartis in the race to provide MS patients
with a pill in the U.S., where the Swiss drugmaker won approval
on Sept. 22 for its Gilenya tablet. Today’s cladribine decision,
the latest regulatory blow for Merck, may leave investors
concerned about the pill’s chances of approval in the U.S., said
 Leslie Iltgen , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus Lampe KG,
in a telephone interview.  “They were really betting on cladribine,” said Iltgen,
who rates the stock a “buy.” “It is a setback, no doubt about
it.”  Merck fell 7.18 euros, or 10 percent, to 63 euros at 5:35
p.m. in Frankfurt trading. It was the biggest drop since July
24, 2009. WestLB AG, Helvea SA and Piper Jaffray & Co. cut their
ratings on Merck’s shares.  Cancer Cases  European authorities were concerned about four cancer cases
observed during clinical testing of cladribine and about the
drug’s damping of the immune system, Schnee said. An oral
medicine would allow MS patients to avoid the injections needed
for current treatments such as  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. ’s Copaxone, Biogen Idec Inc.’s Avonex and Merck’s own
Rebif, the top-selling drug in the German company’s
pharmaceutical division.  “It’s a sad day for MS patients in Europe,” Schnee said.
“I’m really surprised at the verdict.”  Multiple sclerosis causes the body to attack nerve cells
through the immune system. Both cladribine and Novartis’s
Gilenya blunt the attack by targeting white blood cells that
harm the protective coating of nerve cells. Gilenya keeps
lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell, from being released
into the immune system, while cladribine kills lymphocytes.  Lasting Effect  One distinction between the two drugs is that cladribine’s
effect lasts longer, said  Jeffrey Cohen , a staff physician at
the  Cleveland Clinic ’s Mellen Center for Multiple Sclerosis
Treatment and Research, in a telephone interview yesterday.
Cohen led a final-stage clinical trial comparing Gilenya to
Biogen Idec’s Avonex.  The prolonged impact makes cladribine more convenient for
patients, who need only take pills a few days a year, Cohen
said. Doctors may be concerned about the drug’s long-term
influence on the immune system, he said, because “you can’t
undo the effects.”  European sales would have accounted for about $700 million
of an estimated $1.5 billion in peak annual revenue for
cladribine, Merck’s most promising new medicine,  Cornelia Thomas , a London-based analyst for WestLB AG, said in an
interview before the decision. European regulators last year
rejected the German company’s top cancer drug, Erbitux, for use
against lung tumors.  “Cladribine is their biggest pipeline hope,” Thomas said.
“If it falls flat on its face, it’s hard to see where future
growth is going to come from at Merck Serono.”  Priority Review  U.S. regulators agreed to give cladribine a priority review
in July, cutting the time it will take to decide on the drug
from 10 months to six. The Food and Drug Administration is
expected to rule on the drug in the fourth quarter, Schnee said.
The regulator rejected Merck’s first submission in November,
saying it was incomplete.  The German company won approval to sell cladribine in
Russia on July 12 and in Australia on Sept. 3.  Backing in Europe would have helped Merck make up the
ground lost to Novartis, which awaits a decision from European
regulators on Gilenya in the next six months. The Novartis drug
may bring peak revenue of $3 billion a year,  Andrew Weiss , a
Zurich-based analyst for Bank Vontobel AG, wrote in a note to
investors today.  Novartis gained 1.05 Swiss francs, or 1.9 percent, to 56.6
Swiss francs in Zurich trading.  Merck KGaA isn’t affiliated with Merck & Co. of Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Frankfurt at  nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  