-- EU Trying to Link Up With Federal Rather Than Local U.S. Emissions Trading
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2010-09-24T15:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/eu-trying-to-link-up-with-federal-rather-than-local-u-s-emissions-trading.html
The European Union will keep trying
to link its carbon market, the world’s biggest, with any U.S.
program at the federal level rather than regional systems.  A federal U.S. cap-and-trade program, narrowly approved in
the House of Representatives last year, didn’t gain enough
support to pass the Senate this year. States including
California are proposing emissions trading under a program known
as the  Western Climate Initiative  in 2012.  “The main emphasis is what is happening at the federal
level,”  Peter Zapfel , head of policy coordination in the
climate unit of the European Commission, said today in an
interview at a Chatham House conference in London. Chatham House
is an international policy adviser based in London. “The
regional markets are useful early experiences,” Zapfel said.  The 27-nation bloc started its European trading system in
2005, capping emissions for about 12,000 factories and power
stations and allowing them to buy and sell credits. The EU said
it will reduce the supply of CO2 permits by 21 percent in 2020
compared with 2005 as part of its plan to cut greenhouse-gas
emissions by at least 20 percent compared with 1990 levels.  The EU should consider joining forces with more receptive
nations -- potentially Japan and China, for instance -- instead
of seeking to lure the U.S. into a European-type carbon market,
said  Michael Grubb , an economist and member of the U.K. Climate
Change Committee that advises government.  ‘Lies in Tatters’  “We are still seeing vestiges of wishful thinking,” Grubb
said today in an interview at the conference. Attempts at making
EU climate-protection policy acceptable to the U.S. have failed,
he said. “That strategy lies in tatters.”  EU Climate Chief  Connie Hedegaard  said Sept. 21 that the EU
was “very disappointed” at the U.S. administration’s
“inertia” on cutting emissions from aviation and its refusal
to support the European proposal to reduce greenhouse-gas
discharges by airlines at international level.  “Indeed, there are signs the administration intends to use
the International Civil Aviation Organization meeting to oppose
the inclusion of third-country airlines in the EU emissions
trading system,” according to a speech that Hedegaard was due
to deliver at Harvard’s Kennedy School. “Not only is the U.S.
not demonstrating leadership itself, it apparently is seeking to
stop others from doing so too.”  The international climate negotiations in Cancun, Mexico,
this year should set a global target of reducing emissions from
international aviation by 10 percent below 2005 levels by 2020,
Hedegaard said. This matches a reduction target the EU proposed
last year at the Copenhagen climate meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mathew Carr  in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  