-- European Stocks Drop for Fourth Day; Kazakhmys, Merck KGaA Fall
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-09-24T16:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/european-stock-index-futures-drop-hsbc-merck-dana-petroleum-may-move.html
European stocks  advanced, erasing
earlier losses, after an unexpected rise in German business
confidence and a rebound in demand for U.S. capital goods eased
concern that the recovery is slowing.  ARM Holdings Plc jumped 6.1 percent amid speculation that
Oracle Corp. may be interested in buying the company. Adidas AG
rose 5.4 percent after rival Nike Inc. reported a surge in
orders for China. Continental AG climbed 6 percent after
Deutsche Bank AG raised its price estimate for the tiremaker.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 1.1 percent to
263.97 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, extending this week’s
increase to 0.4 percent. The gauge had fallen for the previous
three days as the cost to insure Irish debt climbed to a record,
adding to concern that some European countries will struggle to
repay their debt.  “We remain extremely overweight in equities as we think
equity markets are far too cheap at the moment,” said Vienna-
based Herbert Perus, head of equities at Raiffeisen Capital
Management who helps oversee about $36 billion, in an interview
before the durable goods report. “The fear is that the U.S. is
slowing into a double-dip recession, but we think that will not
happen.”  Germany’s Ifo institute said its business climate index,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 106.8 in
September, the highest level since 2007. In the U.S., a separate
report showed orders for capital equipment rebounded in August,
signaling that businesses have not slowed their rate of
investment as much as some economists projected.  U.S. Durable Goods  Bookings for goods, such as computers and communications
gear, increased 4.1 percent after a 5.3 percent drop in July,
the Commerce Department report showed today. Total orders fell
1.3 percent, while bookings excluding transportation equipment
rose at twice the rate that economists had forecast.  National benchmark indexes climbed in all 18 western
European markets except Iceland. France’s CAC 40 gained 1.9
percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 0.9 percent and
Germany’s DAX Index rallied 1.8 percent.  ARM rallied 6.1 percent to 414.6 pence after Oracle Chief
Executive Officer Larry Ellison yesterday said the company is
looking to purchase semiconductor companies and makers of
industry-specific software.  “Although it’s by no means obvious that ARM is the company
he has got in mind, we would argue that a takeover of ARM by
Oracle would make sense,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
analyst Didier Scemama wrote in a report today.  Adidas, Puma Gain  Adidas, the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
climbed 5.4 percent to 45.95 euros after its larger rival Nike
reported a 25 percent surge in orders from China.  Global orders for athletic shoes and clothes for delivery
between September and January grew 10 percent to $7.1 billion,
Nike said in a statement yesterday. The growth in China compares
with a 15 percent increase in North America and declines of 7
percent in Western Europe and 8 percent in Japan.  Puma AG, which generates about 23 percent of its revenue in
the Asia-Pacific region, gained 5.6 percent to 248.70 euros.  Continental jumped 6 percent to 56.46 euros after Deutsche
Bank raised its price estimate for Europe’s second-largest auto
parts supplier to 68 euros from 63 euros. That is an increase of
28 percent from yesterday’s close.  Alcatel-Lucent SA  also advanced, rallying 7.5 percent to
2.49 euros. Oddo & Cie. raised its recommendation for France’s
largest telecommunications equipment maker to “buy” from
“add” and raised its share price estimate by 15 percent to 3
euros.  Merck, Gamesa Fall  Merck KGaA sank 10 percent to 63 euros after the European
Medicines Agency rejected the drugmaker’s application to approve
its Cladribine multiple-sclerosis pill, saying the benefits
failed to outweigh the risks.  Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA lost 3.2 percent to 5.18
euros after the Del Pino family sold its stake in the wind-
turbine manufacturer. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA said it
sold the 5.6 percent stake in Gamesa for 5.13 euros per share.
BBVA was hired by Casa Grande Cartagena SL, the investment
company of the Del Pino family, to sell the shares.  Cegedim SA sank 18 percent to 46.20 euros after the medical
information-services provider said it’s “no longer” aiming to
improve its margin for 2010, following its first-half results.
The company posted a 20 percent rise in net income for the first
half of the year to 19.9 million euros ($26.81 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 