-- European Carbon Is Poised to Rise on Stochastic Cross: Technical Analysis
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2010-09-24T09:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/european-carbon-is-poised-to-rise-on-stochastic-cross-technical-analysis.html
European Union carbon permits are
poised to advance as so-called stochastic indicators cross,
according to Orbeo.  The slow stochastic oscillators “will probably cross over
today and provide a buying signal to the market,”  Carine Hemery , a Paris-based analyst at Orbeo, a carbon venture between
Societe Generale SA and Rhodia SA, said by telephone today.  The oscillator measures the closing price of a security
relative to its highs and lows during a particular period to try
to predict whether it will rise or fall. The chart signals
prices may increase when its “k-line,” based on a formula that
uses the highest and lowest prices in a set period, climbs above
its own moving average, or “d-line.” Carbon’s 10-day k-line
may climb above the three-day d-line, Hemery said.  EU permits for December rose 17 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
15.06 euros ($20.17) a metric ton as of 10:41 a.m. on London’s
European Climate Exchange. Permits hit a one-month low of 14.76
euros on Sept 21.  In technical analysis, investors study charts of trading
patterns to predict changes in prices. Traders also gauge permit
prices by looking at fuel prices. The U.K. and Germany have a
mixture of coal and natural gas-fueled power plants and can
switch between the two depending on costs.  Natural gas for delivery in Britain next month gained 1.6
percent to 44.65 pence a therm, according to broker data on
Bloomberg. The contract has risen 5.9 percent so far this week.
Higher gas prices may encourage more power generation from coal
plants, which require almost double the number of permits as
natural gas plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  