-- Europe Should Conduct Stress Tests on Banks Twice a Year, Katainen Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-09-24T11:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/europe-should-conduct-stress-tests-on-banks-twice-a-year-katainen-says.html
The European Union should conduct
regular stress tests on its biggest banks to sustain
transparency, Finland’s Finance Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  “I’m trying to push for the idea that it should be at
regular intervals, at least twice a year,” Katainen said in an
interview in Helsinki today. “Transparency is the best medicine
to improve confidence on the financial markets.”  EU leaders have struggled to restore investor confidence in
the region and its banks after Greece’s fiscal crisis sparked
concerns about debt levels. Regulators measured the capital
adequacy of 91 of the biggest banks in a July test passed by 84
lenders. That calmed markets by giving information financial
institutions could use to test each other, Katainen said.  Previously, the London-based European Committee of Banking
Supervisors in 2009 stress-tested 26 of the biggest banks
operating across national borders.  The July tests showed the banks needed only 3.5 billion
euros ($4.7 billion) of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest
analyst estimate.  The value of the exercise “was wider than the result the
test really gave,” Katainen said. “Openness gave market forces
more information, which they can test by themselves.”  Support Found  The proposed European Banking Authority, the new
organization that will be formed from the European Committee of
Banking Supervisors on Jan. 1, has been mandated “to initiate
and coordinate Union-wide stress tests” on a periodic basis so
as to constantly test the resilience of the EU banking sector,
said Franca Rosa Congiu from the CEBS in an e-mail today.  Katainen said he has found “quite a lot” of support for
regular testing. He’s also pushing for strict and automatic
sanctions for countries breaching the rules set out in the EU
Stability and Growth Pact. The agreement requires euro members
to keep government debt below 60 percent of gross domestic
product and budget deficits below 3 percent of GDP.  Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
proposed today that members breaching the deficit target would
be required to post a deposit of 0.2 percent of GDP and said
benchmarks should be set for countries to reach the 60 percent
of GDP debt level.  Rehn’s proposals are “exactly what I’d like to see,”
Katainen said. “I’m sure they will get support.”  European countries may also shift some of the burden of
preparing for future banking crises on to the banks themselves.  “If I should bet on something, I’d say sometime next year
we will have a harmonized way to organize the bank levy,”
Katainen said. The levy won’t help prevent a future crisis, only
pay for one, he said.  “Regulations such as Basel III, capital buffers and more
transparency are the best ways to avoid future banking crises,”
Katainen said.  The European economy is on a more stable footing than at
the beginning of the summer, having emerged from the “deepest
point” of the recession and facing “moderate” growth in the
coming years, Katainen said. “The biggest risk is the economic
development in the U.S.”  There is “no default risk” in the euro area, Katainen
said. Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland have done “a good
job” in reducing deficits. “They are all on a good track.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  