-- Leveraged-Loan Returns at Year's High as Brickman Offers `Covenant Lite'
-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2010-09-24T13:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/leveraged-loan-returns-at-year-s-high-as-brickman-offers-covenant-lite-.html
Leveraged-loan returns rose to
their highest level of the year this week as  Brickman Group
Holdings Inc.  took advantage of investor demand and marketed a
loan without financial-maintenance requirements.  The total return on the Markit iBoxx USD Leveraged Loans
Index reached 6.61 percent on Sept. 21, the highest for the
year, surpassing the 6.59 percent on April 30, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The gauge is comprised of
about 850 loans from 700 issuers.  Investors in search of extra yield have turned to high-
risk, high-return loans, driving supply to more than double this
year and allowing companies to bring so-called covenant-lite
deals to market. Those loans are devoid of restrictions such as
a mandate on maximum leverage, or debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  “Certain fixed-income investors who began the year
worrying about duration risk have now switched to a search for
yield, especially given low all-in returns available from most
fixed-income products,” said  Leland Hart , portfolio
manager at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which manages more
than $20 billion in leveraged-finance assets. “Given recent
comments out of Washington and the administration, it does not
seem like we will see a material increase in long-term interest
rates anytime soon.”  Federal Reserve policy makers said this week they’re
prepared to further ease monetary policy to bolster the U.S.
economy.  Slowing Growth  The world’s largest economy grew at a 1.6 percent annual
pace in the second quarter, down from 3.7 percent during the
previous three months, the Commerce Department said Aug. 27. The
unemployment rate increased to 9.6 percent from 9.5 percent, the
Labor Department reported Sept. 3.  So far this year, seven companies have brought covenant-
lite deals to market, according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged
Commentary and Data, including a $1.2 billion term loan from
 Smurfit-Stone Container Corp.  in February to exit bankruptcy and
a $325 million term loan from  SkillSoft Plc  in May to back its
leveraged buyout.  The search for yield has driven about $234 billion of
leverage loans arranged in the U.S. this year, up from $169
billion in all of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
High-yield, high-risk, or leveraged loans, are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  “There is a lot of cash that has been on the sideline that
investors have been looking to put to work and there is a lot of
demand for paper,” said  Otis Casey , a credit analyst at Markit
in New York. “People are hopeful and optimistic of seeing a
return in primary market volumes because it had dried up in
2009, but there are some concerns that maybe the market is too
advantageous for borrowers right now.”  Brickman Loans  Brickman Group, a provider of commercial landscape
maintenance services based in Gaithersburg, Maryland, was
seeking $550 million in bank loans this week to refinance debt
and fund a dividend, according to a person familiar with the
transaction.  Barclays Plc and Bank of America Merrill Lynch are
arranging the facility, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  The facility will include a $50 million five-year revolving
credit line and a $500 million six-year covenant-lite term loan
B, according to the person. The existing term loan B also is
covenant lite.  Total leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, will be 5.6 times, said the
person.  Covenant Tests  The average number of covenant tests included in first-lien
loans was 2.5 in the third quarter, down from 2.6 in the first
half of 2010, according to S&P LCD. About 5 percent of loans
arranged in the third quarter were covenant lite, compared with
3 percent in the first half and 9 percent in 2009, the data
show.  “Even in this more robust new-issue environment we are
not seeing the return of covenant lites,” said BlackRock’s
Hart. “Investors are still wary of the past and are demanding a
better set of covenants than they had gotten during 2006 and
2007. They still remain rare and not something investors are
looking to rush into.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Bravo  in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 