-- Ex-AIG Executive Joins Falcon Bank Two Years After U.S. Dropped Charges
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-09-24T15:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/ex-aig-manager-pinkerton-joins-falcon-two-years-after-u-s-charges-dropped.html
David Pinkerton , a former  American
International Group Inc.  managing director, was appointed chief
investment officer of Falcon Private Bank, more than two years
after winning the dismissal of federal bribery charges.  Falcon, formerly the Switzerland-based private banking
division of AIG, announced the appointment in a Sept. 22
 statement . The bank was purchased last year by Aabar Investments
PJSC, which is owned by the state-run Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority.  Pinkerton, 49, oversaw alternative investments for New
York-based AIG until 2005, when U.S. prosecutors accused him of
investing in a deal in Azerbaijan knowing that illegal bribes
had been paid. In July 2008, the Justice Department dismissed
the charges.  “I’m very happy,” Pinkerton said today in a telephone
interview. He said he will oversee all categories of investment
for the bank, which has “a strong shareholder” in Aabar and
“strong relationships.” He will work in the bank’s Zurich
headquarters.  In the August issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine,
Pinkerton recounted how he endured almost three years under the
cloud of criminal charges that might have led to a prison
sentence.  Tobias Unger will become Falcon’s deputy chief executive
officer,  Rocco Sgobbo  will head investment solutions and Alex
Jagmetti will oversee private banking in Asia, according to the
statement.  “I am delighted to be adding such an outstanding team of
specialists to our executive board,” Falcon CEO  Eduardo Leemann 
said in the statement. “I am confident the new team will help us
to successfully pursue our ambitious growth targets in the
Middle and Far East, Asia and Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 