-- Mexico Central Bank Keeps Rate at 4.5% on Benign Inflation, Slack Demand
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-09-24T15:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/mexico-central-bank-keeps-rate-at-4-5-on-benign-inflation-slack-demand.html
Mexico’s central bank extended its
longest-ever interest rate pause today as benign inflation gives
policy makers room to bolster domestic demand that hasn’t fully
recovered from the global financial crisis.  Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led by Governor
 Agustin Carstens , kept its  benchmark interest rate  at 4.5
percent for a thirteenth straight meeting. The decision matched
the forecasts of all 15 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Domestic demand remains sluggish and while exports continue
to rebound, slower U.S. growth may damp sales of Mexico’s goods
to the world’s biggest economy, the central bank said in a
statement accompanying the decision. The Federal Reserve and the
European Central Bank are expected to remain on hold for the
foreseeable future, Mexico’s policy makers said.  “Private demand is still falling behind, with investment
depressed and consumption still below pre-crisis levels,” the
bank said. “Production and manufacturing exports maintain a
good rhythm of growth, even as this growth may slow due to
expected moderation in U.S. economic activity.”  After today’s report showing that U.S. capital equipment
orders rebounded, the peso gained to almost a seven-week high
against the dollar, extending the rally that followed the
Federal Reserve’s announcement that it’s ready to ease monetary
policy further to spur growth.  The peso rose 0.9 percent to 12.5406 at 11:07 a.m. New York
time. It has strengthened in the wake of U.S. activity this
week, gaining as much as 2 percent in the week to date.  On Hold Until 2011  The central bank won’t raise borrowing costs until
September 2011, according to a Sept. 21 survey of economists by
Citigroup Inc.’s local Banamex unit. Economists pushed back
their forecast from a previous estimate of July 2011.  The current pause is the longest since the bank began
targeting the overnight lending rate in 2005.  While domestic consumer demand in Latin America’s second-
biggest economy is improving, sluggish investment makes it an
inappropriate time to raise borrowing costs, said  Bertrand Delgado , an economist at Roubini Global Economics LLC in New
York.  “Obviously the domestic economy is bouncing back, but it
hasn’t fully recovered from the contraction last year,” Delgado
said in a telephone interview. “It continues on a slow
recovery.”  The  National Bureau of Economic Research  on Sept. 20 said
the worst U.S. recession since the 1930s ended in June 2009.
U.S. retail sales rose in August for the second consecutive
month, and the Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
rose to a three-month high. Companies in the U.S. added 67,000
jobs last month, more than forecast by economists.  U.S. Economic Data  Even so, the pace of payroll growth in the U.S. is too slow
to make up for the loss of more than 8 million jobs caused by
the recession or spur the consumer spending that makes up more
than 70 percent of the world’s biggest economy.  Favorable domestic data in Mexico has included Finance
Minister  Ernesto Cordero ’s Sept. 20 announcement that the
country had recovered all the formal jobs lost during last
year’s recession.  The country added 43,296 formal jobs in the first half of
September, bringing the total gain for 2010 to 677,373 jobs.  Still, other indicators haven’t been as positive, said
 Italo Lombardi , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in New York.  Gross fixed investment  grew only 0.6 percent in June from a
year earlier, lower than the 4.3 percent estimate by 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Retail sales  increased less
than forecast in July.  Inflation  The bank said in its statement that it expects inflation to
remain below its forecasts in the coming quarters even as it
quickens toward the end of this year.  Inflation in Mexico has remained within the bank’s  forecast 
in the second and third quarters.  Consumer prices rose  3.68 percent  in August compared with a
year earlier, a slower rate than the range of 4.75 percent to
5.25 percent forecast by the bank for the third quarter.  In the first half of September, prices rose  0.40 percent 
while the annual rate was 3.65 percent, the central bank said in
a report on its website yesterday.  Banco de Mexico on July 28 kept its inflation forecasts
unchanged through next year, as Carstens said policy makers
would wait for more economic data before making any changes to
their predictions.  Growth in Mexico, Latin America’s second-largest economy,
will be 4 percent to 5 percent, the central bank says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  