-- Mexico May Keep Rate at 4.5% With Inflation in Check, Rebound in Demand
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-09-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/mexico-may-pause-at-4-5-on-benign-inflation-rebound-in-demand.html
Mexico’s central bank will probably
extend its longest-ever interest rate pause today amid benign
inflation and signs of rebounding domestic demand.  Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led by Governor
 Agustin Carstens , will keep its  benchmark interest rate  at
4.5 percent, according to all 15 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Most economists expect the bank to remain on hold
until at least next year, leading them to focus on the statement
accompanying the decision.  The central bank may say in its statement that it doesn’t
see a double-dip recession occurring in the U.S., and that
domestic demand is starting to improve in Mexico, said  Luis Flores  at Ixe Grupo Financiero. Such comments may lead to gains
for the peso and bonds, he said.  “There’s a perception that the statement could be more
optimistic than last month,” said Flores, an economist at the
Mexico City-based firm with banking and brokerage operations.
“If it’s more optimistic, the market will like it.”  Mexico’s peso has strengthened 1.4 percent this week. The
yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bond due in 2024 fell seven
basis points yesterday 6.47 percent, according to Banco
Santander SA. The price of the security rose to 132.72 centavos
per peso.  ‘Less Dovish’  The central bank won’t raise borrowing costs until
September 2011, according to a Sept. 21 survey of economists by
Citigroup Inc.’s local Banamex unit. Economists pushed back
their forecast from a previous estimate of July 2011.  If policy makers hold today, it will be the 13th straight
pause and the longest since the bank began targeting the
overnight lending rate in 2005. The bank’s decision is scheduled
for 10 a.m. New York time.  Some better-than-expected data in the U.S. and moderate
improvement in Mexico’s domestic economy may lead to a more
upbeat assessment of the economy in today’s bank statement, said
 Italo Lombardi , an economist at BNP Paribas SA.  “It may be a little less dovish” on rates, Lombardi said
in a telephone interview. “Over the last month, the U.S. data
has surprised a little to the upside.”  The  National Bureau of Economic Research  said Sept. 20 the
worst recession since the 1930s ended in June 2009. U.S. retail
sales rose in August for the second consecutive month, and the
Institute for Supply Management’s factory index rose to a three-
month high. Companies in the U.S. added 67,000 jobs last month,
more than forecast by economists.  The peso has reacted favorably to U.S. activity this week.
It rose the most in a week on Sept. 21 after the Federal Reserve
said it’s ready to ease monetary policy further to spur economic
growth, fueling demand for emerging-market assets.  U.S. Economic Data  Even so, the pace of payroll growth in the U.S. is too slow
to make up for the loss of more than 8 million jobs caused by
the recession or spur the consumer spending that makes up more
than 70 percent of the world’s biggest economy.  Favorable domestic data in Mexico has included Finance
Minister  Ernesto Cordero ’s Sept. 20 announcement that the
country had recovered all the formal jobs lost during last
year’s recession. The country added 43,296 formal jobs in the
first half of September, bringing the total gain to 677,373 jobs
so far in 2010.  Other indicators haven’t been as positive, Lombardi said.
 Gross fixed investment  grew only 0.6 percent in June from a year
earlier, lower than the 4.3 percent estimate from 10 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Retail sales  increased less than forecast
in July.  ‘Wide Output Gap’  Domestic  demand  isn’t picking up fast enough for the
central bank to take a more optimistic tone in its statement,
said  Bertrand Delgado , an economist at Roubini Global Economics
LLC in New York.  “They’ll continue to refer to the wide  output gap ,”
Delgado said.  Inflation in Mexico has remained within the bank’s  forecast 
in the second and third quarters. Consumer prices rose  3.68
percent  in August compared with a year earlier, a slower rate
than the range of 4.75 percent to 5.25 percent forecast by the
bank for the third quarter.  In the first half of September, prices rose  0.40 percent 
while the annual rate was 3.65 percent, the central bank said in
a report on its website yesterday.  Banco de Mexico on July 28 kept its inflation forecasts
unchanged through next year, as Carstens said policy makers
would wait for more economic data before making any changes to
their predictions.  Growth in Mexico, Latin America’s second-largest economy,
will be 4 percent to 5 percent, the central bank says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  