-- Facebook's Zuckerberg Plans to Give Newark Schools $100 Million Donation
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-09-24T22:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/facebook-s-zuckerberg-announces-100-million-newark-school-gift-on-oprah-.html
Facebook Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  will donate $100 million to assist
schools in Newark, New Jersey’s largest city, under a plan he
announced today on  “The Oprah Winfrey Show.”   Zuckerberg, 26, will make the donation as a challenge grant
issued by his newly created Startup: Education Foundation, he
said today on the television program. Zuckerberg, listed as the
35th richest person in the U.S. by Forbes magazine, announced
the gift alongside Republican Governor  Chris Christie  and the
city’s Democratic mayor,  Cory Booker .  “Every child deserves a great education, and right now
that’s not happening,” said Zuckerberg, whose company owns the
world’s biggest social network. “Running a company, the main
thing I do is find great people and invest in them. That’s
really what we’re doing here.”  The district, with about 39,000 students, has been under
state control since 1995. Christie will give Booker a larger
role in running the schools, and the mayor will also get a major
say in picking a new superintendent, the governor said.  “What I’m committing to is changing schools in the city
where I was born,” said Christie, 48, who also said failing
schools deprive children of hope and lead to drug abuse and
crime. “It’s an obscenity that we’ve robbed them of their
education.”  ‘New Paradigm’  Booker, 41, a Rhodes scholar in his second term, said the
city is raising matching funds. Newark plans to use the money to
support teachers, increase accountability and promote charter
schools, he said.  “We’ve been talking for some time about trying to create a
new paradigm for education,” Booker said on the show. “That’s
what we want to do. If we as a nation keeping pulling to the
left and right, we’ll never move forward.”  The grant announcement comes the same day as the opening of
 David Fincher ’s movie about the founding of Facebook,  “The
Social Network,”  which is being screened tonight at the New
York Film Festival. Written by “West Wing” creator  Aaron Sorkin , the film portrays Zuckerberg as someone who betrayed his
friends to create Facebook, according to advance reviews.  It also coincides with the opening of another film,
 “Waiting for Superman,”  a documentary by Academy Award-winner
 Davis Guggenheim  about the crisis in U.S. public education.  Zuckerberg initiated contact with the U.S. Department of
Education after talking to Booker, said  Arne Duncan , secretary
for the department. Zuckerberg selected Newark because he
thought he could make a difference there, Duncan said.  ‘Radically Different’  “You can’t have a great city without a great school
system,” Duncan said. “If Mark is just investing in the status
quo it won’t go very far. If Mark is investing in a radically
different vision of what’s possible, Newark can emerge as a
great public school system.”  About 1 in 4 residents of Newark, a city of about 280,000,
live in poverty, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Booker has
proposed firing as many as 350 police and firefighters and
another 600 city employees in the face of a deficit of as much
as $83 million. The city’s annual education budget is about $940
million, according to the school district website.  Of the 164 chronically failing public schools in New
Jersey, 38 are in Newark, according to Derrell Bradford,
executive director of  Excellent Education for Everyone . The
group, which Booker co-founded, defines such schools as those
where 40 percent or more of the students fail state math and
language tests for two years, or 65 percent fail either test.  Zuckerberg is tied for No. 35 on the 2010 list of the 400
wealthiest Americans, according to the Forbes ranking. His
wealth jumped 245 percent to $6.9 billion, the largest
percentage increase on the annual list, the magazine said.  A former resident of Dobbs Ferry, New York, he started
Facebook in 2004 in his Harvard University dorm room. The
service has grown to more than 500 million members and is valued
at $26.3 billion on SharesPost Inc., a marketplace for closely
held companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ; 