-- Fed Dissenter Hoenig Wages Lonely Campaign Against Easy Credit
-- B y   P a u l   M .   B a r r e t t   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-09-24T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/fed-dissenter-hoenig-s-campaign-against-easy-credit-has-roots-in-prairie.html
Thomas M. Hoenig , dressed in a gray
suit, white shirt with French cuffs, and baby-blue tie, faces an
edgy crowd of 150 people in a hotel meeting room in suburban
Lenexa, Kan. A large “Kansas City Tea Party” banner covers a
table at the door. Attendees wear anti-tax stickers on their
lapels. This is not an after-dinner speech for which most
central bankers would volunteer.  Hoenig heads the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. This
year he also serves as a voting member of the powerful Federal
Open Market Committee in Washington, which controls  interest
rates  and the money supply. Many of those just now finishing
their chocolate-chip bread pudding dessert at Lenexa’s Crowne
Plaza Hotel would like to see Hoenig lose his job. Nothing
personal: They just consider the Federal Reserve an affront to
the Constitution and want to shut it down, lock, stock, and
vault.  Hoenig smiles at his audience and begins: “This is a
support-the-Fed rally, right?”  Dead silence.  Then the room erupts in laughter. Disarmed, the Tea
Partiers listen politely as Hoenig defends the Federal Reserve
as an indispensible institution, even if at the moment, he says,
it happens to be heading in the wrong direction.  And, by the way, if it were up to him (though it’s not,
really) he would break up the biggest Wall Street banks.  Respectful Appreciation  The applause starts tentatively, then builds to respectful
appreciation. Afterwards, Steve Shute, a leader of the Hope for
America Coalition, the Kansas group that sponsored the dinner,
compliments Hoenig for impressing a tough crowd. “We believe the
Federal Reserve should be abolished,” he says. It “is helping to
destroy the country.” That said, Hoenig seems like an O.K. guy.
“He is someone going toe-to-toe with  Ben Bernanke  and the
Boston-New York-Washington-San Francisco elite axis at the Fed.
He brought some Midwestern common sense to the Fed,” says Shute.
“We know he doesn’t agree with us, but we’re still proud of
him.”  This is Tom Hoenig’s moment, and it’s a strange one. In
Washington, he is the burr in Fed Chairman Bernanke’s saddle:
the rogue heartland banker who keeps dissenting alone -- for the
sixth straight time on Sept. 21 -- to protest the Fed’s rock-
bottom interest-rate policy. Hoenig warns that the Bernanke
majority is setting the country up for an as-yet-unknown asset
bubble: the next dot-com or  subprime  craze. He can’t tell yet
where the boom-and-bust will materialize, but he can feel it
coming, like a Missouri wheat farmer senses in his bones the
storm that’s just over the horizon.  Less Eccentric  Hoenig’s outlying position seemed less eccentric earlier
this year, when the recovery had more zip. “To continue to hold
it through the kind of deterioration in the economy we’ve seen
the past couple of months is, to me, quite puzzling,” says Lyle
Gramley, a Federal Reserve governor in the 1980s who works as a
senior economic adviser with Potomac Research Group in
Washington.  Paul Krugman , the Princeton University Nobel
laureate and New York Times columnist, has written that Hoenig
and a couple of other Fed presidents from the provinces have
intimidated Bernanke out of taking more aggressive steps to
stimulate job growth.  “I think that’s nonsense,” Hoenig fires back. His
irritation reveals how much he takes the disagreement to heart.
Says  Richard W. Fisher , president of the Dallas Fed and a Hoenig
friend: “I know Tom anguishes over this. He and I have talked
about it.”  Plainspoken Rebellion  Hoenig’s plainspoken rebellion has put him in the
headlines, on cable television, and, in some cases, in the
crosshairs for vituperative attacks. “In this environment, with
9.6 percent unemployment, Hoenig’s position is just friggin’
nuts,” says  Dirk Van Dijk , director of research at Zacks
Investment Research in Chicago. “His idea for tightening
monetary policy is roughly equivalent to a doctor giving
anticoagulants to a patient suffering from severe internal
bleeding.”  Part of Hoenig’s pain comes from being typecast as a
heartless inflation hawk, indifferent to the common man who
can’t find work. The son of an Iowa plumber, he argues that it’s
not primarily inflation he fears but the reckless borrowing and
distortions engendered by sustained low interest rates. The hard
truth, in his view, is that there just isn’t much more the Fed
can do to help, and we all ought to admit that.  Harsh Critic  While persisting in this lonely campaign for the end to
ultra-easy credit, Hoenig has also been a harsh critic of Wall
Street excess (an issue on which he and Krugman mostly agree).
In abundant speeches and articles, Hoenig has condemned the
political influence of the financial elite. “We’ve had a
Treasury Secretary from Goldman Sachs under a Democratic
President and a Treasury Secretary from Goldman Sachs under a
Republican President. The outcomes were not good,” Hoenig says
while being driven to a luncheon talk at an affordable housing
conference in Topeka, Kan.  All of this -- the prairie populism, foreboding about
bubbles, and glass-half-full economic perspective -- has made
Hoenig a hero in the seven-state Kansas City Federal Reserve
District (Kansas, Colorado, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Wyoming, the
northern half of New Mexico, and the western third of Missouri).
“Tom has seen the good, the bad, and the ugly, so people listen
to him out here,” says Terry Moore, the president of the Omaha
Federation of Labor of the AFL-CIO and a member of Hoenig’s
board of directors at the Kansas City Fed. Moore acknowledges
that unions generally have pushed for a degree of monetary
stimulus that Hoenig resists. But the AFL-CIO leader trusts the
banker: “We feel like Tom represents a heartland view of the
economy you don’t necessarily get from New York or Washington.
He’s an old farm boy from Iowa, and we like that.”  Corn Farmers  Hoenig, 64, the grandson of corn and wheat farmers, doesn’t
affiliate with a political party, doesn’t give campaign
contributions, and definitely won’t say who got his vote for
President in 2008. A product of Catholic schools and Benedictine
College in Atchison, Kan., he served in a combat artillery unit
in Vietnam, and has spent his entire 38-year career at the
Kansas City Fed. One reason he is speaking out now, he says, is
that he has only 12 months before mandatory retirement will
force him to leave, and he has decided he won’t go quietly.  In the middle of the country, economic conditions are
better than on the coasts. Lifted by exports, agriculture is
booming. That helps explain Hoenig’s instinct that it’s time to
get interest rates off zero.  ‘Something Undignified’  As popular as he is in the region, there are plenty who
disagree. “It seems odd to me that with 200 economists at the
Federal Reserve in Washington, that Tom Hoenig has discovered
some wisdom that escaped all of those people,” says Lou Barnes,
a veteran banker who tracks the Fed for Premier Mortgage Group
in Boulder, Colo. “There’s something undignified about all the
dissenting and the questions it raises. … It makes you wonder
whether he’s grandstanding.”  Hoenig grew up in Fort Madison, Iowa. Locals called it
Pen City because it was home to both the state penitentiary and
the original Sheaffer Pen factory. Maximum-security inmates
still reside in Fort Madison; the pen company is now owned by
Société BIC. Hoenig carries only black Sheaffer fountain pens in
his shirt pocket.  The second-oldest of seven siblings, he started taking
inventory for his father’s contracting business at the age of 9.
“I don’t know if it was legal or not,” he says, reminiscing in
the wood-paneled library off his office on the 14th floor of the
grand limestone Fed building overlooking downtown Kansas City,
Mo. A thousand people work for Hoenig here, ranging from PhD
economists to the technicians who oversee the automatic
forklifts moving pallets of $100 bills in and out of the
spotless first-floor vault.  Expenses, Revenues  Economics was a natural part of Hoenig’s childhood: “You
basically kept expenses within revenues. That’s what you were
taught … and you saved.”  He enjoyed economics more for the mechanics than as an
ideological template. After Vietnam, he obtained a PhD at Iowa
State. Asked for an intellectual influence, he offers  Milton Friedman , but adds that it was the University of Chicago
scholar’s empirical history of U.S. monetary policy that he
found inspiring, not Friedman’s anti-regulatory passions. Hoenig
joined the Fed staff in 1973 in Kansas City, hometown of his
wife, Cynthia. They raised two sons, Michael, a lawyer, and
Alex, who works in commercial real estate.  Lower Profiles  The D.C.-based governors of the Federal Reserve -- seven at
full strength -- are Presidential appointees, subject to Senate
confirmation. They serve 14-year terms and direct monetary
policy through the Federal Open Market Committee. The presidents
of the 12 regional Fed banks, by contrast, are chosen and
employed by the banks’ private-sector directors. The regional
banks are public-private hybrids: They both regulate and provide
services to for-profit banks. The quasi-private-sector regional
presidents have lower profiles than the politically appointed
Fed governors, but the presidents are much better paid. Hoenig,
who has held his current post since 1991, making him the
longest-serving president, earned $374,400 in 2009. Bernanke
earned $196,700.  Hoenig relishes the memory of his early years at the Kansas
City Fed in the 1970s. For a bookish young economist, writing
reports on competitive conditions for agricultural finance was
as good as it gets. Later in the decade, he moved up to hands-on
bank supervision, around the time that low rates ignited
aggressive bank lending in the Midwest and sharp runups in the
prices of agricultural land and domestic oil and gas operations.
Those real estate and energy bubbles burst with a vengeance in
the early 1980s, forcing thousands of farms into foreclosure,
pushing small towns to the brink of depression, and bringing
down 347 banks in the Kansas City Fed’s district from 1982 to
1992.  Bank Funerals  Working with colleagues at the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., Hoenig personally helped administer more than 100
funerals for failed community banks. He recalls a memorable July
4 weekend in 1982 in his office at the Kansas City Fed, poring
over the books of Penn Square Bank, an especially reckless
Oklahoma City energy lender. Its executives pleaded for a
bailout. “It’s not salvageable,” Hoenig, then an assistant vice-
president, recalls telling his bosses. They let Penn Square go
under. The Oklahoma City contagion spread to numerous larger
banks that had purchased Penn Square’s loans. The debacle
contributed to the collapse two years later of giant Continental
Illinois in Chicago, the largest bank failure in U.S. history
until the crisis of 2008.  Easy Credit  “What I took from that,” says Hoenig, “was that it followed
a period of very easy credit. It followed a period when people
felt prices could only go up.” Feel-good rates, in other words,
led to excessive leverage and crisis. “I find it very
interesting today,” Hoenig continues, “how many people don’t
remember the late 1970s-early 1980s.”  Under the leadership of then-Chairman  Alan Greenspan , the
Fed drove rates down in response to the dot-com crash of 2000
and the recession that followed. Hoenig had a turn as a voting
member of the FOMC in 2001 and dissented twice that year from
rate-lowering moves, even after the September 11 terrorist
attacks exacerbated the economic slowdown. Greenspan and
Bernanke, who assumed the Fed chairmanship in 2006, have
insisted that easy-credit policies during the early 2000s didn’t
contribute to the housing bubble and Wall Street crisis. Hoenig
disagrees. “The low rates in that era accommodated too much
borrowing, too much leverage, too much risk-taking,” he says.  Powerful Misgivings  Hoenig harbors powerful misgivings over not dissenting more
often and more forcefully during the Greenspan years. “He
regrets going along with the votes when Alan Greenspan was
chairman to get  rates  so low and keeping them so low so long,”
says his friend Fisher. In an interview, Greenspan says: “He’s a
person with an independent point of view.” He declined to
comment on Hoenig’s regret about his votes. Bernanke declined to
comment for this article.  The crisis of 2008 required extraordinary actions from the
Fed to head off a global depression, Hoenig acknowledges. These
included bank bailouts, huge asset purchases to boost liquidity,
and severe interest-rate cuts meant to stimulate hiring and
growth. Beginning in the third quarter of 2009, however, he
started urging his Fed colleagues at their periodic meetings in
Washington to send a signal that they would “renormalize” by
slowly moving rates up. In 2010, Hoenig was empowered with his
once-every-three-years turn to vote -- and decided to use it.  Modest Recovery  His argument, in brief: Despite continuing high
unemployment, a modest recovery is actually under way. Personal
income and expenditures are up in 2010, if only slightly.
Businesses are slowly adding back jobs, more than 700,000 so far
this year. But the Fed has consistently maintained that near-
zero interest rates are here indefinitely. “In trying to use
policy as a cure-all,” he said in a speech to the Chamber of
Commerce in Lincoln, Neb., on Aug. 13, “we will repeat the cycle
of severe recession and unemployment in a few short years by
keeping rates too low for too long.”  This is a minority view within the economics fraternity.
Most experts are fixated on persistently high unemployment and
the danger of the country slipping back into recession. In a
column in The New York Times on Aug. 12 entitled “Paralysis at
the Fed,” Krugman asserted that Bernanke “is being political,
unwilling to engage in open confrontation with other Fed
officials -- especially those regional Fed presidents who fear
inflation, even with deflation the clear and present danger.”  Expressing Sympathy  Hoenig counters that Krugman simply wants Bernanke to
“agree with Paul and then make everyone else agree with Paul.”
Hoenig says he cannot push around anyone in Washington. If
anything, he seems frustrated that other voting FOMC members who
have expressed sympathy for his views are still backing Bernanke
when it comes time to vote. “I’m a human being. I think I’m
right, or I wouldn’t vote that way,” he says. “If they agree
with me, I wish they would join me.”  The Fed’s internal deliberations take place in a decorous
atmosphere. Visiting regional presidents stay in the same West
End hotel, the Fairmont, and eat breakfast together at the white
marble Fed building on Constitution Avenue, Northwest.
Conversation is friendly, arm-twisting nonexistent, Hoenig says.
“No one has ever lobbied me, and I have never lobbied anyone.”
The Fed governors and regional presidents each have an
opportunity to present their view of the economy and, after a
break for lunch, their prescription for monetary policy. Under
rules established by Bernanke, participants raise one hand to
get on a list to speak and two hands if they wish to interrupt a
colleague for clarification or to dispute a point. “I’ve done it
on occasion,” Hoenig says.  ‘Very Practical’  Some former colleagues wonder aloud what is driving Hoenig
to register repeated objections to Bernanke’s leadership. “He’s
a very practical, cautious person, I would say not given to
dissenting easily,” says  Robert McTeer , who served as Dallas Fed
president from 1991 through 2004. Hoenig’s position made more
sense earlier in the year, when the economy looked stronger,
McTeer adds. “I think he’s hung up on this issue now in ways
that make it difficult for him to back off,” says Gramley, the
former Fed governor.  Hoenig’s actions become more comprehensible if one attends
a breakfast gathering of community bankers at the Kansas City
Fed. He hosted such an affair in early September. While
attendees sip coffee,  Bruce A. Schriefer , president of Bankers’
Bank of Kansas in Wichita, rises to ask, only half-jokingly,
whether one day soon he and his fellow executives “will all be
working for Goldman Sachs or Wal-Mart?”  Regional Pride  “I understand,” Hoenig murmurs. Throughout the morning,
the sense of regional pride, even defiance, is palpable. Hoenig,
sounding like an old-time football coach, tells his guests that
the more than 1,000 small banks they represent have a
“fundamentally sound” business model and serve the noble cause
of nurturing Main Street. The little guys need to stick
together.  Another reason Hoenig wants to end super-low interest rates
is that Wall Street banks and large corporations are currently
able to borrow for almost nothing and either hoard cash, make
acquisitions, or invest in long-term Treasuries for a guaranteed
profit. Retirees and other bank depositors effectively subsidize
this borrowing and earn almost nothing on their savings. “It’s a
distortion, and it favors the large institutions over the
smaller ones and Wall Street over the saver,” Hoenig says in an
interview. “I just don’t like it. It’s not fair.”  Financial Legislation  When community banks stumble, he adds, they are allowed to
fail. When Wall Street collapsed, it got a heroic rescue. “I
would break them up,” Hoenig says of Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan
Chase  & Co., and  Bank of America Corp . “They’re too big. They
have too much political influence. When they get in trouble
again, the temptation to rescue them because they are ‘too big
to fail’ will be very strong.” The financial reform legislation
enacted in July wasn’t tough enough; he would have liked to see
the Glass-Steagall Act’s separation of commercial and investment
banking revived, along with the imposition of strict capital
requirements on the banks by Congress.  Despite his dissent on monetary policy, Hoenig argues that
a strong central bank is vital. At the Tea Party dinner in
Lenexa, he says: “I know many of you believe in ‘End the Fed.’”
That’s your prerogative, he continues. But “you better have
something else in mind” as a replacement. He gives a quick and
chilling history lesson of U.S. financial panics before the Fed
system was created in 1913.  Some Not Convinced  Some in the audience are not convinced. A bearded man
approaches Hoenig after the talk and suggests that the Fed is
part of a conspiracy “to collapse the United States” and
establish a “one-world financial system.”  Hoenig wearily shakes his head. This is his third public
event of the day, and it is 9 p.m. “Sir, I know times are
tough,” the central banker says, “but why in the world would we
do that?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul M. Barrett at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hugo Lindgren in New York 
 hlindgren@bloomberg.net  