-- Fernandez Yields at Post-Restructuring Low as GDP Surges: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-09-24T21:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/fernandez-yields-at-post-restructuring-low-as-gdp-surges-argentina-credit.html
Yields on Argentine benchmark bonds
are falling to the lowest level since they were issued in a
defaulted debt exchange in June as forecasts for the fastest
 economic expansion  since 1992 bolster investor confidence.  The yield on 8.75 percent dollar bonds due in 2017 dropped
to 9.43 percent this week, down from a high of 13.08 percent on
June 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Argentine
dollar bonds have returned 5.2 percent this month, compared with
a 0.4 percent advance for emerging-market debt, as of 4:40 p.m.
New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Yields fell to the lowest level on Sept. 21 as Royal Bank
of Canada joined Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and
Credit Suisse Group AG in ramping up its growth forecast for
South America’s second-biggest economy. RBC lifted its 2010
estimate to 9.2 percent from 6.5 percent amid surging commodity
exports. In August, industrial production rose 1.6 percent from
July, the biggest monthly gain in at least a year, the Latin
America Economic Research Foundation said.  “Growth numbers coming out of Argentina, economic data,
have been relatively strong,” said  David Bessey , who helps
manage more than $10 billion of emerging-market debt at
Prudential Financial in Newark, New Jersey. “It seems like
investors are feeling more comfortable with Argentina than they
were a couple of weeks ago.”  Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  delayed a $1 billion sale of
2017 bonds as part of Argentina’s $12.9 billion debt
restructuring in June, saying the country would wait for yields
to fall below 10 percent. Finance Undersecretary  Adrian Cosentino  said Sept. 15 the country was in “no hurry” to
return to international markets.  ‘Magic Number’  “That magic number is now lower,” said  Eduardo Suarez , an
emerging-markets strategist at RBC in Toronto. The yield on the
2017 bond may fall to 8 percent by year-end, he said.  A new sale of the 2017 bonds, issued to compensate
creditors for past due interest, would be Argentina’s first
issue in international markets since it defaulted on a record
$95 billion in debt in 2001. An investment bank offered
yesterday during a meeting with Boudou in New York to arrange
the sale of $1 billion worth of five-year bonds at 8.75 percent,
Buenos Aires-based newspaper Ambito Financiero reported today.
Boudou’s press office confirmed today that the meeting took
place.  The country isn’t interested in selling bonds abroad at a
rate of 8 percent or 8.75 percent, Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  told reporters in New York today.  Argentine bonds may slump if global growth flags and
prompts investors to shun higher-yielding, emerging-market
assets, according to  Jim Craige , who helps manage about $17
billion of emerging-market assets at Stone Harbor Investment
Partners in New York.  ‘Double Dip’  “If there’s a hint of a double dip anywhere in the world
and there’s a reaction to that, then Argentina” as a proxy for
global growth will “definitely suffer,” Craige said.  The central bank forecasts Argentina’s economy will grow as
much as 9.5 percent in 2010, the most since 1992.  Central bank President  Mercedes Marco  del Pont, who backed
the government’s use of $6.6 billion in international  reserves 
to pay debt, was nominated on Sept. 22 to remain in her post
after her term was set to expire the next day. President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  designated Marco del Pont to keep
running the bank until a Senate vote on her nomination,
according to a statement on the presidential  website .  Fernandez plans to tap a further $7.5 billion of reserves
to pay debt in 2011, Boudou said when he presented next year’s
budget to Congress on Sept. 16.  Buenos Aires, Argentina’s biggest province, plans to sell
benchmark dollar bonds maturing in five years and officials will
finish meeting with bond investors today, according to a person
familiar with the transaction who declined to be identified
because he’s not allowed to speak publicly. A benchmark sale is
typically at least $500 million in size.  IMPSA Sale  Industrias Metalurgicas Pescarmona SA, an Argentine
manufacturer of turbines and generators, issued $275 million of
10-year bonds to yield 10.75 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The peso fell 0.2 percent today to 3.9601 per dollar.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt rose
20 basis points yesterday to 770. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Warrants linked to growth in Argentina’s economy fell 0.03
cent today to 11.63 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 33 basis points to 667,
according to JPMorgan. The spread is the biggest after Venezuela
and Ecuador.  “As long as investors continue to feel comfortable about
the credit and there’s a need out there for higher-yielding
product, then I think Argentina will continue to do well,”
Prudential’s Bessey said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  