-- Financial Technologies Falls as Regulator Rejects Plan to Set up Exchange
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-09-24T07:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/financial-technologies-falls-as-regulator-rejects-plan-to-set-up-exchange.html
Financial Technologies (India) Ltd. 
is set for its biggest decline in almost two years after the
nation’s stock market regulator rejected an application by a
unit to set up a bourse for trading securities.  The shares declined 10.1 percent, heading for their biggest
one-day drop since October 2008, to 1,234.95 rupees as of 12:44
p.m. local time in Mumbai. The stock was the  worst performer  on
the Bombay Stock Exchange 200 Index today.  The MCX Stock Exchange Ltd.’s two controlling holders have
an excessively large stake in the bourse, the Securities &
Exchange Board of India said in an  order  yesterday. The bourse,
which has traded currencies since October 2008, sought
permission in April to deal in securities including derivatives
and equities to compete with the nation’s two main exchanges.  “The concentration of economic interest in a recognized
stock exchange in the hands of two promoters is not in the
interest of a well-regulated securities market,” K.M. Abraham,
a member at the regulator, said in the order. The Multi
Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. and  Financial Technologies  each
hold 5 percent of the bourse.  The exchange’s two founders are “persons acting in
concert” and should therefore be limited to jointly holding a
maximum of 5 percent of the bourse, according to the regulator’s
order yesterday. India caps ownership at 5 percent for a single
investor in a bourse, though some financial institutions can
hold up to 15 percent.  Studying Order  “We are studying the lengthy order in all its aspects and
will take appropriate measure in consultation with our legal
counsel,”  MCX Stock Exchange  said in an e-mailed statement
today. “We have confidence and respect in the resilience of our
judiciary and the appellate forums and are sure that justice
will be done to us in the near future. Until such time, we would
continue to work on our currency derivative segment.”  MCX’s controlling stakeholders have also entered into
contracts with buy-back arrangements that are in the nature of
forward contracts, and these are illegal, the ruling said.  “The conduct of the applicant and its aforesaid promoters
lacks honesty and therefore they are not fit and proper for the
grant of the application,” Abraham said in the ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  