-- Foreigners Bet $14 Billion on Mantega Failing to Curb Real: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-09-24T21:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/foreigners-bet-14-billion-on-mantega-failing-to-curb-real-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega’s  failure to stem a currency rally spurred by  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA’s  $70 billion share sale is leading international
investors to make a $14 billion wager on the real.  Foreigners made 284,967 more bets on the real rising than
falling versus the dollar on Sept. 22, the most since June 2007,
according to futures contracts trading at BMFBovespa SA exchange
in Sao Paulo. With each contract worth $50,000, the net bullish
wagers equal about $14 billion. As recently as June,
international investors were  betting  the real would decline.  Mantega is seeking to stem a four-month rally that has
extended the real’s advance to 35 percent since the end of 2008,
the second biggest among emerging-market currencies after the
South African rand. Mantega, 61, vowed in a Sept. 15 speech that
Brazil would “not lose this game,” saying the government can
join the central bank in buying dollars to shore up exports
after the country’s  current account deficit  surged to a record
$45.8 billion in the past 12 months.  “The pressure for the currency appreciation is structural,
something that the government cannot fight in the long term,”
 Roberto Melzi , a strategist at Barclays Plc in New York, said in
a telephone interview. “The inflows will continue.”  The central bank has been stepping up dollar purchases as
investors poured money into the country to participate in
yesterday’s record share sale by  Petroleo Brasileiro , the state-
run oil company. Banco Central do Brasil bought $5.9 billion in
the first 12 days of September, the most in 11 months, according
to  Altamir Lopes , head of the bank’s economic department.  Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said during an
event in New York today that policy makers are ready to act in
the foreign-exchange market as Petrobras’s share offering
attracted “considerable” dollar inflows.  Growth Surge  The real is also rallying as record low borrowing costs in
the U.S. and Europe prompt investors to seek higher returns in
faster-growing developing nations. Brazil, Latin America’s
biggest economy, will expand more than 7 percent this year for
the first time since 1986, according to a central bank survey of
analysts. The country’s 10.75 percent benchmark lending rate is
more than 900 basis points, or 9 percentage points, higher than
the key rates in the U.S., U.K., Japan and euro zone.  “The search for yield is still in place,” Melzi said.  Barclays predicts the real will advance to 1.7 per dollar
over the next six months from 1.7230 yesterday. The real touched
a nine-month high of 1.7031 on Sept. 14. It has advanced 0.5
percent this week, heading for its sixth straight weekly gain,
the longest streak since October when the government imposed
taxes on foreign investors in Brazil’s stocks and bonds to curb
the real’s rally.  ‘No Argument’  Foreign investors’ holdings of local government debt rose
in August to a record 150.6 billion reais, or 10.1 percent of
the total, from 141 billion reais in July,  Fernando Garrido ,
head of the Public Debt Operations Department at the Treasury,
said in Brasilia yesterday. Brazilian companies have taken
advantage of the record low rates in developed countries by
raising $29 billion in international bond markets this year, up
from $22 billion in all of 2009.  “Against inflows, there’s no argument,”  Alex Agostini ,
chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Austin Rating Classificadora,
said in a telephone interview. “There’s little the government
can do to stop the real’s advance.”  Mantega, who’s served as President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s  finance minister since 2006, won approval on Sept. 20 to
use a sovereign wealth fund containing 17.9 billion reais to
purchase dollars, adding to the central bank’s intervention. He
said on Sept. 15 in Rio de Janeiro that the Treasury can tap
“unlimited resources” from the fund to buy the U.S. currency.  “Brazil has billions of reais to buy dollars,” Agostini
said. “But the world has trillions of dollars to invest.”  Gerdau, Braskem  Paulo Valle , an undersecretary at the Treasury, which
reports to Mantega, declined to comment yesterday.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, today to
10.66 percent. The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 11 basis points to
203, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell four basis points to 117, according to CMA
DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Colombia, Thailand  Gerdau SA, Latin America’s largest steelmaker, sold $1.25
billion of bonds that mature in 2021 to yield 5.875 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Braskem SA,
Latin America’s largest petrochemicals producer, plans to sell
perpetual bonds overseas as soon as next week, according to a
person familiar with the offering.  Central banks from Colombia to Thailand are boosting
currency intervention to weaken their exchange rates. Colombia’s
central bank said on Sept. 15 that it will buy at least $20
million daily for four months or more after the peso surged 13
percent this year. Thailand’s central bank said on Sept. 20 it
has won government approval to ease restrictions on capital
outflows to ease gains in the baht.  “Market interventions help to slow down the process, but
they don’t reverse the trend,” said  Pablo Cisilino , who helps
manage $14 billion in emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor
Investment Partners in New York. “It’s not a problem specific
to Brazil. Central banks are all intervening, but no central
bank can reverse the trend.”  ‘Very Difficult’  Meirelles  said Sept. 20 that there’s little policy makers
can do to slow the dollar’s declines across the globe as the
U.S. economy struggles. The dollar has fallen against all 25
emerging-market countries in the past three months except the
Argentine peso.  Economists have raised their year-end forecast for the real
for three straight weeks, predicting it will trade at 1.75 per
dollar by Dec. 31, according to a central bank survey released
on Sept. 20. The median forecast in August was 1.8.  “It’s very difficult for a central bank to bring to a halt
the currency appreciation,”  Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “They’ve been trying for a long time to
stem the currency appreciation and the currency keeps rising.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  