-- Sarkozy, French Unions Head for Showdown on Plan to Raise Retirement Age
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-09-24T12:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/french-labour-unions-set-dates-for-pension-protests-as-fillon-says-no-.html
French unions set a pair of
demonstrations against President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plan to raise
the retirement age as the government rejected retreat. Protests
on Oct. 2 and 12 would follow strikes yesterday and Sept. 7.  “We warn the government not to ignore growing anger in the
streets,” Nadine Prigent, a member of the executive board of
the CGT union, told reporters today.  Speaking to a party rally in the Atlantic town of Biarritz,
Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said he won’t bow to union
demands to withdraw the pension bill.  “Governing involves listening to everyone but sometimes it
also involves saying ‘no,’” Fillon said. “We will not withdraw
the reform because it is reasonable and necessary.”  The Senate begins debating the proposal Oct. 4. The
 National Assembly  this month passed Sarkozy’s pension bill,
which raises the retirement age to 62 from 60 and the age for a
full pension to 67 from 65. Unions want the retirement age to
stay at 60. The government says it has made enough concessions
to allow people who started work as teenagers to retire at 60.  Nationwide, police said 997,000 people marched in more than
200 demonstrations yesterday, down from 1.1 million two weeks
ago. Unions said 3 million people marched, up from 2.7 million.  The Oct. 2 strike and demonstration will take place on a
Saturday.  Francois Chereque , head of the CFDT union, has argued
for a Saturday protest, saying it won’t penalize workers who
don’t get paid for strike days and will encourage participation.  Fewer Strikers  Both sides agreed there were fewer strikers yesterday. The
 Paris metro system  said operations were close to normal, with
service at 85 percent. The number of strikers among postal
workers and teachers fell.  La Poste , the state-owned mail and banking system, reported
16.5 percent workers struck, down from 23 percent on Sept. 7.
The Ministry of Education reported 25.8 percent of teachers on
strike, down from 29 percent.  The state pension fund will lose 10.7 billion euros ($13.6
billion) this year, with the shortfall reaching 50 billion euros
in 2020 without a change in policy, according to the Budget
Ministry. Unions and the opposition Socialist Party want to plug
losses through higher taxes on capital and on high earners.  Opposition to tighter pension rules sparked extended
strikes in 2003 and 2007. In 1995, President  Jacques Chirac 
dropped an attempt to eliminate retirement privileges for
transport workers after walkouts crippled the country.  France’s legal retirement age has been 60 since Socialist
President  Francois Mitterrand  cut it from 65 after his 1981
election. Germany decided in 2007 to raise its retirement age
gradually to 67 from 65. Spain and Italy have also increased
their retirement ages to 65 to address the squeeze of longer
life expectancies and declining birth rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  