-- GDF, Telefonica Lead European Sales of Long-Dated Bonds to Most In  a Year
-- B y   S o n j a   C h e u n g   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-09-24T09:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/gdf-telefonica-lead-sales-of-long-dated-bonds-to-most-in-year.html
GDF Suez SA ,  Telefonica SA  and
 TeliaSonera AB  pushed sales of bonds maturing in 10 years or
more to the highest in a year as investors take advantage of the
higher returns on offer.  Borrowers raised 19 billion euros ($25 billion) from the
securities so far this month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, the most since 25 billion euros of longer-dated notes
were sold last September.  GDF Suez , owner of Europe’s biggest
natural gas network, issued 50-year notes, Spain’s Telefonica
offered 19-year securities, while Stockholm-based TeliaSonera
sold 15-year bonds.  Pension funds and insurance companies are seeking to lock
in the higher yields offered by longer-dated notes to match
their future payment liabilities. The attraction of government
bonds has waned as yields slump, with German 10-year bunds
offering 2.29 percent.  “There is this big duration extension trade going on for
investors such as insurance companies and pension funds,” said
 Norval Loftus , chief investment officer of London-based Allegra
Asset Management. “So these longer-dated deals are geared to
this type of demand.”  Returns on investment grade company bonds maturing in 10
years or more are 13.3 percent so far this year, compared with
3.4 percent on notes due in three years or less, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The average yield
companies offer to sell debt of 10 or more years is 4 percent,
compared with 2.5 percent for notes due in one to three years,
index data show.  GDF Suez Issue  GDF Suez raised 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion) on Sept.
22 from the sale of 50-year notes priced to yield 115 basis
points more than the benchmark U.K. government gilt.  Telefonica , Europe’s second-biggest phone company, raised
400 million pounds yesterday from bonds due 2029. The notes now
trade at 165 basis points more than the December 2028 gilts
after being priced at 170 basis points, according to Bloomberg
generic prices. The bonds were issued through its Telefonica
Emisiones unit.  Telefonica pulled an issue of seven-year notes in pounds
that were initially marketed at 190 basis points more than
gilts.  TeliaSonera , Sweden’s biggest phone company, sold 500
million euros of 15-year bonds at a spread of 100 basis points
more than swaps, according to Bloomberg data. The notes
currently trade at 103 basis points, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show on Bloomberg.  Sterling Demand  “There is always ongoing demand from pension funds and
annuity funds for long-dated sterling paper and they have been
starved of issuance for the last two or three years,” said  Ian Robinson , a portfolio manager at F&C Asset Management Plc in
London where he helps manage 95 billion pounds.  Elsewhere in European debt markets,  Credit Suisse Group
AG , Switzerland’s second-largest lender, raised 1.75 billion
euros by offering five-year bonds in its first benchmark fixed-
rate issue in the currency in eight months. The notes were
priced to yield 92 basis points more than swaps, according to
Bloomberg data  Nordea Bank AB , the Nordic region’s largest lender sold 750
million euros of subordinated bonds and Italian lender  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA  sold 1 billion euros of tier 1 notes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in London at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  