-- Gekko Duels Cigar-Chomping Banker in ‘Wall Street’ Sequel: Film
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/gekko-battles-cigar-chomping-banker-in-wall-street-sequel-rick-warner.html
Gordon Gekko, once a slick-haired,
suspender-wearing master of the Wall Street universe, is now an
unshaven, bedraggled ex-convict.  As he leaves prison following an eight-year term for
financial crimes, he picks up his paltry possessions: a silk
handkerchief, a watch, a ring, a gold money clip and an ancient,
brick-shaped mobile phone.  That’s the opening of “ Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps, ”
 Oliver Stone ’s energetic, jumbled sequel to the 1987 film that
made “greed is good” a guiding principle for a new generation
of money-hungry financiers. While Gekko was sidelined, other
predators made him look like a choirboy.  Michael Douglas  reprises his role as Gekko, now gray-haired
and casually attired in open-collared shirts. He’s lost his
fortune, his wife (divorce) and his son (drug overdose), but not
his ambition. Gekko gets back in the game through an alliance
with Jake ( Shia LaBeouf ), the boyfriend of his estranged
daughter Winnie (Carey Mulligan).  Jake is a gung-ho proprietary trader whose company -- run
by his mentor ( Frank Langella ) -- is sabotaged by Bretton James
( Josh Brolin ), a smug investment banker who flaunts his wealth
by hanging Goya paintings in his office and puffing expensive
cigars.  Motorcycle Race  Jake, who’s been pushing his company to invest in
alternative energy, conspires with Gekko to bring James down.
Their interests intersect: Gekko feeds Jake insider information
he can use to hurt James, while Jake tries to help Gekko
reconcile with Winnie.  “Money Never Sleeps” and neither does this movie, which
speeds along like the motorcycle race between Jake and James in
the woods of upstate New York. Sometimes logic gets lost in the
rush. Why, for instance, would a left-wing Web muckraker like
Winnie who hates her rapacious father be attracted to another
Wall Street go-getter? I know opposites attract, but in this
case it makes more sense that they would repel.  The feel-good ending also seems false because it marks such
an abrupt change for Gekko, who built his reputation by playing
hardball, not by showing soft spots.  Still, “Money Never Sleeps” is better than most movie
sequels, primarily because the financial crisis provides a
logical follow-up. Though some of the new characters are thinly
drawn --  Susan Sarandon  as Jake’s needy mother and  Eli Wallach 
as James’s old-school boss are wasted in cameos -- Douglas holds
the film together with his devilish charm.  “Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps,” from 20th Century Fox,
is playing across the U.S. Rating: **1/2  ‘Howl’  “Howl” is an audacious movie that turns  Allen Ginsberg ’s
groundbreaking 1955 poem into a stirring visual experience.  James Franco  delivers a spellbinding performance as the
young, clean-shaven Ginsberg, narrating via a tape-recorded
interview in which he talks about his mother’s mental illness,
his own asylum nightmare, his homosexuality, Beat Generation
friends like  Jack Kerouac  and Neal Cassady and his use of
explicit sexual terms.  Wearing nerdy dark glasses, he speaks in a halting,
guttural manner. What he says, though, is eloquent, the
heartfelt expressions of a writer on the cusp of greatness.  Co-directors Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Freidman also
dramatize the 1957 obscenity trial of the poem’s publisher,
 Lawrence Ferlinghetti , and use animated illustrations of
“Howl” by Ginsberg collaborator Eric Drooker.  The courtroom scenes -- featuring  David Strathairn  as the
strait-laced prosecutor,  Jon Hamm  as the intellectual defense
attorney and  Bob Balaban  as the fair-minded judge -- are mostly
dry discussions about literary meaning and the limits of
artistic expression. Much livelier are the animated sequences
that accompany Franco’s readings of “Howl,” which capture the
poem’s hallucinatory feeling with pictures of men leaping
rooftops and chasing butterflies.  “Howl,” from Oscilloscope Laboratories, is playing in New
York and San Francisco. Rating: ***  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 