-- German Business Confidence Unexpectedly Increases
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-09-24T08:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/german-business-confidence-unexpectedly-reaches-three-year-high-this-month.html
German business confidence
unexpectedly rose to the highest level in more than three years
in September, suggesting companies can weather weaker demand
from abroad as the global economic recovery slows.  The Munich-based  Ifo institute  said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 106.8
from 106.7 in August. That’s the highest since June 2007.
Economists had expected a drop to 106.4, according to the median
of 36 forecasts in Bloomberg News  survey .  Europe’s largest economy expanded at the fastest pace in
two decades in the second quarter as companies ramped up
production to fill booming export orders. While data indicate a
loss of momentum since then, the Bundesbank this week said the
recovery “remains intact” as companies including truck maker
MAN SE raise profit forecasts and falling unemployment boosts
private consumption.  “The German economy remains the showcase of the euro
zone,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “Of course, second-quarter growth was unique and a
slowdown is inevitable. However, with richly filled order books,
increasing investment and production plans and a strong labor
market, prospects for the German economy still look promising.”  The euro rose three quarters of a cent after the report to
$1.3397 at 10:45 a.m. in Frankfurt. It has gained 5.6 percent
against the dollar in the last two weeks.  Expectations  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation increased to 109.7,
the highest since May 2008, from 108.2. A measure of executives’
expectations fell to 103.9 from 105.2.  The rise in the main index “was totally due to a jump in
the current conditions indicator,” said  Aline Schuiling , an
economist at ABN Amro in Amsterdam. “The expectations index is
a better tracker of current growth and its decline signals that
the German economy is slowing to more moderate growth rates
following its stellar performance in the first half of this
year.”  The economy expanded 2.2 percent in the second quarter,
prompting the Bundesbank to raise its 2010 growth forecast to 3
percent from 1.9 percent.  Since then, reports showed that  factory orders  unexpectedly
declined in July and  manufacturing activity  eased for a second
month in September.  U.S. Slowdown  Weaker growth and low inflation in the U.S. prompted the
Federal Reserve to signal this week that it may embark on a
second wave of unconventional monetary stimulus to support a
recovery. Expansion in the world’s largest economy will ease to
2.5 percent next year from 2.7 percent this year, according to
another survey of economists.  German companies are looking east to boost profits. SAP
AG’s co-Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said on Sep. 3
the software maker aims to make China “a second home” as local
companies seeking management tools and real-time business
intelligence will provide “limitless growth.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, said on Sep. 16 it plans to add models and start a
vehicle-leasing business in China to help boost its presence in
the world’s biggest auto market. Car exports from Germany to
China tripled in the first half of the year to 128,000, the
Federal Statistics Office  said  on Sep. 21. That exceeds the
122,000 cars shipped to China in 2009.  Debt Crisis  Germany’s strength contrasts with the weakness in some
countries on the periphery of the euro area that have been hit
by the region’s sovereign debt crisis. Ireland’s economy shrank
1.2 percent in the second quarter, a report showed yesterday.
The premium investors demand to hold  Irish  and  Portuguese 
government bonds over their German equivalents rose to records
this week.  Even as export growth slows, Germany’s recovery may be
bolstered by rising consumer spending.  To help fill orders, companies are adding staff.  Daimler
AG , which raised its 2010 operating forecast on July 27, has
taken on 1,800 temporary workers, while  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s
largest car maker, will offer permanent employment to 400 short-
term hires.  Unemployment  dropped for a 14th month in August, pushing
consumer confidence to an 11-month high in September. Germany’s
HDE retail association yesterday raised its 2010 sales growth
forecast to 1.5 percent from zero.  “We can assume that private consumption is falling into
step as impulses from foreign trade are weakening,” said  Jens Kramer , an economist at Nord LB in Hanover, Germany. “The
economy is doing well. We won’t see an output slump.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  