-- Ghana Keeps Key Interest Rate at 13.5 Percent as Fiscal Spending Increases
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2010-09-24T13:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/ghana-keeps-key-interest-rate-at-13-5-percent-as-fiscal-spending-increases.html
Ghana ’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged, following four consecutive
reductions, on concern increased government spending will add to
pressure on inflation.  The key lending rate was maintained at 13.5 percent, Bank
of Ghana Governor  Kwesi Amissah-Arthur  told reporters today in
the capital, Accra. Two of six economists surveyed by Bloomberg
had forecast the decision, while four expected a reduction.  “The risk in the outlook stems from fiscal-driven
aggregate demand pressures,” Amissah-Arthur said.  The West African nation’s budget deficit was 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the first eight months of the year,
exceeding a target by 0.1 percentage points, he said. The
shortfall will probably reach 8 percent of GDP for the full
year, up from an initial estimate of 7.5 percent, Finance
Minister  Kwabena Duffuor  said on Sept. 22.  Still, inflation eased for the 14th consecutive month in
August, reaching 9.4 percent as strength in the domestic
currency helped cut the cost of imports. Since inflation reached
a five-year peak of 20.7 percent in June 2009, the cedi has
risen 4.5 percent against the U.S. dollar.  Utility Bills  Slowing inflation prompted Amissah-Arthur to make the
central bank’s first rate cut in almost three years in November,
lowering it by half a percentage point to 18 percent. A second
cut to 16 percent followed in February, a third to 15 percent in
April and a fourth to 13.5 percent in July.  “The bank is cognizant of the upside risks to inflation
stemming from utility tariff hikes and public sector wage
pressures,”  Lisa Lewin , head of sub-Saharan Africa analysis at
Business Monitor International, said in an e-mailed comment
yesterday.  Ghana has raised state-regulated tariffs for water and
electricity in the past three months and introduced a new pay
structure for public sector workers. The policy raised this
year’s wage bill to $4.4 billion from the $3.1 billion
previously estimated, according to the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 