-- Global Vehicles Announces Plan to Order $35 Million of Mahindra Pickups
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-09-24T12:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/global-vehicles-announces-plan-to-order-35-million-of-mahindra-pickups.html
Global Vehicles USA Inc., the
Alpharetta, Georgia-based auto distributor, said it will place 
a $35 million-plus order for pickups from  Mahindra & Mahindra 
Ltd. , the Indian automaker it’s in a dispute with.  The order, to be made today, will comprise an unspecified
number of TR20 and TR40 pickups, Global Vehicles said in an e-
mailed statement. The company and about 350 dealers in 49
states have invested almost $100 million to sell the vehicles,
it said.  Global Vehicles in June asked an Atlanta federal court to
prohibit  Mahindra , India’s biggest sport-utility vehicle maker,
from conducting sales in the U.S. with any other dealer,
claiming that the Mumbai-based automaker “in bad faith”
engaged in protracted contract negotiations for services
relating to regulatory emission tests. Mahindra, which has said
that its tie-up with Global Vehicle has expired, is seeking to
have the suit dismissed.  Pawan Goenka , president of Mahindra’s automotive and farm
equipment unit and Mahindra spokeswoman  Roma Balwani  didn’t
answer calls made to their mobile phones today.  Mahindra gave the Global Vehicles “relationship its best
efforts,” it said yesterday in a  statement  on its website. The
company reiterated that it still intends to sell vehicles in
the U.S. The automaker said in August that its trucks won U.S.
emissions approvals. The company’s plans to enter the U.S. have
already been delayed by more than a year.  The case is Global Vehicles USA Inc. v. Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd., 110cv1818, U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  