-- Moody's May Downgrade GMAC Mortgage Servicer Grades After `Irregularities'
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-09-24T18:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/gmac-loan-servicing-grades-may-be-cut-by-moody-s-over-foreclosure-process.html
Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC Mortgage
division may face a downgrade to its loan-servicing grades by
Moody’s Investors Service after the ratings company cited
“irregularities” in the unit’s “foreclosure process that have
recently come to light.”  Ally said this week it found a “technical” deficiency in
its foreclosure process allowing employees to sign documents
without a notary present or with information they didn’t
personally know was true. The Detroit-based lender notified
agents and brokers on Sept. 17 that it had suspended evictions
in 23 states.  “These incidents could result in delayed foreclosures”
and longer timelines for disposing of seized properties, “as
well as reputational risk, legal challenges to previously
completed foreclosures and long-term liquidity concerns for GMAC
Mortgage,”  Linda Stesney  and Gene Berman, analysts at New York-
based Moody’s, said today in a statement.  Moody’s assigns a rating of SQ3, or “average,” to GMAC
Mortgage as a primary servicer of subprime, second-lien and high
loan-to-value residential mortgages and as a special servicer,
or overseer of distressed debt. It has an SQ3+, or a step higher
than average, rating for prime mortgages.  The analysts noted the incident comes as Ally explores a
sale of its Residential Capital LLC unit, the immediate parent
of GMAC Mortgage, which manages $380 billion of loans. Servicer
ratings affect how much investor protection ratings firms
require when  mortgages  are packaged into bonds and later reviews
of their creditworthiness.  Broken Down  Ally said earlier this week it recently became aware that
its process for ensuring foreclosures were done properly had
broken down, and that it has since been corrected. The company
said that aside from signing the affidavits without knowledge or
a notary, the details of the files were “factually accurate.”  “The impact of these servicing irregularities on the
validity of previous foreclosures and on GMAC Mortgage remains
uncertain,” the Moody’s analysts said.  For the review, “Moody’s will primarily focus on
determining the extent of the increase to foreclosure” and
seized-property “timelines and the effectiveness of new
procedures,” they said.  In a separate statement today, Moody’s said it was
affirming its SQ3+ rating on Residential Capital’s GMAC-RFC unit
as a so-called master servicer.  These firms oversee primary servicers, handling certain
administrative duties and standing by to take over servicing if
needed.  Moody’s began a review of the grade in July, because a
“number of sub-servicers over which GMAC-RFC had oversight
responsibility were commingling funds where” Residential
Capital “was the investor and trust funds in custodial bank
accounts.” Sub-servicers, firms to which master and primary
servicers outsource work, were also holding funds with banks
that Moody’s deems too risky, according to the statement. The
unit has addressed the issues, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sharon L. Lynch at 
 sllynch@bloomberg.net  