-- Gold Medal’s Sale Tests Market for Doing Right: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-09-24T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/gold-medal-sale-tests-market-for-doing-right-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
If this was almost any other piece
of memorabilia, then its future wouldn’t matter.  But this Olympic gold medal, the one being sold for the
second time, once belonged to Mark Wells, a member of the 1980
U.S. hockey team that stunned the Soviets. That medal, one of
only 20, belongs to all of us.  “It’s part of American history, part of the culture,”
said U.S. team member Ken Morrow, who was Wells’s teammate and
four-year roommate at  Bowling Green State University  in Ohio.  Poor health and business decisions prompted Wells, 53, to
sell the medallion a few years ago. He got somewhere in the
neighborhood of $40,000. Thing is, none of the players knew
about the sale, not until the medal belonged to someone who
didn’t care about their accomplishment.  “If Mark had told the team he was selling, we would’ve
bought it,” captain  Mike Eruzione  said over the telephone.
Eruzione, who now works in the athletic department at his alma
mater, Boston University, added that he wouldn’t have returned
the medal to Wells because he’d probably sell it again.  Wells, through  USA Hockey , couldn’t be reached to discuss
the matter.  Morrow, who in the course of a few months won Olympic gold
and the Stanley Cup with the New York Islanders, still believes
in perfect endings. So he holds out hope that Wells’s medal this
time won’t wind up in some collector’s safe-deposit box,
appreciating, when it should be made public, where it can be
appreciated.  The medal is being reduced to dollars when it’s really
about daydreamers and, thank you  Al Michaels , believing in
miracles.  Winning Shot  For  Morrow , the reminders of what that game and that team
meant to people just keep coming, even 30 years later, in a
letter or two every day in the mail box. Every day.  The medal is about remembering where you were when
Eruzione, eruption in Italian, shook the Olympics with a wrist
shot, a goal that beat the Soviets and lifted a nation. This is
about gas lines, American hostages in Iran, Soviet troops in
Afghanistan and a motley crew of college kids giving their
fellow citizens a reason to feel good.  That’s what’s for sale.  Only the seller doesn’t care about all that. Nostalgia
means nothing. He invested. He isn’t invested. Big difference.  The seller, who wishes to remain anonymous, figures the
publicity surrounding the 30-year anniversary of the “Miracle
on Ice” makes this a good time to unload.  He wants at least $125,000, said Phil Castinetti, owner of
 Sportsworld , a memorabilia outfit in Saugus, Massachusetts,
charged with selling the medal. The other day Castinetti fielded
20 calls about it. “Serious people, too,” he said.  Conflict of Business  Castinetti, to his credit, admits to uneasiness in his
chosen profession, the buying and selling of other people’s
accomplishments. Feels funny every time a deal closes, he said.  The seller, meantime, just wants to get paid.  “Most collectors are like Wall Street people,” Castinetti
said. “They just want the most money.”  Let’s find out if that’s true, although something tells me
even the buy-low, sell-high set will side with medal over money
on this one.  Eruzione says several players have talked about ways to
have the medal donated to the  Hockey Hall of Fame , which is
located in Toronto. Good idea. But there’s a better one.  There’s plenty of discussion about the medal among
executives at the 1932 & 1980 Lake Placid Winter Olympic Museum.
Yes, such a place exists.  ‘Should Be Displayed’  For 5 bucks -- $3 for kids 12 and under and adults over 65
-- you can gaze at memorabilia from the two Olympic Games staged
in New York’s Adirondacks.  “That medal should be displayed in this museum,” said Liz
De Fazio, the  museum ’s director.  She is thinking even bigger, though. The museum, should it
somehow acquire the keepsake, would at some point return it to
Wells or his family. The humanitarian thing to do, she said.  So let’s make it happen. What better anniversary present
could there be than to honor those players than to save the
medal through teamwork?  The museum is willing and able to kick in “a bit,” De
Fazio said, but it’ll need help. Turns out donations to the
museum are tax deductible. Lo and behold, the New York Olympic
Regional Development Authority has corporate partners that
include  Coca-Cola Co. ,  General Motors Co. ,  Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s Citizens Bank. Surely
they can help.  Mostly, though, this should be a grassroots effort. A few
bucks here, a few bucks there from folks who remember where they
were and how they felt when the U.S. beat the Soviets and went
on to somehow fit every player on the medal podium.  It’d be satisfying to prove Castinetti and his everyone-on-
Wall-Street theory wrong, all while doing something that’s
right.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  