-- Google, Apple, Intel Said Poised for U.S. Agreement on Hiring
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-09-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/google-apple-intel-said-poised-for-u-s-agreement-on-hiring.html
Google Inc. ,  Apple Inc.  and four
other technology companies agreed not to limit their efforts to
hire each other’s employees, a practice the U.S. Justice
Department said can unfairly depress salaries.  Intel Corp. ,  Adobe Systems Inc. ,  Walt Disney Co. ’s Pixar
animation unit and  Intuit Inc.  are also part of the accord that
halts agreements under which companies refrained from placing
“cold calls” to lure workers from competitors, the Justice
Department said yesterday. In a settlement filed in federal
court, the department said the companies kept do-not-call lists
to avoid such recruiting.  “The agreements eliminated a significant form of
competition to attract highly skilled employees, and overall
diminished competition to the detriment of affected employees,”
the department said in a statement yesterday.  The department conducted an antitrust investigation into
recruiting and hiring practices that involved some of the
biggest U.S. technology companies. The agency said it is
continuing to investigate other “no solicitation” agreements,
without giving details.  The settlement isn’t as broad as some in the technology
sector expected, and it doesn’t include fines, said  Robert Lande , director of the  American Antitrust Institute , a
Washington group that favors tougher enforcement.  The prospect of fines and other punishments “created lots
of fear,” he said.  The companies may still be threatened with lawsuits from
people who claim they missed out on higher-paying jobs because
of the recruiting practices, Lande said. “For the six
companies, it’s not over,” he said.  Microsoft, IBM  Spokesmen for Microsoft Corp. and International Business
Machines Corp. said last week that they were no longer part of
the investigation.  “Intel does not believe its actions violated the law, nor
does the company agree with the allegations,”  Chuck Mulloy , a
spokesman for the Santa Clara, California-based company said in
an e-mailed statement. “The company is settling the matter
because it believes it would not harm the company or its ability
to do business.”  The settlement won’t have a “significant impact” on
business, said  Diane Carlini , a spokeswoman for Intuit, based in
Mountain View, California.  “We have agreed to disagree with the DOJ on the issue of
any wrongdoing in this matter,” Carlini said in a statement.  Amy Lambert, associate general counsel of employment for
Mountain View-based Google, said the company and “a number of
other tech companies” had no-cold-call policies.  Policy Abandoned  “While there’s no evidence that our policy hindered hiring
or affected wages, we abandoned our ‘no-cold-calling’ policy in
late 2009 once the Justice Department raised concerns, and are
happy to continue with this approach as part of this
settlement,” she  wrote  on the company’s policy blog.  Adobe’s recruiting practices didn’t violate antitrust laws,
said  Holly Campbell , a spokeswoman for the company based in San
Jose, California.  “We have elected to settle this matter in order to avoid
the cost and distraction of litigation,” she said in a
statement.  The Justice Department said that in May 2005, senior Adobe
and Apple executives agreed not to cold-call each other’s
employees. Adobe was placed on an internal Apple do-not-call
list, while Adobe put Apple on a list of “companies that are
off-limits,” according to the department.  Starting in 2006  Apple and Google had each other on internal do-not-call
lists starting in 2006, according to the department. The next
year, Apple and Pixar agreed not to call each other’s staffs,
and Google entered into no-cold-calling agreements with Intel
and Intuit, the department said.  Zenia Mucha , a spokeswoman for Disney, based in Burbank,
California, and  Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, didn’t respond to requests seeking
comment.  The settlement, if accepted by a federal court in
Washington, would be in effect for five years, the department
said.  The case is United States v. Adobe Systems, 10cv1629, U.S.
District Court for the District of Columbia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sara Forden  in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 