-- Gulliver Promotion at HSBC Marks Rise of Investment Bankers
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2010-09-24T10:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/gulliver-s-promotion-at-hsbc-signals-ascent-of-investment-bankers-in-u-k-.html
Stuart Gulliver ’s appointment as
chief executive officer of  HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s biggest
lender, leaves investment bankers holding six of the top eight
positions at Britain’s biggest banks.  Gulliver, who has led HSBC’s investment bank since 2006,
will replace  Michael Geoghegan  as CEO at the end of the year, a
person familiar with the matter said. He joins fellow investment
bankers  Robert Diamond , the newly appointed CEO at Barclays Plc,
Barclays Chairman  Marcus Agius , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
CEO  Stephen Hester , RBS Chairman  Philip Hampton  and Lloyds
Chairman  Win Bischoff .  “The sad reality is that if you have grown up in retail
banking you don’t know about derivatives and convertibles,”
said  Simon Maughan , a banking analyst at MF Global in London,
who has a “neutral” recommendation on HSBC. “The risk is that
the investment banker comes with a very different time horizon,
a different profile, and of course a very different remuneration
expectation which distorts the nature of the bank.”  Total investment banking losses were five times higher at
RBS, Lloyds and Barclays than at their consumer units between
2008 and the first six months of 2010, according to  Bruce Packard , a London-based bank analyst at Seymour Pierce.
Investment bankers have been attacked by politicians and the
public for causing the financial crisis.  ‘Spivs and Gamblers’  Business Secretary  Vince Cable  attacked bankers in a speech
to party workers this week, describing them as “spivs and
gamblers.” A British government-commissioned enquiry began
collecting evidence today as it investigates whether to force
lenders to separate their commercial and investment banks.  “The appointment of investment bankers as CEOs of the
large banks makes perfect sense,” said  Tom Kirchmaier , a fellow
at the  London School of Economics . “This is where the profits
and the risks are generated, as the investment banks became the
most important business units of many, if not most, of the very
large banks. To appoint the CEO out of this area is a logical
consequence,” he said.  Revenue at Gulliver’s global corporate, investment banking
and markets division almost doubled to $21.9 billion last year
from $11.5 billion in 2005, making it HSBC’s fastest-growing
division, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Diamond’s
Barclays Capital accounted for two-thirds of the lender’s pretax
profit in the first half of this year.  Europe’s universal banks such as Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG
and Credit Suisse Group AG are led by investment bankers. In the
U.S., JPMorgan Chase & Co. is run by a former consumer banker,
Bank of America Corp. is run by a lawyer by training, while
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. are run by former
traders.  ‘Complex Experience’  “It’s a sign of the times,” said  Jason Kennedy , chief
executive officer of Kennedy Group, a London-based executive
search firm. “With complex products, you need people who have
complex experience.”  Douglas Flint , the finance director of HSBC, will become
chairman, according to the person familiar with the situation.
He will be the only chairman of the U.K.’s four largest banks
who hasn’t been an investment banker.  The rise of investment bankers at U.K. lenders marks a
change from an earlier generation.  Brian Pitman , who as CEO and
chairman transformed Lloyds into Britain’s most profitable
lender during the 1990s, said he wouldn’t touch investment
banking “with a barge pole” because it involved risky
businesses with dangers that outweighed the rewards.  Martin Taylor , CEO of Barclays from 1994 to 1998, sold
Barclays de Zoete Wedd’s money-losing European equities and
corporate finance units.  “The investment banking activities of a universal bank were
at all times parasitic on the retail bank balance sheet,”
Taylor said at a hearing of the U.K. government’s Future of
Banking Commission in March. “I wouldn’t change that view
now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  