-- Florida's Miami-Dade Closes $444 Million Budget Gap by Adjusting Tax Rates
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-09-24T18:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/miami-dade-closes-444-million-budget-gap-by-adjusting-property-tax-rates.html
Miami-Dade County, Florida’s
largest municipal-bond issuer, will plug a $444 million budget
hole by adjusting the property-tax rate to compensate for
falling housing values.  The Board of County Commissioners voted 8-5 today to
approve the $7.4 billion  budget , a 6 percent cut from  last year ,
including about $20 million less in operating expenses. The
county will slash  941  positions from its workforce, the
 commissioners  were told today. A tax rate was passed that will
result in some homeowners’ levies rising as much as 14 percent.  “I don’t want to see our quality of life drop as
dramatically as property values,” Mayor  Carlos Alvarez  told
commissioners. “The cuts that a flat rate would bring are
steep, and in my mind, reckless.”  The county has struggled to balance its budget as property
values have fallen more than 43 percent from their height in
2007, according to the  Federal Housing Finance Agency . During
the past four years, the county has closed about $1 billion in
budget gaps, Alvarez said.  Miami-Dade will collect $178 million more with the new tax
rate, county spokewoman Suzy Trutie said in an e-mail. That
represents about a $50 million decrease from last year. Alvarez
estimated that 60 percent of residents won’t see increases in
their property taxes as their home values fall.  The county plans to sell almost $200 million more in
general-obligation bonds in the next five years, Trutie said.  Operational Budget  The county’s operational budget will be about $4.75 billion
in the fiscal year starting on Oct. 1, compared with last year’s
$4.77 billion budget, and more than the originally proposed
$4.72 billion.  Fees including those on water, some trash-collection and
some car parking, will be increased.  Renegotiated contracts will also save the county $225
million in workforce costs  during  three years, County Manager
George Burgess said in a memo to the commissioners. Miami-Dade
will pay out an estimated $80 million less after employees
agreed to pay more toward health-insurance costs.  On Aug. 2, Moody’s Investors Service lowered the outlook on
the county’s general obligations, which are rated third-highest
at Aa2, to negative from stable, citing Miami-Dade’s weakened
financial position. The county’s unemployment rate stood at  14.4
percent  in August, Florida’s labor department said, 4.8
percentage points higher than the national average. It has $17.9
billion in outstanding debt as of today, more than any other
Florida municipality, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 