-- Clarium's Thiel Says Dollar Is Undervalued as Deflationary Period Looms
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2010-09-24T19:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/thiel-of-clarium-capital-says-universal-bearishness-on-dollar-is-wrong-.html
Peter Thiel , the head of Clarium
Capital Management LLC who was a founding investor in PayPal
Inc. and Facebook Inc., said the U.S. dollar is undervalued.  “People are universally bearish on the dollar and the
U.S., and it seems to me it’s wrong,” he said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan .” “We have another big dollar sell-off today, but on
any fundamental basis, it is way too cheap.”  The euro today touched its strongest level against the
dollar since April. The dollar fell 1.1 percent against the euro
to $1.3469 at 3 p.m. in New York, from $1.3314 yesterday. The
U.S. currency has been losing value against the euro since June
7, when the European currency was at $1.19.  “I would be very worried about moving money to emerging
markets, gold, things like that,” said Thiel, who has been
wagering that the U.S. is entering a deflationary period, which
would lead to falling stock prices and a stronger dollar.  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker
said today that inflation of about 1.5 percent is consistent
with the central bank’s mandate for stable prices, and he
doesn’t see a risk of deflation.  Lacker, speaking to reporters after a speech in Frankfort,
Kentucky, said the record from the 1950s and 1960s shows
inflation can run between 1 percent and 1.5 percent for “quite
some time” without causing deflation, or a persistent decline
in prices.  Founding Clarium  Thiel, 42, founded Clarium Capital in San Francisco in
2002, overseeing about $7 billion at its 2008 peak. It managed
about $1 billion as of June.  After graduating from Stanford Law School in 1992, Thiel
clerked for a federal judge in Atlanta, traded derivatives for a
Credit Suisse Group AG unit and practiced securities law at New
York firm Sullivan & Cromwell LLP before setting up a hedge-fund
firm under his own name in 1996. The firm, Thiel Capital
Management LLC, invested in the predecessor to PayPal, the
Mountain View, California-based online-payment-processing
company that EBay Inc. bought in October 2002 for about $1.5
billion.  Thiel invested $500,000 in Facebook, the social-networking
site created by Harvard University dropout  Mark Zuckerberg , in
2004 and the following year co-founded a venture-capital firm
called the Founders Fund. That firm’s principals include  Ken Howery  and  Luke Nosek , both co-founders at PayPal, as well as
 Sean Parker , who helped start Facebook and Napster, the music-
sharing website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  