-- Ignatiev Says Ruble's Recent Decline Fueled by Rising Imports, Speculation
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-09-24T15:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/ignatiev-says-russian-inflation-rate-may-reach-8-on-drought-crop-damage.html
Russian central bank Chairman
 Sergey Ignatiev  said a shrinking current account surplus and
“speculative factors” caused the ruble’s decline, forcing the
bank to sell foreign currency for the first time this year.  The regulator’s  interventions  in the market have been
“insignificant” in recent months, Ignatiev told lawmakers in
the State Duma, Russia’s lower house of parliament, in Moscow
today. Even so, Bank Rossii sold $600 million of foreign
currency in the month to Sept. 22, he said. The bank bought $500
million in July and $1.3 billion in August, he said.  The regulator last conducted so-called planned sales of
foreign currency in December 2009 and hasn’t posted net sales
for a full month since August 2009, central bank  data  show.  The rapid growth of imports drove the decline of the
current account surplus to a monthly average of $2.8 billion
between June and August from $11 billion in the first quarter,
Ignatiev said. Bank Rossii estimates that imports increased an
annual 30 percent in the first eight months, he said.  The current account may shrink to $3 billion in the fourth
quarter, Alfa Bank economists led by  Natalia Orlova  said in a
research note today, raising their forecasts for import growth
to an annual 28 percent from an earlier 20 percent prediction.  The country may face a deficit in the second half of 2011
as government expenditures fan import growth, according to Alfa.  Ruble Performance  The ruble depreciated against the dollar in three out of
the last four months through August. It’s the third worst
performer against the dollar this month of the 26 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The Russian currency
last week slumped to a seven-month low against the euro and the
lowest level against the dollar in two and a half months.  Russia’s trade surplus in August narrowed to $8.3 billion
from $11.7 billion in the same month last year, the Economy
Ministry said on Sept. 22. The  gap  in July shrank to the
smallest in a year as  imports  surged to $21 billion, the central
bank  said  in a Sept. 10 report.  The ruble may weaken to 31.5 per dollar by the end of this
year, Alfa said, revising an earlier forecast for the currency
to trade at 30 against the greenback. The ruble gained 0.8
percent to 30.7755 per dollar at the close of trading in Moscow.  Even so, a weaker ruble may bolster Russia’s recovery from
last year’s record slump, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach 
told reporters today in Moscow.  “The fact that it’s slightly weaker will have a positive
effect on the economy,” he said.  Gross domestic product fell for a second month in August
when seasonal factors were taken into account, the Economy
Ministry said on Sept. 22. GDP shrank 0.4 percent from the
previous month, as a record drought reduced agricultural output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  