-- Lincoln Dealers May Bail Rather Than Reinvest for 2 Sales a Week
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2010-09-24T20:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/lincoln-dealers-may-bail-rather-than-revamp-showrooms-for-two-sales-a-week.html
Ford Motor Co.’s  Lincoln dealers
may be facing the bleakest days in the brand’s 93-year history.
Soon they will have to decide whether to double down on the
luxury line or walk away.  Sales have plunged almost two thirds from their peak and
now average fewer than two vehicles a week for each dealer, one-
thirteenth the volume of  Toyota Motor Corp.’s  Lexus.  Most of Ford’s 1,187 Lincoln dealers also sell Mercury
vehicles, and will lose more than half their sales when the
automaker discontinues the mid-priced line at the end of the
year. Now the company may ask them to spend as much as
$2 million each to upgrade showrooms and improve customer
service at a meeting in Dearborn, Michigan, on Oct. 4.  Lincoln lags behind other luxury lines as its buyer base
ages and it fights an image driven by the Town Car, the typical
airport shuttle of corporate executives. Lincoln sold an average
of 5.8 cars per showroom a month in 2009, compared with Lexus’s
more than 78, according to company data and research firm Grant
Thornton.  “You can’t make it on that; it’s just impossible,” said
Jack Kain, a Ford and Lincoln dealer in London, Kentucky. “Ford
has got to do something.”  The second-largest U.S. automaker says it is. Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has sold off the Volvo, Aston
Martin, Jaguar and Land Rover brands and is focusing on Lincoln,
now Ford’s only luxury line, to get a bigger slice of the  more-
profitable  premium-car market. The company is attempting to
attract younger buyers to Lincoln with redesigned models like
the MKX sport-utility vehicle and touch-screen technology to
operate phone, stereo and climate controls.  ‘Major Investment’  After peaking at 231,660 vehicles in 1990, Lincoln’s U.S.
sales fell to 82,847 last year. While sales have edged up
4.7 percent this year, those of General Motors Co.’s  Cadillac 
have surged 50 percent. Total U.S. sales of luxury models are up
15 percent, according to J.D. Power & Associates.  “We’re going to make a major investment in Lincoln over
the next four years with seven new or significantly refreshed
products,”  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the Americas, told
auto analysts in Southfield, Michigan, yesterday. “Our approach
is to enhance and expand Lincoln here in the U.S. and then we
can think about maybe looking at global opportunities.”  Ford rose 25 cents, or 2 percent, to $12.56 at 4:15 p.m. in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares
have risen 26 percent this year.  Shedding Dealers  Ford also is slashing dealerships, attempting to cut its
U.S. dealer base in half to about 3,000 to reflect a market
share that has dropped to 17 percent from 25 percent in the late
1990s, said  Jim Farley , the automaker’s marketing chief.  The retrenching means the company will buy out many Lincoln
outlets or pair them with Ford dealers, whose sales have risen
20 percent this year, said Stephen Amabile, a Ford and Lincoln
dealer in Springfield, Pennsylvania. That would buttress
dealers’ finances in the short run.  “I don’t see how a stand-alone dealer can sell six cars a
month and stay in business,” Amabile said. “We’d be
disappointed if we didn’t sell that many in a day.”  The Oct. 4 meeting with Ford may be bad news for some
Lincoln dealers as the automaker lays out its higher
expectations for the brand after the Mercury line disappears
from their showrooms, said Bob Tasca Jr., head of the Lincoln-
Mercury dealer council.  “After that meeting, dealers are going to have to decide if
they can make it without Mercury,” said Tasca, who owns
Lincoln-Mercury and Ford showrooms in Rhode Island and
Massachusetts. “Dealers will have to decide if it’s a good
business case making the extra investment” in Lincoln.  Similar Models  Selling the two surviving brands together may end up
hurting Lincoln as consumers compare the models and find the
Ford a thrifty alternative, said  Paul Melville , a Grant Thornton
auto-retailing analyst in Southfield, Michigan. The Lincoln MKS
and Ford Taurus, built in the same Chicago factory, share a
mechanical foundation and many amenities.  “Ford needs to be careful about getting Lincoln too tied
to Ford dealerships,” Melville said. “Lincoln is starting to
do a better job of distinguishing itself, but it’s going to take
a lot of money and hard effort to get it to be a true luxury
brand.”  7 Models  A new Lincoln small car is among the seven new or improved
models  Ford  has said are coming from Lincoln by 2014. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker has overhauled Lincoln’s
design theme to outfit models with prominent, split-bow grilles.
It also is dedicating engineering and marketing staff to
Lincoln, rather than having the brand share personnel with Ford.  “I don’t see a whole lot of new customers coming to the
Lincoln brand in the next 12 months or so,” said Amabile, the
Pennsylvania dealer. “Until we have an entry-level SUV and the
small car, I don’t see any large increases.”  Ford wants to upgrade the buying experience to emulate
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , Lexus and  Daimler AG’s  Mercedes-
Benz. At the dealer meeting, Ford will ask the Lincoln dealers
to renovate showrooms and improve customer service, said
Christian Bokich, a company spokesman.  “Our goal is to set up our dealers so they can succeed
wildly and also can treat our customers well,” he said.
“Dealers will decide if they’re interested in providing the
next level of experience. It will be a question of the market as
to whether certain dealers will decide to stay with us.”  Costly Upgrades  Amabile said it cost more than $1 million to upgrade his
combined Ford and Lincoln showroom in 2008. He estimates the
renovations Ford is seeking will cost dealers $500,000 to
$2 million.  Lincoln’s 264 stand-alone dealers -- those who don’t also
have a Ford showroom -- will find it hardest to afford
additional investments in renovations and training, said  Jeff Schuster , an auto analyst with J.D. Power & Associates in Troy,
Michigan.  “Dealers will feel like, ‘At the same time you’ve cut my
volume in half, you’re asking me to invest’,” Schuster said.
“I can see some push-back happening.”  At 1,187 dealers, Lincoln has more than five times more
showrooms than Lexus, which has 230, Grant Thornton’s Melville
said. Lexus sold 145,490 cars and trucks this year through
August, almost tripling Lincoln’s 55,776 vehicles sold.  “That’s probably not a sustainable level of sales per
dealer with the loss of Mercury,” Schuster said. “Ford does
have plans to expand and grow the Lincoln brand. But that’s not
something that happens overnight, and dealers have bills to
pay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  