-- India Mobile-Phone Companies’ Revenue May Rise, Indiabulls Says
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-09-24T09:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/india-mobile-operators-revenue-may-increase-next-quarter-indiabulls-says.html
Revenue at India’s mobile-phone
operators such as  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  may rise next quarter as
they increase the cost of prepaid calls after a price war last
year eroded earnings, according to Indiabulls Securities Ltd.  “Operators have recently reduced talk-time value” on
customers’ call-charge cards,  Piyush Choudhary , an analyst at
Indiabulls Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, wrote in a note today.
“The improving price environment makes us more positive.”  The entry of Tokyo-based NTT DoCoMo Inc. and Telenor ASA,
of Fornebu, Norway, in India last year drove operators to slash
call rates to as low as a penny a minute to gain subscribers.
New Delhi-based Bharti, the nation’s largest wireless-phone
operator, posted quarter-on-quarter earnings  declines  for the
last four quarters.  “In a routine ‘on the ground’ market check, we witnessed a
structural shift in the telecom sector much earlier than our
bullish expectations,” Choudhary wrote. “This warrants an
upgrade in earnings, multiple and target prices.”  The analyst maintained his “outperform” rating for Bharti,
“neutral” recommendation for  Idea Cellular Ltd. , controlled by
India’s Aditya Birla Group, and “underperform” rating for
 Reliance Communications Ltd. , the nation’s second-ranked
wireless-phone operator.  Bharti  climbed 3.3 percent to 367.3 rupees, headed for the
highest close since Oct. 5, as of 2:19 p.m. in Mumbai trading.
 Idea Cellular  rose 1.4 percent to 77.55 rupees and  Reliance
Communications  advanced 1.4 percent to 170.25 rupees, compared
with a 0.7 percent gain for India’s benchmark Sensitive index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  