-- U.S. Insurers Scale Back Corporate Bond Additions, Hoard Cash
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-09-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/insurers-scale-back-corporate-bond-sovereign-debt-additions-hoard-cash.html
U.S. insurers  added corporate and
foreign debt at the slowest pace since 2008 in the second
quarter and hoarded cash as yields fell on company-issued bonds
and ratings firms downgraded European nations including Greece.  Insurers’ net purchases of the securities dropped to an
annualized rate of $58.4 billion in the three months ended June
30 from more than $135 billion in the first quarter, according
to Federal Reserve  data  released last week. The industry boosted
cash at a $70.7 billion rate in the second quarter, the fastest
in almost  three years .  “Insurers may have done some profit-taking on the
corporate side, and reduced their exposure to Euro-denominated
debt during the high anxiety” sparked by downgrades, said  Clark Troy , senior analyst at Aite Group in Chapel Hill, North
Carolina. “Building up cash positions may have been
attractive.”  Companies including  MetLife Inc.  and  Prudential Financial
Inc.  were aided by last year’s corporate-debt rally, which
helped replenish capital depleted during 2008. The industry’s
appetite for the securities waned as yields compared with U.S.
debt fell to the lowest in more than two years and downgrades of
 Greece  and Portugal increased concern that worsening sovereign
finances may undermine the global recovery.  The extra yield investors demanded to hold investment-grade
bonds instead of government debt fell to 1.42 percentage points
in April, the lowest since November 2007, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.  ‘The Absolute Top’  “We’re at the absolute top of values and absolute low of
interest rates,”  Christopher Condron , chief executive officer
of  Axa SA ’s U.S. annuities and life insurance division, said in
an Aug. 26 interview on Bloomberg Television. “As the economy
gets healthier, you’re going to see rates come up, and people
who bought these bonds will see the value decline.”  Demand for bonds is pushing yields lower, as taxable bond
mutual funds attracted $229.7 billion of inflows this year,
according to a Sept. 16 report from Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Research. That compares with $22.4 billion into
equity funds, and $30 billion into municipal debt funds.  Lower yields on corporate bonds “may be driving some
companies to keep more funds short and liquid, so that they have
the ability to take advantage of more attractive opportunities
when they are available,” said  Jennifer Marshall , an analyst at
rating firm A.M. Best Co. in Oldwick, New Jersey.  Aflac Inc. , the largest supplemental health insurer, dumped
all of its Greek sovereign debt in the second quarter, taking a
$67 million writedown on holdings valued at $270 million at the
end of March.  Aflac, AIG  “It was prudent to trim our exposures to Eurozone
sovereign debt,” Chief Financial Officer  Kriss Cloninger  said
in a June statement.  American International Group Inc., the insurer bailed out
by the U.S., had $937 million in exposure to the government of
Greece at the end of the second quarter, down from $1.03 billion
held by AIG on May 4.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , led by billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , cut its holdings in non-U.S. government debt by 11
percent to  $10.2 billion  in the six months ended June 30.
Corporate bonds declined by 2.9 percent to $12.7 billion during
the period.  Life insurers held $1.97 trillion in corporate and non-U.S.
government debt in the second quarter, according to the Fed
data, which uses firms’ filings to state insurance regulators.
That compares with $318 billion in mortgages and $359.2 billion
of agency debt. The companies may hold policyholder premiums for
decades before paying claims and need to earn returns on those
funds to remunerate investors and ultimately satisfy clients.  Property-casualty firms held $297.8 billion of corporate
debt and foreign government securities as of June 30.  “I’m having a hard time buying things today at these
yields,” said  Didi Weinblatt , vice president of mutual fund
portfolios at San Antonio-based USAA Investment Management,
which oversees about $45 billion. “It’s good for corporate
credits, it’s not so good if you have to buy stuff.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  