-- Intec Telecom Rises as Much as 36% After CSG Makes $375 Million Offer
-- B y   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2010-09-24T08:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/intec-telecom-rises-as-much-as-36-after-csg-makes-236-7-million-pound-bid.html
Intec Telecom Systems Plc  rose the
most in two months in London trading after  CSG Systems
International Inc.  made an offer valuing the telecommunications
billing software company at 236.7 million pounds ($371 million).  CSG and Intec reached agreement on the offer, which
represents a premium of 25.6 percent to the average closing
price in the three months to July 22, Woking, England-based
Intec said today in a Regulatory News Service statement. Intec
 advanced  as much as 36 percent, climbing above the 72 pence
offer price.  CSG, a U.S. provider of billing services to cable-
television operators, will fund the purchase using existing cash
resources and new debt facilities. The deal will create a
“global leader with significant product scope,” Intec Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Taylor  said in the statement. The
combined group will have more than 3,500 workers, he said.  “Whilst shareholders are likely to welcome an offer, the
price feels very low to us,” analyst David Toms at Numis Corp.
in London said in a research note. Numis sees a “reasonable
chance of an industry counterbidder.” Numis has a
“buy” recommendation on the stock.  Intec  climbed  as much as 20.25 pence to 76.75 pence, the
biggest intraday gain since July 26, and traded at 74.5 pence as
of 9:19 a.m. in London.  “Given the increasingly difficult market conditions and
the importance of scale and relevancy to our customers, this
combination represents a good deal for Intec and provides
certainty for our shareholders,” Taylor said in the statement.  Intec’s directors plan to unanimously recommend that
shareholders vote in favor of the acquisition. Greenhill is
acting as financial adviser to Englewood, Colorado-based CSG,
while RBS Hoare Govett is acting as exclusive financial adviser
to Intec.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louisa Fahy at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  