-- Investment Advisers to Make More Disclosure On Fees, U.K. Watchdog Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-09-24T11:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/investment-advisers-to-make-more-disclosure-on-fees-u-k-watchdog-says.html
Investment advisers in the U.K.
selling payment protection products will have to be more
transparent to customers on how they are compensated, the
Financial Services Authority said today.  It is “in the specific circumstances where the customer is
also paying an adviser charge that we are concerned confusion
could arise about what the adviser charge covers,” The FSA said
today. “We think it is important that the customer understands
the entirety of his adviser’s remuneration in these
circumstances. We therefore intend to introduce increased
transparency requirements for pure protection services
associated with investment advice.”  The FSA’s regulation is part of an overhaul of the way
independent financial advisers and banks’ investment advisory
staff work when they recommend products such as mutual funds,
pensions or insurance. The London-based regulator began planning
the changes in June 2006 and the rules on retail distribution
will take effect from the end of 2012.  “For stand-alone sales, not associated with investment
advice, our view remains that the customer’s main concern is the
premium he will have to pay, rather than his adviser’s
remuneration,” the FSA said today.  In March this year the regulator said investment advisers
in the U.K. must stop taking commissions for recommending
specific products to the public, in order to “restore consumer
confidence” in their advice, the U.K. financial regulator said.  Advisers will have to show sales of pensions, bonds and
equity funds are in their clients’ best interest and result from
comprehensive, unbiased analysis of the market, the  Financial
Services Authority  said today in an e-mailed statement. Personal
investment advisers must also disclose fees separately from the
cost of the products they sell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 