-- Goldman Says Ireland Won't Face Greek-Style Crisis
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 2010-09-24T11:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/ireland-is-very-unlikely-to-experience-greek-style-crisis-goldman-says.html
Ireland is “very unlikely” to
experience a financial crisis as severe as the one that forced
Greece to seek an international bailout earlier this year, said
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “A repeat of the Greek debt turmoil in Ireland is very
unlikely,”  Michael Vaknin , a senior fixed-income strategist at
Goldman in London, said in an e-mailed note. “With Irish
spreads already at all-time highs, we would argue that
refinancing risks in the Irish debt market is aggressively
priced-in already.”  The extra  yield  that investors demand to hold Irish bonds
over German bunds has surged to a record as investors fret about
the country’s ability to cap the cost of its bank bailout and
cut the budget deficit. The spread today widened 12 basis points
to 430 basis points and has swelled 112 basis points in the past
month.  Ireland’s economy contracted 1.2 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three-month period and Goodbody
Stockbrokers said today that the government may need to step up
its austerity drive in December’s budget. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said it’s “too early” to signal a tougher budget for
next year. He has pledged to cut the deficit to 3 percent of
gross domestic product by 2013 from 14 percent last year.  Liquidity Shortages  Goldman said that Irish banks can avert liquidity shortages
by turning to the European Central Bank’s emergency lending
operations. Another positive for Ireland is that the ECB is now
prepared to buy European sovereign debt, unlike at the depths of
the Greek crisis in April and May, Goldman said.  Ireland’s government can also turn to the European Union’s
rescue fund if needed, Goldman said. The investment bank also
noted that the country has a “fairly significant” cash buffer
worth 10 percent of gross domestic product.  Investors have dumped Irish bonds partly on concern that
the cost of nationalizing Anglo Irish Bank Corp. last year will
widen. While the state has already poured 22 billion euros ($29
billion) into the bank, Standard & Poor’s estimates the final
bill may be 35 billion euros, equivalent to 20 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Fraher  in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  