-- IRS Trims Demand for Corporate Tax-Shelter Lists
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-09-24T18:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/irs-scales-back-rule-on-corporate-tax-shelter-disclosure-after-complaints.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service 
scaled back its requirement that companies begin listing all
tax-saving transactions to help the agency identify issues for
possible audits.  The IRS dropped a requirement that companies list their
maximum tax liability and said it will phase in the new rules
over five years, although the largest companies will start
immediately. The IRS earlier this year called on companies to
provide potential audit information, saying it would save the
agency and companies time and money.  IRS Commissioner  Doug Shulman  said in an interview he is
trying to change the relationship between the agency and
taxpayers from one that’s “very adversarial to one that’s more
transparent.”  Even as it seeks more information upfront from companies,
he said, the agency is asking more from its own employees.  Auditors “need to realize that tax positions are uncertain
sometimes because the law is uncertain or our guidance is
uncertain,” Shulman said. “Just because there’s an uncertain
tax position on a return doesn’t mean that’s an appropriate
position that has to get set up for audit.”  Shulman told a tax lawyers’ meeting in Toronto today that
the agency revised its plan after receiving numerous comments
from companies that the proposed requirements were too
intrusive, according to a text of his speech.  ‘Listened Carefully’  Eli Dicker, chief tax counsel of the Tax Executives
Institute, said in an e-mail the changes show that “the IRS
listened carefully to the comments it received from the business
tax community.” The Washington-based group is an association of
tax officials from Fortune 1000 companies.  Shulman said the agency decided to drop the requirement
that companies list their maximum possible tax liability after
companies expressed concern that, in most cases, it would exceed
any realistic tax bill that might result from an audit or
settlement.  Instead of listing a dollar figure, companies will be
required to rank their tax positions based on their size without
giving actual dollar amounts. The agency also relaxed a rule
that would have required companies to report transactions the
agency typically hasn’t challenged, such as those involving
small amounts of tax liability.  Phase In  The IRS said it will phase in the plan by requiring
companies with assets of $100 million or more to file the new
form for the 2010 tax year. More than 24,500 corporations met
that threshold in 2007, according to the most recent  IRS data 
available. About 11,000 companies with assets of between $50
million and $100 million must begin filing the form for 2012,
and 64,000 more with assets of at least $10 million must comply
starting in 2014.  “The biggest companies start immediately,” said  Eric Solomon , director of the national tax department at the
accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP, one of many firms and
companies that criticized the plan after it was announced in
May.  Others included the clothing company  Abercrombie & Fitch
Co.  and the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association.  Shulman said the IRS rejected requests from the largest
companies that the rule be delayed a year. He said most already
collect the information for financial reporting purposes.  “We don’t think it’s a tremendous burden and we thought we
should get the ball rolling,” Shulman said. “The taxpayers had
a whole year of notice.”  ‘Uncertain Tax Positions’  The IRS also issued rules to employees today on how to
process new forms that report what it terms “uncertain tax
positions.” The agency instructed employees to use a “policy
of restraint” in deciding which of those issues to examine.  The IRS plan piggybacks on a four-year-old accounting rule
that requires publicly traded companies to disclose to
shareholders details of “uncertain tax positions,” or money-
saving deductions, credits and transactions that might raise a
red flag for an auditor. The IRS wants more information,
including a rationale for each position.  The form would require information on common matters
including cross-border transactions designed to minimize taxes
and judgment calls over which expenses can be fully deducted in
a single year rather than spread over a number of years.  Solomon, a former top tax policy official at the Treasury
Department, said many companies feared auditors would audit
every issue on the list rather than select only the most
contentious ones.  He said that while companies may be pleased with some of
the changes, “the IRS is generally sticking with the program.
There’s still the obvious question of whether or not the overall
program will achieve the goal of making our tax system work
better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  