-- Israel Says U.S.-Led Settlement Compromise Possible to Sustain Peace Talks
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2010-09-24T16:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/israel-says-compromise-possible-to-save-peace-talks-as-u-s-heads-effort.html
The U.S. is engaged in a last-
minute bid to save Middle East peace talks as the end of a West
Bank settlement-construction freeze threatens to derail them, a
senior Israeli government official said.  Israel backs U.S.-led efforts to find a compromise, and
asked its chief negotiator,  Yitzhak Molcho , to remain in the
U.S. and continue talks, the official, who wasn’t authorized to
speak on the record, said in a phone interview today.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  rejected any
compromise that doesn’t guarantee a “complete halt” to
settlement activity by Israel, Agence France-Presse cited his
adviser,  Nabil Abu Rudeina , as saying today.  Israel believes it’s possible to reach a compromise if both
sides show flexibility and are creative, said the official.  Abbas has said the talks he started with Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  at the beginning of this month can’t
continue if construction of the settlements resumes as planned
on Sept. 26. The Israeli leader repeatedly said he doesn’t plan
on extending the 10-month freeze.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who joined Netanyahu
and Abbas for talks last week in Egypt and Jerusalem, urged the
two leaders to reach a compromise on settlements that would
allow negotiations to continue. Obama’s envoy,  George Mitchell ,
said Israeli and Palestinian officials would meet this week to
try to find a solution and keep the talks going.  Netanyahu has spoken in the past two days with Clinton,
Mitchell and former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair , who serves
as an international special envoy to the Middle East, in an
effort to find a compromise formula, the Israeli official said.  ‘Consensus Blocs”  “There is broad Israeli support for extending the
settlement freeze in the West Bank outside the so-called
‘consensus blocs’ -- such as Maale Adumim, Ariel, Gush Etzion
and other areas around Jerusalem -- that are likely to remain
under Israeli control in a final-status agreement” said  Gerald Steinberg , professor of political science at Bar-Ilan University
outside Tel Aviv. “There are also hints that the Palestinians
might accept this as a basis to continue the talks, if they are
forced to by the Americans.”  The end of the settlement-building moratorium may mean the
start of construction on at least 2,066 housing units that have
the necessary permits, according to a survey by Peace Now, a Tel
Aviv-based group that opposes settlement construction.  President  Barack Obama , in his address yesterday to the
United Nations General Assembly, reiterated his call for Israel
to extend the building moratorium as a way to build trust and
keep the peace process going.  “Now is the time for this opportunity to be seized, so
that it does not slip away,” Obama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  