-- Litwin Foundation Sues SEC for `Negligence' Over Madoff Investment Losses
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-09-24T23:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/litwin-foundation-sues-sec-for-negligence-over-madoff-investment-losses.html
The Litwin Foundation, a victim of
convicted con man  Bernard Madoff , sued the U.S. Securities
Exchange Commission for “negligence” in failing to uncover the
$65 billion Ponzi scheme.  The New Hyde Park, New York-based foundation seeks to
recover at least $19 million and other unspecified damages
against the agency for failing to prevent losses at Madoff’s
investment firm.  The government’s “sovereign immunity” from lawsuits
should be waived under a law that allows cases to be brought
against the U.S. if its workers were negligent, the foundation
said in the complaint. The organization was established in 1989
and contributes to nonprofits that include  Lincoln Center for
the Performing Arts  and the  Brooklyn Botanical Garden .  The SEC “had countless opportunities to stop the Ponzi
scheme Madoff operated over 16 years and botched all of them,”
the foundation said in the complaint.  The plaintiffs said that during a period of 16 years, the
SEC investigated Madoff on multiple occasions and failed to
expose the fraud.  ‘Inexperience, Pettiness’  “The SEC failed to do so because the assigned staff
committed numerous negligent, non-discretionary acts and
inactions due chiefly to their inexperience, incompetence,
bureaucratic pettiness, laziness, inattentiveness, and an agency
culture of deference to powerful industry figures,” the
foundation said in the complaint.  John Heine , a spokesman for the SEC, declined comment on
the lawsuit.  Last year a related lawsuit was filed by  Phyllis Molchatsky , a disabled retiree and single mother who lost $1.7
million, and Steven Schneider, a doctor who lost almost
$753,000.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence for running the
fraud. His family members and his biggest investors have been
sued for as much as $15 billion by the bankruptcy liquidator.  The case is The Litwin Foundation v. United States of
America, 10-CV-7367, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 