-- Liverpool Is Out of Premier League Race, Gerrard Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-09-24T09:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/liverpool-is-out-of-premier-league-race-gerrard-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Liverpool Bid Over  Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard  says his club has no
chance of winning the Premier League this season and should aim
for fourth place, the  Daily Mail  said.  Liverpool is 16th in the league, with 5 points from 5
games, and the midfielder said “a realistic target is to try to
get back in the top four.”  Rooney Exhausted  Wayne Rooney  is finding media attention over his private
life “can be quite exhausting,” Manchester United coach  Alex Ferguson  said, according to the  Daily Telegraph .  Rooney, left out of the team against his former club
Everton earlier this month, has seen his personal life written
about in English newspapers. He may play against Bolton in two
days time, the newspaper said.  Lampard Setback  Chelsea midfielder  Frank Lampard  will miss the next three
matches after a setback in his recovery from a hernia operation,
the  Mail said .  He’ll miss league games with Manchester City and Arsenal as
well as a Champions League meeting with Marseille. Lampard
underwent surgery at the start of the month and had planned to
return two weeks ago against West Ham, the newspaper said.  Harper Sidelined  Newcastle goalkeeper  Steve Harper  may miss 3 months after
an operation on his shoulder, which he hurt during a match with
Everton last weekend,  the Sun said.   Manager  Chris Hughton  will use back up  Tim Krul  and isn’t
interested in bringing back  Shay Given , who isn’t starting at
Manchester City, the newspaper said.  Man. City Injuries  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini ’s training program
has been criticized at a time when injuries may force midfielder
 Gareth Barry  to play in defense, the  Telegraph  said.  Captain  Carlos Tevez  and forward  Craig Bellamy , on loan at
Cardiff City, have complained about the workouts, which include
two sessions a day, the newspaper said.  Former fitness coach Raymond Verheijen said Mancini’s
training regime led to players getting hurt, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 