-- China, Japan Keep Wrangling Over Gas-Field Isles After Fisherman Released
-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-09-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/japan-releases-fishing-boat-captain-at-centre-of-china-spat-nhk-reports.html
China and Japan continue to wrangle
over islets in a gas-rich part of the East China Sea, three days
after the release of a trawler captain who sparked the worst
deterioration in their relations in five years.  Japan rejected China’s demand it apologize and pay
compensation for the seizure of the trawler and its crew, with
both nations claiming sovereignty over the uninhabited islands,
known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese. China and
Japan have yet to implement an agreement signed in 2008 to
jointly develop the natural gas fields.  Japan has “severely infringed” on China’s territorial
sovereignty and the personal rights of Chinese citizens,  Jiang Yu ,  China’s Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said in Beijing on
Sept. 25, according to the state-run Xinhua news agency. China
has the right to seek an apology, she said.  “The Senkaku islands are Japan’s own territory,” Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said, according to a Kyodo news report
yesterday. Kan said his government won’t accept China’s demand
for an apology.  Japanese authorities in Okinawa released the captain after
17 days in detention. The trawler and crew were seized after the
boat collided with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels on Sept. 7
near the islands. Japan released the 14 crew members and allowed
the boat to leave on Sept. 13.  China cut off ministerial talks with Japan and Premier  Wen Jiabao  last week said there would be further retaliation unless
the captain, Zhan Qixiong, was freed.  Captain Vows Return  Zhan, who was greeted at the airport in Fujian by Assistant
Foreign Minister Hu Zhengyue and Fujian’s deputy governor, vowed
to return to the islands, the South China Morning Post reported
today.  The diplomatic row is the most serious since 2005, when
thousands of Chinese protested Japanese textbooks that
downplayed the nation’s wartime atrocities. The captain’s
detention sparked a Sept. 18 protest outside Japan’s embassy in
Beijing that was more tightly controlled by police than those
five years ago, when demonstrators threw rocks at the consulate
in Shanghai.  China surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest economy
last quarter. The Japanese nominal gross domestic product for
the second quarter totaled $1.288 trillion, less than China’s
$1.337 trillion, according to Japanese government statistics.  “It will be negative for Japan, China and the global
economy if ties between the countries with the No. 2 and No. 3
GDPs deteriorate,” Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
said. “It’s desirable for both nations to address this
calmly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Tighe  in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  