-- Japan Yields May Reach 1.3% on New Issuances to Fund Spending, Mizuho Says
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2010-09-24T04:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/japan-yields-may-reach-1-3-on-new-issuances-to-fund-spending-mizuho-says.html
Japan’s bonds may fall, pushing 10-
year yields to the highest since May, on speculation the ruling
party will increase  debt  sales to help pay for economic-stimulus
measures, according to Mizuho Securities Co.  The opposition Liberal Democratic Party and the New Komeito
have separately proposed the nation sell more than 1 trillion
yen ($11.8 billion) of so-called construction bonds for a
supplementary budget this fiscal year. The ruling Democratic
Party of Japan may be pressured to agree with the plan after it
failed to secure an upper-house majority in a July election.  “The opposition will see it as a political victory to have
the DPJ accept the issuance of construction bonds,”  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at Tokyo-based Mizuho, said in an
interview this week. “We have to take into account the risk of
a swelling supplementary budget.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond slid one basis
point to 1.005 percent today. Ueno said the yield may climb to
as high as 1.3 percent if the DPJ agrees with the opposition’s
proposals and increases the supplementary budget. The last time
the yield was at 1.3 percent was May 18.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan has said he is considering
additional stimulus steps including a extra budget after
unveiling a 915 billion yen economic package earlier this month.
On Sept. 21, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshito Sengoku said the
government will seek the cooperation of opposition parties
should it decide to formulate an additional budget.  This month, the LDP and Komeito proposed selling 1.03
trillion yen and 1.5 trillion yen of bonds, respectively.
Construction bonds refer to government bonds to mainly finance
public works, the Komeito said in a  statement  dated Sept. 3.  Budget Plan  The ruling DPJ has 106 seats in the parliament’s upper
house, less than half of the total 242, according to the DPJ’s
website. The LDP and Komeito have  102  seats in total. The ruling
party controls the majority of the lower house.  “Even if the upper house rejects a budget plan, it can
still be legislated as long as the plan passes the lower house
because of the lower house’s supremacy stipulated by the
constitution,” said Mizuho’s Ueno. “But, a slew of laws that
are necessary to execute the budget can’t be legislated” with
the opposition parties controlling the upper house, he said.  The cabinet can propose an extra budget to parliament when
an emergency expenditure is needed after the budget is created,
the law  states . Japan’s fiscal year ends March 31.  Japan’s economy grew at an annualized 0.4 percent in the
three months ended June 30, the slowest pace in three quarters,
a government report showed on Aug. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Ikeda  in Tokyo at   yikeda4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 