-- Japanese Stocks Fall for Third Day, Tracking Swings in Yen; Canon Declines
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-09-24T08:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/japanese-stocks-fall-for-third-day-on-global-economic-concern-canon-drops.html
Japanese  stocks  fell for a third
day after being whipsawed by swings in the yen, which influences
export earnings.  Canon Inc. , the world’s biggest camera maker, dropped 1.7
percent and Fanuc Ltd., a maker of industrial robots that earns
about 80 percent of revenue overseas, fell 1.1 percent. The yen
plunged around 1:15 p.m. on speculation the government was
intervening to weaken the currency, and then pared the advance.
Japan said Sept. 15 it acted in the market for the first time
since 2004.  Shin-Etsu Chemical Co.  and TDK Corp., which use
imported rare earths in products, fell at least 1.5 percent on
concern China is limiting supply of the minerals.  “Nobody disputes that Japan’s growth depends on exports,
and the currency’s appreciation can wreck the country’s
recovery,” said  Hiroshi Morikawa , a strategist in Tokyo at MU
Investments, which manages about $14 billion in assets.
“Intervention moves the currency market strongly, so stock and
bond markets react quickly to the possibility of intervention.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 1 percent to 9,471.67 at
the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo, flipping between a drop of 1.6
percent and a gain of 0.4 percent. The broader Topix index sank
1 percent to 838.41, with about four times as many shares
declining as advancing.  This week, the Nikkei and the Topix both retreated 1.6
percent, their  first weekly declines  in a month. The bourse was
closed yesterday and Sept. 20 for holidays.  Currency Market  The Topix has fallen 16 percent from its high this year on
April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis, China’s steps to curb property
prices and concern about the pace of U.S. economic growth hurt
confidence in a global recovery.  Stocks in the index trade at 15 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.5 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 11.8 times for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index .  Canon, which earns about 80 percent of its revenue overseas,
fell 1.7 percent to 3,795 yen. Fanuc slid 1.1 percent to 10,400
yen, the steepest drop in two weeks. Electronics companies were
the heaviest drag on the Topix among its  33 industry groups .  The yen strengthened to 82.88 against the dollar on Sept.
15, its highest level since 1995, before the government said it
intervened in the foreign-exchange market. It’s headed for the
strongest annual average level since currencies began trading
freely in 1971, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
based on each day’s close.  Yen Plunges  The yen plunged to 85.40 against the dollar around 1:15 p.m.
in Tokyo today from 84.90 at the close of stock trading on Sept.
22. It traded at 84.93 at today’s close. Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  declined to comment on whether the government
acted to depreciate the currency today.  The yen also weakened today after Reuters said Bank of
Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  may resign. The central bank
said Shirakawa had no plans to step down. A lower yen boosts the
value of overseas income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  “Stock prices will rise only if people expect Japan will
take additional monetary-easing steps,” said  Hisakazu Amano , who
helps oversee about $29 billion at Tokyo-based T&D Asset
Management Co. “Investors are still worried about the future of
the U.S. economy and the strengthening yen.”  Shin-Etsu Chemical sank 3.4 percent to 4,225 yen, the
second-biggest  individual drag  on the Nikkei 225, and TDK lost
1.9 percent to 4,900 yen. Hitachi Metals Ltd. decreased 2.4
percent to 958 yen. All three make magnets using the rare-earth
mineral neodymium.  China, Shipping Lines  The New York Times said yesterday that China’s government
put an embargo on sales of rare earths to Japan amid a dispute
over Japan’s detention of a Chinese fishing-boat captain. A
spokesman for China’s ministry of commerce said yesterday there
isn’t such an embargo.  The prosecutor’s office said today in Okinawa it would
release the captain, who has been held for 17 days following
collisions with Japan’s coast guard in disputed waters.  “Investors are also concerned relations with China may
have an adverse impact on the economy,” T&D Asset’s Amano said.  Nippon Yusen K.K. , Japan’s largest shipping line by sales,
dropped 0.9 percent, Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., the operator of
the world’s largest merchant fleet, lost 2.3 percent and
Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. retreated 2.8 percent.  The  Baltic Dry Index  of shipping rates for commodities sank
for a ninth consecutive day yesterday, bringing its slump during
the period to 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 