-- Japan Bonds Have Biggest Two-Week Gain Since 2008 on Central Bank Outlook
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-09-24T22:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/japan-bonds-have-biggest-2-week-gain-since-2008-on-central-bank-s-outlook.html
Japan’s benchmark  bonds  completed
the biggest two-week advance since December 2008 on speculation
the nation’s central bank and the Federal Reserve will increase
liquidity amid signs of slowing global economic growth.  Ten-year bond  yields  fell below 1 percent for the first
time since Sept. 1 as Japanese stocks slid after a report showed
applications for jobless benefits unexpectedly rose in the U.S.,
Japan’s second-biggest export market. The Fed said on Sept. 21
that it’s willing to ease policy to bolster the U.S. economy.
The Bank of Japan won’t rule out any options, including raising
bond purchases, board member  Ryuzo Miyao  said the following day.  “Japan’s situation is no better than the U.S., so if
there’s speculation about further easing in the U.S., it’s not a
surprise that such expectations are arising here as well,” said
 Ayako Sera , who helps oversee about $310 billion as a strategist
at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co. in Tokyo. “Should the Bank of
Japan ease policy, bonds will gain further.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond dropped 7.5 basis
points to 0.995 percent for the week ended Sept. 24 at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The 1 percent debt due September 2020 rose 0.677 yen to 100.045.
Ten-year yields have fallen 15.5 basis points over the past two
weeks, the biggest drop for such a period since Dec. 26, 2008.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery gained 0.76
this week to 142.88 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Japan’s
financial markets were closed on Sept. 20 and 23 for holidays.  Bond Purchases  Japan’s bonds advanced yesterday as the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average slid 1 percent after the U.S. government said initial
jobless claims climbed by 12,000 in the week ended Sept. 18. The
Federal Open Market Committee said after a meeting on Sept. 21
that it is prepared “to provide additional accommodation if
needed to support the economic recovery.”  Demand for  bonds  was tempered yesterday after Japan’s
currency tumbled 1 yen against the dollar, supporting the
outlook for exporters’ earnings. Japan intervened in the
currency market yesterday, Kyodo News said, citing an
unidentified market source, after the nation sold yen on Sept.
15 for the first time since 2004.  “Intervention moves the currency market strongly, so stock
and bond markets react quickly to the possibility of
intervention,” said  Hiroshi Morikawa , a strategist in Tokyo at
MU Investments, which manages about $14 billion in assets.
“Nobody disputes that Japan’s growth depends on exports, and
the currency’s appreciation can wreck the country’s recovery,”  A stronger yen reduces the value of overseas income at
Japanese companies when repatriated.  Debt Sales  Japan’s 10-year yields may climb to as high as 1.3 percent
on speculation the nation’s ruling party will increase debt
sales to help pay for economic-stimulus measures, said  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  The opposition Liberal Democratic Party and the New Komeito
have separately proposed the nation sell more than 1 trillion
yen ($11.8 billion) of so-called construction bonds for a
supplementary budget. The ruling Democratic Party of Japan may
be pressured to agree with the plan after it failed to secure an
upper-house majority in a July election, Mizuho’s Ueno said.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said he will seek to
avoid selling government bonds to fund a supplementary budget
for the current fiscal year, Kyodo News reported yesterday. He
was speaking to reporters in New York, Kyodo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net . 