-- Billionaire Jhunjhunwala Sees Caution on Indian Stocks: Technical Analysis
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-09-24T03:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/jhunjhunwala-investors-turn-cautious-as-stocks-surge-technical-analysis.html
Billionaire  Rakesh Jhunjhunwala  is
among investors turning cautious on Indian stocks as a “put-
call ratio” this week touched the highest in 18 months amid
surging demand for insurance against price declines.  The National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.’s  Open Interest
Volume Put Call Ratio  climbed to 1.93 on Sept. 22, the highest
since March 26, 2009, and retreated to 1.87 yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rally in the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  this month may have been excessive,
Jhunjhunwala said yesterday.  Investors are “buying protection to hedge their positions
aggressively,” said  Yogesh Radke , head of quantitative research
at Edelweiss Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. The put-call ratio
climbs when volumes of puts, or agreements giving the right to
sell a specific quantity of a particular security by a specific
date, outweigh calls, or contracts that give the right to buy.  The  Sensex  has climbed 24 percent from its May 25 low,
helping it breach 20,000 this week for the first time since
January 2008. The benchmark gauge has advanced 11 percent this
month, the most among the world’s 10 largest markets.  The National Stock Exchange’s Volatility Index, or India
VIX that indicates the expected market volatility over the next
30 calendar days, has soared 57 percent from the record low on
Sept. 6. The Sensex’s 14-day  relative strength index  surged as
high as 82.2 on Sept. 22, before retreating to 76.7 at
yesterday’s close. Some investors see levels above 70 as a
signal to sell.  Jhunjhunwala’s Caution  Investors “need to be cautious” as the gain in equities
has been “very rapid in the last 15 to 20 days,” Jhunjhunwala
said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV yesterday. In the longer
term, he said “the Indian economy and the Indian growth story
is on a continuous uphill climb.”  Foreign fund inflows to India’s equities have increased 61
percent this year, making the benchmark index the most expensive
in Asia and among the BRIC markets that also include Brazil,
Russia and China. Stocks on the Sensex are valued at  18.9 times 
earnings, compared with 13 times for Brazil’s  Bovespa Index , 7.7
times for Russia’s  Micex Index  and 15.3 times for China’s
 Shanghai Composite Index .  “Whether the market is going to fall or rise will depend on
the fund inflows,” Radke said. “The current rally has been
driven by foreign investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  