-- JPMorgan Says Cyclical Stocks May Drive Rally Through Year’s End
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-09-24T17:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/jpmorgan-says-cyclical-stocks-may-drive-rally-through-year-s-end.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. listed Ford
Motor Co. and Southwest Airlines Co. as among 24 low-priced
cyclical stocks that may lure investors by year-end.  Improved 2011 earnings estimates and attractive valuations
may help cyclical companies, which are more sensitive to
economic growth, outperform versus so-called defensive stocks,
according to  Thomas Lee , the firm’s chief U.S. equity
strategist. Stocks priced below $22 a share have trailed gains
by the broader equity markets and may begin to rally in the next
three months, he said.  “There is a strong and intuitive relationship between
economic momentum and cyclical outperformance,” Lee wrote in a
research note today. “The improved tone of equity markets in
recent weeks is notable.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has climbed 7.2 percent in
September through yesterday as improved economic data has
bolstered optimism in the economic recovery. The benchmark for
U.S. equities was still 7.6 percent below this year’s high in
April, after falling on concern that American unemployment and
widening budget deficits in Europe would derail global growth.  US Airways Group Inc., CBS Corp. and Macy’s Inc. are among
the companies with the highest market capitalizations listed in
the group. Lee selected the 24 cyclical, high-beta companies
with 2011 earnings forecasts that have been raised by analysts
since April, shares priced less than $22 and market
capitalization greater than $1 billion.  High-beta stocks move the most relative to benchmark
indexes.  The S&P 500’s rally may continue based on the index’s
performance in midterm election years, according to Lee.
Equities have risen from mid-September to year-end in 21 of the
past 28 midterm election years. Lee’s forecast for where the S&P
500 will be at the end of the year is 1,300, the highest of the
11 strategists who gave an estimate in a survey by Bloomberg.  “History strongly favors equities to outperform in the
fourth quarter,” Lee said. “Given the mixed performance of
many asset managers year-to-date, this suggests we should see
performance chasing this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  at   ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 