-- Kagan Presence to Be Felt by Her Absence in First Court Term
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-09-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/kagan-s-presence-on-u-s-top-court-to-be-felt-by-her-absence-in-first-term.html
Elena Kagan  may make her mark in
her first  U.S. Supreme Court  term less by her presence than by
her absence.  Kagan has disqualified herself in 20 of the 38 cases on the
court’s calendar because she took part in the litigation as U.S.
solicitor general. The 20 include some top business cases: a
fight over sanctions on employers for hiring illegal aliens, a
clash between manufacturers and discount stores over the
multibillion-dollar “gray market” in imports and disputes over
consumer suits against automakers and drug companies.  In each case, Kagan’s absence creates the prospect of an
evenly divided court, an outcome that would leave the lower
court ruling intact without setting a nationwide precedent,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 27 issue. The term
starts Oct. 4.  “It’s potentially a big deal” in those cases, said  Roy Englert , a Washington appellate lawyer who will argue in the
import case on behalf of  Costco Wholesale Corp. , the largest
U.S. warehouse club. “You could have a 4-4 affirmance that will
be satisfying to no one.”  That may hurt the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in its bid to
overturn an Arizona law that threatens businesses with
revocation of their corporate charter if they hire illegal
aliens. A federal appeals court upheld the measure, also being
challenged by labor and civil rights groups. They say the law
infringes on Congress’s exclusive authority to regulate
immigration.  Alien Employment Laws  “I’m still hoping that our argument is strong enough that
it won’t split 4-4, but losing Kagan complicates the case,”
said  Carter Phillips , a Washington appellate attorney who
represents the business trade group. Should the court muster a
five-justice majority, the case could affect alien employment
laws in dozens of states and the separate Arizona law that tasks
local police with detaining undocumented immigrants.  In the drug and auto cases, Kagan’s absence may benefit
businesses, depriving consumers of the fifth vote they need to
revive their suits. In each case, a lower court said federal law
insulates manufacturers from product-liability suits that would
impose stricter requirements as a matter of state law.  The drug case involves two parents seeking to sue  Pfizer
Inc. ’s Wyeth unit over a vaccine they blame for their daughter’s
seizure disorder and mental impairment. In the auto case, the
family of an accident victim claims  Mazda Motor Corp.  should
have installed a better seatbelt in a 1993 MPV minivan.  Kagan’s recusals will be all the more important for
consumer advocates because her predecessor, retired Justice  John Paul Stevens , tended to welcome those types of claims, rejecting
arguments that they were preempted by federal law.  ‘Some Trepidation’  “The plaintiff’s tort bar must be entering the term with
some trepidation,”  Maureen Mahoney , a Washington appellate
lawyer who represents Mazda, said at a briefing this week
sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce. “They’ve really lost
their champion.”  Consumer advocates are counting on Kagan ultimately to
adopt an approach similar to Stevens’s. “I’d rather have her
there,” says Public Citizen’s  Allison Zieve , speaking about the
vaccine case. “That’s one where we expect she’ll be missed.”  In the import case, retailers may be better off without
Kagan, even though they need five votes to overturn a ruling
favoring manufacturers.  The dispute turns on efforts by discounters to exploit the
lower overseas prices for some consumer goods by buying products
abroad and importing them for sale in U.S. stores. As solicitor
general, Kagan argued for the Obama administration in favor of a
ruling letting manufacturers use the copyrights on their
products to block the discount chains.  Employment Bias Cases  Kagan also will be absent from three employment
discrimination arguments. In each case, the employer won at the
appeals court level, so the workers will have to win five of the
eight remaining votes on the often closely divided court.  “The employees are going to have to get at least two of
the conservative votes,” Michael Gottesman, a Georgetown
University law school professor, said at a briefing at the
school in Washington.  Kagan will take part in two high-profile free-speech cases,
including one with business implications. In that case, the
court will decide the constitutionality of a California law that
prohibits sales of violent video games to minors. Business
groups including the Chamber of Commerce are asking the court to
strike down the law.  The justices also will consider whether the Constitution
protects anti-gay activists who staged a protest at the funeral
of a Marine killed in Iraq and brought signs declaring that God
hates homosexuals and America.  Wal-Mart Dispute  Kagan probably also will take part should the court accept
a  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  appeal that aims to stop female employees
from suing on behalf of as many as 1.5 million women in what
would be the largest-ever gender-bias suit against a U.S.
private employer. The justices may say by late November whether
they will hear the case.  “I’ll be shocked if the court doesn’t take this case,”
said Englert, who plans to file a brief on behalf of  Intel Corp. 
backing Wal-Mart. “The case really is of huge significance.”  Kagan, 50, probably will take part in more cases next year
during the second half of the nine-month term, said  Tom Goldstein , whose  Scotusblog  website tracks the court. And even
when her recusal causes a 4-4 split, she might be able to
consider the issue -- and resolve the divide -- in a later case.
“In the sort of broad arc, it’s not that big a deal,” Englert
said.  Still, on a court that often cleaves down the center, with
Justice  Anthony Kennedy  casting the deciding vote, Kagan’s empty
chair will be filled with significance in the coming months.  “Not having Kagan shifts the middle of the court from
Kennedy to who knows,” Phillips said. “That can make a huge
difference in some cases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 