-- KB Home's Loss Narrows as Revenue, Prices Increase
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2010-09-24T20:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/kb-home-s-quarterly-loss-narrows-as-revenue-rises-first-time-in-four-years.html
KB Home , the Los Angeles-based
homebuilder that focuses on first-time buyers, reported a
smaller third-quarter loss as revenue increased for the first
time in almost four years.  The loss in the quarter ended Aug. 31 shrank to $1.4
million, or 2 cents a share, from $66 million, or 87 cents, a
year earlier, KB Home said today in a statement. The average
 estimate  of 16 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for a loss of
17 cents a share. Revenue climbed 9 percent to $501 million.  “Strong top-line growth in revenues, an expanded housing
gross margin and lower selling, general and administrative
expenses were the key drivers of our improved financial
results,”  Jeffrey Mezger , president and chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  U.S. new home sales in August were unchanged, matching July
as the second-lowest in data going back to 1963, the Commerce
Department said today. KB Home has been cutting costs amid the
slump and seeking to lure buyers with houses that are smaller
and less expensive than older designs.  KB Home rose 40 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $12.11 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have lost 11 percent since the start of the year, compared with
the 3.7 percent decline by the 12-member  Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index .  The company delivered 2,320 homes in the quarter, a 4
percent increase from a year earlier. The average selling price
climbed 6 percent to $214,200. Orders fell 39 percent after the
April 30 expiration of a federal tax credit for homebuyers.  Quarterly Profit  The company has taken longer to generate consistent
earnings than some of its competitors. It reported a quarterly
profit only once in the past three years, helped by a tax-
related gain.  Lennar Corp. , the third-biggest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, reported better-than-estimated earnings on Sept. 20,
boosted by improved margins and revenue from its distressed-
investing unit. The company has been profitable in three of the
past four quarters. D.R. Horton Inc., the second-largest
builder, reported its third straight quarterly profit last
month. Toll Brothers Inc., the largest luxury-home builder,
reported its first quarterly profit since 2007 on Aug. 25.  “The housing market continues to face significant
headwinds from high unemployment and foreclosures, which are
impeding a broader recovery, and recent net order trends in the
homebuilding industry have injected additional caution into our
near-term outlook,” Mezger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 