-- Kenya Convicts Seven Somali Pirates for Attempted Hijacking of Cargo Ship
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-09-24T13:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/kenya-convicts-seven-somali-pirates-for-attempted-hijacking-of-cargo-ship.html
A Kenyan judge sentenced seven
Somalis to five years in jail yesterday for attempting to hijack
a cargo vessel last year, the European Union’s anti-piracy
mission known as  EU Navfor  said.  The group was detained on May 7, 2009, by the Spanish navy
after officers fired warning shots from a helicopter during an
attack on the Maltese-registered merchant ship Anny Petrakis, EU
Navfor said today in an e-mailed  statement . The Somalis were
handed over to Kenya and were tried in Mombasa, it said.  International navies have been patrolling waters off the
coast of Somalia and the Gulf of Aden since last year to stop
pirates from hijacking vessels along one of the world’s busiest
shipping routes. Suspects are often turned over at the ports of
coastal nations, including Kenya, willing to put them on trial.  Kenya has signed agreements with the European Union, the
U.K., the U.S. and Denmark, pledging to detain and try piracy
suspects arrested by their navies in exchange for support for
its judicial system.  EU Navfor said it has so far handed over 75 suspected
pirates to the Kenyan authorities for prosecution.  Seven Somali men were convicted of piracy and given five-
year jail sentences by a Kenyan court in Mombasa earlier this
month, EU Navfor said.  Pirate attacks around Somalia rose to a record in 2009,
prompting international forces to boost patrols of the region.  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the ouster of former dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.
Most of southern and central Somalia is under the control of
rebel fighters, while the Western-backed government holds only
portions of Mogadishu. Surrounding waters have the most piracy
in the world, according to the International Maritime Bureau.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 