-- Kenya Still Plagued by Corruption; Ethnic Tensions May Rise, Says Githongo
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-09-24T09:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/kenya-still-plagued-by-corruption-ethnic-tensions-may-rise-says-githongo.html
Kenya is still plagued by
corruption and the ethnic tensions that erupted into violence in
the last elections and may resurface in 2012, the nation’s
former anti-graft commissioner,  John Githongo , said.  Kenya will probably experience more “localized” violence
than in the 2007 elections when the Kalenjin and Luo communities
clashed with the Kikuyu people, killing as many as 1,500 people
and displacing 300,000, Githongo said. The fighting stopped
after President  Mwai Kibaki  and his main opponent,  Raila Odinga ,
formed a coalition government. Yet ethnicity will still be a
factor, he said.  “People hate each other’s guts along ethnic lines. People
who we used to go out to have a drink with no longer meet,”
Githongo, 45, said in an interview yesterday in London. “Blood
has been spilled and when people have died that takes time.
Anyone who thinks that has gone away is joking.”  Government corruption and the election violence have taken
a heavy toll on East Africa’s biggest economy, Githongo said.
Kenya’s economic growth rate dropped to 1.7 percent in 2008 from
7.1 percent a year earlier. Revenue from the tourism industry,
Kenya’s third-biggest source of foreign currency after
horticulture and tea, was slashed by more than a third.  This year’s growth may surpass the government’s target of
4.5 percent, up from 2.6 percent in 2009, thanks to higher tea
production and growing tourist arrivals, Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said on Sept. 20.  “Kenya should be way ahead of where it is,” said
Githongo, a former journalist and ex-head of the local chapter
of Transparency International, the Berlin-based anti-graft
watchdog.  Corruption  He resigned as Kibaki’s corruption adviser in 2005 and fled
the country. In January 2006, Githongo issued a 31-page dossier
outlining corruption in the government. The report led to the
resignation of then-Finance Minister  David Mwiraria . Githongo
returned to Kenya in 2008 and now runs a Nairobi-based non-
governmental organization called  Inuka Kenya Trust .  Corruption is still widespread in the government, he said.
Transparency International last year ranked Kenya among the
world’s  33 most corrupt countries  in its perception index.  “Everyone is at the feeding trough,” Githongo said.
“Impunity is still a major problem. Accountability goes down
when you have a coalition because you don’t have an
opposition.”  A new constitution enacted on Aug. 27, replacing one dating
to Kenya’s independence from the U.K. in 1963, aims to spread
political power across the country’s 42 ethnic groups, achieve
more equitable land distribution and put checks and balances on
the president.  ‘Moment Of Hope’  While the new charter gives Kenya “a moment of hope,” it
won’t “change things overnight,” Githongo said.  The new constitutional requirement for a presidential
candidate to gain 51 percent of the vote should help “de-
tribalize” the electoral process, he said.  International Criminal Court  Court Chief Prosecutor  Luis Moreno-Ocampo  will start prosecutions against as many as six
people suspected of instigating the post-election clashes in
2008, he said on Sept. 21.  The court in The Hague in March authorized investigations
into crimes against humanity allegedly committed in Kenya after
the 2007 vote.  “The ICC is going to have to earn its salaries in Kenya,”
Githongo said at a public lecture in London yesterday. “It’s a
group of experienced politicians it’s taking on in Kenya.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 