-- Kenya Tea Development Agency Plans to Build 10 Mini-Hydropower Projects
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2010-09-24T08:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/kenya-tea-development-agency-plans-to-build-10-mini-hydropower-projects.html
Kenya Tea Development Agency , the
nation’s biggest grower of the leaves, plans to construct 10
mini-hydropower plants with a total capacity of 22 megawatts
over the next two years, projects manager, Lucas Maina said.  The projects, which will cost a total of 4.78 billion
shillings ($59 million), will be begin next year and will take
two years to complete, Maina told reporters today in the
capital, Nairobi. Funding will take a 35 percent equity stake in
the facilities and the rest of the cost will be met through
debt, Maina said.  “We have this year and next year to raise that equity,”
Maina said.  KTDA, as the tea grower is known, has formed a new unit
known as KTDA Power Co., or KPC, to implement the power
projects, he said.  KTDA, which has 60 processing plants across the East
African nation that is the world’s biggest grower of black tea,
plans to have a power project for each operation, Maina said.
Each of the plants requires about 0.5 megawatts of power, Maina
said.  KTDA has a hydropower-generation project that produces 1
megawatt in the central Kenyan town of Imenti and is planning a
17.8 megawatt power plant on the Gura River in Nyeri, also in
central Kenya, which will power four of its operations, the
company said in August 2009. KTDA and the  Kenya Power and
Lighting Co. , the country’s only electricity distributor, signed
a power-purchase agreement in June last year, it said.  KTDA is Kenya’s largest producer and exporter of tea,
accounting for 62 percent of the country’s export earnings. It
is the second-biggest exporter of black tea in the world, it
said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  