-- Korea National Wins Control of Dana in $2.9 Billion Hostile Bid
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-09-24T16:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/knoc-has-acceptances-from-64-of-dana-petroleum-shareholders-in-takeover.html
Korea National Oil Corp.  won
control over  Dana Petroleum Plc  in a 1.87 billion-pound ($2.9
billion) hostile takeover, the South Korean company’s biggest
acquisition this year.  Korea National gained control of 64.26 percent of Dana’s
stock with its 1,800 pence-a-share offer, the company known as
KNOC said today in a statement. The offer includes a bid for
141.5 million pounds of Dana’s convertible bonds. Dana’s board
later today recommended shareholders accept the offer.  “Game over,” said  Peter Hitchens , an analyst for Panmure
Gordon UK Ltd. in London. “This gives KNOC effective control
and signifies that Dana Petroleum’s independence is now over.”  The takeover of the Scottish explorer shows Asia’s fourth-
largest energy consumer is turning aggressive to secure supplies
after acquisitions by Chinese peers jumped eightfold in three
years. KNOC made the hostile bid on Aug. 20, offering a  59
percent  premium over the closing price the day before Dana first
announced the approach July 1.  South Korean companies made 19 bids for foreign energy
assets, including Dana, in the past 12 months, compared with 39
Chinese transactions, Bloomberg data show. State-owned KNOC has
said it will spend about $6 billion on  acquisitions  and projects
this year to more than double output by 2012.  Dana’s Delisting  KNOC, based south of Seoul in Gyeonggi, received approval
from shareholders representing 34.76 percent of the stock as of
yesterday after it purchased a 29.5 percent stake in Dana, it
said today. The Korean company, which has extended the offer,
will apply for Dana’s delisting from the London Stock Exchange
if it secures 75 percent of its shares.  The U.K.’s Office of Fair Trading said yesterday it won’t
refer the anticipated acquisition to the Competition Commission.  Dana said Sept. 8 the 1,800 pence-apiece offer would
“utterly fail” to compensate shareholders. Its board rejected
the bid, saying the Aberdeen-based company is worth at least 18
percent more.  “Today we are reluctantly recommending that shareholders
accept KNOC’s offer,” Dana Chairman  Colin Goodall  said in a
statement released in London today. The stock closed little
changed at 1,797 pence.  Additional Acquisitions  The Scottish explorer on Sept. 8 said it agreed to pay
about 240 million pounds to Suncor Energy Inc. for Petro-Canada
UK Ltd.’s production hubs in the U.K. North Sea. KNOC provided
consent for the bid on Sept. 20 and said the acquired assets
“are neutral to the valuation of Dana.”  The Korean company is planning additional acquisitions to
meet a government target of more than doubling its production to
300,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day by 2012,  Kang Young Won ,
KNOC’s chief executive officer, said on Aug. 24. That’s equal to
about 10 percent of South Korea’s daily crude imports.  KNOC bought a 50 percent stake in Petro-Tech Peruana SA of
Peru for $450 million in February last year and acquired
Canada’s  Harvest Energy Trust  for $3.9 billion in October. It
was outbid by China Petrochemical Corp. in the contest for
Geneva-based Addax Petroleum Corp. last year, when China agreed
to pay a 47 percent premium to the prevailing share price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net 
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  