-- Nestle, Apple, AstraZeneca: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-09-24T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/nestle-apple-astrazeneca-google-intellectual-property.html
United Coffee , Europe’s largest
maker of private-label coffee, plans to become the latest
challenger to Nestle SA’s Nespresso when it starts selling a
capsule system for offices and small bars and restaurants in
western Europe.  United Coffee aims to introduce the machines and capsules
in about six months, Chief Executive Officer Per Harkjaer said
yesterday at a press conference in Geneva, where the company is
based.  The company is going ahead even after Nestle’s pursuit of
patent-infringement claims against competitors. “In that
market, we would be competing head on with Nespresso,” Harkjaer
said, making coffee, tea and hot cocoa and selling the capsules
at a price similar to Nespresso’s.  “If there were no legal barriers, we’d do it
immediately,” Harkjaer said, when asked if United Coffee might
make capsules compatible with Nespresso machines.     Europeans
are increasingly using single-serving coffee systems as the
instant coffee market shrinks, Harkjaer said.  In June, French authorities visited plants operated by
Ethical Coffee SA’s subcontractors based in the French towns of
Chambery and Tarbes, and seized coffee capsules following an
infringement complaint by Nestle. Also that month, the company
said it was taking legal action against  Sara Lee Corp.  for
patent infringement.  United Coffee has sales of 300 million euros ($399 million)
to 400 million euros, and may double in size within four to five
years by acquiring small, family owned rivals in Europe, the
Danish executive said. In the U.K., United Coffee supplies
 McDonald’s Corp . with coffee machines and counts retailers
 Carrefour SA  and Lidl among customers.  Founded in 1818, the company is partially owned by London-
based private-equity firm CapVest Ltd.  ‘Apple Peel’ Inventors Defend Device Turning IPod Into IPhone  Pan Lei and Pan Yong, the Chinese brothers who invented a
device to convert  Apple Inc. ’s iPod Touch into an iPhone, say
they are innovators, not copycats. Their invention may touch a
nerve with Apple, which seems to be planning a similar device,
according to a recently published patent application.  The brothers’ Apple Peel 520 is a case including a circuit
board and battery that wraps around the iPod Touch media player,
allowing calls to be made after software is installed. The
device, which requires breaking into Apple’s operating system,
isn’t a counterfeit iPhone, Pan Lei, 25, told Bloomberg
Television.  “We’re capable of coming up with something original,” Pan
Lei, who quit his job as an interior designer to found Shenzhen,
China-based  Yosion Technology Co.  with his 23-year-old software-
engineer brother, said in an interview.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, is seeking a patent
on a comparable technology, according to an application
published in the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office Sept. 16.  Application  20100234051  is for an “accessory transceiver
for mobile devices,”  and can be used either to “ either
provide or enhance wireless communication capabilities provided
by the mobile device and/or to use a different communication
network, channel, or technology whether wired or wireless than
provided by the mobile device.”  Apple applied for the patent in March with assistance from
San Francisco’s  Townsend & Townsend & Crew LLP .  More than 220 million iPod music players have been sold
since it was first released in 2001, according to the company.
Apple first released its iPhone in 2007, climbing to 2.7 percent
of the global market by June this year and sparking copycat
models from Chinese grey market, or Shanzhai, vendors.  “The brothers who invented this Apple Peel probably ran
down a list of how many ways could they annoy Steve Jobs,” said
Jonathan Hudis, chairman of the American Bar Association’s
Trademarks and Unfair Competition Division. “I could not see
Apple standing by to let this continue, especially if it results
in product shipping into the United States.”  U.S. users can save at least $770 by using the brothers’
device, to be priced at $60. Jill Tan, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman for Apple, said any product that’s been tampered
with won’t receive warranty support. Apple is aware of Apple
Peel, she said, declining to comment further.  AstraZeneca Appeals EU Ruling Over Abuse of Patent Position  AstraZeneca Plc  appealed to the European Union’s highest
court over a decision that it flouted antitrust rules to keep
generic competitors off the market.  AstraZeneca is seeking to overturn a lower EU court’s
ruling that said it “abused its dominant position” by
hindering the marketing of generic copies of its Prilosec
heartburn medicine.  The U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker is challenging the
decision “on several grounds,” including whether there was an
abuse of its market power, the London-based company said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  AstraZeneca, its bigger U.K. rival  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  and
 Sanofi-Aventis SA  are among companies the Brussels-based
European Commission has queried as part of an antitrust probe
into tactics to keep copies of their medicines off the market.  The EU’s General Court in July upheld the commission’s 2005
 decision  to fine AstraZeneca for abuse of its dominance,
although the tribunal cut the fine by the region’s antitrust
regulator from 60 million euros ($80 million) to 52.5 million
euros.  “We were disappointed with the General Court’s judgment
overall, although pleased that the General Court annulled the
commission’s decision in respect of Denmark and Norway for the
second abuse,” AstraZeneca said in the statement.  AstraZeneca  was able to keep generic versions of its ulcer
drug off the market between 1993 and 2000, the commission had
said after a six-year investigation that led to the court cases.  The case is C-457/10 P Pending Case, AstraZeneca v
Commission.  Finnish Government Proposes Signing London Treaty on Patents  Finland’s government proposed signing the London Treaty on
patents to reduce costs related to obtaining a patent, the
Helsinki-based government said in an e-mailed statement.  Finland’s parliament must discuss and ratify the proposal
before it is carried out.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Google Says It Wins Spanish Case Over YouTube Copyright Breach  Google Inc. , owner of the most popular search engine, said
it won a case in Spain over claims its YouTube video service was
liable for copyright violations.  A federal court in Madrid rejected claims by  Gestevision
Telecinco SA  that YouTube is liable when people post copyright-
infringing videos on its site, Google said in  a blog post 
yesterday.  Telecinco, a unit of  Mediaset SpA  and Spain’s largest
commercial television station, lost the suit because the court
decided YouTube offers companies whose copyright was breached
the opportunity to have any infringing content removed. The
responsibility doesn’t lie with YouTube, Google said.  “This decision demonstrates the wisdom of European laws,”
said Google on the blog. “More than 24 hours of video are
loaded onto YouTube every minute. If Internet sites had to
screen all videos, photos and text before allowing them on a
website,” sites including Twitter and Facebook “would grind to
a halt.”  Telecinco representatives couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Johanna Seeks Declaration It Doesn’t Infringe Coca-Cola Marks  A New Jersey-based food-packaging company asked a federal
court to declare its fruit-juice packaging doesn’t infringe
 Coca-Cola Co. ’s trademarks.  Johanna Foods, of Flemington, New Jersey, filed suit in
federal court in Trenton, New Jersey, on Sept. 21, requesting a
determination it isn’t infringing the trade dress and design
patents covering the packaging for Coca-Cola’s Simply Orange
brand juices.  The company said in its complaint that it received a letter
from Coca-Cola’s counsel in December, warning that other
companies using carafe-shaped container designs for their juices
had been sued.  The shape to which the Atlanta-based company objected is
“substantially similar” to the shape of a bottle Johanna uses
with its Nature’s Nectar and Tree Ripe lines, according to court
papers. Johanna told the court that the labels are different
from those for the Coca-Cola products, and it disputes the
contention that the design serves as an “indicator of origin”
protected by trademark law.  Johanna told the court it’s been threatened with
infringement litigation and said the container shape is mostly
functional and cannot therefore be inherently distinctive. The
company also argued that consumers aren’t likely to be confused
by its use of the container.  In addition to a declaration that it isn’t infringing
either the trademark or patents associated with the container,
Johanna asked for awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  The New Jersey company is represented by  Michael T. Pidgeon 
and  Jonathan M. Preziosi  of Philadelphia’s  Pepper Hamilton LLP .  The case is Johanna Foods Inc., v. Coca-Cola Co., 3:10-cv-
04844-JAP-0DEA, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  Smart Blocks Asks Court to Force Lego to Approve Release    Lego A/S , Europe’s biggest toymaker, was sued by a
California maker of construction toys who asked a federal court
in San Diego to declare it isn’t infringing the Danish company’s
trademarks.  Smart Blocks Inc ., of San Marcos, California, makes sets of
“talking” building blocks with six internal depressible pins.
The construction toys come in seven colors representing various
themes, according to the complaint filed yesterday.  The company had a shipment worth $200,000 blocked by the
 U.S. Customs and Border Protection  at the Los Angeles/Long Beach
port in California in July. It was told the shipment was
detained because “there is a trademark issue with Lego,”
according to court papers.  Smart Blocks said it spent the next two months trying to no
avail to get the shipment released. As a result, it’s had to
push back its release date and pay “thousands of dollars” for
Customs’ detention and storage of the blocks. Smart Blocks says
it has a “very limited supply” of product on hand to fulfill
orders and further delays in receiving the shipment will lead to
its “bankruptcy or similar financial demise.”  Lego objects that the packaging infringes its trademarks,
Smart Blocks said. Smart Blocks “vehemently denies” that its
packaging, containers or container lids infringe. Earlier this
month Lego lost a court challenge seeking European Union-wide
trademark rights for the shape of its toy bricks.  Smart Blocks asked the court to declare that its packaging
and products don’t infringe the Lego trademarks, and for an
order barring further assertions from Lego that it does
infringe. Smart Blocks also seeks an order requiring Lego to
consent to the importation and release of the Smart Blocks
products, and the cancellation of several Lego trademarks on the
grounds that they are generic or otherwise invalid.  The company also asked for money damages, extra damages to
punish Lego for its conduct, and for awards for attorney fees
and litigation costs.  Smart Blocks is represented by Jon E. Maki of San Diego.  The case is Smart Blocks Inc., v. Lego Juris A/S, 3:10-cv-
01989-WQH-JMa, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
California (San Diego).  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Corporate Secret, Trademark Lawsuits Soared in U.K. Last Year  Lawsuits to shield corporate secrets more than quadrupled
in London last year and trademark cases rose 20 percent as more
companies sought to protect intellectual property during the
economic slowdown.  Disputes over trade secrets at the High Court increased
from 23 two years ago to 95 last year, while intellectual-
property cases overall rose 37 percent, the U.K. Ministry of
Justice said yesterday. Patent cases rose 17 percent.  “Protecting IP becomes more, rather than less, important in
a downturn,” said Karen Seward, a lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP
in London, in an interview yesterday. “Employees are
increasingly leveraging their value in the marketplace by trying
to take valuable information with them when they go to new
jobs.”  Intellectual-property lawsuits doubled during the past five
years to account for 16 percent of all cases, the ministry
report said. Last year, cases included Diageo Plc’s lawsuit
against grocer  J Sainsbury Plc  over the Pimm’s drink label and
Pernod Ricard SA’s case against Absolute Radio to protect the
Absolut vodka trademark.  Eighty percent of a company’s commercial value resides in
intellectual property, requiring additional protection during
economic declines, said Thayne Forbes, a director at consulting
firm Intangible Business in London.  “These latest statistics show that brand owners are more
prepared than ever to take their battle all the way to the
courts to protect the value sitting in their intangible
assets,” Forbes said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 