-- New Yorkers Want Ground Zero Mosque Moved Regardless of Rights, Poll Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-09-24T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/new-yorkers-want-ground-zero-mosque-moved-regardless-of-rights-poll-says.html
Four out of five voters in  New York
state  agree Muslims have the right to build a mosque near the
site of the Sept. 11 terrorist attack in Manhattan, yet 67
percent say they should voluntarily move it elsewhere, according
to a Quinnipiac University  poll .  Attitudes toward the proposed Islamic center two blocks
from Ground Zero split along party lines. Democrats said it
would be appropriate, 50 percent to 34 percent; Republicans
rejected it, 90 percent to 8 percent, and independents opposed
it 63 percent to 30 percent.  The issue, which Mayor  Michael Bloomberg   said Aug. 4  was
“as important a test of the separation of church and state as
any we may see in our lifetime,” has drawn opposition from
national figures including former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin 
and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , both Republicans.  The proposal has become an issue in this year’s campaign
for New York’s governor. Republican  Carl Paladino  denounced it 
and Democrat  Andrew Cuomo , the state’s attorney general, 
rejected calls to investigate the finances of the mosque’s 
developer without evidence or allegations of wrongdoing.  “Most voters think it isn’t ‘appropriate’ to put a mosque
close to Ground Zero,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of the
Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, based in Hamden,
Connecticut. “Republicans overwhelmingly say no; Democrats say
yes. But almost all New Yorkers agree that America’s belief in
freedom of religion gives Muslims the right to build the
mosque.”  Constitutional Freedom  The proportion of voters who said the U.S. Constitution
guarantees the Islamic group’s right to build near the World
Trade Center site rose to 80 percent in the survey released
today, from 54 percent in an Aug. 31 poll.  Regardless of religious freedom, voters in the current
survey preferred that the Islamic sponsors voluntarily relocate,
67 percent to 21 percent. Last month, voters said they wanted
the Muslims to change their plans by 71 percent to 21 percent.  The telephone survey, conducted Sept. 16 to Sept. 20,
included 751 New York state likely voters. The margin of error
was plus or minus 3.6 percentage points, the polling institute
said in a news release.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 