-- Swiss Stocks Advance; Novartis, Richemont Gain as SGS Falls
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-09-24T15:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/novartis-roche-sulzer-shares-may-move-in-zurich-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks advanced after German
business confidence unexpectedly rose and a report showed demand
for U.S. capital equipment rebounded, boosting optimism that
economy will continue to grow.  Novartis AG  gained 1.9 percent after regulators rejected
rival Merck KGaA’s multiple sclerosis pill. Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, the world’s largest jewelry maker, posted the
biggest advance on the Swiss Market Index, rising to a record.
SGS SA, the world’s biggest goods inspector, fell 2.5 percent as
analysts questioned a business plan it presented earlier this
week.  The benchmark  SMI  of the biggest and most actively traded
companies added 0.9 percent to 6,360.77 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Zurich, trimming its weekly decline to 0.4 percent. The SMI 
has declined 2.8 percent this year, as concern intensified 
that some European countries may struggle to control their 
budget deficits, while the economic rebound in the U.S. is 
slowing. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  also rose 0.9 
percent today.  “Europe is divided into two camps: Germany and the Med,
and we think Germany’s positive influence will be bigger than
the negative influences,” said  Herbert Perus , Vienna-based head
of equities at Raiffeisen Capital Management, whose team helps
oversee about $36 billion. “The fear is that the U.S. is
slowing into a double-dip recession but we think that will not
happen. We remain extremely overweight in equities as we think
equity markets are far too cheap at the moment.”  German Confidence  Germany’s Ifo institute said its business climate index,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 106.8 this
month from 106.7 in August. That’s the highest since June 2007.
Economists had expected a drop to 106.4, according to the median
of 36 forecasts in Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. bookings for goods like computers and communications
gear climbed 4.1 percent after a 5.3 percent decline in July
that was smaller than previously estimated, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in Washington. Total orders
dropped 1.3 percent, depressed by volatile demand for aircraft,
and bookings excluding transportation equipment rose more than
forecast.  Novartis  rose 1.9 percent to 56.6 francs. European
regulators rejected Merck’s multiple sclerosis pill cladribine,
marking the second setback this week for the German drugmaker
seeking to compete with Novartis for share of a new market.  Enablex  Separately, Novartis agreed to sell rights on the Enablex
overactive bladder treatment to Warner Chilcott Plc for $400
million, plus potential additional milestone payments of up to
$20 million.  Richemont surged 3.8 percent to 46.25 francs, the stock’s
highest price on record.  Roche Holding AG  declined 1.2 percent to 133.8 francs, a
fourth loss. Drugmakers retreated in Europe after European
regulators yesterday prohibited GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Avandia,
once the world’s best-selling diabetes drug.  SGS fell 2.5 percent to 1,580 francs. The company said
Sept. 20 that it plans to increase revenue 70 percent to 8
billion Swiss francs ($8 billion) by 2014 as it targets
acquisitions to add services and markets.  While “the targets are certainly impressive,” the company
“has a lot of explaining to do as to how it plans to get
there,” analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote in a report
today. “Unanswered questions remain in our view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 