-- Obama Calls Ahmadinejad's United Nations Remarks `Offensive,' `Hateful'
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-09-24T16:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/obama-calls-ahmadinejad-s-united-nations-remarks-offensive-hateful-.html
President  Barack Obama  called
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s remarks at the United
Nations yesterday “offensive” and “hateful.”  In his first comments on the Iranian leader’s statement
that the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks may have been orchestrated
to bolster the U.S. economy and “save the Zionist regime,”
Obama told BBC Persian that “for him to make a statement like
that was inexcusable.”  “It was offensive, it was hateful,” Obama said, according
to an excerpt of the interview released by the White House.  U.S. and European diplomats walked out of the UN General
Assembly hall yesterday when Ahmadinejad delivered his remarks
on the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and the Pentagon near
Washington. Envoys representing Australia, Canada, Costa Rica
and New Zealand also left the speech.  The interview with BBC Persian is part of the president’s
attempt to communicate directly with the Iranian people as the
U.S. and other nations increase pressure on Ahmadinejad’s
government to comply with UN demands that it halt uranium
enrichment.  Last year and this year the president released video
messages to Iranians hoping to strike “a new beginning” of
engagement and coinciding with the festival of Nowruz, when
Iranians mark the beginning of spring.  Reaching Iranians  The president did the interview with BBC Persian because it
reaches millions of Iranians via television, internet and radio,
according to a White House official who briefed reporters on
condition of anonymity.  The U.S., Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia were
united this week in telling Ahmadinejad to comply with UN
Security Council demands or remain under trade and financial
sanctions. The council wants Iran to cease uranium enrichment
and answer the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency’s
questions about whether the effort is designed to achieve a
weapons capability.  In his speech to the General Assembly yesterday, Obama said
while he is willing to negotiate, “the Iranian government must
demonstrate a clear and credible commitment, and confirm to the
world the peaceful intent of its nuclear program.”  Political turmoil in Tehran has eroded Ahmadinejad’s
standing in foreign capitals and cast doubt on his ability to
negotiate an end to the nuclear dispute, said  Cliff Kupchan , an
analyst at New York-based risk consultant Eurasia Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in New York at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 