-- Obama Tells Asean U.S. Has ‘Enormous Stake’ in Asia
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-09-24T19:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/obama-tells-asean-u-s-has-enormous-stake-in-asia-seeks-leadership-role.html
President  Barack Obama  told leaders
of Southeast Asian nations the U.S. has an “enormous stake” in
the region and intends to play a leadership role in Asia.  Exports to Southeast Asia support millions of jobs and the
U.S. will pursue additional trade relationships there, Obama
said at the start of a luncheon he’s leaders of the Association
of South East Asian Nations in New York.  Today’s gathering is the first such meeting in the U.S. and
reflects Asean’s importance as an economic power, he said.  As part of U.S. engagement in the region “we’ve
strengthened old alliances; we’ve deepened new partnerships, as
we are doing with China; and we’ve reengaged with regional
organizations, including Asean,” Obama said.  Asean nations were the fourth-biggest  market  for U.S. goods
last year and the fifth-largest trading partner. Obama is
seeking closer ties to Asean nations to counter China’s growing
clout in the region. China’s share of Southeast Asia’s total
commerce has increased to 11.6 percent from 4 percent in that
time, while the U.S. portion fell to 9.7 percent from 15
percent, Asean statistics show.  The summit continues the “president’s commitment to deepen
America’s engagement with Asia more broadly,” U.S. Deputy
National Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes  told reporters in a
conference call earlier this week.  Beyond Japan and China  The summit with Asean leaders shows the administration
doesn’t consider the U.S. relationship in Asia to focused only
on Japan and China, the world’s two biggest economies after the
U.S., Rhodes said.  The president met yesterday at the UN with Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  and Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan . Those meetings
also were focused largely on economic issues.  Obama has targeted the region for increased trade. Less
than two months before congressional elections, with the economy
a top issue for voters, the president is highlighting his goal
of doubling U.S. exports over five years as a driver of economic
growth.  The president’s export advisory group, headed by  Boeing Co .
Chief Executive Officer  James McNerney  and  Xerox Corp . CEO
 Ursula Burns , released a report Sept. 16 recommending the
government step up trade promotion and complete work on free-
trade agreements.  Asean comprises Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia,
Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and
Vietnam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in New York at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in New York at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  