-- Obama Says Killing of FARC Leader Aids Stability as Santos Cites `New Era'
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-09-24T17:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/obama-says-killing-of-farc-leader-aids-stability-as-santos-cites-new-era-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
killing of a guerrilla leader in Colombia will give people in
the region a better chance for continued stability.  Obama congratulated Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos 
on the operation that led to the Sept. 22 killing of  Mono Jojoy ,
who served as second-in-command of the country’s biggest rebel
group.  “The people of Colombia have been plagued by this
terrorist insurgency for a very long time,” Obama said before
the start of a meeting with Santos in New York. “As a
consequence of the success of Colombian security forces, I think
we now have the chance to see a continued stability in Colombia
and in the region.”  Obama and Santos said the victory in the battle against
FARC provides new opportunities for the U.S. and Colombia to
strengthen cooperation on drug interdiction and economic issues.
Drug violence has spread to Mexico, Central America and the
Caribbean and a regional strategy is needed to confront it,
Santos told a gathering of investors and business leaders in New
York last night.  ‘New Era’  “We’re coming ourselves into a new era now that the
security problem is more or less solved,” Santos said. “We can
now turn to a more progressive agenda” that includes social
development, climate change and the environment.  Santos, the former defense minister who took office Aug.
7, has pledged to continue former President  Alvaro Uribe ’s
policies aimed at ending violence by the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia and other drug-funded groups.  The killing of the rebel commander by Colombian forces “is
going to change our history,” Santos said.  “It’s as if I came here and told New Yorkers that Osama
bin Laden had been struck down,” Santos said last night. “This
is the beginning of the end of 40 years of war in Colombia.”  Colombia’s armed forces killed the rebel leader in an air
and ground assault in central Meta province, a stronghold of the
insurgency since its inception as a peasant militia in 1964.  “We are winning but we haven’t won yet,” Santos, 59, said
in New York this morning at the Council on Foreign Relations.  Kidnapping and homicides related to the South American
nation’s drug trade have fallen 92 percent and 45 percent
respectively since 2002, partly as a result of more than $7
billion in U.S. anti-narcotics and counterinsurgency aid.
Colombia is the world’s largest supplier of cocaine, responsible
for 80 percent of the drug consumed in the U.S.  Violence Spreads  Even as violence falls in Colombia, it’s been pushed
further into drug transit countries, Santos said last night.  “We consider ourselves, as we have mentioned a great many
times, a strategic ally” of the U.S., Santos said. “We want
this to become a reality.”  Santos, a former finance and trade minister, also vowed to
appeal to Obama to adopt a free-trade accord signed by Uribe and
President  George W. Bush . Obama hasn’t sent the accord to
Congress for approval because of objections from human rights
and labor groups.  Colombia is one of the nations with free-trade accords
pending in the U.S., along with South Korea and Panama. The
administration said in March it would work to retool the accords
to achieve the goal Obama has set to double U.S. exports over
the next five years to help American manufacturing and
agriculture. In their public remarks today, the two leaders
didn’t address a free-trade agreement.  ‘Failed State’  Colombia is on a path of change from a “failed state” a
decade ago, enabling the government to adjust its agenda from
focusing on security to other priorities, Santos said last
night.  “The difference between Colombia 10 years ago and Colombia
today is a difference of 180 degrees,” he said.  With U.S. leaders, “we don’t have to discuss drug
trafficking and violence and kidnappings and the traditional
topics that we were used to,” he said. “Now we’re sitting down
as I did with  the European countries with the rest of Latin
America talking about social development, human rights, the
environment and how to grow at higher rate, how to give our
people a better well being.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in New York at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in New York at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  