-- Mobius Calls Petrobras Offering an `Abomination,' May Represent a `Bubble'
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-09-24T20:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/mobius-calls-petrobras-offering-an-abomination-may-represent-a-bubble-.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA ’s $70
billion stock sale was an “abomination” that treated minority
shareholders unfairly and may signal share offerings are
overvalued, said  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $34 billion as
executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd.  “The entire Petrobras issue is an abomination and a
terrible violation of shareholder rights,” Mobius said in a
telephone interview from Kazakhstan. “We may be entering an IPO
bubble. It means that people are just not looking at the values
and irrationally buying these things.”  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, sold 2.4 billion common
shares for  29.65 reais  each and priced 1.87 billion preferred
stock at 26.30 reais a piece in the world’s biggest share sale,
according to a statement late yesterday. The stock fell 1.9
percent to 26.30 reais in Sao Paulo trading.  The oil company is spending about $224 billion over the
next five years to boost production to 5.38 million barrels a
day by tapping deposits trapped under a layer of salt beneath
the ocean floor. As part of the sale, Petrobras issued about
$42.5 billion of stock to Brazil’s government in exchange for
the rights to develop 5 billion barrels of oil reserves.  “The whole idea of the government not putting any cash in
and setting a price on these reserves that’s questionable at
best is unfair,” Mobius said.  Shares Slump  Petrobras slumped 28 percent this year, the second-worst
performing major oil stock after BP Plc, on concern the sale
will cut earnings and boost state interference after the company
discovered the largest oilfield in three decades. The Petrobras
transaction signals President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva is
seeking a greater role for the state in the economy before the
likely election of chosen successor  Dilma Rousseff  next month.  Petrobras said in a statement that the company doesn’t
comment on investor opinions. Chief Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  said in a speech at the BM&FBovespa stock
exchange today that the deal was done with “transparency” for
investors.  “They can claim that Brazilians are well-subscribed and so
on, but in reality in order to make sure this thing takes off
the government is making sure its organizations” invest in the
deal, said Mobius. “The question is: Who were the buyers?”  The company sold 115 billion reais ($67 billion) of shares
and banks have an option to buy another 5 billion reais,
according to a statement sent late yesterday.  Increased Stake  The Brazilian government is increasing its stake to 48
percent from 40 percent, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
today at an event in Sao Paulo. Before the sale, the government
controlled the company through 55.6 percent of voting shares.
Petrobras didn’t disclose the government’s voting stake after
the offering.  Carlos Camacho , who helps manage the equivalent of about
$2.1 billion at GAP Asset Management in Rio de Janeiro, bought
shares in the offering and said that the government increased
its stake simply because they thought it was a good investment.  “Any long-term investors would like it to be a private
company looking for profit as its only objective,” said Camacho
in a telephone interview. “Petrobras, as a state company, has
other motives. In the short-term it may not be so profitable
but, when you look at a five-year horizon, it’s a good
investment.”  Local Buying  Mobius says another policy that will trim earnings
prospects for the company is its so-called local content policy,
in which preferential treatment is given to domestic companies
that provide products for the nation’s oil industry.  “If this money was being spent on internationally
competitive services and products -- fine,” said Mobius. “But
they are constrained to buying local, which means they’re going
to be paying more than they should to get that oil out of the
ground.”  Gabrielli  plans to double output to 5.38 million barrels a
day by 2020, from 2.7 million barrels in 2010.  Will Landers , who oversees about $8 billion in Latin
American stocks at BlackRock Inc., says that whether investors
disagree with the terms of the deal or not, it’s positive for
Brazil’s stock market.  “The fact that Petrobras was able to raise the largest
equity offering ever done in the world, 10 days before a
presidential election shows how far this market has come,”
Landers said in an e-mail. “I continue to be very positive on
the Brazilian stock market, and removing this huge overhang from
the market has to be seen as positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  