-- Olam Shares Surge on Potential Merger With Rival Louis Dreyfus Commodities
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-09-24T09:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/olam-shares-surge-on-potential-merger-with-rival-louis-dreyfus-commodities.html
Olam International Ltd. , the
Singapore-based commodity trader, rose to the highest level in
almost three years after saying it’s in merger talks with Louis
Dreyfus Commodities, the world’s largest rice and cotton trader.  Olam  jumped  6.8 percent to S$3.15 as of the 5:10 p.m. close
of trading in Singapore, its highest since Nov. 12, 2007, after
revealing the talks about “a possible business collaboration,
which may take the form of, among others, a merger,” the
Singapore-based company said today in a statement. A transaction
“may or may not proceed,” it said.  Joining the two companies would give Olam shareholders a
stake in a group with net sales of $34 billion in fiscal 2009.
Agricultural companies worldwide are seeking acquisitions to
benefit from surging demand for food led by China and India.  “Their global footprint will be beneficial for both,”
said  Ben Santoso , an analyst at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in
Singapore. “They can share their logistics and shipping
services and offer their customers better variety of products.”  Louis Dreyfus Commodities, a closely held group about 20
percent owned by its employees, has offices in more than 55
countries, according to its  website . It may be worth $10 billion
to $11 billion, the Financial Times said yesterday, based on
estimates of the ratio of its sales to profit and valuation.  Olam, which said in June it has $1 billion to spend on
acquisitions and investments, had sales of S$10.4 billion ($7.8
billion) last  fiscal year . The agricultural commodities trader,
partly owned by Temasek Holdings Pte, completed six acquisitions
worth more than $700 million in the past year to expand into
production and farming to augment its trading activities.  Food Prices  The United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization’s global
 Food Price Index  surged in August to the highest level since
September 2008 as wheat and rice prices advanced after Russia,
the world’s third-largest wheat grower last year, banned exports
and flooding in Pakistan damaged rice crops, curbing supplies of
Asia’s two main staple grains.  Demand from emerging economies and constraints in
agricultural production are driving food prices higher,
according to a report by Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts led by
 Rob Subbaraman .  Louis Dreyfus Commodities is part of Louis Dreyfus & Cie,
which began operations in 1851 in France. The commodities group
was created in 2006, according to the company’s website.  Rice Dominance  A merger will create a company with the biggest share of
the global rice export market, according to Chookiat Ophaswongse,
honorary president of the Thai Rice Exporters Association.
Thailand is the world’s largest rice shipper.  “It’s actually not a good situation if you have one
company dominating the market,” Chookiat said today in a phone
interview from Bangkok. “It will give them the pricing power.”  Louis Dreyfus is Thailand’s biggest rice buyer, taking
about 700,000 metric tons a year, Chookiat said. “It dominates
the African market,” the biggest importing region, he said.  Olam boosted sales of food staples and packaged foods
including rice 31 percent to 3.2 million tons in the year ended
June 30, the company said last month.  Olam is among the top three suppliers of rice, cotton,
cocoa, and coffee, and aims to gain the same ranking in palm oil
and rubber by 2015, the company said in a presentation in August.  “The combined company could easily rival Cargill Inc.,
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. and Bunge Ltd.,” DBS Group’s Santoso
said.  Acquisitions  Olam’s purchases in the past year include ConAgra Foods
Inc.’s dehydrated and vegetable products operations in the U.S.,
a Nigerian wheat miller and almond and fruit orchards in
Australia. The company last year received a S$437.5 million
equity investment from Temasek, the Singapore state-owned
investment company.  The two companies have cooperated before, with Louis
Dreyfus agreeing in 2007 to sell its 20 percent in Queensland
Cotton to Olam. Olam said at the time it would explore possible
partnerships with Dreyfus in non-cotton products.  Agrium Inc., based in Calgary, offered A$1.2 billion ($1.1
billion) cash for AWB Ltd., in July, trumping an all-stock offer
for Australia’s largest wheat exporter from GrainCorp Ltd., as
the pace of M&A in the sector increases. Canada’s Viterra Inc.
last year bought ABB Grain Ltd., Australia’s largest barley
exporter, for A$1.6 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  