-- Hologic 3D Mammogram's Benefits Outweigh Risks, FDA Advisory Panel Says
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-09-24T20:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/hologic-3d-mammogram-s-benefits-outweigh-risks-fda-advisory-panel-says.html
Hologic Inc. ’s three-dimensional
mammogram device is safe and improves breast-cancer detection
when used in combination with conventional mammography, a U.S.
panel said.  The machine is effective enough at finding tumors to
justify the additional radiation exposure, outside advisers to
the Food and Drug Administration said in a 12-0 vote today in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. One panel member abstained from voting.
While the FDA usually follows its panels’ recommendations, it
isn’t required to do so.  The device, Selenia Dimensions 3D, is designed to find
soft-tissue tumors that overlapping tissue can mask in two-
dimensional images, the Bedford, Massachusetts-based company
told the FDA in  documents  released Sept. 22. The product,
already sold in Europe, Asia, South America and Australia, is
intended for use with two-dimensional screening that detects
calcium deposits, which can be malignant. Selenia was approved
by the FDA in 2008 as a two-dimensional device and can be
upgraded for both types of mammography if the agency clears the
3D technology.  “This, that I’ve seen today, is probably the tool that
I’ve been looking for for the last 37 years,” panelist  Leonard Glassman , a radiologist in Washington who has done breast
imaging since 1973, said before the vote. “It will allow me to
get rid of the overlap, to see around corners, to see behind
things.”  Research Hospitals  FDA clearance of Selenia 3D may boost Hologic’s sales by at
least $80 million in 2012,  Joshua Jennings , an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in New York, said Sept. 22 in a telephone
interview. More than 600 research universities in the U.S. would
be the earliest potential buyers, he said. The company had
 revenue  of $1.64 billion in the fiscal year ended Sept. 26,
2009.  Hologic rose 40 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $16.66 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The
company has gained 15 percent this year.  Panelists weren’t asked to vote on whether the device
should be approved.  The company’s 3D screening, known as tomosynthesis, may
render conventional mammography obsolete in three to five years,
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Cascella  said Sept. 14 at a
health-care conference in New York.  Health-care providers who already use Selenia as a two-
dimensional device can have it upgraded for 3D imaging if the
FDA clears the technology.  While Hologic’s 3D screening uses more radiation than a
traditional digital mammogram, it’s unlikely to create safety
risks for women who have the procedure only once a year, said
 Ira Loss , an analyst at Washington Analysis.  “The bigger issue is whether hospitals will buy it,”
Loss, who has followed the agency for more than three decades,
said Sept. 21 in a telephone interview. “There’s a lot of
concern about reimbursement. It may be difficult to sell into
this particular market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  