-- London Luxury-Home Price Gains Slow in Quarter as Owners Decide to Sell
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-09-24T11:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/london-luxury-home-price-gains-slow-in-quarter-as-owners-decide-to-sell.html
London luxury-home prices rose at
the slowest pace in a year in the third quarter as owners put
more properties on the market and demand weakened in some parts
of the British capital,  Savills Plc  said.  The average value of a home costing more than 1 million
pounds ($1.6 million) increased 9.1 percent from a year earlier
after a 14.4 percent annual gain in the second quarter, a new
index compiled by the  London-based property broker  showed.
Prices increased 0.1 percent from July through September.  A drop in the number of luxury-home sales in London helped
lift prices in the past 18 months. Values remain 7.9 percent
lower than the market’s peak three years ago. Concern about the
 economy  and higher taxes have dented some homebuyer demand,
Savills said, and the broker predicts a “shallow dip” in
prices in the coming six months.  “The froth that was evident in 2009 and early 2010 has
definitely come off the prime London residential market in the
last six months,”  Yolande Barnes , head of residential research
at Savills, said in a statement today.  Overseas Buyers  Savills’s new index is broader than previous studies
covering central London, a market dominated by overseas buyers.
It now encompasses the suburbs in the southwest, riverside
developments in the former docks area to the east, and north
London neighborhoods such as Islington and Hampstead.  Overall, the market for expensive homes is becoming patchy,
according to real-estate advisers.  In segments of the market, prices “are softening and will
come off,” said Hugo Thistlethwayte, managing director of  Prime
Purchase , the Savills division that acts for wealthy buyers. For
the best or rare properties, “this won’t be the case,” he
said.  Values in central London slipped 0.1 percent from the
second quarter, led lower by neighborhoods such as
Knightsbridge, Chelsea and Mayfair. That reduced the annual gain
to 8.2 percent, Savills said. Notting Hill, Kensington and
Holland Park all registered increases in the past three months.  Charles McDowell , who specializes in buying and selling
homes in central London valued at more than 3 million pounds,
said the pound’s weakness compared with three years ago
continues to support demand from overseas buyers.  ‘Happy to Pay’  “Buyers are there and are happy to pay,” he said,
pointing to three purchases of homes worth more than 5 million
pounds that he has advised on in the past four months.  The capital’s highest annual growth was almost 12 percent
in the southwest, which includes Battersea, Wimbledon and
Chiswick. Values there advanced 0.3 percent from the second
quarter.  Southwest London is favored by owner-occupiers, many of
whom are employed in banking and financial services, because of
the relatively high proportion of family homes and good schools,
Savills said.  Next best was east London, including Wapping and Canary
Wharf, with annual gains of 9.2 percent. Values in north London
stagnated from the second quarter to advance 7.7 percent from a
year ago.  “With such low transaction volumes, the market is finely
balanced and it just takes a small change in stock or demand to
tip it one way or another,” Barnes said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 