-- Loonie Rises as Investors Flee Greenback on Concern Fed to Buy More Assets
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-09-24T19:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/loonie-rises-as-investors-flee-greenback-on-concern-fed-to-buy-more-assets.html
Canada’s dollar gained for the
first time in three days as reports showing higher-than-forecast
German business confidence and U.S. durable goods orders spurred
investor appetite for assets linked to growth.  The loonie, as the currency is known, rose as stocks
advanced and oil, the nation’s biggest export, jumped. Durable
goods orders excluding transportation equipment increased in
August in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trading partner, signaling
a slowdown in business investment may be less severe than some
economists projected.  “The Canadian dollar is following risk sentiment, which is
quite positive today,” said  Blake Jespersen , director of
foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal. “Stocks and
commodities are up and the U.S. dollar is down across the
board.”  The Canadian dollar rose 0.8 percent to C$1.0264 per U.S.
dollar at 3:10 p.m. in New York, from C$1.0343 yesterday. It
reached C$1.0192 Sept. 22, the strongest since Aug. 6. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.43 U.S. cents.  The  MSCI World Index  of equities gained 1.6 percent after
earlier falling by 0.4 percent. Crude oil for November delivery
rose as much as 2 percent.  Orders  for goods such as computers and communications gear
in the U.S. climbed 4.1 percent after a 5.3 percent decline in
July that was smaller than previously estimated, figures from
the Commerce Department showed today in Washington.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 106.8
from 106.7 in August. That’s the highest since June 2007.
Economists had expected a drop to 106.4, according to the median
of 36 forecasts in Bloomberg News survey.  ‘General Dollar Weakness’  The loonie is poised to gain for a fourth straight week,
adding 0.7 percent against the greenback. Speculation the
Federal Reserve will reintroduce further easing measures damped
demand for the greenback and bolstered demand for higher-
yielding assets such as the Canadian dollar.  “It’s a reflection of general dollar weakness,” said
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto. “We see good support from
corporate Canada on the downside of dollar-Canadian dollar.
There’s a lot of bargain-hunting from corporations trying to buy
up a cheap U.S. dollar.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said that low U.S.
inflation may necessitate a response from the Fed and that he is
concerned about the level of consumer borrowing in his country.  Speaking in a CNBC Television interview today, Carney said
the “debt overhang” in the U.S. is “pushing inflation to very
low levels, and it may necessitate a Fed response. They’ll take
that decision and we’ll deal with the consequences.”  Carney said Canada’s financial system is “firing on all
cylinders” while low interest rates have encouraged borrowing.  The Bank of Canada raised its interest rate to 1 percent on
Sept. 8, the third increase this year. The loonie climbed to a
record $1.104 in November 2007.  Canada’s budget deficit narrowed in July because of higher
tax revenue and a drop in spending that reflected fewer jobless
benefit payouts and last year’s support of the automobile
industry.  Canada recorded a deficit of C$473 million ($462 million)
in July, down from C$5.82 billion during the same month last
year, according to a statement released today by the finance
department. For the April-July period, the cumulative deficit
narrowed to C$7.7 billion from C$18.3 billion a year ago.  Yields Rise  Government bonds fell for the first time in three days. The
 10-year  bond yield rose 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 2.85 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security
maturing in June 2020 fell 17 cents to C$105.44.  The yield  advantage  of Canada’s 10-year bonds over
equivalent-maturity U.S. Treasuries narrowed 3 basis points to
25 basis points.  The Canadian dollar is likely to strengthen to a record
$1.15 versus the greenback by the end of next year, said
 Patricia Croft , chief economist of Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Global Asset Management.  The currency will gain “due to tighter monetary policy in
Canada, a fundamentally better fiscal position, stronger
commodity prices and a weaker U.S. dollar,” Croft said
yesterday at a dinner in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  