-- Orders for Durable Goods in U.S. Probably Declined in August
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-09-24T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-probably-fell-as-companies-curbed-spending.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably dropped in August for the third time in the past four
months, a sign slowing global growth is prompting companies to
rein in spending, economists said before reports today.  Bookings  for goods meant to last at least three years fell
1 percent, the biggest drop in a year, after rising 0.4 percent
in July, according to the  median forecast  of 73 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show  sales  of new
houses climbed last month from a record low.  Manufacturing, which led the U.S. out of the worst
recession since the 1930s, may cool as disappointing demand
makes companies like  Texas Instruments Inc . less optimistic on
the short-term outlook for sales and profits. The Federal
Reserve this week cited the slowdown in investment in announcing
it was willing to take additional step to boost the economy.  “We are seeing some slowing in orders from what was a
strong pace a few months ago,” said  James O’Sullivan , global
chief economist at MF Global Inc. in New York. “It’s still
reasonably healthy, but not booming.”  The Commerce Department’s report on goods orders is due at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Survey estimates ranged from a drop of
3.2 percent to an increase of 2 percent.  The drop in demand was probably led by a plunge in the
transportation category, which is often volatile.  Boeing Co. , the world’s second-biggest commercial-plane
maker, said it received 10 orders last month compared with 130
in July. Industry data may not correlate precisely with the
government statistics on a month-to-month basis.  Excluding Transportation  The median forecast for bookings excluding transportation
equipment called for a 1 percent gain, the  survey  showed.
Estimates ranged from a decline of 0.5 percent to a 3.5 percent
increase. The projected rise would not make up for July’s 3.7
percent drop, the biggest decline in 18 months.  Texas Instruments, the second-largest U.S. chipmaker, on
Sept. 9 lowered the upper end of its forecast range for third-
quarter profit and sales, indicating that semiconductor demand
may be slipping. Customers are facing lower-than-projected
demand for electronics such as personal computers and
televisions, said  Ron Slaymaker , vice president of investor
relations.  “We’re seeing an inventory adjustment that really is kind
of weaker than we expected in demand by our customers for their
products,” he said on a conference call with analysts.  Curbing Spending  Economists at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch in New York
forecast business investment in new equipment and software will
grow at a 5 percent pace this quarter after jumping 25 percent
in the previous three months, the biggest gain in a quarter
century.  “The pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed
in recent months,” the Fed said Sept. 21 after its latest
policy meeting. “Business spending on equipment and software is
rising, though less rapidly than earlier in the year.”  Other measures of manufacturing have shown a slowdown.
Factories in the  New York region  expanded in September at the
slowest pace this year, while those in the Philadelphia area
contracted for a second month, according to regional Fed
surveys.  Manufacturing  output nationwide grew 0.2 percent in
August following a 0.7 percent July gain, the Fed said last
week.  The housing market that led the economy into the worst
recession in seven decades may be stabilizing near record lows.  New-home sales  in August rose 6.9 percent to a 295,000
annual rate, the third-lowest in data going back to 1963,
economists surveyed forecast a Commerce Department report at 10
a.m. will show. Estimates ranged from 270,000 to 325,000. July’s
276,000 pace was the weakest on record.  Manufacturing shares are outperforming the broader market.
The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Machinery  Index, which
includes companies like Caterpillar Inc. and Moline, Illinois-
based Deere & Co. is up 21 percent so far this year. The broader
S&P  500 Index  is up 0.9 percent and the Supercomposite
Homebuilder gauge is down 6.3 percent.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  