-- Motorola Plans Reverse Stock Split as Part of Spinoff of Mobile-Phone Unit
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-09-24T20:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/motorola-proposes-reverse-split-at-least-1-3-up-to-1-7-shares.html
Motorola Inc. , the communications-
equipment maker that’s breaking in two, plans a reverse stock
split to help increase the shares’ price as part of the
scheduled spinoff of its mobile-phone business.  Investors would get one share for every three to seven they
own, with the exact ratio to be decided later by the board. The
company will hold a special stockholder meeting on Nov. 29 to
seek approval for the move, according to a statement today.  The reverse split would happen immediately after the
spinoff of the handset and set-top box units, scheduled for the
first quarter. The reverse split may help  Motorola ’s remaining
business, including the two-way radio and bar-code scanner
units, to appeal to those investors who avoid stocks that are
trading at less than $5, said  Tero Kuittinen , an analyst at MKM
Partners LP.  “There is a school of thought that says it has a
psychological impact to make a company’s share price more
attractive,” said Kuittinen, who is based in Greenwich,
Connecticut, and has a “neutral”  rating  on the stock. “There
is a stigma attached to a company with a share price under $5
and Motorola isn’t that far from that, so it gives them a margin
of safety.”  Motorola said the reverse split is likely to improve the
marketability and liquidity of the shares of the part that the
company will keep after the spinoff, which will be called
Motorola Solutions. The move would also include a corresponding
decrease in the number of shares that Motorola Solutions is
authorized to issue.  Motorola , based in Schaumburg, Illinois, rose 30 cents, or
3.6 percent, to $8.68 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The stock has gained 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  