-- Lotte Pakistan Plans to Spend $500 Million to Increase Chemical Production
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2010-09-24T04:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/lotte-pakistan-plans-to-spend-500-million-to-increase-chemical-production.html
Lotte Pakistan PTA Ltd. , the
nation’s only producer of pure terephthalic acid, plans to spend
$500 million to increase output as demand rises for the chemical
used in making polyester.  “The investment may be in another plant producing the same
product in Pakistan,”  Asif Saad , chief executive officer of the
company, said in an interview in Karachi yesterday, without
giving details. Lotte Pakistan is yet to decide a timeframe for
the investment, Zain Talpur, a company spokesman, said today.  Demand for pure terephthalic acid may increase as textile
makers use more polyester after the nation’s worst-ever floods
destroyed cotton standing in fields, according to  Syed Abid Ali ,
a research analyst at Arif Habib Securities Ltd. in Karachi. A
jump in cotton prices to a 15-year high this month may also
boost polyester demand.  Pakistan, the world’s third-largest cotton user, may import
as much as 50 percent more of the fiber this year after floods
damaged crops, Muhammad Arshad, a vice president at the Pakistan
Central Cotton committee, said this month. The South Asian
nation is the world’s fourth-largest cotton producer and
textiles account for two-thirds of its overseas shipments.  Flooding since July 22 caused $7 billion of damage across
the nation and 20 million people were displaced, according to
Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani .  Lotte Pakistan’s  shares , which have climbed 7.9 percent
this year, rose 0.6 percent to 8.45 rupees at 9:21 a.m. on the
Karachi Stock Exchange. The company doubled its profit in the
quarter ended June 30 to 1.26 billion rupees ($14.6 million).  The company is 75 percent owned by South Korea’s Lotte
Group which bought a majority stake in Pakistan PTA Ltd. in
September 2009, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 Mtighe4@bloomberg.net  