-- Hong Kong's PCCW Has No Firm Plans for Spin-Off of Pay-TV Businesss
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-09-24T05:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/pccw-s-richard-li-says-no-firm-plans-yet-to-spin-off-pay-television-unit.html
PCCW Ltd.  Chairman  Richard Li  said
his company hasn’t decided on a separate listing of its pay-
television unit, after Sing Tao Daily reported Hong Kong’s
biggest phone carrier is planning the spinoff.  PCCW has reached “no firm decisions” yet about listing
its Now TV unit, Li said in a mobile-phone message today. The
Hong Kong-based carrier is sure to spin off the subsidiary, the
newspaper said, citing an unidentified company official.  Li, son of Hong Kong’s richest man, has stepped up
investments in media businesses as growth in PCCW’s main phone
operations slow. Now TV, vying with  I-Cable Communications Ltd. 
for market leadership in Hong Kong, is targeting higher-spending
subscribers to boost profitability after ending losses last year,
according to media consultant  Vivek Couto .  “Now TV has good penetration in the premium segment,”
said Couto, executive director at Hong Kong-based Media Partners
Asia Ltd. The subsidiary will be able to raise more capital from
a delayed listing if it can improve earnings further, he said.  PCCW  rose 2.2 percent to HK$2.80 at the midday break in
Hong Kong trading, poised for the highest close since Aug. 23.
The city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index gained 0.3 percent.  “From time to time, we do consider different proposals to
maximize shareholders’ value,” Li said.  PCCW’s TV division  earned  HK$43 million ($5.5 million)
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in the first
half, compared with a loss of HK$34 million a year earlier.  Li, the younger son of  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd.  Chairman
 Li Ka-shing , invested in Hong Kong Economic Journal, a financial
newspaper, in 2006, and started  Cai Business Indepth Ltd. , a
provider of financial news and data, last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  