-- Petrobras Raises $70 Billion in World's Largest Share Sale
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-09-24T21:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/petrobras-raises-70-billion-in-world-s-largest-share-sale-to-fund-fields.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil producer, raised as much as $70 billion in
the world’s largest share sale as investors bet on its plans to
double output within a decade by tapping offshore fields.  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, sold 2.4 billion common
shares for  29.65 reais  each and priced 1.87 billion preferred
stock at 26.30 reais apiece. The company sold 115 billion reais
($67 billion) of shares and banks have an option to buy another
5 billion reais, according to a statement sent late yesterday.  Petrobras is spending about $224 billion over the next five
years to boost production to 5.38 million barrels a day by
tapping deposits trapped under a layer of salt beneath the ocean
floor. The share sale was priced at a 2 percent discount to
yesterday’s close, suggesting investors are backing Petrobras’s
plans to overtake industry rivals such as Chevron Corp.  “Many of the other global majors are being challenged
because their reserves are being depleted,” said  Ron Holt ,
chief executive officer of Hansberger Global Investors Inc. in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, which manages $8 billion. “If you
look at the potential capital expenditures that the company has
planned for the next several years, that is a very significant
potential exploration project for them.”  The company is tapping demand for emerging-market assets to
develop deposits including Tupi, the largest discovery in the
Americas in three decades. The field, and the nearby Libra
deposit in the so-called presalt region off the Brazilian coast,
may each contain as many as 8 billion barrels of oil.  Exxon, Apple, PetroChina  After the sale Petrobras jumped to the fourth-biggest
company in the world, behind  Exxon Mobil Corp.,   Apple Inc.  and
 PetroChina Co.,  data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Petrobras has
a market value of $214 billion, more than companies including
Microsoft Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  “Given Petrobras’s superior asset base and growth profile
versus global oils, we believe the stock should trade at a
premium relative to peers,” Bank of America analyst  Frank McGann  said in a note to clients.  Petrobras  has slumped 28 percent this year on concern the
sale will cut  earnings  and boost state interference. After the
share sale, investors will focus on Petrobras’s exploration
program to exploit the discoveries, said  Mirela Rappaport , who
helps manage about $100 million at Investport in Sao Paulo.  Brazil will add the most oil production of any country
outside of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or
OPEC, over the next 25 years and surpass Venezuela and Mexico to
become the second-largest producer in the Americas, behind the
United States, the EIA said in its  International Energy Outlook .  Production Targets  Petrobras has doubled output in the past 10 years and will
surpass Exxon’s current production by 2015 if it meets targets
set in its current business plan.  Petrobras plans to boost production 7.8 percent this year,
while Exxon is targeting an increase of 3 percent to 4 percent
this year. Chevron plans to increase 1 percent a year for the
next five years.  Still, Petrobras has missed production targets in the past
and extracting oil from deep waters “could be slower and more
expensive than anticipated,” McGann said. “Risks are oil
prices, project execution, and politics.”  The company’s  preferred shares  fell 50 centavos, or 1.9
percent, to 26.30 reais at 5:07 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading, while
the common stock dropped 2 percent to 29.65 reais.  As part of the share sale, Petrobras issued about $42.5
billion of stock to Brazil’s government in exchange for the
rights to develop 5 billion barrels of oil reserves. The sale
includes an over-allotment option by underwriters to sell 188
million shares, or about $3 billion, over the next 30 days.  Increased Control  The sale may signal President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  is
paving the way for greater control over the Brazilian economy
before the likely election of his chosen successor  Dilma Rousseff  next month.  “It wasn’t in Frankfurt, it wasn’t in New York, it was in
our Sao Paulo exchange that we carried out the biggest
capitalization in the history of capitalism,” Lula said at an
event in Sao Paulo today.  Production at Shell, based in The Hague, was about 3.15
million barrels a day in 2009, down from 3.25 million a year
earlier, according to its annual report. Exxon’s output was
about 3.93 million barrels in 2009, up from 3.92 million a year
earlier.  Prior to the sale, Petrobras was valued at 8.03 times its
estimated earnings for this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 10.6 times for Beijing-based
PetroChina Co., Asia’s biggest company by market value, and 10.8
times Irving, Texas-based Exxon, the world’s largest company by
market capitalization, the data showed.  Government Stake  A total of 18 equity offerings were completed this year by
Brazilian companies before Petrobras’ sale, raising $12.4
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares have gained
20 percent, on average.  The government increased its stake in the company to 48
percent from 40 percent after the share sale, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said at an event in Sao Paulo today. That includes
minority stakes held by state-owned banks.  Before the sale, the government controlled the company
through 55.6 percent of voting shares. Petrobras didn’t disclose
the government’s voting stake after the offering.  Lula is tightening the state’s grip on the domestic oil
industry after Tupi was discovered in 2007, the largest find in
the Western Hemisphere since Mexico’s Cantarell in 1976. He says
Brazil is relying on the country’s oil wealth to help raise the
nation’s 192 million residents out of poverty.  IPO Shortfalls  Brazilian companies have struggled to raise as much as they
sought in initial public offerings this year amid speculation
higher interest rates and swelling budget deficits in Europe
would slow the global economic recovery. Renova Energia SA, a
Brazilian developer of wind and hydroelectric power, raised 150
million reais, a fifth of what it had initially planned.  OSX Brasil SA, billionaire  Eike Batista ’s shipbuilding
company, raised 2.45 billion reais in March in Brazil’s biggest
IPO this year. That was about 7.5 billion reais less than the
company originally sought.  Investors may be more interested in other Brazilian
companies after the Petrobras share sale,  Will Landers , who
oversees about $8 billion in Latin American stocks at BlackRock
Inc., said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “The fact that Petrobras was able to raise the largest
equity offering ever done in the world, 10 days before a
presidential election shows how far this market has come,”
Landers wrote. “Removing this huge overhang from the market has
to be seen as positive.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  