-- Petrobras Raises $70 Billion in World's Largest Share Sale
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-09-24T02:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/petrobras-preferred-stock-priced-at-26-30-reais-each.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the state-
controlled oil company, raised 120.4 billion reais ($70 billion)
from the Brazilian government and other investors in the world’s
largest share sale as it seeks cash to develop offshore fields.  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, sold 2.4 billion common
shares for  29.65 reais  each and priced 1.87 billion preferred
stock at  26.30 reais  apiece, according to a regulatory filing
from the company today. That represents a discount of about 2
percent below today’s closing price.  The company is selling stock to fund development of
offshore oil fields such as Tupi, the largest discovery in the
Americas in three decades, and to preserve its investment grade
credit rating. As part of the share sale, Petrobras issued about
$42.5 billion of stock to Brazil’s government in exchange for
the rights to develop 5 billion barrels of oil reserves.  “It’s positive that they managed to get such strong demand
and the price was above market expectations,” said Mirela
Rappaport, who helps manage about $100 million at Investport in
Sao Paulo, including Petrobras shares. “In the long run, what
will be important for Petrobras is if oil prices go up and for
how long and at what cost it will take to develop oil reserves.”  Shares Gain  Petrobras’s  preferred shares  rose 82 centavos, or 3.2
percent, to 26.80 reais in Sao Paulo trading today, while the
common stock climbed 1.9 percent to close at 30.25 reais.  Before the offering, Brazil’s government  owned  a 32 percent
 stake  in Petrobras and controlled the company through 55.6
percent of voting shares. The sale will probably lead to an
increase in the government’s stake, the company said in a Sept.
3 prospectus.  Petrobras  slumped 27 percent this year, the second-worst
performing major oil stock after BP Plc, on concern the sale
would cut  earnings  and boost state interference. The sale may
signal President  Luiz Inacio Lula de Silva  is paving the way for
greater control over the Brazilian economy before the likely
election of his chosen successor  Dilma Rousseff  next month.  Lula is tightening the state’s grip on the domestic oil
industry after the Tupi discovery in 2007, the largest find in
the Western Hemisphere since Mexico’s Cantarell in 1976. He says
Brazil is relying on the country’s oil wealth to help raise the
nation’s 192 million people out of poverty.  ‘Less Comfortable’  “I’d be in the camp that is less comfortable with having
the government more involved,”  Madelynn Matlock , who helps
oversee about $13 billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in
Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview before the offering
price was announced. “Not that I think they’d do anything
wrong, but it becomes more of a public-utility structure than an
entrepreneurial company situation.”  The public share offering will help raise funds for a $224
billion investment plan that includes projects to develop
offshore fields including Tupi, which may hold 8 billion barrels
of oil. Chief Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  plans to
double output to 5.38 million barrels a day by 2020, from 2.7
million barrels in 2010.  The Petrobras sale amounted to about 18 percent of the
value of all equity offerings completed in 2010 and is more than
three times the record $22.1 billion raised by Agricultural Bank
of  China  in July, according to Bloomberg data.  About $379 billion has been raised by companies selling
shares this year, the same pace as a year ago, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. A total of 167 equity offerings valued at $29.5
billion have been postponed or withdrawn around the world this
year, the most since at least 1998, the data show.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net 
PETR4 BZ <Equity> CN 