-- Philadelphia Inquirer, MCP, Longyear, Blockbuster, Tronox: Bankruptcy
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2010-09-24T12:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/philadelphia-inquirer-mcp-blockbuster-tronox-bankruptcy.html
Philadelphia Inquirer  lenders won a
bankruptcy court auction for the newspaper and its sister
publication with a high bid of $105 million, outbidding Raymond
Perelman, father of billionaire Ronald Perelman.  Perelman, 93, declined to raise his $85 million offer,
which included $10 million from the Philadelphia Carpenters
Union pension fund, he said in an interview after the auction.
The Philadelphia-area resident said he decided to bid for the
paper for the second time this year to make sure it survives the
bankruptcy of parent company Philadelphia Newspapers LLC.  The auction began nine days after the newspapers’ main
lenders backed out of a contract to buy them in a deal valued at
about $139 million. The lenders, including hedge fund operator
Angelo Gordon & Co. and a unit of  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
returned with an offer similar to the earlier one.  Fred Hodara, an attorney for the lenders, said the group
would have to complete the sale this time, even if it runs into
the same problem with the Teamsters union that scuttled the last
deal. The judge engineered a process designed to guarantee the
sale will close, including requiring the lenders to post a non-
refundable deposit of more than $15 million, Hodara said in an
interview.  The lenders refused to complete the previous deal after
Teamsters members rejected changes to their pension plan.  The lenders and 14 of the 15 unions at the newspapers have
agreed to new employment contracts, Hodara said. The only
holdout is the Teamsters, which has rejected a proposal to
convert its pension to a 401(k) retirement plan, he said.  John P. Laigaie, head of Teamsters Local 628, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Under the current offer, the lenders will pay $105 million
in cash for the newspapers. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stephen
Raslavich in Philadelphia said in court he will approve the
auction results after minor wording changes are made to the sale
contract.  Philadelphia Newspapers filed for bankruptcy in February
2009, blaming the recession and a drop in advertising.  The case is In re Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, 09-11204,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  New Filings  MCP Ontario Festival Files for Bankruptcy in California  MCP Ontario Festival LLC, a real estate company, filed for
bankruptcy protection in Santa Ana, California.  The Newport Beach, California-based company declared assets
of as much as $10 million and liabilities of as much as $50
million in its Chapter 11 petition.  MCP Ontario described real property assets valued at $8.1
million, secured claims of $25.4 million, and unsecured
nonpriority claims of $5.6 million, court papers showed. The
properties are in Ontario and Yucaipa, California, according to
court files.  First Regional Bank has $8.9 million in claims, with $8
million secured.  The case is In re MCP Ontario Festival LLC, 10-23351, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  Longyear Properties Files Chapter 11 in Boston  Longyear Properties LLC filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection in Boston.  The Norwood, Massachusetts-based company estimated assets
and liabilities in the range of $10 million to $50 million each.
Longyear has fewer than 100 creditors, court files show.  The 20 largest unsecured creditors included trade debt owed
to Columbia Construction Co. of $535,076,  Robinson & Cole LLP  of
$129,715 and WB Cameron of $88,583. The remaining creditors are
owed less than $60,000 apiece, according to court papers.  The case is In re Longyear Properties LLC, 10- 20326, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston)  Blockbuster  Blockbuster Wins Interim Loan Approval, Other First Day Relief  Blockbuster Inc. , the movie-rental company that filed for
bankruptcy yesterday, won court permission to draw $20 million
of a $125 million loan that will let it operate while it
reorganizes to emphasize online rentals.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland approved the loan
yesterday at a hearing in Manhattan. Dallas-based Blockbuster
said it will only spend $10 million before Sept. 27. The company
said in its Chapter 11 petition that it agreed with a group of
bondholders on a plan of reorganization and secured the loan to
finance operations in the meantime.  In view of the bondholder support, the company expects to
be able to restructure and “ensure its long-term viability,”
Stephen Karotkin, a lawyer for Blockbuster, said.  The company sought bankruptcy protection after failing to
adapt its storefront model to Web technology pioneered by rivals
such as  Netflix Inc.  Sales at Blockbuster, with about 3,000
stores in the U.S., shrank 20 percent last year while  Netflix 
grew and  Coinstar Inc.  put Redbox DVD vending machines in
supermarkets and drugstores.  Blockbuster hasn’t made any decisions about store closings,
which will be “a consideration” during the bankruptcy case,
Chief Executive Officer James Keyes said in an interview after
yesterday’s hearing.  The judge approved only a portion of the loan to give
creditors time to review terms. Blockbuster initially sought
approval to borrow $45 million of the bankruptcy loan. It will
return to court Sept. 27 for permission to draw another $25
million before seeking approval of the entire loan.  Under the proposed reorganization plan, there will be no
recovery by the holders of the company’s outstanding
subordinated debt, preferred stock or common stock, Blockbuster
said in a statement. Senior bondholders will swap their debt for
equity in the reorganized company.  Billionaire Carl Icahn’s Icahn Capital LP, a senior
creditor, would have the authority to choose two  directors 
outright and would need agreement from Monarch Alternative
Capital LP and other noteholders to pick a third, according to a
term sheet for the loan.  The company listed  assets  of $1.02 billion against debt of
$1.46 billion in its Chapter 11 petition.  Lifland yesterday also gave the company permission to
continue paying employees, honoring customer reward programs and
maintaining its cash-management system.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Updates  Tronox Wins Approval of Bankruptcy Plan Description  Tronox Inc. , a bankrupt chemical maker, won court approval
of its disclosure statement explaining the terms of its plan to
exit bankruptcy protection.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in New York approved
the statement yesterday at a hearing. The approval of the
disclosure statement is an important step toward Tronox getting
approval of its reorganization plan.  The judge on Sept. 17 approved Tronox’s agreement to pay
bondholders to back an offer of new stock in a reorganized
company, after an adviser to the company said delays might
jeopardize Tronox’s environmental settlements.  Under the agreement, Tronox would pay bondholders an 8
percent fee to back a $185 million rights offering of common
stock in the new company.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Abuse Victim Lawyers Object to Delaware Diocese Plan  Lawyers for people allegedly sexually abused by priests in
the  Catholic Diocese of Wilmington , Delaware, rejected an offer
that would pay victims as much as $75,000 each as part of a plan
to end the local church’s bankruptcy.  Under the proposal filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Wilmington, sex-abuse victims who sued the diocese in state
court in Delaware would have their cases closed and moved either
to federal court or put before a special mediator named by the
diocese.  Should the mediator find the claim is legitimate, the
victim would be allowed to collect as much as $75,000 from a
trust fund the diocese proposed to set up. The diocese didn’t
say how much money it would put into the trust or whether the
fund would have enough money in it to cover all claims.  Attorney Thomas Neuberger, who represents 98 of the 151
sex-abuse victims with claims against the diocese in bankruptcy
court, described the plan as “a mean-spirited, vindictive,
hypocritical act.”  The diocese filed bankruptcy last year with plans to settle
lawsuits by current and former parishioners who say they were
sexually molested by priests. Since then, lawyers for the
diocese and those for more than 140 abuse victims have fought in
court over everything from the cash pool to which sex-abuse
lawsuits should be allowed to go to trial.  Bishop W. Francis Malooly said in a statement yesterday that
the plan, while not supported by all creditors, came after
months of negotiations with the official creditor committees and
“other constituencies.”  The case is In re Catholic Diocese of Wilmington Inc., 09-
13560, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware,
(Wilmington).  Hawaiian Telcom Says Regulator Approves Reorganization Plan  Hawaiian Telcom Communications Inc.  won approval of its
reorganization plan from the  Hawaii Public Utilities Commission ,
allowing the company to exit bankruptcy.  Hawaiian Telcom plans to leave Chapter 11 protection within
30 days, according to a statement. The company, with 1,400
workers, filed for bankruptcy on Dec. 1, listing assets of $1.35
billion. It blamed the filing partly on transition difficulties
after Carlyle Group, a Washington-based private-equity firm,
bought the company from Verizon Communications Inc. in 2005 for
$1.6 billion.  The case is Hawaiian Telcom Communications Inc., 08-02005,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Hawaii (Honolulu).  Briefly Noted  Majestic Star’s Unsecured Creditors Ask to End Exclusivity  Majestic Star Casino LLC’s unsecured creditors’ committee
asked the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware, to end
the company’s exclusive right to file a reorganization plan. The
committee objected to Majestic’s fourth request for an
exclusivity extension in court papers filed Sept. 21, saying the
company’s decision to propose a plan “is in bad faith” and
involves three settlements that dispose of “valuable assets.”
The committee asked the court for permission to solicit support
for its own reorganization plan. A hearing is scheduled for
Sept. 28.  The case is In re Majestic Star Casino LLC, 09-14136, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  GSC Group Wins Bankruptcy Court Permission to Auction Assets  GSC Group Inc. , an investment firm founded by a former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  partner, won bankruptcy court approval
for an auction of its assets. Judge Arthur Gonzalez in Manhattan
approved the auction and bidding rules yesterday at a hearing.
Bids are due Oct. 22, and the auction is scheduled for Oct. 26
and 27. Gonzalez’s ruling came amid accusations by GSC creditors
and others that Black Diamond Capital Management LLC, GSC’s
biggest lender, is exerting too much control over the company
and its sale, which Black Diamond denied. Black Diamond said
it’s interested in bidding for the assets. GSC, founded by
former Goldman partner Alfred Eckert III, filed for bankruptcy
on Aug. 31.  The case is In re GSC Group Inc., 10-14653, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan)  Lehman Wins Approval of $887 Million Aurora Bank Deal  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , the bankrupt investment
bank, won court approval of a settlement agreement to transfer
$887 million in cash and assets to its Delaware-based Aurora
Bank FSB, according to court documents. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
James Peck in New York approved the agreement, which also calls
for Lehman to ensure that Aurora maintains certain capital
levels and to buy all the bank’s non-cash assets in certain
circumstances after an 18-month period, according to the filing
yesterday. Lehman said in a September filing that agreements
with Aurora Bank and Woodlands Commercial Bank in Salk Lake City
were crucial to preserving the value of its ownership stakes in
the banks, which Lehman has agreed to sell or close.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Ratings Actions  Aquilex Holdings Ratings on Negative Credit Watch, S&P Says,  Aquilex Holdings LLC’s corporate credit rating of B was
placed on credit watch with negative implications, along with
the company’s other ratings, Standard & Poor’s said in a
statement.  S&P cited Aquilex’s “weaker-than-expected operating
performance and resulting erosion of financial covenant headroom
during the first half of 2010.” The Atlanta-based provider of
welding, repair and industrial-cleaning services had total debt
of $399 million on June 30, according to S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in New Jersey at 
 Cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 