-- Polish Rate-Rise Bets Climb to 6-Month High on Retail Sales, Bank Minutes
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-09-24T09:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/polish-rate-rise-bets-climb-to-6-month-high-on-retail-sales-bank-minutes.html
Investors are lifting expectations
for an increase in Polish interest rates by the most in almost
six months after retail sales grew faster than expected and
policy makers said they considered raising borrowing costs.  Forward-rate agreements used to speculate on rate moves two
months from now have climbed 11 basis points to 4.1130 percent
in the past two days. A close at that level would be the highest 
since March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
38 basis points above today’s three-month Warsaw interbank
offered  rate  of 3.73 percent, indicating a jump in the main rate
by at least a quarter of a percentage point.  Poland’s  retail sales  in August grew 6.6 percent, the
fastest annual pace in five month, driven by demand for
furniture and consumer electronics, the statistics office said
today. That compares with 5.3 percent predicted by economists
taking part in a Bloomberg survey.  Industrial output  grew more
than 10 percent for a fourth month in August, exceeding
economists’ estimates, according to a report last week.  “It is going to be increasingly difficult for the neutral
segment of the Monetary Policy Council to say there are not
demand-side pressures emerging in the economy through year-
end,”  Peter Attard Montalto , an economist at Nomura
International in London, wrote in a note to clients. “At the
very least it calls for a normalization in rates. If we can
follow this up with a strong next manufacturing print, then we
are set for hikes.”  Motions to increase the main interest rate and mandatory-
reserve rate by half a percentage point were raised last month,
according to minutes of the Aug. 24 policy meeting published
yesterday. Narodowy Bank Polski, the central bank, kept its
 seven-day reference rate  at an all-time low of 3.5 percent in
August for the 14th straight month, saying inflation would
remain under control even as economic growth was likely to
accelerate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  