-- Poor Kid on Block Gets Fleeced by Elderly: Laurence Kotlikoff
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 2010-09-24T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/poor-kid-on-block-fleeced-by-the-elderly-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
One of the supposedly good things
produced by the Great Recession is a change in the spending
behavior of the American public. The personal savings rate is
now running at 6 percent -- three times higher than in 2007. Do
a Google  search  on the term “personal saving” and you’ll find
articles applauding Americans’ newfound abstinence.  When I read these stories, I cringe. The personal savings
rate, like the federal deficit, is a made-up, accounting
measure, with no economic content. Its value and changes through
time are entirely dependent on how we classify things. For
example, counting Social Security contributions dramatically
raises the personal savings rate, but lowers its recent growth.  Calling Social Security contributions part of personal
savings seems as natural as not. After all, the system provides
most Americans with much of their old-age income. And it sends
us an annual statement detailing what we’ve contributed and can
expect to receive in retirement. That’s pretty darn personal.  But why stop with Social Security? Medicare contributions
can also be called personal savings: We’re buying an asset -- an
old-age health-insurance policy -- with those contributions.  Labeling contributions to Social Security as personal
savings makes last year’s rate 9.8 percent, not 4.6 percent.
Treating Medicare and Social Security contributions as personal
savings raises the rate to 12.7 percent.  Pick a Rate  So, which rate was it? Take your pick. Or classify some
other tax payments as personal savings and make the rate even
bigger.  If you prefer to claim personal savings were negative,
simply reclassify a chunk of the funds the public receives in
transfer payments from  Uncle Sam  as borrowing from the
government. (To be consistent, also designate part of the
public’s future tax payments as repayment of this borrowing.)
Voila, rather than taking in income, the public is taking on
debt. And since it’s consuming the same, its personal savings
are lower.    John Mitchell  put his finger on economics’ labeling
problem. He was  Richard Nixon ’s attorney general and a real
expert on deception. Before being jailed for perjury, Mitchell
used to say, “Figures lie and liars figure.”  The personal savings rate is one of those figures, thanks
to the  U.S. Commerce Department .  Physical Concepts  The right saving rate to consider is calculated by dividing
total national savings by total national income. National saving
is a label-free measure because it references physical concepts.
It’s the value of a country’s net output minus its consumption.  The national savings rate provides an entirely different
picture of America’s behavior with money. As the chart shows,
national saving has, for the first time since the Great
Depression, gone negative.  You read that right. Instead of adding to our seed corn,
we’re eating our existing stock!  In the mid-1960s, our country was saving more than 14
percent of national income. Today, we’re dis-saving 2 percent.
This is a truly remarkable achievement. The U.S. is possibly the
only developed country that is saving less than nothing.  Countries that don’t save end up as the poor kids on the
block. They also have no wherewithal to invest. And less
investment means less plant and equipment for workers to use on
the job, which spells lower  labor productivity , which means
lower wages.  Going Negative  Negative national saving is possibly the scariest indicator
of America’s economic demise. But enter “national savings
rate” in Google, and you’ll find just a handful of articles on
this topic. The government reports the values of national income
and consumption, but doesn’t do the arithmetic to form a
national savings rate.  Fortunately, foreigners, including governments, are
investing in the U.S. They see good investment opportunities
that we aren’t capturing. The amount of foreign investment
coming, on net, into the U.S. constitutes our current-account
deficit. Our failure to save explains why this gap is so huge.  Unfortunately, foreigners could turn off the spigot. The
Chinese government has started to do so. Since July 2009, it has
been gradually selling its holdings of  U.S. Treasuries . Other
countries may follow suit, leading to the great U.S. bond bust
that many fear.  Personal Consumption  So, why aren’t we saving? The answer is personal
consumption. Fourteen percentage points of the 16 percentage-
point decline in the national savings rate since 1965 reflects a
higher rate of personal consumption. A higher government
consumption rate explains the other two percentage points.  Incidentally, the increase in the rate of government
consumption isn’t defense-related; defense consumption actually
fell by three percentage points as a share of national income
over the period.  Our propensity to consume, privately and publicly,
continues to rise. The rates of personal and government
consumption are both higher now than they were in 2007, although
the government consumption rate has risen by more of late.  If personal consumption is the main villain for the long-
term savings rate decline, whose consumption has risen? The
answer is the elderly. Over the past five decades, our policy of
taking ever larger sums from young savers and giving them to old
spenders has more than doubled the ratio of average consumption
of oldsters to average consumption of youngsters.  Overspending on Elderly  Much of this redistribution has taken place through Social
Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. Collectively, these three
programs spent $1.2 trillion on the elderly last year. Their
total payment per oldster equaled a whopping $30,000, which is
three-quarters of U.S. per-capita income. And, about half of
this total constituted Medicare and Medicaid benefits, which are
provided to the elderly directly in the form of personal
consumption of health-care goods and services.  The bottom line? If we are serious about reversing the
decline in national saving, we need to stop expropriating the
young for the benefit of the old.    Laurence J. Kotlikoff  is a professor of economics at  Boston University  and author of   Jimmy Stewart  Is Dead: Ending
the World’s Ongoing Financial Plague with Limited Purpose
Banking.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@bu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  