-- Potash Swap Costs Rise Amid Doubts About BHP Bid: Canada Credit
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-09-24T19:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/potash-swap-costs-rise-amid-doubts-about-bhp-bid-canada-credit.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
bondholders are losing confidence that BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40
billion bid for the fertilizer maker will succeed and will
instead be bought in a debt-laden takeover.  The cost of hedging against losses in debt of Potash Corp.
for five years with credit-default swaps has risen for seven
straight days, advancing 48.5 basis points to 148.5 basis points
since Sept. 15, according to data provider CMA. The price of the
contracts is at the highest level since April 2009.  The increase suggests fixed-income investors are pricing in
a greater chance that the world’s largest producer of its
namesake nutrient may be purchased by management in a takeover
that could cause the Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company’s
credit ratings to drop. Potash’s bonds rallied when Melbourne-
based BHP, which is rated two levels higher than Potash by
Standard & Poor’s, announced its offer last month.  A management-led counter-bid for Potash Corp. “would
change the financial structure from what we know today,” said
 Ernie Lalonde , senior vice president of mining for Toronto-based
rating company DBRS Ltd. “That kind of structure might end up
with higher debt levels.”  The swaps had the biggest increase in the last month among
30 Canadian companies tracked by Bloomberg. They’ve also had the
largest gain among swaps in the world for basic-materials
companies over the same period.  Offer Rejected  Potash Corp. rejected the $130-a-share offer from BHP and
said it had started talks with other parties. BHP said yesterday
it has cleared one regulatory hurdle by being granted early
termination by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the
Antitrust Division of the Justice Department of the mandatory
waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust
Improvements Act.  Lalonde and other analysts, including  Joel Levington ,
managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in New York, said if Potash Corp. is bought by
BHP, the risk to bondholders would fall to levels closer to BHP,
which traded at 104.3 points yesterday. Potash Corp. bonds are
rated A- by S&P, and analysts said the rise in swaps doesn’t
reflect a worsening of its balance sheet.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Calloway Real Estate
Investment Trust, Canada’s third-largest REIT by market value,
sold C$100 million ($97 million) of 5 percent notes due in
February 2019 at a spread of 232 basis points over government
benchmarks. The sale was led by Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce and Calloway said it will use a portion of the proceeds
to redeem 10.25 percent unsecured notes.  Enbridge Notes  Enbridge Inc. sold C$100 million of 5.12 percent notes due
in September 2040 at a spread of 170 points over the government
benchmarks and C$200 million of 4.26 percent notes due in
February 2021 at a spread of 144 points. The sales were led by
TD Securities.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canada’s companies rather than federal government securities
narrowed one basis point to 145 basis points yesterday, the
least since Aug. 30, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index. Yields fell to 3.70 percent, from 3.73 percent.  In the nation’s provincial debt market, spreads held at 56
basis points. The yield fell to 2.99 percent yesterday, from 3
percent the day before.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond yield dropped 3
basis points to 2.83 percent as the price of the 3.5 percent
security due in June 2020 rose 27 cents to C$105.66.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The swap levels imply a BBB rating for Potash Corp. bonds -
- compared with a composite rating of BBB+ calculated by
Bloomberg -- and BBB+ rating for BHP bonds -- versus a Bloomberg
composite of A+.  There are many possible scenarios for Potash Corp.,
Levington said, and those that involve lower-rated entities
bidding for the company are “not particularly good for Potash
CDS, at least relative to where it is today.”  Potash and BHP bonds, whose yields converged to a gap of 3
basis points on Aug. 19, have since diverged with a spread of as
much as 85 basis points. The difference in yields was 69 basis
points at yesterday’s close, with BHP’s 6.5 percent bonds due in
2019 yielding 3.44 percent and Potash Corp.’s 4.875 percent
notes due in 2020 returning 4.12 percent.  ‘Plenty of Cash’  It’s difficult to know why investors would worry about
Potash Corp. debt, because “they generate a ton of cash,
they’ve got plenty of cash, they don’t have that much debt and
then if they would accept the  BHP  deal, there would be no issue
there,” said  Brian Yarbrough , an analyst with Edward Jones &
Co. who  recommends  retail investors sell shares because it’s
unclear who could outbid BHP.  Mikhail Foux , a credit strategist with Citigroup Inc. in
New York, said he sees the potential for swaps to trade between
200 and 400 points if Potash Corp.  management  presents a buyout
bid to counter BHP, depending on how the transaction is
structured.  “There’s a lot of concern about what could happen,” Foux
said. If BHP buys the fertilizer company, “Potash spreads
should rally substantially,” dropping to between 50 and 70
basis points after the transaction, he said.  If all bids fail, then the five-year swap will trade
between 100 and 110 basis points, which is higher than the 90
basis points it traded at before BHP’s offer, as investors may
expect further developments in the future, Foux said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 