-- Precision, TransDigm Said to Bid in $1 Billion McKechnie Aerospace Sale
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-09-24T21:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/precision-transdigm-said-to-bid-in-1-billion-mckechnie-sale.html
Precision Castparts Corp.  and
 TransDigm Group Inc.  are bidding for rival aircraft component
maker McKechnie Aerospace, which may fetch more than $1 billion,
said people with knowledge of the discussions.  Carlyle Group, the Washington-based buyout firm, also
submitted an offer this week for closely held McKechnie, owned
by New York-based private-equity firm JLL Partners Inc. and by
Morgan Stanley’s buyout unit, said the people, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the talks are private.
McKechnie’s owners may agree to a sale as soon as next week, the
people said.  McKechnie makes fasteners, latches and valves for aircraft,
including those built by  Boeing Co.  and Airbus SAS. The world’s
two biggest planemakers are boosting output to records starting
next year as airlines recover from the recession and seek newer,
more fuel-efficient jets to refresh and expand their fleets.
They’re also trying to cut costs and streamline partnerships
with vendors as they develop new models.  “There’s substantial pent-up demand for continued
consolidation among commercial-aviation partsmakers,” said
 William Alderman  of  Alderman & Co. Capital LLC  in Ridgefield,
Connecticut, a broker specializing in the aerospace industry.
“The trend and the need for this rationalization did not change
during the recession; it was simply delayed.”  Shares Advance  Precision Castparts  rose $4.64, or 3.7 percent, to $131.38
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
TransDigm gained $1.13, or 1.9 percent, to $62.24.  Dwight Weber , a spokesman for Precision Castparts, and
Chris Ullman, of Carlyle, declined to comment. A spokesman for
TransDigm didn’t return messages.  Brett Milgrim , a managing
director at JLL, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Erica Platt , a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Executives from Irvine, California-based McKechnie weren’t
available to comment.  With  revenue  of $5.5 billion last fiscal year, Portland,
Oregon-based Precision Castparts makes components for jet
engines, power turbines and prosthetics for customers including
 General Electric Co.  and  United Technologies Corp.  Cleveland-
based TransDigm, which makes parts for jets including flight-
control and lavatory hardware, was once owned by private-equity
firm Warburg Pincus and had sales of $762 million last year.  Precision Castparts Chief Executive Officer  Mark Donegan 
said in January that he was seeking further acquisitions in the
power and fasteners  industries  after recently buying stakes in
plants in China and California.  JLL and Morgan Stanley have been seeking bids for McKechnie
for several months. They bought the company in 2007 for $850
million from Melrose Plc, the London-based component maker.
Before that, it was owned by Cinven Ltd., the U.K. private-
equity firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 