-- Put on the High Heels, Hon, and Come to an Autopsy: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-09-24T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/put-on-the-high-heels-hon-and-come-to-an-autopsy-ann-woolner.html
The district attorney I dated for
more than a decade never invited me to an autopsy. Somehow, I
didn’t notice the slight.  This comes to my attention now because the lead prosecutor
in rural  Calumet County , Wisconsin, is under investigation. As
many as four women claim he tried to use his office as leverage
for sex, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel  reported  this week.  One met the married prosecutor, Kenneth Kratz, through
Match.com and alleges that he offered to take her to a post-
mortem exam. He urged her to wear a skirt and high heels.  (This settles that nagging dilemma of what to wear to the
dissection of a human corpse.)  In an apparent attempt to impress her with his job, he
disclosed confidential details of a case. The other three women
have more serious complaints. Two had come to him as victims of
domestic violence and say he tried to seduce them while
prosecuting their abusers.  A fourth, now a law student, says Kratz sought sexual
favors after he agreed to recommend her for a pardon from a drug
conviction.  As for the autopsy accusation, Kratz’s lawyer says it’s
“completely ridiculous” that his client suggested bonding over
a dead body.  But Kratz admits to worse conduct. And what he is said to
have done is no joke.  Text messages show he became obsessed by 26-year-old
Stephanie Van Groll, who came to him for help last October.
After meeting her and hearing her describe abuse she had
suffered in her relationship, he sent 30  messages  to her during
a three-day span.  ‘Young Hot Nymph’  “You may be the tall, young hot nymph, but I am the
prize,” he texted.  “I’m the atty. I have the $350,000 house. I have the 6-
figure career,” boasted Kratz, who is 50.  She thought him not much of a prize and reported him to
police.  At first Kratz denied his messages to her were sexual. But
how then to explain these texts, disclosed in the police file:  “Are you the kind of girl that likes secret contact with
an older married elected DA . . . the riskier the better?”  And when Van Groll said she wouldn’t want to be the Other
Woman, this reply came:  “I would want you to be so hot and treat me so well that
you’d be THE woman! R U that good,” he asked.  Not Just Embarrassing  This might be merely embarrassing to Kratz if it weren’t
for the fact that he was prosecuting Van Groll’s ex-boyfriend on
a  charge  of strangulation for choking her.  Van Groll feared that if she didn’t do as Kratz wanted, he
would dismiss the case or, as he had suggested at their first
and only meeting, reduce the charge to a misdemeanor, she told
police.  Whether implied or inferred, the idea of a quid pro quo is
only one reason it’s an abuse of power for a prosecutor to come
on to crime victims.  Plus, the last thing a domestic abuse victim needs is for a
man in a position to help her to use that position of trust as a
vehicle for his own sexual gratification.  After police got involved, Kratz stepped off the case,
which was assigned to another prosecutor. The former boyfriend
was eventually convicted of felony strangulation, according to
the Associated Press.  But nothing happened to Kratz for almost a year. A lawyer’s
disciplinary panel declined to punish him, and criminal
investigators decided no crime had occurred.  Landing in Trouble  It was only after the Associated Press  reported  Kratz’s
sexting last week that he finally landed in trouble. Since then,
the other three women have come forward with complaints,
including the one who says she turned down his invitation to an
autopsy.  One more thing. Kratz headed the Wisconsin Crime Victim
Rights  Board  at the time he was sexting Van Groll. Perhaps that,
too, was just another way to troll for dates.  So yesterday, Governor  Jim Doyle  of Wisconsin  began  the
process of removing him from office, naming a special prosecutor
to determine whether there is cause.  As for Kratz, he is on medical leave and is taking in-
patient therapy, his lawyer tells reporters. But last week the
prosecutor was  saying  he planned to run for re-election in 2012.
He has been D.A. for 17 years.  At a press conference last week, Kratz called his behavior
in the Van Groll matter “inappropriate” and said he is
“embarrassed and ashamed.”  Tennessee Case  Although prosecutors who use their positions for sexual
gain are no doubt rare, Kratz wouldn’t be the first or the last
accused of it. An assistant district attorney in Bolivar,
Tennessee, lost his job last month after two women complained
that he tried to coerce them into sex in exchange for dropping
charges against them. He is under  investigation .  Whether the accused is a prosecutor, a judge or a lawmaker,
gaining public office ought to tame any careless instincts
instead of inflaming them. They are responsible to more people
and are more vulnerable to scrutiny.  That wisdom comes from my aforementioned boyfriend, who is
now my husband and retired. And, by the way, he has never
attended an autopsy.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  