-- Qatar, Greece Signs $5 Billion Memorandum of Understanding on Investment
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2010-09-24T16:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/qatar-greece-signs-5-billion-memorandum-of-understanding-on-investment.html
Qatar signed a memorandum with
Greece expressing interest in investing as much as $5 billion in
areas of the Greek economy such as tourism and real estate.  Greece and Qatar will look at cooperating on promoting
investment projects and opportunities between the Qatar
Investment Authority and its affiliates and the Hellenic
Republic, according to a copy of the memorandum e-mailed today
by Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s office.  The countries will focus on investments in real estate,
tourism, transport, port or airport facilities, banking and
finance, joint ventures, energy and other industries, when and
as agreed by the two states, according to the memorandum.  The Qatar Investment Authority intends to invest with an
aggregate target budget of as much as $5 billion, according to
the memorandum.  A joint committee, to be chaired by State Minister Haris
Pamboukis for Greece and for Qatar by  Ahmad M. Al-Sayed ,
Secretary to the Board of the Qatar Investment Authority and
Chief Executive of the authority’s affiliate, Qatar Holding LLC,
will meet in Athens and Doha alternatively every three months to
evaluate possible investment opportunities.  Papandreou  is seeking foreign investment to help Greece
return to growth. The economy is expected to contract 4 percent
this year and 2.6 percent in 2011, before resuming growth in
2012.  The non-binding memorandum was signed in New York yesterday
in the presence of Papandreou and  Pamboukis , who has
responsibility for investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Tugwell  in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net  or
 Natalie Weeks  in Athens 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  