-- Trade Minister Van Loan Says China's Currency Policies Risking Backlash
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-09-24T16:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/trade-minister-van-loan-says-china-s-currency-policies-risking-backlash.html
Canadian Trade Minister  Peter Van Loan  said China’s currency policies risk fueling a public
backlash against Chinese investments in the North American
country, and allowing the yuan to move freely could reduce trade
imbalances.  “The risk for the Chinese is that if Canadians politically
begin to feel that they are too disadvantaged you’re going to
start seeing the kind of reactions you’re seeing in the United
States,” Van Loan, 47, said an interview in his parliamentary
office. “We don’t want to see that. We want to keep trade open,
we want to keep investment open.”  While Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  and Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  have complained for years about the slow
pace of China’s currency adjustment, Canada hasn’t threatened
new tariffs and has courted Chinese investment in a bid to
reduce dependence on the U.S. economy and expand natural
resource exports.  China Petrochemical Corp., the Beijing-based company known
as Sinopec Group, earlier this year acquired a 9 percent stake
in Syncrude Canada Ltd. That followed last year’s acquisition by
PetroChina Co., China’s largest oil company, of a 60 percent
stake in a project run by Athabasca Oil Sands Corp and the sale
by Vancouver-based Teck Resources Ltd. of a 17 percent stake to
China’s sovereign wealth fund.  More Investment  BHP Billiton Ltd. may also face competition from China in
its takeover bid of Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., with
Sinochem Group hiring Deutsche Bank AG and Citigroup Inc. to
assess them, the Financial Times said Sept. 21.  Van Loan declined to comment on the BHP bid.  “Clearly, that’s our philosophy as a government, we want
to see more” foreign investments, Van Loan said. “As for any
individual transaction, that has to be evaluated by the
minister” of industry.  Industry Minister  Tony Clement  would need to approve any
foreign takeover of Potash Corp.  Canadian businesses also face other types of
“protectionist” measures as they seek to export and invest in
the Asian country, Van Loan said, citing restrictions on canola
imports.  Officials have said Canada is bearing a disproportionate
share of global adjustment because it has a flexible exchange
rate. Canada, which had a three-decade run of trade surpluses
until December, 2008, has posted  record deficits  since amid
slumping sales to the U.S. The Canadian dollar has gained 20
percent against the U.S. dollar over the past 18 months, the
fifth-most among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  U.S. Pressure  U.S. officials also have been ramping up pressure on China
to let the yuan rise more quickly as November elections
approach. The House of Representatives will vote next week on
legislation that would let companies petition for higher duties
on Chinese goods to compensate for the effect of the exchange
rate, after a committee approved the measure today.  The yuan has appreciated about 2 percent against the dollar
since June 19, when the central bank said it would pursue a more
flexible exchange rate after keeping the currency at about 6.83
versus the U.S. currency for almost two years.  “They want to be seen as a market economy, they want to
have the benefits of that,” Van Loan said about China. “Well
one of the fundamentals of a market economy is that you let your
currency float freely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 