-- TransCanada Plans Early 2011 Start of Keystone Pipeline Cushing Extension
-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 2010-09-24T15:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/transcanada-plans-early-2011-start-of-keystone-system-s-cushing-extension.html
TransCanada Corp. , Canada’s biggest
pipeline operator, expects the Cushing Extension of the Keystone
system to be in service in the first quarter next year, a
company executive said.  “We are about 80 percent complete on the pipeline and
about 75 percent complete on facilities,” Ken Murchie, a
director of pipeline development, said today at the Platts
Pipeline Development and Expansion conference in Houston. “We
are looking at having construction completed this year.”  The Cushing Extension, the second phase of the $12 billion
Keystone pipeline project, extends a 36-inch pipeline from
Steele City, Nebraska, to Cushing, Oklahoma, and will increase
capacity to 591,000 barrels a day, he said.  TransCanada’s Keystone pipeline, which runs more than 3,800
miles (6,200 kilometers), will move crude oil from western
Canada to the U.S. Midwest and Gulf Coast.  The pipeline is being built in stages. The first phase,
from Hardisty, Alberta, to Wood River and Patoka, Illinois,
started service in mid-2010 with a throughput capacity of
435,000 barrels a day.  The U.S. Gulf Coast expansion, the third phase of the
project and known as Keystone XL, will be operational by early
2013 if regulatory approvals are completed, Murchie said. The XL
extension will extend from Cushing to Nederland, Texas, linking
refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast to Canada’s oil sands.  More Scrutiny  U.S. politicians and environment groups have increased
attention to the project in the wake of the BP Plc well blowout
in the Gulf of Mexico and a leak in a pipeline operated by
Canadian rival  Enbridge Inc.  in Michigan.  “We weren’t that surprised by additional scrutiny after
these events,” Murchie said. The additional 90 days that’s been
added to the review of applications by the U.S. State Department
has not altered TransCanada’s plans to start construction on the
Gulf Coast expansion in 2011, he said.  The Calgary-based company withdrew an application on Aug. 5
to run the Keystone XL pipeline at higher-than-normal pressure.
The lower pressure will reduce Keystone’s capacity to 700,000
barrels daily from 900,000, Robert Jones, vice president of the
pipeline project, said in an interview in August.  TransCanada became the sole owner of the Keystone pipeline
system in June after buying ConocoPhillips’s interest in the
project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leela Landress  in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  