-- Rays Move Half-Game Behind Yankees, Giants Take NL West Lead From Padres
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-09-24T04:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/rays-move-half-game-behind-yankees-giants-tie-braves-for-nl-wild-card.html
B.J. Upton’s  two-run double
highlighted a seven-run sixth inning and the Tampa Bay Rays
moved within a half-game of the New York Yankees with a 10-3 win
in their battle atop the American League East division.  Tampa (91-61) won the last two games to split the four-game
series in New York (92-61). The Rays have 10 games left in the
Major League Baseball regular season, while the Yankees have
nine, including six against the Boston Red Sox.  Marcus Thames’s  two-run home run last night had given the
Yankees a 3-1 lead entering the sixth, and  CC Sabathia  was on
the mound for New York seeking his 21st win of the season.
Instead, the Rays sent 11 men to the plate in the sixth inning
and then added two more runs in the seventh. The Rays lead the
Red Sox by seven games in the AL wild-card standings.  The San Francisco Giants moved back into the lead in the
National League West by winning 13-0 at Chicago while the San
Diego Padres lost 3-1 at Los Angeles. The Padres trail the
Giants by a half-game, and are a half-game behind the Atlanta
Braves in the race for the NL wild-card spot.  Juan Uribe  hit a grand slam and a two-run homer in the
Giants’ nine-run second inning against the Cubs.  Two players accomplished hitting milestones in yesterday’s
game between the Seattle Mariners and the host Toronto Blue Jays,
neither of which is heading to the playoffs.  Seattle’s  Ichiro Suzuki , 36, became the first player in MLB
history to have at least 200 hits in 10 straight seasons. He
tied  Pete Rose  as the only players with 10 200-hit seasons.  Also in that game, Toronto’s  Jose Bautista , 29, became the
26th player in major league history to hit 50 home runs in a
season. The Blue Jays won 1-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  