-- RBS Securities Is Said to Hire Sinche as Global Head of Currency Strategy
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2010-09-24T20:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/rbs-securities-said-to-hire-sinche-as-head-of-currency-strategy.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
hired  Robert Sinche  as global head of foreign-exchange strategy,
according to a person familiar with the agreement who isn’t
authorized to speak publically on the matter.  Sinche, who has more than 30 years of experience in the
foreign-exchange market, joins RBS Securities Inc.’s global
banking and markets strategy group, the person said. The 58-
year-old analyst joins from Lily Pond Capital Management, where
he was the chief strategist for the investment firm and was
responsible for global economic and policy analysis.  Michael Geller , spokesman for RBS in Stamford, Connecticut, declined to
comment.  Sinche will be based in Stamford, filling the position
vacated by  Alan Ruskin , who resigned as global head of foreign
exchange strategy at RBS on July 1. Sinche will report to  John Richards , head of markets strategy, Americas and  David Simmonds ,
global head of research and strategy. Ruskin is global head of
Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New
York.  At Lily Pond, Sinche analyzed global economies, capital
flows and monetary and fiscal policy with a focus on foreign
exchange, the New York-based firm said when he joined in
December. Prior to joining Lily Pond, Sinche was head of
strategy for global rates, currencies and commodities at Bank of
America Corp.  Sinche left Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America 
in January 2009 after the acquisition of  Merrill Lynch & Co.  He
left behind a currency team that finished third among 46 firms
in a Bloomberg survey based on his forecasts for the 18 months
ended in June 2009.  Euromoney Rankings  Before joining Bank of America in 2004 he worked for six
years as head of global currency strategy at  Citigroup Inc.  He
ranked first in foreign-exchange research in the 2004 Euromoney
magazine poll of currency investors, topping all eight
categories of the research portion.  Prior to joining Citigroup, Sinche worked at firms
including Prudential Investment Corp. and Alliance Capital Ltd.
He began his career at Paine Webber in 1976 as an economist. He
holds a bachelor’s degree in economics from Hamilton College and
a master’s degree in economics from Brown University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Sara Eisen  in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  