-- Treasuries Rise for Sixth Day, Longest Gain Since December 2008
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-09-24T03:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/treasuries-gain-a-sixth-day-before-report-that-may-show-durable-goods-fell.html
Treasury 10-year notes headed for a
sixth straight gain, the longest winning streak since yields
fell to a record in 2008, before a report economists said will
show orders for U.S. durable goods dropped in August.  Five-year yields approached the least ever as the Federal
Reserve prepared to  buy  Treasuries maturing from September 2014
to August 2016 today, part of its effort to keep borrowing costs
down. Two-year  rates  were about one basis point away from their
record low after the central bank said this week it’s willing to
ease monetary policy further.  “Treasuries due in 10 years and longer are attractive,”
said  Hiromasa Nakamura , who helps oversee the equivalent of
$35.5 billion as a senior investor at Mizuho Asset Management
Co. in Tokyo. “There is the possibility of deflation. The Fed’s
next move will be government bond purchases. The market welcomed
that news.” Mizuho plans to buy in the coming weeks, he said.  The 10-year yield dropped one basis point to 2.55 percent
as of 12:23 p.m. in Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data.
The 2.625 percent security due August 2020 gained 2/32, or 63
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 21/32.  The six-day rally was the longest since the period ended
Dec. 18, 2008. That day, yields dropped to a record 2.04 percent
as the global financial crisis that led to $1.81 trillion of
losses and writedowns at banks and financial companies spurred
demand for the relative safety of U.S. government debt.  Two days earlier, the Fed cut its target for overnight bank
loans to a range of zero to 0.25 percent and it has kept it
there since.  Five-Year Yield  The five-year note yielded 1.31 percent after the rate slid
as low as 1.26 percent yesterday, also the least since December
2008. The two-year yield was 0.42 percent, versus the all-time
low of 0.4074 percent reached on Sept. 22.  Bookings  for goods meant to last at least three years fell
1 percent, the biggest drop in a year, according to the  median
forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A separate
report today may show sales of new houses climbed last month
from the lowest ever.  Boeing Co., the world’s second-biggest commercial-plane
maker, said it received 10 orders last month compared with 130
in July.  The Federal Open Market Committee said Sept. 21 inflation
is “somewhat below” levels consistent with the central bank’s
congressional mandate for stable prices. The Fed said it is
“prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed.”  Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased in
August for a fifth month at an annual rate of 0.9 percent,
matching the slowest year-over-year rate of gains since 1966,
the Labor Department said Sept. 17.  TIPS  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices, was 1.81 percentage points.
The five-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  Former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who is an adviser to
President  Barack Obama , said he doesn’t expect a broad-based
decline in prices.  “I’m not worried about deflation,” Volcker told reporters
yesterday after a speech in Chicago. “I think we’re on a path
to price stability. I do not think we should be worried about
and consumed by the problem of a potential deflation that
doesn’t exist.”  The Fed said in August it would use the principal payments
from its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities and
agency debt to buy Treasuries. This week’s statement fueled
speculation the central bank will make additional purchases that
add securities to its  balance sheet , a measure known as
quantitative easing. The central bank snapped up $300 billion of
 Treasuries  in 2009 using this strategy.  “For the next two or three weeks, every single economic
statistic will be picked over, and anything showing weakness
will lead to market rallies and lower yields,” said  Ray Remy ,
head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa Securities Group Inc.,
one of the 18 primary dealers that trade directly with the
central bank. “Everybody will expect the Fed to step in, step
in at any second.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 