-- Treasuries Head for Weekly Gain as Durable Goods May Decline
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-09-24T06:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/treasuries-head-for-weekly-advance-as-durable-goods-orders-set-to-decline.html
Treasuries headed for their biggest
weekly advance since May before a report economists said will
show orders for U.S. durable goods dropped in August by the most
in a year.  Five-year yields approached a record low as the Federal
Reserve prepared to  buy  Treasuries maturing from September 2014
to August 2016 today, part of its effort to keep borrowing costs
down. Notes trimmed gains as Japanese stocks recouped losses on
speculation Japan sold yen to help protect exporters.  “Treasuries due in 10 years and longer are attractive,”
said  Hiromasa Nakamura , who helps oversee the equivalent of
$35.5 billion as a senior investor at Mizuho Asset Management Co.
in Tokyo. “There is the possibility of deflation. The Fed’s
next move will be government bond purchases. The market welcomed
that news.” Mizuho plans to buy in the coming weeks, he said.  The 10-year yield fell two basis points to 2.54 percent as
of 7:09 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market Data. The
2.625 percent security due August 2020 climbed 1/8, or $1.25 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 23/32. The yield dropped 20 basis
points this week, the most since the period ended May 21,
Bloomberg data show.  Yen Intervention  Ten-year notes, which were up as much as 6/32 earlier today,
trimmed gains after Kyodo News cited an unidentified market
source as saying Japan sold its currency to spur it economy.  The Nikkei 225 fell 1 percent, after being down 1.6 percent
earlier today.  The yen slumped 0.6 percent to 84.90 per dollar, snapping a
four-day gain. Japan’s government said Sept. 15 it sold yen for
the first time since 2004, leading the currency to plunge and
stocks to soar.  Japan’s currency also slid on speculation Bank of Japan
Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  planned to leave his job. Shirakawa
has no plan to resign, the Bank of Japan’s press office said.  A gain for 10-year notes today would be a sixth daily
advance, the longest since the period ended Dec. 18, 2008. That
day, yields dropped to a record 2.04 percent as the global
financial crisis that led to $1.81 trillion of losses and
writedowns at banks and financial companies spurred demand for
the relative safety of U.S. government debt.  The five-year note yielded 1.31 percent after the rate slid
as low as 1.26 percent yesterday, also the least since December
2008. The two-year yield was 0.42 percent, versus the all-time
low of 0.4074 percent reached on Sept. 22.  Durable Goods  Bookings  for goods meant to last at least three years fell
1 percent, the biggest drop in a year, according to the  median
forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A separate
report today may show  sales  of new houses climbed from the
lowest ever.  Boeing Co., the world’s second-biggest commercial-plane
maker, said it received 10 orders last month compared with 130
in July.  The Fed said Sept. 21 inflation is “somewhat below”
levels consistent with the central bank’s congressional mandate
for stable prices. The Fed said it is “prepared to provide
additional accommodation if needed.”  Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased in
August for a fifth month at an annual rate of 0.9 percent,
matching the slowest year-over-year rate of gains since 1966,
the Labor Department said Sept. 17.  Inflation Expectations  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices, was 1.82 percentage points.
The five-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  Former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who is an adviser to
President  Barack Obama , said he doesn’t expect a broad-based
decline in prices.  “I’m not worried about deflation,” Volcker told reporters
yesterday after a speech in Chicago. “I do not think we should
be worried about and consumed by the problem of a potential
deflation that doesn’t exist.”  The Fed said in August it would use the principal payments
from its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities and
agency debt to buy Treasuries. This week’s statement fueled
speculation the central bank will make additional purchases that
add securities to its  balance sheet , a measure known as
quantitative easing. The central bank snapped up $300 billion of
 Treasuries  in 2009 using this strategy.  “For the next two or three weeks, every single economic
statistic will be picked over, and anything showing weakness
will lead to market rallies,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed
income in New York at Daiwa Securities Group Inc., one of the 18
primary dealers that trade directly with the central bank.
“Everybody will expect the Fed to step in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 