-- Recession Hurt More Than Half of Americans, Pew Survey Finds
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-09-24T18:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/recession-brought-hardship-to-more-than-half-of-americans-pew-survey-says.html
The worst economic slowdown since
the Great Depression hurt more than half of Americans,
especially younger people, minorities and those with a high
school education or less, a  Pew Research Center  survey found.  “For a narrow majority of Americans, 55 percent, the Great
Recession brought a mix of  hardships , usually in combination: a
spell of  unemployment , missed  mortgage  or rent payments,
shrinking paychecks and shattered household budgets,” according
to the survey released today in Washington. “But for the other
45 percent of the country, the recession was largely free of
such difficulties.”  The survey, taken May 11-31, reflects the responses of
2,967 people to eight questions designed to measure economic
 hardships  experienced during the recession. The margin of error
was plus or minus 2.2 percentage points.  Demographics largely distinguished people who “lost
ground,” including those who lost jobs, had trouble paying rent
or had to borrow money from family or friends to pay bills, the
survey found. Whites, older adults, the better educated and the
more affluent were significantly less likely to report they made
major lifestyle changes because of the economy, the survey said.  Almost half of all white respondents surveyed “held their
own” during the recession compared with 33 percent of blacks
and 29 percent of Hispanics. Additionally, older adults were
“more sheltered” than younger people as about seven in 10
people aged 65 and older “held their own,” the survey said.  Only 47 percent of people in the eastern U.S. lost ground
during the recession compared with almost 60 percent of the
population feeling financial stresses in the Midwest, South and
West, the survey said. The recession adversely affected a
smaller proportion of suburban and rural residents than those in
cities.  Withdrew Savings  Almost two-thirds of those who fared worse withdrew money
from savings and retirement funds, while 43 percent were jobless
at some point during the recession, the survey found.  The half that better weathered the slump reported few
instances of declining  family income , a need to withdraw money
from savings and retirement to pay bills or of deteriorating
finances, the survey found. Less than 1 percent said they were
unemployed.  The recession most affected peoples’ spending habits,
according to the survey. Slightly more than half of those who
faced no major struggles during the recession reported their
single biggest adjustment was in spending, compared with 33
percent of those who lost ground.  About half the people in both groups reported declining
home values. About eight out of 10 people surveyed said they
believe that “buying a home is the best investment that the
average person can make.”  The Pew Research Center calls itself a non-partisan “fact
tank” providing “information on the issues, attitudes and
trends shaping America and the world,” according to the
Washington-based organization’s  website .  Pew’s Social &
Demographic Trends  project carried out the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  