-- Tropical Storm Matthew Sweeps Across Honduras Bringing Heavy Rain, Winds
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-09-25T13:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/tropical-storm-matthew-won-t-grow-to-hurricane-before-landfall-u-s-says.html
Tropical Storm Matthew caused heavy
rain and strong winds as it swept across Honduras while a storm
warning was issued for part of the coast of Belize in Central
America, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  The storm’s maximum sustained winds slowed to 45 miles (72
kilometers) per hour from 50 mph, the Miami-based center said in
its latest advisory. Matthew, located about 85 miles east-
southeast of Monkey River Town, Belize, may begin to slow
further after the next two days as it moves toward the west-
northwest at 16 mph, the center said. It will move across Belize
and northern Guatemala later today and tonight.  “A gradual weakening should continue today,” according to
the center’s latest advisory. The storm may produce as much as
10 inches (25 centimeters) of rain over parts of Honduras,
southern Belize, and Guatemala, the center said, with as much as
15 inches possible in isolated areas.  Seven people died in Caracas, Venezuela, due to heavy rains
from Matthew, Agence France-Presse reported today, citing fire
department officials. The victims died yesterday in the Santa
Ana de Antimano neighborhood after their home was flooded, the
news agency said.  A tropical storm warning is in effect for the coast of
Honduras including the offshore islands and the coast of Belize
from Belize City southward. Nicaragua ended its tropical storm
warning from Puerto Cabezas northward to the border with
Honduras.  Evacuate Towns  Nicaraguan President  Daniel Ortega  declared shelters opened
in eastern Nicaragua, where the storm is expected to come ashore
near Cabo Gracias a Dios and the port town of Puerto Cabezas.  Authorities are evacuating the Miskito Keys, where
subsistence fishermen catch turtles for meat, and set up 90
shelters along the Caribbean coast.  Honduras has sent crews to evacuate towns at risk for
floods and mudslides, according to Copeco, the nation’s
emergency response agency.  El Salvador’s disaster agency declared an alert that
activated the country’s emergency response center, called on
fishermen to come in from sea, and warned residents to beware of
potential landslides, according to an e-mailed statement.  In the Atlantic, Hurricane  Lisa  is showing signs of
weakening and may become a tropical storm later today, according
to a separate Hurricane Center advisory as of 5 a.m. New York
time.  Lisa is about 470 miles northwest of the Cape Verde Islands
with maximum sustained winds that have decreased to 75 miles per
hour, the center said. The storm is a Category 1 on the five-
step Saffir-Simpson scale measuring hurricane intensity.  Gas Futures  The reduced threat of Matthew moving as a hurricane into
the Gulf of Mexico, home to 31 percent of U.S. oil and 10
percent of gas production, helped push gas futures lower
yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange for the first time
in four days.  “This storm could go into Mexico or Honduras and break
apart,” said  Mike Rose , the director of energy trading for
Angus Jackson Inc. in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. “The storm was
forecast over a week ago, and traders who bought contracts then
are unwinding their positions now.”  Natural gas for October delivery fell 13.8 cents, or 3.4
percent, to $3.881 per million British thermal units in New
York. Futures declined 3.6 percent this week.  The southern gulf also contains the Petroleos Mexicanos’s
Cantarell oil field, the country’s largest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Blake Schmidt  in Grenada, Nicaragua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net . 