-- Tropical Storm Matthew May Become Hurricane in Caribbean, Strike Honduras
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-09-24T12:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/tropical-storm-matthew-may-become-hurricane-today-heading-toward-honduras.html
Tropical Storm Matthew may near
hurricane strength later today before hitting the Nicaragua-
Honduras border along its Caribbean coast and continuing on a
course toward Belize and Mexico’s Yucatan peninsula.  Matthew’s winds increased to 50 miles (85 kilometers) an
hour from 45 mph earlier today, the National Hurricane Center
said in a website  advisory  at 6 a.m. Honduras time. A hurricane
warning was in place from Puerto Cabezas in Nicaragua to Limon,
Honduras, including offshore islands such as Roatan, indicating
winds of at least 74 mph are expected within 36 hours.  “Matthew could be near hurricane strength before it moves
close to Central America late today,” the Miami-based center
said. “The center of Matthew is expected to be near or over
northeastern Nicaragua and eastern Honduras later today.”  Matthew helped push natural gas futures higher over
concerns that the system may develop into a hurricane and
threaten energy interests in the Gulf of Mexico, home to 31
percent of U.S. oil production and 10 percent of gas. The
southern gulf also contains the Petroleos Mexicanos’s Cantarell
oil field, Mexico’s largest.  “We’ve been moving higher undoubtedly on expectations of
shut-ins in the Gulf,”  Stephen Schork , president of Schork
Group Inc., a consulting company in Villanova, Pennsylvania,
said yesterday.  Matthew was about 170 miles east-southeast of the
Nicaragua-Honduras border moving west at 16 mph, the hurricane
center said. Its forecast map shows the storm hitting near the
border with tropical-storm strength winds, or 39 mph to 73 mph.  Honduras to Mexico  The center’s track shows Matthew grazing Honduras’s east
coast before striking Belize early Sunday, Sept. 26, then
turning northwest into the tip of Guatemala and to Mexico’s
Yucatan early Tuesday, Sept. 28, on a course toward the Gulf.
The center has said repeatedly its long-range tracks can be off
by several hundred miles.  The center warned of heavy rainfall over portions of
Nicaragua and Honduras of six to 15 inches in isolated areas,
including life-threatening flash floods and possible landslides.  In the Atlantic, Tropical Storm  Lisa  was about 295 miles
northwest of the Cape Verde Islands, according to the center’s
website at about 4:45 a.m. Miami time. The storm, with sustained
winds of 40 mph, was moving northeast at 5 mph and poses no
immediate threat to land.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net 
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  