-- Rubber Retreats From Five-Month High on Growth Concern, Lower Oil Price
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-09-24T07:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/rubber-retreats-from-five-month-high-on-growth-concern-lower-oil-price.html
Rubber declined from a five-month
high as a drop in global stock markets raised concern that the
economic recovery may falter and lower oil prices cut the appeal
of the commodity as an alternative to synthetic products.  Futures shed as much as 0.9 percent after reaching 311.5
yen per kilogram ($3,685 a metric ton) on Sept. 22, the highest
level since April 28. The price climbed for the second straight
week, advancing 4.3 percent, the best performance since May 28.  Asian  stocks  fell, paring the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s
fourth straight weekly gain, after an increase in U.S. jobless
claims damped the outlook for global growth. Oil declined on
concern that U.S. fuel demand may decelerate.  “Weak economic data from the U.S. and Europe curbed
investor appetite for riskier assets, leading to sales of the
raw material,”  Hisaaki Tasaka , an analyst at Tokyo-based broker
ACE Koeki Co., said today by phone.  February-delivery rubber settled at 308.9 yen per kilogram
on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. The September contract,
expiring today, climbed 1 percent to settle at 295.8 yen. The
market was closed yesterday and Sept. 20 for holidays.  Asian stocks declined after the U.S. Labor Department
reported claims unexpectedly increased by 12,000 to 465,000 in
the week ended Sept. 18, as the unemployment rate remains near a
26-year high. Growth in Europe’s services and manufacturing
industries weakened more than economists forecast in September,
adding to signs the recovery is losing steam.  Oil for November delivery lost as much as 0.7 percent to
$74.66 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange before
trading at $75.02 at 4:33 p.m. in Tokyo.  China, India  “The slowdown in demand growth from China and India
pressured the rubber market,”  Chaiwat Muenmee , an analyst at
Bangkok-based commodity broker DS Futures Co. “But low supply
in top producing countries limits the downside,” he added.  Consumption of natural rubber in China, including the
premium grade of compound rubber, is expected to increase 4.3
percent in the third quarter, compared with growth of 28 percent
in the first quarter, the Association of Natural Rubber
Producing Countries said in the monthly report.  Demand growth in India will probably slow to 1 percent in
the July-to-September period, from 12.2 percent in the first
quarter, the group said.  Losses in rubber futures were limited as wet weather
constrained supply in Thailand, the world’s largest producer and
exporter, Tasaka said.  Thai Rubber Gains  The cash price in Thailand advanced for a fifth day,
climbing 0.2 percent to 109.35 baht ($3.55) per kilogram as
persistent rain limits supply, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand. The rain will probably continue across
the country in the second half of September, the Thai weather
office said on its website.  Drought earlier this year followed by heavy rain has
hampered tree-tapping across plantations in Asia, according to
Pongsak Kerdvongbundit, managing director of Phuket, Thailand-
based Von Bundit Co.  Natural-rubber consumption will outpace supply by 127,000
tons next year, the widest production deficit since 2007,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Stockpiles will drop 12
percent to 67 days of demand in 2011, the lowest level in at
least 11 years, the bank estimated in a report this month.  The Shanghai rubber market is closed today for a holiday.
The March-delivery contract last traded at 26,805 yuan ($4,004)
a ton on Sept. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  