-- Ruhl’s ‘Orlando’ Morphs From He to She; Busch’s ‘Divine’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/ruhl-s-orlando-morphs-from-he-to-she-busch-is-divine-jeremy-gerard.html
Sarah Ruhl  is a bender of rules and
genders (“In the Next Room or The Vibrator Play”) and she
brings charm and humor to the story of “Orlando” now at the
 Classic Stage Company  in Manhattan.  At the end of the 17th century, the beautiful youth Orlando
decides never to grow old. He becomes, briefly, the consort of
Elizabeth I, later the lover of a Russian princess and, later
still, an envoy to Constantinople. There he falls asleep and
wakes up a woman, or, more precisely, Orlando in a woman’s body,
surviving into the 20th century.  Clear your head of all but these most basic components of
 Virginia Woolf’s  1928 novel, “Orlando: A Biography” and the
1992 film starring  Tilda Swinton .  It’s not hard to do: The tiny CSC theater, surrounded on
three sides by the audience, consists almost exclusively of a
slightly raised square platform covered luxuriantly with grass.
High above it, tilted toward the audience, hangs a massive gilt-
framed mirror. In a corner sits a tiny model of a palace. A few
gold high-back chair rest against the theater’s black rear wall.  That’s about it, yet these few elements (the designer is
the gifted  Allen Moyer ) cohere in an elegant setting.  “The age was Elizabethan,” a chorus comprising three men
announces at the outset. “Their morals were not ours. Nor their
poets, nor their climate, nor their vegetables even.”  We meet the hero, played by the incandescent Francesca
Faridany toying with an oversize sword, yearning to prove his
manhood (“I do so long to chop off the head of an infidel, but
I am, as yet, only sixteen.”)  No Travelogue  Ruhl and her director, Rebecca Taichman, resist turning
“Orlando” into a travelogue. Instead they dwell on Woolf’s
descriptive passages of Orlando’s internal growth while
experiencing extraordinary external change. There is very little
dialogue. The tale is narrated by the actors in or out of
character, story-theater style.  Annika Boras is particularly fine flaunting the charms of
the Russian princess. Also deserving of mention are Christopher
Akerlind, whose lighting makes the combined elements of sets,
costumes and actors glow as if from within; Anita Yavich, whose
mostly white and gold-trimmed costumes are elegant and the
sensuous music and sound design by Christian Frederickson and
Ryan Rumery.  Through Oct. 17 at 136 E. 13th St. Information: +1-212-352-
3101;  http://www.classicstage.org  Rating: ***  ‘The Divine Nun’  Charles Busch, a take-no-prisoners parodist, focuses his
multiple comic gifts on beloved nuns and nun-wannabes in his
latest, very funny travesty, “The Divine Sister.” He plays
Mother Superior at the Convent of St. Veronica, in Pittsburgh,
in the late 1960s:  “We are living in a time of great social change,” M.S.
tells her flock. “We must do everything in our power to stop
it.”  Mother Superior can sing like her counterpart in “The
Sound of Music” and, before taking her vows was a crack
newspaper reporter. Her foil is dour Sister Acacius (Julie
Halston), the convent’s wrestling coach, with an assist from a
blue nun imported from Chermany and played by the dizzyingly
funny Alison Fraser.  The Maria in all this is Agnes, a novitiate played wide-
eyed by Amy Rutberg, who sees “the holy face of St. Clare” in
a laundry stain. Adroitly staged by Carl Andress with much
tipping of the wimples at “His Girl Friday,” “The Trouble
With Angels” and others too countless to mention, it’s all fine
fun.  At the Soho Playhouse, 15 Vandam St. Information: +1-212-
691-1555;  http://www.sohoplayhouse.com  Rating: ***  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 