-- Nations Ask U.S. Court to Join Mexico to Oppose Arizona Law
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-10-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/ruling-blocking-arizona-immigration-law-should-stand-u-s-tells-court.html
Nine Latin American countries
including Brazil and Argentina asked a U.S. judge to join Mexico
in its support of a court ruling blocking key provisions of an
Arizona law requiring police to determine the immigration status
of people stopped for questioning.  Lawyers for Mexico told the U.S. Court of Appeals in San
Francisco in a court filing yesterday that the law interferes
with its relations with the U.S. and encourages “an imminent
threat of state-sanctioned bias or discrimination.”  The nine Latin American countries asked for permission to
join Mexico’s request that the appeals court uphold a lower
court’s ruling that Arizona can’t require police to try to
determine whether someone is legally in the U.S. and then detain
that person if they suspect he isn’t. The other seven countries
making the request in a filing yesterday were Bolivia, Costa
Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Paraguay and Peru.  “Mexico seeks to ensure that its citizens present in the
U.S. are accorded the human and civil rights granted under the
U.S. Constitution,” Mexico said in its filing.  For the almost 20 million Mexican workers, tourists and
students “recently” admitted to the U.S. and those who were
already in the country, the Arizona law “adversely impacts
U.S.-Mexico bilateral relations, Mexican citizens and other
people of Latin-American descent present in Arizona,” according
to the filing.  “We are aware of the filing,” Paul Senseman, a spokesman
for Arizona Governor  Janice Brewer , said in an e-mail. He said
he expected it to take at least a week for the state to file its
response.  Judge’s Ruling  U.S. District Judge  Susan Bolton  in Phoenix, in her July 28
decision, also barred enforcement of provisions of the Arizona
law making it a crime for illegal immigrants to solicit or
perform work. Her ruling also blocked police officers from
warrantless arrests of people they think might be illegal
immigrants.  Lawyers for Arizona appealed Bolton’s ruling, arguing the
federal government has failed to demonstrate its right to stop
the state from enforcing the statute. Oral arguments in the
appeal are scheduled for the first week of November.  The case is United States of America v. State of Arizona,
10-16645, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco). The lower-court case is United States of America v.
State of Arizona, 2:10cv1413, U.S. District Court, District of
Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 