-- Poland, Russia to Renew Gas Supply Talks in 10 Days
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o
-- 2010-09-24T15:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/russians-poles-to-resume-gas-talks-in-7-10-days-eu-negotiator-lowe-says.html
Poland and Russia will hold the
next round of talks on a new gas supply contract in 7 to 10 days
as they seek to address European Union concerns about pricing,
pipeline management and fuel re-exports.  Both countries want to increase supplies and are showing a
strong commitment,  Philip Lowe , an EU official participating in
the negotiations, said today in an interview in Moscow. Today’s
talks in Moscow lasted 4 1/2 hours, he said.  “There is sufficient degree of urgency among all those
concerned to make it happen,” Lowe said. “There is a
recognition of the need to make sure these arrangements make
sense legally and make sense commercially.”  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA , Poland’s
dominant gas company, said Sept. 20 it may not have adequate
supplies starting next month if the two governments don’t reach
a new agreement, allowing it to sign a final contract with  OAO
Gazprom , Russia’s export monopoly.  Poland’s Economy Ministry said the countries moved
“significantly closer” to an agreement and the EU accepted the
conclusions of the meeting. Final talks will be held early next
month, the ministry said in an e-mail from Warsaw.  Competitive Gas Markets  Poland, which gets about two-thirds of its gas from Russia,
reached a preliminary agreement with Gazprom in January. The
contract wasn’t signed after the European Commission said it was
assessing whether the deal complies with EU law.  “We in the EU want the conditions to be in line with the
new legislation on creating and opening competitive markets of
gas,” Lowe said. The EU, which is acting as a legal adviser
between the two countries, is examining tariffs, pipeline
management and re-export of gas, he said.  The EU is seeking a balance between new regulations
requiring independent management of pipelines and the existing
long-term contracts, Lowe said.  “There is very hard work going on and these issues have
been extensively discussed,” Lowe said.  The new deal will raise annual deliveries of natural gas to
Poland to as much as 10.2 billion cubic meters from about 7.4
billion, and extends the previous contract by 15 years to 2037.  The increase will cover a supply gap after the country
stopped receiving gas from an intermediary last year and will
help secure supply from the  Yamal pipeline  running from Russia
to Germany.  Raising Gas Supplies  Poland has been seeking to raise gas supplies since early
last year, when trader RosUkrEnergo AG, 50 percent-owned by
Gazprom, halted deliveries following a dispute between Russia
and Ukraine. RosUkrEnergo was supposed to deliver 2.3 billion
cubic meters of gas to Poland in 2009 under a contract that ran
out on Dec. 31.  Under the new agreement, Gazprom will keep using Yamal
through 2045. Gazprom and PGNiG manage the Polish section of the
Yamal pipeline through their EuRoPolGaz SA joint venture.  Poland may seek to increase delivery volumes without
extending the contract’s duration from 2022, as was earlier
planned, Polish Economy Minister  Waldemar Pawlak  said in Warsaw
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net 
 Nathaniel Espino  in Warsaw 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  