-- RWE Innogy, SSE to Begin Supplying Power From U.K. North Sea Wind Farm
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-09-24T11:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/rwe-innogy-sse-to-begin-supplying-power-from-u-k-north-sea-wind-farm.html
RWE Innogy GmbH  and partner
 Scottish & Southern Electricity Plc  will begin producing power
next month from the biggest U.K. wind farm under construction,
the 504-megawatt Greater Gabbard project in the North Sea.  “The foundations are all there,” RWE Innogy Chief
Operating Officer Paul Coffey said in an interview at the
company’s Little Cheyne Court wind farm southeast of London.
“We’ll be exporting power onto the grid in one month’s time.”  Britain, facing dwindling North Sea fuel output and aging
nuclear resources, plans to boost power generation while curbing
emissions by building turbines far off land where winds are
strongest. The country’s capacity to generate electricity from
the wind passed  5,000 megawatts  yesterday, enough for 2.7
million homes, as Vattenfall AB opened a 300-megawatt farm, the
world’s biggest, off the southeast of England.  “The U.K. is going to be the fastest-growing market for
renewable energy anywhere for the next couple of years,”
Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change  Chris Huhne 
said in a speech yesterday. “We will urge the wind industry to
install 10 times more capacity by 2020.”  Greater Gabbard, the largest of four offshore projects
under construction in the U.K., has 30 turbines in place out of
a total 140 and will be fully operational by 2012, Coffey said.
RWE Innogy is also pursuing plans to build a 576-megawatt farm
off the coast of Wales, a 295-megawatt farm northwest of
Germany, as well as seven other offshore wind projects.  Costs Come Down  The cost of building offshore wind farms will come down as
manufacturers industrialize production, develop designs using
less steel and streamline the construction process, Coffey said.
Offshore turbines cost about 3 million euros ($4 million) a
megawatt to install, double the cost of an onshore turbine.  “It will be an evolving journey to drive that process
over the next 10 years,” he said, adding that the U.K. can
meet renewable energy targets with an effective market and
regulatory framework, including continuation of the renewable
obligation certificate system. Other risks slowing construction
include planning delays and the building of grid connections.  Europe had nearly 2,400 megawatts of installed offshore
wind power capacity at the end of June and 16 farms totaling
nearly 4,000 megawatts under construction, according to
statistics from the European Wind Energy Association website.
Wind power now accounts for 4 percent of U.K. electricity
consumption.  A design flaw discovered earlier this year by Royal Dutch
Shell Plc,  Centrica Plc  and Dong Energy A/S causing turbines to
sink into their foundations is “no immediate risk,” Coffey
said. While a review is being carried out, “I don’t sit around
worrying about the integrity of these structures,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 