-- S. Africa’s ANC Wants More State Control of Mining
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-09-24T10:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/s-africa-s-anc-wants-more-state-control-of-mining-update1-.html
South Africa’s ruling African
National Congress endorsed greater state control of “strategic
sectors” such as mining, energy and finance and said it will
decide on how to do this within two years.  A state mining company would encourage the industry to
create more jobs and distribute its wealth more evenly, while a
state bank will widen access to loans, a statement adopted by
the ANC’s five-day policy conference in Durban said. ANC leaders
will hammer out details of the exact proposals before putting
them to a vote at a party conference in 2012.  “With the kind of unemployment we have it is quite
critical for us to do something,”  Enoch Godongwana , chairman of
the ANC’s Economic Transformation Committee, told reporters in
the eastern port city today. “So the pressure for us as
government is to put every citizen into productive employment.”  One in four South Africans remain unemployed, 16 years
after the end of apartheid, prompting labor unions to call for a
larger role for the state in the economy. The country is the
world’s biggest producer of platinum and chrome, and the third-
biggest gold producer. Melbourne, Australia-based  BHP Billiton 
Ltd. and London-based  Rio Tinto Group  and  Anglo American Plc  are
among companies with a stake in South Africa’s mineral
resources, which Citigroup Inc. has valued at $2.5 trillion.  Mining generates 30 percent of export revenue in Africa’s
largest economy, 18 percent of its corporate taxes and 500,000
direct jobs, according to the Mines Ministry.  Mineral Processing  South Africa should process 50 percent of its minerals
locally within the next 20 years, up from the current 10
percent,  Trevor Manuel , head of the country’s National Planning
Commission, told a press conference today.  While the ANC has previously proposed more state control of
the mining industry, this time may be different as frustration
grows at economic policies that have failed to slash
unemployment or improve income inequality, said  Susan Booysen , a
political analyst at the University of Witwatersrand.  “There is a different kind of pressure on them this time
around to find new policies, better policies,” Booysen said in
an interview in Durban today. “Policies have not been
delivering optimally. There is a young generation out there
which is angry and impatient and is in a hapless and hopeless
situation.”  Manuel  The ANC stopped short of endorsing the nationalization of
the mining industry.  “If every bit of tax you collect is going to buy out mine
holders and not deliver health care though national health
insurance, what are the implications of that?” Manuel said.  A potential government takeover of assets has worried
investors in South Africa’s mines.  “I don’t think the issue will go away and I think it will
be a challenge for both the state and the private sector to
address those concerns and to show it is not the path,”  Dennis Dykes , chief economist of Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Ltd. , South
Africa’s fourth-largest bank, said in a Sept. 21 interview. “We
would have a massive withdrawal of capital and a significant
loss of business confidence and it will benefit no one in the
end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Durban at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Durban at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 