-- S&P 500 Index Will Advance 6.6% by End of This Year, BlackRock's Doll Says
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-09-24T03:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/s-p-500-index-will-advance-6-6-by-end-of-this-year-blackrock-s-doll-says.html
The S&P 500 should gain an
additional 6.6 percent this year to begin a decade of 8 percent
annual returns as concerns of a return to recession prove
unfounded, BlackRock Inc. Vice Chairman  Robert Doll  said today.  “There’s opportunity for that as double-dip fears continue
to recede, and we get a little more clarity to the significant
political uncertainties that exist in the U.S.,” said Doll,
whose company oversees $3.4 trillion and is the world’s largest
asset manager.  The risk of a new recession has fallen to as little as 10
percent, down from 20 percent at the beginning of the month,
Doll said before an address to the Toronto CFA Society Annual
Forecast Dinner. The stock market has priced in concerns the U.S.
economy will slide back into recession, which is at odds with
what is happening in the real economy, he said in the address.  U.S. economic data has been “less bad” than expected,
Doll said. He cited today’s reports on existing-home sales and
the U.S. Conference Board’s index of leading economic indicators,
both of which exceeded most economists’ forecasts.  As in previous recoveries, stimulus policies have been
followed by improving demand, he said. Job growth should be next
to follow.  “The economic recovery is becoming self-sustaining,” Doll
said. “This recovery is behaving like most of them do. When I
talk to corporate CEOs or CFOs, they’re not bullish, but I get a
very different picture.”  U.S. consumers have not retreated into a long period of
deleveraging as some feared, Doll said.  Foreign Revenue  “The U.S. consumer got tired of that real fast, came
running out and went straight to the mall,” he said.  Even if the recovery remains slow, stock-market returns
should exceed economic growth, Doll said. Forty percent of S&P
500 companies’ revenue comes from outside of the U.S. Only 15
percent of their earnings are derived from U.S. consumers’
discretionary spending, he said.  U.S. companies are well-positioned to increase profits in a
slow-growth environment due to cost reductions they made during
the downturn, Doll said.  “Given how scared corporations got and how much they cut
costs, that has created an immense opportunity for earnings,”
he said.  The S&P 500 has surged  7.2 percent  this month after falling
5.9 percent in the first eight months of the year.  S&P 500 earnings  are likely to increase 8.4 percent next
year, he said.  U.S. Politics  The political situation in Washington is a potential
setback, Doll said. Before the speech, he estimated that failure
to extend tax cuts set to expire at the end of the year would
reduce economic growth by more than 1 percentage point.  The election of a new Congress that likely will be less
enthusiastic about regulation would be positive for U.S.
business, he said.  During the decade beginning 2010, the S&P 500 should
increase 6.2 percent a year, returning 8.1 percent a year with
dividends, Doll said, with healthcare, technology and
alternative-energy stocks performing best. Emerging markets
should exceed those returns, while demographic pressures will
hamper the European and Japanese markets, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  