-- Sallie Mae Securities Suit May Proceed on Some Claims, U.S. Judge Rules
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-09-24T23:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/sallie-mae-securities-suit-may-proceed-on-some-claims-u-s-judge-rules.html
A lawsuit alleging student-loan
maker  SLM Corp.  hid its lack of reserves and made misleading
statements about earnings may proceed, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  William Pauley  in Manhattan said the
investor plaintiffs presented enough evidence to continue their
case against Reston, Virginia-based SLM, known as Sallie Mae,
and its executives. The 2008 suit claims the lender was
misleading about its underwriting guidelines, loan forbearance,
and financial performance in a bid to inflate its stock price.  The lead plaintiff is SLM Venture, a joint venture
established by families to invest in Sallie Mae stock. The suit
seeks class-action status for investors who relied on statements
made by the company from January through November 2007 to buy
common stock. Sallie Mae  dropped  57 percent during the period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pauley dismissed a related suit brought by plaintiffs who
sought to represent participants in SLM’s employee savings and
retirement plans, which invested in SLM stock. The plaintiffs,
Jitandra Patel and Alex Cordero, claimed SLM breached its
fiduciary duty by masking the “precariousness” of its loan
portfolio and hid losses from investors.  “Patel and Cordero have neither participated in nor been
beneficiaries of the retirement plan,” said Pauley.  He also dismissed related claims filed against the
company’s former president and chief executive officer, C.E.
Andrews saying the plaintiff “failed to adequately allege
motive and opportunity.”  Edward Ciolko , a lawyer who represents Cordero and Patel,
didn’t immediately return a voicemail message seeking comment
left at his office after business hours. Jamie Kohen, a lawyer
for SLM, also didn’t return a voicemail message left at her
office after business hours.  The cases are In re SLM Securities Corporation Securities
Litigation, 08-CV-1029, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 