-- Save Americans by Sticking It to Them: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-09-24T20:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/saving-americans-requires-sticking-it-to-them-jonathan-weil.html
(Corrects figure in 12th paragraph from Congressional
Oversight Panel for number of Ally directors appointed by
Treasury Department, in column published Sept. 23.)  The banks were saved by the
American people. Now who will save the people from the banks?  Last week, in a rare and possibly fleeting victory for the
little guy,  Ally Financial Inc. ’s mortgage-servicing unit
temporarily halted evictions tied to foreclosures in 23 states.
This came after some attorneys for homeowners caught the company
saying things that weren’t true in its court filings.  There’s no sense complaining to the federal government
about Ally’s conduct, though. That’s because the Treasury
Department is the company’s majority shareholder, after spending
$17.2 billion of bailout money on Ally under the  Troubled Asset
Relief Program .  While the Treasury’s policy is to stay out of the company’s
day-to-day affairs, the mess at Ally offers a fine example of
why TARP is so politically unpopular.  In Florida and many other states, the law requires lenders
and mortgage-servicing companies to jump through numerous hoops
before they’re allowed to foreclose on a person’s home. These
include having employees provide local courts with sworn,
notarized statements about customers’ loans that they personally
know to be true. These pesky requirements proved too much for
Ally to follow.  10,000 Affidavits  So acknowledged a 41-year-old middle manager at Ally’s GMAC
Mortgage unit, Jeffrey Stephan, during a December 2009
deposition, in which he estimated that he signed “a round
number of 10,000” affidavits and other foreclosure documents a
month. Stephan, a team leader overseeing 13 people in the
company’s foreclosure department, said he relied on outside law
firms to verify the records’ accuracy, rather than checking the
facts himself. Nor was a notary present when he signed the
affidavits, which were used in the process of repossessing homes
and evicting residents.  Ally, the former General Motors unit that used to be called
GMAC Inc., says such problems were merely technical defects,
albeit unfortunate and regrettable ones. There will be “no
interruption in new foreclosures,” the company said in a Sept.
20 press release, as if this were supposed to provide
reassurance. Meanwhile, some Florida law firms representing the
company have withdrawn affidavits signed by Stephan. The Florida
attorney general’s office says it’s investigating.  Back in December 2009, the head of the TARP program,
 Herbert Allison , told Congress the government had no intention
of getting involved in the daily management of the companies it
bailed out.  Protecting Taxpayers  “Our responsibility is to protect the taxpayers’
investment,”  said  Allison, the assistant Treasury secretary for
financial stability. “Government involvement in the day-to-day
management of a company might actually reduce the value of these
investments, impede the ability of the companies to return fully
to being privately owned, and frustrate attainment of our
broader economic policy goals.”  With the benefit of hindsight and a little rephrasing, the
government’s policy is clearer now: We have to let these bailed-
out banks keep screwing the American people, in order to keep
the American people from getting screwed on their investments in
these bailed-out banks.  If this helps preserve the value of Cerberus Capital
Management’s 14.9 percent stake in Ally, oh well. Hold your
nose, we’re told, because it’s for the greater good. And never
mind that this private-equity firm’s chairman happens to be a
former Treasury secretary,  John Snow . Just optics, you know.  No Difference  It’s not as though the government is asserting its full
rights as a 56.3 percent shareholder of Ally, either. Under the
terms of Ally’s bailout, the Treasury received the right to name
four directors to Ally’s nine-member board. So far, Treasury has
appointed three.  It makes no difference how many loan-modification programs
the government creates, or what new consumer-protection agency
 Elizabeth Warren  gets hired to lead. As long as the Treasury is
supporting a company such as Ally, Americans will be right to
conclude the government is two-faced and working against their
own best interests.  The problem of mortgage companies filing false court
documents stretches beyond Ally. In August, for instance, a
Florida circuit court judge blocked a Jacksonville foreclosure
by Washington Mutual and JPMorgan Chase & Co., which had
purchased the failed lender’s assets. The judge, Jean Johnson,
wrote that WaMu and its law firm “committed fraud on this
court.” As Bloomberg News reported on Sept. 21, JPMorgan had
presented a document that showed WaMu had bought the mortgage,
when actually it was still owned by Fannie Mae.  Bailout Culture  While JPMorgan has repaid its TARP money, Ally hasn’t.
Given the government’s investments, it would be hard to fault
anyone for thinking the Treasury condones this sort of behavior.  This is what infuriates so many Americans about the bailout
culture. When banks break the rules, consumers are supposed to
be able to turn to the government for help. When Ally breaks the
rules, though, it’s the Treasury’s own company that’s doing it.  Our government isn’t supposed to prey on its own people in
the name of protecting our investments. It never should have
gotten in this business in the first place.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  