-- SEC Denies China's Dagong Global Credit U.S. Official Debt-Rating Status
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-09-24T20:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/sec-denies-china-s-dagong-global-credit-u-s-official-debt-rating-status.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission denied the application of  Dagong Global Credit Rating
Co. , one of China’s five official ratings companies, to become a
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization in the
U.S.  The SEC turned down the firm’s December request in a Sept.
22 order in part because the agency  said it couldn’t reliably
ensure that the Beijing company would comply with U.S. reporting
rules. In correspondence this year with the SEC, Dagong said
record requests would have to be approved by the China
Securities Regulatory Commission. Dagong has no U.S. office, the
SEC said.  “On the record before us, it appears that Dagong would not
control what information would be produced to commission
staff,” the SEC said in its denial. “As an initial matter, we
are unable to conclude that Dagong can comply with the
recordkeeping, production, and inspection requirements of the
Exchange Act.”  The rejection was reported earlier today by the Wall Street
Journal.  While U.S. regulatory rules such as capital requirements
mandate the use of NRSRO debt ratings from firms such as Moody’s
Investors Service, making the distinction important, the Dodd-
Frank Act passed in July mandates regulators to remove all
references to credit ratings of securities from their rules.  Dagong gave China’s government a higher debt rating than
the U.S., U.K. or Japan in a report covering 50 nations it
published in July.  Two other big ratings companies in China are tie-ups with
international partners. China Chengxin International Credit
Rating Co. is a joint venture with Moody’s, and China Lianhe
Credit Rating is a joint venture partner with Fitch Ratings Ltd.
Foreign ratings firms aren’t allowed to directly rate Chinese
domestic currency bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 