-- Singapore's Industrial Output Growth Unexpectedly Cools to Nine-Month Low
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   P h a n g   a n d   J a y   W a n g
-- 2010-09-24T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/singapore-s-industrial-output-growth-unexpectedly-cools-to-nine-month-low.html
Singapore’s  industrial production 
unexpectedly rose at the slowest pace in nine months, heralding
slower economic growth after a record expansion in the first
half of the year.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about a quarter of the
economy, climbed 8.1 percent in August from a year earlier,
after a 9.9 percent gain in July, the  Economic Development Board 
said in a statement today. The median estimate of 10 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News was for an 11.7 percent gain.  Overseas demand for goods by Asian manufacturers such as
Singapore-based  Hi-P International Ltd ., whose customers include
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion Ltd., may cool as the global
recovery slows. The island’s economy, which expanded an
unprecedented 17.9 percent in the first half of 2010, will
moderate in the coming months, Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong 
said in August.  “Singapore’s reliance on global demand remains,” said
 Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Capital Economics (Asia) Pte in
Singapore. “A bumpy recovery in the global economy could dampen
strong upswings in manufacturing activity from here.”  The country’s  non-oil domestic exports  climbed 31.2 percent
from a year earlier last month, after a revised 18.3 percent
gain in July, a report showed Sept. 17. Still, manufacturing
contracted for the first time in 16 months in August, according
to the Singapore Institute of Purchasing & Materials
Management’s purchasing managers’ index.  Growth in Europe’s services and manufacturing industries
weakened more than economists forecast in September, adding to
evidence the recovery in the region is losing steam, a report
showed yesterday. Economic expansion in the U.S. and China has
also slowed.  Industrial production  fell a seasonally adjusted 6.3
percent in August from July, when it rose 1.5 percent from the
previous month, today’s report showed.  Electronics production rose 32.8 percent from a year
earlier after climbing 25.2 percent in July and 52.4 percent in
June. Pharmaceutical output dropped 30.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Phang  in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  