-- South Africa's Ruling ANC Party Says It Will Consider Nationalizing Mines
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-09-24T15:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/south-africa-s-ruling-anc-party-says-it-will-consider-nationalizing-mines.html
South Africa’s ruling  African
National Congress  gave its leadership two years to study the
possible nationalization of mines and other key industries,
after its youth wing and labor union allies forced the issue
onto its policy agenda.  The ANC Youth League argued at a five-day party conference
in the eastern city of Durban that South Africa didn’t derive
enough benefit from its natural resources and called for the
state to take a controlling stake in mine ventures. Mining
generates 30 percent of export revenue in Africa’s largest
 economy , 18 percent of its corporate taxes and 500,000 direct
jobs, according to the Mines Ministry.  Nationalization “has become an issue to be processed by
the whole organization, and is no longer just a Youth League
issue,” President  Jacob Zuma , who is also the ANC leader, said
in his closing address to the conference. “Let me emphasize
that there is no policy shift.”  The ANC’s National Executive Committee will examine the
nationalization issue and make recommendations for the party’s
next national conference in 2012.  “The NEC must be broad in its outlook and look at a number
of other issues that will take forward our growth path and
economic recovery,” Zuma said. “It will also look at existing
solutions, for example the fact that mineral resources already
reside with the state.”  Top Platinum Producer  South Africa is the world’s top producer of platinum and
chrome, and the third-biggest gold producer. Melbourne,
Australia-based  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and London-based  Rio Tinto
Group  and  Anglo American Plc  are among companies with a stake in
South Africa’s mineral resources, which Citigroup Inc. has
valued at $2.5 trillion.  The government has no intention of seizing mines without
compensation,  Trevor Manuel , head of the National Planning
Commission, told a press conference today.  “If every bit of tax you collect is going to buy out mine
holders and not deliver health care through national health
insurance, what are the implications of that?” he said.  South Africa’s stock market was closed today for a public
holiday. The rand traded at 7.0169 per dollar at 3:42 p.m. in
Johannesburg, from 7.0361 late yesterday.  “Investors are still welcome to come to South Africa,”
 Jeff Radebe , the ANC’s head of policy told reporters today. “We
continue to preach that gospel.”  ‘Nationalization Antiquated’  “Nationalization is an antiquated and universally
discredited political practice that will have disastrous
consequences for the national economy,” the Chamber of Mines of
South Africa said today in an e-mailed statement. “We are very
pleased with the mature and pragmatic approach taken by the ANC
on this important topic.”  The ANC conference backed the establishment of a state
mining company to encourage the industry to create more jobs and
distribute its wealth more evenly and a state bank to widen
access to loans. It also decided that South Africa should
process 50 percent of its minerals locally within the next 20
years, up from the current 10 percent.  One in four South Africans remain unemployed 16 years after
the end of all-white rule, prompting labor unions to call for a
larger role for the state in the economy. The unions have also
called for the re-nationalization of  Sasol Ltd. , the world’s
biggest producer of motor fuels from coal, and ArcelorMittal
South Africa Ltd., Africa’s biggest steelmaker.  Unemployment  “With the kind of unemployment we have it is quite
critical for us to do something,”  Enoch Godongwana , chairman of
the ANC’s Economic Transformation Committee, told reporters.
“So the pressure for us as government is to put every citizen
into productive employment.”  While the ANC has previously proposed more state control of
the mining industry, public frustration is growing with economic
policies that have failed to slash unemployment or reduce income
inequality, said  Susan Booysen , a political analyst at the
University of Witwatersrand.  “There is a different kind of pressure on them this time
around to find new policies, better policies,” Booysen said
today in an interview in Durban. “There is a young generation
out there which is angry and impatient and is in a hapless and
hopeless situation.”  A potential government takeover of assets has worried
investors in South Africa’s mines.  “I don’t think the issue will go away and I think it will
be a challenge for both the state and the private sector to
address those concerns and to show it is not the path,”  Dennis Dykes , chief economist of Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Ltd. , South
Africa’s fourth-largest bank, said in a Sept. 21 interview.  “We would have a massive withdrawal of capital and a
significant loss of business confidence and it will benefit no
one in the end,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Durban at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Durban at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 