-- Stocks in India May Be Headed for `Correction,' Mirae Asset's Chadha Says
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2010-09-24T05:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/stocks-in-india-may-be-headed-for-correction-mirae-asset-s-chadha-says.html
Indian stocks  may retreat after
surging 11 percent this month, the most among the world’s 10
biggest markets, according to Mirae Asset Global Investment.  A so-called correction “may be possible,”  Rahul Chadha ,
head of India equities at Mirae Asset, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Hong Kong today. “But the long-term
story remains intact,” he said. “It’s a good structural story
with strong domestic consumption and the economy remains in a
sweet spot.”  State-owned banks and some carmakers and airlines and other
consumer-related shares remain attractive, Chadha said. Mirae
has increased “exposure to telecom because we clearly believe
that competition in that space has bottomed out,” he said.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index , or  Sensex , has
climbed 24 percent from its May 25 low, helping it breach 20,000
this week for the first time since January 2008. Foreign fund
inflows to India’s equities have increased 64 percent this year,
making the benchmark index the most expensive in Asia and among
the BRIC markets that also include Brazil, Russia and China.  Billionaire investor  Rakesh Jhunjhunwala  said yesterday he
is “cautious” as gains in India’s benchmark stock index may
have been excessive this month.  “At the moment, I surely see a probability of a market
which is going to go up,” Jhunjhunwala said in a Bloomberg UTV
interview yesterday. “But since the rise has been very rapid in
the last 15 to 20 days, we also need to be cautious.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in Hong Kong at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  