-- Oliver Stone's `Wall Street' Sequel Draws Mixed Reviews: A Selection
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2010-09-24T16:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/stone-s-wall-street-draws-mixed-reviews-as-gekko-goes-soft-a-selection.html
Oliver Stone ’s “Wall Street: Money
Never Sleeps,” the sequel to his 1987 film about the financial
world, opened today. Here’s a selection of excerpts.  Joe Morgenstern , The Wall Street Journal:  Michael Douglas ’s performance in the sequel measures up to
Gekko’s rep, but the rest of the movie is pumped up to the
bursting point with gasbag caricatures, overblown sermons and a
semicoherent swirl of events surrounding the economy’s recent
meltdown. The story certainly holds your attention, but it’s a
dramatic bubble about a financial bubble.  ... There’s a nice irony in the veteran conniver coming on,
during public appearances, as a cross between Cassandra and a
common scold -- he rails against speculation as the mother of
all evils, and denounces leveraged debt.  But his preachments sound awfully familiar at this
juncture, and they’re played against a crisis that unfolds much
too slowly to capture the frenzy of the September 2008 meltdown.
A.O. Scott, New York Times:  Evoking most directly those clammy, vertiginous weeks in
the late summer and early fall of 2008, when the much-prophesied
Crisis of Capitalism appeared to be at hand, “Wall Street:
Money Never Sleeps” displays a grandiose ambition appropriate
to its subject. In other words, Mr. Stone, never much for
modesty, subtlety or the careful calculation of risk, has
written a much bigger check than he could ever hope to cash.  Ty Burr, Boston Globe:  “Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps” finds Oliver Stone in
an ebullient, I-told-you-so mood... The film’s lack of focus is
almost criminal, but Schadenfreude energizes Stone. Everyone
here is dancing on a bubble, and no one has the guts to admit
the bubble is about to pop.  Kyle Smith, New York Post:  I liked Gordon Gekko better before he turned into  Paul Krugman , but in “Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps” he is still
at his core a seductive high priest of the money-changers’
temples. Welcome back, you sly bastard.  The sequel to 1987’s “Wall Street” essentially makes no
sense on either the micro or macro level, from clanking one-
liners all the way up to the Meaning of Finance. But director
Oliver Stone, perhaps realizing his own credit line with the
studios has run thin in the two decades since he’s had a hit, is
at least wise enough to give us as much eye candy as castor oil.  Carrie Rickey , Philadelphia Inquirer:  The film whipsaws between hyperbolic character study and
preachy account of the recent financial meltdown. The two story
lines are not well-integrated. Rather than seem to explain the
financial meltdown of two years ago, “Money Never Sleeps” uses
the 2008 banking crisis as decor.  Mostly, I just sat back and enjoyed the actors. No one is
better than Douglas at slipping into the skin of a human snake.
As Douglas slithers, (Shia) LaBeouf zags, unexpectedly good at
playing the youth caught between social idealism and corporate
pragmatism.  Ann Hornaday, Washington Post:  In its own giddy, glib way, “Money Never Sleeps” evinces
just as strong a hold on its times, when terms like “subprime”
and “credit default swaps” -- which would have been virtually
meaningless two decades ago -- are the lingua franca of the
financial realm. The crimes that Gekko went to jail for in
Oliver Stone’s original film now seem like child’s play compared
with the shady deals his spiritual heirs have been confecting
during his years in prison.  ... If some of his references hit too squarely on the nose
-- the shot of a child’s soap bubble standing in for the
metaphoric financial version, for example, or the vaguely
fascist corporate insignia of a malign CEO played by Josh Brolin
-- Stone has a knack for pacing, detail and atmosphere that
manages to feel authentic and fancifully allegorical at the same
time.  Kenneth Turan, Los Angeles Times:  Greed may be good, as Gordon Gekko insisted once upon a
time, but evil pays the bills, at least as far as “Wall Street:
Money Never Sleeps” is concerned. The best parts of this
unfocused, erratic, downright messy sequel are the moments when
the bad people take center stage.  So let’s hear it for Josh Brolin’s Bretton (don’t even
think of calling him Bret) James, an investment banker with “an
ego the size of Antarctica.” And some applause for the fearless
94-year-old Eli Wallach’s Julie Steinhardt, terrifying when he
makes eccentric bird noises and talks about the crash of ‘29 and
the end of the world. And we can’t forget Michael Douglas as
Gekko Redux, at least in those moments when the film allows him
to be as bad as he ought to be.  Todd Gilchrist, hollywoodnews.com:  “Wall Street” is less “Money Never Sleeps” and more
“Movie Never Ends.”  ... (T)he director, having long since lost the fire that
fueled his creativity, has created what can only be described as
a crass cash-in on a once compelling saga -- the sort of
attention-grabber that generates commerce but few real
conversations -- which is why “Wall Street: Money Never
Sleeps” is a missed opportunity at best.  Michael Phillips, Chicago Tribune:  I wish the film hadn’t turned Gekko into such a sweetie;
the script goes dangerously soft on its most valuable commodity.
But a valuable commodity, in this market, can never be
underestimated.  Tom Long, Detroit News:  “Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps” wants to remind us:
Greed is not good.  As timely as that message may be, it may also be somewhat
unnecessary as millions of Americans look to their wrecked
pension funds and underwater mortgages and shiver as
unemployment statistics remain unnervingly high. Pretty much
everybody knows it was greed that brought us to this messy state
... This sequel doesn’t so much amplify the first film’s message
as offer a grand “Toldja so.” And it’s hard to argue with.  Rick Groen, Toronto Globe and Mail:  Maybe money doesn’t sleep but, through 2 hours and 15
minutes of meandering and pontificating, I’m afraid you might.
If hubris, hypocrisy, untold billions and unpunished guilt are
the stuff of drama, then there’s a great film to be made about
the economy’s meltdown. Already, some very good documentaries
have excavated the tawdry facts. By contrast, this is just
tedious fiction.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 