-- Computer Worm May Be Targeting Iranian Nuclear Sites
-- B y   A r i k   H e s s e l d a h l
-- 2010-09-24T23:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/stuxnet-computer-worm-may-be-aimed-at-iran-nuclear-sites-researcher-says.html
A computer worm that has infected
industrial computers around the world may be part of a campaign
targeting nuclear installations in Iran, computer-security
researchers said.  The highest concentration of affected systems -- almost 60
percent -- is in that country, according to data from  Symantec
Corp. , the computer-security software maker. The worm’s
sophisticated programming and ability to hide itself suggest it
may have been built by a government-sponsored organization in a
country such as the U.S. or Israel, said  Frank Rieger ,
technology chief at GSMK, a maker of encrypted mobile phones.  He estimated that building the worm cost at least $3
million and required a team of as many as 10 skilled programmers
working about six months.  “All the details so far to me scream that this was created
by a nation-state,” Rieger said in a telephone interview.
Iran’s nuclear facilities may have been targets, said Rieger and
 Richard Falkenrath , principal at the Chertoff Group, a
Washington-based security advisory firm.  Iran, which has the world’s second-largest oil reserves, is
under United Nations sanctions because it has refused to curtail
uranium enrichment and the development of ballistic missiles
that might carry a weapon. The country started a 1,000-megawatt
nuclear-power reactor near the city of Bushehr in August.  ‘Hides in Windows’  “It is theoretically possible that the U.S. government did
this,” Falkenrath said during an interview today with Bloomberg
Television. “But in my judgment, that’s a very remote
possibility. It’s more likely that Israel did it.”  A message left at the Israeli embassy’s press office wasn’t
immediately returned. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security,
which is studying the worm, hasn’t identified its origins, a
spokeswoman said.  The worm initially infects computers running several
editions of  Microsoft Corp.’s  Windows, including older versions
such as Windows 2000, and recent ones such as Windows 7, using
one of four vulnerabilities known only to the worm’s creators,
said Liam O Murchu, manager of North American security-response
operations for Mountain View, California-based Symantec.  “It hides in Windows and then tries to spread itself to
other computers running Windows,” O Murchu said. An infected
computer shows no ill effects and the worm ensures that no
software crashes, which is unusual, he said.  Specific System  As it spreads, the worm searches for connections to a
device known as a programmable logic controller, which helps
link Windows computers and computerized industrial-control
systems, converting commands sent from the Windows machine into
a format the industrial machines can understand. The worm
targets industrial software made by Munich-based Siemens AG,
researchers said.  Once an industrial machine is infected, the worm lies
dormant until certain conditions in the machine are met, O
Murchu said. For example, when the temperature of a certain
component gets hot, the worm might prevent a cooling system from
functioning. What conditions the worm waits for are unclear, he
said.  ‘It was designed to go after a specific system set up in a
very specific way,” O Murchu said. “What we don’t yet know is
where such a system exists in the real world.”  Siemens’ Software Fix  Symantec estimated in July that 14,000 individual computers
connected to the Internet worldwide had shown signs of Stuxnet
infections. The highest concentration -- 59 percent -- were in
Iran; 18 percent were in Indonesia; 8 percent in India and less
than 2 percent in the U.S.  Siemens learned of the worm in July and issued software
within a week to detect and remove it, said  Alexander Machowetz ,
a company spokesman in Erlangen, Germany. The fix was downloaded
12,000 times, and 15 customers said they were affected.  No new cases of Stuxnet infections have been reported since
the end of August, and Siemens was not able to determine the
worm’s country of origin, Machowetz said.  The U.S. Department of Homeland Security has been running
the worm on test systems to monitor its patterns since July,
said  Amy Kudwa , a department spokeswoman.  ‘Preventing the Spread’  “The focus is one of mitigating and preventing the
spread,” she said. “It is the first malware we have seen that
specifically targets control systems.”  While the department hasn’t concentrated on tracking the
origins, “we cannot validate the claims of attribution,” Kudwa
said.  Microsoft teamed up with researchers at Symantec and at
Kasperksy Lab, a Moscow-based antivirus software firm, to create
a removal tool for Stuxnet, Jerry Bryant, group manager for the
Redmond, Washington-based company’s response communications,
said in a company blog post dated Sept. 13. Since then “the
threat has gone way down from the spike we saw in early
August,” Bryant wrote.  Symantec plans to publish more details from its analysis of
the worm at the Virus Bulletin International Conference in
Vancouver on Sept. 29.  There is historical precedent for cyber attacks by nation-
states, according to a 2004 book by a former U.S. Air Force
secretary.  Spies working for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency
inserted malicious software into computer-control systems for a
Soviet natural-gas pipeline in Siberia, Thomas C. Reed wrote in
“At The Abyss: An Insider’s History Of The Cold War.”  Ultimately the effort caused a massive explosion, said
Reed, who was Air Force Secretary in the 1970s and later advised
President  Ronald Reagan  on national security policy.  The Financial Times published a story on the worm
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arik Hesseldahl  in New York at 
 ahesseldahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 