-- Sumitomo Electric Develops Superconductive Cable With 50% More Efficiency
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   A d a m   L e
-- 2010-09-24T03:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/sumitomo-electric-develops-superconductive-cable-with-50-more-efficiency.html
Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. 
has developed wiring than can conduct about 50 percent more
current than existing superconductive cables, targeting power
producers and medical equipment makers seeking more efficient
delivery of electricity.  The wires, known as high-temperature superconductors, are
made using the metal bismuth and have zero electrical resistance,
Kenichi Sato, a chief engineer at the Osaka-based company, said
Sept. 21 in an interview. Sumitomo, whose customers include
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia’s biggest power producer, in 2004
started producing wires capable of delivering up to 200 amperes.  “We’ve confirmed that we can increase the electrical
current capacity by about 1.5 times,” Sato said. Sumitomo will
start selling the cables “within a year,” and will announce
the development at a conference in Tsukuba, north of Tokyo, in
November, he said.  Bismuth-based high-temperature superconductors can transmit
200 times the electrical current of copper cables when cooled
with liquid nitrogen, resulting in less wiring being needed to
transmit power, Sato said. The technology allows for more
efficient connections with renewable energy sources such as
solar and wind, he said.  Customers could benefit from the efficiency of the wires
because liquid nitrogen costs about 50 yen (59 cents) a liter,
which is cheaper than mineral water, Sato said.  ‘Incremental’  “The technology that Sumitomo have announced is an
incremental improvement on first generation high temperature
superconductors,”  Thomas Rowlands-Rees , an analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance in London, said in an e-mail. “Even with
this one-third saving in cost, the technology is always going to
be prohibitively expensive.”  Sumitomo now produces about 500 kilometers (311 miles) of
superconductive wiring a year and targets doubling production
“within one or two years,” Sato said. The company aims to
create Japan’s first power grid using superconductive cables at
Tokyo Electric’s plant in Yokohama, outside Tokyo, as early as
next year.  Superconductivity was discovered in 1911 by Dutch physicist
 Heike Kamerlingh Onnes  and is the phenomenon of zero electrical
resistance when certain materials are cooled to very low
temperatures, according to Sumitomo’s  website . In 1988, Japanese
researcher Hiroshi Maeda developed the bismuth-based high-
temperature superconductor, which has zero electrical resistance
when cooled to -160 degrees Celsius (-256 Fahrenheit) using
liquid nitrogen.  Sato said he expects the technology to be applied in
several areas, including energy production, motors for boats and
magnetic levitation trains, and medical equipment such as
magnetic resonance imaging scanners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masatsugu Horie  in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net 
 Adam Le  in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 