-- Swiss Franc Matches Record Versus Dollar on U.S., Yen Outlook
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-09-24T15:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/swiss-franc-matches-record-high-against-dollar-as-snb-not-seen-intervening.html
The Swiss franc reached a record
high against the dollar as Japan’s intervention in the market
for its currency stoked demand for an alternative to the yen
amid speculation the U.S. economy will weaken.  The franc strengthened against the dollar for the sixth
day, the longest streak in almost two months. The yen fell
against the franc as traders speculated Japan sold its currency
to protect exporters today, repeating a similar move last week,
and that similar action by the Swiss is less likely.  “It’s a macro story cobbled with safe-haven developments,
which point to the Swiss franc being more favored,” said  Derek Halpenny , European head of global currency research at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFG Ltd. in London. “The U.S. economy is
growing at below-trend levels. The justification for a franc-
selling intervention is diminishing in Switzerland, whereas a
yen intervention certainly isn’t in Japan.”  The franc strengthened as much as 0.8 percent against the
dollar to 97.79 centimes, according to Bloomberg data, passing
the 97.86 level set in March 2008, when markets were roiled by
the U.S. subprime-mortgage crisis. It traded at 98.24 centimes
at 4:13 p.m. in London, and had touched the 2008 record earlier
today. The currency gained 0.2 percent against the Japanese
currency to 85.78 yen, and weakened 1 percent versus the euro to
1.3250.  Kyodo News reported earlier today that Japan had likely
sold yen and bought dollars, citing an unidentified market
source. Finance Minister Yoshihiko Noda declined to comment on
whether the government intervened.  U.S. Economy  The franc stayed lower versus the dollar even as a U.S.
report showed orders for capital equipment rebounded in August.  Investors traditionally buy the franc in times of financial
and economic turmoil because of the perceived stability of
Switzerland’s economy, as its trade surplus frees the nation
from dependence on overseas capital. They offload their holdings
of the currency when they want to take on more risk.  “People are buying the Swiss franc as there is this belief
now that there are only a few currencies offering true
stability,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist at Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. in London. “There has been such growing
disenchantment with the major currencies.”  Applications for U.S. unemployment benefits unexpectedly
rose last week, a sign companies remain cautious about hiring as
economic growth slows. Initial jobless claims increased by
12,000 to 465,000 in the week ended Sept. 18, Labor Department
figures showed yesterday in Washington.  Franc Advances  The franc climbed 4.6 percent this year against a basket of
currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, amid concern the U.S. economic recovery is slowing and
euro-region nations including Greece, Spain and Portugal are
struggling to finance their deficits. The currency reached a
record level of 1.2766 per euro on Sept. 8.  The Swiss National Bank began selling francs in March 2009
to curb gains against the euro, ward off deflation and bolster
exports, which account for more than half the economy. The bank
signaled this June that it would end the policy, after losing as
much as 14 billion francs in the first half, saying risks of a
drop in consumer prices had “largely disappeared.”  “The SNB has been quite dovish,” said  Marcus Hettinger , a
currency strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “This
may also be another supportive factor for the franc.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  