-- Syria Is in Talks to Buy Russian Planes as Sanctions Stall Airbus Purchase
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-09-24T14:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/syria-looks-to-russia-for-planes-as-sanctions-hit-plan-to-buy-from-airbus.html
Syria is in talks to buy planes
from Russia after U.S. sanctions stalled negotiations on the
purchase of as many as 50  Airbus SAS  aircraft, said  Abdallah Dardari , deputy prime minister for economic affairs.  “I’m looking for planes with less than 10 percent of U.S.
components,” Dardari told reporters today in Paris. “That
leaves only Russia. We’ve spoken about it with President  Dmitry Medvedev . We are in negotiations.”  Dardari said in an August 2008 interview that Syria plans
to modernize the fleet of state-run  Syrian Arab Airlines . The
carrier had sought to buy single-aisle Airbus A320s as well as
twin-aisle A330, A340 and A350 models. It planned to lease four
planes and then take delivery of the first 14 airliners from
Toulouse, France-based Airbus from 2010 to 2018 and a further 36
by 2028.  The U.S. imposed economic sanctions on Syria in May 2004,
including a ban on transactions by U.S. entities with the
Commercial Bank of Syria, the country’s largest bank, after
then-President  George W. Bush’s  administration accused the
government in Damascus of aiding militants in Iraq and
destabilizing Lebanon. The sanctions have prevented the sales of
Airbus planes to Syria because some of the company’s aircraft
parts are U.S.-made.  General Electric Co. and United Technologies Corp. make
aircraft engines, including models built in partnership with
European companies. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Goodrich
Corp. is the world’s biggest supplier of landing gear.  Embraer, Bombardier  The use of U.S. parts has also ruled out turning to
Brazil’s  Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA  and Canada’s
 Bombardier Inc. , Dardari said.  The sanctions, preventing Boeing from taking part in recent
bidding, have scuttled previous efforts to overhaul Syrian Air’s
fleet. The carrier, known as Syrian Air, was set up in 1946. Its
fleet includes A320s and single-aisle Boeing 727s, according to
its  Web site .  Part of Syrian Air’s multibillion-dollar restructuring may
include preparing it for an initial public offering on the
Damascus Stock Exchange, Dardari said in the 2008 interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 