-- Syria Aims to Attract $55 Billion in Foreign Investment Over Five Years
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-09-24T15:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/syria-aims-to-attract-55-billion-in-foreign-investment-over-five-years.html
Syria aims to attract as much as
$55 billion in foreign direct investment over the next five
years, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs  Abdallah Dardari  said.  About $25 billion of the investment will go into
infrastructure projects, Dardari told reporters today in Paris.
Investment in Syria this year will reach $2.5 billion, he said.  The country’s economy will grow at about 5.8 percent this
year and an average of 5.5 percent to 6 percent over the next
five years, he said. “We know we need a big leap forward to
attract this investment,” Dardari said. “We know that there
are many things we have to do in terms of financial markets and
protectionism.”  Legislation will be introduced or amended on public
procurement, non-government electricity generation, investment
banking, leasing, mortgage financing, central bank independence
and local credit guarantees, Dardari said. Syria is also
considering starting an export guarantee program.  Syria plans to build 5,000 megawatts of power generation
capacity over the next five years and French companies would
account for 1000 megawatts of the projects, Dardari said. About
100 megawatts will be from solar energy and 200 megawatts from
wind-generation, he said.  French Builders  Syria wants French companies to bid for the contract to
build a new terminal at Damascus airport, Dardari said, noting
that private companies can now operate regional airports and
that Syrian skies are now open to private airlines. The Arab
country is seeking to improve its infrastructure as it vies to
attract more tourists. About 6.5 million tourists visit Syria a
year and the government wants to increase the number of visitors
to 14 million by 2015, Dardari said.  “Even with all these changes, we have a long way to go,”
Dardari said. “A competitive economy is a mindset, a new way of
seeing things. This is the real challenge. But the political
determination is unquestionable. There is no going back.”  Syria’s long-term foreign-currency debt was given a rating
of BB- this month, three levels below investment grade, by
Cyprus-based  Capital Intelligence , which was rating the country
for the first time. Short-term bonds in foreign currencies were
rated B, one level below investment grade.  While Syria has “comparatively strong solvency and
liquidity indicators and a demonstrable commitment to gradual
economic reform,” the rating company said, the country’s
“economic structure and institutional frameworks are relatively
weak, and the financial system underdeveloped.”  State ‘Dominant’  Syria’s government is exposed to “potentially significant
contingent liabilities because of the dominant role of the state
in the economy,” Capital Intelligence said. It described the
investment climate as “poor, marred by high levels of state
ownership and protection, bureaucracy and corruption, deficient
legal and regulatory regimes, inadequate physical and
technological infrastructure, and low levels of education and
training.”  The government should focus on implementing changes that
would quicken its transition to a market-based economy, the
company said.  “The Capital Intelligence rating went better than
expected, given that they never asked us for our input,”
Dardari said. “There are many things that we have done already
that were not captured in that report. But we know that there
are many things we have to do in terms of financial markets and
protectionism.”  Foreign Banks  The Arab country’s central bank said last year that it
would allow foreigners to own as much as 60 percent of the
country’s banks, up from 49 percent. As part of encouraging the
development of private industry in its state-dominated economy,
Syria opened its first stock exchange in March of last year.  Syria is negotiating a free-trade agreement with the
Mercosur trade bloc, which includes Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay
and Brazil, Dardari said. The country has a free-trade agreement
with Turkey and an interim agreement with Iran.  Capital Intelligence and the  International Monetary Fund 
have said the government should focus on implementing changes
that would quicken its transition to a market-based economy. The
IMF forecasts that Syria’s economic growth will accelerate to 5
percent in 2010 from 4 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon, at 
Or  mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 