-- U.K. Solar Executives Criticize ‘Asinine’ Review of Subsidies
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2010-09-24T16:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/u-k-solar-executives-criticize-asinine-review-of-subsidies.html
Cuts in the U.K.’s guaranteed
prices for electricity from solar photovoltaic panels would
threaten job creation just as the industry is taking off,
executives at  Sharp Corp . and Solarcentury Holdings Ltd. said.  U.K. Energy and Climate Change Secretary  Chris Huhne  said
last week that all areas of his department are being examined as
part of a government-spending review. “Nothing is safe until
everything is safe,” he said. The subsidies, called feed-in-
tariffs, may be cut before a planned review in 2013, the
Financial Times reported today.  “They said they would give the industry breathing space to
grow,”  Andrew Lee , head of Osaka-based Sharp’s U.K. solar unit,
said today in a phone interview. “Here we are, trying to create
jobs, and they’re now putting huge hurdles.”  Since the subsidies were started on April 1, the U.K. has
installed 25 megawatts of solar panels in about 10,000 homes and
41 commercial installations, according to energy regulator
 Ofgem . That’s just under the total fitted before this year. Even
so, it’s nowhere near installations in continental Europe, said
 Derry Newman , chief executive officer of  Solarcentury.   “If you compare that to Germany, which just this year will
install 7,000 megawatts, and France, which will install 700
megawatts, and we’re already worrying and talking about
adjusting tariffs? It’s asinine,” Newman said. “Adjusting a
policy which took years of work when it already has adjustments
built into it for the end of 2012 is very strange.”  Jobs Created  Newman said his company added 20 jobs since the tariffs
came in. Sharp said in July it would double production capacity
at its factory in Wrexham, Wales, with “hundreds” of jobs
created.  Governments across Europe are reducing subsidies for
photovoltaic energy because of declining costs of solar panels
and installation growth.  France and Germany announced cuts in August of 12 percent
and 15 percent, respectively. Spain and the Czech Republic are
planning cuts of up to 50 percent. Italy this month approved a
staggered cut in incentive levels for the next three years.  The French government’s move, announced with a few days
notice and without consultation with the industry, came after it
said a year ago that tariffs would be fixed until 2012.  U.K. Spending Cuts  “If you go for an installation now, you know exactly what
the return is going to be all the way through,” Huhne told a
cross-party panel of lawmakers who scrutinize energy policy  on
Sept. 15 . “I’m absolutely determined that, unlike in some other
EU countries, there will be no question of investors being able
to call us and criticize us for having retrospectively changed
terms.” At the same time, he left open the possibility of
changing the tariffs awarded to new projects.  Prime Minister  David Cameron’s  coalition of Conservatives
and Liberal Democrats is proposing 113 billion pounds ($179
billion) of spending cuts and tax rises to cut a record deficit
of 11 percent of economic output. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  is due to set budgets for each department in a
spending review on October 20.  The feed-in tariffs are paid for by utilities rather than
the government, and they can recoup the costs through customer
bills. When they were introduced earlier this year, the tariffs
were set up to 2013, and people who install solar panels can
earn as much as 10 times the market rate for electricity.  With the price of solar panels falling, a cut in tariffs
may not harm the industry, according to  Jenny Chase , a solar
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The U.K. solar industry
will continue to grow even if tariffs are cut by more than a
quarter, she said.  “This is not a surprise, nor is it a reason for the solar
industry in the U.K. to panic,” Chase said in an e-mail
interview. “Without such a cut, it is vulnerable to a boom,
massive cost overrun, and backlash scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Marc Roca  in London at   mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 