-- Labour Names Former Incumbent Livingstone as 2012 London Mayor Candidate
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-09-24T10:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/u-k-labour-party-names-red-ken-livingstone-2012-london-mayor-candidate.html
The U.K. Labour Party named former
London mayor  Ken Livingstone  as its candidate to run against
Conservative incumbent  Boris Johnson  in 2012.  Livingstone beat rival candidate  Oona King  with 68.8
percent of the vote in a ballot of London Labour Party members,
the party said in an announcement in the British capital today.  The result sets up a rerun of the 2008 election, which
ended Livingstone’s eight years as mayor. The former Labour
Party lawmaker, 65, says he will campaign on a promise to
protect public services and keep down transportation fares.  “If you want to get this government out you start by
taking out Boris Johnson,” Livingstone said in a speech after
winning the nomination. “Everywhere you look Boris has broken
promises and taken his ax to services that Londoners rely on.”  Livingstone, a London politician since 1973 and, like
Johnson, well-known around Britain, was nicknamed “Red Ken” by
popular newspapers in the 1980s, when he ran the Greater London
Council.  The council, the city’s government at the time, was
abolished by then-Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  in 1986,
after battles with Livingstone over issues such as London
Underground fares and his positioning of a banner showing
London’s rising unemployment figures on County Hall, the GLC
headquarters, across the Thames river from Parliament. The
mayor’s office was created in 2000 by then-Prime Minister  Tony Blair .  Livingstone lost the 2008 election with 42.6 percent of the
vote compared to 48.4 percent for Johnson.  King, 42, a former Labour lawmaker for Bethnal Green and
Bow in east London, had modeled herself as a break from Labour’s
past. She said in a speech in May to mark the start of her
campaign that the Labour Party should look to the future and
“it’s not time to hark back to old battles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  