-- U.K. Stocks Fall, Trimming Fifth Weekly Rally for FTSE 100 Index
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-09-24T11:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/u-k-stocks-fall-trimming-fifth-weekly-rally-for-ftse-100-as-miners-drop.html
U.K. and Irish stocks declined,
with the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  paring its fifth straight
weekly rally, led by a selloff in mining companies and a retreat
by Ireland’s banks.  Kazakhmys Plc lost 2.9 percent after UBS AG recommended
selling the shares. Raw-material companies Xstrata Plc,
Antofagasta Plc and Vedanta Resources Plc also fell. Bank of
Ireland and Allied Irish Banks Plc slid as Davy Stockbrokers
predicted “little respite from elevated funding costs” at
Irish lenders.  The  FTSE 100  fell 8.91, or 0.2 percent, to 5,538.17 as of
12:15 p.m. in London, paring this week’s advance to 0.5 percent.
The gauge is still headed for the longest streak of weekly gains
since April. The  FTSE All-Share Index  declined 0.2 percent
today. Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  retreated 0.6 percent as the yield
premium investors demand to hold Irish bonds instead of German
bunds rose to a record.  “Investors remain concerned about the burden of supporting
the country’s banking system,” said Patrick Gordons, a senior
investment strategist at Killik & Co. in London.  The FTSE 100 surged on the first trading day this week
after the Federal Reserve said it is willing to buy more
securities to reinvigorate the world’s largest economy. The
index has fallen every day since as rising government bond
yields for Europe’s most-indebted nations sparked concern that
the region’s sovereign debt crisis is intensifying.  U.S. Economy  A report today may show U.S. durable goods orders dropped
in August for the third time in the past four months, a sign
that slowing global growth is prompting companies to rein in
spending, according to economists. Separate figures may show
sales of new houses rose last month from a record low in July.  The Commerce Department’s report on goods orders is due at
8:30 a.m. in Washington while new-home sales figures will be
published at 10:00 a.m.
      Kazakhmys  led a gauge of mining shares down 1.3 percent as
UBS AG lowered its recommendation for Kazakhstan’s largest
copper producer to “sell” from ‘buy.” The stock dropped 2.9
percent to 1,386 pence.  Rival Antofagasta lost 3.2 percent to 1,172 pence and Anglo
American Plc retreated 1.9 percent to 2,501 pence. Vedanta’s
shares dropped 1.5 percent to 2,226 pence. UBS analysts lowered
their recommendations for both Anglo and Vedanta to “neutral”
from “buy.”  Record Premium  Bank of Ireland Plc dropped 5.3 percent to 56.8 euro cents
as the extra premium that investors demand to hold Irish debt
rather than German securities of a similar maturity widened to a
record of 427 basis points. The yield premium for Portuguese,
rather than German, sovereign debt also set a record of 416
basis points.  Irish lenders see “little respite from elevated funding
costs” in the near term after site visits yesterday by
international investors to Allied Irish Banks, Bank of Ireland
Plc and Irish Life & Permanent Plc, securities firm Davy said.  “The impact of negative sentiment towards the sovereign
has prevented public debt issue by an Irish bank since April
2010,” Dublin-based Davy said in a note today.  HSBC Holdings Plc was little changed at 664.2 pence after
Europe’s largest bank was said to have appointed  Stuart Gulliver , its current head of investment banking, as its new
chief executive officer.  Michael Geoghegan , 56, will step down
at the end of the year, a person briefed on the matter said.
Chairman  Stephen Green , who resigned this month to become
Britain’s trade minister, will be replaced by Finance Director
 Douglas Flint , the person said.  Interested in Buying  ARM Holdings Plc rallied 6.3 percent to 415.5 pence amid
speculation Oracle Corp. may be interested in buying the
company. Oracle, building on a run of more than 65 acquisitions
during the past five years, is looking to purchase semiconductor
companies and makers of industry-specific software, Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  said yesterday.  “Although it’s by no means obvious that ARM is the company
he has got in mind, we would argue that a takeover of ARM by
Oracle would make sense,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
analyst  Didier Scemama  wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 