-- U.S. REITs Use Stock Sales to Grow After `Balance-Sheet Repair'
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-09-24T20:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/u-s-reits-balance-sheet-repair-gives-way-to-deals-as-stock-sales-advance.html
U.S. real estate investment  trusts 
are selling shares to fund property acquisitions after using
record cash from equity offerings last year to reduce debt and
cover dividends.  Landlords including  BioMed Realty Trust Inc.  have sold
$1.38 billion of stock since Sept. 17, making this week the
biggest in five months for new secondary offerings by REITs,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They join property
owners such as  UDR Inc.  and  Duke Realty Corp. , which have sold
shares this year to fund acquisitions.  REITs completed $21.2 billion in secondary sales last year,
the most in data going back to 1992, according to the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. While offerings in
2009 were used primarily for “balance-sheet repair,” money
raised this year is funding purchases intended to boost
earnings, said  Michael Knott , managing director at research
company Green Street Advisors in Newport Beach, California.  “For the most part, companies are pairing equity raises
with external growth opportunities,” Knott said in a telephone
interview. “Over the next few years, our hope would be to see
companies elect to fund acquisitions with equity so they could
still reduce balance-sheet leverage over time.”  U.S. REITs that own real estate raised $11.8 billion in
secondary offerings this year through yesterday, data from
Charlottesville, Virginia-based  SNL Financial  show. That’s about
half what they raised in all of 2009, when the companies were
shoring up their finances during the recession. Commercial
 property values  sank as much as much as 44 percent last year
from the 2007 peak, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Third-Highest Level  This year’s secondary offerings by property REITs are the
third-highest in SNL data going back to 2000.  The volume of U.S. commercial property transactions is
beginning to rise after owners previously were reluctant to sell
with the drop in prices. The market for buildings is picking up,
and more is available for purchase, Knott said.  UDR , which owns apartment buildings across the U.S., sold
shares this month to help pay for a $455.1 million acquisition
of five apartment complexes and the development of one more. The
purchase of the five properties, in California, Massachusetts
and Maryland, will be funded with 87 percent equity, according
to a presentation that the Highlands Ranch, Colorado-based
company  filed  with regulators.  Rental Revenue  UDR planned the stock sale, with proceeds of $359 million,
to make the acquisition, add rental revenue from the apartments
and improve the company’s balance sheet, Chief Executive Officer
 Thomas Toomey  said.  “It’s a great opportunity for us,” he said in a telephone
interview. “Overnight, you can raise $350 million.”  Duke Realty  used part of the $310.8 million raised in a
June share sale to buy out a joint-venture partner for $298.2
million including assumed debt. The venture owns 106 industrial
buildings and 63 acres (25 hectares) of undeveloped land in the
Midwest and Southeast, according to Indianapolis-based Duke,
which has properties in 18 U.S. cities.  “It was a good-sized transaction and made sense to where
our stock price was at the time,”  Randy Henry , director of
investor relations at Duke, said in a telephone interview. The
share sale enabled the company to lower its debt-to-equity ratio
and add properties already under management to its industrial
portfolio, he said.  Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc., Winthrop Realty
Trust, Health Care REIT Inc. and CommonWealth REIT all sold
shares to the public this week. BioMed and Realty Income Corp.
are using part of the proceeds from their secondary offerings to
pay for acquisitions.  REIT Purchases Rise  REIT property purchases may rise to $16 billion this year
from $4 billion in 2009, according to a Sept. 15 report by
 Jordan Sadler , senior REIT analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets
Inc. in New York.  “The next wave of equity you’re going to see will be
related to specific acquisitions,” Mary Hogan Preusse, managing
director and co-head of Americas real estate at APG Asset
Management US Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“With proven access to varied sources of capital, REITs can
close the deal.”  Preusse’s firm is part of APG, the Dutch pension system
that had about 250 billion euros ($333 billion) under management
at the end of July.  Sales of commercial real estate in the U.S. rose to $36.2
billion in the first half of 2010, up 67 percent from a year
earlier, according to New York-based research company Real
Capital Analytics Inc.  “My sense is that the investment market is picking up and
there’s more product for sale,” said Knott of Green Street.  Top Buyers  Three of the top five purchasers of property this year are
REITs, led by mall owner  Simon Property Group Inc ., according to
data from Real Capital.  Simon, based in Indianapolis, bought Prime Outlets
Acquisition Co. for $2.3 billion in August. Jacksonville,
Florida-based  Regency Centers Corp. , an owner of neighborhood
shopping centers, and  Digital Realty Trust Inc. , a data-center
landlord based in San Francisco, also are in the top five.  The 117-member Bloomberg Real Estate Investment Trust  Index 
advanced 3.1 percent today in New York. The index has gained 18
percent this year.  Among REITs that completed secondary offerings this year,
the  Duke  sale “was one deal that investors got behind,” Knott
said. Toomey,  UDR ’s CEO, said there was healthy demand for the
shares his company sold this month.  “It signifies that there are a lot of investors sitting on
cash,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 