-- Berlin Cold War-Era U.S. Miltary Base Filmed by Quentin Tarantino for Sale
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-09-24T11:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/u-s-cold-war-army-headquarters-in-berlin-filmed-by-tarantino-is-for-sale.html
The German government is seeking a
buyer for the Cold War-era U.S. military headquarters in Berlin,
a seven-building complex built under Nazi rule where scenes for
the movies “Inglourious Basterds” and “Valkyrie” were shot.  The 20,000 square meters (215,000 square feet) of floor
space “in leafy surroundings” on the edge of western Berlin
have mostly stood empty since U.S. troops left the once-divided
capital in 1994-95, Germany’s federal property sales agency, the
Bundesanstalt fuer Immobilienaufgaben, said on its  website .  “We want to see what offers we get on the market,”
Barbara Beckstett, sales team leader, said by phone today. She
declined to put a value on the complex, saying the agency isn’t
setting a sale price. The deadline for bids is Oct. 29.  Now on Berlin’s register of monuments, the site was home to
the U.S. brigade in then-West Berlin.  U.S. troops  defended the
capitalist outpost during crises such as the 1948-49 Soviet
blockade, which prompted the Allied airlift, and East Germany’s
building of the Berlin Wall in 1961. Built in 1936-38, the site
was a Nazi air defense post during World War II.  Director  Quentin Tarantino  used the former Lucius D. Clay
Headquarters in his 2009 “Inglourious Basterds,” starring  Brad Pitt , including for scenes in the office of  Adolf Hitler , played
by German actor Martin Wuttke, said Bianca Makarewicz, a
spokeswoman for production company  Studio Babelsberg AG  in
Potsdam, near Berlin.  Scenes for “Valkyrie,” the 2008 movie starring  Tom Cruise 
as Hitler assassination plotter Col. Claus von Stauffenberg,
also were filmed there.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  