-- Lumber Rises by Exchange Limit as Demand for U.S. Capital Equipment Gains
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-09-24T18:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/lumber-rises-by-exchange-limit-as-demand-for-u-s-capital-equipment-gains.html
Lumber futures rose the most
allowed by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, capping the biggest
weekly gain since July, as a rebound in demand for U.S. capital
equipment bolstered prospects for industrial materials.  The Commerce Department said orders rose 4.1 percent in
August after a 5.3 percent decline in July, signaling a slowdown
in business investment may be less severe than some economists
projected. Durable-goods  orders , excluding transportation, rose
2 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose as much as 2.1
percent.  “There was some general economic news that came out this
morning, and the stock market improved,” said  Hakan Ekstrom ,
the president of Wood Resources International LLC in Bothell,
Washington. “That could spill over to lumber.”  Lumber futures for November delivery rose the CME’s $10
limit, or 4.3 percent, to settle at $240.50 per 1,000 board feet
at 1:13 p.m. in Chicago. This week, the price jumped 10 percent,
the most since the five days ended July 2. The commodity has
surged 38 percent in the past year.  Economists had projected durable-goods orders, excluding
transportation, would fall 1 percent, according to the median of
72 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  “This is reassuring news,” said  Dean Maki , the chief U.S.
economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York. “Capital-goods
spending still seems to be on a very solid underlying trend.”  Yesterday, futures reached $243.50, the highest price since
June 4. This week, the Commerce Department reported a jump in
U.S. housing starts that revived prospects for construction
materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  