-- UniCredit's Rampl Under Pressure to Speed Search for New Chief
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-09-24T11:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/unicredit-s-rampl-under-pressure-to-speed-search-for-new-chief.html
UniCredit SpA  Chairman  Dieter Rampl 
is under intensifying pressure from investors and regulators to
choose a new chief executive officer after  Alessandro Profumo 
left Italy’s largest bank with no succession plan in place.  “In turbulent times you need a captain on board,” said
 Peter Braendle , a fund manager at Swisscanto Asset Management AG
in Zurich, which oversees about $62 billion, including UniCredit
shares. “They should name a new CEO within a few weeks.”  Profumo, 53, quit three days ago after relations soured
with some of the bank’s largest Italian shareholders over Libyan
investments in the company. The Bank of Italy, in a letter the
next day, asked UniCredit to move quickly in naming a successor
and explain the executive powers assumed by  Rampl , who became
interim CEO, three people familiar with the matter who declined
to be identified said yesterday.  Profumo’s resignation at an extraordinary board meeting
surprised some investors and raised concern the bank, which
employs more than 160,000 people in 22 countries, will be left
rudderless at a time when the industry is still emerging from
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and facing
increased regulation and stricter capital rules.  “This is a delicate moment, I hope they’ve considered all
the aspects,”  Roberto Colaninno , the chairman of Piaggio SpA
and a UniCredit shareholder, told reporters in Milan yesterday.  Rampl, 63, said the Milan-based company won’t alter its
strategy, which includes selling certain assets and reducing
costs to improve its finances. The bank is reviewing internal
and external candidates for the CEO post, a succession that will
be managed swiftly “but with great diligence,” Rampl said in a
letter to employees Sept. 22.  Possible Successors  UniCredit’s four deputy CEOs --  Paolo Fiorentino ,  Roberto Nicastro ,  Sergio Ermotti  and  Federico Ghizzoni  -- are helping
Rampl run the bank.  Andrea Orcel , Bank of America Corp.’s executive chairman of
global banking and markets, may be the leading candidate for the
job, La Repubblica reported today, without saying where it got
the information. Former Capitalia SpA CEO  Matteo Arpe  and
Allianz SE’s Italian chief Enrico Cucchiani are also under
consideration, while Nicastro, who runs UniCredit’s consumer
banking division, has the best chance among the deputy CEOs,
Repubblica said.  Macquarie Group Ltd., CA Cheuvreux and Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods are among brokerages that reduced their recommendations on
the stock, citing concern over the CEO vacancy.  UniCredit  rose
1.5 cents, or 0.8 percent, by 12:06 p.m. in Milan trading today,
after  dropping  6 percent in the two days following Profumo’s
departure.  ‘Right Candidate’  Alessandro Roccati , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
London who cut his rating from “neutral” to “underperform,” said
in a report that Profumo’s departure may hurt the stock because
of the lack of a replacement and signs of growing political
influence on the bank.  “This isn’t what you expect from a board,” said  Paul Vrouwes , who helps oversee about 362 billion euros, including
UniCredit shares, at ING Investment Management in The Hague,
Netherlands. “Uncertainty is always a negative. The key now is
to select the right candidate.”  UniCredit isn’t the only European bank going through
management turmoil. At London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc , the
region’s largest lender by market value, CEO  Michael Geoghegan 
will step down at the end of the year to be succeeded by
investment-banking chief  Stuart Gulliver , while Finance Director
 Douglas Flint  will replace Chairman  Stephen Green , a person
briefed on the matter said yesterday.  Barclays Plc  named  Robert Diamond , the architect of its
investment banking expansion, to succeed  John Varley  running the
London-based firm on Sept. 7, while Lloyds Banking Group Plc is
looking for a replacement for CEO  Eric Daniels .  Libya Discord  The fall of Profumo had its roots in the expansion that
made UniCredit Italy’s most international bank.  Takeovers  worth
$65 billion over a decade left the bank short of funds when
confidence in financial companies collapsed in 2008 and credit
became scarce, forcing the CEO to turn to investors for  cash 
twice in 18 months. Recent Libyan investments in the lender met
opposition from the Italian  foundations  that own more than 11
percent of the bank.  The Libya Investment Authority, a sovereign wealth fund,
recently increased its holding in UniCredit by 0.5 percent to
2.6 percent, while the Central Bank of Libya holds almost 5
percent. If stock market regulator Consob and the Bank of Italy
determine the investors should be considered as a single entity,
their combined voting rights would be capped at 5 percent, in
line with UniCredit’s rules.  Separation of Powers  The Bank of Italy also asked UniCredit’s board to clarify
the length and nature of the duties assigned to Rampl, because
Italian rules prohibit chairmen from taking over executive
powers unless under “exceptional circumstances.”  “The rules seek to ensure a clear separation of executive
roles, and avoid a concentration of power in the same hands,”
said  Carlo Alberto Carnevale-Maffe , a professor of business
strategy at Bocconi University in Milan. “UniCredit’s board
mismatched the rules as it didn’t give details on Rampl’s powers
nor a deadline for his mandate,” he said.  The board’s decision also drew criticism from labor unions,
which called the move “irresponsible” as the bank is in the
midst of planning 4,700 job cuts in Italy over three years.
Profumo was also reviewing options for its Pioneer Global Asset
Management unit, including a possible sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 sirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  