-- Turkey, Israel Still `Friends' Following Dispute Over Aid Ships, Gul Says
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-09-24T17:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/turkey-israel-still-friends-following-dispute-over-aid-ships-gul-says.html
Turkish President  Abdullah Gul  said
his nation and Israel are still “friends,” even after the
Israeli military raid on vessels attempting to breach a naval
blockade of the Gaza Strip left nine Turkish citizens dead.  “I must emphasize that Turkey and Israel are friends,”
Gul said at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in New York today.
“There are strong, centuries-old ties of friendships between
our people, and Turkey was one of the first countries to
recognize Israel in 1949.”  Gul’s comments came two days after a United Nations human
rights panel of inquiry said Israel’s May 31 efforts to stop a
flotilla of ships from reaching the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip
broke international human rights and humanitarian law. At the UN
General Assembly yesterday, Gul reiterated Turkish demands for
an apology from Israel.  “The attacks resulted in grave civilian casualties and
were an unacceptable act and clear violation of international
law,” Gul said today.  The assault on the ship Mavi Marmara constituted “grave
violations of human rights law and international humanitarian
law,” according to a  report  by a three-person panel of experts
appointed by the UN Human Rights Council.  Israel’s Foreign Ministry called the report “as biased and
as one-sided as the body that has produced it,” and said its
own inquiries had sufficiently investigated the raid.  Israeli Account  Israel has said that in the confrontation, which followed
numerous warnings for the ships to change course, its soldiers
were attacked with knives and clubs after boarding the Mavi
Marmara, one of the six vessels in the flotilla, and seven were
wounded, including by gunfire after volunteers aboard the ship
managed to grab Israeli firearms.  Activists have said they threw the firearms into the sea.
There was no violence on the other five ships.  The Israeli government says its blockade of Gaza is legal
because it is in “a state of armed conflict” with Hamas, which
rules the coastal enclave and is listed as a terrorist
organization by the U.S., Israel and the European Union. Some
countries, such as Turkey, dispute the legality of the blockade.  Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state. Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  