-- Vale Climbs on $2 Billion Share Buyback, Dividend, Hong Kong Stock Listing
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-09-24T18:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/vale-approves-share-buyback-hong-kong-listing-to-gain-exposure.html
Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, surged to its highest level in more than four
months after approving a stock buyback of as much as $2 billion
and proposing an extraordinary dividend.  Vale’s  preferred shares  rose as much as 3.5 percent to
44.95 reais, the highest intraday level since May 11, after
announcing the buyback. Vale said late yesterday it will  buy
back  as many as 64.8 million  voting shares  and 98.4 million
preferred shares, or 5 percent of the total stock in each class.  The company, based in Rio de Janeiro, in a separate
statement proposed a $1 billion extraordinary  dividend  to return
to shareholders the funds generated by asset sales to be
completed by year-end. Norway’s Norsk Hydro ASA agreed in May to
buy assets from Vale in a deal valued at $4.9 billion.  “Vale signals that it believes its shares are
undervalued,”  Leonardo Correa  and  Renato Antunes , analysts at
Barclays Capital in Sao Paulo, said in a note to clients
yesterday. The company expects its shares can “provide better
return potential than other alternatives.”  Vale also said it wants to list depositary receipts in Hong
Kong to gain “direct exposure” to the Asian capital markets.
The listing won’t involve a capital increase and will require
regulatory approval, the company said.  Global Trading  “We will offer to investors all over the world the option
to trade our shares in various time zones, in the Americas,
Europe and Asia, consolidating Vale’s position as a major global
company,” Vale said.  About half of Vale’s sales come from Asia, with Chinese
steelmakers being its main customers.  The company’s board will vote on the extraordinary dividend
in January as well as a  proposal  to boost its regular dividend
by $500 million.  “It’s a positive sign that more of Vale’s cash bonanza
will be shared with shareholders,”  Alexander Hacking , a New
York-based analyst with Citigroup Inc., said in a note. Vale can
generate $24 billion of operating cash flow “at current iron-
ore prices,” he wrote.  Vale rose 2.8 percent to 44.64 reais in Sao Paulo trading
at 2:07 p.m. New York time. The stock has gained 24 percent in
the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  