-- Vatican Bank Unaware Italian Account Was Frozen, Chairman Tells Corriere
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2010-09-24T12:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/vatican-bank-unaware-italian-account-was-frozen-chairman-tells-corriere.html
The Vatican Bank was unaware that
its account at a Rome bank had been frozen for alleged violation
of money-laundering laws when it tried to wire cash from it this
month, sparking an Italian probe, Chairman  Ettore Gotti Tedeschi 
told Corriere della Sera.  The Institute for Religious Works, or IOR as the Vatican
Bank is called, would not have requested the transfers from its
 Credito Artigiano SpA  account had it known that the account was
blocked, he suggested in an interview published today.  Milan-based Credito Artigiano froze the account on April 18
after the IOR failed to provide data on its client relationships
as required by the Bank of Italy and European money-laundering
laws, Corriere said on Sept. 22, citing court documents.  Credito Artigiano informed the Bank of Italy on Sept. 14
that the IOR had requested two wire transfers from the account
on Sept. 6 for a total of 23 million euros ($31 million), and
finance police seized the funds in a “precautionary” move on
Sept. 20, the Milan-based  daily  said.  A Credito Artigiano spokesman was not available to comment
when contacted by telephone by Bloomberg News. The Milan-based
lender is 70 percent owned by  Credito Valtellinese  Scarl, whose
Chairman  Giovanni De Censi  is an IOR adviser, according to a
spokesman for the bank based in the northern city of Sondrio.  Rome magistrates are probing Gotti Tedeschi, himself an
adviser to Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti , and another
top IOR executive for allegedly omitting information from the
wire transfers in possible violation of money-laundering laws.  The investigation stems from a “misunderstanding,”
between the IOR and the bank that received the wire-transfer
order, Vatican newspaper L’Osservatore Romano said yesterday.
The daily said the bank was “clearing up” the issue with
authorities.  Gotti Tedeschi, 65, who also teaches financial ethics at
Milan’s Catholic University, declined to comment on the probe
today in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  