-- Venezuela Vote Machines `Impossible to Manipulate,' Smartmatic Chief Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2010-09-24T18:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/venezuela-vote-machines-impossible-to-manipulate-smartmatic-chief-says.html
Venezuela’s congressional elections
results this weekend will be “impossible to manipulate,” said
 Antonio Mugica , president of Smartmatic Corp., the maker of
voting machines that led to an opposition boycott of the 2005
race.  Political opponents of President  Hugo Chavez  pulled out of
legislative elections in 2005 saying they could not trust the
automated voting system run by Smartmatic. Chavez said on Sept.
8 that the opposition will cry fraud again if they are unhappy
with the results of the Sept. 26 elections.  Venezuela-born Mugica said the electronic voting system is
“bulletproof” because it provides a paper receipt to each
voter and a printout of total votes to election witnesses that
can be compared against official results.  “We have a system which makes it impossible to
manipulate,” said Mugica in an interview in his Caracas office.
“Any citizen can do an audit and if his vote doesn’t match,
it’s obvious.”  Venezuela’s automated voting system is sound for the moment
because the National Electoral Council has permitted sufficient
audits of the system, said  Carlos Genatios , a director of Ojo
Electoral, a group that monitors Venezuela’s elections.  Still, a law passed by the National Assembly last year that
redistributed electoral power in favor of rural areas where
Chavez is most popular will likely ensure that the president’s
PSUV party retains a majority over the opposition Unity Table
coalition, Genatios said.  ‘Perverted’  “That has perverted the constitutional concept of
proportional representation and it casts a shadow over these
elections,” Genatios said. Chavez’s use of a law that allows
him to interrupt TV and radio channels’ broadcasting schedule to
air speeches in which he promotes his party’s candidates is also
contrary to the law’s spirit, Genatios said.  Smartmatic, which began by providing secure messaging
systems for Mexican banks, won a concession to provide an
automated voting system for a recall referendum against Chavez
in 2004, beating competitors such as Munich-based  Siemens AG ,
San Franciso-based Election Systems & Software and Madrid-based
Indra Sistemas SA.  Fraud Claims  After Chavez won the vote, opposition leader Nelson
Rampersad claimed fraud and called for an audit of Smartmatic’s
machines. The National Electoral Council and the Atlanta-based
Carter Center found no evidence of tampering.  The U.S. Treasury Department in 2006 investigated
Smartmatic’s takeover of Oakland-based  Sequoia Voting Systems 
over concerns it was linked to the Chavez government.
Smartmatic sold Sequoia in 2007.  While it owned Sequoia, Mugica said Smartmatic controlled
around 30 percent of the U.S. market. Smartmatic’s equipment is
still used in parts of the U.S. such as Chicago, Mugica said. He
denied any links to Chavez’s government.  The Amsterdam-based Smartmatic has contracts in the
Philippines, Curacao and some parts of the U.S., he said.  The company has annual revenue of $200 million, according
to Mugica. Smartmatic is owed a “significant” amount by
Venezuela’s electoral council but the company will not be
pulling out of Sunday’s election, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  