-- Vietnam Must Address Concern Dong May Slide, IMF's Benedict Bingham Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-24T07:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/vietnam-must-address-concern-dong-may-slide-imf-s-benedict-bingham-says.html
Vietnam must work to address
expectations its currency will depreciate further, according to
the International Monetary Fund’s representative in the country.  The Southeast Asian nation faces an “embedded expectation
of a declining trend in the dong,”  Benedict Bingham , the IMF’s
senior resident representative in Hanoi, said in prepared
comments for a presentation. It was delivered at a seminar in Ho
Chi Minh City on Sept. 21 organized by a National Assembly
committee, and posted on the IMF’s website this week.  Vietnam’s central bank devalued the dong last month for the
third time in the past year, citing the need to curb the trade
deficit. Further pressure on the currency “would be negative”
for financial stability, Fitch Ratings said in July when it
lowered the nation’s debt rating.  The state of the country’s foreign-exchange market has
“undermined confidence in the dong” in part because it has
“increased transaction costs and uncertainty for Vietnamese
businesses,” Bingham said. The currency market has also
“impaired Vietnam’s standing among international investors,”
he said.  The State Bank of Vietnam weakened the dong’s reference
exchange rate by 2 percent on Aug. 18 to 18,932 per dollar. The
currency can fluctuate 3 percent on either side of the figure.
It was trading at 19,490 at 12:58 p.m. in Hanoi, compared with
17,886 in November 2009 before the first of the three
devaluations.  Concerns about an overheating  economy , the balance of
payments and a high  inflation  rate will probably “keep the
currency under stress,” Capital Economics Ltd. analysts said in
a research note sent yesterday, predicting an exchange rate of
20,400 per dollar by the end of 2011.  The Vietnamese have shifted from dong to U.S. dollar assets
or into gold because of expectations of dong devaluations, the
IMF said in a report this month.  Vietnam’s financial system has faced excessive volatility,
Bingham said. A lack of transparency has hurt confidence in the
country’s macroeconomic management, partly due to a reluctance
to adjust the central bank’s benchmark interest rate, he said.
The benchmark was left unchanged at 8 percent for the ninth
consecutive month in September.  Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. Editors: Sunil Jagtiani  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  