-- Vietnam Consumer Price Growth Quickened in September as Food Costs Jumped
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-24T10:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/vietnam-consumer-price-growth-quickened-in-september-as-food-costs-jumped.html
Vietnamese inflation  accelerated
for the first time in six months as food and education costs
rose, signaling the government may have less scope to push for
lower lending rates to bolster the economy.  Consumer prices climbed 8.92 percent in September from a
year earlier, compared with an 8.18 percent advance in August,
according to figures released today by the General Statistics
Office in Hanoi. The reading is the highest since May. Prices
rose 1.31 percent in September from the previous month.  Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung ’s government is targeting a
25 percent expansion in credit this year and 6.5 percent
economic growth, even as inflation has held above its 8 percent
goal for eight consecutive months. Today’s data may fan concerns
that the drive to increase loans and a recent devaluation of the
dong conflict with price stability.  The latest inflation figure is “surprisingly high, even
though we had expected greater price pressures this month as the
effect of the dong’s devaluation kicked in and world commodity
prices rose,”  Hai Pham , a Singapore-based analyst at Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in a note. “We are
concerned about high inflation becoming more entrenched in the
coming months.”  The State Bank of Vietnam weakened the dong’s reference
exchange rate by 2 percent last month, citing the need to narrow
the trade deficit.  ‘Weak Currency’  The dong traded at 19,490 per dollar at 1 p.m. in Hanoi
from 19,099 before the devaluation was announced. The Ho Chi
Minh City Stock Exchange’s VN Index fell 0.2 percent today to
449.71, and is down 9.1 percent this year.  “Vietnam’s expansionary fiscal and monetary policy are
resulting in a weak currency and high inflation,” said  Jonathan Pincus , a Ho Chi Minh City-based economist with the Vietnam
Program at the Harvard Kennedy School. “Unless we see evidence
of tighter policy, we would expect prices to continue to rise.”  The government has been urging commercial lenders to cut
loan rates. The central bank said this month short-term lending
rates in dong ranged from 12 percent to 15 percent, and that
credit growth reached 16.3 percent in the first eight months of
2010 from the end of last year.  While the government is concerned that high lending rates
could affect industrial activity, “premature” monetary
loosening may cause a “deterioration” in the trade deficit and
boost inflation, the International Monetary Fund said in  a
report  this month.  Overall food prices gained 10.81 percent in September from
a year earlier, while costs in a category including rice
advanced 14.01 percent, today’s report showed. Education prices
jumped 15.56 percent from a year ago, and surged 12.02 percent
from August.  “The lofty rise in education” largely reflects an
increase in tuition costs as well as back-to-school spending,
 Matt Hildebrandt , a Singapore-based economist at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. , said in a note.  Economic growth may reach 6.7 percent this year, exceeding
the government’s target, Deputy Minister of Planning and
Investment  Cao Viet Sinh  said on Sept. 17.  -- Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City. Editors:  Sunil Jagtiani ,
 Alan Soughley   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at   canstey@bloomberg.net  