-- Lombardi, the National Rocks, Benno, Ballet, Met: N.Y. Weekend
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/vince-lombardi-kicks-butt-the-national-rocks-benno-ballet-n-y-weekend.html
Catch Brooklyn-based band  The
National  tonight at the Wellmont, performing tracks from their
most recent album, “High Violet.”  Frontman Matt Berninger’s baritone manages to sound both
serious and ironic. He’s also a sight to behold on stage: He’ll
caper and flail, with a likely trip into the audience as he’s
wailing.  The Wellmont is at 5 Seymour Street in Montclair, N.J.
Information +1-877-935-5668;  http://www.wellmonttheatre.com   Saturday  Head down to the Village for  Westbeth ’s 40th anniversary as
it kicks off a free, 9-day festival.  Architect  Richard Meier  converted a 13-story industrial
complex once housing Bell Labs into affordable housing and
studios for artists, who ranged from Diane Arbus to  Vin Diesel .  “East Meets Midwest: New Visions of Figurative Painting”
is at the Westbeth Gallery, includes paintings by Philip Hale
and Timothy King, among many others.  Stick around for Eve Zanni, who combines Afro-Cuban and
Middle-Eastern rhythms with classic jazz, and the soulful sounds
of singer-pianist Valerie Ghent, both appearing later in the
evening at the Brecht Forum.  Westbeth is at 55 Bethune St. Information:
 http://www.westbeth.org/   Grab a quick bite at  Fatty Crab , a Malaysian spot offering
a lot of savory small plates.  Quench your thirst with a Straits Sling, made with gin,
Benedictine and kirschwasser or down the Dark and Stormy rum
swizzle.  Then try sticky chicken wings, fatty duck or meaty pork
ribs.  Fatty Crab is at 643 Hudson Street. Information: +1-212-
352-3590.  Saturday Night  Catch “Lombardi,” a new play about the legendary coach.  Set during the tense 1965 N.F.L. season when the Packers
were trying to go the distance after two disappointing years,
the production features Dan Lauria from “The Wonder Years” as
 Vince Lombardi  and Judith Light as his long-suffering, acerbic
wife, Marie.  Hear it for yourself: “Winning isn’t everything; it’s the
only thing!”  In previews at Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway. Opens
October 21. Information:  http://circle-in-the-square.com/   Sunday  For over a century, the kitchen has served as everything
from a scientific food prep machine to a prison for docile
hausfraus. Remember “Kinder, Kuche, Kirche?”  “Counter Space: Design and the Modern Kitchen” at the
Museum of Modern Art, assembles some 300 design objects, ranging
from  Philippe Starck ’s 1988 sexy Juicy Salif Lemon Squeezer to
bland plastic Tupperware. Don’t miss the 1926 Frankfurt kitchen
designed by Margarete Schutte-Lihotzky, Austria’s first female
architect, still a modernist masterpiece.  There are also posters, films, photographs and paintings,
including  Warhol ’s Brillo boxes.  The show will be a revelation, especially for those of you
with vestigial kitchens.  MoMA is at 11 West 53 Street. Information: +1-212-708-9400;
 http://www.moma.org   Sunday Afternoon  Think Slinky when you take in Benjamin Millepied’s giddy
“Why am I not where you are” at the New York City Ballet.
Showcasing Sara Mearns, Sean Suozzi, Amar Ramasar and tiny,
elegant principal dancer Kathryn Morgan, the piece also stars
 Santiago Calatrava ’s sinuous, shape-shifting sets.  There’s an odd couple trying to break into the larger
crowd, which means the entire corps is out in force.  All three works on the afternoon program, including
 Christopher Wheeldon ’s “Estancia” and Mauro Bigonzetti’s
“Luce Nascosta,” had their premieres last spring as part of
the company’s architect-centered season.  The David H. Koch Theatre is at Lincoln Center, 65th Street
and Broadway. Information: +1-212-870-5570;
 http://www.nycballet.com   Sunday Night  Thomas Keller  protege Jonathan Benno has at last opened
Lincoln, his $20 million, solo restaurant nestled under that
strange swath of bright green grass across from Juilliard.  The glass-walled eatery designed by Diller Scofidio &
Renfro lets diners contemplate the Henry Moore in its shrunken
reflecting pool.  Lincoln serves high-end versions of Italian favorites with
a wine list to match. Entrees will likely range from $32-$40 and
the 7-course tasting menu about $125.  Lincoln is at 142 West 65th Street. Information: +1-212-
359-6500.  Looking Ahead  Monday brings opening night at the Metropolitan Opera, so
grab your helmet and check out “Das Rheingold” free at Lincoln
Center Plaza and Times Square where the company has set up big
screens.  The staging by Robert Lepage of Cirque du Soleil fame,
features a 45-ton computer-driven machine, projections and
tricky lighting effects. Bryn Terfel stars as chief god Wotan,
who moves into Valhalla at the end of the show.  The Met will be distributing 3,000 free tickets to the
Plaza show beginning at noon on Sunday. Times Square is first
come, first served.  The Met is at Broadway and 65th Street. Information: +1-
212-362-6000;  http://www.metoperafamily.org/metopera/   (With assistance from  Jeremy Gerard ,  Paul Goguen  and  Lili Rosboch .  Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 