-- Vitro Creditors Say Talks Failed to Result in Debt Accord for Glassmaker
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-09-24T18:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/vitro-creditors-say-talks-failed-to-result-in-debt-accord-for-glassmaker.html
Vitro SAB , the Mexican glassmaker
that defaulted on $1.2 billion of bonds last year, and a group
of creditors failed to reach a debt agreement in negotiations
last week, the group said.  The group said in an e-mail it opposes a consent
solicitation Vitro plans to send to bondholders this month for
approval of the Monterrey, Mexico-based company’s debt proposal.
The group said it holds more than $500 million of bonds, and
holders of an additional $300 million support its position.  “Vitro continues to demand concessions from creditors
which produce an unacceptably poor economic outcome for
noteholders,” the group, represented by Chanin Capital Partners
LLC and White & Case LLP, said in the statement.  A Vitro spokesman declined to comment.  The creditor group has rejected three debt proposals from
Vitro. The company in a Sept. 9 filing to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission said it believes it has support from a
majority of creditors for its offer. Including other debt, Vitro
has said the restructuring amounts to $1.5 billion.  Fintech Advisory Inc., a New York-based investment fund,
has been advising Vitro for “some time” and shouldn’t be
considered an independent creditor, the group said. Vitro said
Sept. 7 that Fintech bought the rights to about $177 million of
derivatives obligations. The company has said the liabilities
will be included in the debt plan.  “The company does not have the support of any member of
the steering group nor any other noteholder with whom we’ve been
in contact,” the group said.  The company defaulted on debt in February 2009 after a
global recession slashed demand for construction and auto glass.
The company also incurred more than $240 million of losses
related to derivative bets on natural gas and the Mexican peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 