-- Disney Internet President Wadsworth Resigns; Successor to Be Named Shortly
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-09-24T18:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/walt-disney-co-internet-unit-president-steve-wadsworth-resigns.html
Walt Disney Co.  said  Steve Wadsworth  will step down as president of the company’s
Interactive Media Group.  A replacement will be named shortly, the Burbank,
California-based company said in a statement. In an e-mail to
employees last night, Wadsworth said he’ll remain through a
transition after Disney Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger 
picks his successor.  Wadsworth, a 17-year veteran, becomes the sixth Disney
division head to leave his job this year. That includes Chief
Financial Officer  Tom Staggs  and Parks chief  Jay Rasulo  swapping
roles.  John Pleasants , CEO of Playdom, the social games company
Disney bought in July, is the leading candidate for Wadsworth’s
job, the New York Times reported yesterday, citing unidentified
people with knowledge of the matter.  “There are a number of career adventures and new endeavors
that I have been interested in exploring, but my commitment and
focus have been here at Disney,” Wadsworth wrote in the e-mail.
“While there is never a good time to leave a great role at a
great company, for many reasons now is the right time for me to
move on.”  Courtney Simmons , a spokeswoman for Disney’s Interactive
division, said Wadsworth was unavailable to comment further.  Big media companies typically lose money online. Disney’s
interactive group lost $65 million last quarter, while  News
Corp. ’s digital media unit lost $174 million in the quarter
ended in June. CBS Corp. stopped reporting interactive results
after it lost $41.3 million in the first nine months of 2009.  Acquisitions  Wadsworth has run Disney’s Interactive group since 1999 and
assumed oversight of video-game operations in 2008. Since paying
$350 million for the kids’ social network Club Penguin three
years ago, Disney has purchased Wideload Games, whose founder
helped create Microsoft Corp.’s hit “Halo” franchise. And in
July, Disney acquired Tapulous, a publisher of music-related
games for Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  “I am confident that the business is well positioned for
continued significant growth,” Wadsworth wrote. “Our recent
re-organization and acquisitions have put in place all of the
elements needed to build a large, high growth, profitable
business across multiple interactive media categories.”  Disney, the world’s biggest media company, rose 45 cents to
$33.57 at 2:08 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange  composite 
trading. Before today, it had gained 2.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  