-- Warren Plays Volcker-Like Role for Obama in Finance Regulation
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-09-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/warren-plays-familiar-volcker-like-role-for-obama-in-financial-regulation.html
President  Barack Obama  struck a
familiar chord when he named  Elizabeth Warren  to help set up a
new consumer protection bureau: putting a prominent figure in an
advisory role to validate his economic message.  At the start of his presidency, that validation came from
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker . His appointment to
lead the  president’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board  within
weeks of Obama’s election lent the president credibility with
the financial industry and Americans wary of his policies.  In Warren, 61, Obama chose a longtime consumer advocate and
Wall Street watchdog who is a favorite of Democratic activists.
She’ll take on the job as an assistant to the president at the
same time as Obama’s political advisers are trying to position
Democrats as champions of the middle class, less than two months
before congressional elections.  Volcker’s experience in the White House, where he’s at
times had to push for influence over policy in competition with
National Economic Council Director  Lawrence Summers  and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , may offer a blueprint for Warren, as
well as raise questions about how much sway she ultimately will
have.  “Warren is playing the role that’s similar to the role
that Paul Volcker played, in that she’s a hugely important
symbolic figure,” said  Dean Baker , co-director of the Center
for  Economic and Policy Research  in Washington. “In both cases
they have no formal power, so they can make recommendations
which the president and Secretary Geithner can take or leave as
they find appropriate.”  Volcker’s Expertise  To be sure, Warren, who will be on the government payroll,
doesn’t bring the same hefty resume as Volcker. Even at 83, the
6-foot 7-inch former Fed chair remains one of the most respected
American experts on the economy.  While Volcker has at times been sidelined by policy
differences with other Obama advisers, he’s been brought out at
key points over the last 20 months to bolster the president’s
policy decisions.  Earlier this year, amid rising public anger at Wall Street,
Obama had Volcker at his side when he announced he was adopting
the “Volcker Rule” as part of his financial regulatory
 overhaul  plan.  Volcker didn’t know the rule would be named for him until
the president said it, according to a person familiar with the
matter. The working title during White House deliberations was
“Restricting Certain Bank Activities.”  As Volcker envisioned it, the provision would have banned
banks from running private-equity and hedge funds. What emerged
from Congress was a provision of the law that allows banks to
contribute up to 3 percent of the equity in such funds.  Volcker told associates that he was disappointed with the
final version, saying it diluted his original proposal.  Question of Influence  “Just as Volcker was involved, but his architecture was
not allowed to prevail, one has to be concerned that Elizabeth
Warren is an advertisement for political emphasis on the middle
class that won’t be ultimately embodied in the product,” said
Robert Johnson, director of the Economic Policy Initiative of
the  Roosevelt Institute  in New York.  Like Volcker, Warren is taking on an advisory role tailored
for her. Obama named her on Sept. 17 to be a special adviser to
Geithner, leading a panel that will build the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, and an assistant to the president.  Warren can carry the message that the administration is
seeking to deliver amid voter concern about the economy and the
9.6 percent  unemployment rate . When he announced the
appointment, Obama said she is “ a janitor’s daughter who has
become one of the country’s fiercest advocates for the middle
class.”  Avoiding Fight  The appointment allowed Obama to avoid a protracted and
divisive confirmation battle that would have followed a
nomination of the Harvard University law professor to head the
new bureau.  Warren, who is credited with conceiving the idea of a
consumer agency, was the chairwoman of the congressional panel
overseeing the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Her criticism of
firms such as  Citigroup Inc.  and  American International Group
Inc.  won her celebrity status among consumer advocates and
prompted business lobbyists and Republican lawmakers to question
whether she could be an unbiased overseer of consumer
protections.  White House spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  said “there is no more
powerful role” than that which Warren will play setting up and
staffing the bureau.  “The unacceptable alternative would have been to sideline
the architect of the agency for months through a confirmation
battle at a time when passionate leadership at the helm was
essential,” Psaki said.  Warren said she never really wanted the job of heading the
bureau.  Start Immediately  “I had this idea for this agency and thought, ‘That’s it.
You know, other people will take care of it,’” she said in a
Sept. 21  interview  with CBS’s “Early Show.” “The president
asked me to come here and start to work immediately, not to
worry about titles.”  Warren’s role in the administration is more formal than
that of Volcker, who is an unpaid adviser and heads a panel that
isn’t set up to administer or make policy. Still, she’ll have to
rely on Geithner, with whom she has sparred in the past, to sign
off on her recommendations, Baker said.  “She’s in this vaguely surreal world where she has no
formal power,” Baker said. “Maybe the administration would be
listening to her recommendations over the next six weeks, but
after that, do we know that they’ll continue to take her as
seriously?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  