-- Wash Trading in Sub-$1 Stocks Hurting Market Makers, Knight Capital Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-09-24T20:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/wash-trading-in-sub-1-stocks-hurting-market-makers-knight-capital-says.html
A strategy that enables individuals
to profit by trading low-priced stocks with themselves is
damaging market makers, according to  Jamil Nazarali , global head
of electronic trading at  Knight Capital Group Inc.   Knight and four other market-making firms met with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s division of trading and
markets yesterday to discuss the practice, Nazarali said. They
say the tactic enables traders to seek profits in low-priced
stocks by collecting rebates for orders provided to markets for
other investors to trade against.  The complaint comes amid a growing debate about how to
oversee trading on 11 separate U.S. equity exchanges -- venues
dominated by electronic market makers and firms providing bids
and offers who are usually paid to supply liquidity. Knight has
spoken with the New York-based Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversees almost 4,700 brokers, and asked the
Treasury Department to investigate.  “We see this all the time,” said Nazarali. “It’s
damaging but it’s really hard to go after. There are days when
our firm has spent tens of thousands of dollars on fees on a
single stock because of these wash sales.”  Using the strategy Nazarali described, a trader can send a
so-called limit-order bid to an exchange through one broker and
a separate market order to sell shares through another firm,
expecting to take both sides of the trade, known as a wash sale.
The trader purchases 100,000 shares through a broker who passes
along to its customers the exchange’s fees and rebates for
trading on its market, earning about $250 because the venue pays 
fo liquidity. He pays the discount broker a commission to sell 
the stock, pocketing the difference.  Arbitrage Game  “There’s arbitrage gaming going on,” said  William Karsh ,
chief operating officer at Direct Edge Holdings LLC in Jersey
City, New Jersey. The company, which operates two stock
exchanges, changed the trading fees it charges for securities
trading below $1 to discourage the tactic, he said.  Some of the individuals or firms engaging in the practice
are outside the U.S., making it harder for regulators to pursue
them, Nazarali said. They also use multiple brokers and accounts
to mask their activity he said.  CBOE Stock Exchange, or CBSX, which offers rebates for
securities priced less than $1, is a market where the practice
may be happening, Nazarali said. CBSX is operated by CBOE
Holdings Inc. in Chicago.  “All other exchanges have realized this is a really big
problem,” Nazarali said. The largest exchanges have altered the
fees they charge for securities less than $1 to make the
practice harder to employ, he said.  Gail Osten , a spokeswoman at CBOE, said the company “takes
its regulatory responsibility very seriously and does
investigate unusual trading activity. However, we do not comment
on individual investigations.”  The practice “is something every exchange needs to be aware
of from a surveillance standpoint,” said Jeromee Johnson, vice
president at Bats Global Markets in Kansas City, Missouri. Bats
monitors trading to ensure the practice doesn’t occur on Bats
Exchange, he said. “It’s something we’ve seen take place on
other exchanges in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 