-- Wealthy Tap Into `Pockets of Opportunity' With World Bonds, MBS
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2010-09-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/wealthy-tap-into-pockets-of-opportunity-for-yield-with-global-bonds-mbs.html
Robert J. Frey , a former managing
director at hedge-fund firm Renaissance Technologies Corp., is
trying to preserve his wealth by taking on moderate risk and
investing in international bonds.  “You have to branch out now and be opportunistic in this
low-rate environment,” said Frey, 56, who runs Frey
Quantitative Strategies, an asset-management firm, and splits
his time between London and Port Jefferson, New York. “But you
can’t be overconfident and take on unacceptable levels of risk
to hit home runs.”  For U.S. investors looking for yield, advisers are
recommending investments in international bonds, non-agency
residential mortgage-backed securities, bank loans and master
limited partnerships. They may offer investors yields ranging
from 6 percent to 10 percent.  Since these investments are complex and come with liquidity
and credit risks, they’re most appropriate for high-net-worth
investors who work with experienced managers, according to  Alan Zafran , co-founder of Los Angeles-based Luminous Capital, an
investment advisory firm that manages $3.5 billion for about 250
families.  These “pockets of opportunity” are integral to a
portfolio now because the more traditional ways of maintaining
wealth, including U.S. fixed-income investments, money-market
funds and savings accounts have such low rates, Zafran said.  ‘Going Backward’  U.S. 10-year notes, which fell to a 19-month low of 2.42
percent Aug. 25, were yielding 2.56 percent as of Sept. 23 and
2-year notes were yielding 0.42 percent, according to BGCantor
Market Data.  Money-market funds, which are sold by brokerage firms and
aren’t backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., were
averaging  0.04 percent  as of Sept. 21, based on data from
iMoneyNet Inc., a research firm in Westborough, Massachusetts,
which tracks money funds.  The average interest paid on savings, checking, money-
market and certificate of deposit accounts fell to 0.99 percent
in July, the first dip below 1 percent in a decade, and declined
to 0.92 percent in August, according to researcher Market Rates
Insight in San Anselmo, California.  That means some investors are being pushed out of their
comfort zones “to counteract the motion of the train that is
holding their cash going backward,” even if they’re still
scarred by losses from 2008, said  Michael Sonnenfeldt , a founder
of Tiger 21, which is a New York-based peer learning group of
140 members, most of whom have a net worth of at least $10
million.   Interest rates won’t rise until a year from now, which
makes these investments attractive in the longer term to
investors willing to accept the credit risks, said  John Lonski ,
chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in New York.  Dollar Hedge  For Frey, the former hedge fund managing director, bonds
from Norway, New Zealand, Canada and Brazil denominated in
foreign currencies offer attractive yields as well as a hedge
against the U.S. dollar. He said he prefers bonds from countries
that have good debt to gross domestic product ratios and are
commodity-based economies.  Retail investors may have to pay more than institutions for
the bonds and currency conversions when purchasing the bonds
directly, so they should invest in funds with strong performance
records, such as the  Templeton Global Bond Fund , which has
returned 11 percent this year, said Zafran of Luminous Capital.
 T. Rowe Price U.S. Treasury Intermediate Fund  has returned 9.9
percent this year.  U.S. investors added $2.65 billion to world bond funds in
August compared with $2.21 billion in July and emerging market
bond funds had $1.11 billion in inflows, based on  data  from
Chicago-based research firm Morningstar Inc.  Brazil Bonds  Some Brazil and  Australia  bonds are attractive because
those countries’ currencies should appreciate longer term
against the U.S. dollar, said Charles Ryan, a partner and
portfolio manager at New York-based Evercore Wealth Management
LLC, which buys individual bonds directly for clients’
portfolios. Evercore Wealth Management is a subsidiary of
investment bank Evercore Partners Inc.  International bonds generally comprise as much as 15
percent of the overall 50 percent allocation of clients’
portfolios to bonds, said Ryan, whose firm has about $2 billion
in assets under management. He said they select bonds that
typically have maturities of 4 years to 5 years and are yielding
from 7 percent to 9 percent.  Non-Agency Opportunities  The $1.4 trillion  market  for non-agency mortgage
securities, which lack guarantees from government-supported
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac or the federal agency Ginnie Mae,
offers yields of 6 percent to 10 percent after projected losses,
according to a Sept. 17 note by JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts.  Although there are significant credit and liquidity risks,
the inefficiency in the market creates opportunities for
skillful managers, said  Darell Krasnoff , managing director of
Bel Air Investment Advisors in Los Angeles, who counsels clients
with at least $20 million in investable assets.  The best way for investors to buy non-agency debt is by
investing with a manager in a fund that is buying these
securities such as Angelo Gordon & Co. in New York or San Juan
Capistrano, California-based Rimrock Capital Management LLC, and
they should focus on bonds with durations of no more than three
years, said Zafran of Luminous Capital.  Agency mortgage-backed securities  aren’t as attractive
because of lower yields. They’re also more likely to be affected
by government policies on standards for refinancing by
homeowners, which could make agency bond prices decline, Zafran
said.  25% Return  Further Lane Securities offers managed accounts investing
in these securities for high-net-worth investors that contain a
mix of high-grade residential mortgage-backed securities and
lower credit issues, according to  Jim Midanek , portfolio manager
and head of research for the New York-based firm. The accounts
have returned 25 percent since November 2009, Midanek said.  Los Angeles-based TCW Group Inc. also offers investors non-
agency mortgage-backed securities through separate accounts and
other investments including the  TCW Total Return Bond Fund ,
which allocates about 35 percent to this type of investment. The
fund’s N share for retail investors has returned 9.7 percent
this year and has a minimum investment of $2,000 and an expense
ratio of 0.74 percent.  Interest Rate Hedge  Leveraged loans, which are syndicated business loans to
non-investment grade borrowers, are generally floating rate
securities with maturities of 5 years to 7 years. If properly
managed, they can offer investors about 6.5 percent yield, said
 Sam Katzman , chief investment officer of Constellation Wealth
Advisors in New York, whose clients have a minimum of $10
million in investable assets. The loans are typically secured by
all of the assets of the company.  Inflows to bank loan funds, which are pools of short-term
leveraged loans, were $432 million in August, Morningstar said.
They provide an interest rate hedge because if rates move
higher, the coupon also will increase. Prices on many of the
loan portfolios have remained stable, and typically account for
3 percent to 5 percent of an investor’s portfolio at Evercore,
Ryan said.  Eaton Vance Floating Rate Fund , which has returned 5.7
percent this year and comes with a sales fee of 2.25 percent and
expense ratio of 1.12 percent, and  Fidelity Floating Rate High
Income Fund , which has returned 4.4 percent and has a 0.75
percent expense ratio, are the top fund picks in this category
by Morningstar.  Pipeline Investments  Master limited partnerships typically are organized around
energy and natural resources. They invest in assets ranging from
pipelines to ships transporting commodities and are traded on
exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq. The
yield on the  Alerian MLP Index , composed of about 50 of the 90
publicly traded partnerships, is about 6 percent.  Investors are pouring into energy-related MLPs, increasing
their market capitalization 20 percent as of July to $183
billion from $152 billion in 2009, said  Michael Blum , a managing
director at Wells Fargo Securities, a unit of San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo & Co.  The yields, quarterly distributions, which are similar to
stock dividends, and tax-deferrals on most of the income
received make them attractive to wealthy investors. The benefits
of investing in these partnerships coupled with low interest
rates has made the space “somewhat overcrowded leaving us very
selective,” said Ryan of Evercore.  Risks of investing in MLPs include a lack of liquidity
because a few trade below 100,000 units a day, said  Mark Easterbrook , a Dallas-based analyst with RBC Capital Markets
Corp., who covers the group. Another is share volatility,
especially partnerships whose income relies on commodity prices
rather than fee-based contracts for transporting them.  Hunkering Down  “I think people are making a mistake in how they’re trying
to be defensive and only staying in high-quality munis and
Treasuries,” said Krasnoff of Bel Air Investment Advisors.
“They think they can hunker down and be safe, but they may get
a big surprise when they see the purchasing power of their
wealth declines because of dollar deterioration.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Leondis  in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 