-- Wheat Crop in Australia May Increase on Record Production in Eastern Areas
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-09-24T08:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/wheat-crop-in-australia-may-increase-on-record-production-in-eastern-areas.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
increased its wheat output forecast for the country by 4 percent
as a record harvest in eastern areas may make up for crop losses
in the west because of dry weather.  Production may gain to 23.1 million metric tons from 21.4
million tons last year and up from a July estimate of 22.2
million tons, the bank said in an e-mailed report. Exports in
2010-2011 may rise to 17 million tons from at least 15 million
tons this season, it estimated.  La Nina weather conditions have brought increased rain to
Australia’s eastern states, raising crop production forecasts
and driving  cattle  prices to the highest level in four years.
The wheat crop may be the third-largest on record, according to
the federal government’s commodities forecaster.  “Our improved production numbers reflect record-breaking
yield prospects across most regions in eastern Australia,”  Luke Mathews , commodities strategist at Commonwealth Bank, wrote in
the report. Key risks to the eastern harvest included locusts,
crop-disease damage, frosts or a heat wave, he said.  December-delivery wheat advanced 1.3 percent to $7.0525 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 6:47 p.m. Melbourne time,
taking the weekly loss to 4.7 percent, the most for the most-
active contract since the week ended June 4.  Australian wheat production may increase to 25.1 million
tons this harvest and exports may rise to 18.4 million tons, the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural & Resource Economics-Bureau of
Rural Sciences forecast Sept. 14.  Export Outlook  Exports could be curbed if there were any significant
logistics problems in the east or if the Western Australia crop
continued to deteriorate, potentially challenging the state’s
record low of 4 million tons, the bank said.  Damage from past locust plagues was generally less than 1
percent of the total output and the worst damage was in 1934-35
when losses were forecast at 2 percent to percent, the bank said.  “This would hardly put a dent in our record crop forecast,
and technology to control locusts in the 1930s is hardly
comparable to what is available today,” Mathews said.  “Although we do expect reports of damage due to locusts
over the next month, which may include the complete wipe-out of
some individual paddocks, we don’t expect an Armageddon-like
impact on the entire east coast crop.”  Wet weather in Australia’s east this year reflects warm
conditions in the Indian Ocean and cool temperatures in the
equatorial Pacific Ocean, both associated with a La Nina event,
the Bureau of Meteorology  said  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wendy Pugh at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net  