-- Wheat Advances on Concern Rainfall May Damage Canadian Harvest; Corn Gains
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-09-24T13:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/wheat-advances-on-concern-rainfall-may-damage-canadian-harvest-corn-drops.html
Wheat gained in Chicago, reducing
the biggest weekly slide in more than four months, on concern
that rain may damage crops in Canada and come too late in parts
of Russia for successful planting.  December-delivery wheat rose 0.9 percent to $7.0325 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:14 p.m. Paris time.
The grain has slipped 4.9 percent this week, the largest drop
for the most-active contract since the week ended May 14.  Harvesting in Saskatchewan, Canada’s largest wheat-growing
province, trailed the five-year average as of Sept. 20 because
of “significant” rainfall, the government said. In Russia,
rain expected this week may be too late for planting of winter
grains, farm-weather forecaster Martell Crop Projections said.  “The Canadian issue is a big concern for availability of
high-quality milling wheat,”  Doug Whitehead , an analyst at
Rabobank in London, said by phone. Russia is “getting toward
the end of the winter-wheat planting window, and without
meaningful rains, it looks increasingly like a large part of the
area won’t be planted.”  Wheat has risen 30 percent in Chicago this year as drought
in Russia slashed grain production. The country will harvest 42
million metric tons of wheat this year, compared with 61.7
million tons in 2009-10, the International Grains Council said
yesterday, cutting its month-ago estimate by 2 tons.  Too Little Time  Showers predicted this week in the Volga River valley would
be three weeks late and give the crop too little time to attain
winter hardiness before dormancy, according to  Martell .  “Russia winter-grain planting conditions have not improved
much in the Black Sea wheat area,” it said in a Sept. 23
report. “Planting wheat now would be very risky, setting the
stage for a large die-off from harsh winter conditions.”  Milling wheat traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris dropped 1.9
percent to 219 euros ($294.45) a ton. The euro climbed 1 percent
to $1.3447, nearing a five-month high and making wheat exports
from the European Union more expensive compared with U.S. grain.  Half of Russian winter-grain plantings failed to sprout or
are thin, the national Grain Producers’ Union said today.  “We still see the fundamentals as bullish,” Whitehead
said. “The Russian issue is looking increasingly like it could
be a multi-year issue.”  In Saskatchewan, harvests of crops including wheat, barley
and canola were 18 percent complete as of Sept. 20, behind the
five-year average of 65 percent, the government said in a  report 
yesterday. Frost affected growing areas on Sept. 17 and 18, it
said.  Crop Quality  “Rain potentially reduces the overall quality” of the
grain,  Michael Pitts , commodity sales director at National
Australia Bank Ltd., said by phone from Sydney. “We may have
disease problems as well.”  Corn for December delivery climbed 1.3 percent to $5.0575 a
bushel in Chicago, trimming the weekly loss to 1.5 percent.  World corn stockpiles will fall to a four-year low of 131
million tons at the end of 2010-11, 4 million tons below last
month’s forecast, on reduced  estimates  for output in the U.S.
and Ukraine, the council said yesterday.  The global crop will be a record 824 million tons, smaller
than the 829 million tons predicted last month, the council
said.  November-delivery soybeans rose 0.7 percent to $11.01 a
bushel, taking the weekly gain to 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  