-- Yale's Endowment Gains 8.9% for Smallest Return Among Ivy League Schools
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-09-24T19:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/yale-s-endowment-gains-8-9-for-smallest-return-among-ivy-league-schools.html
Yale University, whose endowment
strategy is a model for U.S. schools, said its investments rose
8.9 percent, trailing Harvard University and the three other Ivy
League funds that have reported returns for the past year.  The endowment’s value increased 2.5 percent to $16.7
billion as of June 30, including $136 million in donations and
$1.1 billion in distributions to the New Haven, Connecticut,
university, according to a  letter  posted today on its website.
The fund peaked at $22.9 billion in June 2008 before plunging 25
percent in the next 12 months.  Yale, the second-richest school after Harvard of Cambridge,
Massachusetts, was hampered by a second straight year of losses
on real estate, timber and oil and gas holdings. Its return
lagged behind Harvard’s, whose $27.4 billion endowment rose 11
percent, as well as those reported this month by Columbia
University in New York, the University of Pennsylvania in
Philadelphia and Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire.  “Private equity, venture, real estate, real assets are
going to be a drag on some of the endowments that have
substantial portions invested there,” said  Stewart Massey ,
chief investment officer at Massey, Quick & Co. in Morristown,
New Jersey, which manages $1.7 billion on behalf of endowments,
foundations and wealthy families. “They may continue to be a
drag for a year or two.”  David Swensen , Yale’s chief investment officer, pioneered
an investing style that helped endowments beat market indexes by
relying on such hard-to-sell assets.  Yale Model  Swensen’s guiding principle, outlined in his 2000 book
“Pioneering Portfolio Management: An Unconventional Approach to
Institutional Investment,” is that the best stock and bond
pickers don’t outperform bottom-rated managers by much -- and
the biggest performance gap comes in “less efficient” markets
such as real assets and private equity. Those assets don’t move
lock-step with stock and bond markets and therefore protect
against losses when public markets decline, he wrote.  Swensen, 56, declined to comment.  Yale reported an average annual return of 8.9 percent in
the decade through June. That beat Harvard’s 7 percent increase
and the 3.4 percent median gain of public and corporate
pensions, endowments and foundations tracked by Wilshire
Associates, a consulting firm in Santa Monica, California.  Yale isn’t changing its investment strategy, said President
 Richard Levin .  Long-Term Confidence  “If you look back 10 years or 20 years, we still seem to
have the strongest performance out of all our peers,” Levin,
63, said in an interview today. “For the long term, we’re
sticking with our strategy of a diversified portfolio that’s
relatively heavy in illiquid assets, where we think we can earn
larger-than-normal returns over a long period of time. We’re
confident that will be true in the long run.”  Yale’s investments in real assets -- real estate, energy
and timber -- lost 4.5 percent in the past year. The category,
which makes up 28 percent of the fund, declined 34 percent in
the previous year.  Private-equity holdings, Yale’s biggest asset class at 33
percent of the fund, returned 18 percent. Absolute-return stakes
including hedge funds, the endowment’s third-biggest group of
holdings at 19 percent, rose 12 percent. The university’s U.S.
and foreign stocks gained 21 percent and 15 percent.  “While real assets provide protection against inflation,
which may prove beneficial in today’s highly uncertain global
economy, in weak economic environments real assets tend to
produce poor returns,” the university said in the statement.  Columbia, Penn  The Ivy League consists of eight selective private schools
in the northeastern U.S. Columbia’s $6.5 billion endowment
jumped 17 percent in the past year, while Penn said today its
$5.7 billion fund gained 13 percent. Dartmouth today reported a
10 percent return for its $3 billion fund. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  of stocks rose 12 percent in the year ended June 30.  Cornell University in Ithaca, New York, Princeton
University in New Jersey and Brown University in Providence,
Rhode Island, have yet to report their endowment results.  None of the Ivy League schools have recouped the record
losses incurred in the year ended June 30, 2009. The bankruptcy
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 crippled
financial markets. As investments tumbled, universities cut
jobs, froze salaries and postponed building projects.  At least 15 private nonprofit colleges and universities
sold bonds to raise cash after the credit collapse, including
six of eight Ivy League schools, according to reports from
Moody’s Investors Service. They borrowed $7.2 billion, costing
them about $360 million a year in interest, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 