-- Yen Weakens on Speculation Japan Is Intervening to Curb Gains
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-09-24T17:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/yen-weakens-on-speculation-japan-is-intervening-to-curb-gains.html
The dollar headed for a weekly loss
against all of its major counterparts as orders for U.S. capital
equipment rebounded and German business confidence improved,
fueling demand for higher-yielding assets.  The euro touched its strongest level against the greenback
since April and its highest level against the yen since August
as the economic slowdown may be less severe than economists
thought. The Swiss franc touched a record high against the U.S.
currency and the Australian dollar reached the strongest level
since July 2008.  “The worst of the risk aversion is behind us; the dollar
is on the back foot,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing
director for the foreign-exchange group in Boston at Bank of New
York Mellon. “The euro is benefitting as a safety valve because
you have dollar weakness across the board and you’ve also got
the policy makers in Japan trying to limit yen strength.”  The dollar fell 1.2 percent against the euro to $1.3475 at
1:31 p.m. in New York, from $1.3314 yesterday. The shared
currency touched the highest level against the dollar since
April 20, when it reached $1.3493. The yen slid 1.2 percent to
113.66 per euro, from 112.35 yesterday. Japan’s currency traded
at 84.35 per dollar, compared with 84.38, after sliding to
85.40.  Stocks, Gold  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.9 percent. Gold
futures for December delivery rose as much as $5 to a record
$1,301.30 an ounce before trading at $1,297 an ounce.  “Gold’s become the hot topic in the markets,” said  Blake Jespersen , director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of
Montreal. “With the dollar bears having their way these days,
it makes sense to buy gold.  Orders  for U.S. capital equipment rebounded in August,
signaling a slowdown in business investment may be less severe
than some economists projected. Bookings for goods excluding the
transportation sector rose 2 percent, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today. That compares with the median forecast
of 1 percent from 48 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Europe’s common currency appreciated as the Munich-based
 Ifo  institute said its business climate index, based on a survey
of 7,000 executives, increased this month to 106.8, the highest
since June 2007, from 106.7 in August. The median forecast of 36
analysts in Bloomberg News survey was for a drop to 106.4.  ‘A Little Better’  “With Ifo and durable goods a little better there’s a
little bit of risk appetite coming to the market,” said  Carl Forcheski,  a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in New York.  The Swiss franc gained as much as 0.7 percent to 97.86
centimes per dollar, matching the strongest since the beginning
of data in 1971. The Swiss currency was later at 98.50 centimes.
The euro strengthened 1.2 percent to 1.3275 euro per franc.  The yen slid as much as 1.1 percent against the dollar in
the biggest intraday decline since the Bank of Japan intervened
on Sept. 15 before erasing the drop as traders speculated
whether Japan sold the currency to protect exporters.  Japanese government officials declined to comment on
whether Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s administration had intervened
in the currency market today.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  publicly confirmed the
Sept. 15 move within minutes of the start of the yen sales,
which are ordered by his ministry and conducted by the Bank of
Japan. Noda earlier today reiterated the government’s pledge to
take “bold” action if needed.  China Trade  The yuan weakened today for the first time in a week to
6.69. The currency has strengthened about 2 percent against the
dollar since June when the Chinese government ended a two-year
peg.  The U.S. House Ways and Means Committee today approved
legislation letting companies petition for duties on Chinese
imports to make up for a weak currency that lawmakers say
creates an unfair subsidy.  President  Barack Obama  pressed China’s Premier Wen Jiabao
in a two-hour meeting at the United Nations yesterday to
increase the yuan’s value. Wen said this week that a 20 percent
rise in the currency would cause severe job losses and trigger
social instability in China.  Norway’s krone advanced 1.2 percent to 5.8887 versus the
dollar and Australia’s currency gained 1.1 percent to 95.90 U.S.
cents as the gain in equities encouraged trades in which
investors get funds in a country with low borrowing costs and
buy assets where returns are higher.  The target lending rate of zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S.
makes the dollar popular for funding such transactions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  