-- NBC's Zucker to Leave When Comcast Completes Takeover
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-09-24T23:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/zucker-to-leave-as-nbc-chief-after-comcast-takes-control-of-media-company.html
NBC Universal Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Zucker  will step down once  Comcast Corp. 
completes its takeover of the company as the new owners move to
reshape management.  Zucker, 45, told employees in a memo today of his departure
from the company where he has spent his entire working career.
Parent  General Electric Co.  also announced the decision in an
internal memo.  From executive producer of the “Today” show at age 26,
Zucker rose to oversee all of NBC Universal by 2007 -- the
broadcast network, the Universal Pictures film studio, theme
parks and cable channels such as Bravo. His tenure was marred by
falling ratings at NBC, which failed to develop new hits as
popular shows like “Friends” left the air. His decision to put
comedian  Jay Leno  in prime time backfired.  “Intellectually I’m fine and I get it and I’m very much at
peace,” Zucker said in an interview. “Emotionally, it’s very
hard.”  Zucker said he doesn’t know what his future plans will be
and in the interview mentioned interests in sports, business and
politics.  “You can’t spend 24 and a half years in one place, you
can’t spend more than half your life in one place, and not feel
an emotional attachment,” Zucker said. “Not waking up every
day and walking into 30 Rock will be a very hard thing.”  Transition  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable operator, is expected to
complete its purchase of 51 percent of NBC Universal by year
end, GE CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  said in the memo.  Zucker will spend the next few months focused on ensuring a
smooth transition to the new leadership team, Immelt, 54, said
in his statement.  “I have said many times how much I admire Jeff’s
leadership of NBCU,” Immelt said. “Jeff has been a tough-
minded, inclusive and innovative leader of NBC Universal. He has
always stepped up when the company needed him. He never blinked
when it came to tough decisions.”  Zucker said he won’t seek a job at GE.  “GE has been an incredible steward of this company and
supporter of mine,” Zucker said. “Nobody has been as good to
me as Jeff Immelt, but I’m better at producing than aviation.”  Zucker’s departure was predictable,  Larry Haverty ,
portfolio manager at Rye, New York-based Gamco Investors Inc.,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  “ Jeff Zucker  had some very visible problems, the biggest
one being the decision to go with Jay Leno, which basically
relegated NBC to the basement,” he said.  Burke Successor?  Stephen Burke , Comcast Corp.’s chief operating officer, is
expected to succeed Zucker, CNBC’s  David Faber  reported, citing
people he didn’t identify. CNBC is a unit of NBC Universal.
 D’Arcy Rudnay , a spokeswoman for Comcast, declined to comment on
possible successors.  “Comcast has an extraordinarily qualified individual in
Steve Burke,” Haverty said. “This is what he has been
preparing for most of his business career.”  Zucker said it became increasingly clear during the summer
that Comcast wanted to install its own management, and that even
if he stayed there would be far less autonomy. Two weeks ago,
Zucker said Burke told him in a meeting that they wanted him to
leave when the transaction was complete.  After the meeting, Zucker began negotiating his exit with
GE, he said. An agreement was reached yesterday, and therefore
the announcement was made today.  3-Year Contract  Zucker’s three-year employment contract, reported in a June
regulatory filing, calls for about $19.6 million plus additional
payments based on performance goals were he to exit before its
end. Zucker and GE spokesman  Gary Sheffer  declined to comment.  “The success of NBC Universal puts us in a wonderful
position as we plan for our joint venture with GE,”  Brian Roberts , chairman and CEO of Comcast, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We wish Jeff well in his future endeavors.”  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, gained 52 cents, or
3.2 percent, to $16.66 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . Comcast, based in Philadelphia, advanced 65
cents, or 3.6 percent, to $18.57 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  “Comcast will be a great new steward, just as GE has been,
and they deserve the chance to implement their own vision,”
Zucker said in his memo.  Weather Channel  In 2007, Zucker succeeded  Bob Wright , who helped create
MSNBC and CNBC and merged NBC with Paris-Based Vivendi SA’s
Universal studios. That same year Zucker hired TV producer  Ben Silverman  as chief of NBC Entertainment. Silverman left two
years later.  In 2008, Zucker presided over the $3.5 billion purchase of
the Weather Channel with private-equity partners Bain Capital
LLC and Blackstone Group LP. At the end of that year, he pared
500 jobs across NBC Universal as advertising sales fell.  A Harvard College graduate with a bachelor’s degree in
American History, Zucker started as a researcher in 1986 for NBC
Sports’ coverage of the 1988 Seoul Olympics. By age 26, he was
executive producer of the “Today” show and ascended to head
NBC’s Los Angeles entertainment division in 2000.  The network fell to second place in prime time in the 2002-
2003 season, according to Nielsen Co. data. NBC has since
dropped further in the ratings, failing to find new hits to
replace “Seinfeld,” “Friends,” and “E.R.,” the shows that
contributed to its success in the 1990s and early 2000s.  ‘Tonight Show’ Trouble  Zucker became president of the entertainment, news and
cable group in 2003. In 2004, he was promoted to lead NBC
Universal’s TV group.  That year, he designated  Conan O’Brien  as  Jay Leno ’s
successor at “The Tonight Show,” a move that eventually took
place in June 2009. As the change approached, Zucker offered
Leno a prime-time show on weeknights at 10 p.m. to keep the
talk-show host from defecting to another network. The move was
also designed to reduce expenses by replacing dramas with a
cheaper program.  The plan backfired by cutting the 11 p.m. audience for
local news and sparking protests from NBC’s affiliate TV
stations. NBC moved Leno back to “The Tonight Show” at 11:35
p.m. O’Brien left in January with a $33 million payout for
himself and $12 million for his staff, a person with knowledge
of the situation said in January.  “I wish I’d moved more quickly to fix NBC,” Zucker said.  In a Jan. 18 interview with  Charlie Rose , Zucker said the
experiment hadn’t been successful for NBC’s affiliates.  “It’s the sign of a leader to step up and say, you know,
when something’s not working to have the guts to say let’s
reverse it,” Zucker said. “Leadership is about taking chances
and taking risks, and also leadership is about acknowledging
when they don’t work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 