-- Booker's $100 Million Facebook Gift Won't End `Tough Time' for Newark
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-09-24T19:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-24/zuckerberg-s-100-million-gift-won-t-end-tough-time-for-newark-s-booker.html
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  was in
Chicago today for “The Oprah Winfrey Show,” where Facebook
Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  donated $100
million to the city’s schools. Back home, the financial picture
wasn’t so bright.  Booker this week advanced plans to balance his municipal
budget by firing 860 city workers on Nov. 12 and selling 21
buildings including police headquarters and the 85-year-old
 Symphony Hall  to two public agencies. Booker, 41, mayor of  New
Jersey’s  largest city since 2006, needs to bridge an $83 million
gap in the budget that runs through Dec. 31.  “You get one piece of good news, and you get three or four
pieces of bad news,”  William Dressel , executive director of the
New Jersey League of Municipalities, said today. “It’s a tough
time being a mayor.”  Local governments in the U.S. may cut as many as 500,000
jobs over the next 18 months as they cope with fallout from the
most severe recession since the 1930s, the Washington-based
National League of Cities said in a July report. Seven in 10
city officials indicated they are cutting staff to cope with the
loss of property-tax revenue, the group said.  Under Booker’s plan, the Essex County Improvement Authority
and the Newark Parking Authority would issue $101 million in
long-term bonds to pay the city $55 million for the buildings,
according to documents released today by the state.  ‘Challenging Period’  “Newark’s city budget, like others across the country, is
going through a challenging period,” Booker, a Democrat, said
in a conference call today after appearing on  “Oprah”  with
Zuckerberg and Republican Governor  Chris Christie .  The mayor said the $605 million municipal budget and that
of the city’s 39,000-student school district, about $940
million, are separate and that one won’t weigh down the other.
He estimated that Newark can be placed on solid fiscal ground
within two years.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the general-obligation debt
for the city of 280,000 at A2, five levels above investment
grade. The rating has been on review for a possible downgrade
since Aug. 13 because of the budget problems.  Separately, the state Division of Pensions and Benefits
released figures today showing Newark’s bill for police, fire
and government worker  pensions  will rise by $8.1 million, to
$58.9 million, in next year’s budget.  Sale Plan Rejected  City Council members in August rejected a plan by Booker to
raise $70 million for the 2010 budget by selling the city’s
water system and related property to a private operator.  Booker had warned that without the funds from that proposed
sale, the city needs to fire workers and impose a property-tax
increase of 35 cents per $100 of assessed value. In 2009 the
total property tax rate for city, school and county government
in Newark was $2.74 per $100, according to the state  Treasury
Department .  The building sale plan will require a 6-cent-per-$100
property tax increase to cover lease payments on the sold
buildings of about $6.5 million a year through 2030, documents
submitted to the state’s Local Finance Board show.  Besides the 2,750-seat Symphony Hall, which is valued at
$6.9 million, the city has proposed selling the Improvement
Authority its $28.7 million police headquarters and courthouse,
its Fire Department headquarters, eight firehouses and five city
office buildings, the plan filed with the state shows.  Bond Sales  The city also proposes to sell a 586-space parking garage
at the Newark Legal Center to the Parking Authority. The agency
would raise $10 million for the purchase by selling 30-year
bonds, documents submitted to the finance board show.  Interest on the two bond deals would total $66 million,
about $11 million more than the money the deals will generate
for this year’s budget support, the documents show.  Details of the building sale, which Booker proposed in
August, were released today by the finance board, which is
scheduled to consider the proposal at its regular meeting Oct.
13. A letter approving the firing plan was released today by the
state Civil Service Commission.  Booker, like other mayors, has no choice but to pursue such
“dramatic” budget strategies, Dressel said.  “He’s not thinking outside the box; he basically stepped
on the box,” he said. “To me it’s doing what he has to do in
these times.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol in Trenton , New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net ;
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ; 