-- TCI, Odey Hedge Funds Sign Up to Code After Lawmaker Scrutiny
-- Tom Cahill
-- 2009-03-30T12:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-03-30/tci-odey-hedge-funds-sign-up-to-code-after-lawmaker-scrutiny.html

          
          
             Christopher Cooper-Hohn’s The
Children’s Investment Fund UK LLP and a dozen other hedge funds
signed up to a code of conduct after lawmakers attacked the
industry for snubbing the initiative.  
 The new members of the Hedge Fund Standards Board also
include Crispin Odey’s Odey Asset Management LLP, the London-
based group said in a statement today. The signatories will
increase the group’s membership to 45.  
 The Board was originally created by managers from  Man Group
Plc (EMG) , GLG Partners and 12 other funds, who proposed its series of
guidelines as regulators threatened to clamp down on the $1.4
trillion industry. U.K. politicians have criticized the industry
as too slow to adopt its own rules, and hedge fund regulation
will be a topic at the G-20 leaders meet in  London  this week.  
 “In the current climate it is essential that the hedge
fund industry demonstrates to regulators and policymakers that
it is adhering to the highest standards by ensuring there are
safeguards in place that would make a Madoff-type scandal very
unlikely,” said  Antonio Borges , chairman of the HFSB, said.  
 Cooper-Hohn and other hedge fund managers were criticized
by a House of Commons Treasury committee meeting on Jan. 27 for
not joining the HFSB in the 12 months since it was founded.  
 “From where I sit that is a dangerous snub to the public
and authorities by your industry,” George Mudie, a Labour
Member of Parliament and committee member, told managers. “If I
were a trade union official on recruitment I would be sacked.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Cahill in London at 
 tcahill@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at   ledelman3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        