-- Cablevision to Buy Newsday After Outbidding Murdoch
-- Gillian Wee
-- 2008-05-12T21:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-05-12/cablevision-to-buy-newsday-after-outbidding-murdoch-correct-.html

          
          
             Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the New
York-area cable provider, topped offers from Rupert Murdoch and
Mortimer Zuckerman to buy Tribune Co.'s Newsday in a deal
valuing the Long Island newspaper at $632 million.  
 Tribune will get $612 million for a 97 percent stake in
Newsday, plus $18 million in prepaid rent for some facilities,
the companies said in a statement today. Tribune will keep a 3
percent stake worth $20 million. The money will help Chicago-
based Tribune manage $13 billion of debt from a leveraged buyout
last year led by Chairman Sam Zell.  
 Cablevision plans to boost profit at Newsday, located 7
miles from the cable operator's Bethpage, New York,
headquarters, by combining advertising and marketing efforts.
Analysts said they're skeptical because spending on newspaper
advertising is moving to the Internet. The stock fell.  
 ``That strategy has been tried and it has flopped'' in
other markets, said Kip Cassino, director of research at
consulting firm Borrell Associates in Williamsburg, Virginia.
``There's nothing to replace the advertisers they're losing.''  
 New York-area newspaper ad revenue will drop 23 percent to
$3.29 billion by 2012, Borrell Associates estimates.  
 Newsday sales fell 13 percent from 2005 to 2007, according
to regulatory filings. Tribune's newspaper group reported an 11
percent first-quarter drop in revenue, led by a 41 percent
decline in housing ads, last week.  
 The newspaper will struggle to keep profit at recent
levels, Cassino said. Newsday earned $80 million last year
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a person
close to the talks said last month.  
 Expansion Concern  
 Cablevision  stock  declined 45 cents, or 1.8 percent, to
$24.52 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading 
and is little changed this year.  
 The gain  is smaller than at cable rivals due to
Cablevision's investments outside of its main business,
according to Richard Greenfield, an analyst at Pali Capital LLC
in New York. Analysts want the company to use cash from its
cable, Internet access and phone services to buy back stock.  
 ``All they seem intent on doing now is making acquisitions
in non-core businesses,'' Greenfield said in an interview today
with Bloomberg Television. He raised his  recommendation  on
Cablevision to ``neutral'' last week after previously suggesting
investors sell the stock.  
 Cablevision said last week that it may make more
acquisitions  beyond cable , after announcing it will buy the
Sundance Channel for independent films.  
 Buyout Offers  
 Shareholders have rebuffed four buyout offers from Chairman
Charles Dolan, 81, and his son, Chief Executive James Dolan, 53,
since 2005, most recently a $36.26 a share bid voted down last
October. James Dolan's effort to shut down the satellite-TV
service Voom led his father to engineer a 2005 boardroom coup.  
 The offer from Cablevision gives Zell a third of the money
he needs to meet payments on $1.85 billion in debt coming due by
next year. His plans to sell assets include the Chicago Cubs
baseball team and its home stadium, Wrigley Field. Tribune is
the second-largest U.S. newspaper publisher after Gannett Co.  
 Murdoch and New York Daily News owner Zuckerman each
offered $580 million for Newsday. Murdoch had planned to combine
printing and distribution with his company's New York Post.  
 Tribune can meet its 2008 and 2009 payments by selling
Newsday, the Cubs and Tribune's 31 percent of cable TV's Food
Network, said Dave Novosel, a bond analyst at Gimme Credit
Publications Inc. in  Chicago .  
 ``They got a little more for the paper than I expected, so
it's good news for Tribune,'' Novosel said.  
 Bond Prices  
 Tribune's 4 7/8 percent notes due in 2010 rose 1 cent on
the dollar to 53 cents, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The 38 percent yield is up from 23 percent at the end of last
year.  
 Zuckerman declined to comment today.  News Corp. (NWSA)  dropped its
offer three days after Chairman Murdoch said talks with Tribune
were at a ``pretty advanced stage.''  
 Cablevision was advised by Banc of America Securities LLC
and Merrill Lynch & Co., as well as Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP
and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP. Tribune was advised by Citigroup
Inc., McDermott Will & Emery, Sidley Austin and Paul Hastings.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Mullaney in New York at 
 Tmullaney1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        