-- Faux White House Intrigue Obscures Deeper Disarray: Albert Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-03-07T16:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-07/faux-white-house-intrigue-obscures-deeper-disarray-albert-hunt.html

          
          
             Late last week, the best topic
for this column seemed to be warfare inside the White
House: dueling op-eds, blogs and articles debated whether
 Rahm Emanuel  was the cause of Barack Obama’s winter of
discontent, or was it that the president and his other top
adviser,  David Axelrod , had ignored the chief of staff’s
sage counsel.  
 More than the war in  Afghanistan  or the fate of health
care or the economy, that was the chatter of Washington.
Several smart people were queried about this juicy stuff.  
 A few hours later, a call: “It’s the love guys.”
Emanuel and Axelrod were on the phone insisting the
friction story reflected small-minded Washington games.  
 “This guy is responsible for all that we’ve done
here; it’s his sheer will,” Axelrod, 55, said of the  chief
of staff . “That character of the brand is essential; David
has been the key,” was the return compliment from Emanuel,
50.  
 It hasn’t been quite that benign. Only a few hours
before the unsolicited call one of the few people close to
both men worried about a “meltdown” at the top level of
the White House.  
 Earlier in the week, the president summoned these top
staff members, according to one second-hand source, to a
combination pep talk and woodshed lecture: We’re sticking
together and we have each other’s back.  
 Actually, the president’s problems are different,
deeper: the inability to fashion a sustainable strategy for
governing, to prioritize the velocity of the issues on the
agenda. Back to that later.  
 Washington  Culture  
 The faux personal feud reveals a lot about the culture
of Washington. Starting with a  blog  last month in The Daily
Beast by Leslie Gelb, an experienced diplomat and
journalist.  
 He declared Obama “desperately needs a sweeping
shakeup,” starting with replacing the management-
challenged Emanuel, ideally with one of former President
 Bill Clinton ’s staff chiefs. The economic team should be
sacked and policy directed by former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , an 82-year-old Obama adviser; the
foreign-policy team should be canned and led by former
National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski, 82.  
 These recommendations resembled less the makings of a
contemporary governing team than a colloquy in the lush,
wood-paneled conference room at the  Council on Foreign
Relations , where the 73-year-old  Gelb  is president
emeritus. Among the few people who paid any attention were
some Emanuel political allies.  
 ‘Rahm at the Top’  
 Soon they hit back via Dana Milbank, a provocative and
often snarky Washington Post columnist, with a piece titled
“Obama Needs Rahm at the Top.” The president is in
trouble because he, and advisers like Axelrod, didn’t
follow Emanuel’s advice on issues ranging from trying
terror suspects in civilian courts to health-care tactics.
This was followed by a news story along similar lines on
the front page of the Post.  
 This is mainly babble. What is unusual about the Gelb
column is that someone so smart could write something so
silly and naive; the Milbank column was a mixture of the
superficial and hyperbole.  
 The real damage, Emanuel and  Axelrod  realize, is to
Obama. Staff differences have little to do with this
president’s problems.  
 He inherited a miserable economic and fiscal
situation, he chose an exceedingly ambitious agenda, and he
faces an opposition party that has no interest in
compromise.  
 Campaign Strategy  
 Yet there is a larger self-created problem for which
Emanuel and Axelrod are only partly to blame. Go back to
the remarkable Obama campaign of 2007-2008. More than any
of its rivals, it had a strategic sense of what it was,
where it wanted to go.  
 This provided a shield against setbacks: losing the
New Hampshire primary, the candidate’s careless remarks
about rural Pennsylvania voters or even the incendiary
remarks of Obama’s pastor. These became speed bumps in the
strategic narrative.  
 That is missing in the Obama presidency. Too often it
seems situational rather than strategic, reactive more than
proactive. Thus setbacks, from minor ones, such as the
handling of the Christmas Day bomber, to major ones, like
the loss of the Senate seat in  Massachusetts , throw team
Obama off stride, and leave voters confused.  
 This is a far larger problem than, for instance,
whether Obama should have listened to his chief of staff
rather than his politically tone-deaf attorney general on
trying the suspected Sept. 11 terrorist mastermind, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, in  New York City . (He should have.)  
 Close Associates  
 Indeed, this is a talented White House staff, starting
with Emanuel and Axelrod. And these two Chicagoans have
been close political associates since helping direct Mayor
 Richard M. Daley ’s first successful campaign in 1989;
Axelrod pushed Emanuel for the White House job.  
 That role isn’t a managerial one; it is to understand
the nexus of politics and policy. The extensive managerial
background of Donald Regan, under  Ronald Reagan , and Mack McLarty, under Clinton, didn’t enable them to succeed. The
Baker boys, Jim and Howard (Reagan) and  John Podesta 
(Clinton), had little managerial expertise and were great
chiefs of staff. Critics would be hard pressed to identify
anyone who better understands that nexus of politics and
policy today than Emanuel.  
 Star Cabinet  
 A more legitimate criticism is the minor role assigned
others. Obama has perhaps the most talented cabinet in
recent years; it’s also the most under-utilized. The only
people who’ve heard of Shaun Donovan are the experts who
know he’s one of the most impressive secretaries of Housing
and Urban Development in a long time.  
 The November midterm elections are likely to go badly
for the White House, though the Republicans’ ability to
hide their schisms -- the right versus the far right -- may
be unraveling a little, which could jeopardize their hopes
for huge gains.  
 Over the longer run, the central question is whether
the president gets a health-care bill through Congress and
whether there will be a continuum of improving jobs
reports, like last month’s.  
 Most important, however, is whether the Obama
administration can emulate the Obama campaign and fashion a
coherent strategy for governing. That matters a lot more
than whether the president listens to Emanuel or Axelrod.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington
at Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     David Axelrod, senior adviser to U.S. President Barack Obama, left, and Rahm Emanuel, Obama's chief of staff, talk during an event at the White House in Washington, May 26, 2009.  Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
