-- Investors Sour on These Stocks, So I Like Them: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-03-08T02:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-07/investors-sour-on-these-stocks-so-i-like-them-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             Solar-energy stock prices have been
falling for about two years.  
 Once viewed as the newest and greenest energy source, solar
power has become less popular with investors. They gradually
realized that it is far from competitive with conventional
energy sources on price, and that it accounts for less than 1
percent of U.S. electricity generation.  
 Now, with investors deserting these stocks, and with
analysts downgrading them, I am starting to get interested.  
 One solar stock,  STR Holdings Inc. , is already a good buy,
in my opinion. A few more of them could be worth buying if their
prices keep falling.  
 The industry, past the newborn stage and now an awkward
toddler, has experienced plenty of growing pains. The Big Three
 power sources  -- coal, nuclear and natural gas -- still account
for about 88 percent of U.S. electricity generation. Renewable
sources generate 11 percent, but most of that is hydroelectric
power. Petroleum is responsible for the rest.  
 Wind and geothermal energy are both more popular than
 solar .  
 Nurtured by government subsidies in Germany, Japan and the
U.S., the solar industry was shocked when Germany announced it
will reduce the level of its assistance this year. Making
matters worse, there is an ample supply of solar panels in the
U.S. to meet current demand.  
 Nonetheless, solar-power companies have gone from so-called
concept stocks to solid enterprises with substantial sales and
earnings. I think the industry has the potential to rekindle the
rapid expansion it showed from 2005 to 2008.  
 Siding With Analysts  
 STR, located in Enfield, Connecticut, has been a public
company for only four months. Unlike many of its rivals, it
doesn’t make photovoltaic cells, which convert the sun’s rays
into electricity. It makes capsules that hold the cells
together, protect them from the weather, and control the flow of
electricity from the panel to a power line.  
 Five of the six  analysts  who follow STR rate it a “buy.”
As a contrarian, I usually don’t like to side with the majority,
though I suspect these analysts have it right.  
 There is no glamour premium associated with the stock, as
there was for so many solar companies two or three years ago.
STR  shares  go for 11 times earnings and 1.4 times book value
(corporate net worth per share).  
 I am a cheapskate investor. In a normal market, I’m willing
to pay 15 times earnings, two times book value and two times
revenue to buy a stock.  
 Bargain Hunting  
 In the current market, I expect to pay less. After the
carnage of the 2008 bear market, there are a lot of bargains
around.  
 Therefore, to set a “buy” price for some of the largest
solar companies, I used a simple methodology. I took each
company’s earnings per share and multiplied by 12.  
 Then I multiplied both the book value and revenue per share
by 1.5. Finally, I took the three resulting numbers and averaged
them together. Using this method, I figure STR is worth buying
at up to $21, and the stock trades for about $18 now.  
 SunPower Corp. , based in San Jose, California, is a “buy”
at $19 or less under my formula, a whisker less than its current
price.  
 In 2005, when SunPower went public, the company’s revenue
was $79 million. By 2008, sales had increased to $1.4 billion.  
 For that kind of growth, you would normally expect to pay
up. However, SunPower’s  shares  have plummeted from a late 2007
high closing price of more than $133 to about $20. At this
price, they fetch only 1.5 times book value and 1.3 times sales.  
 Insider Buying  
 The rub is that SunPower is trading at 31 times earnings, a
lot more than I like to pay. Estimated  earnings  for 2009 were
about 50 cents a share compared with $1.09 a share in 2008,
hence the high price-earnings ratio.  
 What are the chances that SunPower will bounce back? If you
listen to analysts, you might be dubious. Only 15 of the 39
people covering the stock rate it a “buy.”  
 Some of the company’s executives, though, seem much more
optimistic. Four insiders have purchased  shares  this year, and
another six bought shares in 2009.  
 Tempe, Arizona-based  First Solar Inc. , the largest U.S.
company in this field by market value, had revenue of $2.07
billion last year, up from almost $135 million in 2006.  
 I estimate First Solar’s “buy” price at $58, far below
the current price of about $109. It isn’t impossible for the
 shares  to fall to $58 this year or next. The stock has already
descended from about $311 in May 2008.  
 Some Concerns  
 One thing that would make me hesitate to buy First Solar is
that  Michael J. Ahearn , its chairman and former chief executive
officer, sold more than 40 percent of his stake in February. He
received about $142 million for his shares.  
 While I am warming up to solar shares, there are some
negatives to consider, besides those already mentioned.  
 The recession reduced electricity use, and it is unclear
how soon it will bounce back. Oil and gas are selling for
moderate prices, compared with their highs of mid-2008. That
means there is less incentive for the government to push solar-
energy devices, or for individuals to use them.  
 Disclosure note: I do not currently own any of the stocks
discussed in this week’s column, either personally or for
clients.  
 ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
          
          


  


        