-- Rich Guy Carries His Own Bags to No-Name Motel: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-03-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-07/rich-guy-carries-his-own-bags-to-no-name-motel-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             If you’re tired of spoiled athletes,
the kind of overpaid petulance that grouses about too little
playing time and not enough touches, have I got a story for you.  
 It’s a tall tale -- 7-foot-3, to be precise.  
 It centers on a really big man and the even bigger
expectations that come with being the second person summoned to
shake Commissioner David Stern’s hand on National Basketball
Association draft night.  
 Specifically, it’s about former University of Connecticut
standout Hasheem Thabeet, a second-team All-America whose life
as a professional basketball player thus far can be summed up by
disappointment, demotion and, here’s the most important part, a
dogged determination to get better.  
 “We don’t like to say demotion,” says Joanna Shapiro, the
communications coordinator for the NBA Development League, in
which Thabeet currently plays alongside folks who are either
hanging on or hoping for.  
 Thabeet got (sorry, Joanna) demoted by the Memphis
Grizzlies, who should have known that he needed another year of
college. After all, Thabeet, a native of Tanzania, didn’t play
basketball until the age of 14. His sport of choice was soccer,
which explains the fleet feet.  
 “Very good footwork,” says his minor-league coach, Rory
White, a former Los Angeles Clippers assistant who knows a thing
or two about making big men better with their backs to the
basket. White’s students have included Elton Brand, Marcus Camby
and Chris Kaman, who made his first all-star team this season.  
 The Grizzlies could have drafted Tyreke Evans, who wound up
in Sacramento, or Milwaukee’s Brandon Jennings, the leading
candidates for NBA Rookie of the Year. They passed in favor of
Thabeet, who was averaging 2.5 points and 2.9 rebounds in about
10 minutes for the Grizzlies, who wanted more.  
 Why Not?  
 Why Thabeet? Simple. It’s a basketball adage older than
canvas Chuck Taylors, one that’s drilled into every talent
evaluator: You can’t teach size.  
 The Grizzlies were seduced by potential while blinded to
what might be. Only in this immediate-gratification society,
Thabeet wasn’t getting good enough, fast enough.  
 Call it what you want -- demoted, sent down -- but the fact
is Thabeet was in the NBA, enjoying five-star hotels and charter
flights with enough leg room for the Rockettes. And now he’s in
Bismarck, North Dakota, where home is a joint called the
Expressway Inn.  
 Check the collective bargaining agreement. Specifically,
Article XVIII, which states that NBA players on the road are
entitled to 1) have their baggage picked up by porters and 2)
extra-long beds. Things are a wee-bit different in the
Development League, where Thabeet carries not only his sneakers
and luggage, but the burden of being the highest draft pick ever
dispatched to the minors.  
 No Whining  
 Surely a millionaire accustomed to amenities would have at
least one complaint. What, no towel warmers? Nope. Not Thabeet,
who says no amount of money, no amount of fame, is enough to
make him forget that he had to practically beg college coaches
to give him a chance.  
 No complaints. Just a pledge to get better.  
 “I’m willing to learn,” Thabeet says over the telephone.
“That’s what separates me from all the characters.”  
 Right.  
 There’s no sense of entitlement with Thabeet, who, in case
you’re wondering, is still compensated under the terms of his
NBA contract, which will pay him almost $8 million for his first
two seasons. Oh, and he gets $113 a day in meal money, which is
more than many of his teammates earn in salary.  
 Ask Thabeet a question, any question, and the answer
probably includes a reference to improvement.  
 “I’m on a mission to play basketball and do what the
coaches want me to do,” Thabeet said.  
 Biggest Asset  
 Imagine that. An athlete who places professionalism above
entitlement.  
 Maybe that adage is all wrong. Big is useless without a
brain. Thabeet’s greatest asset isn’t his height. It’s his
attitude, which is why, White says, it won’t be long before the
big man is back in the big time.  
 “If he was down here goofing around, him not doing what
he’s supposed to, I could see them leaving him here,” White
said.  
 Oh, how I wish there was a way for every professional
athlete to get demoted, to fly coach, to not only live in the
Expressway Inn but carry his own bags.  
 You have to know a good number would rant and rave. Some
would demand a trade. Where there was a potential for carping,
Thabeet offered class. Good for him.  
 “I believe I’ll get something out of this,” Thabeet said.  
 So, too, might the Grizzlies. So, too might all of us.  
 (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        