-- `Tourists' May Shift From Real Estate as U.S. Rates Rise, Sternlicht Says
-- Daniel Taub
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/-tourists-may-shift-from-real-estate-as-u-s-rates-rise-sternlicht-says.html

          
          
             U.S. commercial real estate
investors may turn to other opportunities as vacancies remain
high and interest rates rise, according to Barry Sternlicht,
chief executive officer of Starwood Capital Group LLC.  
 “There are a lot of tourists in property and REITs right
now,” Sternlicht said at a panel discussion yesterday at the
Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California.
“Everybody is racing for yield.”  
 If interest rates head higher, “you will see a pause that
will take a lot of capital out,” he said. Corporate bonds may
benefit, according to Sternlicht.  
 A rebound in the real estate market is being hampered by
weak demand and commercial-mortgage-backed financing that
declined 95 percent last year from its record level in 2007.
Vacancies in the first quarter rose to the highest level since
at least 2000 at the nation’s biggest malls, and climbed to a
16-year peak at office buildings, research firm Reis Inc. said
earlier this month.  
 U.S. commercial real estate values in February fell to 42
percent below the market top in October 2007, according to the
Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index. Almost one-third
of repeat sales transactions were of distressed properties,
compared with less than 20 percent in early 2009, Moody’s said.  
 The Federal Reserve said earlier this month that the
economy expanded “somewhat” across most of the U.S. in March
as consumer spending and manufacturing improved, signaling the
recovery is broadening without gaining much speed. Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues have been debating how and
when to tighten credit, including whether to modify a pledge to
keep interest rates low for an “extended period.”  
 Special Servicers  
 Deal volume may increase in 2011 when distressed buildings
that have been surrendered by owners to special servicers reach
the market, Michael Van Konynenburg, president of commercial
brokerage Eastdil Secured LLC in Los Angeles, said during the
panel discussion.  
 Clearing the inventory of foreclosed properties will result
in “a lot more” financing through the issuance of commercial
mortgage backed securities, Van Konynenburg said.  
 Cheap debt fueled the commercial property surge with a
record $237 billion in CMBS sales in 2007, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Such sales fell last year to $12.2 billion.  
 The expected discounts for distressed buildings haven’t
materialized as investors holding “mountains of cash” compete
for those deals, said Sternlicht, whose firm is based in
Greenwich, Connecticut.  
 “We were all joking that the distressed cycle lasted about
two months,” he said.  
 Any discounts for commercial real estate in distress have
probably come and gone, Sternlicht said.  
 “I’m not sure that we’re going to see great
opportunities,” said panelist Richard LeFrak, CEO of New York-
based LeFrak Organization Inc. “I’m sorry, but I missed the
whole thing. It’s like we blinked and it went away.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
dlevy13bloomberg.net;
Daniel Taub in Los Angeles at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Barry Sternlicht, chairman and chief executive officer of Starwood Capital Group LLC, speaks during the 2010 Milken Institute Global Conference in Los Angeles on April 26, 2010. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
