-- Aeroflot May Start Low-Cost Carrier After Rosavia Takeover, Savelyev Says
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-04-27T07:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/aeroflot-may-start-low-cost-carrier-after-rosavia-takeover-savelyev-says.html

          
          
             OAO Aeroflot, Eastern Europe’s
biggest airline, may start a low-cost carrier after completing
the acquisition of Russian Technologies’s Rosavia unit, Chief
Executive Officer Vitaly Savelyev said.  
 Aeroflot will operate Rosavia’s six regional airlines
separately from its own “premium” brand, once it has taken
control of the group, Savelyev said in an interview yesterday.
The transaction will give Aeroflot an additional 7 million
passengers and 120 planes.  
 “We are examining the possibility of transforming the
assets of one of the carriers into a low-cost carrier,”
Savelyev said in London. “Aeroflot is a name to be given only
to a company which has reached the premium class.”  
 Russia’s airline industry needs more consolidation, and as
few as 30 carriers would suffice to serve a country that has
about 160 operators fighting for 45 million passengers, the CEO
said. Moscow-based Aeroflot forecast earlier this month that
passenger numbers may almost double next year to 20 million
after acquiring regional airlines.  
 Aeroflot, a member of the SkyTeam alliance led by Air
France-KLM Group and Delta Air Lines Inc., last year slashed
operating costs as demand for air travel slowed. Passenger
numbers have since rebounded and the carrier boosted traveler
numbers by 23 percent in the first quarter, the CEO said.  
 The airline, 51-percent owned by the Russian government,
raised 12 billion rubles ($413 million) April 8 selling three-
year bonds paying 7.75 percent, after receiving orders for more
than 24 billion rubles from investors, Savelyev said. The
proceeds are “more than enough” to cover financing needs at
present, the executive said.  
 Jet Orders  
 Aeroflot is reorganizing its fleet and has added Airbus SAS
and Boeing Co. planes as it phases out older models including
the OAO Tupolev Co. 154.  
 “It’s a reliable plane but, it isn’t efficient in terms of
oil consumption,” Savelyev said of the Russian aircraft.  
 The carrier has also placed orders for Boeing’s 787
Dreamliner and Airbus’s A350, models that have yet to enter
service. Aeroflot is also the biggest customer for Sukhoi Civil
Aircraft Co.’s Superjet regional aircraft, and anticipates
taking delivery of 10 of the 30 ordered “in the near future,”
Savelyev said, without being more specific.  
 Savelyev, who joined Aeroflot in April last year, said the
company wouldn’t take on any of the Rosavia group airlines
unless they would contribute to long-term growth.  
 Rossiya Reorganization  
 “This is an option to develop Aeroflot in the Russian
domestic market,” said the CEO, who previously worked at
billionaire Vladimir Yevtushenkov’s AFK Sistema holding company.  
 Aeroflot is working with St. Petersburg-based Rossiya, one
of the carriers in the Rosavia group, and plans to reorganize
the company’s debt and restore profitability. Measures to boost
earnings include increasing outsourcing, reducing staffing
levels and eliminating loss-making routes, Savelyev said.  
 “We are really sure that the company can reach positive
financial results as early as next year,” the CEO said of
Rossiya.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        