-- Lagardere `American Raider' Guy Wyser-Pratte Fails in Board Election Bid
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-04-27T15:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/lagardere-american-raider-guy-wyser-pratte-fails-in-board-election-bid.html

          
          
             Lagardere SCA activist investor Guy
Wyser-Pratte failed to win a seat on the company’s board,
marking a victory for the company’s chief executive officer.
Lagardere’s shares fell as much as 5.6 percent in Paris trading.  
 The investor received 22 percent of votes for his board
candidacy at the annual general meeting of France’s biggest
publisher in Paris today. He also lost a vote to change the
company’s corporate structure. Both resolutions had been opposed
by Lagardere’s management and board.  
 Wyser-Pratte, who is referred to by Lagardere as an
“American raider,” wants to change its status as a “societe
en commandite par actions,” a type of French stock partnership
that gives CEO Arnaud Lagardere the power to block some
shareholder proposals. The company says the structure allows it
to be run in a “responsible and careful” manner.  
 “There were a lot of hopes that Wyser-Pratte would
convince others and get support,” Alexander Wisch, an analyst
at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research in London, said by phone.
“Shareholders in general don’t like this commandite
structure.”  
 Lagardere dropped as much as 1.785 euros to 29.85 euros and
traded at 29.88 euros as of 5:29 p.m.  
 Today’s fall in Lagardere’s share price has erased some of
the gains since Wyser-Pratte began his campaign on March 25. On
March 24, the shares traded for 28 euros.  
 General Partners  
 Wyser-Pratte, who has said he owns a 0.53 percent stake,
said today he will keep his Lagardere shares and did not rule
out another board bid next year. “I don’t want to stay
silent,” he said. Wyser-Pratte has targeted European companies
including TUI AG and Kuka AG for management or strategy changes
during the past decade.  
 An SCA has two types of shareholders: general partners with
unlimited liability for company debts and the power to block
some shareholder initiatives, and limited partners whose
liability is limited to their initial investment.  
 Lagardere’s general partners are Arnaud Lagardere and Arco,
a company he runs alongside other executives.  
 Before the vote, the CEO warned shareholders not to follow
the path of Time Warner Inc.’s struggle with activist
shareholder Carl Icahn. The U.S. company’s sale of its books
unit after pressure from Icahn was “their greatest regret,”
Lagardere said at today’s meeting. “This demonstrates that the
dictates of the immediate are destructive to value,” he said.  
 ‘Factor of Stability’  
 The CEO said the company will “recenter” on media assets
in the next five years, and that acquisitions of sport and book
assets in the U.S. are possible.  He also said Lagardere has
been too cautious in some guidance and has cash to protect its
dividend level. The SCA structure “is a factor of stability in
a more and more violent world,” he said.  
 Wyser-Pratte “has no platform to propose,” said Didier
Cornardeau, president of the Association of Small Asset Holders,
who supported Lagardere in the challenge. “His project is not
credible. It’s insufficient from the point of view of
strategy.”  
 This month, Lagardere began a process to sell its 20
percent stake in Canal Plus France, the biggest French pay-
television operator. Vivendi SA, the Paris-based owner of the
world’s largest music and video game companies, owns the rest of
the company and has a pre-emption right for the sale of the
stake.  
 Vivendi has said it wants 100 percent control of Canal Plus
as part of an effort to buy out minority partners in its French
units.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        