-- Magic Sweep Bobcats to Reach Second Round of NBA Playoffs; Bucks, Suns Win
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-04-27T06:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/magic-beat-bobcats-99-90-to-sweep-nba-playoff-series-bucks-defeat-hawks.html

          
          
             The Orlando Magic completed
the first four-game series sweep in franchise history to
reach the second round of the National Basketball
Association playoffs.  
 Vince Carter scored 21 points and the Magic, the
second seed in the Eastern Conference, beat the Charlotte
Bobcats 99-90 last night at Time Warner Cable Arena in
Charlotte, North Carolina.  
 “I was proud of our intensity and our resolve,
especially in the two games here,” Magic coach Stan Van
Gundy said during a news conference. “It was good to
finish off the series.”  
 It’s the first sweep in a best-of-seven series for
Orlando, which finished with the second-best record in the
league this season behind Cleveland after losing to the Los
Angeles Lakers in last year’s NBA Finals.  
 The Magic next face the Milwaukee Bucks or Atlanta
Hawks, who are tied 2-2 in their best-of-seven Eastern
Conference playoff series.  
 The Bucks beat the Hawks 111-104 yesterday for their
second straight win at the Bradley Center in Milwaukee.
Brandon Jennings scored 23 points for the Bucks, while
Carlos Delfino and John Salmons each had 22.  
 The home team has won all four games in the series,
which returns to Atlanta for Game 5 tomorrow.  
 The Phoenix Suns beat the Portland Trail Blazers 107-
88 last night in Phoenix to take a 3-2 lead in their
Western Conference series. Channing Frye scored 20 points
and Amare Stoudemire added 19 for the Suns, the third seed
in the West.  
 Portland will host Game 6 in two days.  
 Four playoff series continue today, and both No. 1
seeds are in action. The Cleveland Cavaliers, the top team
in the East, host the Chicago Bulls with a 3-1 lead and a
chance to close out their series, while the Los Angeles
Lakers host the Oklahoma City Thunder with their Western
Conference series tied 2-2.  
 The Boston Celtics host the Miami Heat with a 3-1
series lead and the San Antonio Spurs visit the Dallas
Mavericks with a 3-1 advantage.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        