-- Thai Government Pledges Action as Protesters Block Bangkok Commuter Train
-- Anuchit Nguyen
-- 2010-04-27T03:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/thai-protesters-disrupt-bangkok-train-service-with-threat-to-throw-tires.html

          
          
             Thai anti-government protesters
blocked one of Bangkok’s two commuter train lines during the
morning rush hour, prompting a vow from authorities to “toughen
measures” to prevent escalating disruptions.  
 The demonstrators placed tires on the platform outside the
gate of the BTS SkyTrain after a rumor soldiers would use the
line to enter the protest site, leader Jaran Ditapichai said.
The train resumed normal operation at about 10 a.m. local time.  
 “We told people to prepare to fight,” Jaran said in an
interview today. “It was a defensive measure.”  
 Such disruptions to the capital’s transportation
infrastructure may raise tension with the government.
Authorities have threatened to retake the commercial center,
occupied since April 3 by an encampment fortified with sharpened
bamboo poles and complete with makeshift showers.  
 “We have been patient for two months,” Deputy Prime
Minister Suthep Thaugsuban said today. “But we will use
decisive measures under the law from now.”  
 The Skytrain serves about 450,000 passengers a day in the
city of nine million people, according to data on the company’s
Web site. It began service in 1999.  
 A grenade attack on the elevated train line killed one
person last week and a failed attempt to disperse the group
April 10 left 25 people dead. Thailand’s SET Index fell 0.3
percent as of 10:38 a.m. in Bangkok after rising 1.3 percent
yesterday.  
 Groups of elderly women sat in front of the main protest
stage fanning themselves earlier today as leaders spoke near the
train platform. The station was blocked with a metal gate.  
 Peaceful Resolution  
 Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva, who last weekend rejected
direct talks with the protesters, still aims to resolve the
conflict peacefully, government spokesman Panitan Wattanayagorn
said yesterday.  
 “There is no majority call to use force to clear them
out,” he told reporters in Bangkok. “The majority of Thai
people won’t accept that.”  
 The demonstrators, who largely support fugitive ex-leader
Thaksin Shinawatra and wear red shirts, have blocked off an area
roughly the size of New York’s Central Park. Pro-Thaksin parties
have won the past four elections on a platform of improved
health care and cheap loans.  
 Thai King Bhumibol Adulyadej addressed a group of judges
last night, in his first public appearance since the violent
clashes earlier this month. Without mentioning the protests, he
called on the judges to “help maintain justice and order in the
country.”  
 The king, who is head of state, spoke to judges after
Thaksin’s party won a boycotted election in April 2006, calling
the vote undemocratic. Two weeks later, the courts annulled the
election.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo shows the BTS Skytrain making its way past office buildings in the central business district of Bangkok, Thailand. Photographer: Richard Humphries/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
