-- AIG Is `Grossly Overvalued,' Cut to `Underperform' by KBW on Bailout Costs
-- Jamie McGee
-- 2010-04-27T20:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/aig-shares-grossly-overvalued-rating-lowered-to-underperform-by-kbw.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc.,
the insurer rescued by the U.S., was cut to “underperform” by
KBW Inc. on the prospect that meeting government obligations
will wipe out most of common shareholders’ value. The stock fell
the most in almost eight months.  
 “The publicly traded shares are grossly overvalued,” said
Cliff Gallant, a KBW analyst, in a note to investors today.
“Under the current ownership and capital structure, we see
little long-term value in the common shares.” Gallant said he
expects AIG to fall to $6 in 12 months, compared with
yesterday’s closing price of $44.51.  
 AIG turned over a stake of almost 80 percent to the U.S. in
the 2008 bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion. The New York-
based insurer has missed four rounds of dividend payments on a
Treasury Department investment of more than $40 billion in
preferred shares. Gallant said the Treasury is entitled to a 10
percent annual dividend from AIG, which posted a fourth-quarter
loss of about $8.9 billion.  
 “Even if AIG does report earnings, the income will not be
accruing to the common shareholder,” Gallant wrote. “After
liquidity needs are met, AIG has a legal obligation to the
preferred owners to pay this dividend, effectively eliminating
any real earnings per share.” Gallant previously rated AIG
“market perform.”  
 AIG dropped 16 percent to $37.37 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest decline since
Sept. 1. The company has advanced about 25 percent this year
after falling 97 percent in 2008 and 4.5 percent in 2009. Mark
Herr, a spokesman for AIG, declined to comment.  
 Asset Sales  
 The insurer will focus on repaying the Treasury after
completing the sale of two non-U.S. life divisions for $51
billion, Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche said in an
April 1 interview. The deals, which were announced in March, are
expected to be completed by Dec. 31 and will help pay down AIG’s
debt on a Federal Reserve credit line by the end of this year,
the insurer has said.  
 Treasury is considering a plan to convert AIG preferred
shares into common stock and sell the holdings on the open
market over two years, a person with knowledge of talks with the
insurer said this month. If AIG consents to the strategy and
there is sufficient investor demand, the sales could be
announced as early as the fourth quarter, the person said.  
 Shareholders could benefit if the government again revises
the bailout to ease the terms for the insurer, a possibility
that investors shouldn’t count on, Gallant said.  
 Government Debt  
 “Considering the government’s own debt levels and the
general political climate today, we view it is unlikely for the
government to accept a form of partial payment, except in a
hopeless situation,” Gallant said.  
 Benmosche will focus on U.S. life insurance and global
property-casualty coverage after completing the sales of AIA
Group Ltd. to Prudential Plc, and American Life Insurance Co. to
MetLife Inc.  
 AIG’s insurance units are “showing signs of recovery,”
congressional auditors said today.  
 “For the first time since the second quarter of 2008,
additions to AIG life and retirement policyholder contract
deposits have exceeded withdrawals,” the Government
Accountability Office said today in its third report examining
the New York-based company’s rescue. “AIG’s property-casualty
companies also have shown some improvements.”  
 Stabilization at AIG “remains largely attributable to the
assistance AIG has received from the Federal Reserve and
Treasury, not its ability to access private sources of
capital,” according to the report.  
 Capital Group Cos. has held discussions with Aviva Plc,
Resolution Ltd. and an unidentified party about splitting
Prudential, the London-based Times reported, without saying
where it got the information.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie McGee in New York at 
 jmcgee8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       American International Group Inc. headquarters, NY  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A flag flies outside 70 Pine Street, home to the headquarters of American International Group (AIG), in New York on Dec. 4, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A flag flies outside 70 Pine Street, home to the headquarters of American International Group (AIG), in New York on Dec. 4, 2009. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 6 (Bloomberg) -- Ernie Patrikis, a partner at White & Case LLP, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman and Mark Crumpton about American International Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche's plans to remain with the insurer for another year or two and help prepare the bailed-out company for his departure. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 7 (Bloomberg) -- Ohio State Attorney General Richard Cordray talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller about American International Group Inc.'s agreement to pay $9 million to settle allegations it violated Ohio antitrust laws by colluding to restrict the commercial insurance market. 
     Cordray also says damages from a Bank of America Corp. lawsuit could be in the billions. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
