-- Half of IRA Savers Won't Make Roth Conversions on Tax Doubts, Putnam Says
-- Margaret Collins
-- 2010-04-27T16:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/half-of-ira-savers-won-t-make-roth-conversions-on-tax-doubts-putnam-says.html

          
          
             More than half of U.S. savers with
taxable individual retirement accounts won’t convert to a tax-
free Roth type because they aren’t convinced about the tax
savings, according to a Putnam Investments LLC survey.  
 The study, which polled 1,001 Americans with retirement
accounts from April 2 through April 7, found that 56 percent
would not convert their traditional IRA to a Roth IRA, according
to the Boston-based money manager. Two-thirds of respondents
said they weren’t sure that paying the taxes now would save them
money in the future, the survey said.  
 “You could be wrong on whether taxes are going up or
down,” said  Jeff Carney , head of retirement and global products
at Putnam, which has $8.7 billion in IRA assets. “There’s not
going to be any perfect decision here because there are things
you’re not going to control that are going to take place.”  
 The Internal Revenue Service lifted income restrictions
this year on converting a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA, meaning
U.S. taxpayers making more than $100,000 a year in adjusted
income can make the change. Those who switch from a traditional
IRA, where taxes are paid only on withdrawals, to a Roth IRA,
must pay income taxes upfront in exchange for tax-free
withdrawals during retirement.  
 There is skepticism that government may change the rules
regarding tax-free withdrawals from Roth IRAs, said Christine
Fahlund, senior financial planner for Baltimore-based  T. Rowe
Price Group Inc . “If that happened, you would have accelerated
your tax payments unnecessarily,” she said.  
 Fidelity Investments said conversions to Roth IRAs
increased fourfold in the first quarter of 2010 to 58,000,
compared with the same period last year. The Boston-based firm
declined to say how many IRA accounts it manages, said spokesman
 Michael Shamrell .  
 Tax Shield  
 T. Rowe Price  reported nearly 5,800 investors shifting $188
million in assets to a Roth IRAs in the first quarter of 2010,
which represents a “very small fraction” of such accounts,
said spokesman  Robert Benjamin  in an e-mail. The firm declined
to give the number of its IRA accounts.  
 Withdrawals from Roth IRAs are tax-free and the accounts
don’t require distributions once holders reach 70 and a half
like traditional IRAs. Roth IRAs may also be passed on to heirs
and grow tax-free, Fahlund said. A Roth IRA may help shield
investors from future higher tax rates, she said.  
 In 2011, income tax rates for the highest earners will go
to 39.6 percent, up from 35 percent, and the capital gains tax
will rise to 20 percent from 15 percent, unless Congress acts.
Distributions from traditional IRA accounts are  taxed  at
ordinary income rates, according to the IRS.  
 Capital Gains  
 In 2010 only, taxpayers who convert may report half the
income in 2011 and half in 2012 unless they choose to pay the
entire levy this year, according to the  IRS .  
 A taxpayer in the top income bracket with an IRA worth $1.2
million would pay 35 percent or $420,000 in federal taxes when
converting the account into a Roth IRA and paying this year.  
 Investors who are deciding whether to convert are worried
there may be a tax on distributions from Roth IRAs in the
future, said  Mickey Cargile , managing partner at WNB Private
Client Services in Midland, Texas, with about $700 million in
assets under management.  
 “The distrust of the government is a huge issue right now
along with its lack of financial stewardship,” Cargile said.
“It’s certainly a major concern.”  
 About 37 million American  households  held a traditional IRA
as of May 2009, compared with 17 million households with a Roth
IRA, according the Investment Company Institute, a Washington-
based mutual-fund trade group. Traditional IRAs held an
estimated $3.72 trillion in assets and Roth IRAs held about $215
billion at the end of last year, according to ICI.  
 The Putnam survey was conducted by  InsightExpress , a
research firm based in Stamford, Connecticut, which polled
online a nationwide sample of Americans age 22 and above. About
36 percent of respondents had incomes above $100,000, Putnam
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Internal Revenue Service headquarters building in Washington, DC is seen in this file photo. Photographer:  Dennis Brack/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
