-- Anta Sports Sales May Grow at Least 15% This Year on New Stores in China
-- Wei Du
-- 2010-04-27T09:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/anta-sports-sales-may-grow-at-least-15-this-year-on-new-stores-in-china.html

          
          
             Anta Sports Products Ltd., China’s
largest maker of athletic shoes, said sales may grow by at least
15 percent this year as it opens more stores.  
 “We expect sales growth to be around 15 to 20 percent, and
we want to execute our plan even better,” Chief Financial
Officer Paul Ling said in a Bloomberg Television interview
recorded in Hong Kong today. “We expect net profit to grow even
more than the sales growth because we can achieve operating
efforts to save some expenses.”  
 Anta, which sponsors China’s Olympic Committee as well as
international women’s tennis players Jelena Jankovic and Zheng
Jie, is benefitting as Chinese consumers buy more casual shoes
and clothing. Retail sales in China rose 17.9 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier.  
 The Chinese shoemaker’s net income last year rose 40
percent to 1.25 billion yuan ($183 million), and sales gained 27
percent to 5.87 billion yuan. Anta is based in Jinjiang, Fujian
province.  
 Anta, which has gained 22 percent in market value this
year, fell 1.3 percent to close at HK$13.96 in Hong Kong.
The benchmark Hang Seng Index lost 1.5 percent today and has
declined 2.8 percent in the same period.  
 “The macroeconomic environment in China this year is
improving and is supporting local consumption,” Jessica Hong, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. who
recommends buying Anta, said in a phone interview today.
“Retailers are also holding low inventory this year and have
been increasing product orders to meet demand.”  
 Same-Store Sales  
 Same-store sales, a measure that strips out the effect of
recently opened outlets, will probably accelerate this year
after growing by between 5 percent and 10 percent in 2009, James
Zheng, Anta’s executive director, said Feb. 24. Anta plans to
increase its outlets by 8.5 percent to 7,200 this year, Claudia
Lo, vice president for investor relations, has said.  
 Anta expects product orders this year to increase as
retailers replenish stock. The company plans to increase
spending on marketing and branding in China, Ling said.  
 An increase in the value of the Chinese currency, the yuan,
may help cut Anta’s cost for some imported raw materials such as
petrochemicals, Ling said. Anta may consider raising prices in
the fourth quarter as raw material costs such as cotton rise, he
said.  
 “We’re improving our design capability,” Ling said. “We
also want to have more international players to represent us.”  
 He said his sales growth forecast was a “conservative
estimate.”  
 The company added 924 stores in China in 2009, taking the
total to 6,591, it said in its 2009 earnings statement. Footwear
sales rose 29 percent to 34.6 million pairs of shoes.  
 Having 10,000 stores in China is an achievable target, Ling
said. Anta may open outlets in overseas markets in the next
three years as the mainland becomes “saturated,” starting
possibly in Singapore and Southeast Asia, he said.  
 Anta will only expand overseas after it has completed work
on trademark protection, Ling said in the interview, which is
scheduled to air tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Wing-Gar Cheng in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net ;
Wei Du in Hong Kong at   wdu3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        