-- Anthony Caro Plans Three-Block-Long Park Avenue Sculpture
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-04-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/anthony-caro-plans-sculpture-stretching-3-blocks-on-park-avenue-interview.html

          
          
             Anthony Caro  works in a vast
warehouse stacked with dockyard leftovers.  
 Arriving at his north London studio each day, the 86-year-
old sculptor has tea and biscuits with a few assistants, then
gets down to the dirty, noisy business of making art.  
 Caro is currently showing 13 new works at London’s  Annely
Juda  Fine Art. Bulky creatures of steel and cast iron, they
seem human, though Caro never meant them to give that
impression. In just 18 months, he has made 43 of these upright
sculptures.  
 “I’ve purchased a forklift truck, which makes a lot of
difference,” says the artist over coffee in his studio living
room, a wool scarf wrapped over his cardigan. “What used to
take a morning or a day now takes 10 minutes.”  
 Caro, who sports a Hemingway-like white beard, is
considered the godfather of British sculpture. At an age when
peers might hang up their tools, he heads down new paths,
displaying an appetite for life that his new works exude.  
 On his to-do list is a sculpture, three blocks long, that
will run down the central reservation -- the broad strip
separating northbound and southbound traffic -- on New York’s
Park Avenue.  
 Traveling up or down the avenue, he says, “you’re going
about 30 miles an hour, so you’ve got to make a sculpture which
goes with you.” The project is on hold: “The police, the
traffic, all that has to be resolved before I can start.”  
 Auction Record  
 The recent art-market craze appears to have passed him by.
The most a Caro work ever fetched at auction was 1.4 million
pounds (then $2.45 million), paid in February 2006 at  Sotheby’s 
London for “Sculpture Two” (1962). By contrast,  Jeff Koons’s 
most expensive sculpture -- “Balloon Flower - Magenta” (1995-
2000) -- sold at Christie’s London in June 2008 for 12.9
million pounds (then $25.8 million).  
 The works in Caro’s new show range between 55,000 pounds
($85,107) and 320,000 pounds, according to the Annely Juda
gallery.  
 “It’s a different world,” he says of today’s market.
“The crazy-price things, I think, are destructive of the art
because people get too conscious of money.”  
 Caro remembers a time when, after an exhibition, friends
would ask how it went or whether critics liked it. “Now they
say, ‘Did you sell?’” he says. “It puts the wrong emphasis.”  
 Moore’s Books  
 He studied engineering at Cambridge, then became a part-
time assistant to the late sculptor  Henry Moore . He taught Caro
about light, perspective and three-dimensional drawing, and
lent him many art books.  
 In 1960, Caro switched from clay to steel, prodded by the
late American critic Clement Greenberg. “Clem said to me, ‘If
you want to change your art, change your habits,’” he recalls.
“That’s when I went down to the steel yards and the docks and
bought some steel.”  
 Having met Greenberg and the sculptor  David Smith , Caro
spent time in the U.S. as of the 1960s. He taught for two years
at Bennington College, and had his first one-man New York
exhibition at the Andre Emmerich Gallery. His experience of the
U.S., he says, was life-changing.  
 “American artists looked at art in a completely different
way: They were not literary, they were visual, and that
delighted me,” he says. “I caught onto America, and America
caught onto my work, quite early.”  
 Acceptance back home “was much slower,” he says, dating
his first major U.K. show to 1969, when the  Hayward Gallery 
staged a retrospective.  
 Quirky Students  
 Caro found time, between 1953 and 1981, to teach two days
a week at London’s  St. Martin’s School of Art . His pupils
included the quirky duo Gilbert & George, “great fun and very
nice.”  
 “They would have little tea parties, and you would have
cold baked beans in an ice cream cone,” Caro remembers with a
laugh. “Foreign people who came along and happened to be there
thought the English had strange tastes!”  
 Today, sculpture is increasingly conceived as architecture
-- as a space the visitor can enter. Caro feels close to that
trend. “I think sculpture has opened up a lot, and I think
I’ve opened it up quite a bit,” he says. “Sculpture is not so
much only thing, which it used to be: It’s also place.” He’s
now thinking about making a work that’s more about place and
less about thing.  
 What drives him above all is an underlying optimism. He
feels a world apart from a painter such as  Mark Rothko , whose
work got “darker and darker, and as you got to the end, you
felt that suicide was the next step, and it was.”  
 “I think art is a kind of celebration, and in a way it is
almost religious, in that you are trying to render thanks and
joy and depth to the world that we’re in,” he says. “And
we’re lucky to be here.”  
 “Anthony Caro -- Upright Sculptures” is at Annely Juda
Fine Art, London, through July 2. Information:
 http://www.annelyjudafineart.co.uk .  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Anthony Caro  
                       
                         
                           Annely Juda Fine Arts via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Sculptor Anthony Caro. Caro is currently exhibiting 13 new works at the Annely Juda Fine Arts gallery in London, running through July 2. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Sculptor Anthony Caro. Caro is currently exhibiting 13 new works at the Annely Juda Fine Arts gallery in London, running through July 2. Source: Annely Juda Fine Arts via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Up Front" (2010), a sculpture in painted steel, by Sir Anthony Caro. The work is at the Annely Juda Fine Art, Dering St., London, until July 2. Photographer: John Riddy/Annely Juda Fine Art via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Up A Note"  
                       
                         
                           John Riddy/Annely Juda Fine Art via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Up A Note" (2008-9), a sculpture in steel and wood by, Sir Anthony Caro. The work is showing at Annely Juda Fine Art, Dering St., London, until July 2. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Up A Note" (2008-9), a sculpture in steel and wood by, Sir Anthony Caro. The work is showing at Annely Juda Fine Art, Dering St., London, until July 2. Photographer: John Riddy/Annely Juda Fine Art via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
