-- Arab League Links Peace-Talks Support to U.S.-Guaranteed Jerusalem Freeze
-- Daniel Williams
-- 2010-04-27T12:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/arab-league-links-peace-talks-support-to-u-s-guaranteed-jerusalem-freeze.html

          
          
             The Arab League will only support
new Middle East peace talks if the U.S. guarantees there is a
freeze on Israeli construction in east Jerusalem, the spokesman
for Secretary-General Amre Moussa said.  
 The 22-member Arab League will meet May 1 in Cairo to
discuss supporting Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas
in proposed indirect negotiations. Abbas told Israel’s Channel
Two television late yesterday that he is committed to starting
talks organized by U.S. special envoy George Mitchell, who will
serve as mediator.  
 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government reached a
secret understanding with the U.S. to delay or limit building in
east Jerusalem in order to proceed with indirect talks, Israel’s
Maariv newspaper reported yesterday without saying where it got
the information. Efforts to get the negotiations under way
stalled last month, during a visit by Vice President Joe Biden,
when Israel announced a plan to build 1,600 homes in east
Jerusalem, which it captured in the 1967 Middle East War.  
 Palestinians regard east Jerusalem as part of the West Bank
and want it to be the capital of a future Palestinian state.
Israel says the city must remain united under its control.  
 “We have heard lots of stories about freezes,” Moussa’s
spokesman, Hisham Youssef, said in phone interview. “We will
wait for U.S. guarantees before deciding to support the talks.”  
 The Arab League endorsed peace talks on March 3, providing
Abbas with political cover to take part. The next day, Israel
announced expanded construction in east Jerusalem and
negotiation plans evaporated.  
 “We were burned before and we don’t want to be burned
again,” Youssef said.  
 ‘No Freeze’  
 Last week, Netanyahu told Israel’s Channel Two there would
be no building halt.  
 “I am saying one thing: There will be no freeze in
Jerusalem,” he said. “There should be no preconditions for
talks.”  
 Mitchell ended a three-day visit to the region on April 25
after meeting with Netanyahu and Abbas as part of a U.S. effort
to arrange the indirect “proximity talks.” The former U.S.
senator will return next week for another round of discussions
with both sides, the American Embassy in Tel Aviv said.  
 Direct Israeli-Palestinian peace talks were suspended 16
months ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Williams in Cairo at 
 dwilliams41@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        