-- Marchionne Finds Chrysler Is No Nissan in First Year
-- Kae Inoue
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/marchionne-chasing-ghosn-finds-chrysler-no-nissan-as-global-alliance-wilts.html

          
          
             Four months before Fiat agreed to
take management control of Chrysler Group LLC, Chief Executive
Officer Sergio Marchionne said he wanted to create one of the
world’s top five carmakers.  
 Speaking to 1,500 people in the auditorium at Fiat’s Turin
headquarters on Dec. 11, 2008, Marchionne said Fiat needed to
forge alliances with other car companies to survive long term.  
 It hasn’t gone as planned. While Marchionne scooped up
Chrysler, his efforts to acquire General Motor Co.’s Opel, Saab,
and South American operations last year went nowhere when GM
decided to hang onto them or sell them to someone else.  
 “Marchionne’s vision was to create a large automotive group
under the control of Fiat,” said Giuseppe Berta, a Fiat expert
and business professor at Milan’s Bocconi University. “It’s
going to be a lot harder now.”  
 Marchionne’s challenge is to match the success of Carlos
Ghosn, who runs an alliance of Renault SA and Nissan Motor Co.
as chief executive officer of both companies, said Stephen Pope,
chief global equity strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald in London.
Ghosn’s 11-year-old Renault-Nissan partnership is the only major
auto alliance that has worked, Pope said.  
 Keeping up with Ghosn could become harder for Marchionne in
the wake of Renault-Nissan’s agreement in early April to share
small-car and engine technology with Daimler AG.  
 Latest Vision  
 At a press conference in Turin on April 21, Marchionne laid
out his latest vision for the Fiat-Chrysler alliance. By
integrating the two companies’ product development and
distribution and linking up with partners in Russia and China,
he said, his enterprise would produce 6 million cars by 2014.
Right now, Fiat and Chrysler can make about 3.3 million cars.
Marchionne would have to add 2.7 million units.  
 “When we announced our acquisition of Chrysler, our
objective was clear,” said Marchionne, who also outlined plans
to split Fiat’s industrial operations from carmaking. “We wanted
the international benefit of access to the NAFTA region. We were
looking for an industrial partner with which to shore up Fiat’s
business.”  
 While Chrysler reported a $143 million operating profit for
the first three months of 2009, analysts say those results could
be fleeting.  
 “The accounting remains opaque, and current costs may not
be sustainable,” said Max Warburton, a senior analyst at
Bernstein Research in London, who in an April 15 report
predicted Chrysler would report a first-quarter profit.  
 Falling Share  
 Between March 2009 and March 2010, Chrysler’s U.S. market
share fell 2 percentage points to 9.2 percent, according to
Autodata Corp. in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey. Over the same
period Ford Motor Co.’s share surged to 17.4 percent from 14.7
percent, and GM’s rose to 18.7 percent from 18.6 percent.
Independent analyst Maryann Keller said Marchionne, 57, could
miss his sales target of 1.1 million cars in the U.S. this year.  
 Ghosn, 56, set the modern standard for automotive
turnarounds, leading Nissan to record profits of $3.6 billion on
$66 billion in revenue 17 months after his arrival.  
 “The lead success story in auto industry alliances is
Renault-Nissan,” said Cantor Fitzgerald’s Pope. “He’s defied
the odds. The Renault-Nissan alliance has become the
benchmark.”  
 In the early going, Ghosn earned respect inside and outside
the auto industry by setting short-term targets and vowing to
resign if he didn’t meet them.  
 On Oct. 18, 1999, Ghosn announced the Nissan Revival Plan
and vowed to be profitable by March 2001, to boost operating
margins to 4.5 percent and cut debt in half by March 2003. Ghosn
hit the last two targets one year ahead of schedule.  
 Rough Going  
 By contrast, Marchionne’s vision for Chrysler as the
linchpin of a new global auto alliance hit rough going almost
immediately after he announced it.  
 Last May, seeking global scale, Marchionne expressed
interest in acquiring GM’s European and South American assets.
GM never formally offered to sell its South American operations,
which included production and sales in Brazil and Argentina. The
U.S. automaker declined Fiat’s offer for Opel and decided to
sell the division to Magna, the Canadian auto parts maker.  
 Then, last November, GM changed course. Overruling Fritz
Henderson, who was CEO at the time, the board decided to hang on
to Opel. The directors argued keeping the division would help GM
maintain a strong presence in Europe.  
 Marchionne wound up with only Chrysler. Fiat obtained a 20
percent stake in exchange for technology and export
opportunities. The United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care fund
owns 67.7 percent, with the U.S. and Canadian governments
holding the rest.  
 Too Early  
 Marchionne’s defenders say it’s too early to rate his
performance because he has been running Chrysler for about 10
months. Stefano Aversa, co-president, AlixPartners LLP, which
advised Fiat on a joint venture with GM, said Marchionne’s
efforts won’t become visible until the end of the year when
Chrysler will have released new versions of the Jeep Grand
Cherokee, the Chrysler 300 sedan and started plugging holes in
the model lineup.  
 “He doesn’t have a magic wand,” said Aversa. “It’s
premature to judge now.”  
 Marchionne faces a weak car market; auto sales were booming
in the U.S. when Ghosn launched his turnaround at Nissan. The
international auto market is also more competitive than it was
11 years ago because car companies can produce 90 million
vehicles worldwide, about 30 million more than there are buyers.  
 Gutted Budgets  
 Chrysler is weaker than Nissan was when Ghosn arrived in
1999, said John Wolkonowicz, senior auto analyst at IHS Global
Insight. Bent on cutting costs, Chrysler’s previous owner,
Cerberus Capital Management LP, gutted the budgets for new
vehicles. When Marchionne took over last June, Chrysler had few
models in the development pipeline and no small, fuel-efficient
cars. While Fiat’s 500 compact is scheduled to go on sale in
Chrysler showrooms in December, new vehicles, about half to be
built from Fiat designs, won’t appear until 2012.  
 “Nissan was nowhere near as sick as Chrysler,”
Wolkonowicz said.  
 Though Nissan was headed for its seventh annual loss in
eight years when Ghosn took over, the company had a lineup of
new models on which to build. What’s more, Renault, in taking a
36.8 percent stake in Nissan, injected $5.4 billion into the
Japanese automaker.  
 “The table was set in many respects when Ghosn came on
board,” said Michael Robinet, a senior analyst for CSM
Worldwide Inc. in Troy, Michigan.  
 Cultural Challenge  
 Ghosn’s challenge at Nissan was partly cultural. He was the
first Westerner to run a major Japanese automaker. Seeking to
fit in, he learned conversational Japanese, ate $4 bowls of
ramen noodles in the Nissan cafeteria and rode the same elevator
as regular employees.  
 Learning Japanese helped Ghosn win credibility with
executives and workers accustomed to lifetime employment, said
labor boss Akira Takakura, as Ghosn set about restructuring
Nissan. By March of 2003, Ghosn, dubbed “Le Cost-Killer” by
the French media for his previous efforts at Renault, had closed
five factories, and laid off 21,000 employees, or 14 percent of
the workforce.  
 Renault shares are down 1.4 percent since the beginning of
the year while Fiat shares are flat. Out of 34 analysts rating
the French carmaker’s stock tracked by Bloomberg, 12 have a
“buy” rating, while nine advise holding the shares and five
recommend selling it. Of 34 analysts following Fiat and
monitored by Bloomberg, 12 advise buying the shares, 12 suggest
holding them and 10 recommend selling. Chrysler is closely held.  
 ‘Overweight’  
 Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley’s lead European automotive
analyst and the No. 1 rated analyst under “Bloomberg’s Absolute
Return Ranking,” ranks Fiat as “overweight.” In an April 22
note, Jonas said Chrysler would help Fiat compete.  
 “Herein lies one of the biggest buckets of value currently
ignored by the market,” Jonas wrote.  
 Cantor Fitzgerald’s Pope has a “sell” recommendation on
Fiat shares. He said the Fiat brand had limited global
potential, especially in China.  
 Marchionne was born in Chieti, Italy, and moved to Toronto
when he was 14. He holds dual Canadian and Italian citizenship
and is as much at ease unveiling new Fiat models for Italian
dignitaries as he is grabbing junk food with United Auto
Workers’ Vice President General Holiefield.  
 A chartered accountant, barrister, and solicitor,
Marchionne began his career in Canada, where he worked as an
accountant and tax specialist for Deloitte & Touche. In 1994
Marchionne joined chemicals and pharmaceuticals group Alusuisse
Lonza Group Ltd. Three years later, as CEO, he spun off the
pharmaceuticals business to create Lonza Group AG, where he
tripled profit in three years.  
 Turnaround Artist  
 Marchionne consolidated his reputation as a turnaround artist at
SGS SA, the Geneva-based product testing company, and Fiat,
which he joined as CEO in 2004. He returned Fiat to profit in
2005 after four years of losses by wringing about $2 billion out
of GM to unravel an alliance between the two, laying off 19,000
workers, slashing product development times to 18 months from
four years and introducing new models such as the Punto.  
 While analysts say Marchionne continues to find ways to cut
costs at Chrysler, much of that work was done when he arrived in
Detroit. The 6-week trip through Chapter 11 last spring, which
Marchionne called a “washing machine” bankruptcy, left
Chrysler a leaner entity. Chrysler shed 8 factories, real
estate, equipment leases and 789 U.S. dealerships.  
 Improving Morale  
 Marchionne gets credit inside and outside Chrysler for improving
morale, laid low after a revolving door of owners, including
Daimler, which sold the company to Cerberus in 2007.  
 “After 10 years of tyranny between Daimler and Cerberus,
the creativity at Chrysler had been pushed very far
underground,” said IHS Global Insight’s Wolkonowicz. “Now
Marchionne is bringing it out and he will put his mark on it.”  
 One of Marchionne’s first acts was to reach into the ranks
and promote 40-something managers to prominent positions. That’s
what he did at Fiat.  
 “I look for people who have two fundamental abilities--to
embrace change and to lead people,” Marchionne, who declined to
be interviewed for this story, said during a March 30 speech in
New York.  
 Last October Marchionne named Ralph Gilles, 40, chief of
the Dodge brand, a job that entails deciding what kind of cars
to build and how to market them. Before Marchionne arrived, said
Gilles, department heads made presentations to the executive
committee and left once the senior staff began discussing the
pros and cons. Now, Gilles said, he and other department chiefs
are expected to join the debate.  
 “All the people that need to make something happen are in
the room,” he said.  
 Linchpin Model  
 Morale is one thing; new product another. With little to
show, Marchionne is pouring resources into a new version of the
Jeep Grand Cherokee, which is scheduled to go on sale at U.S.
dealerships in June. He has called the sport utility vehicle a
linchpin model that could spur sales and cast a halo over the
entire company.  
 “It is the signature car for Chrysler,” he said March 30.
“This needs to be the badge for all new models that will get
introduced.”  
 Marchionne has said the new Grand Cherokee must be flawless
and of much higher quality than its predecessors. Making the SUV
a success falls to Mike Manley, 46, president and CEO of Jeep.  
 “It’s the first vehicle out of the gate,” Manley said.
“I feel a huge amount of pressure to get this right.”  
 Analysts say that while the new Jeep may help Marchionne
boost sales in the short term, the gaps in the product lineup
will be difficult to solve.  
 ‘Dubious’  
 “We remain dubious that Fiat can deliver great new
Chrysler product,” Bernstein analyst Warburton wrote in an
April 15 report. “For 2010/11 all the company has, apart from
the new Grand Cherokee, is some refreshes and facelifts.”  
 Since becoming Chrysler’s CEO, Marchionne said on March 30,
he has been working seven days a week and shuttling between
Turin, where Fiat is based, and Michigan.  
 “You can’t do this forever,” Marchionne said, adding that
reviving a car company after a trip through bankruptcy requires
relentless focus.  
 While IHS Global Insight’s Wolkonowicz acknowledges
Marchionne has a “very tough assignment,” he said the man who
turned around Fiat also could revive Chrysler.  
 “I think he’s doing everything humanly possible,” said
Wolkonowicz. “He’s 2 people in 1. He gets all of it.”  
 Ultimately, said Cantor Fitzgerald’s Pope, Marchionne will
be measured against Ghosn, who declined to be interviewed about
a competitor. While sales at Renault-Nissan have suffered in the
economic slump, analysts continue to praise the alliance’s
architect.  
 “He’s got a world-class ability to handle two big
companies,” said Yoshihiro Okumura, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $365 million at Chiba-gin Asset Management Co. in
Tokyo. “I’m not sure if there are others who can follow him.”  
 When asked about Ghosn, Marchionne called himself “just a
metal basher,” and said: “He’s much better than I am.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Gay Forden in Milan, Italy, via 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at   kinoue@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sergio Marchionne, chief executive officer of Fiat SpA and Chrysler LLC, listens during a Confindustria meeting in Parma, on April 9, 2010. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
