-- Argentina to Present $20 Billion Swap Prospectus This Week, Lorenzino Says
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-04-27T19:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/argentina-plans-debt-swap-presentations-next-week-finance-minister-says.html

          
          
             Argentina will by the end of this
week announce the opening of its restructuring of $20 billon in
defaulted debt held out of a 2005 settlement, Finance Secretary
Hernan Lorenzino said.  
 The government is waiting for approval from regulators in
Italy, home to tens of thousands of bondholders, to open the
offer, Lorenzino said in a telephone interview in Buenos Aires.
Regulators in Luxembourg approved the offer today, posting a
copy of the prospectus on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange Web
site.  
 “By the end of this week we’ll launch the offer, which
will begin next week,” with Argentine officials traveling to
meet with investors in New York next week, Lorenzino said.  
 The yield on Argentina’s 7 percent dollar bonds due 2015
rose 38 basis points, or 0.38 percentage point, to 11.93 percent
at 2:56 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg pricing data.
The bond’s price slid 1.29 cent to 81.24 cents on the dollar.  
 Emerging-market bonds plunged the most in 13 months as
credit-rating cuts for Greece and Portugal added to concern that
indebted European nations are moving closer to default, spurring
a selloff in riskier assets.  
 Argentina’s offer -- as measured in net-present value terms
-- is worth 51 cents on the dollar for institutional investors,
RBS Securities Inc. strategist Siobhan Morden said today. The
value of the first exchange, excluding interest on interest, was
59.63 cents on the dollar, Credit Suisse AG said.  
 Swap Offer Terms  
 Economy Minister Amado Boudou unveiled the general terms of
the restructuring on April 15. Argentina will offer investors
33.7 cents on the dollar for securities due in 2033, warrants
linked to gross domestic product, and pay past due interest with
8.75 percent dollar bonds due in 2017. The government will not
include past-due payments on the GDP warrants.  
 U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa ruled yesterday that
Argentina can make its offer directly to holders of defaulted
debt who are suing the republic, rejecting a request by the
bondholders’ lawyers to have the offer made through them.  
 “The judge decided that all of the bondholders have to
have the same opportunity to participate,” Lorezino said. “He
ruled in favor of not intervening in the swap.”  
 The government says a settlement with remaining creditors
will help Argentina regain market access and credibility among
investors nine years after the government defaulted on $95
billion of debt.  
 The peso slid 0.2 percent to 3.8787 per dollar today from
3.872 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Benson in Buenos Aires at 
 Abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        