-- Italian Financial Regulators Approve Argentina's Bond-Swap Plan, TN Says
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-04-27T22:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/argentina-says-italian-regulators-have-approved-20-billion-bond-swap-plan.html

          
          
             Regulators in Italy, home to about
one third of the creditors holding $20 billion in defaulted
Argentine bonds held out of a 2005 offer, have approved the
South American nation’s plan to restructure the debt.  
 “We are entering into a process to definitively end the
shame of 2001, when default was declared,” Argentine Economy
Minister Amado Boudou said in an interview with Buenos Aires-
based television news channel C5N. “We hope that with this
decision by the Consob that there are many individual
bondholders in Italy that can also get out of this problem,” he
said, referring to the Italian securities regulator.  
 Luxembourg also approved the offer today, posting a copy of
the prospectus on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange Web site.
Argentina’s offer -- as measured in net-present value terms --
is worth 51 cents on the dollar for institutional investors, RBS
Securities Inc. strategist Siobhan Morden said today. The value
of the first exchange, excluding interest on interest, was 59.63
cents on the dollar, Credit Suisse AG said.  
 A call to the Italian Embassy in Buenos Aires after office
hours went unanswered.  
 “By the end of this week we’ll launch the offer, which
will begin next week,” when Argentine officials plan to travel
to meet with investors in New York, Finance Secretary Hernan
Lorenzino said in a telephone interview in Buenos Aires earlier
today.  
 Swap Offer Terms  
 Boudou unveiled the general terms of the restructuring on
April 15. Argentina will offer investors 33.7 cents on the
dollar for securities due in 2033, warrants linked to gross
domestic product, and pay past due interest with 8.75 percent
dollar bonds due in 2017. The government will not include past-
due payments on the GDP warrants.  
 The government says a settlement with remaining creditors
will help Argentina regain market access and credibility among
investors nine years after the government defaulted on $95
billion of debt.  
 U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa ruled yesterday that
Argentina can make its offer directly to holders of defaulted
debt who are suing the republic, rejecting a request by the
bondholders’ lawyers to have the offer made through them.  
 ‘Opportunity to Participate’  
 “The judge decided that all of the bondholders have to
have the same opportunity to participate,” Lorezino said. “He
ruled in favor of not intervening in the swap.”  
 Italians hold about $6 billion of defaulted Argentine
bonds, according to Task Force Argentina, a Rome-based group
that says it represents 180,000 creditors who own $4.3 billion
worth of the securities.  
 The yield on Argentina’s 7 percent dollar bonds due 2015
rose 48 basis points, or 0.48 percentage point, to 12.08 percent
at 5:51 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg pricing data.
The bond’s price fell 1.63 cents to 80.73 cents on the dollar,
the lowest in seven weeks.  
 Emerging-market bonds plunged the most in 13 months as
credit-rating cuts for Greece and Portugal added to concern that
indebted European nations are moving closer to default, spurring
a selloff in riskier assets.  
 The peso slid 0.2 percent to 3.8787 per dollar today from
3.872 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Benson in Buenos Aires at 
 Abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        