-- Harper Must Reveal Canada Afghan Detainee Papers, Speaker Milliken Rules
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-04-27T21:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/harper-must-reveal-canada-afghan-detainee-papers-speaker-milliken-rules.html

          
          
             Canadian Prime Minister Stephen
Harper must reach an agreement with opposition parties on how to
release documents related to the country’s soldiers’ handling of
Afghan detainees, the Speaker of the House of Commons ruled
today.  
 Peter Milliken, a Liberal lawmaker who’s been responsible
for arbitrating debates and managing the flow of the legislative
process since 2001, the parties two weeks to reach the
agreement.  
 “We welcome the possibility of a compromise while
respecting our legal obligations as acknowledged by the
Speaker,” Justice Minister Rob Nicholson told reporters outside
Parliament. “The government will not knowingly break the laws
that were written and passed by Parliament; our government will
not compromise Canada’s national security nor will it jeopardize
the lives of our men and women in uniform.”  
 The opposition parties are seeking the documents to
establish whether the Canadian military handed Afghan detainees
to local authorities knowing they were likely to be tortured. A
Parliamentary committee controlled by opposition parties last
year demanded the government produce unedited documents about
the issue so it could continue its inquiry. Harper declined to
comply, citing national security.  
 Harper’s Conservative Party holds 144 of Parliament’s 308
seats, meaning it must get support from at least one opposition
party to pass laws or defeat opposition motions.  
 “On analyzing the evidence before it and the precedents,
the chair cannot but conclude that the government’s failure to
comply with the order of December 10, 2009 constitutes prima
facie a question of privilege,” Milliken said. “I will allow
house leaders, ministers and party critics time to suggest some
way of resolving the impasse for it seems to me we would fail
the institution if no resolution can be found.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandre Deslongchamps in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        