-- Maruti Suzuki, Reliance Lead Retreat as Sensex Index Ends Five-Day Rally
-- Rajhkumar K Shaaw
-- 2010-04-27T11:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/maruti-suzuki-reliance-lead-retreat-as-sensex-index-ends-five-day-rally.html

          
          
             India’s stocks fell, ending a five-
day rally, after the central bank governor said faster inflation
is a “big worry.” Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. and Reliance
Industries Ltd. declined following rating downgrades.  
 State Bank of India declined for a second day. The nation
needs to calibrate the withdrawal of fiscal and monetary
stimulus because private consumption and investment haven’t
fully recovered, central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said
yesterday. Carmaker Maruti slid to an eight-month low after
Morgan Stanley lowered it to “equal-weight,” citing higher
commodity prices and competitive pressures.  
 “More action by the Reserve Bank of India before the next
scheduled policy meeting cannot be ruled out,” said P. Phani
Sekhar, who manages funds for wealthy individuals at Angel
Broking Ltd. in Mumbai. “Rising commodity prices may hurt the
profitability of some companies.” The brokerage is ranked by
Dun & Bradstreet as having India’s biggest distribution network.  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
dropped 54.66, or 0.3 percent, to 17,690.62, ending its longest
winning streak since September. The gauge swung between gains
and losses at least 12 times. The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the
National Stock Exchange lost 0.3 percent to 5,308.35. The BSE
200 Index fell 0.2 percent to 2,237.27.  
 ‘Big Worry’  
 State Bank, the nation’s biggest lender, fell 1.5 percent
to 2,217.8 rupees. ICICI Bank Ltd., the country’s second-biggest
lender, lost 1.4 percent to 946.95 rupees  
 Jaiprakash Associates Ltd., a builder of dams, roads and
bridges, declined 3.9 percent to 152.85 rupees. DLF Ltd.,
India’s biggest developer, dropped 2.1 percent to 316.05 rupees.
Subbarao yesterday said inflation is a “big worry” and the
central bank plans to remove monetary stimulus in a gradual
manner to ensure sustained economic growth.  
 “Supply side inflation pressures are abating only
gradually, meanwhile demand-side pressures are building up,”
Subbarao said in a speech yesterday at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in Washington.  
 Maruti, the maker of half the cars sold in India, sank 3.8
percent to 1,283.3 rupees, its lowest since August 17. Binay
Singh, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, downgraded the stock to
“equal-weight” from “overweight.”  
 ‘Weak Margins’  
 Reliance Industries Ltd., owner of the world’s largest
refining complex, declined 0.9 percent to 1,061.25 rupees.
Sanford Bernstein & Co. cut the shares to “market perform”
from “outperform” on expectations of lower margins and a
slowdown in the development of new petroleum areas, and lowered
the share-price estimate to 1,160 rupees from 1,250.  
 “Refining margins will remain weak for longer,
petrochemical margins will be squeezed through new capacity
additions, and upstream growth will stall until the next phase
of developments come on-stream in 2014,” Neil Beveridge and
Angus Chan, Hong Kong-based Sanford Bernstein analysts, wrote in
a report today. “Slower upstream growth and weak downstream
margins will lower returns, which could erode Reliance’s
valuation premium.”  
 Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the nation’s largest state-owned
oil explorer, gained 2.7 percent to 1,044.9 rupees, its steepest
climb since Jan. 14. Gas and oil were found in an exploratory
well in western India, while oil was found in an offshore and an
onshore well in two other sites in the region, the company said
in a statement yesterday.  
 ‘Change Policies’  
 The “government needs to change its economic and strategic
policies” which are responsible for rising prices, Mayawati,
chief minister of India’s largest state, said today. Her
political party pledged to support the ruling Congress Party-led
alliance in a bid today by opposition lawmakers to scrap fuel
duties unveiled in Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee’s February
budget. The challenge fans concern the government may lack
support to implement policies.  
 Food-price inflation has stayed above 15 percent since
November, contributing to two interest rate increases in a month
by the Reserve Bank of India. The central bank on April 20
raised all the three policy rates by a quarter point, saying
“there is a need to ensure that demand-side inflation does not
become entrenched.”  
 Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd., the biggest copper
producer, retreated 1.6 percent to 829.1 rupees. Copper fell for
the first day in three as concerns potential delays in financial
aid for Greece drove investors away from metals. Three-month
delivery copper on the London Metal Exchange dropped as much as
1.4 percent.  
 Foreign Funds  
 Overseas investors bought a net 8.8 billion rupees ($197.6
million) of Indian stocks on April 23, taking their total
purchases of the equities this year to 285.2 billion rupees,
according to the nation’s market regulator.  
 Inflows from overseas reached a record 834.2 billion rupees
in 2009, exceeding the high set two years earlier in domestic
currency terms, as the biggest rally in 18 years lured foreign
funds. They sold a record 529.9 billion rupees of shares in 2008,
triggering a record annual decline.  
 The following were among the most active on the exchange:  
 Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI IN) soared 4.6 percent to 62.4
rupees, its highest more than two years. The infrastructure
development company was rated “overweight” in new coverage by
Shilpa Krishnan, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., with a 12-
month price estimate of 70 rupees per share.  
 Shipping Corp. of India Ltd. (SCI IN) rose 1.8 percent to
163.15 rupees. The state-owned company plans to spend about $1
billion in the year from April 1 to buy vessels, Chairman S.
Hajara said yesterday.  
 SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET IN) gained 2.9 percent to 59.6 rupees.
The low-cost carrier has received proposals for possible
investment from financial institutions and companies, the Mint
newspaper reported, citing two people it didn’t identify with
knowledge of the development. Chief Executive Officer Sanjay
Aggarwal wasn’t immediately available to comment when called at
his office.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        