-- Asian Currencies Halt Gains Near 2008 Highs Over Delay in Aid for Greece
-- Lilian Karunungan
-- 2010-04-27T09:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/asian-currencies-halt-gains-near-2008-highs-over-delay-in-aid-for-greece.html

          
          
             Asian currencies fell, retreating
from the highest levels in at least 19 months, after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said a rescue package for Greece wasn’t
guaranteed, reducing demand for emerging-market assets.  
 A technical gauge for the Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar
Index signaled the measure was poised to decline after rallying
to a 20-month high yesterday. Regional stocks dropped after
Merkel said yesterday she won’t release funds for Greece without
a “sustainable” plan to cut the shortfall. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell yesterday on concern about a proposed
overhaul of the U.S. financial system.  
 “Currencies are in a consolidation phase as mostly these
have factored in the Greece financial issue,” said Mirza Baig,
a foreign-exchange analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Singapore.
“The overnight weakness in equities, including the U.S.
markets,” affected Asian currencies, he said.  
 The won weakened 0.6 percent to 1,110.15 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency yesterday touched 1,102.85, its
strongest level since Sept. 12, 2008. The Philippine peso
dropped 0.5 percent to 44.417, and the Malaysian ringgit fell
0.1 percent to 3.1870.  
 The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
traded currencies excluding the yen, declined 0.1 percent after
yesterday reaching 113.29, the highest level since August 2008.
Its 14-day relative-strength index touched 69 yesterday, just
shy of the 70 level that signals the gauge may reverse direction.
The MSCI Asia-Pacific index of regional shares dropped 0.2
percent today.  
 Asian currencies have rallied this year, led by Malaysia’s
ringgit and India’s rupee, as the region’s economic recovery
attracts global investors to local assets. Prospects China will
revalue the yuan are also bolstering demand.  
 Korea GDP  
 The ringgit reached 3.1710 per dollar yesterday, the
highest level since May 2008, and the peso touched 44.158, the
strongest since August of that year.  
 South Korea’s gross domestic product growth exceeded
analysts’ estimates in the first quarter. GDP increased 1.8
percent from the final three months of last year, when it rose
0.2 percent, and beating the median forecast for a 1.5 percent
rise in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The won extended losses after the government said recent
gains in the currency were “excessive.” We will take measures
to counter “herd behavior” in the foreign-exchange market, Kim
Ik Joo, director-general at South Korea’s Ministry of Strategy
and Finance, said by phone today.  
 “The verbal intervention appears to be more effective than
actual moves for now because they know everyone in the market
wants to sell dollars,” said Lee Eung Joo, a trader at Daegu
Bank in Seoul. “This will only pause the strengthening
momentum.”  
 Europe Woes  
 Germany’s reluctance to guarantee aid for Greece has led to
concern a rescue package headed by the International Monetary
Fund may stall. Yields on Greece and Portugal’s bonds have
surged on concern the country’s credit woes will spread to other
nations in the European Union.  
 “Investors are nervous about the contagion risk from the
Greek situation, whether the other euro countries like Portugal
will also be similarly affected,” said Penn Nee Chow, an
economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “They are
just waiting to see how things will play out. Asian currencies
are still looking strong because of the very positive economic
indicators in Asia.”  
 Taiwan’s dollar declined on speculation the central bank
intervened to limit appreciation in the currency after overseas
investment into the island’s stocks drove the currency to a 20-
month high.  
 Taiwan Inflows  
 The central bank bought U.S. dollars and sold the local
currency in late trading as the South Korean won weakened,
according to two traders, who declined to be identified.
Taiwan’s dollar held gains for most of the day as funds based
abroad added to holdings of the island’s stocks to take
advantage of a planned trade accord with China.  
 A trade agreement with China “will help Taiwan’s exports
and the economy,” said Tarsicio Tong, a foreign-exchange trader
at Union Bank of Taiwan in Taipei. Capital inflows “will test
the defenses of the central bank” to prevent the currency from
rising beyond NT$31, he said.  
 The currency dropped 0.2 percent to NT$31.412 against its
U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It climbed as
much as 0.3 percent to NT$31.269, the highest level since August
2008, the same month the island’s dollar last broke NT$31.  
 Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou said April 25 that the next
round of talks with China will likely be held before the end of
the month or early in May.  
 Philippine Election  
 The Philippine peso declined on concern investors will trim
holdings of the nation’s assets in the run-up to next month’s
general election.  
 “Everyone is staying liquid as the election nears,” said
Yvette Marquez, who helps manage 470 billion pesos ($10.6
billion) at BPI Asset Management in Manila. “It’s always better
to be safe and hold off from investing until people are
convinced elections are credible.”  
 Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar and the Thai baht slipped
0.1 percent each versus the U.S. currency to S$1.3690 and 32.26,
respectively. The Indonesian rupiah was little changed at 9,008
and China’s yuan traded at 6.8257 from 6.8266 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        