-- Stocks, Commodities Fall on Concern Over China, Greece
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-04-27T07:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/asia-stocks-commodities-fall-on-concern-over-greek-bailout-china-economy.html

          
          
             Asian stocks declined, sending the
stock benchmark index in Shanghai to a seven-month low, and
commodities fell on signs governments in the region are trying
to stem overheating asset prices.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.2 percent to 127.01 at
4 p.m. in Tokyo. The South Korean won weakened to a one-week low
after the government said recent gains were “excessive.”
Copper and oil slipped while gold climbed as speculation a
bailout for Greece won’t stem the nation’s fiscal woes prompted
investors to seek the safest assets. The Stoxx Europe 600
decreased 0.3 percent to 269.31 at 8 a.m. in London. Futures for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 were little changed.  
 China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest developer, said
first-quarter profit plunged 53 percent from the previous three
months amid government measures to prevent a property bubble.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she won’t release funds for
Greece until it has a “sustainable” plan to reduce its deficit.  
 “Concerns about potential delays in financial aid for
Greece as well as further monetary tightening in China continue
to dampen investor sentiment,” said Michiya Tomita, a Hong
Kong-based fund manager for Mitsubishi UFJ Management Co., which
holds $65 billion in assets.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index retreated after yesterday’s 1.6
percent jump yesterday, its biggest gain since March 17. Stocks
in the index trade at 16.1 times estimated earnings, compared
with 15.2 times for the S&P 500, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The S&P fell 0.4 percent in regular trading yesterday.  
 Valuations ‘Expensive’  
 “Valuations are still expensive,” Tomita said. “We need
to see more earnings improvement.”  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index skidded 2.3 percent and is
set for the lowest close since Sept. 30. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index dropped 1.2 percent.  
 The won slid 0.6 percent to 1,110.15 per dollar, retreating
from near a 19-month high of 1,102.85 yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,114.45, the weakest
level since April 20.  
 The South Korean government will take measures to counter
herd behavior in the currency market, Kim Ik Joo, director-
general at the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, said by phone
today. Policy makers can try to influence exchange rates by
buying or selling currencies.  
 Japan’s currency traded at 125.47 against the euro in Tokyo
trading from 125.73 in New York yesterday. The euro was at
$1.3368 per dollar from $1.3383 yesterday.  
 There will be no decision on aid for Greece until the
International Monetary Fund works out a plan of cuts with the
government in Athens, Merkel told reporters yesterday in Berlin.
Germany will assist Greece only after it agrees to take
“tough” measures for the next several years, she said.  
 Germany, Greece  
 “There is concern that the German government may delay the
extension of financial aid for Greece,” said Akane Vallery
Uchida, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in Tokyo. “This led to resumed selling of the euro.”  
 Elpida Memory Inc., Japan’s biggest maker of computer
memory, lost 1.8 percent to 2,033 yen, while Hynix Semiconductor
Inc. slumped 3.5 percent to 27,500 won in Seoul. The spot price
for the benchmark dynamic random access memory chip sank 0.7
percent yesterday to the lowest level since March 22, according
to Dramexchange Technology Inc.  
 CSL Ltd., the world’s second-biggest maker of treatments
made from blood, fell 4.2 percent to A$32.50 after Credit Suisse
AG cut the stock to “neutral” from “outperform,” citing the
impact from U.S. health-care reforms. CSL tumbled 7.3 percent on
April 23 when it last traded, after larger rival Baxter
International Inc. cut its 2010 earnings forecast.  
 China Developer  
 China Vanke lost 1.5 percent to 7.6 yuan. The Shenzhen-
based developer yesterday said first-quarter profit reached 1.13
billion yuan ($165.5 million), down 53 percent from the three
months ended Dec. 31.  
 Concerns that government measures to cool the property
market would hurt home demand have dragged Vanke’s shares 29
percent lower this year. China has ordered higher mortgage rates
and larger down-payment ratios since property prices jumped 11.7
percent in March, the most since data began in 2005.  
 PetroChina Co. and Jiangxi Copper Co., the nation’s biggest
oil and copper producers, dropped more than 2.7 percent as
prices of crude and the metal declined. Inpex Corp., Japan’s
largest oil explorer, sank 1.3 percent to 690,000 yen.  
 Oil fell for a second day, dropping below $84 a barrel in
New York, as the dollar gained and analysts forecast that U.S.
crude supplies increased, signaling that fuel demand in the
world’s biggest energy user may be slow to recover.  
 Commodities Fall  
 Oil dropped 1.1 percent yesterday as the greenback advanced
on concern the Greek bailout plan faces hurdles. A stronger
dollar limits investor need for commodities to hedge against
inflation. U.S. crude inventories probably rose 1 million
barrels last week, according to analysts surveyed before an
Energy Department report tomorrow.  
 Copper for three-month delivery dropped 1.2 percent to
$7,720 per metric ton, declining for the first time in three
days.  
 The cost of protecting Asia-Pacific bonds from non-payment
increased, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  
 The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 3.5 basis points to
87 basis points in Sydney, according to ICAP Plc prices. The
risk benchmark is heading for the highest since March 22, when
it was 91.5 basis points, according to CMA DataVision prices.  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan increased 1 basis point to 99 basis
points in Singapore, Barclays Plc prices show. That index is on
track for the highest since April 22, according to CMA
DataVision. The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 1 basis point
to 95 in Tokyo, according to Morgan Stanley.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
Rocky Swift in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk past an electronic stock board outside a securities firm in Tokyo, on April 26, 2010. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Fan Gang, a former People’s Bank of China adviser, talked yesterday with Bloomberg's Susan Li in Hong Kong about China's measures to cool property prices and the nation's currency policy.
     Fan said James Chanos is overly pessimistic about China’s property market because the hedge fund manager underestimates government efforts to avoid a bubble. Chanos said earlier this month that China is on a "treadmill to hell" because it’s hooked on property development for driving growth. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Thomas Herrmann, a global economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about the prospect of Greece's debt crisis spreading to other euro-zone nations.
     Herrmann, speaking in Zurich, also discusses the delivery of the emergency aid package requested by Greece. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
