-- Massachusetts Sells $250 Million Tax-Exempt Water Bonds as Spreads Narrow
-- Allison Bennett
-- 2010-04-27T22:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/massachusetts-sells-250-million-water-bonds-as-tax-exempt-spread-narrows.html

          
          
             The Massachusetts Water Resources
Authority sold $283 million in tax exempts, $30 million more
than planned, as the yield spread below Treasuries on top-rated
municipal debt narrows from the widest this year.  
 The authority, which provides water and sewer services to
43 percent of the state’s residents, offered $100 million in
bonds today that will help fund construction and about $183
million in securities to refinance existing debt, all backed by
the agency’s revenue. The sale comes a day after Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said essential-services bonds, such as the
authority’s, are good alternatives to general obligations.  
 Top-rated 10-year tax-exempts yielded 3.19 percent today,
the lowest since March 26, according to a daily survey by
Municipal Market Advisors. The securities’ spread beneath
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries has narrowed to 50 basis
points, from 77 on March 24, as issuers sell more taxable Build
America Bonds. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “Spreads are continuing to tighten because BABs are taking
away supply from exempts,” said John Hallacy, a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch municipal strategist in New York. “It’s not a bad
time to consider tax exempts in the short- and intermediate-term
maturities, but there’s a lot of demand for the long-term.”  
 Bonds maturing in 2040, the single-biggest segment of the
Boston-based authority’s sale, priced to yield at 4.33 percent,
according to lead underwriter Citigroup Inc. Similar-maturity
securities from the authority’s last debt issuance in February
2009 traded at 4.44 percent earlier this month after being
priced to yield at 5.09 percent, according to the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board.  
 The sale will bring the authority’s total outstanding
borrowings to about $5.9 billion, below its legislatively
established limit of $6.45 billion, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  
 ‘Healthy Demand’  
 “It’s a combination of scheduling and just fortuitous
interest-rate movement,” Thomas Durkin, treasurer for the
authority, said in an interview from Boston before the sale.  
 Build Americas have become more popular among issuers
seeking to take advantage of the 35 percent interest-rate
subsidy from the federal government, said Ashton Goodfield, head
of municipal bond trading and a portfolio manager who helps
oversee about $29 billion of the securities at Deutsche Asset
Management in Boston.  
 Build America’s, created last year as part of the federal
economic stimulus program, are the fastest-growing part of the
$2.8 trillion municipal market. Issuers have sold about $97.5
billion of the bonds.  
 About 27 percent of state and local government debt issues
have been Build Americas this year, compared with 25 percent for
the last four months of 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Issuance of the taxable notes may reach $120 billion
this year, said Merrill’s Hallacy.  
 Smaller Returns  
 Municipal water debt has returned less than the overall
municipal market this year. The water securities have returned
2.06 percent, compared with the Municipal Master Index’s return
of 2.31 percent, according to BofA Merrill Lynch. The 731
offerings of the essential-services bonds yielded an average of
3.8 percent.  
 “Municipal water bonds are a sought-after sector because a
lot of investors see them as monopolies of the service they
deliver,” Hallacy said. “They’re able to raise rates and
charge as they see fit and generally the bonds have good stable
coverage in good economic times and bad.”  
 Moody’s said the Massachusetts authority plans to sell as
much as $200 million annually to support the $1.1 billion five-
year capital improvement program while it maintains several
reserve accounts, which totaled about $418 million in 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        