-- Massey, Argentina, Wal-Mart, Barclays, BA, Visa, Take-Two in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-04-27T11:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/massey-argentina-wal-mart-barclays-ba-visa-take-two-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was sued
by shareholders over a collateralized-debt obligation known as
Abacus 2007-AC1 that prompted a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission lawsuit this month.  
 Goldman Sachs didn’t disclose the truth about Abacus or the
bank’s financial condition, investors said in the complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. “As news of
Goldman’s misconduct reached the market, Goldman stock
immediately plummeted,” according to the complaint.  
 When the SEC sued Goldman Sachs on April 16, its shares
fell 13 percent to close at $160.70. That case centers on
whether the New York-based firm should have told investors that
hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick underlying securities in
the CDO -- and then bet against it. Paulson wasn’t accused of
wrongdoing.  
 “Defendants omitted and/or misrepresented material facts
concerning Goldman’s participation in structuring the CDO to
help one client who was short the CDO while simultaneously
selling the CDO to another client,” investors said in
yesterday’s complaint.  
 Investor Ilene Richman filed the lawsuit on behalf of
others who bought Goldman Sachs shares from Oct. 15 to April 16.  
 Michael DuVally, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, didn’t
return a call seeking comment yesterday.  
 The securities-fraud suit, filed by San Diego-based law
firm Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP, also names as defendants
Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chief
Financial Officer David A. Viniar and President Gary D. Cohn.  
 The case is Richman v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 10-03461,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Massey Energy Sued by Pension Fund Over Mine Accident  
 Massey Energy Co., the largest coal producer in central
Appalachia, was sued by a pension fund over claims that
directors’ failure to address poor safety conditions led to this
month’s accident that killed 29 miners.  
 Massey directors breached their fiduciary duties by
disregarding safety regulations and incurring more than $25
million in assessed violations by the U.S. Mine Safety and
Health Administration, the New Jersey Building Laborers Pension
Fund said in a complaint filed April 23 in Delaware Chancery
Court. The failure to act caused the company “severe
reputational harm,” the pension fund said.  
 “Given Massey’s chronic unwillingness and failure to
adhere to mining safety regulations, this tragedy did not come
as a surprise to many,” according to the fund. It asked for the
removal of Massey Chief Executive Officer Don Blankenship.  
 Massey officials didn’t return a phone call seeking comment
on the suit. Company director Bobby Inman said yesterday in a
news conference on benefits for the miners killed that
Blankenship has the “full support” of the board.  
 The April 5 explosion at the company’s Upper Big Branch
mine near Montcoal, West Virginia, caused the highest death toll
in a U.S. mining accident in 26 years. The cause hasn’t been
determined. Massey said it expects a second-quarter charge of as
much as $212 million as a result of the disaster.  
 The case is a so-called derivative suit, which would return
any recovery to the company. The fund asked for a court order
directing the board of directors to investigate and assess the
safety of all Massey mines and remove Blankenship.  
 The case is New Jersey Building Laborers Pension Fund v.
Blankenship, CA5430, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington)  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Barclays, Solent Win Dismissal of ‘Toxic’ SIVs Suit  
 Barclays Plc and Solent Capital Partners LLP won dismissal
of Oddo Asset Management’s lawsuit accusing them of using
structured investment vehicles as a “dumping ground for toxic
assets.”  
 New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick
dismissed all of Paris-based Oddo’s claims, according to a
ruling filed with the court yesterday.  
 “As Barclays contends, Oddo is a sophisticated entity in
the position of appreciating the inherent risks associated with
debt securities, including the fact that, under certain
circumstances, interest payments may cease and the principal may
be lost,” Kapnick said in her ruling dated April 23.  
 Oddo, a fund management unit of Oddo & Cie, sued Barclays
in state court in Manhattan in 2008, claiming the U.K.’s second-
biggest bank transferred subprime mortgage-backed securities at
“inflated prices” to two SIVs it had created, the Mainsail II
Ltd. and Golden Key Ltd. Oddo sought damages from Barclays for
allegedly aiding breaches of fiduciary duty by the SIVs’
managers, including London-based Solent Capital Partners LLP.  
 An Oddo representative couldn’t be reached for comment
after regular business hours yesterday. Lance Croffoot-Suede, a
lawyer for Barclays, didn’t return a voice-mail message left at
his office after regular business hours.  
 U.S. Judge Won’t Intervene in Argentine Swap Offer  
 Argentina can make an exchange offer directly to holders of
defaulted debt who are suing the republic, a U.S. judge ruled,
rejecting a request by the bondholders’ lawyers to have the
offer made through them.  
 U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in New York said
yesterday in a six-page order that he won’t interfere in the
swap offer to bondholders. At an April 15 hearing, Griesa said
he wanted to review details of the debt swap before deciding the
issue.  
 Siding with the bondholders’ lawyers “would involve the
court in actions which could mean the class members are deprived
of whatever opportunity the exchange offer affords,” Griesa
wrote.  
 Argentina’s planned exchange offer may help end the court
fight with investors who didn’t take part in a 2005 swap. About
20 percent of bondholders didn’t accept that exchange, which
paid about 33 cents on the dollar.  
 The government has proposed similar terms to its 2005
restructuring, granting bonds due in 2033 at a 66 percent
discount.  
 The case is Seijas v. Argentina, 04-cv-400, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Wal-Mart Workers Can Sue as Group in Gender Bias Case  
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. female workers suing the retailer for
discrimination won a ruling that said more than 1 million women
employees can collectively pursue claims seeking back pay in the
biggest private gender-bias case in U.S. history.  
 A decision yesterday by a federal appeals court in San
Francisco means women who have worked at Wal-Mart since 2001 can
be part of a single class-action suit over discrimination
claims, Brad Seligman, an attorney for the workers, said in a
phone interview. The court considered whether the experiences of
six original plaintiffs in the case may be common among other
female workers. Potential plaintiffs exceed 1 million, he said.  
 In a 6-5 ruling, the court sent claims for punitive damages
and those of employees who had left Wal-Mart when the lawsuit
was filed back to a judge in San Francisco for decisions about
whether those allegations can be included in the group case. If
all current and former workers were included, the case would
cover about 2.5 million women. Their claims could amount to
billions of dollars.  
 Wal-Mart General Counsel Jeff Gearhart said in a statement
that the discrimination claims by the six women who originally
filed suit in 2001 aren’t representative of the experiences of
the company’s female workers.  
 “We disagree with the decision of the sharply divided 6-5
court to uphold portions of the certification order,” Gearhart
said.  
 Ted Boutrous, an attorney representing Wal-Mart, said the
company will ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review the ruling. If
it’s not reversed, yesterday’s decision would lead to “massive
litigation” against U.S. companies, Boutrous said in a
conference call.  
 The case is Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 04-16688, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  
 For more, click here.  
 Antiguan Charged in Stanford Case Ordered to U.S.  
 Antigua’s former top banking regulator, Leroy King, was
ordered extradited to the U.S. to face charges he helped
financier R. Allen Stanford conceal a $7 billion fraud scheme,
Antigua’s top prosecutor said.  
 Director of Public Prosecutions Anthony Armstrong said that
Chief Magistrate Ivan Walters ordered King removed to the U.S.
in a decision issued yesterday. Armstrong, who argued for the
removal, said King has 15 days to appeal the decision to the
nation’s High Court.  
 King was formerly chief executive officer of Antigua and
Barbuda’s Financial Services Regulatory Commission. He has been
under house arrest in Antigua since June, when he was indicted
by a federal grand jury in Houston for allegedly accepting
bribes from Stanford to mislead U.S. securities regulators.  
 His lawyer, Dane Hamilton Sr. of St. John’s, Antigua, did
not return a call seeking comment on the court’s ruling. Andy
Laine, a spokesman for the U.S. State Department, said he could
not immediately comment.  
 U.S. prosecutors allege Stanford and his co-conspirators
took money from new investors to repay earlier investors who
bought allegedly bogus certificates of deposit from the Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  
 The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Lehman Director Doesn’t Recall Barclays Profit Talks  
 A Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. director said he didn’t
remember any discussion that Barclays Plc might profit from its
purchase of Lehman’s brokerage after the securities firm
collapsed in 2008.  
 Michael Ainslie, the former chairman of Sotheby’s and a
Lehman director since 1996, was the first witness in a trial
that began yesterday over whether Barclays should pay as much as
$11 billion to Lehman for the “windfall” the bank received
when it bought the brokerage.  
 The fight in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan before
Judge James Peck pits the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, which more
than doubled its profit last year, against Lehman, which wants
money to pay off creditors and brokerage customers. Lehman said
Barclays failed to tell the court how much money it made on the
deal, which was sealed in the wake of Lehman’s bankruptcy, the
biggest in U.S. history.  
 Ainslie said in response to questions from Barclays lawyer
David Boies of New York-based Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP, that
he didn’t recall “any discussion of the possibility” that
Barclays might profit from the deal. Boies was trying to show
that Lehman’s advisers didn’t fully inform the bank’s directors
about the deal as it was altered, nor did they ask questions
about it.  
 Ainslie said he voted for the brokerage sale to Barclays
because it was the alternative to liquidation. Lehman lawyer
Robert Gaffey has said he can show that key individuals were
kept in the dark about the profitability of the Barclays deal.  
 After potential buyers for the whole of Lehman lost
interest -- including Barclays -- the U.S. Federal Reserve and
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission told Lehman’s board
on Sept. 14, 2008, that its best course would be to file for
bankruptcy, Ainslie said. Ainslie said the regulators referred
the board to advice they had given Lehman’s then-chief executive
Richard Fuld to file for bankruptcy. Barclays became a bidder
for just the brokerage after the filing.  
 Boies showed a slide of a draft of the minutes of a Lehman
board meeting in September 2008 just after the filing, saying
that liabilities Barclays was assuming were more than $5 billion
less than the assets it was taking on.  
 Ainslie, who was a member of the Lehman board’s audit
committee, said he only recalled statements saying the assets
and liabilities would be roughly equal.  
 “It is inconsistent with what I recall we were told at the
meeting,” he said. Questioned by Boies, he said he didn’t know
if people Barclays was employing from Lehman were considered an
asset or a liability.  
 Barclays began the hearing by seeking documents from its
adversaries the bank claims it needs to assess their
understanding of the brokerage sale. Peck delayed making a
ruling on the request.  
 The cases are In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, and James W. Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc., 09-01732,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 BA Sales Chief, Ex-Managers Face Price-Fixing Charges  
 Three former British Airways Plc executives and one current
manager faced claims at a criminal trial that began yesterday
over scheming with Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. to fix fuel
surcharges on trans-Atlantic flights.  
 The carriers colluded from July 2004 through April 2006 to
match fees charged to passengers to cover rising fuel costs, the
U.K.’s antitrust regulator said at the trial in Southwark Crown
Court in London.  
 Andrew Crawley, British Airways’ head of sales; Martin
George, a former board member; Iain Burns, ex-head of
communications; and Alan Burnett, former head of U.K. and
Ireland sales, pleaded not guilty in July 2009. Virgin’s
employees won immunity by admitting their roles in the scheme.  
 “The crucial element of the offense to remember is
dishonesty,” prosecutor Richard Latham told the jury of eight
men and four women. In such cases, “the consumer is blissfully
unaware that they’re paying more; every purchaser is a victim.”  
 The case was brought by the Office of Fair Trading, the
U.K. antitrust watchdog, and is being heard by Judge Robert
Owen. The men each face as many as five years in prison if found
guilty of operating a cartel with the competing carrier.  
 No Virgin employees were charged because the Crawley,
England-based company cooperated with prosecutors, Latham said.  
 Such deals are often the only way to uncover cartels, since
the schemes can be arranged in quick phone conversations and are
easily disguised as “price-matching,” which is legal, he said.  
 Giving immunity to Virgin was a “necessary evil,” he
said. “Bringing a cartel to an end outweighs prosecuting all
parties involved.”  
 Virgin Chief Executive Stephen Ridgway and at least two
other former Virgin executives were aware of the scheme and will
be “important” witnesses in the case, Latham said. Virgin’s
owner, billionaire Richard Branson, was also made aware of the
price arrangements, Latham said.  
 British Airways received a total of 64 million pounds from
the fuel surcharges from the second half of 2004 and the first
half of 2005, Latham said. Detailed figures on surcharge revenue
from the whole period weren’t provided.  
 For more, click here.  
 Violent Video Game Law Gets Top U.S. Court Hearing  
 The U.S. Supreme Court will consider reviving a California
law prohibiting sales of violent video games to minors, agreeing
to review a ruling that the ban is an unconstitutional
infringement on freedom of speech.  
 The nation’s highest court yesterday accepted an appeal by
California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and Attorney General
Jerry Brown. They argue that violent games are akin to sexual
materials, which the government can restrict to protect
children.  
 “This is an important issue with national implications,
particularly in light of the growing evidence that these games
harm minors and that industry self-regulation through the
existing rating system has proven ineffective,” Schwarzenegger
and Brown argued.  
 Two industry trade groups, the Entertainment Merchants
Association and the Entertainment Software Association,
challenged the law and urged the Supreme Court not to hear the
California appeal. Members of the two groups include Electronic
Arts Inc., Microsoft Corp., Sony Corp. and Take-Two Interactive
Software Inc., the maker of “Grand Theft Auto” games.  
 “EMA obviously would have preferred that the Supreme Court
decline review,” said Bo Andersen, the trade group’s president.
“We are confident, however, that when the Supreme Court
conducts its review, it will conclude that the lower court
correctly analyzed the law and reached the appropriate
conclusion.”  
 A San Francisco-based federal appeals court said the state
hadn’t produced enough evidence that violent games cause
physical and psychological harm to minors. The ruling upheld the
decision of a federal trial judge.  
 The case is Schwarzenegger v. Video Software Dealers, 08-
1448, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Altria, Reynolds, Liggett Lose $20 Million Verdict  
 Altria Group Inc.’s Philip Morris USA and two other
cigarette makers lost a $20 million verdict in Florida state
court in Fort Lauderdale.  
 A six-person jury yesterday found Philip Morris, R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. and Liggett Group responsible for the
cancer death of Margot Putney, a Lighthouse Point, Florida,
woman who began smoking in about 1953 at the age of 15 and died
in 1995.  
 “She started smoking in an era where cigarette advertising
was pervasive, on TV -- in its infancy -- in print media and on
radio,” Charles Baumberger, a lawyer representing three Putney
children, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  
 The verdict follows a series of losses by the tobacco
industry in Florida after a 2006 ruling by the state’s Supreme
Court in the “Engle” tobacco class action case. In its
decision, the Florida high court decertified a statewide class
of addicted smokers and permitted individual suits to go
forward.  
 Jurors reached the verdict after deliberating less than
four hours last week and this morning, Baumberger said.  
 The jury awarded Putney’s family $20 million in
compensatory damages. Jurors assigned 35 percent of the
responsibility to Putney for her death; 15 percent to Philip
Morris; 30 percent to Reynolds; and 20 percent to Liggett.
Jurors also assessed $2.5 million in punitive damages each
against Philip Morris and Reynolds.  
 In most of the post-Engle cases, the compensatory portion
of the award has been reduced by the plaintiffs’ percentage of
responsibility as found by the jurors. Baumberger said the issue
hasn’t yet been determined in the Putnam case.  
 “We believe this verdict should be reversed because the
court’s trial plan improperly eliminated any requirement that
plaintiff prove that the companies did anything wrong to recover
damages,” Murray Garnick, Altria senior vice president and
associate general counsel said in a statement.  
 David Howard, a spokesman for Reynolds American Inc.’s R.J.
Reynolds unit said the company is disappointed in the verdict
and will appeal. Carrie Bloom, a spokeswoman for Liggett, a unit
of Vector Group Ltd., didn’t return a voicemail message seeking
comment on the verdict.  
 The case is Putney v. Philip Morris USA, Florida Circuit
Court (Fort Lauderdale).  
 Visa Europe Offers to Settle EU’s Card-Fees Case  
 Visa Europe Ltd., operator of the largest payment-card
network in the 27-nation European Union, offered to reduce debit
card transaction fees paid by retailers in a bid to resolve an
EU antitrust case.  
 The European Commission said it may close its investigation
into debit-card charges after Visa Europe promised “to
significantly cut” fees to 0.2 percent. A separate probe into
fees for credit-card and deferred-debit transactions, where
customers must settle their bills at the end of the month, will
continue, the Brussels-based agency said.  
 “This does not mean that the Visa case is over,” Amelia
Torres, a commission spokeswoman told journalists at a regular
briefing in Brussels yesterday. “We still have an investigation
concerning credit cards and that continues.”  
 Out of 390 million Visa-branded cards in Europe, about 256
million are debit cards, the London-based company said. The so-
called interchange fee, based on Visa’s guidelines, is paid by
the retailer’s bank to the bank that issued the customer’s card.
MasterCard Inc. settled a similar case with the commission last
year, agreeing to reduce the interchange fee to 0.3 percent a
transaction for credit cards and 0.2 percent a transaction for
debit cards.  
 “In proposing these commitments Visa Europe has acted in
the best interests of consumers, retailers and our member
banks,” said Peter Ayliffe, president of Visa Europe, in a
statement yesterday.  
 The commission will seek comments on the debit-card
proposals before formally adopting the commitments.  
 EuroCommerce, a group representing retailers such as
Carrefour SA and Tesco Plc, said the commission had accepted a
“weak interim compromise” only on debit card fees.  
 “We are very disappointed that the commission has opted
for this marginal way out on Visa,” Xavier Durieu,
EuroCommerce’s secretary general, said in a statement. “Since
EuroCommerce lodged the first complaints 13 years ago, neither
Visa nor MasterCard have brought convincing justification for
interchange fees on card transactions.”  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        