-- AstraZeneca to Pay $520 Million to Settle Off-Label Drug Probe With U.S.
-- Justin Blum
-- 2010-04-27T20:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/astrazeneca-will-pay-520-million-to-settle-u-s-probe-over-drug-marketing.html

          
          
             AstraZeneca Plc agreed to pay $520
million to resolve U.S. allegations that it illegally marketed
the schizophrenia drug Seroquel for uses that weren’t approved
by regulators.  
 AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker, promoted
Seroquel to doctors for unapproved uses including aggression,
Alzheimer’s disease and anger management, the Justice Department
said today in a statement. The payment is the largest settlement
by a company in a strictly civil case involving unapproved
marketing claims for drugs.  
 “What they did endangered patients and drives up health
costs,” said Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of the Health and
Human Services Department, at a news conference at the Justice
Department in Washington.  
 With sales of $4.87 billion last year, the drug was the
company’s second-biggest seller after the ulcer medicine Nexium.
The agreement follows similar settlements by drugmakers
including New York-based Pfizer Inc. and Eli Lilly & Co. of
Indianapolis.  
 AstraZeneca’s American depositary receipts, each
representing one ordinary share, fell $1.33, or 3 percent, to
$43.58 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  
 AstraZeneca’s Denial  
 AstraZeneca denies the allegations, the company said in a
statement. The company entered into a corporate integrity
agreement with the U.S. that will last for five years, the
statement said.  
 “It is in the best interest of AstraZeneca to resolve
these matters and to move forward with our business of
discovering and developing important, life-changing medicines
while avoiding the delay, uncertainty and expense of protracted
litigation,” said Glenn Engelmann, the company’s U.S. general
counsel, in the statement.  
 The agreement is part of an effort by the Obama
administration to crack down on health-care fraud, said Attorney
General Eric Holder at the news conference.  
 AstraZeneca, based in London, paid kickbacks to doctors it
recruited to serve as authors of articles about unapproved uses
of the drug that were actually written by the company and its
agents, according to the Justice Department. The company also
paid doctors to travel to resorts to advise on marketing
messages for unapproved uses, the department said.  
 Unapproved Uses  
 AstraZeneca promoted unapproved uses by influencing the
content of company-sponsored medical education programs,
according to the Justice Department. The company promoted the
drug for use in the elderly and children, said Sebelius.  
 The Food and Drug Administration clears drugs for safety
and effectiveness. Doctors may prescribe medicines for
unapproved uses. Companies are barred from marketing them for
uses not cleared by regulators.  
 The government’s investigation was triggered by a
whistleblower lawsuit filed in Pennsylvania, according to the
Justice Department.  
 AstraZeneca said in October that it had reached an
“agreement in principle” to settle allegations it marketed
Seroquel for unapproved uses.  
 AstraZeneca is facing as many as 26,000 lawsuits over
Seroquel, according to court filings. The company in March won
the first of the cases to come to court. The suits claim the
drug caused diabetes, and many also claim the company promoted
Seroquel, approved for schizophrenic and bipolar patients, for
uses that hadn’t been approved on the drug’s label.  
 Seroquel is approved by U.S. regulators for use in treating
adults and adolescents with bipolar disorder or schizophrenia
and as an add-on therapy for adults taking antidepressants.  
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc is the U.K.’s largest drugmaker.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     AstraZeneca Plc's Seroquel schizophrenia medication is arranged for a picture at Skenderian Apothecary in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in this file photo. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg .  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
