-- Austria's Lenzing Could Win Renewed EU Duties on Furfuraldehyde From China
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-04-27T08:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/austria-s-lenzing-could-win-renewed-eu-duties-on-furfuraldehyde-from-china.html

          
          
             The European Union may renew a 15-
year-old tariff on a chemical substance from China used to make
lubricating oils and foundry molds in a bid to help EU producers
including Austria’s Lenzing AG compete with lower-cost imports.  
 The EU said it would reconsider letting lapse the duty on
furfuraldehyde of 352 euros ($470) a metric ton. The levy
punishes Chinese exporters for selling furfuraldehyde in Europe
below cost, a practice known as dumping.  
 The review will determine whether the expiration of the
trade protection “would be likely, or unlikely, to lead to a
continuation of dumping and recurrence of injury,” the European
Commission, the EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in
the Official Journal. The duty was due to expire this week and
will now stay in place during the probe, which can last as long
as 15 months.  
 The investigation stems from a Jan. 28 request by Lenzing
and Slovenia-based Tanin Sevnica kemicna industrija dd, which
together account for more than half of the EU’s production of
furfuraldehyde, the commission said. The two companies say that
letting the levy lapse would lead to renewed dumping by Chinese
exporters and injury to the EU industry, according to the
commission.  
 The EU introduced the duty in January 1995, reimposed the
levy for four years in December 1999, kept it in place after
December 2003 while conducting a review of the expiration and
then prolonged the measure for five years in April 2005.  
 Furfuraldehyde, which comes from agricultural waste, is
used as a selective solvent in petroleum refining for the
production of lubricating oils and as a raw material for
processing into furfural alcohol, used to make synthetic resin
for foundry molds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        