-- Australian First-Quarter Producer Prices Rise at Fastest Pace Since 2008
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-04-27T02:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/australian-producer-prices-increased-1-in-first-quarter-on-building-costs.html

          
          
             Prices paid to Australian producers
rose in the first quarter by the most in more than a year as
costs for building and petroleum refining increased.  
 The producer prices index advanced 1 percent from the
fourth quarter, when it fell 0.4 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The median estimate of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.6 percent gain. The
index dropped 0.1 percent from a year earlier.  
 Governor Glenn Stevens signaled last week that the central
bank is looking for signs of inflation as it gauges when to
extend a world-leading round of interest-rate increases.
Inflation and borrowing costs will climb as economic growth
accelerates, led by resource-exporting regions such as Western
Australia, Canberra-based Access Economics said today.  
 Today’s report is a sign of “future pipeline pressures,”
said Su-Lin Ong, senior economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in
Sydney, who correctly forecast the quarterly figure. “We know
those pressure are going to get stronger with an economy that’s
running above trend” and with unemployment falling, she added.  
 The Australian dollar traded at 92.58 U.S. cents at 12:13
p.m. in Sydney from 92.70 cents just before the report was
released. The two-year government bond yield slipped 1 basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.89 percent.  
 The cost of petroleum refining advanced 8.1 percent in the
first quarter and building construction prices gained 0.6,
today’s report showed. Utilities such as electricity and gas
rose 3.3 percent.  
 Inflation Target  
 Annual inflation probably accelerated to 2.8 percent in the
three months through March from 2.1 percent in the previous
quarter, according to the median estimate of 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Inflation figures will be published
tomorrow at 11:30 a.m. in Sydney.  
 Stevens, who aims to keep inflation between 2 percent and 3
percent on average, said last week that lending rates are
“pretty close” to average, after he boosted the benchmark rate
to 4.25 percent this month.  
 This month’s move was the fifth time in six meetings that
policy makers increased the overnight cash rate target by a
quarter percentage point, citing evidence of a rebound in the
nation’s economy as companies expand projects including Chevron
Corp.’s Gorgon gas project in Western Australia.  
 “The return to rapid industrialization in the likes of
China has led to a boost in key commodity prices which is
transforming Australia’s outlook,” said Access Director Chris
Richardson today. “By late 2010, and in 2011, Australia may
find itself back where it was in mid-2008 -- both a beneficiary
and a victim of a fully fledged resources boom.”  
 Investors are betting there is a 26 percent chance of a
quarter-point increase in the overnight cash rate target to 4.5
percent at the central bank’s next meeting on May 4, according
to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures on the
Sydney Futures Exchange at 12:05 p.m. Chances of a quarter-point
move by early July are at 94 percent.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        