-- Australia Delays Carbon Trading Plan Consideration to Late 2012, Rudd Says
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-04-27T06:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/australia-to-delay-action-on-carbon-trading-plan-until-2012-rudd-says.html

          
          
             Australia will shelve its carbon
trading plan and assess actions taken by other nations at the
end of 2012, the end date for the Kyoto accord on climate change,
Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said today.  
 “Slow progress in the realization of global action on
climate change” and opposition in the Australian parliament
“inevitably mean the implementation of a carbon pollution
reduction scheme in Australia will be delayed,” Rudd told
reporters in Sydney in comments broadcast on Sky News.  
 The failure of the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme to cut
emissions by 5 percent comes almost four months after some 190
countries were unable to agree on a binding greenhouse gas
treaty at United Nations talks in Copenhagen.  
 Rudd’s legislation was blocked in the Senate by the Greens
party and the Liberal-National coalition last year, creating a
possible trigger for an early election. It also split the
opposition, leading to the resignation of Liberal leader Malcolm
Turnbull, who staked his position on a deal struck with Rudd
last year to support the climate-change bill.
     “This is really bad for Australian business because it
increases the uncertainty, and it’s bad for international
policy,” Warwick McKibbin, a central bank board member and
director of the research school of economics at the Canberra-
based Australian National University, said in a phone
interview. “The problem with this whole debate in Australia is
that we were fixated on targets and timetables and grandiose
problems to satisfy Kyoto requirements when Kyoto is no longer
relevant.”  
 Obama’s Legislation  
 President Barack Obama’s cap-and-trade legislation to limit
carbon dioxide emissions that scientists have linked to climate
change and set up a market in pollution allowances, similar to
the European Union’s emissions-trading system, narrowly passed
the U.S. House last year and stalled in the U.S. Senate.  
 Waiting and judging actions by other countries “before
taking our decision about implementation of a carbon pollution
reduction scheme” is the best way to meet this “fundamental
economic and environmental” challenge, said Rudd, who must set
a date for national elections within a year.  
 “A carbon trading scheme is the most effective and least
expensive way of acting on climate change,” Rudd said, adding
that Australia’s Labor government remained committed to targets
on reducing greenhouse gas emissions.  
 Global Leadership  
 Rudd has “thrown away any claims to global leadership on
climate action,” Greens Deputy Leader, Senator Christine Milne,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Today’s decision can only hold
back global talks.”  
 Rudd’s climate plan would have taxed companies with high
emissions like energy, steel and cement makers and offset the
charges with free emissions permits and financial compensation.
The assistance package would have cost the government A$20
billion ($18.5 billion), the Grattan Institute, a Melbourne-
based think-tank, said in a report on April 22.  
 Countries should be committing to a carbon price, not a
target for emission cuts, McKibbin said.  
 “It’s all about managing risk and the policy makers, for
some reason, don’t understand that,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Marion Rae in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        