-- Public Pension Bills Leave U.S. Taxpayers in `Hole,' Hawaii Governor Says
-- Michael M. Marois
-- 2010-04-27T14:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/hawaii-governor-lingle-says-public-action-needed-to-limit-pension-benefits.html

          
          
             Future U.S. economic growth may be
threatened by increases in public-employee pension liabilities,
according to Hawaii Governor Linda Lingle.  
 “Until the public rises up and says, ‘Enough is enough,
you have to stop this spending,’ it won’t stop, and our quality
of life will degrade,” Lingle, 56, said of government-paid
retirement benefits.  
 U.S. public-worker retirement systems are underfunded by
more than $2 trillion, according to a January estimate by Orin
S. Kramer, chairman of New Jersey’s State Investment Council and
manager of the Boston Provident Partners hedge fund.
California’s three biggest state pension funds are as much as
$500 billion short of meeting promises made to future retirees,
a Stanford University report said on April 5, while a Manhattan
Institute study said U.S. teacher pensions have a $332 billion
gap.  
 Lingle, a Republican, said most politicians won’t take the
necessary steps to rein in retirement costs without prodding
from voters. “It’s just a point in our history where the public
has to stand up,” she said. “Let’s not get into a hole we can
never get out of.”  
 Hawaii’s chief executive was one of three governors to
discuss pensions, job creation and education issues on a panel
yesterday during the Milken Institute annual Global Conference
in Los Angeles. Also on the panel were Wisconsin’s Jim Doyle, a
Democrat, and Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, a Republican.  
 California Rollback  
 Schwarzenegger said he’s asking state unions and
legislators to roll back retirement benefits for new hires to
pre-1999 levels. In that year, California increased its
retirement packages for government workers.  
 California’s contributions to employee-retirement plans
have increased to $3 billion a year from $150 million 10 years
earlier, Schwarzenegger said. In that time, revenues have risen
just 26 percent, he said.  
 “Eventually, it will go up to $10 billion,” he said of
state benefit payments. “We’re negotiating with labor. We’re
negotiating with legislators so we don’t have this.”  
 Wisconsin is in a better position than many states in terms
of retirement liabilities, according to Doyle. The state’s
pensions are 99 percent funded, even after the past few years of
equity market tumult, he said.  
 4 Percent Cut  
 Wisconsin doesn’t have defined benefits that must be
delivered to pay retirees. A state board, not politicians, sets
benefit levels. The board has required plan members to take a 4
percent cut in payments as the pension fund’s investments
declined in the past few years, according to Doyle.  
 “Wisconsin’s an example of how you do it right,” Doyle
said. “This is something built into our culture.”  
 Hawaii’s Lingle said politicians in a previous
administration had taken advantage of a strong economy by
shifting $100 million from the pension fund to cover general-
fund expenses. State employees receive benefits that are unusual
in the private sector, including lifetime health care for
retirees and their spouses, she said.  
 Changes in pension benefits won’t come from politicians,
she said.  
 “They don’t get into office to stop spending money,”
Lingle said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net  and Michael Marois in Los Angeles at  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Linda Lingle, governor of Hawaii  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A file photo shows Linda Lingle, governor of Hawaii, speaking on day three of the Republican National Convention (RNC) at the Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul, Minnesota. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A file photo shows Linda Lingle, governor of Hawaii, speaking on day three of the Republican National Convention (RNC) at the Xcel Energy Center in St. Paul, Minnesota. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
