-- Hayward Says BP Will Be Paid in Crude Oil for Iraq Field Investment Costs
-- Will Kennedy
-- 2010-04-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/hayward-says-bp-will-be-paid-in-crude-oil-for-iraq-field-investment-costs.html

          
          
             BP Plc will be paid in crude for
its investment costs in an Iraqi contract that offers about the
same rate of return as other projects worldwide, Chief Executive
Officer Tony Hayward said.  
 BP and China National Petroleum Corp. are spending about
$15 billion in Rumaila, Iraq’s largest oil deposit, pledging to
more than double production to at least 2.85 million barrels a
day in the second half of this decade. Hayward predicted the
company will reach an initial goal of raising output 10 percent
in the next 18 months.  
 “We think the terms are perfectly good terms that will
allow us to earn returns commensurate with returns elsewhere in
our portfolio,” Hayward said yesterday at a briefing for
reporters. “The cost of developing this oil is very low.”  
 The deal that BP and CNPC reached with Iraq’s government
last year pays the companies’ costs plus a service fee of $2 a
barrel, a rate that some analysts say doesn’t offer sufficient
rewards given security concerns and the risk of political
instability in Iraq.  
 “The nature of the contract is that after the first
increment of 100,000 barrels a day has been achieved, then we go
immediately into cost recovery,” Hayward said, speaking from
Washington. “At that stage, essentially every dollar that goes
in comes out in the same year.”  
 Base Production  
 BP and CNPC agreed to a base production for Rumaila of
1.066 million barrels a day. After the initial target of
increasing output by 100,000 barrels day, the oil companies
promised to boost output to 2.85 million barrels a day. BP’s
head of production Andy Inglis has said Rumaila may become the
world’s second-largest field by 2015.  
 BP and CNPC awarded $500 million of oilfield services
contracts last month for Rumaila to Schlumberger Ltd.,
Weatherford International Ltd., Iraqi Drilling Co. and China’s
Daqing Drilling. BP said it is building from the operation it
inherited at the field.  
 “We benefit enormously from the fact that we inherit a
going concern,” Hayward said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        