-- Baker Hughes Wins $25 Million in Damages in Varel Lawsuit Over Drill Bit
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-04-27T21:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/baker-hughes-wins-25-million-in-damages-in-varel-lawsuit-over-drill-bit.html

          
          
             Baker Hughes Inc. was awarded
$25 million in damages by a Texas state-court jury that found
Varel International Energy Services cloned a best-selling drill
bit from stolen designs.  
 Varel earned $5.9 million in profits from the trade secrets
and avoided $1.5 million in research and development costs by
copying the drill bit in 2004, according to the verdict posted
today on the Houston court’s Web site. Jurors also awarded
exemplary damages of $17.8 million, or triple the profit figure,
after finding that Varel acted with malice.  
 The damages weren’t disclosed on April 22, when the jury
findings in Baker Hughes’s favor were announced after a two-week
trial. Judge Dan Hinde had ordered the courtroom closed and all
evidence sealed at Baker Hughes’s request to prevent further
dissemination of the company’s trade secrets.  
 Michael Sutton, a lawyer for Houston-based Baker Hughes,
and Penn Huston, attorney for Carrollton, Texas-based Varel
International, declined to comment on the verdict, citing the
judge’s order sealing the case.  
 “Varel wishes to express its sincere regret and apology to
Baker Hughes for its use of a Baker Hughes roller-cone layout in
2004,’’ Varel said in a statement issued after the verdict was
reached. “Varel acknowledges that its use of the document was
wrong.’’  
 Varel License  
 Before the verdict, Baker Hughes granted Varel a license
“to the information at issue so that Varel can continue to sell
the drill bits in question,’’ according to the statement. Terms
of the agreement weren’t disclosed.  
 Baker Hughes requested an injunction banning the sale of
Varel’s cloned bits when it sued in November. The company
accused Varel managers, who formerly worked at Baker Hughes, of
stealing design specifications and ordering a Varel engineer to
use them to copy the 7 7/8-inch tricone drill bit.  
 The engineer was ordered to shred the stolen designs after
the project was completed. Instead, he provided the materials to
Baker Hughes after leaving Varel last year.  
 Varel had 2008 sales of $276 million, according to its Web
site. A unit of Arcapita Inc. acquired the company in November
2007 for $369 million. Baker Hughes had 2009 net income of $421
million on sales of $9.66 billion.  
 The case is Baker Hughes v. Varel Holdings Inc., 2009-
75553, 269th Judicial District Court of Harris County, Texas
(Houston).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        