-- Bank of China First-Quarter Profit Rises 41% on Loans, Beating Estimates
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-27T09:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/bank-of-china-posts-3-8-billion-first-quarter-net-higher-than-estimated.html

          
          
             Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s
third-largest lender by market value, said first-quarter profit
rose 41 percent, aided by rising demand for loans and fee-based
services.  
 Net income climbed to 26.23 billion yuan ($3.8 billion), or
0.10 yuan a share, from 18.57 billion yuan, or 0.07 yuan a year
earlier, Beijing-based Bank of China said in a statement today.
Profit beat the 25 billion yuan average estimate of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Bank of China and larger rivals Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. and China Construction Bank Corp. benefited
from an economy that grew 11.9 percent last quarter, driving
demand for everything from mortgages to trade finance. Still,
government moves to crack down on asset bubbles fueled by record
credit may cause an increase in bad debts, said Tang Yayun, an
analyst at Northeast Securities Co.  
 “Without any policy shock, Chinese banks can report very
stable profit growth till 2012,” Tang said before the earnings
announcement. “But the tide was shifting fast over the past two
weeks with all those tightening measures hitting hard on the
property market and eventually the banks and probably the
economy.”  
 China’s government raised down-payment requirements and
mortgage rates on second home purchases on April 15, after the
nation’s economy expanded at the fastest pace in three years in
the first quarter and property prices jumped a record 11.7
percent in March. Banks were told to stop lending to people who
are purchasing their third home or more.  
 Bank Earnings  
 Shares of Bank of China, led by Chairman Xiao Gang, have
dropped 3.8 percent in Hong Kong this year, compared with a 2.8
percent slide in the city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index. The stock
fell 1 percent to HK$4.04 today before the release.  
 Bank of China isn’t alone in reporting earnings that topped
analyst estimates. Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest bank,
today reported a bigger-than-anticipated 48 percent increase in
first-quarter profit as improved earnings at the investment bank
outweighed a loss from asset and wealth management.  
 U.S. rivals Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co., beneficiaries of $140
billion in taxpayer funds, posted combined first-quarter profits
of $13.4 billion, the most since the second quarter of 2007
before the credit crisis began, as their investment-banking arms
capitalized on fixed-income trading.  
 Limiting Credit  
 China’s policy makers aim to avert asset bubbles and
restrain inflation by limiting new credit at 7.5 trillion yuan
in 2010, and have required banks to set aside more deposits as
reserves twice this year. Chinese lenders awarded a record 9.59
trillion yuan in credit last year, powering a government plan to
stimulate the economy.  
 Bank of China advanced 402 billion yuan of new loans in the
first three months, taking the amount outstanding to 5.31
trillion yuan. The bank’s capital adequacy ratio, a key measure
of financial strength, fell to 11.09 percent as of March 31,
from 11.14 percent three months earlier as loan growth ate into
financial buffers.  
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission requires a minimum
11.5 percent capital ratio for large state-owned banks.  
 In a separate statement, BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the
Hong Kong unit of Bank of China, said net operating income
before impairment allowances climbed to HK$6.41 billion ($826
million) in the quarter from HK$5.96 billion a year earlier.  
 Shareholder Mandate  
 Bank of China last month won approval from shareholders to
raise as much as 40 billion yuan selling convertible bonds.
Investors also granted the lender a mandate to sell as much as
20 percent of its outstanding stock in Hong Kong or Shanghai or
in both markets.  
 The Chinese lender has hired five banks including Credit
Suisse Group AG and Merrill Lynch & Co. to help arrange a Hong
Kong share sale, people familiar with the plan said on April 13.  
 Bank of China’s net interest income, the difference between
revenue from lending and deposit costs, rose 21 percent to 44.5
billion yuan in the first quarter even as its net interest
margin narrowed to 2.04 percent. Net fee and commission income
increased to 15.67 billion yuan.  
 Bank of China lost more on overseas mortgage investments
than all other Chinese lenders combined as the U.S. collapse
sparked a credit seizure in 2007 and 2008.  
 As of March 31, Bank of China held $3.87 billion of
investments in subprime mortgage-related securities, securities
backed by so-called Alt-A home loans and other “non-agency”
mortgage investments. The lender wrote back 968 million yuan of
earlier charges on those holdings in the first quarter.  
 Bank of China said it reduced holdings of debt securities
issued by Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain in the
first quarter by 2.26 billion yuan, to 4.76 billion yuan.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top financial stories: FTOP <GO>
Stories on China Banks: TNI CHINA BNK <GO>
Banking industry debt and equity monitor: BANK <GO>
Relative value comparison: 3988 HK <Equity> RVC <GO>  
          
          


  


        