-- Bank of America Loses Bid to Maintain Freeze on Colonial BancGroup Assets
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-04-27T17:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/bank-of-america-loses-appeal-colonial-bancgroup-asset-freeze-overturned.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp., the biggest
U.S. lender, lost a court-ordered freeze on assets of the failed
Colonial BancGroup Inc.  
 The decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta
overturned a judge’s order blocking the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. from disposing of assets claimed by Bank of
America. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank hadn’t
exhausted administrative remedies, so it couldn’t yet pursue
claims for $1 billion in cash and loans, the court said in its
decision made public today.  
 Colonial was closed by regulators and taken over by BB&T
Corp. last year after the company acknowledged it had about
$1.7 billion in bad real-estate loans.  
 Bank of America sued Colonial to block disposition of the
assets, claiming the Montgomery, Alabama-based bank was holding
them in trust for one of its units. A federal judge in Miami
last September extended an injunction barring the FDIC and
Colonial from disposing of those assets.  
 The FDIC appealed, arguing that the lower court didn’t have
jurisdiction to block the oversight agency from fulfilling its
function as a receiver. It also argued that Bank of America must
first pursue any claims administratively, under the federal
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of
1989.  
 The three judge federal appeals court panel, which included
retired U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, agreed.  
 ‘Purely Custodial’  
 Even assuming that Colonial bank’s role was “purely
custodial,” U.S. Circuit Judge R. Lanier Anderson wrote, the
act “would still clearly bar judicial restraint of the FDIC as
long as it acts in its receivership capacity.”  
 Shirley Norton, a Bank of America spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the court’s
decision.  
 Andrew Gray, an FDIC spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  
 The case is Bank of America NA v. Colonial Bank, 09-14739,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit (Atlanta).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
David Beasley in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley4@yahoo.com ;
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        