-- BBVA May Say Quarterly Profit Fell as Economic Slump Cut Lending Demand
-- Charles Penty
-- 2010-04-27T05:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/bbva-may-say-quarterly-profit-fell-as-economic-slump-cut-lending-demand.html

          
          
             Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, may report lower first-quarter
profit after the country’s worst recession in 60 years cut
lending demand and drove up defaults.  
 Net income probably fell 5.6 percent to 1.17 billion euros
($1.56 billion) from 1.24 billion euros in the year-earlier
period, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 10 analysts. Bilbao, Spain-based BBVA is scheduled to
report results tomorrow before the country’s stock market opens.  
 The lender is investing in its southern U.S. and Asian
operations and anticipates growth in Mexico, where the central
bank predicts the economy will expand this year by as much as 5
percent. Spain, where the impact of recession and a property
crash led BBVA to reclassify 1.8 billion euros of still-good
consumer and real-estate loans as doubtful in the fourth quarter
of 2009, may weigh on investor sentiment, said Fernando Gil, a
fund manager at Credit Suisse Group AG in Madrid.  
 “BBVA is a very good franchise with a strong presence in
the markets where it operates,” Gil, who doesn’t hold any
Spanish banking stocks because of concerns about the country’s
economy, said in a phone interview. “If the Spanish economy
takes longer to come out of recession, that will weigh a lot.”  
 BBVA has dropped 16 percent this year, compared with a 2.6
percent gain in the 52-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index. Banco Santander SA, Spain’s biggest
lender, which reports earnings on April 29, has lost 13 percent.  
 Bad Loans  
 Profit from Spain and Portugal, a market that generated 45
percent of BBVA’s profit last year, may have dropped by more
than 25 percent to 482 million euros in the first quarter of
2010, according to estimates by Carlos Berastain, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in Madrid, who rates the bank “buy.”  
 Lenders in Spain face a squeeze on margins as defaults
mount, credit demand flags and loan books re-price to reflect
lower interest rates. Bad loans as a proportion of total lending
for BBVA’s Spain and Portugal business jumped to 5.1 percent at
the end of 2009 from 2.6 percent a year earlier, as the bank
reclassified loans to clean up its balance sheet.  
 Non-performing loans in Spain are estimated to peak at 7
percent in the fourth quarter of this year, Evolution Securities
wrote in a report dated April 26.  
 “Outside of Spain, things are starting to look good with
Mexico clearly improving,” said Arturo de Frias, an analyst at
Evolution. He predicted profit from Mexico increased 2 percent
from a year earlier to 372 million euros.  
 BBVA’s unit in the U.S., a market the bank says will
generate 15 percent of profit within three years, may post a
loss of 7 million euros, Ignacio Cerezo and Andrea Unzueta,
analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, said in an investor
note on April 20. BBVA took one-time charges of 1.05 billion
euros in the fourth quarter to cover goodwill impairments and
extra provisions at its U.S. business.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        