-- Bernanke Tells Commission Budget Deficit May Raise Rates
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-04-27T15:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/bernanke-says-failure-to-cut-deficit-may-push-up-rates-endanger-recovery.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said a failure to reduce the federal budget deficit may
push up interest rates over time and impair economic growth,
putting the recovery at risk.  
 “Achieving long-term fiscal sustainability will be
difficult, but the costs of failing to do so could be very
high,” Bernanke said in a speech today to a White House
commission on the budget deficit. “Increasing levels of
government debt relative to the size of the economy can lead to
higher interest rates, which inhibit capital formation and
productivity growth -- and might even put the current economic
recovery at risk.”  
 Budget deficits may eventually erode the confidence of bond
investors in the management of U.S. fiscal policy, driving
yields higher on Treasury borrowing, raising the cost of lending
in the economy and slowing economic growth, Bernanke said.  
 The Obama administration estimates budget deficits will
total $5.1 trillion over five years and hit a record $1.6
trillion in the year ending Sept. 30. The $1.4 trillion deficit
in 2009 was equal to 9.9 percent of gross domestic product, the
largest share since the end of the World War II.  
 Bernanke spoke to the National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform, established by President Barack Obama
to identify policies to reduce the deficit to a sustainable
level.  
 ‘Bad Habits’  
 Speaking before the panel opened the hearing, Obama said
the financial crisis, the recession and “decades of bad habits
in Washington” have helped drive up the deficit and the
commission must examine all elements of taxes and spending to
come up with a solution.  
 Steps already taken to cut waste and freeze some spending
“will not make up for the years in which those in Washington
refused to make hard choices and live within their means,”
Obama said at the White House Rose Garden. “And it will not
make up for the chronic failure to level with the American
people about the cost of the services that they value.”  
 The goal of the commission, led by Erskine Bowles, a
Democrat and onetime chief of staff to former President Bill
Clinton, and former U.S. Senator Alan Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, is to recommend ways to bring the deficit down to 3
percent of the economy by 2015. The panel’s report is due on
Dec. 1, after November’s congressional elections.  
 ‘Financial Shocks’  
 “High levels of debt also decrease the ability of policy
makers to respond to future economic and financial shocks,”
Bernanke said. “A loss of investor confidence in the ability of
a government to achieve fiscal sustainability can itself be a
source of significant economic and financial instability.”  
 The government must choose between modifications to Social
Security and Medicare, restrained federal spending on everything
else, higher taxes or a combination, he said.  
 “No laws are more basic than the laws of arithmetic: For
fiscal sustainability, whatever level of spending is chosen,
revenues must be sufficient to sustain that spending in the long
run,” he said.  
 Bernanke, while not endorsing any of the options for
balancing the budget, said excessive taxes can impair dynamism
in the economy.  
 “Economic vitality is enhanced when taxes are not
excessive and are collected through a system that is
economically efficient, equitable, and transparent,” he said.  
 Financial Crisis  
 Bernanke said the deficit was largely the result of the
policy response to the recession and the financial crisis. The
economy’s return to growth is not sufficient to erase the
deficit, he said. “Unfortunately, we cannot grow our way out of
this problem,” Bernanke said, as “no credible forecast” would
produce enough growth to bring the deficit under control.  
 Bernanke did not discuss the outlook for short-term
interest rates or monetary policy. The Federal Open Market
Committee is scheduled to begin a two-day meeting today at
around 2 p.m. in Washington. The FOMC is expected to keep
interest rates at zero to 0.25 percent in a statement at about
2:15 p.m. tomorrow.  
 Other Fed officials have also voiced concern about the
deficit. “Even under the most optimistic of scenarios, large
deficits will be run for as far as the eye can see,” Dallas Fed
President Richard Fisher said on March 30 in Tucson, Arizona.  
 “The markets, fearing the consequences of runaway deficit
financing, have bid up longer-term nominal rates, resulting in a
yield curve that is now historically steep,” he said.  
 Yields on 10-year Treasuries have declined to 3.76 percent
as of 10:35 a.m. since reaching a year-to-date closing peak of
3.99 percent on April 5.  
 Deficit spending rose in the past two years as a result of
bailouts, stimulus spending, declining tax revenue and increased
outlays for social safety net programs such as unemployment
insurance.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, testifies at a Joint Economic Committee hearing in Washington, on April 14, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, testifies at a Joint Economic Committee hearing in Washington, on April 14, 2010. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Austan Goolsbee, a senior White House economic adviser, talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about today's first meeting of the 18-member bipartisan debt-reduction commission. 
     President Barack Obama, in a February executive order, created the body to come up with ways to cut the federal government’s record debt and deficits that he said threaten to "hobble our economy." Goolsbee, speaking from Chicago, also discusses the outlook for an overhaul of the financial regulatory system and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
