-- Biggest Stocks Beckon Perkins, Grantham With Steepest Discount Since 1982
-- Charles Stein
-- 2010-04-27T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/biggest-stocks-beckon-perkins-grantham-with-steepest-discount-since-1982.html

          
          
             Thomas Perkins  beat 94 percent of
his mutual-fund rivals in the past decade by investing in
midsize companies. He now prefers giants such as  Cisco Systems
Inc.  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., and his $12.4 billion  Perkins Mid
Cap Value Fund  is almost at its limit for big-company shares.  
 “These stocks have gotten so cheap that they should
outperform for the next several years,” Perkins, the 65-year-
old fund manager at Perkins Investment Management LLC, said in
an interview in Boston. His Mid Cap Value fund returned 12
percent annually over the past 10 years, compared with the 7.6
percent average of peers, data from Morningstar Inc. show.  
 With big stocks trading at the steepest discount to small
companies since at least 1982, the list of investors who share
Perkins’s view includes  Jeremy Grantham  of Grantham Mayo Van
Otterloo Co. and  Donald Yacktman  of Yacktman Asset Management
Co. They are among the best-performing bargain hunters of the
stock world, value managers who scoop up companies they think
others have overlooked.  
 Large-capitalization stocks, as tracked by the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index , lost an annual average of 0.7 percent in the
10 years ended March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  S&P 100 Index , made up of the biggest of the
bunch, fell 2.2 percent annually.  
 Those returns trailed annual gains during the same period
of 6 percent by the  S&P Midcap 400 Index , a proxy for midsize
stocks, and 3.7 percent by the  Russell 2000 Index , a benchmark
for small companies.  
 It’s “nearly certain” that the highest-quality large
stocks, known as blue chips, will outperform the market in the
next seven years as more investors come to consider them
underpriced, Grantham wrote in his January newsletter. He
repeated his outlook last week in the April edition.  
 ‘Sky-High’ Valuations  
 Large stocks had “sky-high” valuations in the 1990s,
 David Herro , manager of the $5.3 billion  Oakmark International
Fund  in Chicago, said in an e-mail. It’s taken a full decade for
many of them to return to attractive levels, said Herro, 49,
whose fund has outperformed 92 percent of its peers in the past
year, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The premium investors are paying today to own small-
capitalization stocks versus their large counterparts is the
biggest in at least 27 years, said  James Floyd , senior analyst
at Leuthold Group LLC, a research firm based in Minneapolis.
Leuthold defines large stocks as those with a market value of
more than $9 billion and small stocks as those from $300 million
to $1.4 billion.  
 Painful Wait  
 At the end of the first quarter, small stocks sold for an
average  price-to-earnings  multiple of 18.6 compared with 15.7
for large stocks. The 18 percent gap between the two is the
widest since Leuthold began gathering the data in December 1982,
Floyd said. In 2000, small stocks sold at about a 40 percent
discount to large stocks, he said.  
 As Grantham and the others wait for the turn, large caps
continue to underperform. The Russell 2000 more than doubled
from the market bottom on March 9, 2009, through April 23, while
the S&P 500 returned 84 percent, including dividends.  
 “It has been a painful trade,” said  Michael Mullaney , who
began shifting more money into the 100 biggest U.S. stocks in
the middle of 2009 and helps oversee $9 billion as a portfolio
manager at Fiduciary Trust Co. in Boston.  
 Since stocks hit their 12-year low, the $15.2 billion  GMO
Quality Fund  has returned 52 percent, and Perkins Mid Cap Value
is up 82 percent, both trailing the S&P 500. The $2.2 billion
Yacktman Fund has more than doubled.  
 Cold Shoulder  
 Mutual-fund investors remain cool to large-cap stocks, data
from Chicago-based Morningstar show. In the first three months
of 2010, investors pulled $8.9 billion from U.S. large-cap
equity funds. They added $3.3 billion to mid-cap funds and $3.8
billion to small-cap funds.  
 John Schonberg , manager of the $1.2 billion  RiverSource Mid
Cap Growth Fund , said it’s premature to bet on the biggest
stocks.  
 “They will come back, but we have a ways to go before that
happens,” he said in a telephone interview.  
 Schonberg said the U.S. is in the early stages of an
economic expansion and that small- and mid-cap stocks usually do
well in such an environment. Those same stocks will benefit as
large companies use their cash to make acquisitions, he said.  
 In an April letter to the shareholders in his mutual funds,
Yacktman pointed out that some of his top holdings, including
Atlanta-based  Coca-Cola Co.  and  Pfizer Inc.  in New York, sell
for lower prices than they did at the end of 1999.  
 Quality Merchandise  
 His  Yacktman Fund  returned 14 percent annually in the past
10 years, better than all but 13 of more than 3,000 diversified
U.S. funds, according to Morningstar.  
 Yacktman, the 68-year-old co-chief investment manager of
his Austin, Texas-based firm, looks at stocks as if they were
bonds and measures the future returns a company will generate
compared with its current price. That exercise leads him to
“quality stocks,” market leaders with predictable performance
and high returns on capital.  
 “We like to buy quality merchandise when it is in the
discount bin,” he wrote to shareholders. In a telephone
interview, Yacktman said that investors “are not being paid to
take more risk” with lower-quality stocks.  
 Grantham, 71, wrote at the end of March that “high-
quality” U.S. stocks would return 6.1 percent a year above the
rate of inflation for the next seven years compared with a loss
of 1.2 percent for small-cap stocks. Quality stocks have high,
stable returns on capital and low debt, Grantham wrote on GMO’s
Web site.  
 Microsoft, Johnson & Johnson  
 The largest holdings in the GMO Quality Fund include
Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft Corp . and New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson . Both have higher returns on
equity and a lower ratio of total debt to equity than the
average for the S&P 500, Bloomberg data show.  
 Grantham, chief investment strategist at Boston-based GMO,
is best known for his gloomy, and often accurate, long-term
forecasts. In 2000, he predicted that U.S. stocks would lose
money in the coming decade.  
 Grantham and his colleagues come up with their value
targets by assuming a long-term average price-to-earnings ratio
for stocks and applying it to a long-term average for profit
margins.  
 “Quality stocks are pretty damn cheap right now,” said
 Ben Inker , director of asset allocation at GMO in a telephone
interview. Because they are more stable and better able to
withstand shocks, blue chips will outperform by an especially
wide margin in turbulent times, said Inker.  
 “If Greece blows up, will that drive Coke into
bankruptcy?” he asked.  
 EMC, Berkshire  
 The $3.2 billion  GMO Global Balanced Asset Allocation Fund ,
which Inker runs and Grantham advises, had 31 percent of its
money in U.S. quality stocks as of Dec. 31, according to the GMO
Web site.  
 Perkins, whose Perkins Investment is a Chicago-based unit
of  Janus Capital Group Inc. , cites Grantham’s notion that asset
prices “revert to the mean,” or return to their historical
norms, to make his case for large-cap stocks. At the moment,
small stocks are expensive compared with large stocks, based on
projected earnings and cash flows, Perkins said.  
 Like Grantham, Perkins sees large stocks as more stable,
less risky and more likely to thrive should the stock market
suffer a setback. If the rally continues, Perkins said, big
stocks may lag behind.  
 Perkins’s large-cap stock holdings include  EMC Corp. , a
technology company based in Hopkinton, Massachusetts, with a
market value of $41 billion and Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. , with a market value of $196 billion.  
 Small stocks benefited from momentum as investors chased
returns, Perkins said.  
 “That momentum has taken on a life of its own,” he said.
“We might be ready for a shift.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers leave a Wal-Mart supercenter store in Sao Paulo, on March 8, 2010. Photographer: Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
