-- Blagojevich Asks Judge to Toss Most Criminal Counts
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-04-27T23:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/blagojevich-lawyers-ask-court-to-throw-out-most-counts-before-june-trial.html

          
          
             Former Illinois Governor Rod
Blagojevich, facing a June 3 corruption trial, asked a judge to
throw out 19 of the 24 counts he faces, arguing they’re based on
a law the U.S. Supreme Court may soon overturn.  
 The high court in December heard arguments in a challenge
to the federal fraud statute used in Blagojevich’s prosecution
that makes it a crime for government or corporate officials to
deprive taxpayers or shareholders of their “honest services.”  
 The statute is “vague, indefinite and uncertain,”
unconstitutionally depriving Blagojevich of notice of the
“nature” of the accusations against him, his lawyers said
today in a filing in federal court in Chicago.  
 Supreme Court justices are considering whether the honest-
services law is specific enough to give notice of what conduct
is illegal in reviewing the fraud conviction of former Hollinger
International Inc. Chairman Conrad Black.  
 Last month, U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel in Chicago
denied Blagojevich’s bid to postpone the trial until after the
court rules on Black’s appeal, calling the request a “red
herring.”  
 “The issue in this case is simply who did what when, and
what was their state of mind when they did it,” Zagel said in
March.  
 Obama’s Seat  
 Blagojevich, a twice-elected Democrat, was first charged in
December 2008 with attempting to trade the Illinois U.S. Senate
seat vacated by President Barack Obama for campaign cash or
personal favors. He was impeached and removed from office last
year by Illinois lawmakers.  
 Indicted in April 2009, Blagojevich has maintained he is
innocent.  
 U.S. prosecutors in February obtained a revised indictment,
adding eight new counts, so they could continue toward trial if
the Supreme Court ruling voids the charges based on the honest-
services law.  
 Chicago U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald prosecuted both
the Blagojevich and Black. Randall Samborn, a Fitzgerald
spokesman, declined to comment on today’s filing.  
 In a later filing, lawyers for the ex-governor renewed
their request to delay the trial until after the Supreme Court
rules on the statute.  
 Potential Witnesses  
 Separately, they also asked Zagel to bar testimony from
potential witnesses awaiting sentencing on federal crimes.  
 Among them are former gubernatorial adviser Antoin “Tony”
Rezko, who was convicted of fraud after a federal trial in 2008
and two former chiefs of staff, John Harris and Alonzo “Lon”
Monk, who were charged with Blagojevich.  
 The promise of leniency in sentencing in exchange for
useful testimony “is nothing short of bribery by the
government,” the defense attorneys said.  
 Samborn also declined to comment on those later filings.  
 Blagojevich faces as long as 20 years in prison if
convicted on the most serious charges of racketeering, attempted
extortion or wire fraud and as long as 10 years on the one
charge of bribery.  
 Prosecutors, in a response to the defense request to the
motion to bar Rezko and the others from testifying, said the
objection pertained to what weight jurors would give the
witnesses’ potential testimony, not its admissibility.  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Rod Blagojevich, former governor of Illinois, speaks to the media as he arrives for his arraignment at the Dirksen Federal Building in Chicago, on April 14, 2009. Photographer: John Zich/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
