-- Boston Scientific Guilty Plea Over Heart-Device Defects Rejected by Judge
-- Sophia Pearson
-- 2010-04-27T20:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/boston-scientific-s-guidant-defibrillator-guilty-plea-rejected-by-judge.html

          
          
             A judge rejected a Boston
Scientific Corp. unit’s guilty plea to charges it hid defects in
heart defibrillators, after some doctors and patients who
received the devices complained about the deal.  
 U.S. District Judge Donovan Frank in St. Paul, Minnesota,
today rebuffed the Guidant subsidiary’s plea agreement with
prosecutors and suggested the company should be placed on
probation for failing to disclose defects with its heart devices
to regulators. Boston Scientific had agreed to plead guilty to
two misdemeanors and pay $296 million to settle a U.S. Justice
Department probe.  
 “At a minimum, the public’s interest in accountability
would be served by Guidant and Boston Scientific being placed on
probation,” Frank said in his 37-page ruling today.  
 Prosecutors said in court papers that Guidant officials
learned as early as 2002 some of the implantable defibrillators
had a tendency to short-circuit and caused users’ deaths. The
company didn’t disclose the defects to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for more than three years, the government said.  
 Boston Scientific officials are willing “to discuss
modification” of Guidant’s plea bargain, according to an
statement from Paul Donovan, a company spokesman.  
 Executives will work with prosecutors “to develop a
modified plea agreement that is acceptable to the court, the DOJ
and the company,” Boston Scientific said.  
 ‘Interests of Justice’  
 Boston Scientific halted all sales of heart-rhythm devices
in March because of an erroneous filing with regulators. The FDA
cleared the company to sell defibrillators again on April 15.
The company’s devices are implanted in patients’ bodies to shock
hearts back into normal rhythm.  
 Heart devices brought in $1.79 billion last year, or 22
percent of Natick, Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific’s
revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Portions of the plea agreement were “not in the best
interests of justice and do not serve the public’s interests
because they do not adequately address Guidant’s history and the
criminal conduct at issue,” Frank said in the ruling.  
 The government’s agreement to allow Guidant to plead guilty
without accepting probation, paying restitution or facing a pre-
sentencing investigation was troubling, Frank said.  
 Lawyers for defibrillator users said they were pleased
Frank suggested the company face a probationary sentence.  
 “He clearly saw this company was a repeat offender and the
plea was inadequate in terms of the victims and for society as a
whole,” said Hunter Shkolnik, a New York-based attorney for
defibrillator patients.  
 $240 Million Settlement  
 Boston Scientific, the world’s second-largest heart-device
maker behind Minneapolis-based Medtronic Inc., agreed in 2007 to
pay $240 million to settle more than 8,000 lawsuits claiming
Guidant hid defibrillator defects.  
 Shkolnik and other plaintiffs’ lawyers asked Frank to force
the company to pay more money to patients to resolve the
government’s criminal case. Some defibrillator patients objected
to the plea in its entirety.  
 Two Minnesota doctors whose patient died as a result of a
short-circuit in one of the devices wrote Frank that the deal
did little to ensure the “the safety of future generations of
patients who receive medical devices.”  
 “To allow a repeat offender to escape with a fine (that is
entirely borne by the shareholders of Boston Scientific) does
not hold the guilty parties fully accountable and inevitably
undermines patient safety,” Robert G. Hauser and Barry J. Maron
wrote in an April 12 letter.  
 No Restitution  
 The judge refused to order Guidant to pay restitution,
saying the patients didn’t qualify as victims under criminal
law. “The court concludes that it has a right to order
restitution, but that there are no victims directly and
proximately harmed by Guidant’s criminal conduct,” Frank said.  
 Still, the judge said Guidant could be ordered to perform
community service as part of a probationary sentence to address
harm the company caused. Guidant also could be required to
appoint a compliance officer to monitor operations, he said.  
 Guidant issued a June 2005 recall that was eventually
expanded to 109,000 defibrillators. Lawyers for patients contend
the company knew as early as June 2002 that the devices were
flawed and hid the defects to protect sales.  
 Prosecutors began probing Guidant’s handling of the
defibrillators in October 2005. The investigation centered on
the company’s Ventak Prizm, Ventak Prizm 2, Contak Renewal and
Contak Renewal 2 defibrillators.  
 Investigators focused on so-called “product advisories”
sent to regulators before Guidant’s acquisition by Boston
Scientific in April 2006.  
 ‘Minor Alteration’  
 Prosecutors found Guidant executives learned as early as
February 2002 that the Prizm 2 devices had short-circuit
problems and made design changes to address the defect, court
papers show.  
 In an August 2003 report to the FDA, Guidant officials
“falsely described the change as a minor alteration to the
device which did not affect the safety and effectiveness of the
device,” according to the filing.  
 Company officials began receiving reports about Guidant’s
Renewal defibrillators short-circuiting in late 2003,
prosecutors found. By March 2005, the company collected a number
of reports on the defect, including the death of a Spanish
patient bearing one of the implanted devices, the government
contends.  
 That month, Guidant officials sent a “Product Update”
letter to all doctors treating defibrillator patients alerting
them to problems with the devices.  
 “Guidant was aware of 12 Renewal short-circuiting
failures, including the death in Spain, but the Product Update
mentioned none of them,” prosecutors said in the filings.  
 Boston Scientific rose 4 cents to $7.10 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined
21 percent this year.  
 The case is U.S. v. Guidant LLC, 10-mj67-DWF, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Researchers work in a clean room at the Boston Scientific Cardiovascular research and development center in Maple Grove, Minnesota, in this file photo. Source: Boston Scientific via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
