-- Boy Genius Blog Purchased by Mail.com Media in Multimillion-Dollar Deal
-- Connie Guglielmo
-- 2010-04-27T16:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/boy-genius-gadget-blog-purchased-by-mail-com-media-for-undisclosed-amount.html

          
          
             Boy Genius Report, a technology
blog focused on mobile gadgets, said it was acquired by Mail.com
Media Corp. in a multimillion-dollar deal.  
 It will now be known as BGR.com, according to Jonathan
Geller, the 23-year-old blogger behind the site. Geller, who ran
the New York-based blog anonymously as Boy Genius since starting
it in October 2006, revealed his identity after the sale.  
 Mail.com Media, owner of such sites as Deadline Hollywood,
Movieline and OnCars, will use BGR.com as an outlet for
technology news, Geller said. The deal will give the blog the
resources to hire new staff and make acquisitions so it can
become a more expansive news site, Geller said. Mail.com Media
will also help with advertising, he said.  
 “We’ll be focusing on adding more content and really making
this into a property,” said Geller, who will continue as editor-
in-chief and general manager of the site. “They’re really giving
me the resources to do that in terms of redoing the site and
providing a ton of support behind me.”  
 Geller, who dropped out of high school in the 10th grade,
said he turned Boy Genius into an “Internet personality” when he
began writing about mobile news as a contributor to the Engadget
technology blog in early 2006. He set up his own site later that
year. It now attracts 1.5 million unique visitors a month,
Geller said.  
 “What we do is break stories and have insight into what we
cover,” Geller said. “It’s really about positioning the site to
be dominant in the field.”  
 Los Angeles-based Mail.com Media was founded in 2004 by
Internet entrepreneur Jay Penske, son of automobile industry
executive and race team owner Roger Penske. In July, the company
bought Deadline Hollywood, founded by former Los Angeles Times
reporter Nikki Finke, to add entertainment business news to its
holdings.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top technology and media news: TTOP <GO>
Media industry stories: NI MED BN <GO>
Wireless devices: NI WLRS BN <GO>
Entertainment news: BBNE <GO>  
          
          


  


        