-- Rig Explosion Hurts Obama Bid to Expand Offshore Drilling
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-04-27T19:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/bp-oil-rig-explosion-in-gulf-hurts-obama-s-bid-to-expand-offshore-drilling.html

          
          
             President Barack Obama’s bid to
expand offshore drilling may be set back after a rig leased by
BP Plc exploded and sank last week, reminding the public of the
danger of oil extraction, environmental and industry groups
said.  
 The April 20 explosion, which led to 11 deaths and
thousands of barrels of crude oil spilling into the Gulf of
Mexico, will force the industry to “at least admit that
drilling for oil is a very risky, very dirty business,” Michael
Brune, executive director of San Francisco-based environmental
advocacy group Sierra Club, said today.  
 Democratic Senators Bill Nelson of Florida and Frank
Lautenberg and Robert Menendez of New Jersey called for
hearings, saying the incident raises “serious concerns,” over
the industry’s safety claims. The incident on the Deepwater
Horizon rig, about 41 miles (66 kilometers) off the Louisiana
coast, created an oil spill 600 miles in circumference, roughly
twice the size of Maryland, the Coast Guard said today.  
 “There’s no question that this complicates things a little
bit because this plays into the argument from those that oppose
offshore drilling,” said Tom Moskitis, a spokesman for the
American Gas Association, a Washington-based trade group whose
directors include representatives of Xcel Energy Inc. and El
Paso Corp. “It’s going to make it harder to open more areas to
production I’m afraid.”  
 Obama proposed last month drilling for oil and gas off the
U.S. East Coast and in the Gulf of Mexico 125 miles off the west
coast of Florida. Obama said the plan is part of a transition to
a new-energy economy that relies less on imported fossil fuel
and more on domestic power from the sun and wind.  
 Climate Legislation  
 “Given our energy needs, in order to sustain economic
growth and produce jobs, and keep our businesses competitive, we
are going to need to harness traditional sources of fuel even as
we ramp up production of new sources,” Obama said on March 31
at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland.  
 The rig explosion should prompt “a reconsideration of the
energy choices that will be made” in legislation being crafted
in Congress that targets climate change, Brune said.  
 Obama’s comments on offshore drilling touch a topic that
has divided lawmakers and may complicate efforts to reach a
compromise on legislation to slow global warming. Expanding
offshore drilling was seen as a way to win support for a
compromise climate bill crafted by Senators Lindsey Graham, a
South Carolina Republican, John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat,
and Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, Moskitis said.  
 ‘Fear and Panic’  
 Climate-change legislation that expands offshore drilling
will be tougher to pass “because of the fear and panic that has
been engendered as a result of this catastrophe,” Nelson told
reporters in Washington today.  
 BP intensified efforts to stop an underwater well leak at
the drilling site that was streaming oil across the Gulf of
Mexico, threatening the shoreline and triggering the evacuation
of a rig 10 miles away. BP increased the pressure on hydraulic
valves on the seafloor to halt the oil leak, U.S. Coast Guard
Petty Officer Erik Swanson said today in an interview. BP, which
leased the rig from Geneva-based Transocean Ltd., has said the
next quickest alternative to curbing the spill may take two
weeks.  
 Winds that scattered the slick northward have reversed and
eased and are now “in our favor,” reducing the risk that oil
will hit shore, Swanson said.  
 White House Meeting  
 BP officials, including Chief Executive Officer Tony
Hayward, met at the White House today with Obama senior adviser
Valerie Jarrett, energy and climate change policy adviser Carol
Browner, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano and Admiral Thad Allen, the U.S.
Coast Guard commandant, according to an administration official.  
 Talks focused on BP’s understanding of the situation at the
rig site and actions the company is taking in response,
including surface and subsurface activities, the official said.  
 “The tragedy off the coast of Louisiana shows we need to
be asking a lot more tough questions of Big Oil,” Nelson said
in an April 23 statement. “We need to look back over 10 years
or so to see if the record denies the industry’s claims about
safety and technology.”  
 Industry Safety  
 Nelson, Lautenberg and Menendez sent a letter to the
chairmen and ranking members of the Commerce, Science and
Transportation Committee and the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee requesting a hearing on the incident. Since 2006,
there have been 509 fires, at least two fatalities and 12
serious injuries on oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, according to
the letter.  
 “This may be the worst disaster in recent years, but it’s
certainly not an isolated incident,” the senators wrote. The
explosion raises “serious concerns,” over the industry’s
safety claims.  
 Moskitis said the industry’s track record is still good.  
 “‘There hasn’t been any major incident comparable to what
just happened in the gulf where a spill has reached land in 40
years,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fire boats battle the fire at the off shore oil rig Deepwater Horizonin the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana. Source: U.S. Coast Guard via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
