-- BP First-Quarter Profit More Than Doubles, Tops Estimates, on Price Gains
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-04-27T15:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/bp-reports-higher-first-quarter-profit-of-6-08-billion-as-crude-rebounds.html

          
          
             BP Plc, the energy company battling
a 1,000-barrel-a-day leak in the Gulf of Mexico, said profit
more than doubled in the first quarter on higher oil prices.  
 Net income jumped to $6.08 billion, or 32 cents a share,
from $2.56 billion, or 14 cents, a year earlier, London-based BP
said today in a statement. Excluding gains or losses from
holding inventories and one-time items, earnings beat analyst
estimates.  
 “BP has reported a very strong set of earnings,” said
Peter Hitchens, an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London.
“There was a strong performance from the underlying operating
divisions, especially with exploration and production. The
refining and marketing business came in slightly ahead.”  
 The price of crude was almost twice as high in the first
three months of the year than in the same period in 2009, while
BP reported “some improvement” in refining margins. The
company increased its stakes in the Valhall and Hod fields in
the Norwegian North Sea in a $991 million deal with Total SA.  
 BP is the first of the world’s biggest oil companies to
report earnings. It will be followed by Royal Dutch Shell Plc
tomorrow and Exxon Mobil Corp. on April 29. Excluding one-time
items and inventory changes, BP earned $5.65 billion. That beat
the $4.84 billion median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 Share Performance  
 The better-than-expected results were overshadowed by the
spill, which followed an explosion on a BP-leased rig from which
11 workers are still missing.  
 BP fell 2.7 percent to 610 pence in London, extending its
losses to 6.9 percent since the fire broke out on the rig. The
stock is up 26 percent in the past year.  
 “The numbers today are significantly ahead of the
consensus,” said Jason Kenney, head of oil and gas research at
ING Commercial Banking in Edinburgh. Regarding the spill, BP
“is doing everything it can. It is a very unfortunate part of
the oil and gas business,” he said.  
 Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward flew to Louisiana and
Texas to oversee the rescue and cleanup operation for BP. An
underwater well leak is streaming oil 80 miles (129 kilometers)
across the Gulf of Mexico after the Transocean Ltd. rig
Deepwater Horizon caught fire and sank last week.  
 Deadliest Explosion  
 If the missing workers died, it would be the deadliest U.S.
offshore rig explosion since 1968, when 11 died and 20 were
injured at a platform owned by Gulf Oil Corp., according to data
from the Minerals Management Service. Fifteen workers were
killed and more than 100 injured in an explosion at BP’s Texas
City, Texas refinery in 2005.  
 BP, the biggest oil and gas producer in the Gulf of Mexico,
is unlikely to see production suffer as result of the accident
because the deposit it was drilling was relatively small.
Hayward aims to increase output by as much as 2 percent a year
through 2015 and in March BP agreed to buy $7 billion of assets
from Devon Energy Corp. in the Gulf, Brazil and Azerbaijan.  
 In the North Sea, the purchase from Total gives BP a 43.8
percent interest in Valhall and 50 percent of Hod. The assets
will be paid for in cash, BP said.  
 The company reiterated its forecast that production this
year will be “slightly lower” than in 2009. Output averaged
4.01 million barrels of oil equivalent a day in the first
quarter, little changed from a year earlier, it said.  
 Higher Prices  
 Crude prices averaged $78.88 a barrel in New York in the
first quarter, about 82 percent higher than an average of $43.32
a barrel last year. Low market volatility may limit the supply
and trading contribution, BP said today.  
 Refining profit margins have also picked up after slipping
to a 15-year low in the fourth quarter. BP’s Global Indicator
Margin, a broad measure of the profitability of turning crude in
to fuels, averaged $3.08 a barrel in the first quarter after
$1.49 in the fourth quarter.  
 BP said its margins were better than the global average and
that there had been “some improvement” at the start of the
second quarter. Still, “we expect opportunities for further
improvement to be limited,” the company said.  
 The company maintained its quarterly dividend at 14 cents a
share.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Anthony "Tony" Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc, speaks to reporters following a speech at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, on March 23, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Anastasia Haydulina reports on the clean-up operation after the BP-leased rig Deepwater Horizon caught fire and sank last week in the Gulf of Mexico.
     BP, which is battling an underwater well leak streaming 1,000 barrels of oil a day into the sea, said today profit more than doubled in the first quarter on higher oil prices. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Kenney, head of oil and gas research at ING Commercial Banking, talks about BP Plc first-quarter profit and the outlook for Royal Dutch Shell Plc's results expected tommorrow.
     Kenney speaks with Bloomberg's Andrea Catherwood from Edinburgh. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
