-- BP Tries to Shut Leaking Well in Gulf of Mexico as Oil Slick Menaces Coast
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-04-27T12:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/bp-tries-to-shut-leaking-gulf-of-mexico-well-as-slick-menaces-u-s-coast.html

          
          
             BP Plc intensified efforts to stop
an underwater well leak that was streaming oil 80 miles (129
kilometers) across the Gulf of Mexico, menacing the shoreline
and triggering the evacuation of a drilling rig 10 miles away.  
 BP increased the pressure on hydraulic valves on the
seafloor to halt the oil leak, U.S. Coast Guard Petty Officer
Erik Swanson said today in an interview. BP, which leased the
rig from Geneva-based Transocean Ltd., has said the next
quickest alternative to curbing the spill may take two weeks.  
 Winds that scattered the slick northward have reversed and
eased and are now “in our favor,” reducing the risk that oil
will hit shore, Swanson said.  
 BP Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward, who flew to the
U.S. to oversee the cleanup, has promised to do “everything in
our power to contain this oil spill.” The London-based company
said today profit more than doubled in the first quarter on
higher oil prices and improved refining margins.  
 Oil is escaping the well near the rig at an estimated rate
of about 1,000 barrels a day. The Deepwater Horizon rig sank
April 22 after an explosion and fire that burned more than 24
hours. The incident left 11 of the 126-member crew missing and
feared dead.  
 Vessels equipped for corralling oil with floating barriers
and skimming it from the surface are expected to resume work
today at first light, Swanson said.  
 ‘No Shoreline Impact’  
 “We have no shoreline impact at this time,” U.S. Coast
Guard Rear Admiral Mary Landry, the government coordinator of
the spill response, said of the oil spill at a press conference
yesterday. “Our goal is to continue to fight this spill as far
offshore as possible.”  
 BP began building an underwater dome to collect the oil
near the seafloor, which may take two weeks to put in place,
Doug Suttles, BP’s chief operating officer for exploration and
production, said at yesterday’s press conference in Robert,
Louisiana.  
 The company intends to drill at least two additional wells
extending 18,000 feet below the seafloor to permanently stop the
leakage. That may take three months, BP said. The first drilling
rig has arrived at the site, Swanson said.  
 About 97 percent of the oil slick is so thin that sunlight
passes through it and reflects back off the water, creating an
optical effect called a “rainbow sheen,” Charles Henry, a
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration forecaster, said
yesterday. Most of that oil will evaporate, so oil-removal
vessels hired by BP are concentrating on areas where waves have
whipped oil and water into thicker patches, he said.  
 Other Rig Evacuated  
 The crew of the Ocean Endeavor, a drilling rig owned by
Houston-based Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc., was evacuated from
“an abundance of caution” to avoid a risk of fire from the
sheen, Les Van Dyke, a spokesman for Diamond Offshore, said
yesterday in an interview. The rig, which wasn’t producing oil,
is moored to the seafloor and remains in place, he said.  
 Exxon Mobil Corp., which was subleasing the rig from Devon
Energy Corp., agreed to evacuate the rig, Van Dyke said.  
 Shutting the underwater valves at BP’s Macondo well is the
quickest route to ending spillage, Suttles said. The cause of
the explosion and the reason valves at the seafloor didn’t shut
automatically aren’t known, Suttles said.  
 The rig sank with 700,000 gallons of diesel fuel on board,
and none is leaking, based on observations by a remote-operated
vehicle, according to the Coast Guard’s Landry.  
 Better Weather  
 BP said in a statement yesterday it was accelerating
efforts because of improving weather conditions, including
dispatching 10 boats to corral oil in floating barriers and skim
it from the surface.  
 Better weather “combined with the light, thin oil we are
dealing with has further increased our confidence that we can
tackle this spill offshore,” Hayward said in the statement.  
 More than 1,000 people are taking part in the oil-spill
response, the company said.  
 The Coast Guard on April 23 suspended its search for 11
workers missing after the rig exploded and caught fire. It was
the deadliest U.S. offshore rig explosion since 1968, when 11
died and 20 were injured at a platform owned by Gulf Oil Corp.,
according to data from the Minerals Management Service.  
 BP’s Hayward has spent his first three years in charge
trying to restore the company’s reputation for safety following
a fatal explosion at the Texas City, Texas, refinery in 2005.
The rig accident may cost insurers and reinsurers $1.6 billion,
according to an estimate by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 The Exxon Valdez tanker spilled about 260,000 barrels of
crude oil in Prince William Sound, Alaska.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        