-- BR Properties to Invest 1.5 Billion Reais for Commercial Real Estate
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-04-27T15:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/br-properties-to-invest-1-5-billion-reais-for-commercial-real-estate.html

          
          
             BR Properties SA, the Brazilian
property developer that sold shares to the public for the first
time last month, plans to invest 1.5 billion reais ($852
million) in commercial real estate, Chief Executive Officer
Claudio Bruni said.  
 The company, based in Sao Paulo, will focus on buying
properties and developing existing ones, Bruni said in an
interview at the Latin American Finance conference in Abu Dhabi.
He didn’t specify over what time period the money would be
spent.  
 “Our main strategy is to keep investing in properties,
looking at deals that make sense and opportunistic
acquisitions,” Bruni said. “We don’t rule out a merger.”  
 Brazilian property companies are raising capital as the
industry benefits from expanding consumer demand in Latin
America’s largest economy and rising salaries. Nine real-estate
companies sold shares in 2009. BR Properties, which last month
raised 1.07 billion reais, is one of seven Brazilian IPOs this
year.  
 BR Properties has invested about 60 million reais since its
IPO, Bruni said in the interview. The company last week agreed
to buy two real-estate companies from Hines Real Estate
Investment Trust Inc. for a total of 182.8 million reais,
according to a regulatory filing.  
 ‘Accelerated Acquisitions’  
 The stock was initiated April 14 with a “buy”
recommendation at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which cited
expectations for office and warehouse purchases.  
 “We will be doing accelerated acquisitions from now and
until the end of the year,” Bruni said today. The company
should have 4 billion reais in real-estate assets at year-end,
he said.  
 Shares have lost 0.8 percent since their first day of Sao
Paulo trading on March 8. During the same period, the benchmark
Bovespa index’s two biggest real-estate companies by market
capitalization, Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes and PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes,
slid 7.7 percent and 6.5 percent, respectively.  
 BR shares gained 1.6 percent to 12.89 reais at 11:50 a.m.
New York time.  
 An increase in borrowing costs won’t hurt the real-estate
industry because accelerating inflation means real interest
rates will be lower, Bruni said.  
 “People generally think that when interest rates go up
real estate will suffer,” Bruni said. “We are not really too
concerned.”  
 Investors expect Brazil’s central bank to raise the
benchmark Selic rate 2.5 percentage points to 11.25 percent by
year-end, according to the weighted average of 16 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        