-- Branson Asked Virgin Executive to `Sound Out' British Airways, Lawyer Says
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-04-27T12:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/branson-asked-virgin-executive-to-sound-out-british-airways-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd.
owner Richard Branson asked an executive to “sound out” a
contact at rival British Airways Plc over proposed changes to
fuel surcharges, a prosecutor told a London court.  
 Branson in 2005 explored charging first class passengers a
higher fuel surcharge and reducing the charge for economy
passengers, prosecutor Richard Latham told the court at a price-
fixing trial today. Latham said Branson asked commercial
director Willy Boulter to find out what BA’s response would be.  
 Three former BA executives and one current manager are
being tried for scheming with Virgin to fix fuel surcharges on
trans-Atlantic flights. The airlines are the top long-haul
carriers at London’s Heathrow, Europe’s busiest airport.
Virgin’s employees gained immunity by admitting their roles in
the scheme. BA has paid $628 million to cover related fines and
class-action settlements.  
 “Branson wanted Boulter to sound out his contact to see if
BA would follow,” Latham said. “Boulter was reluctant to do
this” because he thought the discussions would be more
complicated than previous talks.  
 Prosecutors said that the carriers colluded from July 2004
through April 2006 to match fees charged to passengers to cover
rising fuel costs, the U.K.’s antitrust regulator said at the
trial in Southwark Crown Court.  
 Pleading Not Guilty  
 The case is being brought by the Office of Fair Trading,
the U.K. antitrust watchdog. Andrew Crawley, British Airways’
head of sales; Martin George, a former board member; Iain Burns,
ex-head of communications; and Alan Burnett, former head of U.K.
and Ireland sales, are pleading not guilty.  
 The men could be sentenced to as long as five years in
prison if convicted.  
 Latham said that Branson hosted a cricket match at his
house between teams fielded by the two airlines, days before BA
and Virgin increased their fuel surcharge in September 2005. The
companies didn’t publish photographs of the match until a few
weeks afterwards, Latham said.  
 Latham said executives thought it “wouldn’t be good” for
the charge to go up “at the same time as senior managers were
seen having fun together.” When the photographs were sent to
the media they were undated, the OFT prosecutor said.  
 Virgin Chief Executive Stephen Ridgway and at least two
other former Virgin executives were aware of the scheme and will
be “important” witnesses in the case, Latham told the court
yesterday.  
 The OFT won its first convictions for members of a cartel
in 2008, when three men were sentenced to as long as three years
in jail for conspiring to fix the price of hoses used in the oil
industry. The U.K. criminalized antitrust violations in 2002.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
James Lumley in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        