-- Brazil's Stock Index Declines Most in Two Months on Greece Rating Cut
-- Paulo Winterstein
-- 2010-04-27T20:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/brazil-s-bovespa-stock-index-futures-drop-on-china-interest-rate-concern.html

          
          
             Brazil’s Bovespa stock index fell
the most in almost two months on concern Greece’s credit crisis
will spread, slowing the global economic recovery as Latin
America’s biggest economy and China move to cool growth.  
 Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron-ore miner, and Gerdau SA,
Latin America’s biggest steelmaker, declined with metals prices
after Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s credit rating to junk.
Lojas Americanas SA and PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes led a drop among retailers and homebuilders after
traders boosted bets for higher interest rates.  
 The Bovespa lost 3.4 percent to 66,511.10, the biggest
decline since Feb. 4. All 63 stocks on the index. The
BM&FBovespa Small Cap index slid for a second day, losing 2
percent to 1,124.68. The real weakened 1.5 percent to 1.7726 per
dollar.  
 “The stress will just increase as investors see that the
situation in Greece begins contaminating other countries,” said
Rogerio Freitas, who manages $25 million at Teorica
Investimentos in Rio de Janeiro. “The contraction of credit in
developed economies and tighter monetary policy in emerging
markets will make the situation even worse for growth.”  
 The Bovespa declined for the first time in four sessions
yesterday as oil prices retreated and traders increased bets for
higher interest rates.  
 S&P lowered its long- and short-term sovereign credit
ratings on Greece to BB+ and B, respectively, from BBB+ and A-2.  
 Financing Risks  
 “Medium-term financing risks related to the government’s
high debt burden are growing, despite the government’s already
sizable fiscal consolidation plans,” S&P said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Our updated assumptions about Greece’s
economic and fiscal prospects lead us to conclude that the
sovereign’s creditworthiness is no longer compatible with an
investment-grade rating.”  
 Fibria Celulose SA, the world’s biggest pulp producer, fell
5.9 percent to 35.66 reais, leading declines on the Bovespa
index. Gerdau declined 5.3 percent to 28.71 reais, falling the
most since October.  
 Vale slumped 4.9 percent to 46.58 reais. The Bloomberg Base
Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index plunged 4.8 percent, the
most intraday since January 2009.  
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, fell 3.6 percent to 32.10 reais. Oil dropped the most
in more than a week on skepticism European governments will
approve the Greek bailout plan quickly enough to help the
country avoid default.  
 The U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge against six counterparts
including the euro, advanced for a second day after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said she won’t release funds for Greece
until it has a “sustainable” plan to reduce its deficit.  
 Rate Bets  
 Brazilian policy makers are poised to raise borrowing costs
at the fastest pace since President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva
took office in 2003 after central bank chief Henrique Meirelles
pledged “vigorous action” on inflation, the futures market
shows.  
 The biggest two-day surge in six months on yields of the
overnight interest rate futures contract due in July reflects
expectations that Meirelles will raise the benchmark Selic rate
2.25 percentage points to 11 percent by the June policy meeting,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Policy makers will
likely raise the rate 0.50 percentage point tomorrow, according
to the median of 51 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The yield gap between the July 2010 and January 2021
futures shrank to the narrowest since August yesterday on bets
higher borrowing costs now will make it possible to avoid more
increases in years ahead.  
 China may use capital requirements for developers as a
policy tool to restrain the property market, Ba Shusong, deputy
director general of the State Council’s Development Research
Center, told Shanghai Securities News in an interview.  
 ‘Policy Tightening’  
 “Policy is tightening in China and in India; we may see a
rate increase of 0.75 percentage point here,” Teorica’s Freitas
said in a phone interview. “In emerging markets this story of
more palliative measures of just increasing reserves or
restricting real estate credit, that moment is at an end.”  
 Lojas Americanas, Brazil’s biggest discount retailer, fell
4.1 percent to 12.32 reais. PDG slid 3.1 percent to 14.93 reais.  
 Tam SA and Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA, Brazil’s
biggest airlines, retreated more than 3 percent each. Tam,
Brazil’s biggest carrier, fell 3.5 percent to 29.70 reais, while
second-biggest Gol fell 5.7 percent to 21.50 reais.  
 The Bovespa trades for 12.6 times analysts’ 2010 earnings
estimates, compared with 15.8 times for Mexico’s Bolsa, 18.3
times for Chile’s Ipsa and 22.7 times for Colombia’s IGBC Index,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bovespa
trades at 16.5 times the reported profits of its companies after
fetching 25.5 times in November, the most in almost six years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulo Winterstein in Sao Paulo at 
 pwinterstein@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        