-- Brazil Real Falls Most in 3 Weeks on Greece, Portugal Credit Downgrades
-- Ye Xie
-- 2010-04-27T18:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/brazil-yields-rise-to-13-month-high-as-traders-boost-interest-rate-bets.html

          
          
             Brazil’s real fell the most in
three weeks as credit-rating downgrades of Greece and Portugal
spurred concern that the European nations may be closer to
default, spurring investors to sell higher-yielding assets.  
 The real fell 1.2 percent to 1.7671 per U.S. dollar at 1:52
p.m. New York time, from 1.7465 yesterday, paring its gain in
the past three months to 5.1 percent. It dropped as much as 1.4
percent, the biggest intraday decline since April 7.  
 Stocks tumbled worldwide and the dollar rose after Standard
& Poor’s lowered its ratings on Greek debt to junk, while
Portugal’s was cut two steps.  
 The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
10.84 percent. It earlier touched 10.91 percent, the highest
level since March 5, 2009. The July contract suggested traders
expect the central bank to raise the benchmark Selic rate by
0.75 percentage point at each of the next three meetings, from a
record low 8.75 percent.  
 “Our macro view remains that the central bank needs to
deliver a 75-basis-point rate hike to regain control of market
expectations,” wrote Siobhan Morden, a strategist with RBS
Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut, in a note today.  
 A ‘Hit’  
 Brazilian central bank President Henrique Meirelles told
President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva that the country’s benchmark
interest rate needs a “hit,” Folha de S. Paulo reported,
citing a presidential aide it didn’t name. Meirelles explained
to the president that raising the Selic rate at a faster pace
would result in lower political stress for the country and have
a quicker effect on the economy, the newspaper reported.  
 Twenty-two of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect
policy makers to raise the benchmark interest rate tomorrow by
0.75 percentage point. One predicted a full percentage-point
rate increase and 28 forecast a half-percentage point rise.  
 Meirelles said in an interview on April 24 that he was
ready to take “vigorous action” to rein in inflation as the
risk of the economy “overheating” emerges.  
 Finance Minister Guido Mantega said yesterday in New York
the government may take more measures to limit gains in the
currency. The country levied a 2 percent tax on foreign
purchases of stocks and bonds last October.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        