-- British Open Golf Doesn't Expect Security Problems With Tiger Woods
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-04-27T11:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/british-open-golf-doesn-t-expect-security-problems-with-tiger-woods.html

          
          
             British Open officials aren’t
planning increased security for Tiger Woods at this year’s golf
tournament at St. Andrews in Scotland.  
 The top-ranked American, who took a break after admitting
marital infidelities, will have been playing for three months
when the Open starts July 15, the officials said. That will mean
less scrutiny.  
 Woods returned to golf at the Masters tournament earlier
this month. Organizers at Augusta National Golf Club provided
photos to help security identify women claiming to have had
relations with the player. Woods, a three-time winner of the
British Open, took the title in 2000 and 2005, the last two
times St. Andrews hosted. He’s yet to apply to compete in this
year’s tournament.  
 “We always act on police advice,” Peter Dawson, chief
executive officer of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club, said today
at a press conference at St. Andrews. “Once the situation is
reviewed, I would very much doubt there would be mug shots in
people’s hands.”  
 The Open celebrates its 150th anniversary this year at the
Scottish course. Officials at St. Andrews said they won’t face
the same security uncertainty as Augusta.  
 “The Masters had the problem of not knowing what to
expect,” Dawson said. “If the Open Championship would have
been Tiger’s first event back, we’d be scratching our heads.
We’re very pleased not to be the guinea pigs.”  
 Dawson said it’s not unusual for Woods not to have applied
at this point. The deadline is May 27.  
 “We hope Tiger will come play and enjoy the experience,”
Mike Brown, chairman of the championship committee, said.  
 No Increase  
 Dawson also said the Open isn’t planning to increase the
winner’s purse to 1 million pounds ($1.5 million) as the
Wimbledon tennis championships have.  
 Wimbledon announced last week it was increasing the prize
money for the men’s and women’s singles champions to the record
amount. Stewart Cink took home 750,000 pounds for winning last
year’s Open at Turnberry in Scotland.  
 “The Wimbledon figures are very generous,” Dawson said.
“But I guess they have to play for two weeks to get to that,
and it’s four days here. In the absence of a major exchange-rate
swing, I think we’re a few years away.”  
 This year’s winner’s prize had not been determined, Dawson
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at St. Andrews through the London sports desk
   bbensch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        