-- Brocade, Kenya Aids, JCB, Ritz Camera, Baker Hughes: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-04-27T11:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/brocade-kenya-aids-jcb-ritz-camera-baker-hughes-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Brocade Communications Systems
Inc., the maker of switches for data-storage networks, sued
rival A10 Networks Inc. alleging infringement of seven U.S.
patents.  
 Brocade, based in San Jose, California, is seeking a jury
trial, unspecified damages and an order to stop A10 from selling
infringing products in the U.S., according to a complaint filed
April 23 in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 A10, with some employees who formerly worked for Brocade’s
Foundry Networks unit, “has competed directly with the products
and product lines of Brocade and Foundry” and “willfully,
wantonly and deliberately” infringed, according to the
complaint.  
 Brocade, with $1.95 billion in sales last fiscal year, may
be an attractive takeover target for computer maker Dell Inc.,
according to a recent report from Wedbush Morgan Securities Inc.  
 Closely held A10, also based in San Jose, was founded in
2004 and has offices in the U.S., U.K., France, the Netherlands,
Brazil, Japan, China, Korea and Taiwan, according to its Web
site.  
 A10 spokeswoman Kelly LeBlanc didn’t immediately return
phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  
 The case is Brocade Communications v. A10 Networks,
10CV332, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Kenya’s Anti-Counterfeit Act Challenged by AIDS Patients  
 Kenya’s Constitutional Court has put a hold on
implementation of the nation’s Anti-Counterfeit Act of 2008 with
reference to generic drugs, Angola Press reported.  
 The court was responding to a suit brought by three people
with AIDS who were challenging the constitutionality of the law,
according to Angola Press.  
 The petitioners claim the law confuses quality and IP
rights issues, in the process mistakenly defining legitimate
generic drugs as fakes, according to the publication.  
 They also allege the law contravenes existing law providing
for parallel imports and government use of generics, denying
people with AIDS access to essential medicines in Kenya, Angola
Press reported.  
 J&J Loses Appeal Over Watson Generic of Concerta Drug  
 Johnson & Johnson’s Alza unit lost its appeal to revive a
patent-infringement lawsuit over Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s
generic version of the hyperactivity drug Concerta.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit yesterday
upheld a lower court ruling that a patent on the drug is
invalid. The decision, posted on the court’s Web site, “removes
any intellectual property impediments to the launch of our
product,” said Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Watson.  
 Watson still needs final U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval before it can sell the generic drug, he said.  
 Concerta, used to treat attention deficit and hyperactivity
disorder, generated $986 million in U.S. sales last year for New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based Johnson & Johnson. The company was
relying on the patent to block competition to the medicine until
January 2018.  
 The patent covers a way in which a single pill could
distribute the drug methylphenidate hydrochloride, the active
ingredient of Concerta, into the body over an extended period.  
 Federal law requires patent owners to explain how other
companies could make and use their invention. In ruling the
patent invalid, the Federal Circuit said Alza failed to provide
guidance on how to establish the proper dosage forms of the
drug.  
 Watson, based in Corona, California, said it believes its
Andrx unit was the first to seek FDA approval to sell generic
Concerta. If so, the company could be entitled to six months
before any other generic-drug makers can enter the market.  
 The case is Alza Corp. v. Andrx Pharmaceuticals LLC, 2009-
1350, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington.) The lower court case is Alza Corp. and McNeil-PPC
v. Andrx Corp., 05CV642, U.S. District Court, Wilmington,
Delaware.  
 Copyright  
 JCB Landpower Wins Court Order Against Asian Counterfeits  
 JCB Landpower, a U.K.-based maker of construction vehicles,
persuaded a German court to order three Asian manufacturers to
quit copying its copyrights, Recycling and Waste Management News
reported yesterday.  
 Offending vehicles were exhibited at the BAUMA trade fair
for construction machinery in Munich last week, and, following
the court order, were removed, according to the trade
publication.  
 The problem of counterfeit construction vehicles and
possible attendant safety problems is so serious in Germany that
the country’s engineering federation has begun a “pro-
original” campaign to prompt the use of original products, the
publication reported.  
 The three companies that were the target of the court order
weren’t named because of ongoing court proceedings, according to
the publication.  
 DMCA-Type Bill Proposed for Internet Takedown of Personal Data  
 A measure introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives
April 22 would give people the right to demand their personal
information be removed from any Web site.  
 In essence, it would give individuals rights to protect
their personal data analogous to the rights the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act gives content owners to demand its
removal.  
 HR 5108, brought to congress by Representative Thaddeus
McCotter, a Republican from Michigan, would require any Web site
that makes personal information public to post on that site a
method for its removal by the affected person. Additionally, the
proposed legislation would mandate that the data be removed
“promptly” upon request.  
 The Federal Trade Commission would have the power to
enforce this law, which would be called the “Cyber Privacy
Act.”  
 The Tech Liberation.com Web site calls the proposed bill
“anti-privacy” and “anti-free-speech.”  
 Pirate Party Gets Authorization as Canadian Political Party  
 The anti-copyright Pirate Party of Canada has received
official political-party status in Canada, the Winnipeg Free
Press reported yesterday.  
 The recognition, granted by Canada’s chief electoral
officer April 12, will enable the party to run in federal
elections and issue tax receipts for political contributions,
according to the newspaper.  
 The aim of the party is the removal of limits on the
copying of songs, books, movies and artwork for private non-
commercial use, the newspaper reported.  
 The Pirate Party is one of 20 registered political parties
in Canada, according to the Free Press.  
 Trademark  
 Ritz Camera Sued Financial Underwriters Over Boater’s World Mark  
 Ritz Camera & Image, a closely held chain of camera stores,
sued a Connecticut loan company for trademark infringement.  
 In July 2009, a group headed by the former chief executive
of Ritz Camera Centers Inc. bought at least 163 of the bankrupt
company’s 375 camera stores, which are now operated as Ritz
Camera & Image. Earlier that year the company sold all 129 of
its Boater’s World Marine Centers.  
 Ritz, based in Beltsville, Maryland, had used the Boater’s
World mark for more than 20 years, and registered the term with
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, according to the complaint
filed April 23 in federal court in New Haven, Connecticut.  
 Financial Underwriters Network Inc. of Centerbrook,
Connecticut, at one time engaged in a cross-licensing
arrangement pertaining to financing services for Ritz’s Boater’s
World customers, according to court papers. This agreement
included some use of the Boater’s World mark, Ritz said in its
pleadings.  
 After the agreement ended in 2007, Financial Underwriters
continued to use the mark without authorization, according to
court papers. Ritz claims that despite having been sent two
cease-and-desist letters in March 2010, Financial Underwriters
continues to offer its boat-financing services under the
Boater’s World marks.  
 Consumers are confused and misled into believing Ritz
retains an affiliation with Financial Underwriters or sponsors
or approves the company’s services, Ritz said in its court
papers.  
 The camera company asked the court to bar Financial
Underwriters use of the Boater’s World and other related marks,
and seeks destruction of all allegedly infringing material in
the Connecticut company’s possession.  
 Ritz also asked for money damages, court costs and attorney
fees.  
 The camera company is represented by Ian E. Bjorkman of the
Law Office of Ian E. Bjorkman LLC of New Haven.  
 The case is Ritz Camera & Image LLC v. Financial
Underwriters Network Inc., 3:10-cv-00627-MRK, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Baker Hughes, Varel Settle Drill Bit Trade Secrets Litigation  
 KRG Capital Partners LLC’s Varel unit has settled a trade
secret case, according to a company statement.  
 Baker Hughes Inc., an oilfield service company in Houston,
sued Varel in Texas state court, alleging the Carrollton, Texas-
based company had misappropriated a trade secret relative to
drill bit design. Bit designs in the oil-drilling industry are
closely guarded secrets and have been frequent topics of IP
litigation.  
 A former Varel engineer had claimed his company ordered him
to “clone” a Baker Hughes bit, using design specifications and
training manuals created by the Houston company.  
 Following a two-week trial, a jury found the technology had
been misappropriated. The two companies entered into a license
agreement just before the verdict came down, according to the
statement.  
 Under terms of the agreement, Varel now has a license to
the disputed technology and will be able to sell the drill bits
that had been at issue, according to the company statement.
Financial terms of the accord weren’t disclosed.  
 Earlier in the course of the case, Baker Hughes
unsuccessfully sought a court order barring the sales and
marketing of the bit. The issue revolves around Varel’s High
Energy and Challenger series of bits.  
 Varel’s statement included an apology to Baker Hughes. The
company said it had “sincere regret” for its use of the
Houston company’s technology. Varel said its actions were
“inconsistent with Varel’s standards of conduct.”  
 The case is Baker Hughes Inc. v. Varel Holdings Inc., 2009-
75553, Texas District Court, Harris County.  
 IP Moves  
 Feldman Gale Hires Pepper Hamilton’s Galli for Litigation Group  
 Feldman Gale hired Nicole D. Galli for its litigation
practice, the Miami-based IP specialty firm said in a statement.  
 Galli, who will work from the firm’s Pennsylvania office,
joins from Philadelphia’s Pepper Hamilton LLP.  
 There she represented clients whose technologies have
included medical devices, software, consumer electronics,
automotive, energy, hospitality, food and beverage, construction
and manufacturing.  
 Galli has both an undergraduate degree and a law degree
from the University of Pennsylvania.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        