-- Budget Vote Win Can't Hide `Fragility' of India's Congress Party Coalition
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-04-27T23:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/budget-vote-win-can-t-hide-fragility-of-india-s-congress-party-coalition.html

          
          
             India’s Congress party-led
government needed the backing of a regional powerbroker to win a
key budget vote, underlining how dependent Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh remains on smaller parties to govern.  
 “The victory gives us greater confidence,” Salman
Khurshid, corporate affairs minister said after lawmakers cast
their votes late yesterday. “The agendas of the coalition
remain intact and we will pursue those.”  
 Hours before the ballot, Singh and Finance Minister Pranab
Mukherjee obtained the backing of Mayawati, leader of a party
that draws support from those at the bottom of the Hindu caste
hierarchy and has 21 members in the lower house of Parliament.
Congress and its allies defeated motions sponsored by the
opposition that sought to roll back measures imposed in
February’s budget by 88 votes.  
 A year after Congress achieved its biggest election win in
two decades the reliance on minority partners has stalled
legislation that would allow Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to open retail
outlets and Prudential Plc to sell more insurance. Mayawati in
2007 ordered the closure of Reliance Industries Ltd.’s retail
branches in two cities in Uttar Pradesh, where she is chief
minister, after protests by owners of small shops.  
 Yesterday’s victory was a rare bright spot for a government
that in recent weeks has been buffeted by allegations of
corruption in cricket and secret taps on the mobile phones of
senior politicians, claims that have stalled parliament debate.
The opposition has derailed plans to reserve seats for women in
the legislature and pass a liability bill that would open
India’s nuclear energy industry to foreign equipment providers.  
 ‘Fragile Coalition’  
 The government’s attempt to force through the women’s bill
over the protests of regional parties that argued the move would
simply entrench powerful families has made the United
Progressive Alliance more “fragile,” political analyst Mahesh
Rangarajan said in a phone interview.  
 Congress can’t “behave like a single-party government,”
he said. “Allies have to be taken into account.”  
 The “government needs to change its economic and strategic
policies” which are responsible for rising consumer prices,
Mayawati said in a televised press conference yesterday.  
 Her party would not support the opposition in the vote as
it’s opposed to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s “communal”
politics, she said in Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh. The
ruling alliance is nine seats short of a majority in the 545-
member lower house.  
 Fuel Duty  
 Mukherjee pulled out of the G-20 summit in Washington to
ensure victory in the vote because an administration that is
defeated on a budget-related issue is considered to have lost
its majority in Parliament.  
 Opposition parties, including the Communist Party of India
(Marxist) and the Samajwadi Party have been demanding changes to
import duties and excise taxes imposed on crude oil and refined
products by Mukherjee in the Feb. 26 budget. The levies are
fueling inflation and hurting the poor, they said.  
 India’s consumer prices are rising among the fastest in the
Asia-Pacific. Inflation is a sensitive issue in India, where the
World Bank estimates three-quarters of the 1.2 billion people
live on less than $2 a day.  
 Singh won re-election last May as Congress rode back to
power with the help of policies that provided guaranteed
employment to the poorest families and raised rural incomes.
About two-thirds of India’s population lives in villages.  
 ‘Absolute Majority’  
 Even with its success, Mukherjee said in March he lacks the
support to allow more foreign investment in retail and insurance.
The government needs the “absolute majority of a single party”
to make key policy changes, he said.  
 Higher commodity and food prices pushed the benchmark
wholesale-price inflation rate to 9.9 percent in March, the
highest in 17 months, while the consumer prices paid by
industrial workers rose 14.86 percent in February, the highest
in the region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Food-price inflation has stayed above 15 percent since
November, contributing to two interest rate increases in a month
by the Reserve Bank of India. The bank April 20 raised all three
policy rates by a quarter point, saying “there is a need to
ensure that demand-side inflation does not become entrenched.”  
 Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest state-owned refiner,
Bharat Petroleum Corp. and Hindustan Petroleum Corp. are among
companies that raised prices of fuels after Mukherjee increased
import taxes and excise duty on crude oil, gasoline and diesel.  
 Cricket Scandal  
 Parliament proceedings were paralyzed last week by a
cricket scandal that forced India’s junior foreign minister,
Shashi Tharoor, to resign and the suspension of the commissioner
of the world’s most lucrative competition for the sport, the
Indian Premier League.  
 Opposition lawmakers blocked all debates yesterday as they
demanded the government respond to a report in the Outlook news
magazine that senior politicians have had telephone calls
intercepted and recorded. Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
denied the government had authorized the tapping.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Manmohan Singh, India's prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Manmohan Singh, India's prime minister, poses for a group photo with the heads of delegations attending the Nuclear Security Summit at the Washington Convention Center in Washington, on April 13, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Manmohan Singh, India's prime minister, poses for a group photo with the heads of delegations attending the Nuclear Security Summit at the Washington Convention Center in Washington, on April 13, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
