-- C&C Energy Said to Seek C$165 Million in Initial Public Offering in May
-- Doug Alexander
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/c-c-energy-said-to-seek-c-165-million-in-initial-public-offering-in-may.html

          
          
             C&C Energy Canada Ltd., exploring
for oil in Colombia, plans to raise about C$165 million ($165
million) in an initial public offering next month, two people
familiar with the transaction said.  
 The Calgary-based company plans to offer the stock between
C$9.50 and C$11 a share, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public. The company
will be renamed C&C Energia, and is expected to trade on the
Toronto Stock Exchange.  
 C&C Energia will use part of the proceeds to cover its C$90
million capital plan to drill new wells, expand a processing
facility, and buy geological data and land, the company said in
an April 1 filing with Canadian regulators.  
 C&C Energy was formed in February 2005 to focus on the
Colombian oil industry, according to the prospectus. The company
has properties in the Llanos Basin in east-central Colombia,
according to its filing. The company, which has 49 employees in
Colombia and six in Canada, has produced oil since April 2007.  
 Executives include Chief Executive Officer Richard Walls,
who is chairman of Calgary-based Fairborne Energy Ltd., and
Chief Operating Officer Randy McLeod, a former executive of BP
Canada Energy Co., the company said in the statement.  
 A message left with Chief Financial Officer Ken Hillier
wasn’t returned.  
 C&C Energy has proved and probable oil reserves of 11.8
million barrels that are likely to be produced. The company may
have an additional 3.39 million barrels that could be developed,
according to the prospectus.  
 FirstEnergy Capital Corp. is leading a group of seven banks
on the sale. The banks have an option to sell an additional 15
percent of the shares to meet demand.  
 The IPO will be priced the week of May 10 and close a week
later. The offering is being sold in Canada, the U.S. and U.K.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        