-- Calpers' Dear Says Finance Overhaul Needed to Restore Investor Confidence
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-04-27T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/calpers-dear-says-finance-overhaul-needed-to-restore-investor-confidence.html

          
          
             Legislation being debated in the
U.S. Congress to overhaul Wall Street regulation is essential to
restoring investor confidence in capital markets, said the top
investment officer of the largest U.S. public pension fund.  
 The proposal would redesign rules governing the financial
services industry in response to the worst economic crisis since
the Great Depression. The measure is aimed at averting a repeat
of the $700 billion in taxpayer-funded aid to firms including
Citigroup Inc. and American International Group Inc.  
 “The fundamentally important part of regulatory reform is
that it gives investors confidence in capital markets,” Joe
Dear, the chief investment officer of the California Public
Employees Retirement System, said yesterday afternoon at the
Milken Institute Global Conference in Los Angeles. “We can’t
afford to again go through the crisis we just went through. For
pension funds and for society, the remedial steps are too
huge.”  
 Calpers’ investments produced a loss of 23 percent in the
fiscal year that ended in June, erasing six years of gains. The
fund’s value plummeted $61 billion from Sept. 15, 2008, the day
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy, to Jan. 31,
2009. The fund has rebounded to $213 billion from about $180
billion in June.  
 The pension fund, which reached an all-time high of $260
billion in October 2007, provides benefits to 1.6 million
current and retired public workers in California, the most-
populous U.S. state.  
 Blocked in Senate  
 Republicans in the U.S. Senate yesterday blocked Democrats
from advancing the financial legislation toward a full debate.
The Republicans say the Democratic measure would set up a
permanent bailout of Wall Street banks and create new
bureaucracies. Democrats say the legislation would save the
government from having to step in with taxpayer money to support
financial firms whose collapse would hurt the economy.  
 The bill would introduce steps such as establishing a
consumer protection agency, strengthening oversight of
derivatives and setting up a council of regulators to monitor
the financial system for systemic risk.  
 “There are cases when the private markets do not allocate
risk, do not self-manage risk in a way that protects the society
from unacceptably high losses,” Dear said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        