-- Canadiens Beat Capitals to Set Up 7th Game; Boston, Chicago Advance in NHL
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-04-27T04:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/canadiens-beat-capitals-4-1-to-force-game-7-in-nhl-series-bruins-advance.html

          
          
             The Washington Capitals were pushed
to a decisive seventh game in their National Hockey League
first-round playoff series after losing a second straight game
to the Montreal Canadiens.  
 The Boston Bruins and Chicago Blackhawks both won yesterday
to advance to the second round.  
 The Capitals, who had the NHL’s best regular-season record,
were beaten 4-1 last night in Montreal as Canadiens goaltender
Jaroslav Halak made 53 saves to break Ken Dryden’s team playoff
record for a non-overtime game.  
 Mike Cammalleri scored two goals for the eighth-seeded
Canadiens, who won even after being outshot 54-22. Washington,
the top seed in the Eastern Conference, will host Game 7
tomorrow.  
 The Bruins await the Capitals-Canadiens winner after
closing out their Eastern Conference series with a 4-3 win over
the Buffalo Sabres at TD Garden in Boston.  
 David Krejci scored two goals as the Bruins, seeded sixth
in the East, won the first-round series 4-2 to join the
Pittsburgh Penguins and Philadelphia Flyers in reaching the
conference semifinals.  
 The Blackhawks moved into the Western Conference semifinals
with a 5-3 win over the Nashville Predators in Nashville,
Tennessee. Patrick Sharp and Jonathan Toews each had a goal and
two assists as Chicago won the final three games after trailing
2-1 in the series.  
 The Blackhawks will face the Vancouver Canucks in the
second round for the second straight year.  
 The Phoenix Coyotes host the Detroit Red Wings today in
Game 7 of their Western Conference playoff series, with the
winner advancing to play the top-seeded San Jose Sharks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        