-- Canada's Currency Drops Most Since October on Greece, Portugal Downgrades
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-04-27T20:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/canadian-currency-weakens-as-greek-debt-crisis-damps-higher-yield-demand.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar fell the most in
almost six months after Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s credit
rating to junk, fueling speculation its debt crisis will spread
and damping the appeal of growth-linked currencies.  
 The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, touched the lowest level in
more than a week as S&P also reduced Portugal’s rating. The
loonie reached parity with its U.S. counterpart on April 6 for
the first time since July 2008.  
 “The market turned on a dime in response to the fiscal
concerns from Europe, and since then it’s been all downhill for
the Canadian dollar,” said Eric Lascelles, chief economics and
rates strategist at Toronto Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit
in Toronto.  
 The Canadian currency dropped 1.5 percent to C$1.0157 per
U.S. dollar at 4:28 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0010 yesterday. It
depreciated as much as 1.71 percent, the biggest intraday drop
since Oct. 30, and touched C$1.0181, the weakest level since
April 19. Government bonds climbed.  
 The S&P 500 Index tumbled 2.3 percent, the most since
February, and the MSCI World Index, a measure of stocks in 23
developed markets, slid 2.4 percent. Crude oil for June delivery
dropped 2.8 percent to $81.86 a barrel in New York. Crude is
Canada’s biggest export. The loonie tends to rise and fall with
equities and commodities.  
 The yen and dollar strengthened versus all of their major
counterparts.  
 S&P Downgrades  
 S&P cut its long- and short-term sovereign credit ratings
on Greece three steps to BB+ and B, from BBB+ and A-2. The
outlook is negative. Portugal’s long-term local and foreign
currency ratings were lowered two steps to A- from A+, with S&P
citing “fiscal and economic structural” weakness.  
 The Canadian currency touched 91.31 cents per greenback on
April 21, the strongest level since June 2008, a day after the
Bank of Canada signaled it may become the first central bank in
the Group of Seven nations to increase borrowing costs as
economic growth accelerates and stokes inflation.  
 Bank Governor Mark Carney maintained the key interest rate
at a record low 0.25 percent while dropping a pledge to hold it
there through June. While saying there is nothing “pre-ordained”
about interest-rate moves, Carney today told the House of
Commons finance committee he plans to raise the rate because of
faster-than-expected growth.  
 “The market got a bit ahead of itself last week,” said
Marc Chandler, head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York.  
 Rate Forecasts  
 The Canadian central bank will raise the benchmark rate to
1.25 percent by year-end, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. The Federal Reserve will lift its benchmark to
0.5 percent by then, from a range of zero to 0.25 percent,
according to the median estimate in another Bloomberg survey.  
 Fed policy makers are scheduled to release an interest-rate
decision tomorrow. They repeated a pledge last month to keep
borrowing costs “exceptionally low” for an “extended
period.” The Bank of Canada’s next rate decisions are due on
June 1 and July 20.  
 The loonie tumbled against Japan’s currency after reaching
the strongest level yesterday since October 2008, 94.49 yen per
Canadian dollar. It fell 2.3 percent to 91.70 yen.  
 Government bonds advanced, pushing down the yield on the
nation’s benchmark 10-year note to the lowest level in more than
three weeks. It fell 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 3.60 percent and touched 3.59 percent, the lowest since April
5. The price of the 3.75 percent security maturing in June 2019
rose 59 cents to C$101.15. The two-year note yield fell 7 basis
points to 1.91 percent, the lowest level in a week.  
 Swelling Deficits  
 European Union policy makers are struggling to agree on
measures to ease the panic over swelling budget deficits.
Leaders of the 16 euro nations may hold a summit after the Greek
government’s decision last week to tap a 45 billion-euro ($60
billion) emergency-aid package failed to reassure investors, a
European diplomat and Spanish official said.  
 “If it’s contained to Greece and somewhat to Portugal, it
will be manageable,” said Fabian Eliasson, head of U.S.
currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York. “But
if it spreads to Spain, I think you’re going to have much more
widespread problems, and then it can go on to bigger and much
worse things.”  
 Canada’s exports will rise by 11 percent this year and 7
percent in 2011 as the global economy rebounds, the country’s
export finance arm said.  
 Global gross domestic product will expand 3.7 percent this
year, following a 1.1 percent contraction last year, Export
Development Canada said in an update of its projections.
Canada’s economy will grow 2.5 percent in 2010 and 2.9 percent
next year, the agency predicted.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        