-- Cancer Imaging Tests Increase More Than 30% Each Year, Driving Costs Up
-- David Olmos
-- 2010-04-27T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/cancer-imaging-tests-increase-more-than-30-each-year-driving-costs-up.html

          
          
             The number of $2,000 PET imaging
tests done for elderly cancer patients rose by more than one-
third each year from 1999 to 2006, driving up treatment costs, a
study found.  
 Positron emission tomography , or PET, scans for patients on
Medicare increased an average of 35.9 percent to 53.6 percent
annually depending on their cancer type, according to a study
from Duke University. Average two-year costs of all types of
imaging tests for cancer, including CT scans and X-rays, rose at
double the rate of overall cancer treatment costs, according to
the research published today in the  Journal of the American
Medical Association.   
 Cancer accounted for  $104.1 billion  in U.S. medical
spending in 2006, and costs of treating the disease may rise
faster than overall health-care expenses, according to the
National Cancer Institute. While the cost of imaging tests are 6
percent of total Medicare cancer costs, their use is increasing,
the authors of today’s study said.  
 “It is unclear whether the rapid increase in use of
advanced imaging is a result of the novelty of the
technologies,” wrote  Kevin Schulman , associate director of the
 Duke Clinical Research Institute  at Duke University in Durham,
North Carolina. “The tests give clinicians new information but
for some of these tests, it’s at a fairly high cost,” Schulman
said in a telephone interview.  
 PET Tests  
 PET scans are imaging tests that use small amounts of
radioactive material to enable physicians to see how patients’
tissues and organs are functioning, according to the  Mayo Clinic 
Web site. Manufacturers of imaging machines include  General
Electric Co. ,  Royal Philips Electronics NV ,  Siemens AG  and
 Toshiba Corp .  
 The study used claims data from nearly 101,000 patients in
Medicare, the U.S. health program for people ages 65 and older
or disabled. Average two-year costs of all types of imaging
tests for cancer, including standard X-rays and MRI or magnetic
resonance imaging, rose 5.1 percent to 10.3 percent per patient
each year, the results showed. That increase was more than
double the overall growth in cancer treatment costs, which rose
from 1.8 percent to 4.6 percent each year.  
 X-rays, the most common type of cancer imaging test, either
decreased or stayed about the same during the research period,
according to the study. Patients had an average of 4.3 to 12.2
X-rays each over two years, the researchers said.  
 Lung Cancer  
 Patients with lung cancer or lymphoma, a cancer of the
body’s lymphatic system, had the most screening tests, the study
found. In 2006, the average patient with lung cancer had 11
standard X-rays, six computerized tomography, or CT, scans; an
MRI and a PET scan among the tests within two years after
diagnosis of their illness, the study found.  
 Lung cancer is one of the deadliest malignancies, killing
about 158,000 people in the U.S. in 2006, according to the
Atlanta-based  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  
 “If we want to spend Medicare resources wisely, then
before we approve these very expensive technologies we would
want some data to assure us they are actually helping
patients,”  Rita Redberg , director of women’s cardiovascular
services at the University of California, San Francisco, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  
 “Lung cancer has some of the most dismal prospects,” said
Redberg, who has done research on imaging and was not involved
in today’s study. “I haven’t seen any research that says people
are doing better or living longer due to these PET scans.”  
 “Gotten Worse”  
 The increase in use of PET scans “has probably gotten
worse” after the study ended in 2006 because Medicare has
expanded reimbursement for the tests to more types of cancer,
said David Soffa, senior vice president of medical affairs for
 American Imaging Management , a Chicago-based subsidiary of
 WellPoint Inc.,  an Indianapolis-based health insurer. The tests
usually cost $2,000 to $3,000, though Medicare reimburses less
than $2,000, he said.  
 PET scans probably account for less than 1 percent of all
imaging tests, though the numbers are growing because cancer
specialists believe the technology helps them better monitor the
disease’s progression, Soffa, a radiologist, said today in a
telephone interview.  
 “PET is able to detect tumors much earlier and much more
accurately,” he said. “Where it’s effective, it’s extremely
effective.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        