-- McGraw-Hill First-Quarter Profit Increases More Than Analysts' Estimates
-- Greg Bensinger
-- 2010-04-27T20:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/mcgraw-hill-first-quarter-profit-increases-more-than-analysts-estimates.html

          
          
             McGraw-Hill Cos., owner of the
Standard & Poor’s credit-ratings unit, reported first-quarter
profit rose more than analysts estimated, as growing high-yield
bond issuance helped boost demand for debt ratings.  
 Net income advanced 64 percent to $103.3 million, or 33
cents a share, from $63 million, or 20 cents, a year earlier,
the New York-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
projected earnings of 25 cents, the average of eight estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 McGraw-Hill, which made more than half of its revenue from
financial services in the period, benefited from a recovery in
the global bond markets. Issuance of U.S. high-yield debt rose
more than fivefold in the first quarter to $70.8 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 “The financial services revenue looked good and that’s due
mostly to new bond ratings,” said Michael Kupinski, an analyst
with Noble Financial Group Inc. in Boca Raton, Florida, who
recommends buying the shares. “It’ll be important for them to
maintain that growth.”  
 McGraw-Hill lost 23 cents to $33.65 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained
less than 1 percent this year.  
 Revenue rose 3.7 percent to $1.19 billion in the quarter,
in line with analysts’ estimates.  
 Financial-services revenue rose 9.3 percent. Debt-rating
company Moody’s Corp. reported on April 21 that first-quarter
profit jumped 26 percent.  
 Revenue from McGraw-Hill’s education unit increased 1.5
percent. At the information and media division, which includes
J.D. Power and Associates, revenue plunged 8.5 percent.
Excluding BusinessWeek, which McGraw-Hill sold to Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of Bloomberg News, on Dec. 1, the unit’s
sales gained 4.3 percent.  
 McGraw-Hill said it is sticking to its full-year forecast
of earnings per share of $2.55 to $2.65.  
 (McGraw-Hill held a conference call at 8:30 a.m. New York
time. See  http://www.mcgraw-hill.com/investor_relations .)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        