-- Chavez Rejects Colombia Election Meddling Charge as Mockus Rises in Polls
-- Helen Murphy
-- 2010-04-27T15:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/chavez-rejects-colombia-election-meddling-charge-as-mockus-rises-in-polls.html

          
          
             Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez
rejected charges by Colombian President Alvaro Uribe that he is
meddling in the Andean country’s political affairs ahead of
presidential elections next month.  
 Chavez, who said last week that former Colombian defense
minister and presidential candidate Juan Manuel Santos could
“generate a war” if elected, said last night that he has no
preferred candidate for the May 30 election and will seek
improved ties with his neighbor regardless. The comments came as
Green Party candidate Antanas Mockus, who has said he
“admires” Chavez, gains ground.  
 Chavez has cited Santos’s role in leading a 2008 military
operation that killed a top guerrilla leader in Ecuadorean
territory as a source of tension between the countries. The
Ecuador strike prompted Chavez to send troops and tanks to
Venezuela’s border with Colombia. Santos is now trying to take a
conciliatory tone to win office, Chavez said.  
 “I don’t have a candidate in Colombia and I can’t have
one. Hopefully someone comes along with whom I can talk, and not
one that attacks neighboring countries with bombs,” Chavez said
last night on state television. “I’m talking about Mr. Santos.
Now he’s trying to disguise himself by putting a sheep’s skin on
a wolf. If he wins, relations will be further strained.”  
 Uribe said yesterday that his government “won’t accept
blackmail” by foreign governments trying to intimidate voters
with threats of war.  
 ‘Undue Interference’  
 “This intimidation, this undue interference by a foreign
government, offends the Colombian people and offends all the
candidates regardless of whether the candidate supports or
opposes the government,” Uribe said in a statement from his
office.  
 Mockus, who yesterday said he “admires” Chavez during an
interview on La Zeta Radio, said in a subsequent interview on W
Radio that he used the wrong verb.  
 “I respect President Chavez because he was elected and
reelected democratically and anyone elected democratically is
respectable,” Mockus, the former mayor of Bogota, said in the
interview posted on W Radio’s website today. “I used the verb
‘admire’ and I’d like to change it to ‘respect.’”  
 Chavez said last night that he doesn’t know Mockus
personally or his policies.  
 “The Colombian people will know who to choose,” Chavez
said. “Santos wants to be president, and he has that right, but
it would be extremely difficult with a personality like that. It
would be a serious military threat to the region.”  
 A poll released yesterday by RCN Television showed that
Mockus could win the election against Santos.  
 Mockus Gains  
 In the first round of elections on May 30, voters favor
Mockus by 38 percent to 29 percent for Santos, a poll by Ipsos-
Napoleon Franco showed. Such a result would send both candidates
into a runoff on June 20. In that race, Mockus would have 50
percent support versus 37 percent for Santos, the poll said.  
 The April 24-25 poll of 1,203 people in 36 cities had a
margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  
 The two leading candidates have vowed to maintain the
economic and security policies of Uribe, who is barred from
running for a third straight term. Mockus, 58, received 1
percent of the vote when he faced Uribe in the first round of
the country’s 2006 elections.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        