-- Chevron Says Contracts at Australian Gorgon LNG Venture Reach $19 Billion
-- James Paton
-- 2010-04-27T05:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/chevron-says-contracts-at-australian-gorgon-lng-venture-reach-19-billion.html

          
          
             Chevron Corp. and its partners in
the Gorgon liquefied natural gas venture off northwest Australia
have awarded about A$20 billion ($19 billion) in contracts, with
Australian companies winning more than a third of the work.  
 A Leighton Holdings Ltd. unit is among Australian
contractors that have gained more than A$7 billion in combined
Gorgon orders, Chevron Australia said in its Frontier magazine.
The company plans to add 700 workers in Australia by the end of
this year as the country’s importance to Chevron’s global
operations grows.  
 Australian gas developments have become the “centerpiece”
of Chevron’s growth strategy as the second-largest U.S. energy
producer advances the A$43 billion Gorgon venture, Chief
Executive Officer John Watson said in the publication.  
 Chevron expects to employ more than 2,500 people in
Australia by the end of 2010, compared with 1,800 now, the
company said. Gorgon, due to start LNG exports in 2014, has
already generated almost 3,000 jobs, the company estimated.  
 The construction of Gorgon on the Barrow Island nature
reserve is proceeding after San Ramon, California-based Chevron,
Exxon Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc approved the project
last year. Unions and contractors reached an agreement on
working conditions in January, Chevron said.  
 The venture, Australia’s largest resources investment, will
spend A$20 billion on Australian “goods and services” over the
next five years, Chevron said. The U.S. oil and gas producer’s
Wheatstone venture, also in Western Australia, is among more
than a dozen proposed LNG projects in Australia targeting rising
Asian demand for cleaner-burning fuels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        