-- Chile Peso Falls Most in Six Weeks After Standard & Poor's Cuts Greek Debt
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-04-27T19:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/chilean-peso-falls-as-copper-prices-drop-u-s-stocks-decline-a-second-day.html

          
          
             Chile’s peso plunged the most in
six weeks after Standard & Poor’s downgraded Greece’s debt
rating, leading investors to sell emerging-market assets.  
 The peso dropped 1 percent to 524.05 per U.S. dollar, from
519.03 yesterday, the biggest decline since March 16. The drop
erased almost all the currency’s gain this month, leaving it up
0.1 percent.  
 The dollar strengthened and copper, Chile’s biggest export,
fell the most since June on concern Greece’s debt crisis may
undermine economic recoveries. The news led traders to pare
their estimates for Chilean interest-rate increases and average
inflation.  
 “This is a very complex situation and has led to a flight
to the dollar and a sharp decline in the peso,” said Jorge
Selaive, chief economist at BCI Corredor de Bolsa SA in
Santiago. “This is more complex than the other episodes of risk
aversion we have seen from the same source. The steep drop in
the euro after the S&P downgrade caused the local exchange rate
to jump.”  
 Lower interest-rate swap rates in pesos “are symptomatic
of risk aversion and expectations the central bank may be
tempted to wait a while longer because of the difficult
situation unfolding in Europe,” Selaive said.  
 The nation’s benchmark interest rate has been at 0.5
percent since July 2009, a record low.  
 The two-year interest-rate swap rate, which reflects the
market’s estimated average of interest rates over the next 24
months, declined three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 3.18 percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Reverse Expectations’  
 “The central bank was saying that rate rises would come
faster than the market expected, but now we have all these
concerns about Greece,” said Siobhan Morden, a Latin American
debt strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.
“You’ll have to reverse otherwise bullish expectations. If
you’re seeing risk appetite lower and questions about the global
recovery, then breakeven inflation will fall.”  
 The average pace of price rises over the next two years as
implied by the interest-rate swap market declined eight basis
points to 3.34 percent, according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 Consumer prices may rise 0.51 percent in April, according
to Banco Santander SA prices for inflation forwards.  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        