-- Chilean Industry Output Plunges by the Most Since 1982 Following Temblor
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-04-27T21:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/chilean-march-industrial-production-declines-by-most-since-1982-on-quake.html

          
          
             Chilean industrial output fell the
most in more than 25 years in March, dropping 19.4 percent from
a year ago after a Feb. 27 earthquake, an industry group said.  
 Industrial sales declined 14.1 percent, manufacturing
association Sofofa said today in an e-mailed statement. The
National Statistics Institute, which issues manufacturing data
separately, may report tomorrow that output fell 7.3 percent in
March from a year earlier, according to the median forecast of
14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The February quake, the world’s fifth-largest in a century,
and a subsequent tsunami smashed regions that account for more
than 15 percent of the country’s gross domestic product and
caused damage of almost $30 billion, according to President
Sebastian Pinera. April’s output will also be affected by the
quake as some of the hardest-hit industries are still
recovering, the group said.  
 “We expected a negative figure, but not as big as this,”
said Jorge Selaive, chief economist at BCI Corredor de Bolsa SA
in Santiago. “There’s a great deal of uncertainty about the
state of industry still.”  
 Quake damage to oil refineries accounted for six percentage
points of the decline and the impact on the wood-pulp industry
for an additional five percentage points, Sofofa said.  
 The statistics institute tomorrow may say industrial sales
dropped 3.3 percent in March from the same month last year,
according to the median of 10 economists’ estimates.  
 ‘Significant Recovery’  
 “We hope there will be a significant recovery because this
was the month where the bulk of the effects are concentrated,”
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters today. “The
strong effects began in March because the quake didn’t just
destroy physical infrastructure of factories and companies, but
we had the whole problem of communications, we lost connectivity
in the whole area, and that also affected this figure.”  
 The peso fell 1 percent to 524.05 per dollar from 519.03
yesterday, the steepest drop in six weeks. Chile’s main equity
index, the Ipsa, fell 0.6 percent to 3,802.80, its steepest
decline in more than a week.  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        