-- China's Biggest Property Stocks Offer `Good Opportunity,' First State Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-27T09:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/china-s-biggest-property-stocks-offer-good-opportunity-first-state-says.html

          
          
             China Vanke Co. offers
“opportunity” for investors because the largest property
stocks will benefit from industry consolidation amid government
steps to curb real estate prices, First State Investments said.  
 China Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed developer, has
tumbled 29 percent in Shenzhen this year as the government
barred banks from funding purchases of third homes, increased
down payment requirements and raised mortgage rates to slow
prices that rose at a record 11.7 percent in March.  
 “The recent pull back represented a good opportunity for
us to increase holdings of higher quality developers,” Martin
Lau, who helps oversee about $138 billion as Hong Kong-based
director of Greater China equities at First State, said in
response to e-mailed questions. “We think that larger
nationwide developers including Vanke and China Resources Land
Ltd. would be longer-term beneficiaries of the consolidation.”  
 Demand for housing in China will withstand government bank
lending curbs, and further declines in the nation’s property
stocks may be an opportunity to buy the shares, Templeton Asset
Management Ltd.’s Mark Mobius said in an interview last week.  
 Vanke dropped 1.3 percent to 7.70 yuan today, its lowest
close since March 2009, compared with a 2 percent decline for
the broader CSI 300 Index. State-controlled China Resources
slumped 2.8 percent to HK$14.06 in Hong Kong, extending its
annual loss to 20 percent.  
 ‘Property Mania’  
 In the latest step to cool what Andy Xie, former Morgan
Stanley chief economist for the Asia-Pacific region, called a
“vast property mania” yesterday, China tightened financing by
requiring developers to submit fund-raising plans for review.  
 Citigroup Inc., the fourth-biggest U.S. bank, sees a “very
real” bubble in the Chinese residential property market which
the nation’s government is taking “incremental steps” to address.  
 “China is being sensible by trying to address this,”
Thomas Flexner, Citigroup’s global head of real estate, said
today at a briefing in Singapore. “The market is beginning to
believe they are serious.”  
 Marc Faber, the publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report,
said last week surging real estate prices and China’s
“excessive” credit expansion are “danger signals” that
growth is peaking.  
 Property prices may fall by as much as 20 percent in the
second half of the year, BNP Paribas said April 23. Nine in 10
investors surveyed by SYWG BNP Paribas Asset Management Co. and
China Business News last week expect home prices to decline.  
 ‘Strict’ Policies  
 Lau, whose First State Greater China Growth Fund beat 97
percent of its peers over a five-year period according to
Bloomberg data, said government measures to curb prices are
likely to continue.  
 “Policies implemented on the property sector would remain
strict as long as China’s exports continue to grow at a healthy
pace, supporting China’s strong growth, and property prices
continue to soar.”  
 The nation’s economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first
quarter, the most in almost three years, while exports climbed
29 percent.  
 Haikou and Sanya, cities on the southern island of Hainan,
led the 70 cities that posted the biggest gains in property
prices in March. Prices in Haikou, Hainan’s capital, jumped 53.9
percent, while Sanya, which has hosted the Miss World beauty
pageant, followed with a 52.1 percent increase, the National
Bureau of Statistics said April 14.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk past the China Vanke Co. headquarters in Shanghai, on Aug. 31, 2009. Photographer: Kevin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Fan Gang, a former People’s Bank of China adviser, talked yesterday with Bloomberg's Susan Li in Hong Kong about China's measures to cool property prices and the nation's currency policy.
     Fan said James Chanos is overly pessimistic about China’s property market because the hedge fund manager underestimates government efforts to avoid a bubble. Chanos said earlier this month that China is on a "treadmill to hell" because it’s hooked on property development for driving growth. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
