-- China Tells State Companies to Strengthen Protection of Commercial Secrets
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-27T04:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/china-tells-state-companies-to-strengthen-protection-of-commercial-secrets.html

          
          
             China issued rules calling on its
state-owned companies to strengthen protection of their
commercial secrets, which it defined broadly to include
information ranging from acquisitions to technologies.  
 The State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission, which oversees the more than 120 companies
controlled by the central government, defined commercial secrets
as any practical information that is not publicly available and
may potentially bring economic benefit to enterprises.  
 Companies should protect these secrets accordingly, the
commission said in a statement yesterday.  
 China’s definition of commercial secrets has fueled concern
among foreign companies after former Rio Tinto Group employee
and Australian citizen Stern Hu was sentenced to 10 years in
prison last month for taking bribes and industrial espionage.
Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd criticized the conviction
for a lack of transparency and said it raised “serious”
questions.  
 “It’s broad enough to cover every bit of business and
technical information,” Nicolas Groffman, a Beijing-based
partner at law firm Mallesons Stephen Jaques, said of the new
rules. “We don’t know more about the definition of commercial
secrets really.”  
 PetroChina Co., the world’s second-biggest company by
market value, and Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
the world’s biggest lender, are among companies controlled by
the central government. Others include China Mobile Ltd.,
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. and Air China Ltd.  
 Protection Office  
 All companies controlled by the central government should
have an office and employees specifically assigned to ensure the
protection of commercial secrets, the State-Owned Asset
Supervision and Administration Commission said in the statement
dated March 25.  
 Labor contracts with employees should also contain
confidentiality clauses, it said. Employees found to have leaked
commercial secrets will be prosecuted according to law, the
commission said.  
 Commercial secrets include information about strategic
planning, management, public listings, business models, property
transactions, financial information and manufacturing processes,
according to the commission.  
 The Chinese government sometimes uses legislation to bring
attention to particular issues, Groffman said. “Because it’s
new, people have to focus on it.”  
 For Related News and Information:
Top legal stories today: TLAW <GO>
Bloomberg legal resources: BLAW <GO>
Stories about crime in China: TNI CHINA CRIME BN <GO>
Stories about Chinese law: TNI CHINA LAW BN <GO>
Emerging markets monitor: EMMV <GO>
Shanghai Composite member rankings:
SHCOMP <Index> MRR <GO>
China’s economic snapshot: ESNP CH <GO>  
          
          


  


        