-- CIT Group, Led by Thain, Posts Surprise Profit After Exit From Bankruptcy
-- David Henry
-- 2010-04-27T21:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/cit-group-led-by-thain-reports-profit-in-first-post-bankruptcy-quarter.html

          
          
             CIT Group Inc., the commercial
lender run by John A. Thain, posted a surprise profit in its
first full quarter since emerging from bankruptcy.  
 Thain told investors during a conference call today that
credit losses are easing and that CIT is pushing ahead with
plans to cut funding costs and use its banking unit to make more
loans. New York-based CIT had a first-quarter profit of $97
million, or 49 cents a share. The average projection of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was a loss of 25 cents a share.  
 “We’re seeing encouraging signs on credit,” Thain, 54,
said during the conference call. Write-offs of bad loans were
“significantly lower” even before the impact of “fresh
start” accounting used to emerge from bankruptcy, he said.  
 Thain has said CIT’s recovery is being held back by the
cost of its bond and bank loan financing, which carry interest
rates as high as 13 percent. He’s trying to persuade bank
regulators to lift curbs on using federally insured deposits so
he can reduce financing costs, and planning to pay down the most
expensive debt.  
 Debt Payments  
 The lender intends to prepay $1.5 billion of first-lien
debt, citing improved liquidity and cash flow, CIT said. Total
cash increased to $10 billion from $9.83 billion at year-end,
including $5.5 billion available to repay debt. Deposits
decreased 7 percent to $4.85 billion.  
 CIT closed down 72 cents or 1.8 percent to $39.98 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares reached
$42.94, the highest since emerging from bankruptcy, before
global markets fell when Standard and Poor’s cut Greece’s credit
rating to junk. The stock is up 45 percent this year.  
 CIT will make the $1.5 billion repayment “very soon,”
Joseph Leone, CIT’s chief financial officer, said during the
conference call.  
 “The sooner they can pay that down, the better,” Sameer
Gokhale, an analyst at KBW Inc., said before the results were
released. He rates CIT stock “market perform.”  
 Loans and leases on which CIT is no longer accruing
interest increased 23 percent to $1.93 billion at the end of
December, CIT said. Almost half of the increase was tied to the
unit’s transportation finance unit, which leases airplanes and
railroad equipment.  
 Officials are “comfortable that we don’t have a lot of risk
exposure” on the transportation loans, Leone said. “The
collateral value is very good.”  
 Fresh Start  
 Results benefited from accounting adjustments, which were
greater than forecast because more customers repaid loans faster
than anticipated, Leone said. Under “fresh start accounting”
that the company was required to adopt on its exit from
bankruptcy, CIT marked its loans to fair value, discounting many
loans to less than what customers owed. As more of those loans
were repaid than expected, the discounts were reversed, which
contributed to income.  
 The impact of those changes, along with some changes in
depreciation, amounted to $421 million before tax, according to
the statement.  
 Without the accounting adjustments, CIT’s real profit
margins are “unacceptable,” Leone said. The company is making
only 0.65 percentage points between its cost of money and what
it makes on loans and leases, he said. The accounting
adjustments caused the company to report profit that reflected
interest margins about five times higher, at 4.09 points,
according to the company’s statement.  
 The accounting adjustments aren’t entirely non-cash, Thain
said in the conference call. He pointed out that they reflect
repayments of loans that provide CIT cash which it can use to
pay down expensive borrowings.  
 Book Value  
 Book value per common share, a gauge of what’s left for
investors after all liabilities are covered, rose 1.5 percent to
$42.63 a share. Tangible book value, which excludes goodwill,
was $40.43 a share.  
 The results aren’t directly comparable to past quarters
because the lender’s financial structure was changed when it
emerged from bankruptcy Dec. 10, analysts said. CIT issued 200
million new shares to creditors at the conclusion of the
bankruptcy and canceled existing stock. Debt was reduced by
$10.4 billion.  
 CIT has $23.2 billion of outstanding bonds, which haven’t
been rated by Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s Investors Service
since they were issued in the bankruptcy. If the bonds were
rated junk, or speculative grade, the amount owed would be more
than the total dollar-denominated bonds outstanding for all but
three of more than 900 companies listed in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch High-Yield Master II index.  
 CIT filed for bankruptcy court protection in November with
agreements from creditors to restructure its debts. The case was
the fifth-largest U.S. commercial bankruptcy.  
 The action came after CIT failed to convince the government
that it should receive an additional form of bailout backing
following a $2.3 billion infusion in exchange for preferred
stock and warrants in December 2008. The government lost its
entire investment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Henry in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        