-- Citadel Seeks Better Dollar Thrifty Terms Than `Complete Steal' by Hertz
-- Katie Merx
-- 2010-04-27T15:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/citadel-seeks-better-dollar-thrifty-terms-than-complete-steal-by-hertz.html

          
          
             Citadel Investment Group LLC, the
third-biggest shareholder of Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group
Inc., said Hertz Global Holdings Inc. should pay more for the
rental-car company than a $1.2 billion “complete steal.”  
 The takeover values Dollar Thrifty at slightly more than
three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, J.J. Berney, a Citadel portfolio manager, said
yesterday on a Hertz conference call. Citadel, the hedge-fund
firm run by Kenneth Griffin, manages about $12.5 billion.  
 That multiple “seems like a complete steal,” Berney told
executives on the call. He said Hertz should put up more stock
than the 20 percent now planned, so Dollar Thrifty holders get a
bigger slice of the value from the $180 million of annual cost
savings that Hertz projects from the merger.  
 Berney raised his objections after Park Ridge, New Jersey-
based Hertz announced the accord to acquire Dollar Thrifty for
$41 a share, 80 percent of it in cash. Hertz said it would climb
to No. 2 in U.S. market share, passing Avis Budget Group Inc.
and trailing only Enterprise Holdings Inc.  
 Hertz Chief Executive Officer Mark Frissora disputed
Berney’s figures. “In terms of the value to both shareholders
it’s excellent,” he said. “The synergies are unique to these
two companies. So I feel like we generated a transaction that
will be a win-win for both companies given what the industry is
doing now and what the future holds for it.”  
 Hertz’s Estimate  
 Hertz estimates that the deal values Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
Dollar Thrifty at about 5.7 times estimated 2011 Ebitda,
according to an e-mail message from Richard Broome, a spokesman.
Kindra Marts, director of investor relations at Dollar Thrifty,
declined to comment.  
 Berney said the terms place Dollar Thrifty’s enterprise
value, a figure that typically excludes cash, at about $1
billion, or just over three times Ebitda. That would include the
$140 million of Ebitda that Dollar Thrifty will generate in
2010, based on the average estimate of 6 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg, plus the $180 million of savings from the merger.  
 Hertz fell 26 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $14.43 at 11:14
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, while Dollar
Thrifty slid 33 cents, to $42.74. Each company’s shares jumped
more than 11 percent yesterday.  
 Citadel held about 1.5 million shares, or 5.4 percent, as
of March 18, according to a regulatory filing that day. T. Rowe
Price Associates Inc. and MSD Capital LP were the two biggest
Dollar Thrifty Holders, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Devon Spurgeon, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Citadel,
declined to comment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Merx in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 kmerx@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        