-- Citigroup Says Asset Bubble Is `Very Real' in Chinese Residential Property
-- Chia-Peck Wong
-- 2010-04-27T08:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/citigroup-says-asset-bubble-is-very-real-in-chinese-residential-property.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc., the fourth-biggest
U.S. bank, sees a “very real” bubble in the Chinese
residential property market which the nation’s government is
taking “incremental steps” to address.  
 “China is being sensible by trying to address this,”
Thomas Flexner, Citigroup’s global head of real estate, said
today at a briefing in Singapore. “The market is beginning to
believe they are serious.”  
 Fueled by a $586 billion stimulus package and $1.4 trillion
of record new loans last year, China’s property prices rose 11.7
percent in March, the most since data began in 2005, adding
urgency to the government’s efforts to cool the market. China on
April 20 ordered developers not to take deposits for sales of
uncompleted flats without proper approval, adding to curbs on
loans for third-home purchases, and increased down-payment
requirements and mortgage rates.  
 While China’s measures may lead to “potential losses” in
the high-end and more speculative sectors of the first-tier
cities, Flexner said the curbs aren’t likely to overshoot and
restrict growth in the other parts of the economy.  
 This puts him in the same camp as Fan Gang, a former
People’s Bank of China adviser, who said the government’s
efforts are stabilizing the real estate market before the
emergence of any “big” bubble such as those seen previously in
the U.S. and Japan.  
 Hedge fund manager James Chanos is overly pessimistic about
China’s property market because he underestimates the
government’s efforts to avoid a bubble, Fan said in a Bloomberg
Television interview recorded in Hong Kong yesterday.  
 Hong Kong, Singapore  
 Chanos said this month China is on a “treadmill to hell”
because it’s hooked on property development to drive growth.  
 “That statement is under the assumption that Chinese are
stupid, Chinese will not do anything to deal with that,” Fan
said.  
 Government stimulus helped fuel economic growth in Asian
countries such as Hong Kong and China, boosting home prices.
Residential values in Hong Kong and China rose the most among
the world’s major markets in the fourth quarter, property
adviser Knight Frank LLP said last week.  
 Property Prices  
 Average prices climbed almost 28 percent from a year
earlier in Hong Kong, while in China they advanced 25 percent,
according to a global index compiled by the London-based broker.
Worldwide, the index, which covers 47 markets, fell by an
average of 3.8 percent.  
 In Hong Kong, the government may increase sales taxes on
some properties and accelerate government land auctions,
Financial Secretary John Tsang said April 21.  
 Singapore’s government said today it will increase the
supply of land for housing, and implement more measures to curb
property speculation if necessary.  
 The measures introduced in Singapore in February and
September have already helped moderate the increases in private
and public housing prices, Minister for National Development Mah
Bow Tan said in response to a question in parliament today. The
Government Land Sales program, which offered 26 sites in the
first half, will include a larger supply in the second half as
long as demand remains strong, he said.  
 Singapore’s home prices rose 5.6 percent in the three
months ended March 31, the Urban Redevelopment Authority said
April 23. The increase slowed from a 7.4 percent gain in the
previous quarter after the government in February levied a
seller’s stamp duty on residential properties and land sold
within one year after purchase.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chia-Peck Wong in Hong Kong at 
 cpwong@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Fan Gang, a former People’s Bank of China adviser, talked yesterday with Bloomberg's Susan Li in Hong Kong about China's measures to cool property prices and the nation's currency policy.
     Fan said James Chanos is overly pessimistic about China’s property market because the hedge fund manager underestimates government efforts to avoid a bubble. Chanos said earlier this month that China is on a "treadmill to hell" because it’s hooked on property development for driving growth. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
