-- CLSA Capital Partners Will Buy More Properties in Tokyo After Prices Drop
-- Katsuyo Kuwako
-- 2010-04-27T02:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/clsa-capital-partners-will-buy-more-properties-in-tokyo-after-prices-drop.html

          
          
             CLSA Capital Partners, a unit of
Credit Agricole SA, aims to buy two to three properties in Tokyo
this year through an $816 million real estate fund as it takes
advantage of declining prices and a recovery in credit markets.  
 The Fudo Capital II L.P. fund may invest about 200 billion
yen ($2.1 billion) including loans, said Hirotaka Uchiyama, the
head of Fudo-Japan, CLSA Capital Partners (Fudo) KK. The fund is
the second set up by the alternative asset management arm of
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets to focus on properties in the Asia-
Pacific region.  
 CLSA Capital Partners is betting that commercial real
estate prices in Japan will recover as credit becomes more
available after the global credit crisis and after commercial
land prices in the country fell to the lowest in at least 36
years in 2009.  
 “There are various views on whether Japan’s property
market has hit a bottom,” Uchiyama, who joined CLSA Capital
Partners last July, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday.
“But the one thing that is common to everyone’s thinking is
that we’re definitely close, which gives risk takers like us a
good opportunity.”  
 CLSA Capital Partners closed the fund to new investors in
November after raising more than its target of $750 million and
has already invested in two office buildings, one in Sydney’s
financial district and the other in Tokyo.  
 Hiring in Tokyo  
 Uchiyama, a former chairman and chief executive officer at
LaSalle Investment Management K.K., said Japanese investments
will make up a “sizeable portion” of the fund because there is
limited risk of further declines.  
 “Japan is a key market for us now,” the 51-year-old said.  
 Uchiyama, who currently leads a team of seven in Tokyo,
said he plans to hire several more people this year as the firm
expands its investment in Japan.  
 “A rising number of real-estate funds being formed is
evidence of how investors are starting to take a look at Japan’s
property market once again after the crisis,” said Hideyuki
Shinkai, a Tokyo-based fund manager for Norinchukin Trust &
Banking Co. “We expect more property funds to be formed.”  
 Japan’s 38 publicly traded real estate investment trusts
more than doubled property purchases in the first quarter to 229
billion yen, according to IB Research and Consulting Inc.  
 Kenedix Inc., Japan’s biggest publicly traded real estate
asset manager, and Chuo Mitsui Trust & Banking Co., Japan’s
third-largest trust bank by assets, said in March they plan to
start investing in property.  
 Fudo Capital II L.P. follows the firm’s first fund, which
started in 2005 and raised $430 million, according to Uchiyama.
The first fund is selling properties and has produced an
internal rate of return above 20 percent, Uchiyama said. It has
two properties left to sell, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        