-- Coast Guard May Burn Surface Oil to Reduce Gulf Rig Spill
-- Mark Chediak
-- 2010-04-27T23:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/coast-guard-may-burn-surface-oil-to-reduce-spill-from-gulf-rig-explosion.html

          
          
             The U.S. Coast Guard is considering
burning off parts of an oil slick in the Gulf of Mexico as soon
as tomorrow as the spill drifts closer to land.  
 The slick, the result of the sinking of a deep-water oil
rig in the Gulf, has drifted 21 miles (34 kilometers) from the
coast of Louisiana, U.S. Coast Guard Rear Admiral Mary Landry,
the federal coordinator of the response, said at a press
conference today.  
 BP Plc, owner of the well, is spending $6 million a day
trying to clean up the spill and stop the underwater flow, which
continues at rate of about 1,000 barrels a day.  
 “We are possibly 90 days out from securing the source
permanently,” Landry said. “Burns can be very effective in
providing a marked and significant decrease in the amount of oil
contained in a spill area.”  
 The spill may be one of the most significant in U.S.
history and the deepest spill of oil on record, Landry said.  
 BP today began placing floating oil barriers to protect the
Delta National Wildlife Refuge in Louisiana, Landry said.
Barriers will be also be placed in Mississippi, Alabama and
Florida as needed to protect birds and areas sensitive to
pollution, she said.  
 The Deepwater Horizon, owned by Geneva-based Transocean
Ltd., exploded and sunk last week, leaving 11 of the 126-member
crew dead. The U.S. Interior Department’s Minerals Management
Service and the Coast Guard are investigating the cause as they
guide the cleanup.  
 Valve Shutoff Unsuccessful  
 A three-day effort to shut valves on the seafloor, using
remote-operated vehicles, failed but will continue as engineers
devise new techniques that may succeed, Doug Suttles, BP’s chief
operating officer for exploration and production, said at the
press conference.  
 BP’s biggest expense from the rig explosion and sinking
will be $100 million to drill another well that will plug the
damaged well permanently, Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward
told reporters today. Suttles has said several wells may need to
be drilled, taking as long as three months.  
 The company hopes to lower a dome-shaped apparatus toward
the seafloor to capture the leak and pump it into tanks on the
surface. That may take a month to put in place, Lars Herbst, a
Minerals Management Service official, said at the press
conference.  
 Burning the Oil  
 The controlled burn of the oil wouldn’t be visible from the
shore, Landry said.  
 The most recent controlled burn at a spill, off
Newfoundland in 1993, consumed as much as 99 percent of the oil
that crews managed to trap inside a special fire-resistant boom,
Landry said.  
 “It is useful as far as limiting potential environmental
damage to marine life and limiting the amount of oil that makes
landfall,” said Ken Medlock, a fellow in energy studies at Rice
University’s James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy in
Houston. “Even if they do this, they still have to cap it. You
can’t just burn and let it continue to leak.”  
 Hayward and other senior BP executives met at the White
House today with Obama senior adviser Valerie Jarrett, energy
and climate change policy adviser Carol Browner, Interior
Secretary Ken Salazar, Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano and Admiral Thad Allen, the U.S. Coast Guard
commandant, according to an administration official.  
 Discussion focused on BP’s understanding of the situation
and actions the company is taking in response, including surface
and subsurface activities, the official said.  
 Napolitano and Salazar announced they’d signed an order
outlining responsibility for a joint investigation of the cause
of the disaster by the Coast Guard, a Homeland Security branch
and the Minerals Management Service, which regulates offshore
drilling in federal waters and is part of Salazar’s agency.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        