-- Coffee Output, Sales From India May be Reduced by Patchy Pre-Monsoon Rains
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-04-27T08:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/coffee-output-sales-from-india-may-be-reduced-by-patchy-pre-monsoon-rains.html

          
          
             Patchy pre-monsoon showers in some
parts of India’s main coffee-growing regions may hurt the crop
this year, state-owned Coffee Board said, likely paring sales
from Asia’s third-biggest producer.  
 Rainfall over the southern states of Karnataka, Kerala and
Tamil Nadu was not “consistent and uniform,” said G.V. Krishna
Rau, chairman of the board. The agency will announce its post-
blossom forecast by the middle of May, he said in an interview.  
 A decline in shipments from India, which exports almost 70
percent of its output, may help Vietnam and Indonesia increase
sales just as demand in the U.S. and Japan, the largest and
third-biggest buyers, recover from the worst postwar recession.  
 “Showers in April have not been widespread this year as
they usually are,” Anil Bhandari, a member of the board and a
grower, said from Bangalore. “There has not been enough back up
rain to aid fruit-bearing in some areas.”  
 India’s coffee production in the year ending Sept. 30 will
rise 10 percent to 289,600 tons this year, the board said Dec.
14. Exports may expand by 15 to 20 percent, slowing from a 29
percent gain so far this season, Ramesh Rajah, president of the
Coffee Exporters’ Association of India, said March 30.  
 Rains were 56 percent below average in northern Karnataka
and 33.5 percent above normal in the southern areas of the state,
according to data from the weather office. Showers over Kerala
were 5 percent below normal, the agency said.  
 “Most of the aberrations related to the blossom showers
are localized,” Rau said. “Some areas got good rains, while
some areas saw a deficit and some didn’t get back-up showers.”  
 Rainfall in India’s June-September monsoon season this year
may be 98 percent of the 50-year average, a level deemed normal,
the weather office said last week, aiding crops including coffee,
sugar cane, rice and oilseeds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        