-- Colon Cancer Risks Slashed With Single, Five-Minute Procedure
-- Michelle Fay Cortez
-- 2010-04-27T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/colon-cancer-risks-cut-with-single-five-minute-procedure-researchers-say.html

          
          
             A single, five-minute procedure to
detect and remove growths from the colon slashes  cancer  rates by
one-third and reduces deaths by 43 percent, researchers said.  
 The 16-year study involving more than 170,000 people in the
U.K. found a simple procedure known as  sigmoidoscopy  may have
lifelong implications for preventing the second-biggest cancer
killer worldwide, said lead researcher Wendy Atkin from Imperial
College London. More than 1 million people are diagnosed with
colorectal cancer each year, and 600,000 die from it. The study
results appear today in the medical journal  Lancet .  
 Atkin, a professor of surgery and oncology, said everyone
in the U.K. should be offered the exam at age 55, when pre-
cancerous polyps are present and not yet deadly. Britons are now
given a  test  that detects blood in the stool to diagnose cancer,
a less effective approach that doesn’t prevent disease. The U.S.
 recommends  blood tests, sigmoidoscopy every five years, or more
invasive exams known as colonoscopies once a decade.  
 “It’s extremely rare to see the results of a clinical
trial that are as compelling as this one,” said Harpal Kumar,
chief executive officer of the charity group  Cancer Research UK ,
at a briefing in London yesterday. “It’s a no-brainer that this
has to be introduced. Thousands of lives could be saved every
year and tens of thousands of families could be spared the
diagnosis of bowel cancer.”  
 Saving Money  
 The approach could ultimately save money for the  National
Health Service  by reducing the number of people undergoing
treatment for bowel cancer, Atkin said. The researchers didn’t
calculate the cost of the procedure, she said. Rolling it out
nationwide would require additional training and expanded
facilities to accommodate the demand, she said.  
 The procedure is done using a flexible tube slightly larger
in diameter than a ballpoint pen that is threaded through the
rectum and the bottom third of the colon, where two-thirds of
colorectal cancers and pre-cancerous growths develop. When a
growth is detected, it’s either burned off or removed in an
additional step that can take four more minutes, researchers
said. While it’s not painful and doesn’t require sedation,
patients must give themselves an enema before treatment.  
 The study was funded by the Medical Research Council, the
National Institute for Health Research and Cancer Research UK.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in London at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        