-- Commerzbank Fined $914,000 Over Transaction Reports, U.K. Regulator Says
-- Caroline Binham
-- 2010-04-27T10:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/commerzbank-is-fined-914-000-by-u-k-regulator-over-transaction-reports.html

          
          
             Commerzbank AG’s London unit was
fined 595,000 pounds ($914,200) after it failed to properly
report transactions to regulators, hindering efforts to stop
insider trading, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said.  
 Commerzbank, based in Frankfurt, failed to accurately
report 94 percent of trades over a two-year period, even though
the regulator reminded companies that it was cracking down on
incomplete data submissions, according to an FSA report
published today. Companies are supposed to disclose transactions
by the end of the next working day so the agency can use the
information to spot possible insider trades.  
 “Commerzbank’s reporting failures could have a damaging
impact on our ability to detect and investigate suspected market
abuse,” said Alexander Justham, the FSA’s director of markets.
“Complete and accurate transaction reports are an essential
component of the FSA’s market-monitoring work.”  
 As part of its effort to be a tougher regulator, the FSA
has focused on stamping out insider trading after lawmakers
criticized the agency for not doing enough to wipe out the
practice. Commerzbank’s fine follows 4.2 million pounds of
penalties levied on Credit Suisse Group AG, Instinet Europe Ltd.
and Getco Holding Co. LLC’s European division earlier this month
for similar failings.  
 “Commerzbank has fully cooperated with the FSA and is
deeply committed to meeting its regulatory obligations,”
Commerzbank spokeswoman Margarita Thiel said by telephone.  
 Reduced Fine  
 Cooperating with the FSA earned the bank a 30 percent
discount on a fine that otherwise would have been 850,000
pounds, according to the regulator. The bank also improved its
reporting process after a 2009 internal review, the FSA said.  
 Under FSA rules, firms should provide the regulator with
details of the product that is traded, the buyer and seller, the
price, and the quantity.  
 “There are two views on this: one is that they should have
got it right and the clever people at firms who did bother to
invest can feel very smug,” said Chris Brennan, a regulatory
lawyer at Barlow Lyde & Gilbert in London. “The contrary view is
that it’s difficult to get right, and getting compliance guys to
talk to IT guys is a feat in itself.”  
 It’s easy to get a 100 percent fail rate through errors
like routing trades through a U.S.-based computer server that
converts dates to an American rather than European calendar,
Brennan said.  
 Around 1.3 million trades weren’t reported properly or at
all by Commerzbank’s London office between 2007 and 2009,
according to the FSA’s investigation report. Some trading books
from London were marked as books from the bank’s Frankfurt
headquarters, which meant they didn’t go to the FSA at all,
while other transaction forms had the buyer and seller confused.  
 The requirement to report trade data to the FSA is part of
a European Union law. Commerzbank’s London compliance team
assumed that the Frankfurt-based parent group was taking care of
complying with the new law, the report said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Binham in London at 
 cbinham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        