-- Concha y Toro, Femsa, Redecard, Casa Grande: Latin America Equity Preview
-- Paulo Winterstein
-- 2010-04-27T08:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/concha-y-toro-femsa-redecard-casa-grande-latin-america-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies may have
unusual price changes today in Latin American trading. Stock
symbols are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous
close.  
 The MSCI Latin America Index was little changed, dropping
1.02 points to 4,192.61. In Brazil, preferred shares usually are
the most-traded class of stock.  
 Brazil  
 Redecard SA (RDCD3 BS): Brazil’s second-biggest card-
payment processor said it elected Marcelo Kopel, a former
executive at Citigroup Inc.’s Brazil unit, as Chief Financial
Officer. Redecard fell 0.1 percent to 29.15 reais.  
 Chile  
 Enjoy SA (ENJOY CC): The Chilean casino operator that raised
$42 million in an initial public offering in July reported
first-quarter profit of 1.96 billion pesos. That compares with a
net loss of 2.48 billion in the same period last year, according
to data posted on the Web site of Chile’s securities regulator.
Enjoy closed unchanged at 50 pesos.  
 Vina Concha & Toro SA (CONCHA CC): Chile’s biggest winemaker
plans to invest $40 million this year to expand vineyards,
Chairman Alfonso Larrain said. Losses of about 22 million liters
in February’s earthquake are covered by insurance, he told
reporters in Santiago yesterday. Concha & Toro slid 2.2 percent
to 1,128.2 pesos.  
 Mexico  
 Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUBD MM): Latin
America’s largest beverage company expects to close the
transaction to sell its beer unit to Heineken NV in the “next
few days” after the Mexican company’s shareholders approved the
deal, Chief Financial Officer Javier Astaburuaga said. Femsa, as
the Monterrey-based company is known, slid 0.6 percent to 58.2
pesos.  
 Peru  
 Casa Grande (CASAGRC1 PE): Peru’s government declared a
state of emergency for 180 days in the sugar industry, enabling
companies to import sugar to offset declining production and
lower domestic prices, Cabinet Chief Javier Velasquez said. Casa
Grande, Peru’s largest sugar producer, fell 1.5 percent to 7.67
soles.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Paulo Winterstein in Sao Paulo at 
 pwinterstein@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 Jattwood3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        