-- ConocoPhillips May Announce Decision on Shah Sour-Gas Project This Week
-- Ayesha Daya
-- 2010-04-27T20:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/conocophillips-may-announce-decision-on-shah-sour-gas-project-this-week.html

          
          
             ConocoPhillips, the third-largest
U.S. oil company, may announce its decision this week on whether
to remain a partner in the Shah sour-gas project with Abu Dhabi,
according to people familiar with the matter.  
 The disclosure of ConocoPhillips’s plan may come as soon as
tomorrow, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak on the subject. John
McLemore, a ConocoPhillips spokesman, declined today to comment
on the Shah project. The project’s cost has been estimated at
$10 billion.  
 Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., the state-owned oil producer,
and ConocoPhillips agreed in 2008 to jointly work on the Shah
gas project. ConocoPhillips, based in Houston, said Shah fit
with its global strategy, in part because of its experience in
developing high-sulfur gas fields. The U.S. company said in
October that it will sell $10 billion of assets over two years
to help reduce debt.  
 “The overall goal of the restructuring I guess we could
say is to improve their returns,” said Philip Weiss, an analyst
at Argus Research in New York who has a “hold” rating on
ConocoPhillips shares and owns none. “Within that concept or
idea, now they have to look at, ‘All right, which of our
projects generate adequate returns?’”  
 ConocoPhillips this month pulled out of the proposed Yanbu
refinery venture with Saudi Aramco, citing a plan to tighten the
company’s focus on exploring for petroleum. The company said in
December it planned to make investment decisions on the Yanbu
and Shah projects in the first half of 2010.  
 Gas Push  
 Oil-exporting nations such as the United Arab Emirates are
seeking to boost production of natural gas to fuel domestic
power generation and factories.  
 The head of communications at the joint venture with
ConocoPhillips, Abu Dhabi Gas Development Co., didn’t answer
telephone calls seeking comment. Abu Dhabi, an oil-rich U.A.E.
sheikdom, chose ConocoPhillips for the Shah project after
considering bids from such companies as Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and Occidental Petroleum Corp.  
 The development is scheduled to start production in the
second or third quarter of 2014, Saif Ahmed Al-Ghafli, chief
executive officer of the joint venture, told reporters last
month.  
 The Shah project will process 1 billion cubic feet of sour
gas a day and turn that into more than 500 million cubic feet of
fuel for sale and 10,000 tons of sulfur daily, Al-Ghafli said.  
 Ryan Lance, a senior vice president for international
exploration and production at ConocoPhillips, said at a March
analyst meeting that the company needs to know what the project
will cost. He said ConocoPhillips will make a value-based
decision.  
 Exxon Mobil and Chevron Corp. are the largest U.S. oil
companies.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        