-- Consumer Confidence Hits Highest Level Since 2008
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-04-27T20:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-rises-to-highest-level-since-08-on-job-gains.html

          
          
             Consumers in the U.S. turned more
optimistic in April as the growing economy raised hopes jobs
will become available.  
 The Conference Board’s confidence index rose to 57.9,
exceeding all forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
and the highest level since Lehman Brothers Inc. collapsed in
September 2008, according to data from the New York-based
private research group. The measure averaged 97 during the last
expansion.  
 Americans’ outlook for the next six months climbed to the
highest level since October 2007, two months before the
recession began, as almost one in every five people polled
thought the world’s largest economy and employment would
improve. Another report showed home prices in the 12 months to
February rose less than forecast, showing the housing market
recovery will take time to unfold.  
 “The sentiment numbers tell us the labor market is
improving, suggesting the consumer is going to continue to
spend,” said Nigel Gault, chief U.S. economist at IHS Global
Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts, whose confidence estimate
of 57 matched the highest. “We still don’t have any firm,
underlying housing recovery in place yet.”  
 Stocks plunged, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
down by the most since February, on growing concern over the
European debt crisis. The S&P index fell 2.3 percent to close at
1,183.71. Treasury securities rose, reflecting demand for the
safest of government securities, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 3.69 percent at 4:33 p.m. in New
York from 3.81 percent late yesterday.  
 Exceeds Forecasts  
 The median forecast of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected the confidence index would rise to 53.5. Estimates
ranged from 48 to 57. The Conference Board revised the March
figure to 52.3 from a previous estimate of 52.5.  
 Pessimism is starting to abate after employers boosted
payrolls in three of the past five months. More job growth will
be needed to spark bigger gains in confidence, incomes and
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  
 The Conference Board’s report stood in contrast to a
preliminary survey by Reuters/University of Michigan issued
earlier this month, which showed sentiment unexpectedly dropped
as Americans fretted about jobs and health care.  
 Home Prices  
 Another report showed home prices climbed less than
forecast, a sign the housing recovery will take time to develop.
The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities rose
0.6 percent in February from the same month last year. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a
1.3 percent advance.  
 Home prices in February were 30 percent below the peak
reached in July 2006, the report showed. Mounting foreclosures
are likely to pressure prices for much of the year.  
 “The big plunge is over, but significant strength is
unlikely,” said Jim O’Sullivan, chief economist at MF Global
Ltd. in New York. “There is still a huge excess of vacant
houses.”  
 The Conference Board’s confidence measure of present
conditions rose this month to the highest level since May. The
gauge of expectations for the next six months jumped to 77.4
from 70.4.  
 The share of respondents expecting more jobs to become
available rose to a seven-month high of 18 percent from 14.1
percent. Nonetheless, the proportion of people who expect their
incomes to rise over the next six months dropped to 10.3 percent
from 10.8 percent.  
 Employment Gains  
 The labor market is showing signs of improving. Employers
in March added 162,000 jobs, the most in three years, Labor
Department figures showed April 2.  
 Joblessness may still be slow to decline as the improving
economy entices more people to re-enter the labor force.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg earlier this month project the
unemployment rate, at 9.7 percent in March, will end the year at
9.4 percent.  
 Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told Congress on
April 14 that high unemployment and weak construction were among
the “significant restraints” on the pace of growth. At their
March 16 meeting, central bankers said economic conditions are
likely to warrant “exceptionally low levels of the federal
funds rate for an extended period.”  
 The policy making Federal Open Market Committee meets today
and tomorrow to discuss the course of interest rates.  
 Spending Improves  
 Americans are beginning to spend more. Consumer purchases
probably rose at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the first three
months of this year, almost double the fourth-quarter pace and
the most in three years, according to a Bloomberg survey ahead
of an April 30 report.  
 The Commerce Department’s advanced figures on first-quarter
gross domestic product will probably also show the nation’s
economy grew at a 3.3 percent annual rate, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Starbucks Corp., the world’s largest coffee-shop operator,
raised its annual forecast after reporting second-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates.  
 “We’re benefiting from a consumer who’s feeling just a
little bit better,” Troy Alstead, chief financial officer of
Starbucks, said in a telephone interview after the Seattle-based
company announced earnings on April 21.  
 Whirlpool Corp., the world’s largest appliance maker,
yesterday boosted its forecast for the year and said sales for
the first quarter were 20 percent higher than a year earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Courtney Schlisserman in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Customers line up before the opening of a new Best Buy store in the Harlem neighborhood of New York, on March 27, 2010. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
