-- Copper, Metals Plummet as Europe Credit-Rating Cuts Erode Demand Prospects
-- Pham-Duy Nguyen
-- 2010-04-27T19:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/copper-plummets-most-in-10-months-after-s-p-cuts-greece-portugal-ratings.html

          
          
             Copper fell the most in 10 months,
leading a slide by industrial metals, as cuts in credit ratings
for Greece and Portugal threatened to undermine economic
recoveries and erode demand for raw materials.  
 Standard & Poor’s slashed Greece’s rating to junk, and cut
Portugal’s by two steps, fueling concern that a debt crisis will
spread through Europe. The S&P 500 Index of U.S. equities
plunged as much as 2 percent. Aluminum, copper and nickel posted
the biggest declines among the 19 commodities tracked by the
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index, which sank as much as 2 percent.  
 “Copper is the benchmark macro metal,” said Michael
Guido, the director of hedge-fund sales at Macquarie Bank Ltd.
in New York. “This whole euro-zone default fear has come to the
foreground and is pressuring demand. The primary driver for the
sell-off is the fear of the Greece contagion spilling over to
Portugal and Spain and leaning on the global equity markets.”  
 Copper futures for July delivery plummeted 16.55 cents, or
4.7 percent, to $3.3825 a pound on the Comex in New York, the
biggest drop for a most-active contract since June 22. The price
is up 1.1 percent this year.  
 On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 2.1 percent to $7,650 a metric ton. Aluminum plunged
7.2 percent to $2,150 a ton, and nickel slipped 4.5 percent to
$25,925 a ton. Lead, tin and zinc also declined.  
 Greece was lowered to BB+ from BBB+ by S&P, which also
warned that bondholders could recover as little as 30 percent of
their initial investment if the country restructures its debt.
Portugal’s rating dropped to A- from A+. European Union policy
makers are struggling to agree on measures to ease the panic
over swelling budget deficits.  
 Dollar Gains  
 The downgrades by S&P sparked a “flight to safety” away
from most commodities to assets including U.S. bonds, gold and
the dollar, said Donald Selkin, the chief market strategist at
National Securities Corp. in New York. The U.S. Dollar Index,
which values the currency against six counterparts including the
euro, rose the most in five weeks.  
 “Traders are selling anything that has a hint of risk,”
said Adam Klopfenstein, a senior market strategist at Lind-
Waldock, a broker in Chicago. “Portugal roiled the markets.
There’s indication that Greece’s problems are spreading to other
countries. Traders are questioning the economic recovery in
Europe so they’re selling all industrial commodities and
reassessing the situation later.”  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she won’t release
funds for Greece until it has a “sustainable” plan to reduce
its deficit.  
 China Slowdown  
 In China, the world’s top copper consumer, the benchmark
equity index fell to a six-month low on concern that government
measures to cool the property market will damp consumer spending
and curb demand for raw materials.  
 In the U.S., copper’s second-largest user, consumer
confidence rose this month to 57.9 from 52.3 in March, according
to the Conference Board. The median in a Bloomberg survey was
53.5. Copper stockpiles tracked by the LME fell 0.2 percent to
505,350 tons. Bookings to remove metal from warehouses declined
0.9 percent to 30,400 tons.  
 In Japan, the world’s fifth-largest user, output of copper
and copper-alloy fabricated products more than doubled in March,
the Japan Copper and Brass Association said.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        