-- Copper Declines in New York, London on Concern About Greece, the Dollar
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-04-27T12:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/copper-declines-in-london-on-concerns-about-potential-delays-in-greek-aid.html

          
          
             Copper fell for the first time in
three days in New York and London on concern that Greece’s debt
crisis may spread, undermining economic recoveries, and as the
dollar strengthened.  
 The U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge against six counterparts
including the euro, advanced for a second day after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said she won’t release funds for Greece
until it has a “sustainable” plan to reduce its deficit.  
 “The major topic is the U.S. dollar, which has
strengthened further against the euro, on the uncertainty about
Greece and the reluctant German attitude toward providing funds
for Greece -- that is all weighing on markets,” said Peter
Fertig, the owner of Hainburg, Germany-based Quantitative
Commodity Research Ltd. “There are fears Greece could declare
bankruptcy and that would have a devastating impact.”  
 Futures for July delivery declined 6.85 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $3.4795 a pound at 8:28 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Copper for delivery in three months fell 2.1 percent to
$7,650 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  
 In China, the world’s top copper consumer, the benchmark
equity index fell to a six-month low, on concern government
measures to cool the property market will damp consumer spending
and curb demand for raw materials.  
 In the U.S., copper’s second-largest user, consumer
confidence probably rose this month to 53.5 from 52.5, according
to the median in a Bloomberg survey. The report from the
Conference Board is scheduled for 10 a.m. in Washington.  
 Copper stockpiles tracked by the LME fell 0.2 percent to
505,350 tons. Bookings to remove metal from warehouses declined
0.9 percent to 30,400 tons.  
 Fabricated Products  
 In Japan, the world’s fifth-largest user, output of copper
and copper-alloy fabricated products more than doubled in March,
the Japan Copper and Brass Association said.  
 Nickel for three-month delivery on the LME fell 1.3 percent
to $26,800 a ton. Prices have gained 44 percent this year, the
most among the six main metals traded on the exchange. Two-
thirds of global nickel output is used to make stainless steel.  
 Outokumpu Oyj, a Finnish stainless-steel maker, said output
is “gradually” rebounding on improved demand.  
 Aluminum fell 1 percent to $2,293.50 a ton. Stockpiles in
LME warehouses dropped for a third day, down 0.1 percent to 4.55
million tons.  
 There are about 2 million tons of unregistered and 6
million tons of registered aluminum stockpiles globally, Norsk
Hydro ASA Chief Executive Officer Svein Richard Brandtzaeg said
today in a Web cast.  
 Tin fell 1.3 percent to $18,900 a ton; lead dropped 1.7
percent to $2,320 a ton; zinc lost 1.6 percent to $2,403 a ton.  
 -- With assistance by Marianne Stigset in Oslo, Thomas
Biesheuvel in London, Li Xiaowei in Shanghai, Jae Hur and Ichiro
Suzuki in Tokyo, Yasuhiko Seki in Tokyo and Ron Harui in
Singapore. Editors: Stuart Wallace  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
Anna Stablum in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        