-- Soybeans Advance on Concern Rains May Disrupt Brazil Exports; Wheat Gains
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-04-27T06:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/corn-drops-for-third-day-on-favorable-weather-faster-u-s-crop-planting.html

          
          
             Soybeans rose for the first time in
three sessions in Chicago on concern exports from Brazil, the
world’s second-largest shipper of the oilseed, may be disrupted
by rains, prompting buyers to seek U.S. supplies.  
 Soybeans for July delivery rose 0.2 percent to $10.1075 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 1:09 p.m., reversing a
0.4 percent drop earlier. The contract touched $10.20 yesterday,
the highest level since Jan. 11.  
 Loading at Paranagua, Brazil’s second-biggest soybean port,
was interrupted in the last three days because of rains, Luiz
Antonio Borges da Silva, head of commodity exports at the port,
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  
 “If we do see a significant disruption to exports, then
that could be construed as a positive factor for U.S. demand,”
Toby Hassall, commodity analyst at CWA Global Markets Pty in
Sydney. Still, he said, “it is important to look at the big
picture and certainly, the South American exporters are taking
an increasing share of the trade.”  
 A 30-kilometer (19-mile) line of trucks is parked at the
port’s inspection area waiting to unload newly harvested beans,
Silva said. The bulk of soybean exports from the South American
nation that’s forecast by the USDA to account for 32 percent of
global trade this year, are shipped between March and May.  
 Weather institute Simepar, based in Curitiba, Brazil,
forecasts rain may persist until April 28.  
 Premium Widens  
 Cash premiums for soybeans shipped to export terminals near
New Orleans widened relative to Chicago futures after a drop in
prices from a three-month high discouraged U.S. farmers from
selling inventories.  
 The spot-basis bid, or premium, for deliveries this month
was 40 cents to 46 cents a bushel above May futures on April 26
on the Chicago Board of Trade, compared with 41 cents to 42
cents on April 23, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. A
week earlier, premiums were 36 cents to 38 cents.  
 July-delivery corn was unchanged at $3.595 a bushel at 1:17
p.m. Singapore time, after losing as much as 0.7 percent earlier.  
 Futures fell earlier on speculation that favorable weather
and faster planting is raising the yield outlook of the biggest
U.S. crop. About 50 percent of the corn crop was seeded as of
April 25, compared with 19 percent a week earlier and 20 percent
last year, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said yesterday.  
 “The 2010 U.S. crop has got off to a cracking start,”
said CWA’s Hassall. “The grain markets will be kept on the
defensive by the growing supply.”  
 Volatile Wheat  
 July-delivery wheat rose 0.5 percent to $4.905 a bushel at
1:24 p.m. Singapore time. The contract slumped as much as 6.3
percent yesterday, after earlier climbing to $5.15, the highest
price for a most-active contract since March 4.  
 Yesterday’s volatility may reflect the large bets some
investors are making on further price declines, Hassall said.  
 Hedge fund managers and other big speculators held a net
44,406 contracts betting on lower prices on April 20, according
to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. Net-short
positions reached 60,457 contracts in February, the most since
at least 1993.  
 “That keeps the market vulnerable to short-covering
rallies, but it’s hard to see the market sustaining any gains
with such bearish underlying fundamentals,” Hassall said.
“We’re looking at a big crop out of South America, which is on
its way into the export pipeline as we speak. And so far the
2010 U.S. crop is looking like another bumper crop.”  
 About 69 percent of the U.S. winter wheat crop was in good
or excellent condition in the week ended April 25, compared with
45 percent a year earlier, the USDA said yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Evans in Wellington at 
 gavinevans@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        