-- Credit Swaps at Record High as Greek Crisis Infects Europe
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-04-27T17:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/credit-default-swaps-reach-record-high-as-greek-debt-crisis-infects-europe.html

          
          
             Greece’s credit-rating downgrade to
junk by Standard & Poor’s sent its bond yields and insurance
costs to records on speculation the country will find it more
difficult to repay its debt.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greek government bonds climbed 111
basis points to 821, according to CMA DataVision. Portugal rose
54 basis points to 365 after it had its sovereign ranking
lowered by the New York-based ratings company. Yields on Greek
two-year notes surged above 18 percent, the highest since at
least 1998, on concern bondholders will be forced to take losses
as the country grapples with the highest debt ratios in the
European Union.  
 Greece had its long-term grade cut three levels to BB+ with
a negative outlook by S&P, which also warned bondholders could
recover as little as 30 percent of their investment if the
country restructures its debt. Portugal had its rating lowered
two steps to A-, also with a negative outlook, which signals S&P
is more likely to downgrade the nation in the future.  
 “S&P has made a large move here,” said Peter Chatwell, a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in London. “It
has a wide-ranging impact on the corporate world too, with
downgrades of Greek and Portuguese banks probably being priced
in.”  
 Merkel on Aid  
 Greece’s rating downgrade followed German Chancellor Angela
Merkel saying yesterday that she won’t release funds for the
indebted nation until its government has a “sustainable” plan
to reduce its budget shortfall. Greek Prime Minister George
Papandreou asked the EU and the International Monetary Fund last
week to activate a 45 billion-euro ($60 billion) emergency
support package.  
 Swaps on Greece have surged than eight-fold since August
and contracts on Portugal are about seven times higher, CMA
prices show.  
 Governments bonds of the euro-region’s other most indebted
nations fell, while German debt rallied as investors sought
safer assets.  
 The yield on the Greek two-year note rose 505 basis points
to 18.99 percent as of 5:41 p.m. in London. The 4.3 percent
security due March 2012 fell 6.54, or 65.4 euros per 1,000-euro
face amount, to 78.32. The yield on the 10-year bond climbed 45
basis points to 10.05 percent. The yields, which move inversely
to bond prices, are the most since Bloomberg began collecting
the data in 1998.  
 ‘Contagion Risk’  
 “The biggest risk now is that the market speculates
against every single indebted peripheral country, and that could
lead to a sovereign debt crisis,” said Axel Botte, a strategist
at AXA Investment Managers in Paris. “The contagion risk is
real. It’s much easier to bail out a bank than to bail out a
country.”  
 Portuguese two-year note yields jumped 112 basis points to
5.31 percent and Ireland’s two-year note yield rose 57 basis
points to 3.74 percent.  
 Italian two-year notes slumped, pushing the yield up 30
basis points to 1.82 percent, the most since February. The yield
on Spanish two-year securities rose 14 basis points to 2.09
percent.  
 The yield on the two-year German note fell to a record 0.76
percent. The yield on the 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark
government security, dropped 11 basis points to 2.94 percent.  
 Greece’s downgrade to junk will lead some investors to
dedcide to offload its government bonds in “capitulation
selling,” Padhraic Garvey, head of investment-grade debt
strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, wrote in a note to
clients.  
 Investment Grade  
 The S&P cut may not force investors to sell Greek bonds
because the nation is still ranked as investment grade
elsewhere, said to Simon Ballard, a strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in London.
    “You’re not going to see a slew of paper coming out, at
least, not for the moment,” Ballard said.  
 Greece is rated A3, or four levels above junk, by Moody’s
Investors Service, and three levels lower at BBB- by Fitch
Ratings.  
 The euro fell 1 percent amid Greece’s and Portugal’s
credit-rating downgrades to $1.3245. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
slid 3.1 percent to the lowest in more than a month.  
 The surge in sovereign credit-default swaps also pushed up
the cost of insuring European corporate bonds from default.  
 Corporate Swaps  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index
of 50 mostly high-yield companies climbed 25.25 basis points to
446.75, while the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 investment-
grade corporates rose 7.25 basis points to 96.25, according to
Markit Group Ltd. prices.  
 Investors are paying the highest ever rates to protect
bonds of banks in Europe from default relative to the rest of
the market as the region’s fiscal crisis deepens. The Markit
iTraxx Financial Index of default swaps rose 15 basis points to
131.5, the highest level in almost a year, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  
 Credit-swaps on the Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index Series 14 rose 4.2 basis points to a mid-price of 95
basis points in New York, according to Markit Group.  
 “As long as there is no concrete solution, the market will
keep pricing in the worst-case scenario,” said Mehernosh
Engineer, a credit strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Haywood in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, speaks during a press briefing at the European Union Parliament headquarters in Brussels, on March 18, 2010. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
