-- Crude Oil May `Muck Around' Before Shooting for $88: Technical Analysis
-- Yee Kai Pin
-- 2010-04-27T04:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/crude-oil-may-muck-around-before-shooting-for-88-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Crude oil is set to reach $88 a
barrel, its highest level for this year, because price dips have
failed to snap the market’s uptrend, according to National
Australia Bank Ltd.  
 Oil, poised for a third monthly gain in April, will
continue to rise as long as prices don’t settle below $77.10 a
barrel on a daily basis, said Gordon Manning, a Sydney-based
technical analyst at Australia’s fourth-largest bank. The market
will probably “muck around” until early May before making
another run higher, he said.  
 “It hasn’t achieved much, but on balance, the upward
pattern is still intact,” Manning said in a telephone interview.
“Until that support breaks, those targets are there and they’re
legitimate targets.”  
 Crude oil declined for a second day today on concern rising
stockpiles in the U.S. indicate demand from the world’s biggest
energy consumer has yet to recover. The contract for June
delivery was at $83.92 a barrel, down 28 cents, in electronic
trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 12:48 p.m.
Singapore time. Futures have gained 6 percent this year.  
 Manning’s price target of $88 a barrel is about halfway
along the market’s descent to below $33 in December 2008 from a
record $147 in July that year.  
 Oil touched an 18-month high of $87.09 a barrel on April 6
and fell for the next five days, signaling a failed attempt at
breaking technical resistance. The market is due for another
test of resistance, Manning said.  
 “We’ve no real discernible trend in the short term but the
critical thing is, as long as that daily close holds at that
level I’ve got -- we’ve been there for several weeks now -- it’s
going to work its way up,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        