-- Daimler Raises Forecast After Mercedes-Benz Profit Jumps
-- Chris Reiter
-- 2010-04-27T14:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/daimler-raises-forecast-after-mercedes-benz-profit-jumps.html

          
          
             Daimler AG, the world’s second-
biggest maker of luxury vehicles, raised its earnings forecast
by 74 percent after demand for Mercedes-Benz cars fueled a
return to profit in the first quarter.  
 Net income was 667 million euros ($888 million), or 65
cents a share, compared with a loss of 1.32 billion euros, or
1.40 euros, a year earlier, the Stuttgart, Germany-based company
said today. Analysts had projected a 427 million-euro profit,
according to the average of five estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Daimler is seeking to close the gap with luxury market
leader Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and fend off Volkswagen AG’s
Audi. The Mercedes-Benz maker aims to gain market share this
year by introducing an extended version of its full-size E-Class
sedan, its first vehicle targeted exclusively for the fast-
growing Chinese market. Deliveries of Mercedes vehicles in China
more than doubled in the first quarter.  
 “Daimler is benefiting from the underlying market
uptrend,” said Juergen Pieper, an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler
in Frankfurt, who recommends buying the stock. “The numbers are
positive but not really surprising. I’m expecting profit to
continue to recover in coming quarters.”  
 The shares fell as much as 1.16 euros, or 2.9 percent, to
38.31 euros in Frankfurt. They had gained almost 9 percent since
April 19, when Daimler unexpectedly raised its outlook for the
Mercedes cars and heavy truck units.  
 ‘Momentum Gone’  
 “The momentum of earnings upgrades is currently gone,”
said Arndt Ellinghorst, a London-based analyst with Credit
Suisse, who has an “outperform” rating on the stock.  
 Daimler, also the world’s largest truckmaker, now projects
full-year earnings before interest and taxes of more than 4
billion euros, compared with its previous forecast of more than
2.3 billion euros.  
 Mercedes-Benz boosted production by 48 percent in the first
quarter, as output exceeded sales by more than 30,000 vehicles.
A year ago, the company halted factories and trimmed inventories
by nearly 23,000 cars and SUVs following the global financial
crisis.  
 The extra production increased inventories to about 119,000
units over the past three months, Chief Financial Officer Bodo
Ueber said in a conference call. The vehicles are destined
mainly for the U.S. and China and “should be sold in the second
quarter,” he said.  
 Sales of Mercedes cars rose 20 percent in the first
quarter, boosted by a 60 percent jump in S-Class sales and a
doubling of E-Class volumes. Growth in those high-end models
helped increase overall pricing, a trend that is likely to
continue in the coming quarters, Uebber said.  
 Gull-Wing SLS  
 Mercedes started deliveries of the gull-wing SLS sports car
in March, which retails at 177,310 euros. The company will
introduce a refreshed R-Class wagon and an updated version of
the Smart city-car in the fall. Daimler projects that Mercedes
will gain market share by growing at twice the pace of the 3
percent to 4 percent growth it estimates for the global car
market.  
 A 265 million-euro gain from the March sale of a 5.3
percent stake in Tata Motors Ltd. boosted first-quarter profit.
That gain offset a 269 million-euro charge related to cost
overruns on the A400M military-transport plane, which affects
Daimler through its 15 percent holding in Airbus SAS’s parent
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  
 Daimler reported on April 19 that first-quarter Ebit
including special items was 1.2 billion euros after a loss of
1.4 billion euros a year earlier. Revenue rose 13 percent to
21.2 billion euros.  
 Cash Flow  
 Industrial free cash flow was a positive 300 million euros,
after a negative 1.1 billion euros a year earlier. Daimler
anticipates “significantly positive” cash flow in 2010, even
with additional expenses to reduce fuel burn of its vehicles,
CFO Uebber said.  
 Mercedes-Benz Cars reported Ebit of 806 million euros,
after a loss 1.1 billion euros. Daimler’s trucks unit had a
profit of 130 million euros after a year-earlier loss. The
financial services division earned 119 million euros while
Mercedes-Benz vans had a profit of 64 million euros. Daimler
buses’s Ebit declined 37 percent to 41 million euros.  
 “This very good result for the first quarter shows that we
did our homework in the crisis and are now firmly on track for
success once again,” Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche
said in today’s statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Daimler AG 's Mercedes SLS AMG vehicle  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A model poses next to Daimler AG 's Mercedes SLS AMG vehicle on display during a media event unveiling the company's vehicles for the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, on April 22, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A model poses next to Daimler AG 's Mercedes SLS AMG vehicle on display during a media event unveiling the company's vehicles for the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
