-- Democrats Want Contribution Disclosure Measure Passed by July, Backers Say
-- Jonathan D. Salant
-- 2010-04-27T04:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/democrats-want-contribution-disclosure-measure-passed-by-july-backers-say.html

          
          
             Congressional Democrats trying to
rein in corporate political spending will seek to pass their
legislation by early July, before the 2010 election campaign
heats up, supporters of the effort say.  
 Senator Charles Schumer of New York and Representative
Chris Van Hollen of Maryland plan a bill that responds to a
Supreme Court decision that allows corporations and unions to
spend their own treasuries on federal elections. The legislation
would require nonprofit groups such as the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce to disclose their donors.  
 The provision is designed to prevent companies from
anonymously pouring millions of dollars into ads funded by
nonprofit groups.  
 “Corporations are going to make sure there’s an ad, but
they’re going to make sure it’s not the corporation’s name on
the ad,” said Melanie Sloan, executive director of Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a watchdog group.  
 The Schumer-Van Hollen legislation, which may be introduced
later this week, is designed to mitigate the U.S. Supreme
Court’s Citizens United ruling in January that reversed decades
of earlier decisions and campaign finance laws aimed at reducing
corporate money in campaigns. The court said corporations and
unions could use their own treasuries for ads through Election
Day supporting or opposing federal candidates, as long as their
efforts were independent of the office seekers.  
 Regulated Committees  
 Previously, corporations and unions seeking to support
candidates had to rely on regulated political action committees.  
 The Schumer-Van Hollen bill is “going to be voted on and
signed into law” by Congress’s weeklong recess for the July 4th
holiday “or else it’s not going to have” sufficient impact on
the 2010 elections, said Craig Holman of Washington-based Public
Citizen, which supports stronger campaign finance laws. Holman
has met with congressional staff members drafting the
legislation.  
 Approval of the legislation by early July would allow the
new rules to go into effect before outside groups schedule their
television advertising buys for primaries in August and
September and the general election in November, Holman said.  
 Brian Fallon, a spokesman for Schumer, said the legislation
didn’t have to pass by July 4 in order to affect the November
elections. He said the measure would take effect 30 days after
it was signed into law. Bridgett Frey, a spokeswoman for Van
Hollen, had no immediate comment.  
 Lobbyists’ Advice  
 So far, companies have been holding back on substantial
contributions as they take the advice of their lobbyists and
wait to see what Congress does.  
 “This is all unchartered territory,” said Tim
Peckinpaugh, a partner at K&L Gates LLP in Washington. “I’ve
been counseling them to be careful.”  
 Discussing reasons for prudence, Peckinpaugh said, “I can
see a situation where if a fairly visible company goes after a
member and it’s all disclosed, that might backfire,”.  
 Schumer and Van Hollen first outlined their legislation
Feb. 11. They have delayed introducing it in an attempt to get
Republican backing, supporters said.  
 The only Republican willing to co-sponsor the legislation
so far has been Representative Mike Castle of Delaware, running
for the Senate seat formerly held by Vice President Joe Biden.  
 Holman and Lisa Gilbert, a lobbyist for the Boston-based
U.S. Public Interest Research Group, which also supports
stronger campaign finance laws and has met with Democrats
drafting the legislation, said they expected other Republicans
to support the bill, including some in the Senate to reach the
60 votes needed to overcome delaying tactics.  
 Disclosure Bill  
 “There are quite a few” Republicans likely to vote for
the bill, Gilbert said. “It’s mainly a disclosure bill. For
years, Republicans have said, ‘What we want is disclosure.’”  
 To make the bill easier to pass, it won’t include
provisions requiring corporations to get the approval of
shareholders before spending money on campaigns, Holman said.  
 The House Financial Services Committee is scheduled to vote
today on a separate bill requiring shareholders to approve
corporate political spending.  
 The legislation sponsored by Schumer and Van Hollen would
require the heads of corporations, unions or nonprofit groups to
say in a political ad that they approved of the message. Also,
the names of the top five contributors to an organization
sponsoring the ad would have to be listed as part of the spot,
according to a bill summary.  
 Government Contracts  
 Banned from funding political ads would be companies with
more than $50,000 in government contracts, institutions who have
yet to pay back Troubled Asset Relief Program funds, and
corporations which have least 20 percent of their stock
controlled by a foreign entity or a board majority comprised of
foreign nationals.  
 Chamber President Thomas Donohue has criticized the
legislation, calling it “a thinly veiled attempt to hijack the
political playing field.”  The chamber, the largest U.S.
business lobby, has said it plans to spend $50 million in
support of favored candidates this fall.  
 Obama used his Jan. 27 State of the Union address to
criticize the court ruling, saying it would “open the
floodgates for special interests.” Justice Samuel Alito, part
of the 5-4 majority and a member of the audience in the House
chamber listening to Obama’s speech, mouthed “that’s not true”
in response to the president’s comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        