-- Deutsche Bank Profit Jumps 48%, Beating Estimates
-- Jann Bettinga
-- 2010-04-27T16:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/deutsche-bank-s-profit-jumps-48-beating-estimates-on-investment-banking.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest
bank, reported a 48 percent increase in first-quarter profit as
record earnings at the investment bank outweighed a loss from
asset and wealth management.  
 Net income rose to 1.76 billion euros ($2.35 billion), or
2.66 euros a share, from 1.19 billion euros, or 1.92 euros, in
the year-earlier period, the bank said today. Deutsche Bank fell
5 percent in Frankfurt trading as European stocks tumbled
following credit-rating downgrades of Greece and Portugal.  
 Pretax profit at the investment-banking unit, led by Anshu 
Jain and Michael Cohrs, doubled to 2.6 billion euros, accounting 
for more than 90 percent of overall earnings. While Chief 
Financial Officer Stefan Krause said the second quarter got off 
to a “good start,” he added that the first quarter shouldn’t be
extrapolated to the full year.  
 “This extraordinarily strong result is almost entirely due
to investment banking, which is not sustainable and probably
can’t be repeated this year,” said Olaf Kayser, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Mainz, Germany, who has a
“buy” rating on the stock. “The results of the other
divisions leave something to be desired.”  
 Deutsche Bank dropped 2.76 euros, or 5 percent, to 52.59
euros. The stock has risen 6.4 percent this year, compared with
a 1.9 percent decline in the 52-member Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index. The index fell the most today
since Feb. 4.  
 Fewer Writedowns  
 The bank booked writedowns of 241 million euros in the
quarter, down from 1.5 billion euros of markdowns on bond
insurers and the Cosmopolitan Resort & Casino in Las Vegas a
year earlier. The first quarter also included costs of 120
million euros for the U.K. bank bonus tax.  
 Deutsche Bank’s global markets business, run by Jain, 47,
had trading income from debt and other products of 3.8 billion
euros, compared with the 3 billion-euro estimate of analysts and
almost unchanged from last year. Equity trading revenue rose to
944 million euros, beating estimates.  
 U.S. competitors including Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reported record debt
trading earlier this month. Deutsche Bank has an “overall
positive outlook” for the investment bank, it said today.  
 ‘Vulnerable’ to Debate  
 Pretax profit at the corporate and investment bank, which
includes transaction banking, rose 75 percent to a record 2.71
billion euros on higher sales and trading as well as gains in
debt and equity origination, according to Deutsche Bank.  
 “Over 90 percent of the bank’s profits came from corporate
banking and securities, which shows how vulnerable the bank is
to the debate about the future of investment banking,” Helvea
Ltd. analyst Peter Thorne said in a note to investors today.  
 JPMorgan analyst Kian Abouhossein in London said in a
report that “the quality of results was low,” adding that
Deutsche Bank “is a pure investment bank.”  
 Deutsche Bank’s asset and wealth management unit had a
pretax loss of 5 million euros on costs tied to the integration
of Sal. Oppenheim Group and retirement expenses. That missed the
analysts’ average estimate for a 111 million-euro profit.  
 Earnings at the consumer bank fell 8 percent to 189 million
euros, while profit from transaction banking slumped 48 percent
to 119 million euros, missing analysts’ estimates.  
 “The stable businesses continue to disappoint,” Citigroup
Inc. analysts led by Kinner Lakhani said in a report.  
 Less Risk  
 “We succeeded in generating these outstanding results even
though we have massively scaled down our proprietary trading
activities and dramatically reduced our risk positions since the
outbreak of the crisis,” Chief Executive Officer Josef
Ackermann said in a letter to shareholders.  
 Deutsche Bank hasn’t received a Wells notice, a letter the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sends out when it plans
to pursue a lawsuit. Subpoenas received by the bank that were
mentioned in the company’s first-quarter report today are not
related to “current issues,” CFO Krause said when asked
whether they are connected to the SEC fraud suit against Goldman
Sachs.  
 “We have done an internal review of our transactions,”
Krause said. “We don’t see that we have any similar situation
than the one that is being discussed,” he added, responding to
a question about the SEC-Goldman Sachs case.  
 JPMorgan, Bank of America and Goldman Sachs beat analysts’
estimates for first-quarter earnings, helped by debt trading,
while UBS AG posted the highest pretax profit in almost three
years, in part because of a recovery at its fixed-income unit.
Credit Suisse Group AG last week fell the most in more than two
months in Zurich after missing a gain in debt trading that
helped lift earnings at rivals.  
 Compensation  
 Deutsche Bank set aside 50 percent less money for possible
loan defaults, citing “improved credit conditions.”  
 The investment banking unit’s implied compensation ratio
was an estimated 33 percent, which would be the lowest in the
industry so far, JPMorgan’s Abouhossein wrote today. Deutsche
Bank’s full-year compensation ratio will likely remain at the
same level as the first quarter or slightly rise as the company
pays “competitively,” CFO Krause said on a conference call.  
 Krause, 47, said the bank is sticking with a pledge to
double pretax profit at the operating businesses by 2011 to 10
billion euros from 2009, helped by gains in investment banking
and Asia.  
 Postbank Stake  
 Ackermann, 62, has been seeking to reduce dependence on the
investment bank by making acquisitions. Deutsche Bank completed
the purchase of Sal. Oppenheim, Germany’s biggest independent
private bank, and parts of ABN Amro Bank NV’s commercial lending
activities in the Netherlands this year. It also bought a stake
in Deutsche Postbank AG and has an option to raise the holding.  
 Postbank fell as much as 5.3 percent in Frankfurt trading
after Krause said there is “no hurry” to raise the stake.  
 New rules on over-the-counter derivatives, capital
requirements and a planned levy to finance bank rescues may cut
Deutsche Bank’s net income by 13 percent, Citigroup analyst
Kinner Lakhani wrote in a report on April 20.  
 Deutsche Bank is “fine” on the capital side and has
sufficient capital to comply with expected requirements from
regulators, Krause said today. The introduction of new rules is
likely to be delayed and implemented gradually, though stricter-
than-expected proposals for derivatives oversight have forced
the bank to adjust internal assessments of the impact, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net 
Jann Bettinga in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A Deutsche Bank AG logo  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An employee passes a Deutsche Bank AG logo during a news conference in Frankfurt, on Feb. 4, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An employee passes a Deutsche Bank AG logo during a news conference in Frankfurt, on Feb. 4, 2010. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Simon Maughan, a banking analyst at MF Global Securities, talks about the outlook for Lloyds Banking Group Plc earnings after the Bank of England withdraws its guarantee of mortgage-backed securities.
     Speaking with Bloomberg's Andrea Catherwood in London, Maughan also discusses Deutsche Bank AG's first-quarter results. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
