-- Drugmakers' Health-Care Overhaul Costs $105 Billion, Leerink Estimates
-- Alex Nussbaum
-- 2010-04-27T16:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/drugmakers-health-care-overhaul-costs-105-billion-leerink-estimates.html

          
          
             Drugmakers face $105 billion in
costs over 10 years, $25 billion more than the industry first
estimated, from discounting medicines sold through government
health programs, according to Leerink Swann & Co.  
 The extra costs will come from expanding drug rebates
through Medicaid, the U.S. insurance program for the poor,
Leerink’s John L. Sullivan said today at a Bloomberg conference
in Chicago. Last June, the drug industry’s Washington lobbying
group, PhRMA, put its share of overhaul costs at about $80
billion over a decade.  
 The overhaul, approved by Congress last month, “leaves the
biopharmaceutical industry probably a larger contributor to
health reform than a lot of people understand,” said Sullivan,
a managing director at the health-care focused investment bank.
“Industry is being asked to shoulder a significant amount and
it feels like that which industry will be shouldering is at risk
of rising.”  
 The health-care law, championed by President Barack Obama
and fellow Democrats, expands coverage to 32 million uninsured
Americans over the next decade. The $1 trillion cost to
subsidize their care will be paid through Medicare cuts for
hospitals and increased taxes and fees on drug manufacturers,
insurers and medical-device makers.  
 Drugmakers in June announced a deal with Senate negotiators
to forgo about $80 billion in revenue to help finance the
overhaul, partly to pay for discounting drugs to elderly
Medicare recipients.  
 The $105 billion represents about 3 percent of drugmaker
revenue over a decade, and the industry, through its deal,
probably avoided deeper cuts or more regulations, said Les
Funtleyder, author of “Health-Care Investing” and an analyst
at Miller Tabak & Co. LLC, at the conference.  
 “It could have been worse,” Funtleyder said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        