-- Emaar to Build Second Armani Hotel in Milan After Today's Dubai Opening
-- Zainab Fattah
-- 2010-04-27T11:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/dubai-emaar-working-on-giorgio-armani-s-next-hotel-in-milan-alabbar-says.html

          
          
             Emaar Properties PJSC, which today
opened its first hotel with fashion designer Giorgio Armani in
Dubai, plans to build a second one in Milan, Chairman Mohamed
Alabbar said.  
 The 160-room luxury hotel in the Burj Khalifa, the world’s
tallest building, opened after a delay of almost two months.
Rooms cost as much as 40,000 dirhams ($11,000) a night.  
 Emaar plans to open the Armani hotel in Milan next year and
will follow with a property in the Moroccan resort of Marrakech
in 2012, Alabbar said. In 2005, the United Arab Emirates’
biggest developer secured the right to build at least 10 Armani
hotels and resorts in cities including Paris, New York, Tokyo
and Shanghai.  
 “The Armani hotel will have a positive impact on Emaar’s
earnings for years to come,” Alabbar said at a press conference
with Giorgio Armani in Dubai today.  
 Armani’s first hotel, with brown- and beige-colored
corridors and walls, resembles Emaar’s Address Hotel nearby. The
corridors feature low ceilings and are designed to resemble a
fashion show catwalk, a tour guide told reporters today. The
property will compete with at least three five-star hotels
within walking distance. Rooms at the Armani hotel start at
4,000 dirhams.  
 The hotel, designed by Armani himself, includes eight
restaurants, a spa and a lounge, in addition to chocolate and
flower shops. It also houses “Armani Prive,” a nightclub with
the world’s biggest LCD screen, where a table costs 3,000
dirhams.  
 On April 22, Emaar said first-quarter earnings more than
tripled, helped by its shopping mall and hotel units. Its profit
of 760 million dirhams beat the 336 million-dirham average of
six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Dubai became the world’s worst-performing property market
after home prices dropped by more than 50 percent since mid-2008
as financing dried up.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net 
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        