-- Health Insurers May Meet Medical Cost Mandate Under Obama Health Law Plan
-- Alex Nussbaum
-- 2010-04-27T21:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/health-insurers-can-meet-spending-mandate-by-subtracting-taxes-naic-says.html

          
          
             Health plans led by WellPoint Inc.
and UnitedHealth Group Inc. can subtract taxes and include as
costs “activities that improve health care quality” to meet
mandates in the U.S. health-care overhaul on how much they spend
on medical care, a draft report says.  
 The health-care law signed by President Barack Obama in
March requires some health insurers to spend at least 80 percent
of premium revenue on customers’ medical care. A preliminary
review by state regulators asked to help implement the mandate
found that most companies can meet it, said an April 24 memo
from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.  
 The determination, if true, means the overhaul may not
squeeze insurer profits as much as some investors feared, said
Joshua Raskin, a Barclays Capital analyst in New York, in a note
to clients today. Insurer shares have fallen 12 percent since
the U.S. House approved the law March 21, as measured by the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Managed-Health Index.  
 How the mandate is written “will be one of the most
important events of the year for the managed-care stocks,” said
Raskin. “Several of the comments in the report point to the
potential for a definition that is not as harmful to the
managed-care industry as currently expected.”  
 The health law will mandate insurers spend at least 85
percent of their premium revenue on medical care for large group
plans, and at least 80 percent of revenue for small-group and
individual plans. It requires the federal government to develop
a standard definition of what constitutes medical care, a
determination now left to insurers  
 Early Take  
 The memo, written by Rick Diamond, an actuary with the
Maine Bureau of Insurance, is an early take on the new rule and
will likely change before it is offered to federal regulators to
be turned into a final regulation, said Jeremy Wilkinson, an
association spokesman, in a telephone interview today.  
 “It’s a draft document,” he said. “I think you’ll find a
lot of people going in and editing it.”  
 The state group has until June 1 to deliver its final
recommendations.  
 WellPoint, the largest U.S. insurer by enrollment, fell 64
cents, or 1.1 percent, to $55.92 in composite New York Stock
Exchange trading at 4 p.m. UnitedHealth, the second biggest,
dropped 5 cents to $29.80. WellPoint is based in Indianapolis.
UnitedHealth is in Minnetonka, Minnesota.  
 Since the House passed the overhaul, WellPoint shares have
fallen 13 percent and UnitedHealth has dropped 11 percent.  
 Diamond’s memo said insurance companies will be able to
meet the standards for large- and small-group policies under
either of two different ways that regulators could decide to
calculate medical spending and administrative costs.  
 Government Taxes  
 Meeting the standard will be easier because the law appears
to allow health plans to subtract state and federal taxes they
pay from premiums and to include as costs activities that
improve health care quality, as defined by the association,
Diamond wrote.  
 State insurance commissioners are writing recommendations
for the medical-spending rules before handing them over to the
federal Health and Human Services Department to complete.  
 Overall, UnitedHealth spent 82.3 percent of revenue from
premiums to pay customers’ medical expenses last year, while
WellPoint spent 82.6 percent, according to company filings.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        