-- Lehman Executives Didn't Conceal Potential Barclays Profit, McDade Says
-- Don Jeffrey
-- 2010-04-27T20:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/lehman-executives-didn-t-conceal-potential-barclays-profit-mcdade-says.html

          
          
             Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
former president said company executives negotiating the sale of
its brokerage to Barclays Plc made no attempt to conceal from
their advisers that the British bank might profit from the deal.  
 Herbert “Bart” McDade, who helped negotiate the Barclays
deal and is now a managing member of investment firm River Birch
Capital LLC, was the first witness today in a trial that began
yesterday over whether Barclays should pay as much as $11
billion to Lehman for the alleged “windfall” the bank received
when it bought the brokerage.  
 The fight in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan before
Judge James Peck pits the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, which more
than doubled its profit last year, against Lehman, which wants
money to pay off creditors and brokerage customers. Lehman said
its advisers didn’t know how much money Barclays would make on
the deal, which was sealed in the wake of Lehman’s 2008
bankruptcy, the biggest in U.S. history.  
 McDade said today that Lehman’s lawyers at Weil Gotshal &
Manges LLP and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LP were at meetings
where assets were valued before the sale. That statement is at
odds with allegations by Lehman and its creditors that Barclays
was given a “secret” discount that was never disclosed to
Lehman’s advisers or the court.  
 Discount Discussion  
 McDade said that in negotiating the sale, “we wanted to
move all of our illiquid securities in terms of our challenge in
managing the balance sheet.” He recognized Barclays was better
off not taking them, he said in response to questions from
Barclays’s lawyer, David Boies of New York-based Boies Schiller
& Flexner LLP.  
 “You never had any discussion with anyone at Barclays
about the idea of a discount?” Boies said.  
 “No, I did not,” McDade said to a courtroom audience of
about 36 people, about a dozen more than attended yesterday.  
 McDade was questioned both by Boies and by Lehman lawyer
Robert Gaffey about his statement in court at the time of the
sale that assets and liabilities Barclays assumed were roughly
equal. That was not inconsistent with Barclays making a profit
on the brokerage because assets that were of little value to
bankrupt Lehman, such as its name and employees, might be of
“substantial value” to Barclays, he told Boies.  
 Boies is known for representing the U.S. Justice Department
in a 1998 antitrust case against Microsoft Corp. and 2000
presidential candidate Al Gore in litigation over the Florida
vote recount.  
 Document Order  
 Separately, Peck today ordered Lehman’s creditors and their
advisers to turn over documents sought by Barclays that would
show what they knew about Barclays profit on the deal. The
creditors’ committee has said it was shut out from information
on the deal being struck in 2008.  
 Lehman lawyer Gaffey asked his next witness if it was rare
for a buyer to have a hand in valuing assets it was buying, as
Barclays had done buying the brokerage.  
 “No buyer looks at the books of a seller and says, ‘Fine
with us,” said Steven Berkenfeld, Lehman’s former head in-house
lawyer, now a Barclays managing director. “It’s a negotiation
between buyers and sellers of what the book value is.”  
 Berkenfeld, lean and tanned in a blue suit, contradicted
Gaffey when he said the price Barclays paid for Lehman
securities caused Lehman a $5 billion loss.  
 “It was the markets that caused the loss,” he said. “I
wouldn’t say it was the transaction that caused the loss.”  
 Chaos  
 When Gaffey said Barclays paid less than the values Lehman
had put on its financial assets, Berkenfeld said, “I don’t
think there was a marking going on. We had just filed for
bankruptcy and there was unimaginable chaos.”  
 McDade was called as a witness yesterday by Gaffey, who has
said he will show later in the trial that Barclays got a
discount from Lehman executives who later took jobs at the
British bank. Questioned by Gaffey, McDade at times indicated he
knew Barclays had asked for extra assets as a cushion against
falling markets, and at other times said the purchase of the
brokerage wasn’t supposed to provide any benefit to Barclays.  
 Barclays’ $4 billion reported gain on the deal was never
contemplated when the purchase was being negotiated, McDade
said.  
 Earlier, he had told Gaffey, “There weren’t negotiations
to agree to a haircut,” or discount. “There were negotiations
to try to find a price at which to transact.”  
 Three Suits  
 Barclays, which reported the $4 billion gain on the
brokerage in 2008, has said Lehman is unlawfully trying to
reopen a sales contract approved by the judge.  
 Peck is handling three lawsuits against Barclays, including
one by the Lehman brokerage’s trustee, James Giddens, and one by
creditors.  
 Before it failed, New York-based Lehman used accounting
methods that concealed billions of dollars of risks, according
to a report by bankruptcy examiner Anton Valukas.  
 The brokerage was sold soon after Lehman declared
bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, amid concern the unit faced
liquidation and the global banking system was on the verge of
collapse. Peck said when he approved the Barclays deal that it
would help stabilize financial markets.  
 Barclays was the sole bidder for Lehman’s brokerage.  
 Grab for Billions  
 Lehman, its creditors and the trustee sued Barclays last
November as the markets rebounded, saying the bank made too much
money on the purchase. Giddens wants $6.7 billion back. Barclays
says it is still owed $3 billion, which Giddens is withholding.  
 Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, has
accused Barclays of a “grab for billions in additional
assets.”  
 Barclays paid $1.54 billion for the brokerage and real
estate, also taking on financial assets and liabilities as part
of the purchase.  
 Besides the alleged $5 billion discount Barclays received,
the British bank made another $6 billion of “undisclosed”
profit when it wrote up the value of the brokerage, skimped on
severance and contract payments it had promised to make, and
took more financial assets belonging to Lehman, according to
Gaffey.  
 Barclays infused $45 billion into the firm and took
securities valued by Lehman at $49.7 billion, according to
Barclays’s account of the deal. Some of the promised assets were
never delivered, it has said. Lawyers discussing the deal in
court all use slightly different valuations of the assets and
liabilities.  
 The cases are In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, and James W. Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc., 09-01732,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net  and;
Don Jeffrey in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York at
   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        