-- Melbourne to Surpass Sydney as Australia's Most-Populous City, Report Says
-- Nichola Saminather
-- 2010-04-27T06:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/melbourne-to-surpass-sydney-as-australia-s-most-populous-city-report-says.html

          
          
             Melbourne could overtake Sydney to
become Australia’s largest city by 2037 as its home construction
surpasses the pace of its harbor rival, according to a 
report by economic forecaster BIS Shrapnel.  
 Sydney’s population growth rate will fall to 0.9 percent a
year from a projected 1.1 percent if New South Wales state
doesn’t simplify its planning system to allow more home building,
Aaron Gadiel, chief executive officer at the Urban Taskforce,
which commissioned the report, said in a statement. Melbourne
will see population growth of about 1.3 percent a year, Gadiel
said, swelling the number of people there to 5.7 million by 2036.  
 “Over the past decade, Melbourne has proved far more
capable of accommodating extra people than Sydney,” he said.
“If the recently revised state government Metropolitan Strategy
housing targets for Sydney are delivered, then Sydney’s
population in 2036 would remain greater than that in Melbourne.
However, that’s simply not going to happen without significant
reform of the planning system.”  
 Sydney -- home to the Opera House, Harbour Bridge and Bondi
Beach -- and Melbourne, host to the Australian Open tennis
tournament, share a cultural and sporting rivalry dating back to
colonial times. Melbourne boasts the local head offices of five
of Australia’s 10 biggest companies by market value including
BHP Billiton Ltd. and Telstra Corp., edging out Sydney’s four.  
 Melbourne home prices rose 18.5 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, eclipsing Sydney’s 12.1 percent
advance in the three months to Dec. 31, according to Australian
Property Monitors. The government’s first home-buyer initiatives
pushed demand higher even as the global financial crisis and
government regulations curbed developments.  
 Supply  
 Without reform, the supply of additional homes would reach
17,000 a year, below the minimum 25,000 a year needed for Sydney
to “keep its head above water,” Gadiel, who heads the
representative group for property developers and equity
financiers, said.  
 At this rate, New South Wales’s share of overseas migrants
-- needed to bolster the economy as the population ages -- would
shrink to 25 percent, the report said.  
 The housing shortage and rising prices have already pushed
New South Wales’s portion of immigrants to 30 percent now from
40 percent in the 1990s, according to Jason Anderson, senior
economist at BIS Shrapnel.  
 Victoria state is currently building new homes at double
the rate of New South Wales, the BIS report found.  
 “Sydney is not getting the housing puzzle right at the
moment,” said Ben Phillips, senior economist at the Housing
Industry Association. “Developers and industry groups have been
calling for these changes for years. The problem is you can’t
get one level of government to solve this problem. We need to
get an all-of-government solution for this.”  
 Metropolitan Strategy  
 Sydney’s metropolitan strategy, a plan for the city
released by the state’s government, estimates the city will need
an additional 640,000 new homes by 2031.  
 About 30 percent of these new homes should be built on
newly released land, with the rest added to already built-up, or
infill, areas, the metropolitan strategy says.  
 Yet, New South Wales’ development policies don’t support
this aim, Anderson said on April 15.  
 “In Victoria, for example, you get stamp duty concessions
when buying new apartments, where you only pay it on land, not
the building,” Anderson said. “But you don’t have that in
Sydney. The government has said it wants 70 percent of new
supply from infill development, but it won’t change policy to
reflect that.”  
 New South Wales must “limit bureaucratic and political”
games by ensuring proposals that meet standards receive approval;
make authorities work on stricter timetables; clarify matters to
be considered while assessing developments; and cut development
levies, the BIS Shrapnel report recommends.  
 Affordability  
 The New South Wales government’s focus on infill
development has contributed to making Sydney the second-most
unaffordable city in the annual Demographia International
Housing Affordability Survey, according to the report’s authors.
The report, which compared 272 markets in the U.S., U.K., Canada,
Ireland, New Zealand and Australia in the third quarter of 2009,
ranked Vancouver as the most unaffordable housing market.  
 Residential land release in Sydney fell to 2,000 lots per
year in 2007 from a historic average of 10,000 lots as a result
of the New South Wales government’s high-density policies, the
report said.  
 Sydney home prices will rise 32 percent between 2009 and
2013, BIS Shrapnel estimates.  
 Australia-wide, the gap between how many homes are supplied
and how many are needed increased by 78,900 dwellings in the
year to June, a government report today showed.  
 “The housing supply issue includes a diverse range of
issues including land supply, council approval processes, labor
and capital availability, and taxation,” HIA Chief Executive
Graham Wolfe said in a statement. “Failure to address these
considerable issues will have dire outcomes for the cost of
housing for both those purchasing homes and those who remain in
the rental market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        