-- Emerging Market Bonds Plunge on Greece, Russia Spread Rises Most in Year
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-04-27T22:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/emerging-market-bonds-plunge-on-greece-russia-spread-jumps-most-in-a-year.html

          
          
             Emerging-market bonds plunged the
most in 13 months as credit-rating cuts for Greece and Portugal
added to concern that indebted European nations are moving
closer to default, spurring a selloff in riskier assets.  
 The 1.1 percent retreat in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index of developing-nation debt sent the extra yield investors
demand to own the securities over U.S. Treasuries up 20 basis
points to 2.63 percentage points, the highest since March 22.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of shares dropped 1.5 percent as
of 5 p.m. in New York, the most in six days, while Hungary’s
forint weakened the most against the euro since June 2009.  
 “We could see another wave of forced deleveraging, which
could obviously affect any high-yielding assets, including
emerging-markets debt,” said Luis Costa, an emerging markets
strategist at Citigroup Inc.  
 Standard & Poor’s cut Greece three levels to a junk rating
of BB+ and lowered Portugal two steps to A- as contagion from
the Greek debt crisis spread through the euro region. Today’s
selloff in emerging-market assets follows a return of 24 percent
from the JPMorgan EMBI+ gauge and a 61 percent surge in the MSCI
index during the past year as governments worldwide boosted
spending to lift the global economy out of recession.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Russian debt over
U.S. Treasuries soared 28 basis points to 1.85 percentage
points, the biggest increase since April 2009, according to the
EMBI+ index. Spreads on Argentina’s debt rose 29 basis points
6.49 percentage points, while Bulgaria’s increased 41 basis
points to 2 percentage points.  
 Lira, Rand, Peso  
 The forint weakened 2.7 percent against the euro, the most
since June 2009, while the zloty dropped 1.3 percent. Turkey’s
lira weakened 1.9 percent against the dollar, the most since
November 2009, while an ABN Amro index of Turkey’s two-year
domestic bonds showed yields rose to the highest this year at
9.29 percent. South Africa’s rand depreciated 1.9 percent and
the Mexican peso fell 1.8 percent.  
 Greece’s turmoil is worsening as European Union policy
makers struggle to agree on measures to ease the panic over
swelling budget deficits. Leaders of the 16 euro nations may
hold a summit after the Greek government’s decision last week to
tap a 45 billion-euro ($60 billion) emergency-aid package failed
to reassure investors, a European diplomat said.  
 Investors in Greek bonds may get back between 30 percent
and 50 percent of the value of their holdings should the
government default or restructure its debt, S&P said.  
 “Even though emerging markets are resilient and strongly
positioned macroeconomically, the risk of negative noise and
contagion from Greece, especially for eastern Europe due to its
strong financial and trade relationships with Greece, is a
given,” said Sergey Dergachev, a fund manager in Frankfurt at
Union Investment, which oversees $220 billion, including $6
billion in emerging-market debt. “I don’t think that this is
the start of the fully fledged selloff in EM debt,” though “a
lot will depend on Moody’s action, also further rhetoric from
the IMF and EU and aid package.”  
 Stocks Decline  
 Brazil’s Bovespa stock index fell the most in almost two
months, dropping 3.4 percent, and Mexico’s Bolsa Index fell the
most since June 2009.  
 Investors should buy Latin American equities after the
shares have dropped following the credit downgrades of Greece
and Portugal, Citigroup Inc.  
 Latin American stocks will be “very little” affected in
the long term by the downgrades, Citigroup strategists Geoffrey
Dennis and Jason Press, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  
 “The region’s sound fundamentals are intact,” they wrote.
“While we understand that investors may want to be more
defensive near-term, we would still recommend buying this sell-
off.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        