-- Emerging-Market Stocks Retreat Most in 6 Days on China, Greece Aid Delay
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-04-27T16:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/emerging-market-stocks-decline-on-concern-china-tightening-to-slow-growth.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell the
most in a week as Greece and Portugal’s credit ratings were cut
and concern grew that China’s steps to cool the property market
will curb growth.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 1.7 percent to
1,017.91 at 12:20 p.m. in New York. The Shanghai Composite Index
sank 2.1 percent to a six-month low. Brazil’s Bovespa index
tumbled 2.4 percent, the most since Feb. 5. The main equity
indexes in Poland and the Czech Republic fell. The Hungarian
forint weakened 2 percent per euro, heading for its biggest
decline on a closing basis since June 2009. Brazil’s real fell
1.1 percent against the dollar.  
 Greece had its credit rating cut to junk by Standard and
Poor’s and forecast investors would be paid no more than half
their initial outlay in the event of any restructuring of debt.
Portugal’s rating was reduced two steps by S&P as contagion from
Greece’s debt crisis spreads through the euro region.  
 “This is a very, very aggressive move,” Win Thin, a
senior currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
New York, wrote in an e-mailed note today. “There are still
significant downgrades ahead for the peripheral euro zone.”  
 China Vanke Co. declined to a 13-month low after the
country’s largest property developer said profit decreased 53
percent in the first quarter compared with the three months
ended Dec. 31, and predicted “rapid” house-price gains will
end as the government curbs real-estate loans. Russia’s Micex
Index declined 1.4 percent.  
 China Dependence  
 “Investors are so dependent on China,” said Choo Swee
Kee, who manages about $202 million as chief investment officer
at TA Investment Management Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. Asset price
gains and inflation “may encourage more tightening measures,”
he said.  
 China’s Shanghai index has lost 11 percent this year, the
biggest slump among benchmark indexes in major emerging markets,
as investors including hedge fund manager James Chanos said the
country’s property market is a bubble poised to burst. The MSCI
Index has gained 3 percent this year, following a record 75
percent advance in 2009.  
 China may use capital requirements for developers as a
policy tool to restrain the property market, Ba Shusong, deputy
directory general of the State Council’s Development Research
Center, told Shanghai Securities News in an interview.  
 ‘Herd Behavior’  
 South Korea’s won slid 0.6 percent against the dollar after
the government said the currency’s strength was “excessive.”
Measures will be taken to counter “herd behavior” in the
foreign-exchange market, Kim Ik Joo, director-general at the
Ministry of Strategy and Finance, said by phone today. The
remarks reflect concern the currency’s 21 percent gain over the
past year may erode profits at exporters leading a recovery in
Asia’s fourth-largest economy.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries widened 18 points to 2.61 percentage
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.
The so-called yield spread on bonds of Ukraine swelled 15 basis
points, according to JPMorgan.  
 The Hungarian forint extended declines following the credit
downgrades and on concern the new government may widen the
budget deficit and on speculation the central bank will keep
cutting interest rates after yesterday reducing the benchmark
rate to the lowest since communism ended 20 years ago.  
 Viktor Orban, whose Fidesz party won a constitutional
majority in Sunday’s elections, expects the 2010 budget gap to
exceed the limit of 3.8 percent of gross domestic product
approved by the International Monetary Fund.  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel said yesterday she won’t
release funds to help Greece shore up its finances until the
nation has a “sustainable” plan to reduce its budget deficit.
Greece is likely to default or inflict “significant” losses on
bondholders unless it receives more generous terms on its
planned aid package, according to Willem Buiter, chief economist
at Citigroup Inc.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        