-- Emerson Electric to Press Chloride Shareholders to Support Takeover Bid
-- Will Daley
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/emerson-electric-to-press-chloride-shareholders-to-support-takeover-bid.html

          
          
             Emerson Electric Co. plans to seek
meetings with shareholders of Chloride Group Plc, which rejected
Emerson’s renewed effort to buy the British maker of backup
power equipment, to press the case for a takeover.  
 “It’s not over -- it just started,” Mark Polzin, a
spokesman for St. Louis-based Emerson, said in an interview
yesterday after returning from the U.K., where Chloride had
dismissed a 723-million pound ($1.12 billion) takeover
bid as too low.  
 Emerson will try to persuade Chloride shareholders that a
combination is in their best interest, Polzin said, declining to
speculate whether the offer would be raised. Emerson, with 2009
sales of about $20.9 billion in the fiscal year ending September
2009, makes products including InSinkErator garbage disposals
and power back-up and cooling systems for data centers and
telecommunications networks.  
 Chloride has “better prospects” on its own, the London-
based company said in a statement yesterday as it spurned
Emerson. The 275 pence-a-share offer is 34 percent higher than
the closing price on April 22. Chloride rejected a 696 million-
pound bid from Emerson in June 2008 as too low.  
 “I expect that they will have a disciplined approach to
this, but nonetheless won’t give up,” Steven Winoker, a New
York-based analyst with Sanford Bernstein & Co., said of Emerson
in an interview. “Management is not usually deterrable.”  
 Emerson Chief Executive Officer David Farr said on a
conference call after disclosing the bid that he’s seeking to
buy Chloride to take on rivals Schneider Electric SA and Eaton
Corp. in the market for uninterruptible power-supply gear.
Chloride shares surged the most in more than 20 years as
investors anticipated a higher offer.  
 Shares Rise  
 Chloride yesterday rose 88 pence, or 42 percent, to 297
pence in London, the biggest gain since at least 1988. Emerson
fell 13 cents to $52.61 in New York Stock Exchange trading.  
 The Chloride purchase would be the largest of the 23
acquisitions Emerson has announced in the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average size of the
12 deals for which information is available, including the
Chloride offer, is $327.7 million.  
 “We believe our indicative proposal represents an
attractive premium and compelling value proposition,” Polzin
said.  
 Winoker yesterday identified Schneider, based near Paris,
and Zurich-based ABB Ltd., the largest builder of electricity
networks, as companies that also may take an interest in
Chloride.  Anthime Caprioli, a spokesperson for Schneider, and
ABB spokesman Wolfram Eberhardt declined to comment. Kelly
Jasko, a spokeswoman for Eaton, a Cleveland-based maker of
electrical systems including circuit breakers, also declined to
comment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Daley in New York at   
          
          


  


        