-- Merkel Pressured by Opposition to Make Banks Share Cost of Greek Bailout
-- Tony Czuczka
-- 2010-04-27T17:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/merkel-pressured-by-opposition-to-make-banks-share-cost-of-greek-bailout.html

          
          
             German Chancellor Angela Merkel is
coming under pressure from allied and opposition lawmakers to
compel banks to help bail out Greece, threatening to further
delay aid for the debt-strapped nation.  
 “It’s absolutely essential to bring Greece’s creditor
banks on board to work out how we’re to solve this problem,”
Hans Michelbach, deputy finance spokesman in parliament for
Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc, said today in an interview in Berlin.
“Clearly there are risks in restructuring debt but banks can’t
just shy away from responsibility and expect the European
taxpayer to pick up the tab.”  
 Frank-Walter Steinmeier, a former Social Democratic foreign
minister and now leader of the opposition, said yesterday that
his party’s backing in parliament for aid rests on finding
“ways and means to have creditor banks contribute to solving
the problem of Greece.”  
 Growing German calls for banks to share in the rescue are
undermining market confidence in Merkel’s willingness to help
fund a $60 billion Greek bailout ahead of a state election on
May 9. Greek bonds plunged yesterday on concern that German
reticence could yet unravel a rescue package co-financed by the
euro region and the International Monetary Fund. IMF Director
Dominique Strauss-Kahn and European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet are due to brief lawmakers in Berlin tomorrow.  
 “Why are we paying for the Greeks’ luxury pensions?”
Bild, Germany’s biggest-selling newspaper, said today over its
main front-page story.  
 Germany ‘Fiddles’  
 Merkel, addressing a campaign rally late yesterday in North
Rhine-Westphalia, Germany’s most populous state, said her
government is ready to release funds for Greece only after Prime
Minister George Papandreou’s government agrees to a multi-year
deficit-reduction program with the IMF and ECB.  
 “Greece burns as Germany fiddles,” said Mehernosh
Engineer, a credit strategist with BNP Paribas SA in London,
citing “no firm commitments” by Germany to aid Greece. “The
charade of conditionality continues as markets start to price a
bigger probability of debt restructuring.”  
 European banking stocks posted their biggest drop since
Feb. 4, with the Stoxx 600 index of bank stocks such as Banco
Santander SA and BNP Paribas SA slumping 4.5 percent.  
 Michelbach urged Merkel to call an international conference
with creditors including banks along with the IMF and the
European Union to discuss possible debt restructuring and
extending the repayment periods for Greece.  
 ‘I Understand’  
 “I understand this desire very well to include the banks”
in rescuing Greece, Merkel told reporters in Berlin yesterday.
All the same, state guarantees “can’t be removed from the
picture” because the bailout is about the stability of the
euro, she said.  
 The euro has dropped more than 7 percent against the dollar
this year and fell the most against the yen in more than two
months today as Standard & Poor’s lowered Greece’s debt to junk
and cut the rating of Portugal.  
 Germany has said it will offer Greece about 8.4 billion
euros ($11.2 billion) in loans from the state-owned KfW
development bank backed by government guarantees. The government
will seek “fast-track” parliamentary approval for the aid that
may begin next week once the IMF has finished its review,
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told reporters yesterday.  
 Legislative Timing  
 Merkel’s Cabinet could discuss aid on May 3 and send a
bill to parliament that would reach the upper house by May 7,
becoming law before May 19, Handelsblatt cited Schaeuble as
saying in an interview to be published in tomorrow’s edition.  
 A draft German law circulated to lawmakers today laying out
emergency aid for Greece asks that German loans up to a maximum
of 8.4 billion euros be made available to uphold the stability
of the euro, with quarterly reports to parliament on the
“proper use” of the aid by Greece.  
 Germany, as the biggest contributor to the EU’s 30 billion-
euro rescue package, “has a right to hesitate” in approving
aid, Juergen Koppelin, the senior lawmaker on parliament’s
budget committee for Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partner,
said on Deutschlandfunk radio.  
 ‘Much Tougher’  
 “Everyone has to pay,” he said today. “I’m looking to
banks to come up with ideas. Otherwise the politicians will make
suggestions and those will be much tougher.”  
 Germany’s BDB association of private banks didn’t have any
immediate comment when contacted by phone today.  
 Schaeuble said that restructuring of Greek debt is not a
topic in talks between Greece, the IMF, ECB and the European
Union, and isn’t supported by Merkel’s government, Handelsblatt
reported. Talk of restructuring risks “further destabilizing
the situation,” he said.  
 Only one-third of Germans support Merkel’s conditional
offer of aid to Greece and 57 percent oppose it, a Dimap poll
for Germany’s Die Welt newspaper and French broadcaster France
24 published today showed. The April 15-16 poll of 1,099 people
has a margin of error of as many as 3.1 percentage points.  
 “There is a misconception in Germany that it would be the
taxpayer who has to provide the money” for Greece, Jens
Bastian, an economist at the Athens-based Hellenic Foundation
for European and Foreign Policy, said in an interview in Berlin.
In fact, Germany stands to make about 620 million euros over
three years from the loans, he said.  
 ‘Fed Stories’  
 “The public has been fed stories about Greek profligacy
and the German people think that they are being called on to
save the Greeks so that they can continue to live like that,
which just isn’t true,” Bastian said.  
 Greece has 8.5 billion euros of bonds coming due next month
and the extra yield that investors demand to hold its 10-year
bonds over German bunds jumped 93 basis points to 652 basis
points yesterday. Yields stayed near the highest since at least
1998 today amid mounting concern Greece will ask investors to
accept delayed or reduced payments on its debt.  
 Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said that
May 19, when the bonds must be redeemed, is the “critical
date” by which time talks must be tied up and funds are being
disbursed.  
 “I have no doubt whatsoever that we will reach that
point,” Papaconstantinou said in Athens today, according to an
e-mailed transcript of his remarks.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papandreou, prime minister of Greece, left,, and Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, hold a news conference at the German Chancellory in Berlin in March. Photographer: Jochen Eckel/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
