-- Met Upgrades Genoese Baton Meister Luisi to Backstop Levine
-- Zinta Lundborg
-- 2010-04-27T21:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/met-upgrades-genoese-baton-meister-luisi-to-backstop-levine-interview.html

          
          
             The Metropolitan Opera, faced with
the medical problems of its music director,  James Levine , has
promoted  Fabio Luisi  to principal guest conductor.  
 Luisi, who hails from Genoa, Italy, is currently rehearsing
Alban Berg’s “Lulu,” a Levine favorite, while the American
maestro, who is 66, heals from back surgery.  
 Since presiding over the opening night of the new and much
disliked “Tosca” in September, Levine has conducted just 15
performances.  
 The versatile Luisi, who made his Met debut in 2005, has
conducted “Tosca,” “Elektra,” “Le Nozze di Figaro” and
“Hansel and Gretel” this season.  
 I spoke with Luisi, 51, in the conductor’s dressing room.  
 Lundborg: I hope you like New York!  
 Luisi: Sometimes it can get a bit hectic, but you can
always find places of peace.  
 Lundborg: How’s it going with “Lulu”?  
 Luisi: We had three hours of rehearsal this morning, and
Berg is quite hard stuff. Normally, when I rehearse Schoenberg
or Berg or Webern with an orchestra, after one hour the
concentration goes down. Not with the Met players. They remain
focused until the last minute and this is amazing.  
 ‘Tosca’  
 Lundborg: The new “Tosca” is widely unloved. What do you
think?  
 Luisi: In Europe, we are used to much worse productions. If
I’m just taking over, I don’t have anything to say. If it’s a
new production, before I accept, I want to know who the director
is. I have already refused on some occasions.  
 Lundborg: Aren’t you also becoming general music director
of the  Zurich Opera  in 2012.  
 Luisi: I will take over Zurich as planned. I’ll spend two
or three months a year in New York, but my time at the Met was
already scheduled.  
 Lundborg: So what has changed with your new role?  
 Luisi: I’m not just going to conduct, I’m going to advise
 Peter Gelb  on musical issues and be a partner on everything that
concerns the theater. If I go to a performance, and if something
bothers me, I will tell Peter that we should do it better.  
 Lundborg: You might be very busy! When did you know you
wanted to conduct?  
 Luisi: I was 17 or 18, and I went to Austria to learn how
to do it. I studied with Milan Horvat, who was my only teacher.
He’s over 90 but he still conducts.  
 Lundborg: How is your health? Do you have any back
problems?  
 Luisi: I do yoga every day. I do my exercises and work out.
I’m very careful of my body.  
 Lundborg: How do you relax?  
 Luisi: I go for walks in Central Park and along the Hudson
River to enjoy nature.  
 Lundborg: What do you do after the opera?  
 Luisi: I am usually hungry, so I go home and cook. Last
night I made some pasta with asparagus and a bit of garlic and
shallots.  
 It takes a little time before I can calm down after a
performance.  
 For more information: www.metoperafamily.org/metopera  
 ( Zinta Lundborg  is a writer for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own. This interview was adapted from
a longer conversation.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg in New York 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fabio Luisi conducting the Metropolitan Opera orchestra in New York. Luisi is in rehearsals for the Met's production of "Lulu" by Alban Berg. Source: Metropolitan Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Fabio Luisi  
                       
                         
                           Cory Weaver/Metropolitan Opera via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Fabio Luisi's curtain call at the Metropolitan Opera in New York. Luisi was appointed principal guest conductor of the Metropolitan Opera. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Fabio Luisi's curtain call at the Metropolitan Opera in New York. Luisi was appointed principal guest conductor of the Metropolitan Opera. Photographer: Cory Weaver/Metropolitan Opera via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
