-- EU to Allow State Aid for Airlines Hurt by Icelandic Ash-Cloud Disruption
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-04-27T17:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/eu-to-allow-state-aid-for-airlines-hurt-by-icelandic-ash-cloud-disruption.html

          
          
             European governments will be
allowed to make aid payments to airlines to help compensate for
losses of as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) from the
closure of airports by the Icelandic ash cloud.  
 Measures that amount to aid are permissible to make good
damage from natural disasters and other exceptional occurrences,
European Union Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas said today at
a press conference in Brussels. Governments should also explore
non-aid related steps such as loans and guarantees, he said.  
 “If support from member states takes the form of state-aid
measures, it must be granted on the basis of uniform criteria
established at European level,” Kallas said in a statement.
“It cannot be used to allow unfair assistance to companies
which is not directly related to the crisis.”  
 More than 100,000 flights were canceled across Europe after
the eruption of the Eyjafjallajökull volcano on April 14 spread
an ash plume for thousands of miles. The disruption cost the
region’s air-transport industry, including airlines and
airports, between 1.5 billion euros and 2.5 billion euros,
according to preliminary estimates, Kallas said.  
 Ryanair Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest discount airline,
said in a statement that it welcomes any compensation from
national governments for the “inappropriate closure of European
airspace” following the eruption, but is opposed to state aid.  
 SAS Happy  
 SAS AB, the owner of Scandinavian Airlines and one of the
carriers worst-affected by the ash cloud, welcomed the EU plan.  
 “The commission’s guidelines provide a sound and clear
foundation for the industry’s continued discussions with the
Scandinavian governments when we address the financial
consequences of this natural disaster,” Chief Executive Officer
Mats Jansson said in a statement on the company’s Web site.  
 British Airways Plc spokesman James von der Fecht declined
to comment, as did Deutsche Lufthansa AG spokesman Thomas
Jachnow and Cedric Leurquin at Air France-KLM Group.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        