-- European Shares Plunge as Greece, Portugal Ratings Cut at S&P
-- Daniela Silberstein
-- 2010-04-27T17:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/european-stock-index-futures-asian-shares-decline-bhp-billiton-may-move.html

          
          
             European stocks tumbled the most in
five months as  Standard & Poor’s  slashed its credit ratings for
 Greece  and  Portugal , fueling concern that  Europe ’s most indebted
countries may default.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  retreated as metals
prices fell. Banco Popular Espanol SA declined 6.1 percent after
the Spanish lender said first-quarter profit slipped.  National
Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  led the nation’s banks lower, plunging 10
percent in  Athens .  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 3.1 percent to 261.65, its
biggest decline since Nov. 26. The measure has still climbed 3.1
percent in 2010 as corporate earnings added to signs the economy
is recovering from the worst recession since World War II.  
 “The severity of the situation is growing as investors
fear that any kind of aid package will not be broad enough to
cover Greece, Spain and Portugal,” said Justin Golden, a
strategist at New York-based Macro Risk Advisors LLC, which
advises institutions on equity derivatives. “If there is a run
on Greek or Portuguese banks, we would be very fearful of what
that will do to the Western  European (SXXP)  banking system.”  
 Cut to Junk  
 S&P Ratings Services lowered its ratings on Greek debt
three steps to junk, while Portugal’s was cut two steps as
contagion from Greece’s debt crisis spreads through the euro
region. Credit-default swaps on Greek debt jumped 104 basis
points to a record 814 basis points.  
 Portugal may follow Greece in having its debt downgraded to
junk, according to Ignis Asset Management.  
 German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday she won’t
release funds for Greece until the nation has a “sustainable”
plan to reduce its shortfall.  
 The ratings downgrades for Greece and Portugal provided a
one-two punch for securities markets distracted by the
congressional testimony of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executives
in  Washington . U.S. trading volume slipped while  Fabrice Tourre ,
a managing director at the New York-based firm, read a prepared
statement on his role marketing a collateralized debt
obligation, then surged after the headlines on Greece were
released.  
 National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets except Iceland. The U.K’s FTSE 100 dropped 2.6 percent
as Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc tumbled. Germany’s DAX lost 2.7
percent and France’s CAC 40 tumbled 3.8 percent. Greece’s  ASE
Index (ASE)  plummeted 6 percent after the nation’s bond yields rose.  
 Miners Retreat  
 BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, retreated 4.2
percent to 2,061 pence. Xstrata, the fourth-largest copper
producer, slid 4.7 percent to 1,138.5 pence. Copper fell in
 London  as concern about potential delays in financial aid for
Greece drove investors away from higher-yielding assets.
Aluminum, lead and zinc also dropped.  
 Boliden AB (BOL) , a Swedish copper and zinc producer, declined
9.3 percent to 101.60 kronor as first-quarter profit missed
analyst estimates.  
 Banco Popular Espanol (POP)  declined 6.1 percent to 5.29 euros.
Spain’s third-biggest commercial bank said first-quarter profit
fell 9.2 percent to 204 million euros on lower revenue from
lending.  
 National Bank of Greece  sank 10 percent to 10 euros.  EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  fell 5.4 percent to 5.13 euros. Alpha Bank
SA lost 12 percent to 5.30 euros. Mortgage covered bonds of
Greece’s three biggest lenders were cut or placed on negative
review by Moody’s Investors Service, following “the downgrade
and review for further downgrade of Greece’s sovereign
ratings,” Moody’s said.  
 Yields on Greek two-year notes surged above 15 percent, the
highest since at least 1998, on concern bondholders will be
forced to take losses as the country grapples with one of the
highest debt ratios in the European Union.  
 Negative Outlook  
 Portuguese lender  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  declined 7.6
percent to 67.1 euro cents. With a higher debt burden and a
slower 10-year growth rate than Greece, Western Europe’s poorest
country is being punished by investors as the sovereign debt
crisis spreads. Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its
long-term local and foreign currency sovereign issuer credit
ratings on Portugal to A- from A+. The local and foreign
currency short-term ratings were lowered by S&P to A-2 from A-1.
The outlook is negative, S&P said.  
 Worse Than Lebanon  
 The  risk premium  on Portuguese bonds rose to more than
double the past year’s average this month. Portugal’s credit
default swaps show investors rank its debt as the world’s
eighth-riskiest, worse than for Lebanon and Guatemala.  
 Portuguese spreads, the extra yield that investors demand
to hold its debt rather than German equivalents, jumped to 227
basis points today, the most since at least 1997.  
 Titan Cement Co. SA, Greece’s biggest producer of the
building material, slumped 8.5 percent to 17.85 euros, the
biggest drop this month, as competitor Cemex SAB trimmed its
forecast for cement shipments this year because of weaker
Mexican demand.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest
maker of cement, dropped 5.7 percent to 46 euros.  
 Reckitt Benckiser (RB/)  fell 4.3 percent to 3,497 pence after
sales at the maker of Nurofen painkillers’ European division
fell short of some analysts’ estimates.  
 Software AG (SOW)  slumped 6.9 percent to 88.66 euros after
Germany’s second-largest software maker sold fewer software
licenses than analysts estimated in the first quarter.  
 Iberdrola Renovables SA, the world’s largest manager of
wind parks, rallied 1 percent to 2.895 euros after Spanish
Industry Minister Miguel Sebastian said his government won’t
impose “retroactive” cuts on the price of renewable power.  
 -- With assistance from Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt . Editors: Jason Carey, Andrew Rummer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniela Silberstein in Zurich at 
 dsilberstei2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An undated handout photograph shows BHP Billiton Ltd.'s copper mining operations in Spence, Chile, provided to the media on Feb. 10, 2010. Source: BHP Billiton Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
