-- Euro Slides on Concern Over Greece Aid Plan
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-04-27T11:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/euro-slides-on-concern-over-greece-aid-plan.html

          
          
             The yen and dollar strengthened
versus most of their major counterparts on concern European
governments won’t approve aid for Greece quickly enough to help
it avoid default, deterring demand for higher-yielding assets.  
 The euro dropped versus the dollar as Greek transportation
workers staged a six-hour strike, while German Chancellor Angela
Merkel said yesterday she won’t release funds for Greece until
the nation has a “sustainable” plan to reduce its deficit.
South Korea’s won fell from a 19-month high as the government
said gains in the currency were excessive.  
 “With the delays to the rescue package out of Germany and
the growing chances of some debt restructuring, that’s giving a
boost to the currencies that are perceived as safer, like the
yen,” said Simon Derrick, chief currency strategist at Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. in London.  
 The yen gained 0.8 percent to 124.79 per euro at 7:31 a.m.
in New York, from 125.73 yesterday. The euro slipped 0.5 percent
to $1.3317, from $1.3383. The dollar decreased 0.2 percent to
93.74 yen, from 93.96.  
 There will be no decision on aid for Greece until the
International Monetary Fund works out a plan of cuts with the
government in Athens, Merkel told reporters yesterday in Berlin.
Germany will assist Greece only after it agrees to take
“tough” measures, she said.  
 “I’ve said for weeks that Greece must do its homework
first,” Merkel also said yesterday, drawing applause from an
audience in Soest in North Rhine-Westphalia, where state
elections are scheduled for May 9.  
 ‘Going Lower’  
 A senior member of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union said
he wants Greece’s creditors to help in a financial rescue, the
Handelsblatt newspaper reported, citing an interview. Norbert
Barthle, the party’s budget spokesman, said he wants creditor
banks to accept a restructuring of their investments in Greek
debt as well as a reduction on returns, the newspaper said.  
 Greece’s yields stayed near the highest since at least
1998 today on mounting concern the nation will ask investors to
accept delayed or reduced payments on its debt. Greece has 8.5
billion euros of bonds maturing in May.  
 “Going forward, the euro is going lower, not higher,”
said Derrick, who forecasts a level of about $1.20 in 12 months
and $1.10 by the end of 2011.  
 The yen typically strengthens in times of financial turmoil
because Japan’s trade surplus frees the nation from dependence
on overseas capital. The dollar benefits as the world’s
principal reserve currency.  
 U.S. Recovery  
 The dollar advanced versus the euro on speculation U.S.
reports this week will indicate the nation’s economic recovery
is gathering momentum, supporting the case for the Federal
Reserve to move closer to withdrawing stimulus.  
 The S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index in the U.S. climbed
1.3 percent in February in what would be the first increase
since December 2006, according to the median forecast of 22
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 “The dollar seems to undergoing a once-in-a-decade regime
shift whereby the greenback is becoming positively correlated
with investor sentiment as America’s economy recovers faster
than Europe and Japan,” UBS AG analysts led by Mansoor Mohi-
Uddin in Singapore, wrote in a research report today.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange yesterday showed a
70 percent chance the Fed will raise its benchmark rate by at
least a quarter-percentage point by its December meeting,
compared with 65 percent odds a week ago.  
 Fed Rate View  
 All of the 99 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict
the Federal Open Market Committee will hold its target rate at a
range of zero to 0.25 percent tomorrow.  
 Japan’s currency also gained versus the euro after Nikkei
English News reported, without saying how it obtained the
information, that the central bank may upgrade its fiscal 2011
consumer-price index forecast. BOJ policy makers will release
their semi-annual economic forecasts after their April 30
meeting in Tokyo.  
 “The Nikkei report on a possible upgrade in the BOJ’s
forecasts suggests an improvement in fundamentals,” said Hideki
Amikura, deputy general manager of foreign exchange at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Tokyo. “This is a yen-buying factor.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Yasuhiko Seki in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photograph shows a man holding euro notes of various denominations for a photograph in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
