-- Ex-Rothstein Law Firm Manager Villegas Charged in Florida Ponzi Scheme
-- Carlyn Kolker
-- 2010-04-27T20:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/ex-rothstein-law-firm-manager-villegas-charged-in-florida-ponzi-scheme.html

          
          
             The former chief operating officer
of the defunct Fort Lauderdale, Florida, law firm at the center
of an alleged $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme was charged with money-
laundering conspiracy.  
 Debra Villegas, 42, was accused today of helping Scott W.
Rothstein sell investors discounted stakes in bogus cases that
were supposedly being handled by his firm, Rothstein Rosenfeldt
Adler PA. Villegas was charged by federal authorities in Fort
Lauderdale.  
 “She could have done the right thing and reported
Rothstein’s fraud to law enforcement, but instead she assisted
him in carrying out the scheme,” John V. Gillies, the special
agent in charge of the FBI’s Miami office, said in a statement.  
 Prosecutors asked that Villegas be required to forfeit real
estate in Weston, Florida, a 2009 Maserati and $1.2 billion in
cash -- the total losses in the alleged scheme -- according to
both the charging document and the FBI statement.  
 A lawyer for Villegas, who is scheduled to be arraigned in
federal court in Fort Lauderdale tomorrow, couldn’t be reached
for comment. Villegas was charged in a document known as a
criminal information. Prosecutors typically charge by
information, rather than letting a grand jury issue an
indictment, in cases in which defendants have agreed to
cooperate.  
 Rothstein in January pleaded guilty to two counts of wire
fraud and three conspiracy charges. He used the Ponzi scheme to
keep afloat his law firm, fund a lavish lifestyle and buy
political influence, he admitted. He faces as much as 100 years
in prison at his sentencing June 9.  
 The case is U.S. v. Villegas, 10-60126, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlyn Kolker in New York
at   ckolker@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        