-- Mexico GDP Growth Quickened to Over 4% in First Quarter, Messmacher Says
-- Jens Erik Gould
-- 2010-04-27T23:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/mexico-gdp-growth-quickened-to-over-4-in-first-quarter-messmacher-says.html

          
          
             Mexico’s economy rebounded in the
first quarter, expanding more than 4 percent from a year earlier
after contracting 2.3 percent in the last three months of 2009,
the Finance Ministry’s chief economist said.  
 Consumer demand is reviving even as the export-driven
manufacturing industry bounces back faster than domestic sectors
like services, Miguel Messmacher said today in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. The Finance Ministry will give an
estimate for first-quarter growth April 30, and the statistics
agency will report the official figure May 20.  
 “The economic recovery is stronger than we anticipated,”
Messmacher said. “The fundamentals in Mexico have surprised to
the upside.”  
 Gross domestic product will grow as much as 5 percent this
year, according to the central bank, after Latin America’s
second-largest economy shrank 6.5 percent last year, its worst
slump since 1932. The economy grew 3.4 percent in February from
a year earlier, the national statistics agency reported today.  
 Gross domestic product showed a “rather sluggish
performance” in the first two months of the year given that it
only grew 0.4 percent in February from the previous month and
shrank by 1.1 percent in January from December, Barclays Capital
said in a report today. Barclays had forecast the economy would
grow 4.6 percent in February from a year earlier.  
 Core Inflation  
 Messmacher also said that core inflation, which excludes
some food and energy prices, will continue a “declining
trend.” Overall inflation tends to follow core prices, he
added. Core inflation slowed to an annual pace of 4.4 percent in
March, a two-year low.  
 While annual inflation reached a seven-month high in March,
the central bank may use a quarterly report tomorrow to say the
increase is being driven by one-time effects from taxes and
gasoline costs, said Eduardo Suarez, an emerging-market
strategist at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.  
 Banco de Mexico has kept the benchmark interest rate at 4.5
percent since July and Governor Agustin Carstens said March 21
there’s no need to boost rates “at this stage.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net 
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        