-- Mexico Issues Travel Advisory For Arizona After Passage of Immigration Law
-- Catherine Dodge
-- 2010-04-27T18:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/mexico-issues-travel-advisory-for-arizona-after-changes-in-immigration-law.html

          
          
             Mexicans in Arizona should carry
documentation and “act carefully” after the state passed a law
requiring local police to determine the immigration status of
anyone suspected of being in the country illegally, Mexico’s
Foreign Ministry said.  
 The ministry said the warning is directed toward Mexicans
living, studying or planning to travel to the southwestern U.S.
state, which shares a border with northern Mexico, according to
the e-mailed statement sent today. It comes as members of U.S.
President Barack Obama’s administration said they have concerns
about the new law and may seek to overturn it in court.  
 “There is an adverse political environment for migrant
communities and all Mexican visitors,” Mexico’s ministry said.
“It’s important to act carefully and respect the local laws.”  
 The Arizona law makes it a state crime to be in the U.S.
without proper documentation. The state has an estimated 460,000
residents living there illegally, the seventh highest total in
the country, according to the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security. Opponents say it will lead to discrimination and
racial profiling by law enforcement authorities.  
 Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, who is running for re-
election, signed the bill into law on April 23, saying it would
address problems of violence along the border with Mexico and
crime due to illegal immigration while protecting individual
rights.  
 ‘Murderous Greed’  
 “We cannot sacrifice our safety to the murderous greed of
drug cartels,” Brewer said. “We cannot delay while the
destruction happening south of our international border creeps
its way north.”  
 Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said during
congressional testimony in Washington today that her agency has
“deep concerns” about the law and that it will “detract from
and siphon resources that we need to focus on those in the
country illegally who are committing serious crimes.” U.S.
Attorney General Eric Holder said today that the Justice
Department may go to court to challenge the statue.  
 The law, which goes into effect 90 days after the Arizona
legislative session ends, states that police must investigate if
they have “reasonable suspicion” that someone is undocumented,
according to Gabriel Chin, a professor of Law and Public Policy
at the University of Arizona in Tucson. Police officers may face
lawsuits if they fail to do so, he added.  
 ‘Angered and Saddened’  
 “It’s very hard for me to see how this law can be enforced
without discrimination,” Chin said in a telephone interview
today from Tucson. “It seems to be inevitable.”  
 Mexican President Felipe Calderon said April 26 that his
country’s citizens are “angered and saddened” by the Arizona
law, which he said “doesn’t adequately guarantee respect for
people’s fundamental rights.”  
 About a quarter of Arizona’s 6.6 million residents are of
Hispanic descent, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  
 U.S. Democratic Party leaders said last week that an
overhaul of immigration law could advance through Congress this
year if Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid can pick up enough
support to muscle it through the Senate first, according to
April 22 remarks by Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.  
 Pelosi told reporters that she will find the votes for the
measure in the House -- where Democrats have 254 of 435 seats --
if the Senate can clear it.  
 Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who has
been working with Democrats on an immigration overhaul, said
rushing legislation this year would be a mistake because it
doesn’t have the votes yet to pass.  
 “The worst thing we could do is bring up immigration reform
and have it crash and burn politically,” he told Napolitano.
“If immigration comes up this year, it’s absolutely devastating
to the future of this issue.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        