-- Extended Stay, Aleris, St. Vincent, Lehman, Citadel, Firstgold: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-04-27T12:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/extended-stay-aleris-st-vincent-lehman-citadel-firstgold-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             The creditors’ committee for
Extended Stay Inc. asked the bankruptcy judge on April 23 for
permission to bring lawsuits, which the examiner said may have
merit.  
 In his 436-page report made public on April 8, the examiner
detailed how Extended Stay was acquired in an $8 billion
leveraged buyout in 2007 that the parties “knew or should have
known” would result in saddling the company “with
unserviceable debt for which Extended Stay received nothing of
value.”  
 The examiner, former bankruptcy Judge Ralph R. Mabey, also
said that the LBO left Extended Stay with “unreasonably small
capital” and an inability to “pay their debts as they came
due.”  
 As a result of his factual conclusions, Mabey said Extended
Stay, the operator of more than 680 long-term lodging properties
in 44 states, could file fraudulent transfer claims, though he
noted “significant hurdles” will arise from a defense that
bars recoveries resulting from transfers of securities. Mabey
also said there may be claims for “illegal” dividends and
distributions, breaches of fiduciary duty, and unjust
enrichment.  
 In the committee’s motion, to be argued on May 13 in
bankruptcy court in Delaware, the creditors’ panel recites how
Extended Stay in the LBO took on $1.7 billion in debt above
previously existing obligations. The committee had one month
after the report was filed to seek authority to bring claims on
behalf of Extended Stay. The committee says that the company
itself is “hopelessly conflicted” and has already said it
won’t pursue claims.  
 Mabey also found that the estate doesn’t have any “viable
claims” for events that took place after the LBO was completed
and prior to the bankruptcy filing.  
 Last week the bankruptcy judge gave formal approval for
procedures governing an auction on May 27 to determine who will
provide financing for the reorganization plan. To read about the
auction process and the opening bid of $905 million from
Centerbridge Partners LP and Paulson & Co., click here for the
April 26 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Extended Stay’s Chapter 11 petition in June 2009 listed
assets of $7.1 billion against debt totaling $7.6 billion,
including $4.1 billion in mortgage loans and $3.3 billion in 10
different mezzanine loans.  
 Based in Spartanburg, South Carolina, Extended Stay says
it’s the largest operator of mid-priced extended stay hotels in
the U.S. The properties are almost all managed by non-filed
affiliate HVM LLC.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Updates  
 Las Vegas Monorail Eligible for Chapter 11, Judge Rules  
 Las Vegas Monorail Co. isn’t a municipality and is
therefore eligible for reorganization in Chapter 11, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Bruce A. Markell ruled in a 42-page opinion
yesterday.  
 Markell, in Las Vegas, denied a motion to dismiss the
bankruptcy that was filed by the bond insurer Ambac Assurance
Corp. on the first day of the Chapter 11 case in January. New
York-based Ambac argued unsuccessfully that the monorail is a
governmental instrumentality that could only file bankruptcy
under Chapter 9, designed specifically for municipal
bankruptcies.  
 Had Ambac prevailed, there would have been no bankruptcy
reorganization for the monorail because Nevada state law doesn’t
allow municipalities to file in Chapter 9.  
 Ambac began its argument by pointing out how the monorail
established its status to fund the project with tax-exempt
municipal bonds by signing a certificate saying that it is “an
instrumentality of the state.” Markell ultimately overcame the
characterization in the certificate by looking at several other
factors indicating whether the monorail is a municipal entity.  
 Markell pointed to Nevada law saying that any monorail in
the state is a “person” and not a municipality. The judge also
noted that the monorail has no power of eminent domain, no
taxing power, and no sovereign immunity. Of most importance,
Markell said that the “low level of state control” shows that
the monorail is not a municipality. The bankruptcy judge said
that state control is in the nature of regulation or oversight,
like casinos or taxicabs. He noted that creditors have no
ability to look to the state for payment.  
 Markell did say that Ambac’s argument does have “some
merit.” For other Bloomberg coverage of yesterday’s decision,
click here.  
 The monorail, which began operation in 2004, is a not-for-
profit corporation created to finance and operate the 3.9-mile
driverless transportation system running behind the Las Vegas
Strip to the convention center. The system is in bankruptcy
because revenue was never sufficient to service debt. Markell
said the revenue has been “disappointing.”  
 Ambac insured $451 million in first-tier bonds. In addition
to the $451 million in first-tier debt, the monorail has $149.2
million in second-tier bonds and $48.5 million in subordinated
debt, for a total of almost $650 million.  
 The monorail, which makes seven stops, takes 15 minutes for
the entire trip. The monorail winds behind hotels and casinos on
the east side of the Strip. There were plans for extending the
monorail to the airport.  
 The case is In re Las Vegas Monorail Co., 10-10464, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 Track Owner Magna Entertainment Has Confirmed Plan  
 The reorganization plan for racetrack owner Magna
Entertainment Corp. will be approved, the bankruptcy judge said
yesterday when she agreed to sign a confirmation order.  
 Magna revised the plan in March, just before the judge
approved the disclosure statement, to provide for the existing
owners to keep the Pimlico and Laurel tracks in Maryland in
return for larger payments to creditors.  
 Although Magna arranged auctions to sell the more valuable
tracks, acceptable offers weren’t received although the auctions
were adjourned multiple times to accommodate negotiations.  
 By retaining the two Maryland tracks, the owners will pay
$89 million to unsecured creditors, up from $75 million under
the previous version of the plan where the tracks were to be
sold. Unsecured creditors of the Maryland tracks, owed from $23
million to $25 million, will be paid in full.  
 The owners will also pay the expenses of the Chapter 11
case, including $1.5 million in fees of the creditors’ committee
spent pursuing a fraudulent transfer suit against the owners. A
settlement of the suit laid the foundation for the original
version of the plan in February.  
 Magna’s owners also will retain Santa Anita, Golden Gate
Fields and Gulfstream Park.  
 Thistledown and Lone Star Park are still to be sold, with
the first $20 million from Thistledown going to the owners.
Anything more goes to unsecured creditors.  
 The first $20 million in proceeds from Lone Star Park goes
to creditors, with excess staying with Magna.  
 The court-approved disclosure statement says that unsecured
creditors, including holders of the 8.55 percent and 7.25
percent notes, should recover 42 percent, compared with 39
percent under the prior version of the plan.  
 The plan, settlement and confirmation ended a lawsuit by
the creditors’ committee against the company’s officers and
directors, including Frank Stronach who had been the chief
executive. To read other Bloomberg coverage of the confirmation
hearing, click here.  
 Magna owned 10 tracks at the outset of bankruptcy. In the
Chapter 11 petition in March, it listed assets of $1.05 billion
and $959 million in debt. Liabilities include $500 million in
senior and junior secured financings and $255 million in
subordinated notes. Trade debt is about $10 million, a court
paper said.  
 The case is In re Magna Entertainment Corp., 09-10720, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Creditors and Visteon Line Up against Stock Committee  
 Creditors and shareholders of auto-parts maker Visteon
Corp. are forming battle lines in advance of an April 30 hearing
where stockholders will be asking for an official committee to
represent equity.  
 Having an official committee is significant because Visteon
would pay professional fees for an equity committee’s lawyers
and financial professionals.  
 In response to the motion filed earlier this month by
Cypress Management Master LP, Lenado Capital Advisors LLC and
Goshawk Capital Corp., the company said there is no “credible
evidence” that Visteon is solvent.  
 The official unsecured creditors’ committee said there are
already three ad hoc shareholder groups owning some 20 percent
of the stock. Consequently, the creditors’ panel believes the
stockholders have already shown themselves capable of advocating
their position in bankruptcy court without an official
committee. The secured term loan lenders also oppose having an
additional official committee.  
 Shareholders fired back with arguments of their own, on a
different subject. They contend that incumbent management is
incapable of making dispassionate business decisions because
they are in line for 10 percent of the stock of the reorganized
company under the plan-support agreement also coming to
bankruptcy court for approval.  
 The objecting shareholders, affiliates of Aurelius Capital
Management, say that the shares for managers will be worth from
$148 million to $237 million based on the company’s
“inexplicably low valuation.” To read other Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  
 Visteon said this month that it’s “seriously exploring”
what it called a “toggle” reorganization plan as a substitute
for the plan the company filed on March 15. The toggle plan
would allow unsecured creditors to confirm a plan if noteholders
deliver promised cash. If creditors can’t fund their own plan,
Visteon would have the court confirm the company’s March plan.  
 The March 15 Visteon plan predicts recoveries between 19
percent and 57 percent for unsecured creditors who would have
received nothing on $1.3 billion in claims under the prior
version of the plan filed in December. For details about the
March plan, where secured lenders owed $1.63 billion are to have
85 percent of the stock, click here for the March 16 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to Ford Motor
Co. Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Aleris Has Commitment for $500 Million Exit Loan  
 Aleris International Inc. has a commitment for a $500
million asset-backed loan to kick in when the producer of rolled
and extruded aluminum products emerges from Chapter 11
reorganization sometime after the confirmation hearing currently
scheduled for May 13.  
 Aleris filed a motion on April 23 seeking authority to
enter into the commitment agreement with the lenders and pay
fees. The interest rate is to range between 3 percent and 3.75
percent above the London interbank offered rate.  
 The commitment provides that the loan could be increased by
$200 million under specified circumstances.  
 The hearing to approve the financing commitment is set for
May 11. To read about Aleris’s reorganization plan, click here
for the March 29 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Aleris filed under Chapter 11 in February 2009, listing
assets of $4.2 billion against debt totaling $4 billion,
including $472 million on revolving credit and related
facilities, plus more than $1.1 billion on secured term loans.
In addition, there are $1.1 billion in unsecured notes.  
 The case is In re Aleris International, 09-10478, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 St. Vincent to Sell Staff Housing for $48 Million  
 St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers is beginning the
process of selling real estate associated with its 727-bed acute
care hospital in Manhattan’s Greenwich Village.  
 On May 13 the bankruptcy court will hold a hearing to
approve auction and sale procedures for a residential building
at 555 Avenue of the Americas (6th Avenue) and 15th Street in
Manhattan. The building, commonly known as Staff House,
currently houses 160 young doctors serving their residencies at
St. Vincent.  
 The opening bid of $48 million cash will come from an
affiliate of Taconic Investment Partners LLC.  
 The hospital wants other bids by May 27, followed by a June
4 auction and a hearing on June 17 for approval of the sale.  
 The sale would pay off a $40 million mortgage owing to Sun
Life Assurance Co. of Canada resulting from the hospital’s prior
trip through Chapter 11. Staff House also has a second mortgage
securing $113 million owing to three medical malpractice trusts
created in the prior reorganization. Finally, the building is
subject to a third mortgage owing to General Electric Capital
Corp. on a $270 million term loan and $50 million revolving
credit dating from the end of the prior reorganization.  
 St. Vincent filed again under Chapter 11 on April 14. The
new petition listed assets of $348 million against debt totaling
$1.09 billion. The hospital concluded the prior reorganization
in July 2007 with a Chapter 11 plan at the time claimed to have
“a realistic chance” of paying all creditors in full. The
prior reorganization left the medical center with more than $1
billion in debt.  
 The primary asset sales are yet to come. The main hospital
has 941,000 square feet in 10 buildings.  
 Other secured debts include a $40.3 million mortgage held
by the New York State Dormitory Authority.  
 The not-for-profit hospital is sponsored by the Catholic
Diocese of Brooklyn and the Sisters of Charity. It was founded
in the mid-19th century.  
 When the prior bankruptcy began in July 2005, St. Vincent
had seven operating hospitals. Five were sold.  
 The new case is In re Saint Vincent Catholic Medical
Centers of New York, 10-11963, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The prior case was In re Saint
Vincent Catholic Medical Centers of New York, 05-14945, in the
same court.  
 Accredited Home Has Short Exclusivity Extension  
 Creditors of Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co. objected
to the sixth motion by the former home mortgage originator and
securitizer seeking an extension of the exclusive right to
propose a Chapter 11 plan until Nov. 1.  
 Listening to creditors, the bankruptcy judge on April 21
gave the company an extension of so-called exclusivity until the
next major hearing on May 20, when the court will revisit the
idea of allowing more exclusivity.  
 The May 20 hearing is also the adjourned date for hearings
on a motion by secured lenders’ for conversion of the case to
liquidation in Chapter 7 and a motion by the unsecured
creditors’ committee for authority to sue owner Lone Star Funds.  
 Accredited Home said in late March that discussions on a
Chapter 11 plan were at “impasse.”  
 The indenture trustee for junior subordinated noteholders
already sued the owner Lone Star Funds, contending that
fraudulent representations were made in connection with the $300
million acquisition in 2007.  
 Accredited sold the mortgage servicing business in July
after the Chapter 11 filing in May. Most of the mortgage loans
were sold later. Lone Star also owns Bruno’s Supermarkets LLC
and Bi-Lo LLC, two grocery retailers in Chapter 11.  
 The Chapter 11 petition said assets are less than $50
million while debt exceeds $100 million.  
 The case is In re Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co., 09-
11516, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Pacific Ethanol Plan Set for June 8 Confirmation  
 Four ethanol plants owned by Pacific Ethanol Inc. will be
the subject of a confirmation hearing on June 8 where the
bankruptcy judge will be asked to approve the Chapter 11
reorganization plan.  
 The bankruptcy judge on April 23 approved the disclosure
statement explaining the amended plan. The plan was modified by
giving the parent Pacific Ethanol an option to buy as much as 25
percent of the reorganized company from the secured lenders for
$30 million.  
 Secured lenders are predicted to have a 17 percent to 37
percent recovery. Unsecured creditors, owed $1.4 million, are to
have a 21.4 percent recovery. To read details on the plan, click
here for the April 20 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The ultimate owner of the plants, Pacific Ethanol, isn’t
itself in Chapter 11 nor is the marketing affiliate Kinergy
Marketing LLC. The Sacramento, California-based company wasn’t
operating three plants when the reorganization began in May. One
was returned to service. At full production, annual capacity
would be more than 200 million gallons.  
 At the outset of Chapter 11, debt included $270 million
owing to the secured creditors on a term loan, revolving credit,
construction financing, and other liabilities.  
 The case is Pacific Ethanol Holding Co. LLC, 09-11713, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Citadel Reports 4% Revenue Growth in First Quarter  
 Citadel Broadcasting Corp., a Las Vegas-based owner of 224
radio stations, said that net revenue for the March 31 quarter
was $165 million, a four percent increase from the same quarter
in 2009.  
 Citadel said that stations in “larger metropolitan markets
performed better” than those in smaller markets.  
 Citadel filed a prepackaged Chapter 11 petition in January
and has a May 12 confirmation hearing for approval of the plan.
To read about the plan, click here for the March 16 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 Operating in more than 50 markets, Citadel filed the
original version of the plan in February to carry out an
agreement negotiated before the Chapter 11 filing in December.
The secured lenders and the creditors’ committee support the
plan following a settlement improving treatment of unsecured
creditors.  
 Citadel and subsidiaries listed assets of $1.4 billion
against debt totaling $2.46 billion.  
 The company is the third-largest radio station owner in the
U.S., with 166 FM and 58 AM stations. The 24 stations in large
markets were acquired in a June 2007 merger transaction with The
Walt Disney Co. where Disney shareholders received 57.5 percent
of Citadel’s stock and Disney received $1.35 billion cash.
Citadel also distributes programming to 4,000 stations. The plan
originally was negotiated with holders of 60 percent of the
senior debt.  
 The case is Citadel Broadcasting Corp., 09-17442, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Watch List  
 Bankruptcy Management Late in With Financials  
 Bankruptcy Management Solutions Inc. may be approaching the
time it needs its own bankruptcy consulting services.  
 The Irvine, California-based company didn’t deliver a
financial statement within 105 days of the end of the year, as
the loan agreement requires, according to an April 23 report by
Standard & Poor’s. S&P said BMS is in discussions with the
lenders.  
 S&P also said it’s “concerned” about BMS’ compliance with
financial covenants in loan agreements at the end of the June
quarter. Although S&P maintained the CCC+ corporate rating, it
turned negative on the outlook.  
 BMS’ financial concerns include a portfolio of auction-rate
securities that currently are illiquid.  
 BMS provides paralegals, technical support, software, and
experts for insolvency cases. The services include products for
case administration for individual and corporate bankruptcies
and reorganizations. Consolidated debt is around $905 million,
according to S&P.  
 It was acquired for $384 million in 2006 by Ocwen Financial
Corp.  
 Harrisburg Politicians Discuss Municipal Bankruptcy  
 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania’s capital, will miss a $425,282
interest payment due May 1 on $17 million in bonds issued in
2002 to finance an incinerator operated by the Harrisburg
Authority. The default will come on top of $6 million in debt
service already missed this year.  
 Click here to read Bloomberg coverage of a meeting where
local political leaders heard the pros and cons of a municipal
bankruptcy filing under Chapter 9.  
 The city this year is facing $68 million in debt payments
for the incinerator that converts trash into energy.  
 The bonds are insured by Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.  
 New Filings  
 REIT American Mortgage Files Chapter 11 in New York  
 American Mortgage Acceptance Co., a real estate investment
trust that had $666 million of assets in 2007, filed for
reorganization yesterday in Manhattan after working out
agreement on a Chapter 11 plan with the two remaining secured
creditors, Taberna Preferred Funding I Ltd. and C-III Capital
Partners LLC.  
 The petition listed assets of $6.4 million and debt
totaling $120 million, all unsecured.  
 New York-based AMA invested in commercial and residential
mortgages, financed with repurchase agreements and
collateralized debt obligations.  
 Most of the assets have been sold, leaving $25 million in
debt to Taberna and $93 million to C-III. By late yesterday
afternoon, details about the reorganization plan weren’t on the
court file.  
 AMA’s stock topped out over the last five years at a $19.82
closing high on Nov. 21, 2006.  
 The case is In re American Mortgage Acceptance Co., 10-
12196, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan).  
 Tampa Broker GunnAllen Closes Down, Files Chapter 11  
 Former broker-dealer GunnAllen Financial Inc. filed a
Chapter 11 petition yesterday in its Tampa, Florida, hometown,
saying assets and debts are both less than $50 million.  
 The firm couldn’t comply with capital requirements and
halted operations on April 19, the company said on the Web site.
The statement said that customers’ accounts were “not at risk”
and could be accessed through the clearing broker, Ridge
Clearing.  
 Brokers are ineligible for filing in Chapter 11 so long as
they have “customers.” GunnAllen presumably could file in
Chapter 11 because all customer accounts were transferred to
another broker or the customer accounts were held at the
clearing broker in the first place.  
 The Web site said there would be an “orderly shut-down of
the company.”  
 The case is In re GunnAllen Financial Inc., 10-09635, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Middle District Florida (Tampa).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Lehman Begins $11 Billion Trial Against Barclays  
 The bankruptcy judge began hearing witnesses yesterday in
the trial where Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. contends that
Barclays Plc received $11 billion more in assets than it was
entitled to receive on buying assets one week after the Chapter
11 filing on Sept. 15, 2008. To read Bloomberg coverage of
yesterday’s hearing, click here.  
 Earlier this month the bankruptcy judge denied Barclays’
motion to dismiss the lawsuit begun in November. Lehman contends
the sale “was secretly structured from the outset to give
Barclays an immediate and enormous windfall profit.”  
 Also involved in the trial are the Lehman creditors’
committee and the trustee for the Lehman brokerage subsidiary
which sued Barclays at the same time in separate complaints in
bankruptcy court. The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter
11 in New York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and
the North American investment banking business to Barclays one
week later.  
 The Lehman brokerage operations went into liquidation on
Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage is in the
control of a trustee appointed under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District New York (Manhattan).  
 General Growth Moves Back Hearing on Investor Choice  
 Shopping mall owner General Growth Properties Inc. said
it’s pushing back to May 5 the hearing scheduled for April 29
where the bankruptcy judge would approve procedures for
selecting investors to provide the equity and debt financing
required for implementing a Chapter 11 plan. The company said it
would use the additional time to consider “the full range of
offers, proposals, and commitments.” To read other Bloomberg
coverage, click here. For a rundown on the offers from Simon
Property Group Inc., Brookfield Asset Management Inc. and
others, click here for the April 23 Bloomberg daily bankruptcy
report.  
 General Growth began the largest real estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books
of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and
total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008. It owns
or manages more than 200 shopping-mall properties.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Philadelphia Newspapers Auction Being Held Today  
 Philadelphia Newspapers LLC will hold an auction today to
decide who buys the publisher of the Philadelphia Inquirer and
Philadelphia Daily News. Click here to read Bloomberg coverage
about the potential bidders. One of the cash bids is to come
from secured lenders who were denied the ability to pay for the
business with their liens rather than cash. The newspapers began
the Chapter 11 reorganization in February 2009 in their hometown
after defaulting on a term loan and revolving credit totaling
$296.6 million and on $98.5 million in subordinated notes. The
filing says assets and debt are both less than $500 million.  
 The case in bankruptcy court is In re Philadelphia
Newspapers LLC, 09-11204, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern
District Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 Firstgold Allowing Secured Lenders to Foreclose  
 Firstgold Corp., unable to craft a reorganization plan,
compromised a motion by secured lenders for conversion of the
case to liquidation in Chapter 7 by agreeing to allow the
lenders to foreclose, the company said in a statement. The
lenders, Platinum Long Term Growth and Lakewood Group, are owed
$19.3 million, the statement said. Firstgold, the owner of a
non-operating gold mine near Lovelock, Nevada, filed a Chapter
11 petition on Jan. 27 in Reno, listing assets of $18 million
against debt totaling $27 million. The company was unable to
restart operations. The lenders have liens on most of the
assets, the company said.  
 The case is In re Firstgold Corp., 10-50215, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  
 Downgrade  
 One Communications Lowered to B- by S&P  
 One Communications Corp., a competitive local exchange
carrier, received a downgrade yesterday from Standard & Poor’s
to match the ding issued in December by Moody’s Investors
Service.  
 S&P lowered the corporate peg to B- in part because revenue
in the fourth quarter declined 11 percent. Like Moody’s, S&P
noted that financial covenants in the bank loan tighten
“significantly” in March 2011.  
 S&P also lowered the first-lien loan to CCC+.  
 S&P was influenced in its ratings by litigation where
Verizon Communications Inc. is claiming it was overcharged on
access billing by predecessor Choice Communications for period
April 2003 to September 2005.  
 One Communications is based in Burlington, Massachusetts.  
 Supreme Court News  
 Supreme Court to Decide on Chapter 13 Auto Deductions  
 The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to decide whether an
individual in Chapter 13 bankruptcy may take an auto expense
deduction for an auto owned free and clear. The U.S. courts of
appeal are split 3-1 on the answer.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco ruled in August
that the deduction may not be taken when there is no debt on the
auto. Courts of Appeals in St. Louis, New Orleans and Chicago
ruled the other way. Last week, the Supreme Court decided to
take the case and resolve the split of circuits. The case will
be heard in the term of the Supreme Court to begin in October.  
 The answer to the question affects how much creditors must
be repaid under a Chapter 13 plan.  
 The most recent decision, also in August, came from the 8th
Circuit in St. Louis, where the appeals court said it was
following the literal wording adopted by Congress. The two
judges in the majority said they were not persuaded by contrary
arguments based on “broad statements of legislative intent.”  
 The dissenting judge in the St. Louis case followed the San
Francisco court, which believed that disallowing the expense
deduction for a lien-free auto comported with Congressional
intent “intended ‘to ensure that debtors repay creditors the
maximum they can afford.’”  
 For a discussion of the issue, click here to read this
column from June 17 under the heading “Advance Sheets.”  
 The case in the Supreme Court is Ransom v. MBNA, 09-907,
U.S. Supreme Court.  
 The decision in the 9th Circuit is Ransom v. MBNA America
Bank, NA (In re Ransom), 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San
Francisco). The 8th Circuit ruling going the other way is eCast
Settlement Corp. v. Washburn (In re Washburn), 08-2023, 8th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (St. Louis). The prior circuit court
cases also allowing the deduction are Tate v. Bolen (In re
Tate), 08-60953, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New
Orleans), and Ross-Tousey v. Neary (In re Ross-Tousey), 07-2503,
7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        