-- Fabulous Fab Shows Managers `Oblivious' to E-Mail Peril
-- Katie Hoffmann
-- 2010-04-27T21:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/fabulous-fab-shows-managers-still-oblivious-to-perils-of-e-mail-records.html

          
          
             While Fabrice Tourre may have found
himself fabulous when devising intricate transactions and
presuming he survived their collapses, the e-mail trail he left
behind was a less-than-marvelous repetition of history.  
 E-mails from the Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director are the
center of the case saying the firm misled investors into a
mortgage-linked investment. In one he wrote, “The
whole building is about to collapse anytime now,” according to
the complaint. “Only potential survivor, the fabulous Fab.”  
 His messages left lawyers asking: What was he thinking?  
 “It is shocking how people are oblivious to the fact that
e-mails are a treasure trove for lawyers,” said Jacob Frenkel,
a partner at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Eckerin in Potomac,
Maryland. “It’s a combination of not thinking, ignorance and
arrogance.”  
 Corporate history is filled with instances of employees
sending e-mails -- and coming to regret it.  
 American Home Products Corp., a predecessor of what is now
Pfizer Inc.’s Wyeth unit, was forced to set aside billions to
pay to dieters who suffered heart-valve damage and a fatal lung
disease as a result of taking its diet pills. In some of the
cases, the plaintiffs’ lawyers produced an American Home memo
that they said characterized the company’s callous attitude
toward the health problems.  
 ‘Silly Lung Problem’  
 “Do I have to look forward to spending my waning years
writing checks to fat people worried about a silly lung
problem?” said the e-mail from a low-level American Home
official to one of the company’s executives.  
 Silicon Valley investment banker Frank Quattrone was
charged in 2003 by Federal prosecutors with obstructing justice
after he wrote an e-mail that prosecutors said strongly advised
bankers to destroy underwriting records. He was convicted in
2004 and sentenced to 18 months in prison.  
 “Having been a key witness in a securities litigation case
in south texas (miniscribe) i strongly advise you to follow
these procedures,” Quattrone wrote in the e-mail to his team,
referring to company procedures to discard internal memos and
nonessential records. Miniscribe was a client that had been the
subject of litigation.  
 Two years later, he won his appeal, authorities dropped
both cases and he avoided jail.  
 Two Bear Stearns hedge-fund managers were indicted in 2008,
with the evidence including e-mails that prosecutors said showed
the men touting funds while bemoaning their failure privately.
They were acquitted in 2009.  
 ‘Monstruosities’  
 Tourre, 31, is accused of misleading an investor, ACA
Management LLC, into thinking that a hedge fund planned to
invest in the equity of the deal instead of betting against it.
He is denying the allegations. Pamela Chepiga, his lawyer at
Allen & Overy LLP in New York, didn’t immediately return a call.  
 In a January 2007 e-mail to a friend, he described “all
these complex, highly leveraged exotic trades” that he created
“without necessarily understanding all the implications of
those monstruosities!!!”  
 In a March 7, 2007, e-mail released by the firm, Tourre
described the U.S. subprime mortgage market as “not too
brilliant” and said that “according to Sparks,” an apparent
reference to Daniel Sparks who ran Goldman Sachs’s mortgage
business at the time, “that business is totally dead, and the
poor little subprime borrowers will not last too long!!!”  
 Leaving a Trail  
 E-mails help prosecutors because they show “the intent or
mindset of someone,” said Charles Parker, head of securities
practice at Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell in Houston. Before e-
mails, prosecutors lacked such insights, he said.  
 “Once a judge admits one of these emails into evidence,
the company knows it’s in trouble,” he said. “The jury will
latch onto these things and remember ‘em when it comes time to
deliberate.”  
 Many executives prefer e-mail over a phone call because
it’s faster and easier, said Marc Hirschfeld, founder of
Precision Legal Services, a Washington-based company that helps
law firms gather and produce their clients’ e-mails and
electronic communication. Many don’t realize that an e-mail
leaves a trail, said Hirschfeld, a former litigation attorney.  
 “People use e-mail as they used telephones about 10 or 15
years ago,” he said. “They become more susceptible to saying
things that are inappropriate. They feel that it’s not going to
come up in talk ever again and what they don’t realize, is that
there’s a permanent record.”  
 Stolen E-mails  
 Innocuous e-mails, such as jokes, can prove to be harmful
later on, especially if used as evidence, Hirschfeld said.  
 “That joke can be taken so far out of context, especially
in legal proceedings when lawyers get their hands on it,” he
said. “People also use terms that sound criminal, but they have
no intention of meaning it.”  
 A newer risk is text messages, which are also used
increasingly for business purposes, he said.  
 Mishaps with e-mails aren’t confined to business
executives. Private e-mails from scientists debating climate
change were stolen and posted on the Internet in November. The
e-mails showed researchers musing that they may withhold data
from critics seeking to discredit their work. Skeptics of man’s
contribution to global warming cited the e-mails as evidence of
a conspiracy to manipulate findings about climate change.  
 “You would think that with the high-profile cases of the
past few years, where e-mails have been the source of great
embarrassment, or worse, for high-profile companies and
individuals, by now people would have learned,” Frenkel said.  
 ‘Crap’ Investments  
 At a hearing over the Goldman Sachs case today, Senator
Carl Levin asked what Chief Financial Officer David Viniar felt
when he read e-mails in which the bank’s employees described
mortgage-linked securities as “crap” or “shitty.”  
 “I think that’s very unfortunate to have on e-mail,”
Viniar said, drawing laughter from the audience and the press.  
 “Please don’t take that the wrong way,” Viniar said when
pressed by Levin. “I think that’s very unfortunate for anyone
to have said that in any form.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An e-mail from Fabrice Tourre, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive director, dated Jan. 29, 2007 to Marine Serres is photographed in Washington, D.C., on April 25, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Fabrice Tourre, executive director of Structured Products Group Trading at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., leaves after a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
