-- Fed Bank Presidents Asked to Meet U.S. Lawmakers on Financial Overhaul
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-04-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/fed-bank-presidents-asked-to-meet-u-s-lawmakers-on-financial-overhaul.html

          
          
             The presidents of four Federal
Reserve banks have been invited to meet with members of Congress
this week to discuss legislation to overhaul regulation of the
financial system.  
 Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas, the ranking Republican on
the Joint Economic Committee, sent invitations to Kansas City
Fed President Thomas Hoenig, Philadelphia’s Charles Plosser,
Richmond’s Jeffrey Lacker and the Minneapolis Fed’s Narayana
Kocherlakota to meet with members of Congress.  
 “The general topic would surround issues relating to the
financial reform legislation,” said Jeff Schlagenhauf, Senate
Republican staff director for the Joint Economic Committee, who
sent the invitations on Brownback’s behalf. “The purpose was to
provide an opportunity for an exchange of views and discussion
that came from a non-Washington-New York point of view.”  
 Regional Fed bank presidents are in Washington to attend a
two-day meeting of the policy-making Federal Open Market
Committee that starts today.  
 Hoenig and Lacker are among the Fed presidents who are
attempting to persuade lawmakers not to back a provision in
senate legislation that would end central bank supervision over
banks with less than $50 billion in assets. The Senate bill
would shift supervision of smaller banks to other agencies.  
 “This will leave us ill-equipped for the next crisis,”
Hoenig said this month at an event hosted by the Levy
Economics Institute of Bard College. “I cannot imagine why any
elected official outside of the immediate area we’re in would
support this change,” Hoenig told the New York audience.  
 Fed District  
 Hoenig’s district includes all of Kansas, Nebraska,
Wyoming, Oklahoma and Colorado, as well as parts of Missouri and
New Mexico. The Kansas City Fed oversees no single bank holding
company with assets of more than $50 billion.  
 The four presidents were mentioned as attendees at a
meeting with members of Congress in an e-mail sent to Republican
staff on the House Financial Services Committee and obtained by
Bloomberg News.  
 Schlagenhauf confirmed that the four had been invited, and
said that New York Fed President William Dudley hadn’t been
invited to preserve the non-Washington and non-Wall Street focus
of the meeting. He didn’t say whether any of the other seven
presidents had been invited.  
 Presidents of all 12 Federal Reserve Banks typically come
to Washington to attend FOMC meetings. The committee will
release its policy statement at around 2:15 p.m. tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        