-- Fed `Squeezed' by Strengthening Recovery May Maintain Pledge for Low Rates
-- Vivien Lou Chen
-- 2010-04-27T18:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/fed-squeezed-by-strengthening-recovery-may-maintain-pledge-for-low-rates.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve officials may
indicate the U.S. recovery is strengthening while avoiding any
signal of a change in monetary policy by saying interest rates
will remain near zero “for an extended period.”  
 Economic growth is exceeding analysts’ forecasts on a
rebound in manufacturing and consumer spending. At the same
time, slowing inflation and an unemployment rate persisting
above 9 percent will probably prompt policy makers to affirm
their commitment to record stimulus, economists said.  
 “They’re squeezed between a recovery that is really
clearly gaining momentum and financial markets expecting them to
act, and big question marks about the recovery outside of
2010,” said Paul Ballew, a former Fed economist who’s now a
senior vice president at Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in
Columbus, Ohio.  
 Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues are looking for
the start of a cycle of expanding credit and consumption that
would prompt companies to hire more workers. Yet if unemployment
stays high and credit tight, consumer confidence will flag,
undermining spending. Weak labor markets may also inhibit gains
in compensation, economists said.  
 Policy makers will bring a new set of forecasts to their
meeting scheduled to begin today at around 2 p.m. in Washington.
The Federal Open Market Committee plans to issue a policy
statement at around 2:15 p.m. tomorrow.  
 ‘Ratchet Up’ Rates  
 “There is not pressure on the Fed to ratchet up interest
rates,” said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist for Edward
Jones & Co. in St. Louis, which oversees $500 billion in stocks,
bonds and mutual fund assets. “There is still oversupply in
nearly everything, which is keeping inflation pressures
subdued.”  
 The FOMC’s outlook for inflation and unemployment, which
will be disclosed in meeting minutes in three weeks, will show
how fast policy makers see economic growth using up spare
capacity.  
 “They will acknowledge firming economic growth and should
be revising up their forecast,” said Diane Swonk, chief
economist of Chicago-based Mesirow Financial. “The inflation
measures averaging below their implicit targets, however, is a
real message they will want to get out.”  
 The Fed will keep rates near a record low until a quarter-
point increase at the November meeting, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 47 economists early this
month.  
 Inflation Forecast  
 Policy makers in January forecast inflation in a range of
1.4 to 1.7 percent for 2010, at the bottom of or below their
longer-run preference range of 1.4 percent to 1.7 percent. Their
preferred inflation gauge, the personal consumption expenditures
price index, minus food and energy, declined to a 1.3 percent
annual rate in February from 1.5 percent in January.  
 Consequently, the FOMC will probably affirm in their
statement tomorrow their March 16 description of inflation as
“subdued,” Fed watchers said.
    “I don’t see any grave urgency to change the language” for
an “extended period” of low rates, said Stephen Stanley, chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  
 Unemployment in 2012 will be in a range of 6.6 percent to
7.5 percent, above their longer-run preference range of 5
percent to 5.2 percent, central bankers said in January.  
 It’s “very unusual for the Fed to tighten until the
unemployment rate goes down,” said James Hamilton, an economics
professor at the University of California, San Diego and a
former visiting scholar at the Fed district banks in Richmond,
Atlanta and New York.  
 Best Performance  
 Gross domestic product grew at a 3.3 percent annual pace in
the first quarter, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of an April 30
report from the Commerce Department, following a 5.6 percent
rate in the previous three months.  
 The expansion has helped drive an 8.7 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this year.  
 Economists have raised forecasts from earlier this month as
reports showed consumer spending climbed, inventories rose,
housing rebounded and businesses invested in new equipment. The
median estimate of analysts polled from April 1 to April 8
called for a 3 percent growth rate.  
 “The Fed is going to err on the side of caution,” said
Lindsey Piegza, an economist at FTN Financial in New York.
“Rather than tighten too early, they don’t want to be
responsible for undermining the sustainable recovery.”  
 Biggest Gain  
 Retail sales increased 1.6 percent last month, more than
anticipated and the biggest gain in four months, according to
figures from the Commerce Department. Eleven of 13 major
categories tracked by the government showed increases in sales
last month, led by a 6.7 percent advance at auto dealers.  
 Macy’s Inc., the second-largest U.S. department-store
chain, boosted its annual profit and sales forecasts today.
Sales at stores open at least a year will rise as much as 3.5
percent, Chief Financial Officer Karen Hoguet said at an analyst
meeting in New York. The Cincinnati-based retailer earlier
predicted a gain of 2 percent at most.  
 Consumer spending probably increased at a 3.2 percent
annual rate last quarter, double the 1.6 percent pace of the
previous three months and the biggest gain in three years, this
week’s GDP report is also projected to show.  
 Factory Production  
 Factory production climbed 0.9 percent in March after
rising 0.2 percent the prior month, according to Fed data.
Output of consumer durable goods increased 2 percent, reflecting
gains in automobiles, furniture and electronics. Business-
equipment makers churned out 1.4 percent more products as demand
for computers, communications gear and semiconductors climbed,
showing capital investment is improving.  
 Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, is among companies benefitting from growing exports
and business spending. The Peoria, Illinois-based company
yesterday posted its first earnings increase in seven quarters,
exceeding analysts’ estimates. It also said full-year sales,
profit and economic growth will be higher than executives
previously forecast.  
 “Economic conditions are definitely improving, particularly
in the world’s developing economies,” Chief Executive Officer
James Owens said in the statement. “Industry activity and
orders are significantly higher than last year and are at record
levels in some areas.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, arrives to testify at a Joint Economic Committee hearing in Washington D.C. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Owens, chief executive officer of Caterpillar Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman, Julie Hyman and Zahra Burton about reasons behind the company's raised forecasts, the financing environment and hiring plans for 2010.
     Caterpillar, the world's largest maker of construction equipment, posted its first earnings increase in seven quarters, exceeding analysts’ estimates, as the global economy began to improve. The company said full-year sales, profit and economic growth will be higher than executives previously predicted. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
