-- Feinstein Among Senators Urging Obama Not to Pick Fight Over Court Choice
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/feinstein-among-senators-urging-obama-not-to-pick-fight-over-court-choice.html

          
          
             Senator Dianne Feinstein has some
advice for President Barack Obama about his next Supreme Court
nominee: Don’t pick a fight.  
 “There are people that one can appoint that are respected
by both sides,” said Feinstein, a California Democrat and
member of the Judiciary Committee, which will hold confirmation
hearings. “That’s what I think he ought to look for.”  
 Republicans say they are more likely than Obama’s
Democratic base to be galvanized by a nominee viewed as a
liberal activist. And, Feinstein and some of her Democratic
colleagues say, a partisan battle may divert attention from
other administration goals such as enacting new financial
regulations.  
 Regardless of whom Obama nominates to replace retiring
Justice John Paul Stevens, his choice wouldn’t shift the
ideological balance on the closely divided nine-member court.
Stevens is a leader of the court’s liberal wing on such issues
as individual rights, limits to the death penalty and
affirmative action.  
 Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, said Obama should
be wary of picking someone to energize liberal Democrats because
that also would likely rally a Republican base that easily gets
incensed about “unelected judges making policy.” Among the
Republican faithful no issue resonates more, he said.  
 “As they say, the gun kicks just as hard as it shoots,”
Cornyn said.  
 Kagan, Garland, Wood  
 The White House has declined to comment on possible
contenders. Obama can anticipate varying degrees of support for
the three leading candidates: Solicitor General Elena Kagan and
federal appeals court judges Merrick Garland of the District of
Columbia Circuit and Diane Wood from the Chicago-based 7th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals.  
 Conservative groups say Wood is the most likely to receive
Republican opposition, largely because of her rulings on
abortion. “She stands out as arguably the most activist judge
on the federal courts,” said Curtis Levey, executive director
of the Committee for Justice, a Washington-based group that
supports conservative judicial nominees.  
 Levey cited a 2001 opinion by Wood against abortion clinic
protesters that was overturned by the U.S. Supreme Court two
years later. He also noted her 2002 dissent from a ruling that
upheld an Indiana law requiring women seeking abortions to make
two trips to a doctor -- one to give consent in person and the
second to terminate the pregnancy.  
 Garland, who often sides with the government on criminal
questions, is least likely to spark a confirmation battle, said
Levey. He said Kagan is “probably somewhere in the middle.”  
 ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’  
 Kagan’s opposition, as a Harvard Law School professor and
its dean, to the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy
that prohibits openly gay men and lesbians from serving in the
military may provoke resistance, he said.  
 Top Senate Republicans, including Minority Whip Jon Kyl of
Arizona and Utah Senator Orrin Hatch, predicted that Garland
would likely win overwhelming bipartisan support.  
 “The president is very up to speed on these matters,” Kyl
said in an interview. “He knows what will be easily accepted
and what will be a lot more time-consuming and difficult.”  
 “I don’t think the president will consider the politics as
much as the substance of the nomination; I certainly hope,” Kyl
said. With the midterm congressional elections approaching, he
said, White House political advisers are probably telling Obama,
“the last thing we need just before the election is to rouse
the Republicans’ base and all of those independents who were so
upset about health care.”  
 Packed Agenda  
 Several of Feinstein’s fellow Democrats agree that Obama
should try to avoid a fight because of the Senate’s packed
legislative calendar, including the financial regulatory
overhaul, reauthorizing the “No Child Left Behind” school
program, immigration and climate change.  
 “I hope the White House would keep that in mind, less
controversial rather than more, given all that’s still on the
agenda this year,” said Delaware Senator Tom Carper.  
 Democrats aren’t unanimous in this view. Pennsylvania
Senator Arlen Specter, who switched parties last year and is now
in a tight Democratic primary race for his seat, said Obama
shouldn’t shy away from a political fight.  
 “There has to be a recognition that the Supreme Court
conference room is an ideological battleground,” Specter said.
The president should pick justices “who can carry forward the
ideological battle on his terms.”  
 Senator Dick Durbin, the second-ranking Democrat, predicted
a contentious confirmation, citing widespread Republican
opposition to Obama’s first nominee, Sonya Sotomayor, when she
was confirmed by the Senate last year, 68-31.  
 “The president is going to work hard to find the right
person, but it’s probably going to be a fight anyway,” said
Durbin of Illinois. “John Paul Stevens was a moderate
Republican. If he could find a John Paul Stevens Republican, I
would be perfectly happy. Are there any left?”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 at  llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Dianne Feinstein chairs a hearing of the Senate Intelligence Committee on the confirmation of Leon Panetta, U.S. President Barack Obama's pick to head the Central Intelligence Agency, in Washington, D.C., on Feb. 5, 2009. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
