-- Fonterra Raises N.Z. Milk Price Forecast Citing Deficit in World Markets
-- Gavin Evans
-- 2010-04-27T02:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/fonterra-increases-milk-price-citing-slight-deficit-in-world-markets.html

          
          
             Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.,
the world’s largest dairy exporter, increased its milk price
forecast by 7 percent, citing a “slight supply deficit” in the
global market.  
 The company will likely pay its New Zealand farmers NZ$6.10
($4.40) for each kilogram of milk solids supplied in the year
ending May 31, up from the NZ$5.70 forecast last month, Fonterra
said in a statement. It is the first increase since November and
will lift farm incomes by about NZ$1.7 billion from last year.  
 Fonterra sells about NZ$17 billion of milk, butter and
cheese a year in 140 countries and accounts for almost 40
percent of the global trade in dairy products. Milk powder
prices jumped to a 21-month high at the company’s last auction
on April 6 as demand growth continued and drought in New Zealand
slowed end-of-season production.  
 “The global supply-demand balance for dairy products has
shifted to a slight supply deficit,” Fonterra Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Ferrier said today. “Demand from Middle East,
North Africa and Asian markets continues to grow. On the supply
side, global milk production has continued to slow.”  
 Dairy farming is New Zealand’s biggest export earner,
accounting for about 22 percent of the nation’s overseas trade
receipts in the year ended Feb. 28. The local dollar has gained
3 percent since prices jumped at Fonterra’s last auction and
dipped to 72.01 U.S. cents at 2 p.m. local time, from 72.22
immediately before today’s announcement.  
 Near-Record Output  
 Fonterra, owned by the 10,500 New Zealand farmers who
supply it with milk, collected a record 14.7 billion liters (3.9
billion gallons) of milk last year. It paid them NZ$5.79 billion,
or NZ$4.72 a kilogram, last season.  
 New Zealand’s production this season will likely be similar
to last year, down from the slight increase earlier forecast,
Ferrier said. A tough winter has slowed output in Europe, while
production is also down in the U.S. and Australia, he said.  
 Fonterra last year changed the way it pays its suppliers as
part of a plan to encourage them to invest more in the group. As
well as the raw-milk payments, owners of the company’s shares
also receive dividends on the company’s investment returns.  
 While higher milk prices are increasing costs for the
company’s ingredients unit, distributable profit is likely to be
between 40 and 50 New Zealand cents a share for the year,
Ferrier said, reiterating his previous forecast.  
 Consumer food businesses are showing good increases in
underlying earnings, while lower funding costs are also
improving profitability, he said.  
 Fonterra is planning to hold back between 10 cents and 30
cents a share this year for investment and debt reduction.  
 After allowing for retentions, the company will pay as much
as 30 cents a share in dividends, down from 48 cents last year,
the company said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Evans in Wellington at 
 gavinevans@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        