-- Former Credit Suisse Broker Butler Ordered to Prison by U.S. Magistrate
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-04-27T18:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/former-credit-suisse-broker-butler-ordered-to-prison-by-u-s-magistrate.html

          
          
             Former Credit Suisse Group AG
broker Eric Butler, free while appealing his conviction for
fraudulently selling subprime securities that cost investors
more than $1.1 billion in losses, was ordered to begin serving
his prison sentence.  
 U.S. Magistrate Judge Ramon Reyes revoked Butler’s bail
today in Brooklyn, New York, granting a request by prosecutors
in the office of Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Benton Campbell.  
 “Butler has failed to raise a substantial question of law
or fact” showing that his conviction might be reversed or
overturned for a new trial, or that his sentence may reduced to
exclude imprisonment, Reyes said in a 15-page ruling.  
 U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein sentenced Butler to five
years in prison in January. Butler was found guilty in August of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, securities fraud and
conspiracy to commit wire fraud.  
 Butler can appeal Reyes’s ruling with Weinstein. Unless
Weinstein delays or reverses today’s order, Butler must
surrender to the U.S. Marshal’s office in 30 days, Reyes said.  
 Butler’s lawyer, Steven Molo, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment. Paul
Weinstein, Butler’s trial lawyer, declined to comment.  
 Butler was indicted with Julian Tzolov in 2008. Prosecutors
claimed the men falsely told clients their securities were
backed by federally guaranteed student loans and were a safe
alternative to bank deposits or money-market funds. The products
were actually linked to auction-rate securities and generated
high commissions for the pair, witnesses testified during
Butler’s three-week trial.  
 Tzolov, who was returned to New York from Spain in July
after fleeing prosecution, pleaded guilty that month to
conspiracy, wire fraud and securities fraud. He testified as a
prosecution witness against Butler, his former partner.  
 The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        