-- Fukuoka Financial Chief Masaaki Tani Says a Stock Sale Is `Unnecessary'
-- Shingo Kawamoto
-- 2010-04-27T02:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/fukuoka-financial-chief-masaaki-tani-says-a-stock-sale-is-unnecessary-.html

          
          
             Fukuoka Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s second-largest regional bank by assets, will rely on
higher earnings rather than stock sales to bolster capital in
the next three years, said President Masaaki Tani.  
 Fukuoka Financial will increase mortgage lending and offer
more loans for corporate restructuring to boost profit, Tani
said in an interview yesterday at the bank’s headquarters in
Fukuoka, on the southern island of Kyushu.  
 The acquisition of smaller Kyushu rivals Kumamoto Family
Bank Ltd. and Shinwa Bank Ltd. in 2007 weakened the company’s
capital position. Morgan Stanley banking analyst Graeme Knowd
said in a report this month that Fukuoka Financial’s
“relatively lean capital” increased concern it may be forced
to sell shares to bolster its balance sheet.  
 “There is a lot of talk in the brokerage world that we’ll
sell shares,” said Tani, 67. “Our basic policy is to enhance
capital by boosting retained earnings; an equity offering will
probably be unnecessary in the next three years.”  
 The bank had a Tier 1 ratio, a key indicator of its ability
to absorb losses, of 6.2 percent as of Dec. 31. That compared
with 9.7 percent at Bank of Yokohama Ltd., Japan’s largest
regional lender, and 13.9 percent at Shizuoka Bank Ltd.  
 Fukuoka Financial’s shares have gained 30 percent this year,
rebounding from a 16 percent decline in 2009, after it wrote
down bad loans from Kumamoto Family and Shinwa. Non-performing
loans accounted for 15.7 percent of all advances at Shinwa in
March 2008.  
 ‘Top Pick’  
 Bank of Fukuoka Ltd. created Fukuoka Financial as a holding
company to house itself and Kumamoto Family and Shinwa when it
took over the smaller companies. The three banks still operate
branches under their own names.  
 While Fukuoka Financial shares have outperformed most
Japanese regional lenders this year, they trade at a discount by
some measures. The stock is valued at 0.65 times book value,
compared with 0.97 times for Bank of Yokohama, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Fukuoka Financial is our top pick among regional banks as
we believe the discount should start to narrow as capital is
accumulated and Kumamoto Family and Shinwa start to contribute
to earnings rather than drag,” Knowd said in a report dated
April 14.  
 Tani said that while he couldn’t completely rule out a
share sale as global regulators mull stricter capital rules, it
is currently “inconceivable.”  
 Banks should increase the quality of capital they hold by
the end of 2012, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said
in a report on bank capital and liquidity published Dec. 17.  
 ‘Just an Excuse’  
 Fukuoka Financial will focus on meeting financial targets,
including increasing net income by 43 percent to 40 billion yen
($426 million) in three years, Tani said. It will boost loans by
about 1 trillion yen to 9.1 trillion yen during the same period,
according to Tani.  
 Kumamoto Family and Shinwa have room to grow in the
mortgage market, Tani said. He added that the stagnant Japanese
economy presents an opportunity to increase lending by providing
credit to companies that must restructure to survive.  
 “Some people think it won’t be possible to boost lending
in the current economic environment,” said Tani. “To say you
can’t increase lending because the economy isn’t good is just an
excuse.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Masaaki Tani. president of Fukuoka Financial Group  
                       
                         
                           Shingo Kawamoto/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Masaaki Tani, president of Fukuoka Financial Group Inc., speaks during an interview at the holdings company's headquarters in Fukuoka City, Japan, April 26, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Masaaki Tani, president of Fukuoka Financial Group Inc., speaks during an interview at the holdings company's headquarters in Fukuoka City, Japan, April 26, 2010. Photographer: Shingo Kawamoto/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
