-- Gates, Barak Say Weapons Provided to Hezbollah by Syria Threaten Stability
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-04-27T20:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/gates-barak-say-weapons-provided-to-hezbollah-by-syria-threaten-stability.html

          
          
             U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates
and his Israeli counterpart, Ehud Barak, said rockets and
missiles that Syria provides the Hezbollah militia in Lebanon
pose a threat to stability in Lebanon and the region.  
 “We do not intend to provoke any kind of major collision
in Lebanon or with Syria, but are watching closely these
developments,” Israeli Defense Minister Barak said at a joint
press conference after meeting with Gates at the Pentagon today.
Israel fought a month-long war with Hezbollah in 2006.  
 Barak ducked a question of whether Syria specifically
provided Scud missiles, a rocket with a range of hundreds of
miles. Israeli President Shimon Peres said on April 13 that
Syria was passing “sophisticated Scud missiles to Hezbollah
that threaten Israel.” Syria denied the allegation.  
 Gates also didn’t specify the types of weapons, saying Iran
and Syria are supplying arms of “ever-increasing capability.”
The U.S. is monitoring the situation, he said.  
 “We are at a point now where Hezbollah has far more
rockets and missiles than most governments in the world,” Gates
said. “This is obviously destabilizing for the whole region.”  
 The U.S. and Israel consider the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah a
terrorist organization and are increasingly concerned with the
buildup in southern Lebanon, apparently outside the control of
Lebanon’s official military. The Pentagon said in a report to
Congress last week that Iran has helped Hezbollah re-arm itself
to levels beyond those that preceded the 2006 war with Israel.  
 Ambassador in Question  
 The allegations complicate the Obama administration’s
efforts to place an ambassador in Syria for the first time in
five years as the U.S. seeks to lure that nation away from
Iranian influence.  
 Iran also is training Hezbollah fighters in camps in
Lebanon and provides as much as $200 million a year in funding,
according to the report to Congress last week on Iran’s military
power.  
 On efforts to stop Iran from developing a nuclear bomb,
Barak confirmed previous statements by Israeli officials that
the Obama administration’s efforts at persuasion with diplomacy
and sanctions should have a time limit. Iran says it’s enriching
uranium for peaceful use to generate energy.  
 “The United States is doing the right thing,” Barak said.
“It’s the only power that can mobilize so many members of the
international community” for effective sanctions, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        