-- Gazprom, Eni Plan to Sell Equal South Stream Gas Pipeline Stakes to EDF
-- Anna Shiryaevskaya
-- 2010-04-27T14:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/gazprom-eni-will-each-sell-10-stake-in-south-stream-to-edf-putin-says.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom and Eni SpA will cede
equal stakes in the South Stream project to Electricite de
France SA, as Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin adds
partners to the planned gas pipeline to Europe.  
 The French utility will get 10 percent from each of the two
companies, Putin told reporters today in Ukraine, which the
pipeline is designed to bypass.  
 “We will act in agreement,” Putin said. Gazprom, Russia’s
gas export monopoly, and Eni, Italy’s biggest energy company,
now each hold 50 percent of South Stream.  
 South Stream, which was conceived as Gazprom and Ukraine
battled over gas pricing in the past four years, would run 900
kilometers (560 miles) under the Black Sea to the Balkans, and
on to south and central Europe. Austria became the seventh
country to join South Stream during Putin’s visit to Vienna
three days ago.  
 EDF will sign for the stake in St. Petersburg this June,
Putin said yesterday after meeting with Italian Premier Silvio
Berlusconi near Milan.  
 Russia hammered out a gas agreement with Ukraine’s new
government last week, guaranteeing the transit of Russian gas to
Europe for 10 years, Putin said in Italy. The deal, which
extends Russia’s rights to a naval base in Ukraine until 2042 in
exchange for a discounted gas price, doesn’t eliminate the need
for South Stream, he said.  
 Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych, who took office two
months ago, has lobbied Russia to drop the project. Gazprom
decreased supply to Ukraine amid price disputes, twice leading
to shortages in Europe, during the five-year term of
Yanukovych’s predecessor, Viktor Yushchenko, who had come to
power promising closer ties with Europe and the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        