-- GE Courts Congress With Offer to Absorb Cost Overruns on 150 JSF Engines
-- Gopal Ratnam
-- 2010-04-27T20:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/ge-tries-to-keep-backup-f-35-engine-alive-by-promising-1-billion-savings.html

          
          
             General Electric Co. broadened an
offer to build backup engines at a fixed price for the U.S.
military’s Joint Strike Fighter, yielding initial savings of as
much as $1 billion, as it urges Congress to keep financing a
program the Pentagon recommended scrapping.  
 The proposal from GE and partner Rolls-Royce Group Plc to
absorb cost overruns on the first 150 backup engines for the F-
35 Joint Strike Fighter expands a September offer to build 100
for a fixed price. Defense Secretary Robert Gates had decided to
exclude funding for the engine from the Pentagon’s 2011 budget.  
 GE said the offer would create an engine competition with
prime contractor Pratt & Whitney that would save the government
$1 billion over the five years starting in 2012 and $20 billion
over the life of the program. Pratt is a unit of United
Technologies Corp.  
 “Instead of taxpayers shouldering the risk of production
cost overruns, those risks fall squarely on the shoulders of
contractors,” John Rice, the GE vice chairman who oversees the
engine unit, said in a conference call with reporters.  
 GE has briefed the F-35 Joint Program Office and members of
Congress on its offer and will seek to meet with Department of
Defense officials beginning today to make the case for the
second engine, David Joyce, GE Aviation’s chief executive
officer, said on the call.  
 Pratt & Whitney said in a statement the fixed offer was
belated and a distraction.  
 Pratt & Whitney Response  
 “The DoD and two presidential administrations have said an
alternate engine for the F-35 is not wanted or needed,” Pratt &
Whitney spokeswoman Erin Dick said in an e-mailed statement.
“There is no military requirement for it, which is why they
have requested for the last five years that Congress stop
funding it.”  
 The F-35 jet fighter, the Pentagon’s most expensive program
at an estimated cost of about $328 billion, is designed to
replace all other fighter aircraft, including current F-16 and
F-15 models. The aircraft is four years behind schedule,
according to Pentagon documents and recent data.  
 “Here’s an opportunity to mitigate the cost risk for one
of the major elements of the program,” Russell Sparks, vice
president of military strategy for GE’s aviation unit, said in
an interview.  
 Congress has repeatedly restored funding for the GE engine
in what’s become an annual fight with the Pentagon, saying
competition will lower long-term costs and enhance safety.  
 Controlling Spending  
 As part of Gates’ and President Barack Obama’s plan to rein
in defense spending, Congress cut the F-22 fighter, powered
solely by Pratt & Whitney engines, and the replacement contract
for the Presidential helicopter last year.  
 With its latest offer, GE wants to persuade more members of
Congress to keep the backup-engine development program, which is
70 percent complete. Cost-overruns on engine-development
projects for the military typically are paid for the by the U.S.
government, and ultimately, taxpayers.  
 Losing funding for development would mean GE eventually
would cede the fighter-engine market to Pratt & Whitney as
militaries retire existing models over the next decade.  
 Jeff Immelt and John Rose, chief executive officers of GE
and London-based Rolls-Royce, approved the latest proposal, said
Rick Kennedy, a spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE.  
 U.S. Government Accountability Office analyst Michael
Sullivan, who follows the F-35 program, has estimated the cost
of the engine from prime contractor Pratt & Whitney will climb
50 percent from original assumptions to $7.3 billion. Pratt &
Whitney today repeated that it has contained cost overruns.  
 Cost Overruns  
 The alternate engine has encountered its own delays amid
funding disputes and may cost an additional $1.6 billion if its
development is completed by 2016, the GAO estimates.  
 GE is seeking $485 million in this year’s 2011 budget for
development and estimates it will take $1.8 billion to complete,
less than the GAO’s $2.9 billion in total, executives said on
the call today. The company has set a goal of completing
development by 2013 at an estimated cost of $1 billion and has
disagreed with Defense Department estimates.  
 GE and Rolls-Royce based their $1 billon cost savings
estimate on figures from the Pentagon’s Cost Assessment and
Program Evaluation Office, or CAPE, Sparks said. CAPE provides
independent cost estimates for all major programs and reports
directly to Gates.  
 Half the savings come from what Sparks says is a better
cost projection and half from an assumption that Pratt & Whitney
would have to reduce its price to compete.  
 GE decreased 60 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $18.70 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. United Technologies
dropped $2.08, or 2.7 percent, to $74.32. Both fell amid a
decline in the broader markets as Greece’s credit rating was cut
to junk status by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        