-- Germany's DAX Index Falls Most in 5 Months; Deutsche Bank, Software Fall
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-04-27T16:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/german-stocks-decline-for-first-time-in-three-days-deutsche-bank-retreats.html

          
          
             German stocks plunged, sending the
DAX Index down the most in five months, amid concern Greece’s
debt crisis will spread to other countries in Europe.  
 Deutsche Bank AG sank 5 percent after its asset and wealth
management unit reported an unexpected loss. ThyssenKrupp AG and
Salzgitter AG, Germany’s biggest steelmakers, followed metal
prices lower. Software AG tumbled the most since January after
software-license sales missed analysts’ estimates.  
 The benchmark DAX lost 2.7 percent to 6,159.51 in
Frankfurt, the biggest drop since November. The measure has
still climbed 3.4 percent in 2010 amid signs the economic
recovery is strengthening. The broader HDAX Index fell 2.8
percent today.  
 “Major sovereign problems as far as the eye can see have
started to materialize in the euro zone,” Deutsche Bank’s
Frankfurt-based strategists Ingo Schmitz and Andreas Neubauer
wrote in a report dated yesterday. “Equities seem to have
decoupled from these problems to a large degree for now, but if
the problems come back into focus they could trigger a
significant DAX decline in the next months.”  
 S&P Ratings Services lowered its ratings on Greek debt to
junk, while Portugal’s was cut two steps as contagion from
Greece’s debt crisis spreads through the euro region. Credit-
default swaps on Greek debt jumped 104 basis points to a record
814 basis points.  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel hit the campaign trail with
a warning to Greece and the rest of the euro region that a
bailout of the debt-stricken nation isn’t a done deal.  
 ‘Homework First’  
 “I’ve said for weeks that Greece must do its homework
first,” Merkel said late yesterday, drawing applause from an
audience in the town of Soest in North Rhine-Westphalia, where
state elections are due on May 9. She said that while Germany is
prepared to release funds for debt-stricken Greece, “first I
want to see the program.”  
 Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender, lost 5 percent to
52.59 euros, erasing yesterday’s 2.9 percent gain. The bank’s
asset and wealth management unit had a pretax loss of 5 million
euros ($6.7 million) on costs tied to the integration of Sal.
Oppenheim Group and retirement expenses. That missed analysts’
estimate for a 111 million-euro profit.  
 Separately, Deutsche Bank said it received subpoenas and
requests for information from certain regulators and government
entities. Only one of six lawsuits related to asset-backed
securities is new, Deutsche Bank spokesman Ronald Weichert said.  
 Postbank Drops  
 Deutsche Postbank AG slumped 5.1 percent to 25.87 euros as
Deutsche Bank Chief Financial Officer Stefan Krause said the
lender is in “no hurry” to increase its stake in Postbank.  
 Commerzbank AG lost 2.8 percent to 6.10 euros. The U.K.
Financial Services Authority fined the bank’s London unit
595,000 pounds ($914,000) for failures to properly report
transactions over a two-year period.  
 ThyssenKrupp lost 2.1 percent to 24.80 euros, while
competitor Salzgitter retreated 2.4 percent to 62.88 euros.
Aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc all fell on the
London Metal Exchange today.  
 HeidelbergCement AG slumped 5.7 percent to 46 euros, the
biggest drop in three months. The world’s third-largest maker of
cement dropped as competitor Cemex SAB trimmed its forecast for
shipments this year because of weaker Mexican demand.  
 Software Sales  
 Software AG sank 6.9 percent to 88.66 euros as Germany’s
second-largest software maker said it sold fewer licenses than
analysts estimated in the first quarter.  
 “License sales came in lower than expected due to regional
weakness in sales” said Thomas Becker, an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, who predicted they would reach 64
million euros.  
 Daimler AG, the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury
cars, slid 3.9 percent to 37.93 euros, even after raising its
earnings forecast for the year. Before today, the shares had
gained 8.7 percent since April 19, when the company boosted the
outlook for its Mercedes Cars and heavy truck units.  
 Preferred shares of Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest
carmaker, dropped 3.4 percent to 71.04 euros.  
 Infineon Technologies AG, Europe’s second-biggest
chipmaker, slid 5.1 percent to 5.26 euros as AlphaValue
downgraded the stock to “reduce” from “add.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        