-- GM to Invest $890 Million in Factories, Including St. Catharines Plant
-- Katie Merx
-- 2010-04-27T14:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/gm-to-invest-890-million-in-factories-including-st-catharines-plant.html

          
          
             General Motors Co., the largest
U.S. automaker, plans to invest $890 million to upgrade five
North American factories to build more efficient aluminum
engines for cars and trucks.  
 GM’s investment in the plants will add or preserve 1,600
jobs and boost production of more efficient engines with all-
aluminum blocks that are lighter and use less fuel, the Detroit-
based company said today.  
 “There is no doubt that a major differentiator going
forward will be powertrain technology,” Michael Robinet, vice
president at research firm CSM Worldwide in Northville,
Michigan, said yesterday when people familiar with the matter
described the plans. “Heavy investment and improved fuel
economy will be on every company’s agenda.”  
 GM is boosting its spending on more fuel-efficient engines
as governments worldwide push for reduced pollutant emissions
and as rising fuel prices spur consumer demand for vehicles with
better gasoline mileage.  
 The investments will be at facilities in Tonawanda, New
York; Bay City, Michigan; Bedford, Indiana; Defiance, Ohio; and
St. Catharines, Ontario, the company said. The largest
investment will go to the Tonawanda plant, which will get $400
million and add about 710 jobs.  
 Chief Executive Officer Ed Whitacre is trying to return GM
to profitability as early as this year, a step the company has
said is needed before it can make an initial public offering of
shares. The U.S. government owns a 61 percent stake in GM after
aiding the automaker’s July 2009 exit from bankruptcy.  
 Since GM emerged from bankruptcy, the company has invested
$2.3 billion in 22 plants.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Welch n Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net 
Katie Merx in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 kmerx@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        