-- Goldman Armed Salespeople to Dump Assets, E-mails Show
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-04-28T01:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/goldman-sachs-armed-salespeople-to-dump-mortgage-assets-e-mails-show.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc., seeking
to reduce assets tied to the declining U.S. housing market,
urged its sales force in 2006 and 2007 to sell those products to
clients, newly disclosed internal e-mails show.  
 The e-mails, including communications from Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd Blankfein, show that employees discussed how to
“arm” salespeople to shed bonds the firm found too risky to
hold. The e-mails were released yesterday by Senator Carl Levin
in connection with a hearing where current and former managers
testified about the firm’s role in the financial crisis.  
 Levin, the Michigan Democrat who heads the Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, grilled the executives
about the firm’s bets against the housing market and its
disclosure to clients.  
 In one of the e-mails, Blankfein asked whether employees
were doing enough to sell bonds backed by home loans including
subprime mortgages.  
 “Could/should we have cleaned up these books before and
are we doing enough right now to sell off cats and dogs in other
books throughout the division,” Blankfein, 55, wrote in an e-
mail dated Feb. 11, 2007.  
 Questioned about the e-mail at yesterday’s hearing,
Blankfein told senators that his comment didn’t represent an
opinion of the bonds.  
 “When I use the expression ‘cats and dogs’ I mean
miscellaneous stuff,” he said. “This is part of my normal
point about aged inventory. Part of the discipline of our
business is to manage risk and sell inventory.”  
 Clients’ Questions  
 The e-mails show that as early as the fall of 2006 clients
were questioning products tied to the mortgage market. On Oct.
19, 2006, Mitchell Resnick sent an e-mail to two colleagues
asking whether the firm had material about “how great” BBB
bonds tied to home loans were. BBB is a credit rating from
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings that indicates an
asset is two levels above junk.  
 “A common response I am hearing” from potential investors
is “a concern about the housing market and BBB in particular,”
Resnick wrote. “We need to arm sales with a bit more. Do we
have anything?”  
 Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar convened
a meeting of mortgage traders and risk managers on Dec. 14,
2006, according to a document prepared by the firm that the
Senate panel released yesterday.  
 ‘Net Long’  
 At the time, Goldman Sachs had a “net long exposure” to
the subprime-mortgage market, meaning the bank was betting the
market would continue to rise. At the meeting, executives agreed
that the firm should “reduce its overall exposure to the
subprime mortgage market,” the document said.  
 Goldman Sachs’s Stacey Bash-Polley sent an e-mail to
colleagues six days later with the subject line “Mezz Risk,” a
reference to lower tranches of collateralized debt obligations
linked to mortgages. Investors in mezzanine tranches are among
the first to lose money when the asset starts souring.  
 “We have been thinking collectively about how to help
people move some of the risk,” wrote Bash-Polley, an executive
in the Goldman Sachs division that sold bonds. “We need to make
sure we arm” salespeople “with our pricing and have them focus
on the more difficult positions.”  
 Targeting Clients  
 In targeting clients, Bash-Polley wrote that Goldman Sachs
should focus on those that “can possibly do larger size at a
level that would be attractive when you take into consideration
the size of risk we could move.”  
 “Makes sense to me,” responded Kevin Gasvoda, a Goldman
Sachs colleague.  
 Goldman Sachs spokesman Samuel Robinson declined to comment
on the e-mails.  
 The Senate hearing comes less than two weeks after the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission sued the firm and employee
Fabrice Tourre, 31, on claims they withheld material information
from investors in a CDO. Goldman Sachs said it will vigorously
contest the case, and Tourre told the senators yesterday, “I
deny categorically the SEC’s allegations.”  
 Levin said at the hearing that Goldman Sachs “profited by
taking advantage of its clients’ reasonable expectation that it
would not sell products that it didn’t want to succeed, and that
there was no conflict of economic interest between the firm and
the customers it had pledged to serve.”  
 Making Money  
 In a Sept. 26, 2007, e-mail released by the committee, Peter
Kraus, Goldman Sachs’s then co-head of investment management,
told Blankfein that some clients were expressing concern that
the firm was making money for itself but not its customers.  
 Goldman Sachs had reported six days earlier that third-
quarter net income rose 79 percent to $2.85 billion after the
bank bet against mortgage bonds. Kraus told Blankfein he had met
with more than 10 clients and “individual prospects” since the
earnings announcement.  
 “The institutions don’t and I wouldn’t expect them to,
make any comments like ur good at making money for urself but
not us,” wrote Kraus, who left Goldman Sachs in September 2008
after working at the company for 22 years.  
 “The individuals do sometimes, but while it requires the
utmost humility from us in response, I feel very strongly it
binds clients even closer to the firm. The alternative of take
ur money to a firm who is an under performer and not the best,
just isn’t reasonable. Clients ultimately believe association
with the best is good for them in the long run,” he wrote.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The biggest financial firms rarely depose their leaders  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein's future may be determined by the company
board in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein's future may be determined by the company
board in New York. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 28 (Bloomberg) -- William Cohan, author of "House of Cards" and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton and Erik Schatzker about Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executives' testimony before a Senate subcommittee yesterday. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is sworn in before a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Carl Levin, a Democrat from Michigan, chairs a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Daniel Sparks, former partner and head of mortgages with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., left to right, Joshua Birnbaum, former managing director of structured products group trading with Goldman, Michael Swenson, managing director of structured products group trading with Goldman, and Fabrice Tourre, executive director of structured products group trading with Goldman, are sworn in during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Fabrice Tourre, executive director of structured products group trading with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., takes his seat before a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Protestors hold signs during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Tuesday, April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., testifies at a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis, in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Chris Kleponis  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Carl Levin, a Democrat from Michigan, left, speaks with Senator John McCain, a Republican from Arizona, during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Protestors hold signs depicting Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and Fabrice Tourre, executive director of structured products group trading with Goldman, during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Fabrice Tourre, executive director of structured products group trading with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., rubs his eyes while testifying during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., leaves a hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., U.S., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
