-- Goldman Sachs Turns to New Lobbying Playbook
-- Robert Schmidt
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/goldman-sachs-seeks-new-lobbying-playbook-amid-firestorm-in-washington.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which for
years saw no need to play a traditional Washington lobbying
game, is deploying former lawmakers and crisis specialists as it
tries to tamp down the political firestorm threatening its well-
honed brand.  
 The firm’s 12-person government affairs office in
Washington is aiding what one person involved called a franchise
protection strategy in the wake of a Securities and Exchange
Commission fraud suit against the firm this month. Advisers
include an ex-House Democratic Leader, a chief of staff to
President Ronald Reagan, President Bill Clinton’s SEC chairman
and President Barack Obama’s first White House counsel.  
 The first test of the campaign comes today as Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein and six other current or
former Goldman Sachs employees testify before a Senate panel
investigating the company’s role in fueling the subprime loan
crisis. The grilling is a turnabout for the firm, which has seen
its former partners become Treasury secretaries, top
presidential aides and even senators.  
 “Goldman relied on their top-level connections so they
wouldn’t have to worry about the public relations and the crisis
lobbying,” said Mark Corallo, a former Justice Department
spokesman who now provides communications advice to companies.
“Seemingly they haven’t learned the lesson of politics: In a
crisis, it’s every man for himself.”  
 More Open  
 The new Goldman Sachs strategy includes a more open public
relations campaign aimed at the public and Congress, as well as
a scorched-earth attack on the SEC case.  
 The bank has seized on the SEC commissioners’ 3-2 vote to
argue that the agency filed a weak, and perhaps politically
timed, lawsuit. The news broke April 16 as the Obama
administration was making a big push for legislation overhauling
Wall Street regulation.  
 “You’ve got a highly contentious series of regulatory
reforms, you have a populist electorate that is very angry at
the financial community and you have a commission that has been
damaged over the years, seeking to restore its credibility as a
tough regulator,” said former SEC chairman Arthur Levitt, a
Goldman Sachs adviser. Levitt is a member of the board of
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  
 People familiar with Goldman Sachs’s effort say the
Washington team has been trying to ensure that lawmakers
understand the bank’s position. In a rare move, the company
recently devoted part of its Web site to a public explanation of
its actions in the financial crisis. Its lobbyists invited
lawmakers and their aides to listen to the bank’s April 20
earnings call, where executives outlined its legal defense.  
 Boosted Spending  
 The firm has been putting more money into Washington. It
boosted its lobbying expenditures to $1.2 million during the
first three months of 2010 from $670,000 during the same period
a year earlier. Goldman Sachs’s political action committee
contributed a total of $290,500 to both parties in March.  
 In prior years, Goldman Sachs earned the nickname
“Government Sachs” because its entrée in Washington often was
based on its own alumni, who have included Treasury Secretaries
Henry Paulson and Robert Rubin. President George W. Bush’s chief
of staff Joshua Bolten worked at Goldman Sachs as did Jon
Corzine, who was a senator and then governor of New Jersey.  
 The investment bank began rebuilding its Washington
operation in the middle of 2008. Early this month, with the
Senate and SEC investigations heating up, Goldman Sachs brought
in several new consultants with ties to the capital’s power
brokers.  
 Leading the communications side is Mark Fabiani, a former
special counsel to Clinton who advised the former president on
political, media and legal responses to the Whitewater scandal.
Another new consultant is Stephen Labaton, who covered the SEC
as a reporter for the New York Times.  
 Greg Craig  
 The firm has turned to Obama’s former counsel Greg Craig to
mastermind its legal defense for the subprime probe by the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. A partner in
the Washington office of the Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom law firm, Craig led the legal defense team for Clinton’s
impeachment trial.  
 Craig and the other recent hires also face the challenge of
helping Goldman Sachs navigate the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission, the group set up by Congress to investigate the
reasons for the economic collapse.  
 Banned  
 Overseeing the Goldman Sachs Washington office is Michael
Paese, a former top staffer to House Financial Services
Committee Chairman Barney Frank. Frank, in a move that
underscores some of the bank’s challenges, took the unusual step
last year of banning Paese from lobbying the panel on the
regulatory-overhaul bill, even though he was allowed to under
federal law.  
 Under Paese are Todd Malan, a Republican who was head of a
trade association for U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies,
and Kenneth Connolly, who was staff director for the Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee.  
 Other recent hires include: Michael Thompson, a former
staff member for Wyoming Republican Senator Mike Enzi; Joyce
Brayboy, who worked for Democratic Representative Mel Watt of
North Carolina; Eric Edwards, Democrat and former aide to a
House Financial Services subcommittee; and Joe Wall, a former
aide to Vice President Dick Cheney.  
 Hired Guns  
 While Goldman Sachs uses about a dozen outside firms, its
most prominent hired guns included former Democratic House
Leader Richard Gephardt and Kenneth Duberstein, a Reagan chief
of staff.  
 Gephardt’s former chief of staff, Steve Elmendorf, is
another one of the bank’s primary lobbyists, as are former
Democratic Representative Harold Ford Jr. of Tennessee and
Richard Roberts, a former SEC commissioner and chief of staff to
Richard Shelby, the top Republican on the Senate Banking
Committee.  
 Some Wall Street observers predicted that even with all the
new firepower, Goldman Sachs faces an uphill battle in
Washington.  
 “They are tarnished. I don’t think they can regain their
luster,” said Charles Geisst, a finance professor at Manhattan
College in New York. “I wouldn’t want to be the next president
to appoint a Goldman Sachs person to the Fed or wherever.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lloyd C. Blankfein, CEO of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., chats with other attendees prior to a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama speech about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York on April 22, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., chats with other attendees prior to a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama speech about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
