-- Goldman Execs' Lingo Reveals Hidden Truth: Jonathan Weil
-- Jonathan Weil
-- 2010-04-27T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/goldman-sachs-dictionary-reveals-hidden-truth-jonathan-weil.html

          
          
             The key to understanding Goldman
Sachs resides not in its opaque  balance sheet , or the trove of
internal e-mails that the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations will release at its hearing on the bank’s role in
the financial crisis. What you must realize, foremost, is that
Goldman’s employees speak their own distinct language.  
 The only thing certain about today’s  hearing  is that, in
between the sounds of burbling lawmakers reading staff-written
questions off index cards, there will be replies from Goldman
executives that seem unresponsive, when in fact they are not.
All the senators need to follow the testimony is a handy-dandy
Goldmanese-to-English dictionary, excerpts from which will be
provided shortly.  
 First, a quick recap of why Goldman Sachs is in trouble.
The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a lawsuit April 16
accusing Goldman and a vice president,  Fabrice Tourre , of making
false and misleading statements to investors about a synthetic
collateralized debt obligation that was designed to fail. The
SEC said the firm’s main offense was telling the German bank  IKB 
that a company called ACA Management had selected the portfolio
of investments underlying the deal, when actually the selection
process was heavily influenced by Paulson & Co., a hedge fund
that later made $1 billion shorting the CDO.  
 Goldman has called the SEC’s allegations “completely
unfounded in law and fact.” Yet to truly grasp the breadth of
the bank’s defense, you must understand what the following 10
 Goldmanese  terms of art mean in ordinary English:  
 1. Sophisticated: Susceptible to predators, blindly
trusting of Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, all in
all an easy mark.  
 How to use in a sentence: The companies that lost $1.1
billion on Abacus 2007-AC1 “were among the most sophisticated
mortgage investors in the world,” Goldman said in an April 16
press release.  
 2. Transaction: An investment position whose scope can be
defined rigidly or elastically, as a single business deal or a
group of many, resulting in either a loss or a profit, depending
on the desired outcome. Such flexibility can be useful for tax
purposes, or for confusing an  angry  yet gullible public.  
 Example: “Goldman Sachs  lost money  on the transaction,”
the bank said. (Notice how the word, when used by Goldman,
conveniently excludes the seriously large offsetting profits
Goldman made by  shorting  subprime-mortgage bonds in 2007.)  
 3. Hedged: A public-relations term that refers to the act
of pairing a free-standing loss with a separate profitable
transaction, thus creating the outward impression that a Wall
Street bank never bore any risk. Effective only when the actual
facts are unverifiable. Not effective where showing a profit
would cause further harm to the bank’s reputation.  
 Usage: Goldman said it wouldn’t have lost money if AIG had
filed for bankruptcy in 2008, because the bank was hedged.
Goldman said it was not hedged on Abacus.  
 4. Select: To agree to be called a “ portfolio selection
agent ,” at a Wall Street bank’s request, even though one of the
bank’s bearish clients is doing much of the picking. See
statement from Goldman’s April 16 press release: “ACA, the
largest investor, selected the portfolio.”  
 Related word: Independent. As in, ACA was “an independent
and experienced portfolio selection agent,” Goldman said.  
 5. Investor: A company that promises to pay an outlandish
sum of money upon the occurrence of some future event, in
exchange for a small amount of cash upfront. For instance, if
you pay $1,000 to buy a $1 million life-insurance policy, the
insurance company has made a $1 million investment in you. Bet
you didn’t know that, huh?  
 Likewise, according to Goldman, ACA made a $909 million
investment when it sold $909 million of credit protection on
Abacus, in exchange for yearly premiums of 50 basis points, or
half a percentage point of the amount insured. (That’s about
$4.5 million, by my calculation.)  
 6. Market maker: An intermediary that matches sophisticated
investors with  clients  that actually  know what they’re doing. 
Usually employs at least one French-speaking broker who takes
orgasmic pleasure in persuading widows and orphans to buy CDOs
that he thinks were designed to fail.  
 7. Relatively unknown: Less famous than the  Paris Hilton 
sex tape.  
 Usage: “A disclosure that the relatively unknown Paulson
was the entity” that planned to short Abacus “would have been
immaterial to investors in April 2007,” Goldman told the SEC in
a  letter  last year.  
 8. Hindsight: The ability to recognize the consequences of
a decision contemporaneously, as it’s being made. Example: With
hindsight, anyone at Goldman Sachs with a pulse could have seen
that the CDO it structured was designed to fail.  
 9. Blindside: To catch a Wall Street bank off guard about a
material event, such as an SEC fraud lawsuit, thus depriving its
board members of any potential opportunity to tip off their
friends with market-moving inside information.  
 10.  Synthetic collateralized debt obligation : Don’t ask.  
 Just remember this. Goldman Sachs lost more than $100
million as a market maker in a transaction involving
sophisticated investors. It wasn’t hedged. The identity of the
relatively unknown Paulson wasn’t a material fact, and neither
was Paulson’s role in the selection process.  
 Only with the benefit of hindsight could a reasonable
person see anything wrong with Goldman’s actions. Moreover,
Goldman was unfairly blindsided by the SEC’s lawsuit.  
 Good luck,  senators . You’re on your own now.  
 ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s chairman and chief executive officer, will tell a Senate committee tomorrow that the firm didn't wager against clients and didn't make a big bet against the housing market.
     "We didn't have a massive short against the housing market and we certainly did not bet against our clients," Blankfein, 55, will tell the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, according to a prepared text of his remarks. Bloomberg's Julie Hyman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
