-- Goldman's Tourre `Categorically' Denies SEC's Claims
-- Ryan J. Donmoyer
-- 2010-04-27T15:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/goldman-s-tourre-to-categorically-deny-sec-s-claims.html

          
          
             Fabrice Tourre, the Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. executive director sued by the Securities and
Exchange Commission for fraud, told a Senate subcommittee that
he will defend himself in court against the suit.  
 “I deny categorically the SEC’s allegations,” Tourre, 31,
said today at a standing-room-only hearing of the Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations in Washington. “I will defend
myself in court against this false claim,” he said, adding that
a deal at the center of the suit “was not designed to fail.”  
 Tourre spoke after protesters dressed in prison garb held
up signs reading “shame” and one shouted, “Too big to fail but
not too big for jail.” Six other current and former Goldman
Sachs employees including Chief Executive Officer Lloyd
Blankfein are testifying today about the firm’s mortgage-
securities business in the years leading up to the biggest
financial crisis since the Great Depression. Goldman Sachs, the
most profitable securities firm in Wall Street history, contests
the SEC’s suit, saying it provided investors with all of the
information they needed.  
 In early 2007, as the U.S. housing market teetered, Goldman
Sachs created and sold a CDO linked to subprime mortgages
without disclosing to investors ACA Management LLC and IKB
Deutsche Industriebank AG that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped
pick the underlying securities and bet against the vehicle,
known as Abacus 2007-AC1, the SEC said.  
 In its complaint, the SEC alleged that Tourre misled ACA
into thinking that Paulson planned to invest in the equity, or
riskiest piece, of the deal instead of betting against it by
buying credit protection.  
 ‘Most Important Clients’  
 “I never told ACA, the portfolio selection agent, that
Paulson & Co. would be an equity investor in the AC-1
transaction or would take any long position in the deal,”
Tourre told the panel, as media including television crews from
Japan and Russia looked on. “Although I don’t recall the exact
words that I used, I recall informing ACA that Paulson’s fund
was expected to buy credit protection on some of the senior
tranches.”  
 Tourre also told the panel that ACA and IKB were
“institutions with significant resources and experience in the
CDO market” and that they “were two of the most important
clients of my desk.”  
 “Goldman Sachs also had no economic motive to design the
AC-1 transaction to fail,” said.  
 ‘Unfounded Attacks’  
 “I have been the target of unfounded attacks on my
character and motives,” Tourre said. “I appreciate the
opportunity to appear before the subcommittee to answer these
false charges.”  
 The line to get into today’s hearing stretched down the
corridor on the first floor of the Dirksen Senate office
building, the equivalent of half a city block. At the head of
the line were four protestors dressed in jail stripes holding
“wanted” posters for Tourre and Blankfein.  
 “Blankfein’s not doing God’s work, he’s doing the work of
the devil,” one of the protestors said, referring to a comment
Blankfein made in November while defending the banking industry.  
 Tourre was placed on paid leave by Goldman Sachs after the
Securities and Exchange Commission filed its suit on April 16.
Joining him on the first panel of witnesses were Michael
Swenson, a managing director in the structured products group,
Joshua Birnbaum, a former managing director in the same group,
and Daniel Sparks, a former partner who ran the mortgage
department.  
 Viniar, Broderick  
 Later today, the panel will hear from David Viniar, the
firm’s chief financial officer, and Craig Broderick, the chief
risk officer. Blankfein, 55, will be the final witness at the
end of the day.  
 Goldman Sachs made an estimated $3.7 billion in 2007 by
placing “heavy bets” against mortgage-linked securities,
including some it created, Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who
leads the investigations panel, said.  
 “Goldman Sachs didn’t just make money, it profited by
taking advantage of its clients’ reasonable expectation that it
would not sell products that it did not want to succeed and that
there was no conflict of economic interest between the firm and
its customers,” Levin said today in his opening remarks. “Its
conduct brings into question the whole conduct of Wall Street.”  
 Blankfein, in his prepared remarks, said the firm “didn’t
have a massive short against the housing market and we certainly
did not bet against our clients.”  
 Paulson’s Position  
 Tourre “believes that he indicated” to investors that
Paulson was interested in taking a “short” position on the
deal, meaning he was betting against it, Greg Palm, Goldman
Sachs’s co-general counsel, said last week.  
 Sen. Susan Collins, a Republican Senator from Maine, said
in her opening Statement that “even legal practices can raise
ethical concerns.”  
 “There is something unseemly about Goldman betting against
the housing market at the same time as it is selling to its
clients mortgage backed securities containing toxic loans,”
Collins said.  
 “The whole building is about to collapse anytime now,”
Tourre wrote to a friend in a January 2007 e-mail, according to
the SEC complaint. “Only potential survivor, the fabulous
Fab... standing in the middle of all these complex, highly
leveraged, exotic trades he created without necessarily
understanding all of the implications of those
monstruosities!!!”  
 ‘Not Too Brilliant’  
 In a March 7, 2007, e-mail released by the firm, Tourre
described the U.S. subprime mortgage market as “not too
brilliant” and said that “according to Sparks,” an apparent
reference to Daniel Sparks who ran Goldman Sachs’s mortgage
business at the time, “that business is totally dead, and the
poor little subprime borrowers will not last too long!!!”  
 John McCain, the Republican Senator from Arizona, said he
didn’t know if anything Goldman Sachs did was illegal.  
 “But from the reading of these e-mails and the information
that this committee has uncovered there’s no doubt that their
behavior was unethical,” McCain said. “The American people will
render a judgment as well as the courts.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan J. Donmoyer in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fabrice Tourre, executive director of structured products group trading with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., swears in during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Henning, a professor at Wayne State University Law School, talks with Bloomberg’s Deirdre Bolton about the testimony of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive Fabrice Tourre before the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and its potential impact on legislation governing the financial industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Marvin Pickholz, a partner at Duane Morris LLP, talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu, Peter Cook and Jon Erlichman about today's Senate subcommittee hearing on Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who leads the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, says Goldman Sachs Group Inc. abused clients for its own benefit, profiting by "taking advantage of its clients’ reasonable expectation that it would not sell products that it did not want to succeed and that there was no conflict of economic interest between the firm and its customers." (This is an excerpt from the hearing. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Fabrice Tourre, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive director, is photographed before a hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
