-- Goldman Will Face Senate in Post-Crisis Reckoning
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-04-27T10:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/goldman-sachs-to-face-senate-s-levin-in-post-crisis-reckoning.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Wall
Street’s most profitable firm, will face off against a U.S.
Senate subcommittee today in a pivotal hearing that could have
repercussions for the future of the financial industry.  
 Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who leads the Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, released documents
that he said showed the company “put its own interest and
profit ahead of the interests of its clients,” a conflict he
called on Congress to end. Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs’s
chairman and chief executive officer, will dispute that
assertion and argue the firm was merely managing its own risk.  
 The hearing takes place as the Senate debates financial
reform legislation that could prevent banks from trading for
their own accounts and require them to separate derivatives
businesses from regulated depository subsidiaries. It also
follows a U.S. regulator’s civil-fraud lawsuit against Goldman
Sachs and an employee, Fabrice Tourre, for misleading investors
in a mortgage-linked investment, charges the firm denies.  
 “This market is not free until it is free of self-dealing
and until it is free of conflict of interest,” Levin, 75, said
at a press briefing yesterday. “It is not free until it ends
the gambling operation that results in gambling debts that the
public ends up paying.”  
 Tourre, Blankfein  
 The hearing, set to begin at 10 a.m. in Washington, will
start with questioning of Tourre; Michael Swenson, a managing
director in the structured-products group; Joshua Birnbaum, a
former managing director in the same group; and Daniel Sparks, a
former partner who ran the mortgage department.  
 Later in the day, the subcommittee will hear from David
Viniar, the firm’s chief financial officer, and Craig Broderick,
the chief risk officer. Blankfein, 55, will be the final
witness, facing the panel alone at the end of the hearing.  
 “We didn’t have a massive short against the housing market
and we certainly did not bet against our clients,” Blankfein
will tell the committee, according to a prepared text of his
remarks.  
 While the firm contests the SEC’s complaint, “I also
recognize how such a complicated transaction may look to many
people,” Blankfein said in his remarks. “We have to do a
better job of striking the balance between what an informed
client believes is important to his or her investing goals and
what the public believes is overly complex and risky.”  
 Shares Fall  
 Goldman Sachs fell 0.4 percent to $151.43 by 12:23 p.m. in
Germany, after dropping 3.4 percent to $152.03 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday, before Levin’s statements
were made public. The shares have tumbled 17 percent from their
level before the SEC filed its suit and are down 10 percent so
far this year in New York.  
 Yesterday U.S. Senate Republicans blocked Democrats from
advancing their plan to overhaul Wall Street regulation as the
two sides debate provisions including consumer protections and
derivatives. Both parties are trying to tap into voter anger at
Wall Street and the bank bailouts that took place as Americans
grappled with record home foreclosures and rising unemployment.  
 Goldman Sachs would probably be hardest hit among large
U.S. banks if Congress bans firms from trading for their own
account. Viniar, the CFO who’s scheduled to testify today,
estimated in January that approximately 10 percent of the
company’s revenue derives from trading that has no connection
with customer business. That would have been about $4.5 billion
last year.  
 Employees of Goldman Sachs, which set a Wall Street pay
record in 2007 when Blankfein was awarded a $67.9 million bonus,
are among the biggest political donors in the last two decades.  
 Campaign Contributions  
 Nine of the 10 members of Levin’s committee have accepted
campaign finance donations from the firm’s employees, both
individually and through a political action committee, since
1989, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group. The exception is Senator Edward
Kaufman, a Democrat from Delaware, who never raised money for an
election because he was appointed to fill Vice President Joseph
Biden’s former seat and hasn’t run for a full term.  
 Arizona Republican John McCain, who ran for president in
2000 and 2008, has accepted the most of any member of the
subcommittee with $337,065, while Jon Tester, a Democrat from
Montana, has taken just $6,400, the group’s data show.  
 While the spotlight is on Goldman Sachs at today’s hearing,
Levin emphasized that the firm’s actions represent practices
that he said are widespread on Wall Street.  
 “To sell to customers at the same time you’re betting
against what you’re selling -- we think it’s not uncommon and
think it ought to end,” Levin said yesterday. “We think there
are a number of banks engaged in similar conduct, but we had to
focus on one.”  
 ‘Heavy Bets’  
 Levin, whose committee first subpoenaed information from
Goldman Sachs in June, estimates that the firm made $3.7 billion
in 2007 by placing “heavy bets” against mortgage-linked
securities, including some it created. The figure doesn’t take
into account losses Goldman Sachs suffered on mortgage-related
securities it held, he said.  
 “We respectfully disagree with Chairman Levin’s
statement,” Lucas van Praag, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs,
said yesterday. “We did not have a big bet against the housing
market, as our performance in residential mortgages
demonstrates, and we believe we at all times worked
appropriately with our clients.”  
 Goldman Sachs released data on April 24 that showed the
firm reaped gains on its mortgage trading activities in 2007 and
then lost money in the same unit in 2008.  
 ‘Real Bad Feeling’  
 Among the evidence Levin released yesterday was an internal
e-mail that describes how the firm’s mortgage derivatives desk
started the quarter with a $6 billion “long” position on BBB-
rated mortgages “and shifted the position to net short $10bn
notional.”  
 An October 2007 internal e-mail sent to Sparks, who ran the
mortgage business and is among those testifying today, includes
the comment “real bad feeling across European sales about some
of the trades we did with clients. The damage this has done to
our franchise is very significant. Aggregate loss of our clients
on just these 5 trades along (sic) is 1bln+.”  
 Swenson, the managing director in the structured-products
group who is also to appear today, boasted in his 2007
performance review that “I said ‘no’ to clients who demanded
that GS should ‘support the GSAMP’ program as clients tried to
gain leverage over us,” he said, referring to the name for
Goldman Sachs’s own mortgage-backed deals. “Those were
unpopular decisions but they saved the firm hundreds of millions
of dollars.”  
 Conveyor Belt  
 In a September 2007 e-mail to Blankfein, an employee
describes having met with 10 or more individual “prospects”
and clients and tells Blankfein about how their attitudes differ
from those of institutional clients.  
 “The institutions don’t and I wouldn’t expect them to,
make any comments like ur (sic) good at making money for urself
(sic) but not us,” the e-mail said. “The individuals do
sometimes, but while it requires the utmost humility from us in
response I feel very strongly it binds clients even closer to
the firm, because the alternative of take ur (sic) money to a
firm who is an under performer and not the best, just isn’t
reasonable. Clients ultimately believe association with the best
is good for them in the long run.”  
 Goldman Sachs built a “conveyer belt” of mortgage deals
and then bet against them, Levin said, actions that he said
contributed to the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  
 Conflicts of Interest  
 Levin said his committee isn’t responsible for determining
whether any crimes occurred, although he said the panel will
decide after the hearing whether to refer the matter to the SEC
or the Justice Department.  
 “The SEC and the courts will resolve the legal question of
whether Goldman’s actions broke the law,” Levin said. “The
question for us is whether Goldman’s actions in 2007 were
appropriate and whether we should act, legislatively, to bar
similar actions in the future.”  
 While Levin said he is ready to vote on a financial
regulation package in the Senate this week, he said he thinks it
could be strengthened. He has proposed an amendment that would
help resolve the conflicts of interest among Wall Street firms
that he said are embodied in the documents. He also endorsed
banning so-called naked credit-default swaps, or bets on a
decline in creditworthiness by parties that have no exposure to
the underlying loans or bonds.  
 ‘Cherry-Picked’  
 After Levin posted internal Goldman Sachs e-mails on his
Web site on April 24 that he said show the firm “made a lot of
money by betting against the mortgage market,” the firm
responded with more than 70 pages of e-mails and other documents
that it said showed the firm lost money on mortgages in 2008 and
that executives didn’t have any kind of consensus that the
market would fall.  
 Goldman Sachs disputes the SEC’s claims that the firm
defrauded investors when selling a collateralized debt
obligation tied to mortgages by failing to inform them of the
role played by hedge fund Paulson & Co. The company said on
April 24 that Levin’s committee “cherry-picked” the evidence
it released and jumped to conclusions “even before holding a
hearing.”  
 As other banks struggled throughout the financial crisis,
Goldman Sachs posted record earnings in 2007 and then topped
that in 2009. In late 2008, following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., the firm was allowed to convert to a
bank under the oversight of the Federal Reserve and received $10
billion of taxpayer money, which it repaid with interest about
eight months later.  
 ‘Ultimate Harm’  
 While Levin said his committee hasn’t found any evidence
that Blankfein was himself aware of the firm’s positions on
specific deals, he said the documents show that Blankfein knew
the firm was shorting the market in 2007.  
 “The ultimate harm here is not just to the clients who
were not well-served by their investment bank, the harm here is
to all of us,” Levin said yesterday. “The toxins that Goldman
Sachs and others helped inject into our financial system have
done incalculable harm to people who have never heard of a
synthetic CDO and who have no defenses against the harm that
such exotic Wall Street creations can cause.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Carl Levin, a Democrat from Michigan, speaks at a news conference in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Monday, April 26, 2010. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s chairman and chief executive officer, will tell a Senate committee tomorrow that the firm didn't wager against clients and didn't make a big bet against the housing market.
     "We didn't have a massive short against the housing market and we certainly did not bet against our clients," Blankfein, 55, will tell the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, according to a prepared text of his remarks. Bloomberg's Julie Hyman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Gary Townsend, president of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about the outlook for today's Senate subcommittee hearing on Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s investments in mortgage-linked securities. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., left, chats with other attendees before a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama at Cooper Union in New York, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk past the entrance to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s new headquarters building at 200 West Street in New York, on April 16, 2010. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., left, chats with other attendees before a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama at Cooper Union in New York, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lloyd C. Blankfein, CEO of Goldman Sachs Inc.  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., chats with other attendees prior to a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama speech about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York on April 22, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., chats with other attendees prior to a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama speech about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
