-- Goldman Grilled in Senate Hearing
-- Michael J. Moore
-- 2010-04-27T17:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/goldman-execs-grilled-in-senate-hearing.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executives
were grilled by U.S. senators probing the bank’s mortgage
business as Senator Carl Levin asked why it sold a set of
investments the lender had itself labeled “shitty.”  
 “How about the fact that you sold hundreds of millions of
that deal after your people knew it was a shitty deal?” the
Michigan Democrat asked Daniel Sparks, who ran the bank’s
mortgage unit at the time. “Does that bother you at all?”  
 Levin, who heads the Senate subcommittee that’s holding
today’s hearings, was referring to a June 2007 e-mail from
Thomas Montag, the former head of sales and trading in the
Americas at Goldman Sachs, to Sparks. The message described a
set of mortgage-linked investments that his bank had been trying
to sell as part of “one shitty deal.”  
 “I don’t recall selling hundreds of millions of that deal
after that,” Sparks replied, adding that he believed the e-mail
referred to his performance, not the security itself.  
 “If you can’t give a clear answer to that one, Mr. Sparks,
I don’t think we’re going to get too many clear answers from
you,” Levin said.  
 Seven current and former Goldman Sachs employees including
Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein are testifying about the
mortgage-securities business in the years leading to the biggest
financial crisis since the Great Depression. Goldman Sachs, the
most profitable securities firm in Wall Street history, had been
sued for fraud by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and
contests the claim.  
 Tourre Denies Allegations  
 As the executives testified, Goldman Sachs shares had one
of three gains among the 79 financial companies in the S&P 500.
The stock rose 70 cents to $152.73 as of 12:50 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Fabrice Tourre, the only Goldman Sachs employee named by
the SEC, testified today that he “categorically” denied the
allegations. “I will defend myself in court against this false
claim, Tourre, 31, told the standing-room-only hearing of the
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations in Washington.  
 The transaction referred to by Levin was Timberwolf Ltd., a
$1 billion collateralized debt obligation holding pieces of
other CDOs. The CDO also included optimistic side-bets on the
performance of CDOs, derivatives in which the firm took the
opposite pessimistic side in ‘‘many’’ cases, the panel said.  
 Timberwolf’s 2008 Liquidation  
 ‘‘Boy that timberwo[l]f was one shitty deal,’’ Montag, who
is now Bank of America Corp.’s president of global banking and
markets, said in a June 22, 2007, e-mail. Within five months of
Timberwolf’s debut, the CDO had lost 80 percent of its value,
and it was liquidated in 2008, according to the statement
yesterday.  
 ‘‘The message that I took from the e-mail from Mr. Montag
was that my performance on that deal wasn’t good and I think the
fact that we had lost money related to that wasn’t good,”
Sparks said at the hearing. “I didn’t use that term in respect
to this deal.”  
 Sparks, 43, who left the bank in 2008, told Montag earlier
on June 22, 2007, that $300 million of Timberwolf securities were
the “main thing” left among a group of positions the bank had
bought from an unidentified source, according to the e-mails. In
a June 7, 2007, e-mail, a Goldman Sachs employee said a head of
sales in Korea at the New York-based company felt like he could
“push” a buyer whose name was redacted to purchase more of the
debt.  
 Blankfein to Speak  
 The CDO was among securities that Goldman Sachs sold to
clients after deciding the firm needed to reduce its mortgage
holdings, Levin’s panel said in a statement yesterday.  
 Montag, now 53, isn’t scheduled to appear and didn’t
respond to a request for comment. Bank of America spokeswoman
Jessica Oppenheim declined to comment.  
 The committee began to release excerpts of the Goldman
Sachs documents yesterday. Today, Blankfein, 55, will tell the
panel his firm didn’t wager against clients, according to a
prepared text of his remarks.  
 “We believe we at all times worked appropriately with our
clients,” Lucas van Praag, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. We did try to manage our
risk, as our shareholders and regulators would expect.’’  
 Bear Buys Timberwolf  
 The Timberwolf CDO was issued in March 2007, following a
Goldman Sachs quarter that ended February 2007 in which one
department of the bank shifted from $6 billion of bets that
mortgage bonds would perform to $10 billion they would default,
according to Bloomberg data and information the panel released.  
 Bear Stearns Asset Management, the manager of two hedge
funds overseen by Ralph Cioffi whose collapse in June 2007
roiled global markets, was among the buyers, purchasing about
$300 million, according to the committee. Cioffi’s funds that
month sold some securities to meet margin calls from lenders.  
 Sparks in one e-mail urged “personnel working on a
potential Korean sale to ‘[g]et ‘er done,’ and sent a mass e-
mail to the sales force promising ‘ginormous credits’ for
selling’’ the debt, according to Levin’s statement. ‘‘A
congratulatory e-mail was sent to an employee who sold a number
of the securities: ‘Great job _ trading us out of our entire
Timberwolf Single-A position,’ ’’ the panel said, potentially
referring to $36 million of A-rated notes.  
 Montag’s Career  
 Montag retired from Goldman Sachs in December 2007, and was
recruited in April 2008 by then Merrill Lynch & Co. CEO John A.
Thain to his firm. Merrill Lynch was bought by Bank of America
in a government-assisted deal at the start of 2009.  
 CDOs repackage pools of assets such as mortgage bonds, bank
capital notes and buyout loans into new securities with varying
risks. While Timberwolf was initially intended to be about half
invested in mortgage-bond CDOs and half invested in
collateralized loan obligations tied to company debt, the bank
sold many of its ‘‘best-performing’’ CLOs separately after a
rebound in their values, Levin’s statement said.  
 Levin’s committee also released e-mails with references to
Hudson Mezzanine 2006-1, Anderson Mezzanine 2007-1 and Abacus
2007-AC1, the CDO at the heart of the SEC suit filed April 16.  
 The U.S. claims Goldman Sachs misled investors by failing
to disclose that hedge fund Paulson & Co. -- which was betting
against the U.S. mortgage market -- helped the Abacus CDO
manager select securities to include in the portfolio. Goldman
Sachs has called the SEC’s lawsuit ‘‘completely unfounded.”
Paulson wasn’t accused of any wrongdoing.  
 Greywolf’s Role  
 CDO managers select the collateral going into the vehicles,
and sometimes reinvest as the underlying positions pay down and
trade in and out of holdings.  
 In Timberwolf’s case, the manager was Purchase, New York-
based Greywolf Capital Management LP. The firm’s partners
included the late Greg Mount, who joined in 2005 after nine
years at Goldman Sachs, where he helped build its CDOs business,
according to the prospectus and the firm’s website.  
 Greywolf, which focuses on corporate debt and says on its
website it manages $848 million, planned to buy $41 million of
the CDO’s junior-most tranches, according to the prospectus. In
January 2007, Goldman Sachs underwrote a $502 million CLO
managed by Greywolf tied to high-yield company loans, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 Conflicts Disclosed  
 The conflicts of interest section of Timberwolf’s
prospectus said that Greywolf might “take into consideration
research and other brokerage services” from investment banks in
its decision-making for the CDO and also make separate
investments with “interests different from or adverse to” the
CDO’s collateral.  
 “Under the terms of the Collateral Management Agreement,”
Greywolf “will be permitted to take whatever action is in the
Collateral Manager’s best interest regardless of the impact on
the Collateral Assets,” according to the prospectus.  
 Mount died last April, the company said in a statement at
the time. Shawn Pattison, a spokesman for Greywolf, declined to
immediately comment.  
 On Goldman Sachs’s role, the prospectus said the firm would
act as the sole counterparty for the bullish derivative bets on
CDOs that the vehicle was making through so-called credit-
default swaps, “which creates concentration risk and may create
certain conflicts of interest.”  
 Matthew G. Bieber, described by the panel as the Goldman
trader responsible for managing Timberwolf’s issuance, later
characterized the day that the CDO was created as “a day that
will live in infamy,” according to an e-mail released today.  
 An employee at Goldman Sachs who today answered a number
for Bieber said that he was “off the desk” and didn’t take a
message.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Daniel Sparks, former partner and head of mortgages with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., left to right, Michael Swenson, managing director of structured products group trading with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Joshua Birnbaum, former managing director of structured products group trading with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and Fabrice Tourre, executive director of structured products group trading with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., swear in during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
