-- Google Says Hasn't Been Contacted on Indian Premier League Cricket Probe
-- Mehul Srivastava
-- 2010-04-27T14:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/google-says-it-hasn-t-been-contracted-regarding-indian-cricket-rights.html

          
          
             Indian investigators haven’t
contacted Google Inc. over its contract to stream Indian Premier
League cricket matches on YouTube, the company said today in an
e-mailed statement.  
 Google has a contract with Global Cricket Ventures to
stream Indian Premier League matches for this season and next,
the company said. The agreement allows Global Cricket Ventures
and Google to share advertising revenue from the games and from
the league’s official Web site.  
 Indian cricket’s governing body on April 26 said it would
probe broadcast and Internet agreements signed by the sport’s
richest league after suspending founder Lalit Modi. Modi didn’t
answer calls to his mobile phone.  
 “We have not been contacted by any investigating
authorities with regard to our agreement with GCV,” Google,
based in Mountain View, California, said in the statement.  
 The Financial Times reported today the Board of Control for
Cricket in India may probe broadcast rights held by Google and
Sony Corp. as part of an investigation into the Indian Premier
League, without citing anyone.  
 The television broadcast rights for the sport’s richest
league are with Multi Screen Media Pvt., which operates Sony
Entertainment Television in India and is backed by Sony Pictures
International. It has denied all allegations in acquiring the
broadcast deal.  
 Value Doubled  
 Multi Screen Media said it had “complied with applicable
laws” while securing the broadcast rights for the lucrative
cricket league, the most watched format of the game in a country
of 1.2 billion.  
 “Allegations in certain sections of the media attributing
wrongful conduct to MSM are incorrect and completely
unfounded,” it said in a statement on April 23.  
 The league’s value has more than doubled to $4.13 billion
from $2.01 billion last year, according to estimates by Brand
Finance Plc. The appreciation has outpaced last year’s 81
percent gain in India’s benchmark Sensitive Index, the most in
18 years.  
 Manchester United, a U.K. soccer team founded more than a
century ago, was valued at $1.87 billion in April 2009, while
the U.S. National Football League’s Dallas Cowboys was worth
$1.65 billion, according to Forbes magazine’s ranking of the
world’s most valuable sports teams.  
 Shashi Tharoor, 54, a junior foreign minister and a former
undersecretary general at the United Nations, resigned on April
18 amid opposition claims that he benefited from free shares
given to a friend by Rendezvous Sports World Ltd., which heads a
group that won a $333 million bid for a team from the southern
state of Kerala. Tharoor, in a statement to lawmakers on April
20, said he’d done “nothing improper or unethical, let alone
illegal.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in New Delhi at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        