-- India Plans to Sell Stake in Biggest Company by March 31, Official Says
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-04-27T12:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/government-to-sell-stake-in-indian-oil-by-march-31-ministry-official-says.html

          
          
             India may sell a stake in the
nation’s biggest company as part of a plan to raise a record 400
billion rupees ($9 billion) from asset sales and use the
proceeds to reduce the government’s budget deficit.  
 The government may sell shares in Indian Oil Corp. by March
31, Sidhartha Pradhan, joint secretary in the department of
disinvestment, told reporters in Mumbai today. The company’s
Chairman, B.M. Bansal, said he wasn’t aware of the government’s
plan when called for comment. India also plans to sell shares in
Hindustan Copper Ltd. and Power Grid Corp.  
 Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s administration plans to
sell shares in one state-run company almost every month. Asia’s
largest economy after Japan and China is selling assets and
airwaves to cut its budget deficit to 5.5 percent of gross
domestic product in the year that started April 1 from 6.9
percent in the 12 months through March 31, the sharpest
reduction in 19 years.  
 “We are very confident that we will be able to raise” the
targeted amount, Pradhan said.  
 Indian Oil shares, which have declined 8 percent this year,
gained 0.3 percent to 281.5 rupees at close of trading in Mumbai,
giving the company a market value of $15.4 billion. The
government owned 79 percent of the refiner as of Dec. 31, while
state-owned explorer Oil & Natural Gas Corp. held 8.8 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Highest Revenue  
 Indian Oil’s revenue was $53.6 billion rupees in the year
ended March 31, the most by an Indian company.  
 The government may raise 12 billion rupees selling shares
in Engineers India Ltd. in June, Pradhan said. Stakes will also
be sold in Coal India Ltd. and Steel Authority of India Ltd.  
 India plans to raise as much as 130 billion rupees
selling shares in Coal India in July, in the nation’s biggest
initial public offering, two government officials with direct
knowledge of the sale said on April 20.  
 “We think this will be the largest public issue to hit the
Indian markets,” Pradhan said of the Coal India IPO.  
 The largest IPO in India’s markets to date was Reliance
Power Ltd.’s share sale in January 2008, which raised 115.6
billion rupees, according to Bloomberg data.  
 SJVN Ltd., a state-owned Indian power utility, plans to
offer shares for 23 rupees to 26 rupees each in a sale that
opens on April 29, according to a release from the company.  
 The government is auctioning spectrum for operating 3G
services in India’s 22 designated telephone zones. The plan to
sell 93 licenses to provide high-speed data to mobile phones and
computers may raise an estimated 500 billion rupees.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        