-- Stocks Drop Most Since Feb. on Greece, Portugal Downgrade
-- Michael P. Regan
-- 2010-04-27T20:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/greece-portugal-lead-stock-declines-on-contagion-concern-yen-strengthens.html

          
          
             Stocks tumbled, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index falling the most since February, and the dollar
and Treasuries rose as credit-rating downgrades of Greece and
Portugal fueled concern debt-laden nations are moving closer to
default. Greek, Portuguese and Irish bonds sank.  
 The S&P 500 lost 2.3 percent at 4 p.m. in New York. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 3.1 percent, the most since
November, and the euro dropped below $1.32 for the first time
since April 2009. Yields on 10-year Treasuries tumbled 12 basis
points to 3.68 percent. Greek two-year note yields jumped to a
record of almost 19 percent and Portugal’s jumped to 5.7 percent
as credit-default swaps on Europe debt surged to the highest
ever. Oil sank 2.1 percent, while gold rallied 0.7 percent.  
 S&P lowered Greek debt to junk, while Portugal was cut two
steps as contagion from Greece’s debt crisis spreads through the
euro region. The downgrades come as German officials insist
Greece must outline further steps to cut the region’s largest
budget deficit before they will endorse the release of funds
from a 45 billion euro ($60 billion) rescue package.  
 “It’s the fear that Greece or Portugal may affect other
areas of Europe and derail this economic recovery,” said Burt
White, chief investment officer at LPL Financial in Boston,
which oversees $379 billion. “There’s now a perception that we
might see Greece or Portugal failing. If that happens, we may
see more headwinds.”  
 Goldman Hearings  
 The ratings downgrades for Greece and Portugal were a one-
two punch for securities markets distracted by the congressional
testimony of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executives in Washington.
U.S. trading volume slipped while Fabrice Tourre, an executive
director at the New York-based firm, read a prepared statement
on his role marketing a collateralized debt obligation, then
surged after the headlines on Greece were released.  
 U.S. senators probed the bank’s mortgage business with
Senator Carl Levin asked why it sold a set of investments the
lender had itself labeled “shitty.”  
 “What’s punctuating the downside of the market is the tense
exchange between the Goldman Sachs executives and Carl Levin and
other legislators,” said Matthew Kaufler, a money manager at
Federated Clover Investment Advisors in Rochester, New York,
which manages $3 billion. “From Wall Street’s perspective, the
timing couldn’t be worse because it raises the specter of
financial reform being pushed through with perhaps sharper teeth
than it otherwise would have had.”  
 Goldman Rallies  
 Goldman Sachs shares rose 0.7 percent, posting the only
gain among 79 companies in the S&P 500 Financial Index. Goldman
Sachs has still lost 17 percent since the Securities and
Exchange Commission sued the company for fraud on April 16.  
 “The damage is already built into the stock price,” said
Jason Weisberg, director of institutional trading at Seaport
Securities Corp. on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.
“Their ability to make money is unprecedented and if the rules
change they’ll figure out a new way to do it.”  
 Greece’s benchmark ASE equity index tumbled 6 percent to a
one-year low. The market in Athens closed before S&P cut the
nation’s rating. Portugal’s PSI-20 Index slumped 5.4 percent,
the most since October 2008, and Ireland’s ISEQ Overall Index
declined 4.5 percent, the biggest decline since October 2009.
Spain’s IBEX 35 fell 4.2 percent.  
 Yields on 10-year Portuguese bonds jumped 48 basis points
to 5.69 percent and Irish 10-year yields surged 19 basis points
to 5.10 percent.  
 Debt Insurance  
 Credit-default swaps on European sovereign debt surged to
records. Contracts tied to Greek government bonds climbed 111
basis points to 821, according to CMA DataVision. Portugal rose
54 basis points to 365.  
 The International Monetary Fund last week raised its
forecast for global growth this year while cautioning that a
failure to contain soaring public debt may have “severe”
consequences for the world economy. Global economic expansion
may hit 4.2 percent in 2010, the fastest rate since 2007, the
Washington-based fund estimated. “Fiscal fragilities” pose the
biggest threat to meeting the forecast, the IMF said April 22.  
 The S&P 500 retreated from a 19-month high for a second day
as growing concern over European debt overshadowed better-than-
estimated earnings and consumer confidence. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, the benchmark index for U.S.
stock options known as the VIX, surged as much as 33 percent,
the most intraday since October 2008.  
 Winning Streak  
 Today’s sell-off follows eight straight weeks of gains for
the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the longest streak since 2004,
and a 9.2 percent rally in the S&P 500 through April 23 that
gave the index the largest advance among the world’s 15 biggest
markets. The S&P 500’s valuation of 18.2 times earnings in the
past 12 months matches its average over the last decade.  
 The dollar rose against all 16 major counterparts except
the yen as investors fled riskier assets. The euro sank to a
one-year low of $1.3166 against.  
 S&P lowered Greece’s credit rating to BB+ from BBB+ and
warned that bondholders could recover as little as 30 percent of
their initial investment if the country restructures its debt.
The downgraded marked the first time a euro member has lost
investment grade rating since the currency’s 1999 debut. S&P
also reduced Portugal by two steps to A- from A+.  
 Greece said today’s downgrade of its rating by S&P doesn’t
reflect the “real facts” of the economy, according to an e-
mail from the country’s finance ministry this evening.  
 ‘Sustainable’ Plan  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel said yesterday she won’t
release funds to help Greece shore up its finances until the
nation has a “sustainable” plan to reduce its budget deficit.
Germany’s Economy Minister Rainer Bruederle said Greece needs to
present a plan to overcome its debt crisis as soon as possible.  
 “I think it’s directly related to Germany’s indecisiveness
and whether they’re going to participate in the bailout,” said
Matthew DiFilippo, director of research at Stewart Capital
Advisors LLC in Indiana, Pennsylvania, which manages $1 billion.
“If Germany doesn’t stand behind Greece, are they going to
stand behind Portugal? Greece isn’t significant enough
contributor to the EU overall in terms of GDP but it’s maybe
just an implication of how this all plays out in other countries
like Portugal and Ireland.”  
 Basic resources stocks posted the largest losses among 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600, losing 4.8 percent as a group.
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, fell 4.2
percent in London. Antofagasta Plc, which owns copper mines in
Chile, retreated 3.7 percent. Banco Popular Espanol SA declined
6.1 percent in Madrid after the Spanish lender said first-
quarter profit slipped.  
 Emerging Markets  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell for the first time in
three days, tumbling 1.9 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa index sank
3.4 percent, the most in almost three months, and the real fell
the most in three weeks versus the U.S. dollar.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index slid 2.1 percent to the
lowest level since October. China Vanke Co. dropped to a 13-
month low after predicting “rapid” house-price gains will end
as the government curbs real-estate loans. China may use capital
requirements for developers as a policy tool to restrain the
property market, Ba Shusong, deputy director general of the
State Council’s Development Research Center, told Shanghai
Securities News in an interview.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, pauses at the German federal chancellory in Berlin, on April 26, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, pauses at the German federal chancellory in Berlin, on April 26, 2010. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Gary Townsend, president of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about the outlook for today's Senate subcommittee hearing on Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s investments in mortgage-linked securities. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, speaks at a news conference in Berlin, on March 22, 2010. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
