-- Greece Needs `Groundbreaking' Effort to Reduce Deficit, Provopoulos Says
-- Christos Ziotis
-- 2010-04-27T09:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/greece-needs-groundbreaking-effort-to-reduce-deficit-provopoulos-says.html

          
          
             The Greek government needs to make
a “groundbreaking” effort to reduce its deficit and debt and
implement deeper spending cuts this year to “favorably”
surprise markets and overcome a lingering “credibility
deficit,” Greek Central Bank Governor George Provopoulos said.  
 “The road to the exit from the crisis will be long and
hard,” he said in a speech in Athens today. “This is why a
greater effort will be required from all of us over a longer
time. Our course in the forthcoming years will largely be
determined by the target we set ourselves and our commitment to
achieving it.”  
 Prime Minister George Papandreou on April 23 asked to
activate a 45 billion-euro ($60 billion) package of emergency
loans from the euro region and the International Monetary Fund
after a surge in borrowing costs made it too costly to finance
the country’s debt in the markets. The premier has cut wages and
spending and boosted taxes to trim the budget deficit, though
investors so far remain unconvinced the effort will succeed.  
 The government measures to cut the shortfall to 8.7 percent
of gross domestic product this year are “promising,” though
not sufficient, Provopoulos said. The country’s credibility has
been so damaged by the surge in the deficit to 13.6 percent of
GDP last year that “we must surpass ourselves and favorably
surprise the markets, by achieving even greater improvements
than the ones projected,” he said.  
 Deficit reduction this year should amount to more than 5
percentage points of GDP and deeper spending cuts are needed
that go beyond those already announced, he said. The government
should avoid pushing taxes any higher as that “would lead to a
contraction, instead of an increase in revenue,” he said.  
 He also said that the central bank’s forecast for an
economic contraction of 2 percent this year faces a “high
upside risk.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net 
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        