-- Greek Bondholders Face `Significant' Losses Under Aid Plan, Citigroup Says
-- John Glover
-- 2010-04-27T09:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/greek-bondholders-face-significant-losses-under-aid-plan-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             Greece is likely to default or
inflict “significant” losses on bondholders unless it receives
more generous terms on its planned aid package, according to
Willem Buiter, chief economist at Citigroup Inc.  
 Yields on Greek bonds soared close to 14 percent on the
benchmark two-year security amid concern investors will lose out
as the country grapples with the highest debt ratios in the
European Union. The cost to protect Greek debt against default
surged to a record along with credit-default swaps on Portugal
and Spain.  
 Greece asked the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund last week to activate a 45 billion-euro ($60
billion) emergency support package. The nation may manage to
avoid a formal default if it gains more favorable terms for the
financing than the rate of 300 basis points or 400 basis points
over benchmarks that’s on offer, Buiter wrote.  
 “With the financial terms currently on offer -- from the
euro area member states and from the markets -- a significant
haircut for creditors or even a formal default become more
likely,” wrote Buiter, a former external member of the Bank of
England’s policy making Monetary Policy Committee.  
 Default by Greece would damage the euro-area banks, where
regulators have “failed singularly to prevent a very high
concentration of exposure to Greek risk, and to Greek sovereign
risk,” Buiter wrote. “A sovereign default by a euro-area
member state could undermine the viability of euro-area banks
and cause further systemic distress.”  
 Investor Haircut  
 Investors are “highly likely” to have to agree to longer
maturities for their debt to help stave off a default, Buiter
wrote in a report today.  
 Any haircut, or reduction in the present value of
securities, would be limited to about 20 percent, “or, in a
worst-case scenario, up to 30 percent,” according to Buiter.
“The most likely outcome is that formal sovereign default is
avoided.”  
 A debt restructuring will probably be voluntary and Greece
will avoid formal default thanks to a mix of fiscal tightening,
structural reform and outside backing, Buiter said.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greece climbed 14 basis points to
724, according to CMA DataVision prices. Contracts on Portugal
rose 11 basis points to 322 and Spain increased 7 to 195 on
concern they are vulnerable to contagion from the Greek crisis.  
 Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        