-- Greece's Debt Cut to Junk, First for Euro Member
-- Andrew Davis
-- 2010-04-27T19:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/greek-debt-cut-to-junk-at-s-p.html

          
          
             Greece’s credit rating was cut
three steps to junk by Standard and Poor’s, the first time a
euro member has lost its investment grade since the currency’s
1999 debut. The euro weakened and stock markets throughout the
region plunged.  
 Greece was lowered to BB+ from BBB+ by S&P, which also
warned that bondholders could recover as little as 30 percent of
their initial investment if the country restructures its debt.
The move, which puts Greek debt on a par with bonds issued by
Azerbaijan and Egypt, came minutes after the rating company
reduced Portugal by two steps to A- from A+.  
 The turmoil comes as European Union policy makers struggle
to agree on measures to ease the panic over swelling budget
deficits. Leaders of the 16 euro nations may hold a summit after
the Greek government’s decision last week to tap a 45 billion-
euro ($60 billion) emergency-aid package failed to reassure
investors, a European diplomat and Spanish official said.  
 “The markets are demanding their pound of flesh and want
everything to be signed, sealed and delivered as of yesterday,”
said David Owen, chief European financial economist at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London.  
 The euro fell 1.3 percent to $1.3215 as of 2:58 p.m. in New
York. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 3.1 percent to 261.65
points.  
 Spreads  
 The spread on Greek 10-year bonds over German counterparts
widened 23 basis points to 675 basis points, the highest since
at least 1998, as investors increased bets that Greece will
restructure its debt. The Portuguese spread jumped 59 basis
points to 277 basis points, and the Spanish spread rose 12 basis
points to 113.  
 “This is no longer a problem about Greece or Portugal, but
about the euro system,” Eric Fine, who manages Van’s Eck’s G-
175 Strategies emerging-market hedge fund. “My concern is the
risk of coordination failure. Policy makers need to get ahead of
the curve.”  
 The crisis worsened this week as German Chancellor Angela
Merkel’s government delays a decision on whether to release
funds for a Greek rescue. Merkel, who faces an election in the
state of North Rhine-Westphalia on May 9, said yesterday that
Greece “must do its homework” before getting aid.  
 Trichet Mission  
 European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet, who is
in Chicago today and declined to comment on the downgrades,
travels to Berlin tomorrow to brief German lawmakers on Greece’s
deficit-cutting plans. The country is struggling to convince
investors it can push its deficit below the EU’s limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product from 13.6 percent last year.  
 “No one in Europe is suggesting” that “the total amount
of financing on the table is going to cover all of Greece’s
borrowing needs” over the next three years, said David Beers,
Global Head of Sovereign and International Public Finance
Ratings, at S&P today.  
 Greek bonds are still eligible as collateral at the ECB, as
long as the other two rating companies don’t follow suit.
Moody’s Investors Service rates Greece A3 and Fitch Ratings 
BBB-.  
 The EU’s inability to contain the Greek crisis is sparking
concern that other countries will have to fend for themselves
and will struggle to win support from European parliaments.
Portugal’s PSI-20 benchmark dropped 5.4 percent today, the most
since the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse.
Spain’s IBEX 35 Index dropped 4.2 percent.  
 Contagion  
 “There is a clear risk that contagion pressures might
intensify in the coming months, perhaps after a brief respite
immediately after the Greek package is finalized and money
starts being disbursed,” said Marco Annunziata, chief European
economist at UniCredit Group in London.  
 Merkel said yesterday she expects a German decision in
“days.” Greece faces 8.5 billion euros of bonds maturing in
May, with the first redemption due May 19.  
 Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos
said today his government needs to react to “attacks by
markets” and will do what’s needed to reduce its deficit.  
 Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou asked for emergency
cash from the EU and International Monetary Fund last week to
avoid defaulting on its debt. Investors in Greek bonds may get
back between 30 percent and 50 percent of the value of their
holdings should the government default or restructure its debt,
said S&P.  
 “The financial package has clearly not eased market
concerns,” said Colin Ellis, European economist at Daiwa
Capital Europe Ltd. in London. The Greek downgrade “together
with Portugal and the widening of spreads means that other euro-
area countries appear to be sliding to a similar fate.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net 
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, speaks at a press conference following the European Union Summit in Brussels, on March 26, 2010. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg columnist Matthew Lynn talks with Andrea Catherwood about the risk of default on Greek government bonds after the European Union and the International Monetary Fund aid package was activated. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Thomas Herrmann, a global economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about the prospect of Greece's debt crisis spreading to other euro-zone nations.
     Herrmann, speaking in Zurich, also discusses the delivery of the emergency aid package requested by Greece. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Constance Hunter, chief economist at Galtere International, talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller and Carol Massar about potential aid packages for Greece.
     German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she won’t release Greek rescue funds until the country shows it’s got a "sustainable, credible" plan to cut its budget deficit. A decision may be in a "few days," she said. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
