-- Greek, Portuguese Bonds Drop as S&P Cuts Debt Ratings
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-04-27T16:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/greek-bond-yields-stay-near-highest-in-12-years-amid-debt-default-concern.html

          
          
             Government bonds of the euro
region’s most indebted nations slumped, led by the biggest drop
for Greek two-year notes since at least 1998, as credit
downgrades escalated Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  
 Portuguese, Spanish, Irish and Italian securities plunged
and German debt rallied as investors sought safer assets after
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services cut Greece three levels to
BB+, or junk, and lowered Portugal two steps to A-. Greek notes
slid earlier as concern deepened that the nation will ask
investors to accept delayed or reduced debt payments.  
 “We’re entering into a phase of blind panic,” said
Orlando Green, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Agricole
CIB in London. “Given the inaction of the euro nations to back
Greece and to get things done quickly, we’ve found now this
inaction has been a big obstacle. That’s not satisfying for the
markets, and not for S&P either; hence, the downgrade.”  
 The yield on the Greek benchmark two-year note rose 478
basis points to 18.71 percent as of 4:51 p.m. in London. The 4.3
percent security due March 2012 fell 6.20, or 62 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,326) face amount, to 78.67. The yield on the 10-
year bond climbed 69 basis points to 10.29 percent. The yields
are the most since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1998.  
 Portuguese two-year note yields jumped 117 basis points to
5.36 percent and Ireland’s two-year note yield rose 75 basis
points to 3.93 percent.  
 Italian two-year notes slumped, pushing the yield up 31
basis points to 1.82 percent, the most since February. The yield
on Spanish two-year notes rose 15 basis points to 2.11 percent.  
 The yield on the two-year German note fell to a record-low
0.77 percent. The yield on the 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark
government security, dropped 11 basis points to 2.94 percent.  
 “The biggest risk now is that the market speculates
against every single indebted peripheral country, and that could
lead to a sovereign debt crisis,” said Axel Botte, a strategist
at AXA Investment Managers in Paris. “The contagion risk is
real. It’s much easier to bail out a bank than to bail out a
country.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg columnist Matthew Lynn talks with Andrea Catherwood about the risk of default on Greek government bonds after the European Union and the International Monetary Fund aid package was activated. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Thomas Herrmann, a global economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about the prospect of Greece's debt crisis spreading to other euro-zone nations.
     Herrmann, speaking in Zurich, also discusses the delivery of the emergency aid package requested by Greece. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Constance Hunter, chief economist at Galtere International, talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller and Carol Massar about potential aid packages for Greece.
     German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she won’t release Greek rescue funds until the country shows it’s got a "sustainable, credible" plan to cut its budget deficit. A decision may be in a "few days," she said. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
