-- Greek Banks to Face Mounting Pressure as S&P Lowers Credit Ratings to Junk
-- Niklas Magnusson
-- 2010-04-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/greek-banks-to-face-mounting-pressure-as-s-p-lowers-credit-ratings-to-junk.html

          
          
             Greek banks, the worst performing
shares on Bloomberg’s European banking index this year, may face
further declines after Standard & Poor’s cut their credit
ratings to junk on concern over Greece’s funding crisis.  
 National Bank of Greece SA, the largest Greek lender, fell
10 percent in Athens trading before the cut was announced
yesterday, bringing the slide this year to 45 percent, the worst
on the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA lost 5.4 percent yesterday, while Alpha
Bank SA fell 12 percent and Piraeus Bank SA sank 9.4 percent.  
 S&P, which also lowered Greece’s sovereign rating to junk,
said the banks are at risk from the country’s “deteriorating
credit quality” because of their holdings of government debt.
Their asset quality and profitability will remain under pressure
as the economy contracts and drives up loan losses, S&P said.  
 “The deteriorating economic conditions that we expect
through 2010 are likely to lead to tougher operating conditions
than those that we had previously incorporated into our ratings
on Greek banks,” S&P said.  
 Greece’s economic crisis has raised funding costs for Greek
banks and forced them to borrow from the European Central Bank
rather than in the market. The ECB said March 25 it would extend
emergency lending rules, adding that Greek bonds won’t be cut
off from ECB refinancing operations next year. The bank had been
scheduled to reintroduce pre-crisis rules at the end of 2010.  
 ECB Borrowing  
 “Although Greek banks currently maintain cushions in the
form of liquid assets and have access to an ECB facility, we
believe that imbalances in their respective funding profiles are
likely to remain throughout 2010 if access to wholesale funding
remains closed to all of them and the liquidity cushions and
unencumbered assets required under the ECB facility are
gradually used up,” S&P said in the statement.  
 S&P lowered the long-term counterparty credit rating on
National Bank three steps to BB+, the highest junk rating, from
BBB+ and the short-term counterparty credit rating two steps to
B from A-2, it said in a statement. Eurobank, Alpha Bank and
Piraeus all had their long-term ratings cut three levels to BB
from BBB and their short-term ratings to B from A-2. The outlook
for all the long-term ratings is negative, S&P said.  
 Greek banks probably get most of their short-term funding
from the ECB, using mainly Greek sovereign debt as collateral,
Citigroup Inc. Chief Economist Willem Buiter wrote in an April
26 report. When the value of the debt falls in the secondary
market, the decline in the mark-to-market value of the
collateral may prompt demands for more collateral, said Buiter.  
 Damaged Collateral  
 “Eventually the Greek banks could run out of additional
collateral acceptable to the ECB/Eurosystem,” Buiter said.
“Their funding needs are likely to be exacerbated by a
withdrawal of deposits that could become a run.”  
 If Greece’s lenders run out of collateral and suffer an
outflow of deposits, the ECB would have “to reduce the minimum
quality threshold on securities acceptable as collateral,
currently BBB- or the equivalent, or refuse to lend to the Greek
banks,” Buiter said. That would spark “a funding crisis and
possible bank failures,” the Citigroup economist said.  
 The banks are still able to borrow from the ECB using Greek
government bonds as collateral, as the sovereign debt is still
rated investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings.  
 Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou was forced last week
to activate a 45 billion-euro ($60 billion) package of emergency
loans from the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund, after Greece’s soaring borrowing costs made it difficult
to finance its debt in the markets. Standard & Poor’s on April
27 lowered its long- and short-term sovereign credit ratings on
Greece to BB+ and B, respectively, from BBB+ and A-2.  
 ‘Real Facts’  
 Greece said the downgrade of its sovereign rating doesn’t
reflect the “real facts” of the economy, according to an e-mail
from the country’s finance ministry.  
 Greek lenders will tap funds remaining in the state’s 28
billion-euro ($37 billion) stimulus plan to increase capital
levels, Greece said on April 7. National Bank, Eurobank, Alpha
and Piraeus are still rated investment grade by Moody’s.  
 The Greek banking system “remains stable and with the
required liquidity,” Greece’s finance ministry said yesterday.
“It continues to have the ability to raise all its required
liquidity from the ECB.”  
 Investors in Greek bonds may get back between 30 percent
and 50 percent of the value of their holdings should the
government default or restructure its debt, said S&P.  
 “National Bank’s government bond portfolio is a big
problem, as a default by Greece is not unlikely,” Alain Dupuis,
chief banking analyst at Oddo Securities, said in a telephone
interview from Paris yesterday.  
 National Bank’s 25 billion-euro fixed-income portfolio
consists of 17.9 billion euros of Hellenic Republic instruments,
according to the bank’s fourth-quarter earnings presentation.
The bank’s total assets stood at 113.4 billion euros on Dec. 31.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A sign hangs on the entrance to the headquarters of the National Bank of Greece SA in Athens, Greece, on Jan. 5, 2010. Photographer: Yannis Kontos/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
