-- High-Yield Bond Pioneer Shenkman Says Debt Has More Room to Run on Demand
-- Gabrielle Coppola
-- 2010-04-27T11:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/high-yield-bond-pioneer-shenkman-says-debt-has-more-room-to-run-on-demand.html

          
          
             Mark Shenkman, president and chief
investment officer of Shenkman Capital Management Inc. in New
York, comments on the performance of high-yield, high-risk
bonds. Debt rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and 
lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s has rallied 7.1 percent this
year, following a 57.5 percent gain in 2009, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data.  
 Shenkman, who became the first high-yield bond portfolio
manager at Fidelity Investments in 1977, spoke with investors at
the Milken Institute Global Conference yesterday in Beverly
Hills, California.  
 On demand for high-yield bonds:  
 “The quest for current yield is exceptionally strong. A
well diversified high-yield portfolio still yields 7.25 percent
to 7.75 percent. So in a low interest-rate environment, high-
yield bonds still look very compelling.”  
 On speculative-grade relative yields:  
 “The average high-yield spread has been about 500 basis
points, so we could still see another 100 basis points of
narrowing. With demand and liquidity, there’s no reason why
spreads couldn’t get down to 400 basis points over Treasuries.”  
 On high-yield bond issuance:  
 “New issue prices and structures now are favoring the
issuer.  
 It was a buyers’ market for most of last year. Now clearly
it is a sellers’ market, because the deal structures are getting
weaker, pricing’s getting tighter and every deal is
oversubscribed.”  
 On leveraged buyout companies refinancing debt:  
 “Many of these mega-LBO’s, I like to call them, ‘Delay,
and pray,’ because they still have a long way to go to raise
additional capital to pay off those maturities.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        