-- Raise Taxes, Cut Spending to Close Deficit, Ex-Leaders Say
-- Peter S. Green
-- 2010-04-27T18:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/higher-taxes-spending-cuts-said-the-only-way-to-avoid-another-u-s-crisis.html

          
          
             The U.S. must raise taxes and cut
spending or it will face another financial crisis within the
next decade, according to a survey of more than 50 former top
economic officials and congressional leaders from both parties.  
 Sixty-eight percent of Republicans and 88 percent of
Democrats said both strategies are needed to solve the country’s
long-term structural deficits, according to the survey by the
New York-based Peter G. Peterson Foundation. The group works to
focus public attention on the U.S.’s key fiscal challenges and
stimulate action to address them.  
 “Addressing our fiscal challenges will require being open-
minded about solutions and taking a comprehensive approach in
which all options are seriously considered,” Peterson said in a
statement. He is a co-founder with Stephen Schwarzman of New
York-based Blackstone Group LP, the world’s biggest private-
equity company.  
 The survey was released before the start of a meeting in
Washington on a bipartisan effort to meet the U.S.’s fiscal
challenges, the statement said.  
 The U.S. federal budget deficit is forecast to reach a
record $1.6 trillion in fiscal 2010, which ends in September,
representing 10.6 percent of U.S. gross domestic product and
making it the biggest by that measure since World War II. The
deficit is projected at $1.3 trillion for fiscal 2011, according
to a proposed budget submitted to Congress by President Barack
Obama.  
 The foundation surveyed former Treasury secretaries,
Federal Reserve presidents and governors, Congressional Budget
Office directors and senior congressional leaders. It found
consensus across party lines.  
 Unsustainable Path  
 All the Democrats and Republicans surveyed said the federal
government is currently on an unsustainable long-term fiscal
path and that long-term deficits are more threatening to the
country’s economic future than short-term ones.  
 Ninety-eight percent of Republicans and 94 percent of
Democrats said that unless the U.S. acts soon to address the
nation’s long-term fiscal situation, it will face another major
economic crisis. Eighty-eight percent of Republicans and 75
percent of Democrats said they expect another economic crisis
within 10 years, if no action is taken to reduce the deficit.  
 The government needs to start addressing the long-term
fiscal situation within the next one to two years, according to
92 percent of Republicans and 82 percent of Democrats.  
 Living standards will decline, interest rates will rise
significantly and mandatory federal spending will crowd out
other important public investments, the respondents said.  
 ‘Open-Minded’ Approach  
 Democrats and Republicans share an “open-minded” approach
to reform measures, according to the statement accompanying the
survey results. All Democrats said entitlement reform and
overall spending cuts should be considered, and 94 percent said
a significant decrease in discretionary spending should be
seriously looked at in a debt-reduction plan.  
 Among Republicans, 72 percent said tax increases should be
seriously considered and 56 percent said significant decreases
in defense spending should be seriously considered.  
 The survey respondents polled were former senior officials
from the past eight administrations under Presidents George W.
Bush, Bill Clinton, George H.W. Bush, Ronald Reagan, Jimmy
Carter, Gerald Ford, Richard Nixon, and Lyndon Johnson, as well
as members of Congress, with significant experience on fiscal
issues, the statement said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Peter "Pete" Peterson, billionaire philanthropist and co-founder of Blackstone Group LP, speaks during an editorial board meeting in New York, on Oct. 28, 2009. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
