-- Tebow Sets Jersey Sales Record for NFL Draftee
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-04-27T13:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/tim-tebow-sets-jersey-sales-record-for-nfl-draftee-topping-jets-sanchez.html

          
          
             Tim Tebow already has surpassed one
of the records Mark Sanchez set as a rookie quarterback with the
New York Jets last season.  
 A first-round pick of the Denver Broncos, Tebow sold more
jerseys during the National Football League’s draft weekend than
any other rookie or current player.  
 While the league doesn’t disclose sales totals, the former
University of Florida quarterback logged the most jersey orders
since 2006, the first year NFLShop.com joined with GSI Commerce
Inc. to expand its online store. Tebow’s sales totals eclipsed
the previous draft-weekend record of Sanchez, who in 2009 was
the first quarterback taken by the Jets with a top-five pick
since Joe Namath.  
 “It’s a pretty substantial difference between him and the
next guy,” NFL spokeswoman Joanna Hunter said of Tebow’s jersey
sales.  
 A distant second to Tebow in sales from April 22-25 was
defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh of the Detroit Lions.  
 Quarterback Sam Bradford, who was the No. 1 overall pick of
the St. Louis Rams, was third in rookie jersey sales, followed
by Kansas City Chiefs safety Eric Berry and Dallas Cowboys wide
receiver Dez Bryant.  
 Tebow was the second quarterback taken, going 25th to the
Broncos after winning two national championships at Florida as
well as the 2008 Heisman Trophy as college football’s best
player. Teams passed on him until late in the first round
because of needs at other positions or questions about his arm
strength and unorthodox throwing motion.  
 Tebow on Doubters  
 Tebow said those who doubt he’ll be able to make the
transition from college to the NFL add “fuel to the fire.”  
 “I love it when someone tells me that I can’t, because it
just pushes me that much more to accomplish that goal,” Tebow
told reporters. “I am excited about this challenge of playing
in the NFL and trying to be an NFL quarterback.”  
 Sanchez led the Jets to the American Football Conference
championship game as a rookie and finished 13th for the season
in sales of his No. 6 jersey.  
 Tebow selected No. 15, the same number he wore at Florida.
That number became available when receiver Brandon Marshall was
traded by Denver two weeks ago. While NFL playing time has yet
to be determined, Tebow already has his believers, having topped
Sanchez as well as the initial jersey sales of popular 2006
rookies Reggie Bush and Vince Young.  
 “Tebow trumped all of them,” Hunter said in a telephone
interview. “So he’s off to a strong start.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tim Tebow  
                       
                         
                           Doug Pensinger/Getty Images 
                         
                         Tim Tebow is introduced by the Denver Broncos at a press conference at the Broncos Headquarters in Dove Valley on April 23, 2010 in Englewood, Colorado. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tim Tebow is introduced by the Denver Broncos at a press conference at the Broncos Headquarters in Dove Valley on April 23, 2010 in Englewood, Colorado. Photographer: Doug Pensinger/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Michele Steele reports on the first round of the National Football League draft. 
     Sam Bradford from the University of Oklahoma was selected by the St. Louis Rams with the No. 1 overall pick last night, while Tim Tebow was picked by the Denver Broncos with the 25th overall selection.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
