-- Senate Unclear on Walling Off Banks' Swaps Desks
-- Alan Bjerga
-- 2010-04-27T18:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/lincoln-unsure-plan-to-wall-off-banks-swap-trading-desks-will-pass-senate.html

          
          
             Senator Blanche Lincoln said she
isn’t sure her plan to make banks wall off their swaps-trading
desks has enough support to become part of financial-regulatory
overhaul, while calling the provision effective change.  
 “It’s important to have that transparency,” the Arkansas
Democrat said today of her proposal to revamp the $605 trillion
derivatives market at a conference of farm-policy writers in
Washington. “I’m happy to work with people who have concerns.”  
 Senate Democrats reached agreement yesterday on a
derivatives measure to be included in their financial-regulation
bill, which includes Lincoln’s provision to require commercial
banks to wall off their swaps-trading desks. The measure also
would require mandatory clearing and exchange trading for
standardized derivative products and impose a fiduciary duty on
banks that trade derivatives with municipalities.  
 “I don’t know if I have the votes” for the provision,
Lincoln said today. When the measure comes to the floor for
debate, senators could vote to remove her plan, Lincoln said.  
 Senators from both parties, including Democrats Kirsten
Gillibrand of New York and Mark Warner of Virginia, have said
Lincoln’s measure may go too far in barring swaps dealers from
bank privileges such as access to the Federal Reserve’s discount
lending window, emergency liquidity functions and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.’s deposit guarantee.  
 Grassley’s Support  
 The measure also has attracted bipartisan support, with
Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, voting for the measure
when it was before the Senate Agriculture Committee.  
 The agriculture committees play a role in writing
derivatives legislation because they oversee the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, which would get expanded authority
to regulate transactions now done over the counter under both
Senate plans as well as a measure the House of Representatives
passed last year.  
 Lincoln’s plan would also push over-the-counter
transactions onto central clearinghouses and require traders to
post margin deposits. A provision in the bill known as the
“end-user exemption” is of concern to companies that use
derivatives to hedge their risks in commodities, currencies and
interest rates.  
 CFTC Chief Gary Gensler in January said the House end-user
exemption could permit up to 60 percent of standard transactions
to escape new rules. Industry groups have argued that end-user
transactions make up less than 15 percent of the standard
market.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        