-- India's Greenhouse-Gas Reductions After 2020 May Hurt Growth, Study Says
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-04-27T13:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/india-s-greenhouse-gas-reductions-after-2020-may-hurt-growth-study-says.html

          
          
             India’s efforts to reduce emissions
blamed for global warming after 2020 may hurt the expansion of
the world’s second-fastest growing major economy because of
limited technology options and high costs, according to a study.  
 Indian industry is more efficient in energy use than widely
believed and options to cut emissions after 2020 are few,
difficult and very expensive, the Centre for Science and
Environment, a research organization based in New Delhi, said in
a statement today.  
 “There is a perception that India’s rising greenhouse gas
emissions are due to an inefficient industry,” Chandra Bhushan,
the study’s author and associate director at the center, said in
the statement. “The study tells us that it is not true.”  
 India, the world’s fourth-largest emitter of greenhouse
gases, has rejected binding emission-cut targets, saying
industrial growth would be hampered. The South Asian nation has
instead committed to reducing emissions intensity, or the amount
of carbon dioxide released per unit of gross domestic product,
by as much as 25 percent from 2005 levels by 2020.  
 The center studied the power, steel, cement, aluminum,
fertilizer and paper industries, which together account for more
than 60 percent of India’s emissions of carbon dioxide, the main
heat-trapping gas blamed by scientists for climate change.  
 The study found the power, aluminum and cement industries
already operate more efficiently than the global average and
that significant improvements are expected in the fertilizer and
paper sectors. Steel will remain a problem as the industry
switches to a process called sponge iron in which emissions
efficiency gains are few, according to the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        