-- Indian Oil, ONGC Set to Get Acquisition `Firepower' to Compete With China
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-04-27T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/indian-oil-ongc-set-to-get-acquisition-firepower-to-compete-with-china.html

          
          
             Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India’s
biggest explorer, and Indian Oil Corp. are set to get approval
from the government to spend five times more on acquisitions,
giving them greater freedom to compete with China for assets.  
 NTPC Ltd. and Steel Authority of India Ltd. are also
expected to be permitted to make 50-billion-rupee ($1.1 billion)
takeovers without government clearance, Bhaskar Chatterjee,
secretary in the Department of Public Enterprises said in an
interview. The state-run companies, which can now invest 10
billion rupees, may get the higher limit in three weeks, he said.  
 “This gives us more firepower,” R.S. Sharma, chairman and
managing director at New Delhi-based ONGC, said by telephone
yesterday. “This will give us some strength.”  
 Indian companies are competing with Chinese competitors for
energy assets to meet demand in the world’s two most populous
nations. State-run Chinese companies spent a record $32 billion
last year acquiring resources overseas while a $2.1 billion
purchase by ONGC was the sole energy investment by India.  
 “This will help speed up decision making, which has been a
reason for deals falling through,” Jagannadham Thunuguntla,
chief strategist at SMC Capitals Ltd. in New Delhi, said by
telephone yesterday. “It is a step in the right direction and
the government needs to continue giving them more freedom.”  
 Highest Ranking  
 The four companies will be permitted to spend more under a
government classification system that will accord them so-called
“maharatna” status, or the highest ranking for state-run
enterprises.  
 India’s cabinet approved maharatna, which means mega jewel
in Hindi, on Dec. 24, without naming the companies. State-run
enterprises must have annual revenue of 250 billion rupees and
profit of at least 50 billion rupees in the past three years to
be considered for the status.  
 “Being a maharatna company will help us to get mines
abroad quicker,” R.S. Sharma, chairman and managing director of
NTPC, said by telephone. “We will get certain strategic
advantages.”  
 Steel Authority spokesman R.K. Singhal did not answer calls
to his mobile phone and Indian Oil Chairman B.M. Bansal didn’t
immediately comment.  
 China Petrochemical Corp. agreed to pay ConocoPhillips
$4.65 billion for its stake in Syncrude Canada Ltd., a tar-sands
producer, capping $64 billion of spending on resources since
2005.  
 Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil explorer, agreed
to buy half of Argentina’s Bridas Corp. on March 14 for $3.1
billion, its biggest purchase. Cnooc bought a stake in a
Nigerian oil field in 2006 after India’s government blocked
ONGC’s plan to do the same.  
 Sovereign Fund  
 “China’s economy is much bigger than us and that helps
them buy assets,” Chatterjee said. “Once our companies get the
maharatna status we can certainly attempt to take them on.”  
 India’s oil ministry has proposed creating a sovereign
wealth fund using the nation’s $256 billion foreign exchange
reserves to buy energy assets overseas. China has reserves of
$2.5 trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The ministry has ordered ONGC and Oil India Ltd., the
second-biggest state explorer, to acquire at least one big asset
each in the year ending March 31, S. Sundareshan, the senior-
most bureaucrat in the ministry, said March 18.  
 Indian Oil, the country’s second-biggest refiner, and Oil
India made a $580 million bid for London-based Gulfsands
Petroleum Plc last month that was rejected. ONGC is seeking to
buy oil-sands assets in Canada, three people familiar with the
matter said March 25.  
 The government may sell a stake in Indian Oil by March
31, Sidhartha Pradhan, joint secretary in the department of
disinvestment, said yesterday. India plans to raise a record 400
billion rupees ($9 billion) from asset sales this financial year
and use the proceeds to reduce its budget deficit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     R.S. Sharma, chairman and managing director of Oil & Natural Gas Corp., (ONGC), speaks to the media during the World Economic Forum's India Economic Summit in New Delhi, on Nov. 9, 2009. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
