-- Mine Enforcement `Broken,' U.S. Regulator Main Tells Senate After Deaths
-- Holly Rosenkrantz
-- 2010-04-27T16:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/mine-enforcement-broken-u-s-regulator-main-tells-senate-after-deaths.html

          
          
             A U.S. mine-safety system that let
companies avoid civil penalties by appealing citations is
“broken and must be fixed,” the administrator of the mining
agency said in Senate testimony today.  
 The Mine Safety and Health Administration will simplify the
process for elevating enforcement at mines that have the most
serious safety flaws, Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine
Safety and Health Joe Main said in remarks prepared for a Senate
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions subcommittee. The
department will ask Congress to require that operators pay their
fines into an escrow account while appeals are heard, Main said.  
 “We realize the current ‘pattern of violations’ program is
broken and must be fixed,” Main said. “It is too easy for mine
operators to evade responsibility and too hard for the
government to hold bad actors accountable.”  
 Lawmakers and regulators are reviewing mine safety after 29
workers died at Massey Energy Co.’s Upper Big Branch Mine in
Montcoal, West Virginia, in an April 5 blast, the worst U.S.
mining explosion in 40 years, according to the National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.  
 No changes are needed because the Main’s agency has
sufficient legal authority to shut down mines with safety
issues, Bruce Watzman, the National Mining Association’s senior
vice president of regulatory affairs, said in his prepared
remarks.  
 The agency has legal tools in addition to declaring that a
mine has a “pattern of violations,” such as declaring an
“imminent danger” at the site, Watzman said. A backlog of
contested company safety citations can be resolved by adding
resources to the commission that hears the appeals, he said.  
 ‘Corners Cut’  
 Mine-safety challenges have persisted for decades, United
Mine Workers of America President Cecil Roberts said in prepared
remarks. Mining companies are responsible for safety, yet
“corners are frequently cut,” Roberts said.  
 “I have been here repeatedly, and my predecessors before
me, to complain about the terrible conditions miners endure when
operators don’t follow the law and miners are killed as a
result,” Roberts said.  
 Safety violations at the Upper Big Branch Mine were
routine, including buildups of poisonous gas so thick “you
could hardly see in front of you,” former Massey employee
Jeffrey Harris said in prepared remarks.  
 “If we had heard that there was too much gas, we’d be told
the problem was taken care of and not to worry,” said Harris, a
Beckley, West Virginia, coal miner. “When an inspector came by,
he would find excess gas and shut us down. This showed us that
the company couldn’t be trusted.”  
 Massey’s Record  
 “Clearly, something went wrong” at the West Virginia
mine, the company said yesterday in a statement. “We simply
don’t yet know what it was. If there was improper conduct
regarding operations and safety, there will be accountability.
What we do know is this: Accusations that Massey Energy
is indifferent to safety could not be more wrong.”  
 A “catch-me-if-you-can” model of safety appears to have
been at work at Massey’s mine, Main said in his testimony. No
level of workplace fatalities is acceptable to the Obama
administration, he said.  
 “Workplace fatalities -- even in an industry like
underground coal mining -- are preventable,” Main said. “No
one should die for a paycheck.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomber.net ;
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Massey Energy Co. flag flies at half-staff next to the U.S. flag at the company headquarters in Richmond, Virginia on April 6, 2010. Photographer: Thurston Howes/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 6 (Bloomberg) -- An explosion at a coal mine in West Virginia killed 25 workers and left four missing, said Massey Energy Co., the owner of the pit. The disaster was the worst of its kind since 1984. Bloomberg's Peter Cook reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
