-- Infigen Energy Shares Slump After Sale of U.S. Wind Assets Is Scrapped
-- James Paton
-- 2010-04-27T07:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/infigen-slumps-in-sydney-after-ending-process-to-sell-its-u-s-wind-assets.html

          
          
             Infigen Energy, the Australian wind
power producer formerly known as Babcock & Brown Wind Partners,
fell the most in 18 months in Sydney trading after scrapping a
plan to sell its U.S. business because the bids were too low.  
 Infigen shares slumped 15 percent to A$1.03 at the market’s
close, the most since Oct. 10, 2008, while the S&P/ASX 200 Index
was little changed.  
 Declining U.S. gas and electricity prices, legislative
uncertainty following the Copenhagen climate change talks in
December and adverse weather conditions hampered the sale,
Sydney-based Infigen said in a statement today. Infigen had
pursued the sale to help fund expansion in Australia and said
last year the assets may be worth about $2.2 billion.  
 “The purpose was to accelerate growth in the Australian
development pipeline,” Managing Director Miles George said in a
call with analysts today. “There’s no change to the fundamental
strategy. We have the capital to fund those projects that we
intend to build in 2010 and 2011, so we’re not constrained. The
only change now is we won’t be accelerating that development.”  
 Infigen has A$170 million ($157 million) of cash to support
the building of Australian wind farms in the 2010 and 2011
financial years, it said. The company has no plans to expand its
asset base in the U.S., George said.  
 While Infigen doesn’t rule out a sale of the U.S. wind
business “down the track,” the company isn’t planning such a
transaction now as it concentrates on the Australian market,
George said. The role of wind power in Australia’s electricity
generation may increase more than fivefold by 2020, he said.  
 Under the Australian government’s revised plan to spur
investment in clean technologies, large projects such as wind
farms would deliver most of the national target of deriving 20
percent of power from renewable energy by 2020.  
 At the Copenhagen summit, 190 countries failed to agree on
a binding treaty to curb emissions. U.S. senators are weighing
legislation to tackle climate change after Republican Senator
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina pulled out of negotiations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        