-- Lions Gate's Poison Pill Has 61% Support So Far, Vice Chairman Burns Says
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-04-27T14:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/lions-gate-s-poison-pill-has-61-support-so-far-vice-chairman-burns-says.html

          
          
             Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.’s
so-called poison pill has the support of 61 percent of
shareholders with about two-thirds of votes cast, Vice Chairman
Michael Burns said.  
 Proxies representing 74.6 million shares have been
submitted, Burns said yesterday in testimony to the British
Columbia Securities Commission. He said 42 million shares remain
to be voted before the May 4 meeting.  
 Investor Carl Icahn, who has made a hostile tender offer
for the independent film studio and owns 22 million shares, is
asking the commission to void the poison pill. The tally so far
illustrates the obstacles to Icahn gaining investor support for
his effort to void the shareholder-rights plan, which would make
his $7 a share bid more costly.  
 “There’ll probably be a lot of unhappy shareholders” if
the poison pill is allowed to stay because Icahn probably won’t
extend the offer, Keith Schaitkin, deputy general counsel at
Icahn Enterprises Ltd. Partnership, testified before the three-
member panel of the commission. “I think Mr. Icahn is opposed
to poison pills in all their forms.”  
 Icahn argues the poison pill was enacted by the board
without prior shareholder approval. A victory would make it
easier for Icahn to attract votes for his tender offer, which
expires April 30. A decision favoring the company would bolster
Lions Gate’s defense by allowing the vote to count.  
 The pill, which entitles shareholders to buy more stock at
a discount, was implemented by Lions Gate’s board as a
“tactical” move against Icahn’s bid, said Mark Gelowitz,
Icahn’s lawyer.  
 Shareholders’ Interests  
 Securities regulators across Canada, including British
Columbia, have made it clear that rights plans adopted without
prior shareholder approval won’t generally be found in the best
interests of the shareholders, Gelowitz told the panel.  
 “The time comes eventually for any poison pill when it
must go,” Gelowitz said. “It cannot be used simply as a means
to block a bid. It can’t be used to just say ‘no.’”  
 Icahn, who owns almost 19 percent of Lions Gate, is
offering about $826 million for the maker of the “Saw” and
“Tyler Perry” movies.  
 “That is a bad price,” Burns testified.  
 Icahn can extend his offer past the voting day because he
still hasn’t won approval for the purchase from the Canadian
government, said Jessica Kimmel, Lions Gate’s lawyer.  
 Icahn deliberately set a deadline two business days before
the scheduled vote in a bid to pre-empt it, Kimmel told the
panel.  
 Hostile Bidders  
 A ruling in Icahn’s favor will send a message to all
hostile bidders that it’s an acceptable practice in Canada,
Kimmel said.  
 The acquisition must be approved by Canadian Heritage, a
government department that oversees the country’s arts and
cultural industries.  
 “We’re in advanced discussions with Heritage Canada,”
Schaitkin said. “They’re going very well.”  
 Icahn, the 74-year-old investor, is up against board
members and allies who control more than 30 percent of Lions
Gate shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Mark Rachesky, co-founder of MHR Fund Management LLC, is a
former Icahn associate who joined the board in July. He holds
23.2 million shares, or 19.7 percent, and said in a March 2009
filing that he is “principally supportive” of management.  
 ‘Nothing Productive’  
 Los Angeles-based Capital Group Cos. owns 12.3 million
shares, or 10.4 percent, and fund manager Gordon Crawford called
Lions Gate a “very well-run company” in an April 6 story in
the Los Angeles Times. “All Carl is doing is running up legal
bills, distracting management and doing nothing productive for
shareholders,” the newspaper quoted Crawford as saying.  
 The studio, run from Santa Monica, California, amended the
poison pill on April 23, allowing Icahn to vote his stake
against the plan at the May 4 shareholder meeting, on the
recommendation of a board committee and company advisers.  
 Lions Gate fell 10 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $6.89 at 10:12
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
had gained 20 percent this year before today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Vancouver at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
