-- Lions Gate Poison Pill Annulled by British Columbia Securities Commission
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-04-28T01:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/lions-gate-icahn-play-chicken-on-poison-pill-lawyers-say-at-hearing.html

          
          
             Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.’s
poison pill, designed to deter the hostile takeover bid by U.S.
investor Carl Icahn, was voided by Canadian regulators.  
 Lions Gate shareholders were scheduled to vote on the
poison pill on May 4. British Columbia Securities Commission
Panel Chairman Brent Aitken, who issued the ruling today, said
reasons for the decision would follow.  
 The decision removes one impediment to Icahn’s $7-a-share
tender offer, which values the company at $826 million. The pill
would have made a takeover more expensive. Voting so far on the
shareholder rights plan was running 61 percent in favor, Vice
Chairman Michael Burns testified yesterday before the commission
in Vancouver.  
 If Icahn doesn’t attract enough votes for his tender offer
by the April 30 deadline, he may extend it, Icahn’s deputy
counsel, Keith Schaitkin, testified yesterday.  
 “Icahn goes forward and tries to buy the firm,” said Alan
Gould, an analyst with Soleil Securities in New York. “To get
over 50 percent of the company, he clearly has to go over $7 a
share.”  
 Gould rates the shares “buy” and doesn’t own them.  
 Icahn has made it clear he wants to gain control of the
company by acquiring more than 50 percent of the shares, said
his lawyer, Mark Gelowitz, in his closing statement to the
commission today.  
 Icahn’s Shares  
 “If you wanted to buy 29 percent of the company, you
wouldn’t offer to buy all the shares,” he said. “That’s a
pretty expensive way to get 29 percent.”  
 Icahn owns almost 19 percent of Lions Gate, the maker of
the “Saw” and “Tyler Perry” movies. The poison pill would
have allowed shareholders to buy more stock at a discount if
Icahn gained a 20 percent stake in the company.  
 Lions Gate, based in Vancouver, urged shareholders not to
sell their stock and said it may appeal the commission’s ruling.
The vote will go ahead on May 4, the company, which operates
from Santa Monica, California, said in a statement.  
 Icahn said in a separate statement that he was
“gratified” by the commission’s ruling.  
 The panel’s decision was issued after a 1 1/2 day hearing
during which Icahn’s lawyers urged the commission to void the
poison pill and Lions Gate’s lawyer pressed for a ruling
allowing the shareholder vote to go ahead.  
 The panel followed recommendations from its own lawyers,
who said the poison pill would deprive the shareholders from
responding to a legal offer.  
 The company should make sure the defensive plan is voted on
before the bid expires, said Shawn McColm, a lawyer for the
commission. “To do otherwise adds another defensive tactic”
for companies, he told the panel today.  
 ‘Dangerous’ Precedent  
 The decision sets a “dangerous” precedent that will allow
hostile bidders to set deadlines before votes on poison pills
and deprive stockholders of a say, said Jessica Kimmel, Lions
Gate’s lawyer.  
 She said Icahn is asking to take away “the free and
unconstrained voting environment.”  
 Lions Gate fell 37 cents, or 5.3 percent, to $6.62 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, then rose as high as
$7.07 in after-hours trading. The shares had gained 20 percent
this year before today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Vancouver at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Michael Burns, vice chairman of Lions Gate Entertainment Corp., speaks during the Gabelli & Co. 2nd Annual Digital Cinema and Movie Conference at the Harvard Club in New York, on March 11, 2010. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
