-- Brazil May Host Uranium Swap to Provide Reactor Fuel for Iran, Amorim Says
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-04-27T10:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/iran-reactor-fuel-exchange-floated-by-brazil-tied-to-cooperation-with-un.html

          
          
             Brazil said it may offer its
territory as the site for an exchange of uranium that would
provide reactor fuel for Iran, provided the country increases
its cooperation with United Nations nuclear inspectors.  
 “We can consider hosting the swap deal if we are asked,”
Brazilian Foreign Minister Celso Amorim told Iran’s state-run
Islamic Republic News Agency during a visit to Tehran. “Iran
may need to act more flexibly, even more than what the
International Atomic Energy Agency requires, to gain the trust
of the other sides that its nuclear program is peaceful.”  
 The UN’s IAEA has said it can’t confirm that Iran’s atomic
intentions are peaceful because the government isn’t cooperating
with the agency. The U.S. is pushing for further UN sanctions to
stop what it says are Iran’s attempts to develop nuclear
weapons.  
 Iran should “do more to prove its nuclear activities are
peaceful,” Amorim said, “so that nobody will have doubts” about
the aims of the Iranian program.  
 Under a deal proposed in October, European nations would
take low-enriched uranium from Iran and provide the country with
more highly enriched uranium in a form that can only be used in
a medical reactor in Tehran that is running out of fuel.
Negotiations stalled after both sides disagreed about where the
swap should take place, and under what conditions.  
 Security Council  
 The talks with Brazil’s minister were the latest effort by
Iran to persuade a member of the UN Security Council to reject a
fourth round of UN sanctions against the Persian Gulf nation.
During this week’s trip, Amorim is scheduled to meet with his
Iranian counterpart, Manouchehr Mottaki, and President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad, Iran’s state television said.  
 Amorim’s visit is preparation for a trip next month by
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, Iranian Foreign
Ministry spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast said, according to Iran’s
state-run Fars news agency.  
 Besides meeting with officials from Austria and Brazil,
both of which have non-permanent seats on the Security Council,
Ahmadinejad traveled on April 23 for talks in Uganda, a third
non-permanent member.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Sheikholeslami in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        