-- Iranian Opposition Movement Calls for Protests on Election Anniversary
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-04-27T14:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/iranian-opposition-movement-calls-for-protests-on-election-anniversary.html

          
          
             Iranian opposition leaders Mir
Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi called on their supporters to
hold protests on June 12, the first anniversary of the disputed
re-election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.  
 The two politicians, who ran against Ahmadinejad in a vote
they say was rigged, met yesterday to call for the “staging of
demonstrations” by all groups, including political parties,
Saham News, the Web site of Karrubi’s party, said today.  
 Dissent over the election led to the biggest protests in
Tehran and major cities since the 1979 revolution that brought
Shiite Muslim clerics to power. Demonstrators defied a ban on
the rallies and continued to gather sporadically in the months
that followed the vote. The protests died down in February as
the authorities strengthened their crackdown on dissenters.  
 Security forces said about 5,000 people were arrested
during the demonstrations, many of them later released on bail.
Official figures also show that 44 people have died since the
vote in clashes with authorities. Amnesty International said the
casualty toll is at least twice as high and includes deaths
resulting from violence inflicted in custody.  
 Former Prime Minister Mousavi and ex-parliamentary Speaker
Karrubi are prominent in the opposition alliance known as the
Green Movement, which grew out of the post-election protests and
has gone on to criticize the Islamic establishment.  
 ‘Collective Memory’  
 Ahmadinejad’s government “each day calls people names and
dubs them as infidels for having an opinion that is different,”
Mousavi was quoted as saying during the meeting. “People have a
collective memory. They will not forget the actions and events
that took place against them in the past year.”  
 Karrubi called the situation “horrifying,” and said,
“People can see what a dark political and economic future
awaits them.”  
 The government says Mousavi and Karrubi are playing into
the hands of the U.S. and its allies as those countries plot to
undermine the regime. The two leaders have also been accused of
arranging illegal demonstrations. The Iranian constitution says
peaceful gatherings may be organized provided they don’t violate
“the foundations of Islam.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Beirut at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        