-- Italian Consumer Confidence Increases Unexpectedly on Growth, Jobs Outlook
-- Lorenzo Totaro
-- 2010-04-27T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/italian-consumer-confidence-increases-unexpectedly-on-growth-jobs-outlook.html

          
          
             Italian consumer confidence
unexpectedly rose in April from the lowest in almost a year as
households grew more optimistic about the outlook for jobs.  
 The Isae Institute’s consumer confidence index climbed to
107.9 from 106.3 in March, the lowest since June, the Rome-based
research center said today in an e-mailed statement. Economists
had forecast a reading of 106.3, according to the median of 11
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The improvement was “due to a more favorable view of the
labor market, which is corroborated both by the state of family
budgets and intentions to purchase durable goods,” Isae said.  
 Europe’s fourth-biggest economy will grow 0.8 percent this
year and 1.2 percent in 2011 as the recovery in emerging
countries and the U.S. gathers pace, boosting demand for Italian
exports, the International Monetary Fund said last week.
Industrial output probably rose a seasonally adjusted 1.7
percent in the first quarter, employers’ lobby Confindustria
said on April 22.  
 With companies such as Fiat SpA, Italy’s biggest
manufacturer, cutting jobs, unemployment has weighed on consumer
spending, which contracted 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter.
Spending will take as many as five years to return to pre-
recession level, retailers’ lobby Confcommercio said last month.  
 Still, there are signs that businesses may resume hiring as
the recovery gathers pace. The IMF forecast Italy’s unemployment
rate will increase to 8.7 percent in 2010 before falling to 8.6
percent in 2011. The rate was 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter
of last year.  
 Consumer optimism in Italy contrasted with France, where an
index of household confidence unexpectedly fell this month to
minus 37 from minus 34 in March, Paris-based national statistics
institute Insee said in a report today.  
 Isae conducted its survey between April 1 and April 16.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        