-- Live Nation, Ticketmaster Will Get Second U.K. Antitrust Ruling Next Week
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-04-27T15:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/live-nation-ticketmaster-will-get-second-u-k-antitrust-ruling-next-week.html

          
          
             Live Nation Entertainment Inc., the
world’s biggest concert promoter since its merger with
Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc., is scheduled to get a second
U.K. antitrust ruling on the deal as early as next week.  
 The Competition Commission, one of Britain’s antitrust
regulators, is “aiming” to publish a revised result next week,
spokesman Rory Taylor said in an e-mail. He didn’t say what
steps, if any, the agency may require for approval. The deal has
already been approved in the U.S.  
 The regulator first signed off on the merger in December
after resolving competition concerns in the British market. In
February, a London tribunal ordered the watchdog to reopen the
case when another company complained it wasn’t consulted during
the review process.  
 “They are operating as a merged company and it would be a
little difficult to police” if the agency rejected the deal,
said Robert Bell, a London-based antitrust lawyer with the firm
Speechly Bircham LLC, who isn’t involved in the case. “I think
they’ll adopt a middle road approach.”  
 Live Nation, based in Beverly Hills, California, won U.S.
antitrust approval of the $899 million merger in January, after
almost a year of review. The deal combined the world’s largest
ticket retailer with the biggest promoter of concerts.  
 The U.K. Competition Appeal Tribunal, which hears
challenges to antitrust decisions, ordered a review of the case
in response to an appeal by CTS Eventim AG, which had an
agreement with Live Nation to handle ticketing for U.K.
concerts.  
 ‘Unusual Case’  
 Bell said the regulator will likely approve the deal and
require Live Nation to follow the terms of its deal with CTS.  
 “This is an unusual case in that just before the merger
was announced, CTM entered into a long-term agreement with Live
Nation,” Bell said.  
 A message left at Live Nation’s press office in California
before normal business hours wasn’t immediately returned.  
 Ticketmaster, as part of the U.S. approval process, agreed
to license its software to its largest customer and sell its
Paciolan unit. It was also blocked for 10 years from retaliating
against concert sites that sign ticket-sales contracts with a
competitor.  
 The combined company has a presence in almost every segment
of live entertainment, including concert promotion, venue
operation, ticket sales and artist management.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        