-- Japan Urges Ukraine to Return Emission-Permit Proceeds to Climate Account
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-04-27T10:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/japan-urges-ukraine-to-return-emission-permit-proceeds-to-climate-account.html

          
          
             A Japanese trade ministry official
said Ukraine should return proceeds from a 2009 sale of
emissions permits to an account for climate spending.  
 Japan isn’t seeking repayment and has asked for an
unspecified sum to be returned to Ukraine’s National
Environmental Investment Agency’s account, said Keiji Hisata, an
emissions trading official at Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade
and Industry. Ukraine should spend the money on energy
conservation, renewable supplies and other environmental
programs, Hisata said.  
 “We don’t know how much money they are missing,” Hisata
said. Japan has contacts in Ukraine who notified it of the
missing proceeds, he said.  
 Ukraine sold 30 million Assigned Amount Units from the
United Nations last year for 10.40 euros ($13.85) apiece,
according to Bloomberg data. Ukrainian Prime Minister Mykola
Azarov told reporters today in Kiev that the country “wasted”
3.5 billion hryvnia ($442 million) it got from selling UN carbon
permits to Japan and is prepared to return the money.  
 Ukraine and Japan signed a contract for the sale of
Assigned Amount Units under the UN’s Kyoto protocol. The 1997
Kyoto treaty is an agreement between nations to reduce global
warming and it assigns emission-reduction targets to countries
through 2012.  
 The funds from the sale to Japan were “plundered,”
according to Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych, who told
reporters last week that a group of experts representing the
UN is expected to “hold checks in Ukraine soon.”  
 Serhiy Orlenko, head of Ukraine’s Environmental Investment
Agency, wasn’t immediately available to comment today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net 
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        