-- Japan Set to Launch World's First Solar-Sail Powered Satellite Next Month
-- Stuart Biggs
-- 2010-04-27T09:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/japan-set-to-launch-world-s-first-solar-sail-powered-satellite-next-month.html

          
          
             The Japan Aerospace Exploration
Agency plans to launch the world’s first satellite powered by a
giant solar sail to demonstrate next-generation renewable-energy
technology, the agency said today.  
 The 20-meter (66-foot) sail, which cost about 1.5 billion
yen ($16 million), will be wrapped around the “space yacht”
during liftoff and will unfurl once the craft leaves the Earth’s
atmosphere, JAXA said. The Ikaros will be launched by Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd., Japan’s biggest heavy-machinery maker,
from Tanegashima Space Center in southwestern Japan on May 18,
the agency said.  
 The flexible sail is covered in a film of solar cells and
will be about 32.5 micrometers thick, about half a human hair,
JAXA said. The technology, known as thin-film solar, is being
developed to one day replace fixed solar panels because it can
be shaped to fit in small and irregularly shaped places, said
Hiroaki Benten at Kyoto University.  
 “Solar film has an enormous potential for use in our
everyday lives if this technology becomes economically viable,”
Benten, an assistant professor of polymer chemistry, said today
by telephone. “You’re going to be able to bring a solar-film
battery with you as you walk about. It can be wrapped around
anything.”  
 The sail propels the craft using resistance created by
energy from the sun in much the same way as the wind propels a
sailboat across the water. Photons, or solar energy particles,
bounce off tiny mirrors, providing enough thrust for satellites
to perform maneuvers such as rotating or hovering, JAXA said.  
 NASA, Russians  
 Solar sails can also use ion propulsion like conventional
satellites. The panels generate electricity to ionize gas, which
it emits at high speed to thrust the satellite, the U.S.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration said on its Web
site.  
 NASA and Russia are exploring solar-sail technology, which
can create lighter and smaller craft than conventional
satellites. While prototypes have been unfurled, no solar sail
has been successfully used to propel a craft in space, JAXA
said.  
 Thin-film solar cells are being developed by companies
including First Solar Inc. and Toledo, Ohio-based Xunlight Corp.
to expand the use of solar power beyond rooftop installations on
houses and other buildings. The cells for Ikaros were supplied
by Ames, Iowa-based PowerFilm Inc., JAXA said today.  
 Six-Month Mission  
 Ikaros’s mission will conclude within six months, and JAXA
plans to launch a larger sail-powered satellite in the early
part of the next decade to explore Jupiter and the Trojan
asteroids, it said.  
 The Ikaros will use photon propulsion on this mission, and
electricity from the sail will power equipment on the satellite.
Both ion and photon propulsion will be used in the mission to
Jupiter, according to JAXA.  
 Ikaros, a homonym for Icarus, the figure in Greek mythology
who flew too close to the sun and fell to the sea, stands for
Interplanetary Kite-craft Accelerated by Radiation of the Sun.  
 “Unlike the mythical Icarus, this Ikaros will not crash,”
Yuichi Tsuda, an assistant professor at JAXA, said today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net 
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at ~ 
 Sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An undated handout illustration shows the  Interplanetary Kite-craft Accelerated by Radiation of the Sun (IKAROS) solar sail, provided to the media on April 27, 2010. Source: JAXA via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
