-- Kazakh Halyk Bank May Bid for BTA, Abandon Bond Plan
-- Nariman Gizitdinov
-- 2010-04-27T13:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/kazakh-halyk-bank-may-bid-for-bta-drop-bond-plan-ceo-shayakhmetova-says.html

          
          
             Halyk Savings Bank, the lender
controlled by Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s daughter
and son-in-law, may bid for defaulted BTA Bank and drop a plan
to sell bonds after amassing “excessive liquidity.”  
 Halyk,  Kazakhstan ’s second-largest lender by assets, is
ready to acquire “good assets” in the former Soviet republic,
Chief Executive Officer Umut Shayakhmetova said in an interview
in the financial capital Almaty today. “If banks are put up for
sale, we think they should be offered to everyone, not just
Sberbank, for example.”  
 Shayakhmetova said Halyk may cancel a plan to sell $500
million of bonds as it has “excessive liquidity” of more than
$5 billion.  
 The state-owned National Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna took
control of BTA, Kazakhstan’s third-largest bank, in February
2009. BTA defaulted two months later after credit markets froze
and Kazakhstan’s property bubble burst. Samruk-Kazyna said at
the time that it planned to sell BTA to  Russia ’s OAO Sberbank.  
 Halyk shares fell 4.5 percent in London trading to $9.12 as
of 1:51 p.m. The yield on Halyk’s $700 million of bonds due in
2017 fell 5 basis points to 7.545 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 State Stake  
 Samruk-Kazyna plans to sell its bank stakes in the next
three to five years, Chief Executive Officer  Kairat Kelimbetov 
said last month. The fund has roughly $70 billion under
management, including 26.8 percent of Halyk’s common and
preferred shares, according to the  Kazakhstan Stock Exchange .  
 Shayakhmetova said Halyk is in talks to buy back the
state’s stake and return a 60 billion tenge ($410 million)
government deposit.  
 The bank won’t tap foreign credit markets unless liquidity
falls to $2 billion, she said. “Halyk definitely won’t borrow
in the first half, and may not borrow in the second half, since
the bank is maintaining excessive liquidity.”  
 Halyk can provide $300 million in long-term loans, “but
unfortunately there currently aren’t any such investment
projects,” she said.  
 Almaty-based Halyk plans to increase profit to more than 25
billion tenge from 15.9 billion tenge in 2009, Shayakhmetova
said. Nonperforming loans may rise from the current level of 20
percent of the bank’s 1.2 trillion tenge loan portfolio to 23
percent at the end of this year, she said.  
 Restructuring Debt  
 “We’re restructuring our clients’ debts,” Shayakhmetova
said. “At the end of this year it will be clear which of our
problem borrowers is capable of restarting loan payments, and
whose debts we’ll have to write off by selling collateral and
writing off the difference.”  
 Shayakhmetova said she met with Nazarbayev yesterday in the
bank’s new 19-story headquarters in Almaty and conveyed concern
in the financial sector about planned amendments to regulations
on lending and bank holdings.  
 The government may ban banks from owning insurance and
leasing companies, pension funds and brokerage houses, she said.  
 “We could be deprived of the diversification of our
business and synergies from crossover sales,” she said. “If
they’re moved to the holding company level, significant funds
from shareholders will be needed for their capitalization.”  
 Plans to bar collateral sales outside the courts would
“significantly complicate work with problem borrowers,” she
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        