-- Komatsu Forecasts Profit to Triple on Rising Chinese Demand for Excavators
-- Masumi Suga
-- 2010-04-27T08:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/komatsu-forecasts-profit-to-triple-on-rising-chinese-demand-for-excavators.html

          
          
             Komatsu Ltd., the world’s second-
biggest maker of construction equipment, forecast profit will
nearly triple this fiscal year as Chinese orders jump.  
 Net income will probably rise to 90 billion yen ($959
million) for the year ending March 31, 2011, from 33.6 billion
yen a year earlier, Tokyo-based Komatsu said today.  
 Komatsu and U.S. rival Caterpillar Inc. are counting on
growth in China where the government is funding roads, railroads
and buildings to develop inland provinces. Industry demand for
construction and mining machinery will rise 20 percent this year
on gains in China and Southeast Asia, the company said today.  
 “We see very strong performance in China, ” Chief
Financial Officer Kenji Kinoshita said at a press conference in
Tokyo. “We’re busy sending key components from Japan” for
assembly in China, he said.  
 Komatsu, which builds excavators and bulldozers, rose 1.2
percent to close at 1,904 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange before
the results were released.  
 Sales may increase 16 percent this fiscal year to 1.66
trillion yen, the company forecast. Komatsu today said it swung
back to a profit of 15.2 billion yen for the three months ended
March 31, from a loss of 34.5 billion yen a year ago. Revenue
jumped 13 percent to 427.6 billion yen in the fourth quarter.  
 China’s Economy  
 China and countries outside the U.S., Europe and Japan will
probably account for 71 percent of the global construction
equipment market this fiscal year, up from 53 percent two years
earlier, according to a presentation by Komatsu.  
 Under a mid-term management plan unveiled today, the
company plans to boost its operating profit ratio to 15 percent
or higher in the year ending March 2013, compared with 4.7
percent in the previous year, the statement said.  
 Caterpillar, based in Peoria, Illinois, yesterday posted
its first earnings increase in seven quarters, exceeding
analysts’ estimates, as the global economy began to improve.  
 China’s economy expanded 11.9 percent in the January-to-
March quarter, the biggest gain in almost three years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        