-- Korean Won Slides After Finance Ministry Vows to Act Over `Excessive' Gain
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-04-27T07:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/korean-won-slides-after-finance-ministry-vows-to-act-over-excessive-gain.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won slid from a 19-
month high against the dollar after the government said gains
were “excessive” and signaled it may intervene.  
 Measures will be taken to counter “herd behavior” in the
foreign-exchange market, Kim Ik Joo, director-general at the
Ministry of Strategy and Finance, said by phone today.
The remarks reflect concern that the currency’s 21 percent gain
over the past year may erode profits at the exporters that are
leading a recovery in Asia’s fourth-largest economy.  
 “The verbal intervention appears to be more effective than
actual moves for now because they know everyone in the market
wants to sell dollars,” said Lee Eung Joo, a trader at Daegu
Bank in Seoul. “This will only pause the strengthening
momentum.”  
 The won weakened 0.6 percent to 1,110.15 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, after dropping as much as 1 percent
to 1,114.45, the weakest level since April 20, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency appreciated yesterday to
1,102.85, the strongest since September 2008. It may advance to
1,050 by the end of this quarter, Lee predicted.  
 The currency had been trading near yesterday’s high after a
central bank report showed the nation’s gross domestic product
increased 1.8 percent in the first quarter from the preceding
three months. That beat the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey for a 1.5 percent rise and was faster than the 0.2
percent pace in the prior quarter.  
 Won Demand  
 Demand for the won has increased as investors prepare to
apply for South Korea’s biggest initial public offering, a 4.89
trillion won ($4.4 billion) stock sale by Samsung Life Insurance
Co. The shares are due to start trading on May 12.  
 “With the first-quarter GDP out, Samsung Life set to launch
its IPO and global data supportive, the Bank of Korea is trying
to stop the market from shorting the dollar,” said Gerrard Katz,
head of foreign-exchange trading at Standard Chartered Plc. A
short position is a bet that a currency will decline. “All the
way down to 1,100 there’s been talk of BOK intervention.”  
 The Kospi stock index, down 0.2 percent today, has climbed
30 percent in the past year. Overseas investors bought $9.6
billion more Korean shares than they sold this year, according
to stock exchange data.  
 The Bank of Korea buys and sells currencies on behalf of
the government to try and influence exchange rates. A ministry
official declined to say whether it ordered such intervention
today.  
 “The foreign-exchange authorities believe market players
bet excessively on the won’s rise,” Kim at the ministry told
reporters. “The government will take appropriate measures to
stabilize the market if herd behavior moves the exchange rate
sharply.”  
 Bonds Climb  
 Investors are also buying up local debt, pushing three-year
bond yields down by 67 basis points in 2010. The government last
year asked Citigroup Inc. to include the nation’s treasury notes
into its World Government Bond Index, a benchmark tracked by
funds including Franklin Templeton Investments.  
 South Korea’s benchmark bonds rose, reducing yields to the
lowest level in a year, after the GDP report showed private
consumption contributed little to economic growth. Consumer
spending rose 0.6 percent in the first three months of this year,
compared with a 0.4 percent increase in the fourth quarter of
2009.  
 “The data reinforces doubts about the sustainability of the
recovery, which makes them bond market-positive,” Tim Condon,
chief economist at ING Financial Markets, wrote in a report
published today. “We blame uneven job growth.”  
 The yield on the 4.25 percent bond due December 2012 fell
5.5 basis points to 3.705 percent, the lowest since May 2009.  
 South Korea’s unemployment rate fell by the most in more
than 10 years in March to 3.8 percent from 4.4 percent in
February. The number of Koreans working in manufacturing rose
2.9 percent, while construction jobs fell 0.9 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net 
Frances Yoon in Hong Kong at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     South Korean won coins and bills are displayed in Seoul, on Sept. 3, 2008. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
