-- Kulczyk Oil Ventures Seeks $286 Million at Maximum Public Offering Price
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-04-27T16:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/kulczyk-oil-ventures-seeks-286-million-at-maximum-public-offering-price.html

          
          
             Kulczyk Oil Ventures Inc., the
exploration company controlled by Polish billionaire Jan
Kulczyk, set the maximum value of its initial public offering at
851.5 million zloty ($286 million) as it raises cash to expand.  
 Kulczyk Oil priced the 325 million shares in the offering,
a 59 percent stake, at 2.62 zloty each, it said on its Web site
today. The IPO will be the biggest by a non-state-owned company
in Poland since Czech coal producer New World Resources NV sold
shares two years ago, according to the Warsaw bourse’s Web site.  
 Kulczyk Oil will become the first Canadian company to trade
on the Warsaw bourse and the second exploration venture after
Petrolinvest SA, which drills for oil in Kazakhstan. The
Calgary-based company focuses on Brunei, Syria and Ukraine. HSBC
Holdings Plc, Erste Group Bank AG and Bank Zachodni WBK SA will
manage the offering, according to the company’s Web site.  
 Equity offerings in Poland may rise to a record 40 billion
zloty this year as the government speeds up asset sales to fund
its widening budget deficit and private businesses seek cash for
expansion, according to April 23 estimates by Pioneer Pekao
Investment Management SA, Poland’s largest mutual fund manager.  
 The government and Dutch investor Eureko BV last week
started the initial public offering of a 30 percent stake in PZU
SA, the country’s biggest insurer. The 8.1 billion-zloty IPO is
the biggest by a Polish company since the creation of the Warsaw
bourse in 1991 and the largest in Europe since 2007.  
 Poland this year plans a public offering of shares in
Tauron Polska Energia SA, the country’s second-biggest power
producer, and the Warsaw bourse, Chris Walenczak, chief adviser
to Treasury Minister Aleksander Grad, said in Warsaw today.  
 The country’s stock exchange, the biggest in central
Europe, saw the total value of Polish-based companies triple to
more than $160 billion over the last decade, according to bourse
data. Thirteen companies started trading on its main market last
year, including state-owned power producer PGE SA, which raised
5.97 billion zloty in Europe’s biggest IPO of 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net 
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        