-- N Brown to Expand Into U.S., Targeting Clothing Market for Heavier Women
-- David Altaner
-- 2010-04-27T09:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/n-brown-to-expand-into-u-s-targeting-clothing-market-for-heavier-women.html

          
          
             N Brown Group Plc, the U.K. owner
of the Fashion World and Simply Be catalogs, will expand in the
U.S. this year as it targets heavier women in the country, a
potential $35 billion market.  
 The retailer will open a Simply Be Web site in the U.S. in
July and deliver 1 million catalogs in August, Chief Executive
Officer Alan White said in a phone interview today. The company
is also seeking to shift more of its total sales online, where
costs are lower and orders larger, he said.  
 In the U.K., N Brown has about a 5 percent share of the
women’s clothing market for sizes 16 and up, and it sees
potential abroad, White said. The Simply Be brand was introduced
in Germany last year.  
 “We don’t need to do “x” amount in Year One; we’ll look
to slowly but surely build up customers,” in the U.S., White
said. “To get started will cost us less than 1 million pounds
($1.54 million).”  
 Full-year pretax profit excluding one-items climbed 13
percent to 93.1 million pounds as sales advanced 4.2 percent to
690 million pounds, Manchester-based N Brown said in a statement
today. Profit on that basis beat analysts’ consensus forecasts
by about 6 percent, according to Credit Suisse, one of the
company’s brokers.  
 Net income for the year ended Feb. 27 was little changed at
62.5 million pounds, from 62.1 million pounds a year earlier.  
 Internet Sales  
 Sales for the eight weeks to April 24 rose 4.1 percent,
with comparable sales up 3.1 percent. This year’s revenue gains
will be “relatively modest” as customer recruitment numbers
were little changed last fiscal year, White said.  
 N Brown did 39 percent of its sales over the Internet in
the fiscal year, up from 34 percent a year earlier. It wants to
make Internet sales half of revenue within two years, White
said, with average order sizes on the Web 25 percent larger.  
 “Every time we bypass a call center, that saves us 75
pence to a pound” with catalog-transaction costs averaging 3
pounds, White said.  
 The company is also seeking small acquisitions of “niche
customers and products,” he said. Current customers’ average
age is 57, and the company sells clothing to heavier or taller
men and women, and shoes for those with wider feet.  
 Net borrowings declined by 22 percent to 170.1 million
pounds as the company reduced bad customer debt.  
 N Brown rose 7.6 pence, or 3 percent, to 260 pence at 10:45
a.m. in London. The shares have risen 4.8 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 723.9 million pounds.  
 In the U.K., N Brown is adding new ranges such as That’s My
Style for women in their late 50s, and Williams and Brown, for
men over 50.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        