-- National Bank of Abu Dhabi Reports Record Quarterly Net on Interest Income
-- Vivian Salama
-- 2010-04-27T10:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/national-bank-of-abu-dhabi-quarterly-profit-jumps-34-on-investment-gains.html

          
          
             National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC,
the United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest lender by assets, said
first-quarter profit surged to a record on higher interest
income and investment gains.  
 Net income rose to 1.03 billion dirhams ($281 million) from
770.4 million dirhams a year earlier, the bank said in an e-
mailed statement today. That exceeded the 800 million-dirham
median of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net
interest income advanced 13 percent to 1.24 billion dirhams. The
lender posted an investment gain of 97 million dirhams compared
with a loss of 55.4 million dirhams a year earlier.  
 U.A.E. banks are recovering after the worst credit crunch
since the 1930s forced banks around the world to clamp down on
lending. Emirates NBD PJSC and First Gulf Bank, the biggest and
fourth-biggest banks in the U.A.E., reported first-quarter
profits that beat analysts’ estimates.  
 “In the current U.A.E. economic environment where
confidence is growing but recovery is still subdued, the group
continues to focus on building revenues and strengthening
customer relationships,” Chairman Nasser Alsowaidi said in the
statement.  
 NBAD sold $750 million of five-year bonds last month,
becoming the first U.A.E. entity to tap capital markets since
state-owned Dubai World said it was seeking to restructure about
$24.8 billion of debt. The bank is owed $239 million by Dubai
World, making it one of at least 90 banks awaiting repayment,
Chief Executive Officer Michael Tomalin said Feb. 1.  
 NBAD’s loans rose 1 percent to 133.6 billion dirhams at the
end of March, the statement said. The bank’s liquidity position
“remains comfortable” and the availability of medium-term
funding “improved gradually” during the quarter, it said. The
bank booked an impairment charge of 225 million dirhams.  
 NBAD said last week its board will consider a proposal to
buy back bonds listed on the Abu Dhabi bourse. Its shares
increased 6.5 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        