-- New Zealand's Banks Facing Lower Growth, Narrower Margins, KPMG Says
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-04-27T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/new-zealand-s-banks-facing-lower-growth-narrower-margins-kpmg-says.html

          
          
             New Zealand banks face a low-growth
environment this year that is squeezing margins and discouraging
riskier investment, according to KPMG International.  
 “New transactions will need to meet the rates of return
determined for each type of business before they can be entered
into,” KPMG said in a report released in Wellington today.
“This will be within a wider operational environment where the
banks have less appetite for risky transactions.”  
 Bank profits plummeted 90 percent in 2009 as New Zealand
went through its worst recession in three decades, the report
showed. The economy, which contracted 1.6 percent last year,
will probably grow 3.2 percent in 2010, according to central
bank forecasts published last month.  
 Still, lenders will need to adapt to a “slower and more
patchy recovery,” KPMG said. “They must be conscious of the
disciplines required in the new environment.”  
 Many business customers are reluctant to take on new debt
because of the modest economic recovery, while consumers are
unsure of the housing market and employment, it said. The fourth
quarter jobless rate was a 10-year high of 7.3 percent.  
 The Reserve Bank has introduced new liquidity policies
including a core funding ratio that requires banks to obtain a
minimum proportion of funding from deposits or long-term debt
instruments.  
 “The focus on securing retail deposits is not going to
change in the short term and will continue to put pressure on
the cost of funds and margins for all institutions,” KPMG said.  
 Liquidity Policy  
 “Regulatory structures such as the Reserve Bank liquidity
policy and asset risk weightings for capital adequacy purposes
put limits on the ability to pursue aggressive growth.”  
 In 2009, bank profits tumbled to NZ$299 million ($217
million) from NZ$3 billion a year earlier, today’s report showed.  
 The decline included provisions by the nation’s largest
lenders for settlement of a dispute over structured tax
transactions. Excluding the tax provisions, underlying bank
profits fell 26 percent to NZ$3.2 billion.  
 Loan losses in the year reached NZ$2.2 billion, reflecting
falling property values and a loss of business confidence, the
report showed. Loan growth was 2.7 percent.  
 The local units of Australia’s biggest banks -- National
Australia Bank Ltd., Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
Westpac Banking Corp. and Commonwealth Bank of Australia -- own
about 90 percent of all New Zealand’s banking assets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        