-- New Zealand, Australian Dollars Drop on Greek Debt Concerns, Stock Losses
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-04-27T13:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/new-zealand-dollar-falls-from-three-month-high-versus-yen-on-greek-concern.html

          
          
             The New Zealand and Australian
dollars fell on concern a European Union-led aid package for
Greece won’t keep the nation’s deficit crisis from spreading,
damping demand for higher-yielding currencies.  
 “We will see risk wobble every second day or so for a few
more weeks” until the EU’s long-term debt situation becomes
clear, said Annette Beacher, senior strategist at Toronto
Dominion Bank in Singapore.  
 The New Zealand dollar fell 0.6 percent to 71.90 U.S. cents
at 9:34 a.m. in New York, from 72.34 cents yesterday, when it
reached 72.56, the highest level since Jan. 20. Australia’s
currency slid 0.4 percent to 92.28 U.S. cents, from 92.69.  
 There will be no decision on aid for Greece until a plan of
budget cuts is worked out, Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel
told reporters yesterday in Berlin. Germany will assist the
Mediterranean nation only after it agrees to take “tough”
measures, she said.  
 “I’ve said for weeks that Greece must do its homework
first,” Merkel said yesterday at a regional election rally in
the town of Soest in North Rhine-Westphalia, where
state elections are due on May 9. “We’re not doing this because
we believe Greece needs help. We’re doing it because we’re
interested in the euro’s stability. We can’t idly stand by when
our currency comes under threat.”  
 Benchmark interest rates are 4.25 percent in Australia and
2.5 percent in New Zealand, compared with 0.1 percent in Japan
and as low as zero in the U.S., attracting investors to the
South Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such
trades is that currency market moves will erase profits.  
 Drop in Stocks  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.4 percent, while
the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 0.2 percent.  
 New Zealand’s currency remained lower versus the greenback
even after Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s largest dairy exporter, raised its forecast for milk
prices today.  
 The Reserve Bank will keep its official cash rate unchanged
at its April 29 meeting, according to all 14 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  
 Australian government bonds rose. The yield on the 4.5
percent note maturing in April 2020 fell 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 5.79 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        