-- Nigeria Stocks Fall Most in 5 Weeks, Led by Banks, on Lenders' Profit Drop
-- Vincent Nwanma
-- 2010-04-27T16:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/nigeria-stocks-fall-most-in-5-weeks-led-by-banks-on-lenders-profit-drop.html

          
          
             Nigerian stocks fell the most in
five weeks, led by banks, as some lenders reported a decline in
first-quarter performance.  
 The 213-member Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index
declined 2.6 percent to 26,263.67 at the close in Lagos, an
exchange official said by phone from the city. The measure
posted its biggest intraday decrease since March 19 and extended
a six-day decline to 6.3 percent.  
 Zenith Bank Plc, the biggest lender by market value, fell
the most this month after reporting an 8 percent drop in net
interest income for the three months through March. United Bank
for Africa Plc reached its lowest level since March 31 after
yesterday saying first-quarter profit fell 79 percent. Skye Bank
Plc lost 1.3 percent as net income retreated 48 percent.  
 “Corporate results are having a depressing effect,”
Raheem Mohammed, chief executive officer of Kundila Finance, a
Lagos-based brokerage, said in by phone today.  
 Nigeria’s All-Share Index has surged 26 percent this year
after being the world’s second-worst performer in 2009 following
Ghana’s, outperforming a 10 percent gain in the Morgan Stanley
Frontier Markets index over the same period.  
 Nigerian banks faced collapse last year, forcing the
central bank to bail some of them out after bad debts relating
to so-called margin loans, which speculators use to buy shares,
soared. Bank of America Corp. last year estimated that at least
1 trillion naira ($6.7 billion) of margin loans were extended.  
 The Central Bank of Nigeria has set a 10 percent limit on
how much of a bank’s total portfolio can be used for margin
lending, according to a statement posted on the Abuja-based
bank’s Web site dated yesterday. The new rules were approved on
April 15.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg on 
 Amonteiro4@bloomberg.net 
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos via Johannesburg on 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        