-- Nippon Life Heads Japan Insurers' Carry Trade Revival, Yen May Drop to 100
-- Shigeki Nozawa
-- 2010-04-27T01:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/nippon-life-heads-japan-insurers-carry-trade-revival-yen-may-drop-to-100.html

          
          
             Nippon Life Insurance Co., Japan’s
largest life insurer, leads firms managing more than 120
trillion yen ($1.3 trillion) aiming to expand or retain foreign
bond holdings, gauging the yen may slide to a one-year low.  
 Nippon Life will “boost” overseas debt stakes, said
Yosuke Matsunaga, general manager of the company’s finance and
investment planning department. Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co.,
the third-biggest, plans to invest 300 billion yen abroad. Each
plans to buy without currency hedges. Dai-ichi Life Insurance
Co. and Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. plan to “maintain” their
unhedged foreign bond positions. The four companies forecast the
yen will depreciate to as weak as 105 per dollar, the lowest
since 2008, in the fiscal year that started April 1.  
 “Japanese investors are looking to reinstate the carry
trade,” said Christian Carrillo, a senior interest-rate
strategist in Tokyo at Societe Generale SA. Buying more foreign
bonds or canceling existing hedges “would weaken the currency.
In the case of the lifers they are such large investors that, by
them expecting yen weakness and acting on that expectation, they
can actually force the currency weaker.”  
 Japan’s currency traded at 93.90 per dollar as of 8:01 a.m.
in Tokyo, from 93.96 yesterday in New York. Meiji Yasuda would
make approximately 35 billion yen on the exchange-rate change
alone if the yen weakens to 105 by March 31, 2011.  
 “We will accumulate open foreign bonds according to yield
and currency levels,” Nippon Life’s Matsunaga said in an
interview. “If the yen appreciates we will add to holdings.”  
 Hedged Versus Open  
 Most of the insurers took advantage of low hedging costs
last fiscal year and paid for protection against currency
fluctuations as they added to their overseas debt holdings.  
 The difference between Japanese and foreign short-term
borrowing costs, which determines fees to hedge securities,
narrowed to as low as minus 7 basis points in September. Since
then the spread has widened to 8 basis points. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  
 Foreign short-term borrowing costs rose above domestic
borrowing costs in August for the first time since May 1993,
inverting the spread, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Domestic Bond Holdings  
 The nation’s top life insurers also said they plan to boost
domestic bond holdings to secure stable returns as the
government withdraws stimulus measures that aided the nation’s
economy, and as regulators strengthen capital requirements. Such
demand may help to absorb the record 144.3 trillion yen in
planned government sales of notes and bonds this fiscal year.  
 The capital requirements plan, which takes effect in the
fiscal year ending March 2012, boosts the measure of volatility
risk for Japanese stocks to 20 percent from 10 percent, while
the barometer for domestic bonds will rise to 2 percent from 1
percent.  
 Yields on 10-year Japanese notes will trade between 1.2
percent and 1.8 percent, from 1.32 percent yesterday, according
to the insurers.  
 Japanese government bonds handed investors a return of 1.4
percent last fiscal year ended March 31, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 A Japanese investor in Australian government bonds would
have made a loss of 5 percent in yen terms if the holdings were
fully hedged, while a similar investor would have received
returns exceeding 23 percent if they were unhedged, according to
the Merrill indexes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Theresa Barraclough in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo shows the Nippon Life Insurance Co. headquarters in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
