-- K-Line, Nippon Yusen Forecast Profits as Economic Rebound Spurs Ship Rates
-- Kiyotaka Matsuda
-- 2010-04-27T08:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/nippon-yusen-k-line-forecast-profits-as-economic-revival-spurs-ship-rates.html

          
          
             Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s largest
shipping line by sales, and Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. forecast
profits this year as a global economic rebound revives container
and commodity-shipping rates.  
 Nippon Yusen predicted net income of 35 billion yen ($373
million) in the year ending March, compared with a loss of 17.4
billion yen last fiscal year, in a statement today. K-Line, the
nation’s third largest shipping line, forecast a profit of 18
billion yen compared with a 68.7 billion yen loss.  
 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. also reiterated that it expects
profit to jump more than fourfold to 60 billion yen on demand
for shipments of raw materials and finished goods. Container
lines will win a targeted increase in Asia-U.S. rates in annual
contracts starting around next month, according to China Cosco
Holdings Co., as U.S. consumers resume purchases of Asian-made
toys, furniture and electronics.  
 “Shipping lines will be buoyed by the global economy,”
said Yasuhiro Matsumoto, an analyst in Tokyo at Shinsei
Securities Co. “China’s demand for iron ore will also boost
profits.”  
 Mitsui O.S.K., Japan’s biggest operator of dry-bulk ships,
made a 12.7 billion yen profit last fiscal year as it benefited
from higher commodity-shipping rates.  
 Cost-Cutting Targets  
 Nippon Yusen also plans to cut about 20 billion yen in
costs this fiscal year, Mikitoshi Kai, a spokesman, told
reporters today in Tokyo. Mitsui O.S.K. is targeting 45 billion
yen of savings, it said in a statement. K-Line is planning for
22 billion yen of savings, it said. The companies will pare
costs through measures including slowing vessels to save fuel.  
 Nippon Yusen rose 0.3 percent to 384 yen in Tokyo trading.
Mitsui O.S.K. fell 3 percent to 688 yen and K-Line dropped 1.3
percent to 394 yen. All three lines have jumped more than 30
percent this year.  
 The global economy will expand 4.2 percent in 2010, the
fastest pace since 2007, as emerging countries including China
and India lead the world out of its worst recession since World
War II, the International Monetary Fund said last week. The
world economy contracted 0.6 percent in 2009, the IMF said.  
 The trade rebound, capacity cuts and cooperation are
helping container lines raise rates after price wars and falling
demand caused industrywide losses last year. The Transpacific
Stabilization Agreement, a group of 15 lines including Nippon
Yusen and K-Line, is seeking an $800 per 40-foot box rates
increase on Asia-U.S. west coast routes in new contracts.  
 China Cosco and China Shipping Container Lines Co., the
nation’s two biggest container lines, both said last week that
they expect the higher rates to be accepted. The increase will
make the route profitable again, said China Shipping Chairman Li
Shaode.  
 Commodity Shipping  
 The Baltic Dry index, a measure of dry-bulk shipping rates,
almost doubled last quarter from a year earlier on demand for
iron ore in China and other countries. The index averaged 3,027
points in the three months ended March, compared with 1,562 a
year earlier.  
 China, the world’s biggest steelmaker, boosted iron-ore
imports 17 percent last quarter. China imported 155 million tons
of iron ore from January to March, compared with 132 million a
year earlier, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An undated handout photograph shows Nippon Yusen K.K.'s dry-bulk ship, provided to the media on Friday, July 3, 2009. Source: Nippon Yusen K.K. via Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
