-- Norway, Russia to Settle 40-Year Border Disagreement Over Energy-Rich Sea
-- Vibeke Laroi
-- 2010-04-27T11:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/norway-russia-to-settle-40-year-border-disagreement-over-energy-rich-sea.html

          
          
             Norway and Russia reached a
preliminary agreement to settle a four-decade-long border
dispute over the energy-rich Barents Sea and Arctic Ocean,
paving the way for more cooperation on petroleum resources.  
 Talks on the border dispute have been concluded, though
some “technical control work” remains before the accord can be
presented to the countries’ parliaments for ratification,
Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said today at a joint
press conference in Oslo with President Dmitry Medvedev.  
 “This is an historic day,” Stoltenberg told reporters.
“We’ve reached a breakthrough in the most important outstanding
issue between Russia and Norway. The solution is good and
balanced and will benefit both countries.”  
 The accord proposes dividing the disputed 175,000-square
kilometer area in two approximately equal parts and also
includes agreements on cooperation between the two countries in
the fisheries and petroleum industries. Stoltenberg told
broadcaster TV2 Medvedev had indicated that a ratification of
the agreement could take place this year.  
 The two countries, which both cross the Arctic circle and
share a 196-kilometer border, have been discussing their
maritime territories since the early 1970s. Norway and Russia
are vying with the U.S., Canada and others for control of
resources in the Arctic, which may hold as much as 50 percent of
the world’s undiscovered hydrocarbons, according to BP Plc.  
 ‘Complicated Relations’  
 “This problem, let’s say frankly, complicated our
relations,” Medvedev told reporters. The agreement “will set
the main principal approaches to resolving this issue. It is
indeed a big event in Russian-Norwegian relations and Europe as
a whole will benefit.”  
 With the closure of this “difficult” issue, the two
countries can now cooperate more on projects, including in the
field of energy, where joint participation will be needed for
Russian fields under development, Medvedev said. “I think that
the best variant here will be creating a joint venture that will
operate these fields,” he said.  
 Talks during Medvedev’s two-day visit to Oslo, which began
yesterday, have also focused on OAO Gazprom’s Shtokman gas
project, located 550 kilometers (340 miles) offshore under the
Barents Sea. Medvedev said the field will be developed in
“close cooperation” with foreign partners, including Statoil
ASA, Norway’s largest oil and natural gas company.  
 ‘Constructive Collaboration’  
 “We’ve had a constructive collaboration on Shtokman with
Gazprom and Total and will of course consider new opportunities
for collaboration which may open up as a result of this
agreement,” Ola Morten Aanestad, a Statoil spokesman, said by
phone. “The northern territories are an area of focus for us,
where we have both competency and technology. It will also
strengthen the foundation for collaboration between Norway and
Russia.”  
 Norwegian Oil Minister Terje Riis-Johansen also said in a
statement that the accord will help increase activity and
cooperation between Norway and Russia in the petroleum industry.  
 Oil producers, including Statoil, have urged the Norwegian
government to allow exploration in protected areas offshore the
Lofoten and Vesteraalen islands to stem falling output from
aging fields in the North Sea.  
 The petroleum sector accounts for about 26 percent of
Norway’s gross domestic product. The country is the world’s
second-largest gas exporter and sixth-largest oil exporter.  
 Norway and Russia, which is the world’s largest energy
supplier, also agreed during Medvedev’s visit to extend
cooperation to other areas, including renewable energy and
energy efficiency.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Vibeke Laroi in Oslo at 
 vlaroi@bloomberg.net :
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        