-- Novo Nordisk Raises 2010 Revenue, Profit Forecasts on Drug Sales, Dollar
-- Frances Schwartzkopff
-- 2010-04-27T10:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/novo-nordisk-raises-2010-revenue-profit-forecasts-in-danish-kroner.html

          
          
             Novo Nordisk A/S, the world’s
biggest diabetes-drug maker, raised its 2010 forecast for the
second time this year after first-quarter profit beat analyst
estimates on higher-than-expected sales of a new medicine.  
 Revenue will advance 10 percent to 13 percent this year and
operating profit may climb 16 percent, the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-
based company said in a statement. First-quarter net income rose
23 percent to 3.32 billion kroner ($596 million), beating a 2.96
million-kroner average estimate by nine analysts.  
 Sales of the new Victoza diabetes medicine in the U.S. and
the strengthening of the dollar helped boost growth. Revenue
increases in North America outpaced that of other regions and
constituted 68 percent of all first-quarter sales growth, Novo
Nordisk said. Since gaining U.S. approval in January, Victoza
probably took market share from Eli Lilly & Co. and Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s Byetta, Jon LeCroy, an analyst at
Hapoalim Securities USA Inc., said in an April 19 note.  
 “It’s a decent first quarter with strong results, and
that’s leading to the upgrade,” Frank Andersen, an analyst at
Silkeborg, Denmark-based Jyske Bank, said in a phone interview.
“Victoza sales are better than expected, and the impact of the
U.S. health care reform looks a little bit more benign.”  
 Shares Rise  
 The shares rose 1.9 kroner, or 0.4 percent, to 454.80
kroner at 11:55 a.m. in Copenhagen trading. The stock headed for
its highest close since at least July 1991. Andersen said he’s
keeping his “reduce” recommendation because the price already
incorporates most of the positive news.  
 Novo Nordisk had previously forecast a 2010 sales increase
of 6 percent to 10 percent and a 10 percent gain in operating
profit. First-quarter revenue increased 9 percent to 13.67
billion kroner.  
 Victoza sales reached 370 million kroner. Analysts expect
Victoza sales to reach 1.14 billion kroner this year, according
to Bloomberg data. Last week, Lilly said Byetta sales in the
U.S., which constituted about 80 percent of global revenue for
the drug, fell 5 percent to $149.8 million.  
 “I’m convinced that we’ll see more than 1 billion kroner
in Victoza sales in 2010,” Jesper Brandgaard, Novo’s chief
financial officer, said in a phone interview.  
 Uptake  
 Both treatments, which are injected daily, trigger the
pancreas to produce more insulin by behaving like a naturally
occurring hormone, GLP-1, released after eating. Cells need
insulin to absorb sugar, which otherwise collects in the blood.  
 Half of patients receiving GLP-1 treatments in the 10th
week after the introduction of Victoza are receiving the Novo
drug, Brandgaard said.  
 Sixty percent of patients being prescribed Victoza have
failed to control their blood sugar using conventional oral
treatments such as metformin, and between 10 percent and 15
percent are being treated for the first time, Brandgaard said.
Another 10 percent are switching from insulin, while the
remaining 15 percent to 20 percent switch from Byetta, he said.  
 “It looks like we are able to grow the market and that is
what is crucial to the success of GLP-1s,” he said.  
 Novo Nordisk said it expects to begin further clinical tests
of an experimental combination treatment of Victoza and
Degludec, a synthetic, long-acting insulin that has yet to get
regulatory approval. Initial tests results were “encouraging”
and support further development of the medicine, Novo Nordisk
said.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        