-- Obama Urged to Take Lead on Climate After Graham Defection Threatens Bill
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-04-27T20:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/obama-urged-to-take-lead-on-climate-after-graham-defection-threatens-bill.html

          
          
             President Barack Obama vowed to
make legislation on climate change one of his top goals. Now,
with a compromise bill in danger of falling apart, business
leaders and environmentalists are pressing him to deliver.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Exelon Corp. executives were set
to appear alongside three senators in Washington yesterday to
rally support for their version of climate legislation. Instead,
administration officials and lawmakers worked to salvage Obama’s
signature environmental initiative.  
 “Strong White House engagement is really critical on a
major piece of legislation like this,” Peter Molinaro, head of
government affairs for Dow Chemical Co. said in an interview.
Midland, Michigan-based Dow is among companies calling for
climate-change legislation.  
 The measure crafted by Senators Lindsey Graham, John Kerry
and Joseph Lieberman was ready to go until Graham, a South
Carolina Republican, withdrew support on April 24 to protest
that Obama and Senate leaders may act first to overhaul
immigration laws. Obama’s involvement is needed to move the
climate measure forward, environmentalists said.  
 “It’s not enough to make progress on the smaller issues
and leave the big one undone,” Fred Krupp, president of the New
York-based Environmental Defense Fund, said in an interview.
“He’s got to make this a personal priority the way he has done
with other issues.”  
 Emanuel, Browner  
 Obama, speaking today at a Siemens AG wind-turbine plant in
Fort Madison, Iowa, touted his vision of a new U.S. energy
economy and said he’s confident about the prospects for new
policy.  
 “I believe that we can come together around this issue and
pass comprehensive energy and climate legislation that will
ignite new industries, spark new jobs in towns like this and
make America more energy independent,” Obama said.  
 White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel and Carol Browner,
Obama’s senior energy adviser, discussed strategy with company
executives and environmentalists after Graham pulled out of the
climate-change bill’s announcement, according to an
administration official who asked not to be identified
describing the private discussions.  
 General Electric Co. Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Immelt
and Exelon CEO John Rowe were among business leaders who pledged
to back the legislation and offered to help the president rally
support, the official said.  
 ‘Faith Broken’  
 While Obama and his aides had signaled that energy and
climate-change legislation would move in the Senate after an
overhaul of financial regulation is completed, the president and
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, began
calling last week for action to revamp immigration laws.  
 “What in the hell is this?” billionaire energy hedge-fund
manager Boone Pickens said yesterday at the Milken Institute
Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California, describing his
response upon hearing that immigration may move ahead of
legislation to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and encourage new
energy sources. “Immigration? It has not been mentioned in any
meeting I’ve ever been in that immigration was coming up.”  
 Graham stayed firm in his opposition after a meeting with
Kerry and Lieberman yesterday.  
 “The faith was broken when immigration was interjected at
the 11th hour,” Graham told reporters in Washington. “I’m not
going to roll out anything on energy and climate in an
environment where it’s dead before it starts.”  
 ‘Slim’ Chances  
 Reid today said he told Graham last week that he’s ready to
move forward with a climate-change bill before taking up
immigration. “The energy bill is ready,” Reid told reporters
today. “I don’t have an immigration bill.”  
 Reid said he’s committed to taking up both issues in the
current session of Congress.  
 Graham said he wants Reid to go further and drop
immigration this year. “It’s impossible for me to do energy and
climate with immigration on the table,” Graham said today.  
 Graham’s opposition has reduced the already “slim”
chances that Congress will succeed in putting a price on carbon-
dioxide emissions from utilities and manufacturers, K. Whitney
Stanco, a Washington-based analyst for Concept Capital, said in
a research note yesterday.  
 As a candidate and as president, Obama said that passing
legislation to remake the U.S. energy economy was among his top
goals, along with the economy, health care and education.  
 The House passed “cap-and-trade” legislation last year to
limit carbon dioxide emissions and set up a market in trading
pollution allowances. After action stalled in the Senate, Graham
worked with Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, and Lieberman, a
Connecticut independent, to produce a scaled-back alternative.  
 ‘Singles and Doubles’  
 The dispute that broke out over the weekend concerns how
many divisive issues the White House and Congress are able or
willing to tackle in coming months, as focus turns to the
November elections. Obama spent most of his first year as
president preoccupied with an overhaul of the health-care
system, and is focused now on financial regulation.  
 Lawrence Summers, the chief White House economic adviser,
said April 25 that both immigration and climate change should be
acted on.  
 Some environmental advocates who backed Obama’s election
and praise many of his administration’s initiatives, such as the
Environmental Protection Agency’s effort to regulate greenhouse-
gas emissions, say the president has fallen short in pushing for
action on a climate bill.  
 “Obama has delivered some impressive singles and
doubles,” Carter Roberts, president of the World Wildlife Fund
in Washington, said in an interview earlier this month. “But he
should be playing a stronger role in engaging Congress on
climate legislation.”  
 Drilling, Nuclear Power  
 Sierra Club Chairman Carl Pope said Obama “has a very
strong record as a chief executive and a mixed record as a
political leader.”  
 Obama gave away too much too soon by backing expanded
offshore oil and gas drilling and increased loan guarantees for
nuclear power before the Senate took up climate legislation,
according to Pope, whose organization is based in San Francisco.  
 “I was surprised that he did them almost as loss leaders
instead of doing them as closers,” Pope said.  
 It wasn’t a “good negotiation strategy,” said Robert F.
Kennedy Jr., who serves on the board of VantagePoint Venture
Partners, a clean-energy venture capital firm based in San
Bruno, California. “He used it as an olive branch to the
ideological right, but I don’t think they are going to give him
anything in return.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, center, speaks as Senators John Kerry of Massachusetts, right, and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, listen during a news conference  in Washington, Dec. 10, 2009. Photographer: Alex Wong/Getty Images  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  Cap-And-Trade Explained
         
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
