-- Obama in Iowa Says Clean-Energy Technology Can Spur U.S. Employment Growth
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-04-27T18:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/obama-in-iowa-says-clean-energy-technology-can-spur-u-s-employment-growth.html

          
          
             President Barack Obama, taking a
two-day, campaign-style swing through the rural Midwest, told
employees at a Siemens AG wind-turbine plant that future U.S.
economic growth depends on boosting alternative energy
production.  
 The president highlighted the investments being made in
alternative energy production under his stimulus plan as he
turns his focus to the economy and jobs, topics that will be top
issues in November’s midterm congressional elections.  
 A key element underpinning a 21st-century economy is
“igniting a new, clean-energy economy that generates good jobs
right here in America,” Obama said after touring the Fort
Madison, Iowa, facility.  
 The Siemens plant was the first stop for Obama in largely
rural parts of Iowa, Illinois and Missouri to promote the $862
billion economic stimulus program and his administration’s work
on health care, energy and regulation of Wall Street. All three
states have felt the worst recession since the 1930s. March
unemployment was 6.8 percent in Iowa, 9.5 percent in Missouri
and 11.5 percent in Illinois, compared with the national average
of 9.7 percent.  
 The president also has events scheduled in Quincy,
Illinois, Mount Pleasant and Ottumwa, Iowa, and Macon, Missouri,
where Obama is scheduled to visit a refinery run by Sioux Falls,
South Dakota-based Poet LLC, the biggest U.S. ethanol producer.  
 Rural Investments  
 Before the trip, the White House released a 42-page paper
saying the administration is pumping billions of dollars into
rural America with programs for small business loans, education,
medical care, and farm exports.  
 It’s an outline of “what we’ve already invested and what
we hope to continue investing in rural communities,” Christina
Romer, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers said in a
conference call yesterday.  
 About 50 million Americans live in rural areas, the paper
said, where the labor force “is aging and its educational
attainment lags behind” urban areas. Health-care improvements
“have not kept pace” with large cities, it said.  
 Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, the former governor of
Iowa, said rural areas of the U.S. are suffering through a
“silent crisis” of higher unemployment, rising poverty, an
aging workforce and loss of population.  
 The administration is tackling those issues through
programs stressing clean energy, improved education, and the
kinds of jobs found at Siemens, Vilsack, who traveled with the
president from Washington, told reporters on Air Force One.  
 Obama said the plant owned by Munich-based Siemens, which
makes blades for wind turbines and employs about 600 people, got
a $3.5 million stimulus-funded tax credit in January.  
 No ‘Silver Bullet’  
 “As extraordinary as this facility is, however, wind power
isn’t the silver bullet that will solve all our energy
challenges. There isn’t one,” Obama said. “But it is a key
part of a comprehensive strategy to move us from an economy that
runs on fossil fuels to one that relies on more homegrown fuels
and clean energy.”  
 Obama also called for the enactment of energy and climate
legislation which has stalled in the U.S. Senate after
Republican Lindsey Graham withdrew his support to protest a
Senate push to take up an overhaul of immigration laws first.  
 Calling wind energy a “key part” of the strategy to wean
the nation off of fossil fuels like oil, Obama said the
legislation will create new industries and jobs.  
 “Our security, our economy and the future of our planet
depend on it,” Obama said.  
 Election Ahead  
 The trip comes less than seven months before elections that
will determine control of Congress. The most competitive House
races include 33 Democratic-held and six Republican-held seats,
according to the three Washington-based publications that rate
congressional races, the Cook Political Report, the Rothenberg
Political Report and Congressional Quarterly.  
 “Jobs is the main thing,” said Tom Rudolph, a political
science professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign. “It’s a contributor to the sour mood” of voters.  
 In Iowa, Obama will be working to shore up “Democratic
strongholds” in light of continued high unemployment and
“failed” stimulus spending, said Matt Strawn, the chairman of
the state Republican Party  
 “It’s remarkable how many Iowans are dissatisfied,” he
said in a conference call with reporters. “Iowans understand
that long-term job creation does not result from unsustainable
federal spending.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Fort Washington, Iowa, at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        