-- Obama to Focus on Jobs, U.S. Rural Economy in Two-Day Trip Through Midwest
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/obama-to-focus-on-jobs-u-s-rural-economy-in-two-day-trip-through-midwest.html

          
          
             President Barack Obama embarks on a
two-day, campaign-style swing through the rural Midwest today to
talk about the U.S. economy and jobs as he turns attention to
what will be a top issue in the November midterm elections.  
 With stops in Illinois, Iowa and Missouri to highlight his
economic policies, the president’s trip will include two town
hall meetings, stops at a Siemens AG wind-turbine plant and a
Poet LLC ethanol refinery, and talks with farmers, small
business owners and local leaders.  
 “We’re hanging on, just treading in the water,” said Amy
Looten, executive director of the Quincy Area Chamber of
Commerce in Western Illinois. People want to hear “that he’ll
create jobs,” she said. The February unemployment rate the area
was 9.6 percent, according to the Labor Department.  
 The visits are part of what Obama calls a White House to
Main Street tour, and follow similar outings in Pennsylvania,
Ohio and Georgia to promote the $862 billion economic stimulus
program and the health-care overhaul designed to cover millions
of uninsured Americans and slow rising health costs.  
 Before the trip, the White House released a 42-page paper
saying the administration is pumping billions of dollars into
rural America with programs for small business loans, education,
medical care, and farm exports.  
 It’s an outline of “what we’ve already invested and what
we hope to continue investing in rural communities,” Christina
Romer, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers said in a
conference call yesterday.  
 Lagging Behind Cities  
 About 50 million Americans live in rural areas, the paper
said, where the labor force “is aging and its educational
attainment lags behind” urban areas. Health-care improvements
“have not kept pace” with large cities, it said.  
 All three Midwest states on Obama’s itinerary have felt the
worst recession since the 1930s. March unemployment was 6.8
percent in Iowa, 9.5 percent in Missouri and 11.5 percent in
Illinois.  
 In Fort Madison, Iowa, the president will talk about the
economy, alternative energy and green jobs at a plant owned by
Munich-based Siemens that makes blades for wind turbines and got
a $3.5 million stimulus-funded tax credit in January.  
 Other stops include Quincy, Mount Pleasant and Ottumwa,
Iowa, and Macon, Missouri, where Obama is scheduled to visit a
facility run by Sioux Falls, South Dakota-based Poet, the
biggest U.S. ethanol producer.  
 ‘Sour Mood’  
 “Jobs is the main thing,” said Tom Rudolph, a political
science professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign. “It’s a contributor to the sour mood” of voters.  
 The White House report said the dollar value of small
business loans has climbed to 2.5 times the level of January
2009, when Obama took office.  Romer said rural areas also will
benefit from a White House program to increase U.S. exports,
including sales of grain and livestock.  
 “Better promotion of our exports, better enforcement of
our trade agreements, expansion of a trade agreements -- all of
those things benefit rural America,” Romer said. The value of
farm exports is equivalent to 29 percent, or about $100 billion,
of farmers’ $344 billion in gross farm income forecast this year
by the U.S. Agriculture Department.  
 The trip comes less than seven months before elections that
will determine control of Congress. The most competitive House
races include 33 Democratic-held and six Republican-held seats,
according to the three Washington-based publications that rate
congressional races, the Cook Political Report, the Rothenberg
Political Report and Congressional Quarterly.  
 Local Candidates  
 Obama, a Democrat, may “work in at least some endorsements
of local Democratic candidates,” said L. Marvin Overby, interim
political science chairman at the University of Missouri-
Columbia.  
 Missouri’s Democratic Secretary of State Robin Carnahan is
in a tight race with Republican Representative Roy Blunt for the
seat of retiring Republican Senator Kit Bond.  
 In Illinois, Democratic Senate candidate Alexi Giannoulias,
seeking the seat once held by Obama, said over the weekend the
seizure of his family’s bank by U.S. regulators won’t derail his
campaign, in which he’s facing Republican Representative Mark
Kirk. Giannoulias’s office said he will attend Obama’s Quincy
town hall tomorrow.  
 Obama yesterday sought to confront a potential anti-
incumbent atmosphere, releasing a video in which he urged
supporters of his 2008 presidential campaign to return to the
polls in November.  
 ‘Special Interests’  
 Obama said successes in overhauling health care and jump-
starting the economy were in danger from lobbyists for Wall
Street bankers, insurance companies and “special interests”
threatening to “undo” his agenda.  
 “If you help make sure that first-time voters in 2008 make
their voices heard again in November,” Obama said in a clip on
Google Inc.’s YouTube Web site, “then together we will deliver
on the promise of change, hope and prosperity for generations to
come.”  
 Obama will tell voters he’s aware of middle-class struggles
and the loss of more than 8 million jobs during the recession,
even as he points to gains in the stock market and other
economic indicators as evidence that his policies are beginning
to work, Overby said.  
 “He will urge patience and offer hope that conditions will
continue to improve,” Overby said in an e-mail.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        