-- Moelis Wins Aspect Bond Offering Role as it Seeks to Build Credit Business
-- Pierre Paulden
-- 2010-04-27T20:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/moelis-to-help-underwrite-300-million-bond-offering-for-aspect-software.html

          
          
             Moelis & Co. will help underwrite a
$300 million bond offering for Aspect Software Inc. as the
investment-banking firm seeks to diversify into capital markets
from advising companies on mergers and restructurings.  
 Aspect, purchased in 2004 by private-equity firms Golden
Gate Capital and Oak Investment Partners, is selling the second-
lien notes due in 2017 to refinance debt, said Michael
Provenzano, chief financial officer of the Chelmsford,
Massachusetts-based company.  
 Kenneth Moelis, the former investment-banking president at
UBS AG, co-founded the firm in July 2007 at the onset of the
credit crisis. The capital markets unit set up last year is
trying to capitalize on record high-yield debt sales and
Moelis’s ties with private-equity firms that began at Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc., where he worked from 1976 to 1990.  
 “Kenny really grew up doing capital-markets transactions
that evolved into mergers and acquisitions,” said Peter Nolan,
managing partner at Leonard Green & Partners LP, a Los Angeles-
based private-equity firm. “The firm has a certain amount of
in-house expertise in capital markets, and it’s logical for them
to get these mandates.”  
 Nolan worked with Moelis at Drexel and Donaldson Lufkin &
Jenrette Inc.  
 Call Center Software  
 Aspect, which makes software for call centers, is also
raising a $500 million term loan and a $30 million revolving
credit line that will refinance existing debt, Provenzano said.
The company was introduced to Moelis through Golden Gate and has
been discussing debt refinancing options since December, he
said.  
 Joint book runners Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase
& Co., and co-managers Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Moelis, may
sell the notes as soon as next week, said a person familiar with
the offering, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  
 Price guidance on the $500 million term loan is 4.5
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate,
according to a different person familiar with the transaction.
Libor, a lending benchmark, will be set at a minimum rate of
1.75 percent. The loan will be offered at 98.5 cents on the
dollar, the person said.  
 Moelis spokeswoman Rohini Pragasam in New York declined to
comment.  
 Companies have raised $95.7 billion of high-yield bonds in
2010, on pace for record issuance, after the debt rallied 49
percent in the past year, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Index.  
 Moelis hired Christopher Ryan, the former head of credit
fixed income at UBS AG, and Dominick Petrosino, the former head
of leveraged finance at Bear Stearns Cos. last year. The firm
has helped manage bond offerings for Clear Channel Outdoor
Holdings Inc. and Reader’s Digest Association Inc. and advised
William Lyon Homes Inc. in raising loans.  
 “The firm’s new but the folks came out of other top-tier
firms,” Provenzano said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Pierre Paulden in New York at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        