-- Cattle Slump as Downgrades Erode Equities, Commodities; Hog Futures Rise
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-04-27T19:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/hogs-cattle-futures-rise-as-wholesale-meat-gains-signal-grilling-demand.html

          
          
             Cattle futures fell the most in a
year after cuts in the credit ratings for Greece and Portugal
sparked declines in U.S. equities and commodities, as investors
sought less-risky assets. Hogs rose.  
 Standard & Poor’s slashed Greece’s credit rating to junk,
and cut Portugal’s by two steps, spurring gains in haven assets
including the dollar and gold. The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index
of 19 raw materials slumped as much as 2 percent, led by
declines in metals, sugar and oil. The S&P 500 Index of equities
also dropped as much as 2 percent.  
 “With crude oil lower like it is and the stock market
lower, you run into some problems here,” said Lane Broadbent, a
vice president of KIS Futures Inc. in Oklahoma City. “With the
stock market selling off, some of these funds may want to get
out of positions” in cattle, he said.  
 Cattle futures for June delivery sank 1.775 cents, or 1.9
percent, to 93.725 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, the biggest drop for a most-active contract since
April 20, 2009. Cattle have gained 15 percent in the past year
as beef demand increased and supplies shrank.  
 Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement dropped 1.025
cents, or 0.9 percent, to $1.15925 a pound.  
 Hedge funds and other large speculators held record net-
long positions, or bets for a price increase, in cattle futures
as of April 20, according to government data. Concern about the
global economy may spur those investors to reduce their
holdings, Broadbent said.  
 Wholesale choice beef advanced to $1.7041 a pound at
midday, the highest since July 2008, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show.  
 Hog Market  
 Hog futures rose for the first time in four sessions as
surging wholesale-pork prices raised speculation that demand for
the meat is increasing as U.S. supplies tighten.  
 Wholesale pork climbed 0.5 percent yesterday to 90.71 cents
a pound, the highest level since August 2008, according to the
USDA. Demand for meat is rising as the weather warms in North
America and more people grill outdoors, said Don Roose, the
president of U.S. Commodities Inc.  
 “The retailer and wholesaler continue to be the ones that
pay up,” Roose said from West Des Moines, Iowa. “We’ve just
got tight supplies here yet, and peak grilling season is still
ahead of us.”  
 Hog futures for June settlement rose 0.675 cent, or 0.8
percent, to 84.95 cents a pound on the CME. The most-active
contract has gained 24 percent in the past year, as extended
losses spurred producers to cut supplies, and as demand
recovered from an outbreak of swine flu last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        