-- Oil Falls for Second Day on Stronger Dollar, Forecast of U.S. Supply Gain
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-04-27T08:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/oil-falls-for-second-day-on-stronger-dollar-forecast-of-u-s-supply-gain.html

          
          
             Oil fell for a second day before a
report forecast to show that U.S. crude supplies increased last
week, as demand lags behind the recovery in the world’s largest
energy user.  
 U.S. crude inventories probably rose 1 million barrels last
week, according to analysts surveyed before tomorrow’s Energy
Department report. Oil prices in New York are trading at their
biggest discount to London contracts since August amid mounting
stockpiles at the U.S. delivery point in Oklahoma. A report from
the U.S. Conference Board today may show consumer sentiment
improved for a second month.  
 “Anticipation of further stock builds is putting pressure
on the market today, and the equity market isn’t lending its
usual helping hand,” said Christopher Bellew, senior broker at
Bache Commodities Ltd. in London. “Still, a positive set of
consumer confidence figures could change all of this.”  
 Crude oil for June delivery fell as much as 67 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $83.53 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, and was at $83.68 at 9:26 a.m. London
time. Brent crude for June settlement was at $86.65 on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, trading at its biggest
premium over Nymex prices since Aug. 18.  
 Crude prices also slid today in tandem with equity indexes
in Europe and Asia, while a stronger dollar curtailed the appeal
of commodities for hedging against inflation. The U.S. currency
was at $1.3356 per euro at 9:32 a.m. London time, compared with
$1.3382 in New York yesterday.  
 ‘Ticking Time Bomb’  
 Oil dropped 1.1 percent yesterday as the dollar advanced on
concern the Greek bailout plan faces hurdles and as credit
default swaps in Portugal, Western Europe’s poorest country,
show investors rank its debt as the world’s eighth-riskiest.  
 “It’s like a ticking time bomb in Europe,” said Clarence
Chu, a trader with options dealer Hudson Capital Energy in
Singapore. “At some point they can’t keep pumping in cash. That
will really cripple the recovery and affect oil.”  
 The New York-based Conference Board’s sentiment index is
due at 10 a.m. local time. The gauge probably rose to 53.5 from
52.5 in March, according to the survey median. Estimates ranged
from 48 to 57, and the measure averaged 98 during the economic
expansion that ended in December 2007.  
 Tomorrow’s U.S. Energy Department data will probably show
gasoline inventories climbed 500,000 barrels from 225 million
the prior week, according to analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Stockpiles of distillate fuel, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, were estimated to have risen
1.25 million barrels.  Refinery operating rates were probably
unchanged last week after five weeks of gains, the survey shows.  
 The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute releases
its own supply data at 4:30 p.m. in Washington D.C. today.  
 “We’re yet to see significant recovery in demand,” Toby
Hassall, a commodity analyst at CWA Global Markets Pty in
Sydney, said in a telephone interview. “Looking at the trend,
it doesn’t suggest that U.S. oil demand is recovering rapidly.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        