-- Toll Has A$1 Billion War Chest For Freight Acquisitions, Macquarie Says
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-04-27T07:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/toll-has-a-1-billion-war-chest-for-freight-acquisitions-macquarie-says.html

          
          
             Toll Holdings Ltd., the largest
Asia-Pacific logistics company, is able to spend A$1 billion
($925 million) on acquisitions to boost its global freight-
forwarding operations, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  
 “We regard Toll as the most likely player in the transport
industry to undertake acquisitions, in keeping with its
historical growth strategy,” analysts led by Russell Shaw said
in a report today about Australian transport companies. Qantas
Airways Ltd. may sell some freight operations, they said.  
 Toll, founded in 1888 as a coal-hauling horse-and-cart
business, will likely make acquisitions in the next 12 months,
Macquarie said. The Melbourne-based company has spent more than
$6 billion in the past decade expanding its network in countries
including China, Singapore and South Africa.  
 Chief Executive Officer Paul Little last year said he would
focus on “bite size” purchases. Andrew Ethell, a spokesman for
Toll, declined to comment today.  
 Freight-forwarding involves organizing the transportation
of goods along with related activities such as customs clearance,
warehousing and ground services. Toll gets about A$1.5 billion
in annual sales from freight-forwarding, Macquarie said. The
analysts reiterated an “outperform” rating on Toll.  
 Qantas may sell its stake in a freight venture with
Australia Post, the government-owned mail service, which
includes the Star Track Express and Australian Air Express
businesses, according to Macquarie.  
 “We see some potential for an ongoing adjustment to
Qantas’s freight strategy, which evolved under the previous
management team,” Shaw wrote. Chief Executive Officer Alan
Joyce “appears more concentrated on Qantas’s key flying and
cargo businesses.”  
 While Sydney-based Qantas last week said it expects further
“consolidation” in the global aviation industry, Macquarie’s
Shaw sees “little near- or medium-term prospect of any
involvement from the Australasian airlines.”  
 Qantas remains focused on ways to enhance value at all of
its businesses including ventures, spokeswoman Olivia Wirth said
by telephone today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        