-- Hong Kong Exports Soar Most Since 1992 on Asia Demand, Global Rebound
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-04-27T09:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/hong-kong-s-exports-soar-most-since-1992-on-asian-demand-global-recovery.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s exports grew in March
at the fastest pace since 1992 on demand within Asia and an
improving global economy.  
 Shipments rose 32.1 percent to HK$231.8 billion ($29.9
billion) from a year earlier, after gaining 28.5 percent in
February, the government said today on its Web site. That
topped the median estimate for a 25.2 percent gain in a
Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists.  
 Hong Kong is regaining some of its “swagger” as exports
come closer to pre-crisis levels, unemployment falls and
domestic demand improves, Financial Secretary John Tsang said
yesterday. The economy can grow as much as 5 percent this year,
compared with a 2.7 percent contraction last year, barring any
“deep downturn” in the second half, he said.  
 “Exports have recovered pretty well in the first quarter
as global buyers replenish their inventories,” Irina Fan, an
economist with Hang Seng Bank Ltd., said in Hong Kong before the
report. “Whether global demand, especially from Europe and the
U.S., will be sustained is a big question for the second half of
this year.”  
 The gain was the most since March 1992, excluding January
and February numbers distorted each year by the timing of a
Lunar New Year holiday. Exports to Asia rose 44.4 percent from a
year earlier and shipments to the U.S. climbed 4.5 percent, the
government said.  
 Record Trade Deficit  
 The city’s trade deficit swelled to HK$38.9 billion, the
most since Bloomberg News data began in 1952, as imports rose
39.8 percent from a year earlier. Inbound shipments climbed
most since 1988, excluding January and February numbers.  
 “The record high deficit will be a serious drag on the
city’s economy,” said Kevin Lai, an economist at Daiwa Capital
Markets Hong Kong Ltd. “It’s a warning that we should take heed
of, that the boom cycle in the economy is coming to an end.”  
 David Cohen, an economist at Action Economics in Singapore,
took the opposite view, saying Hong Kong typically runs a
deficit and the larger scale is “not a big concern.” The city
is benefiting from surpluses in services, generated by investors
and shoppers visiting from China, he said.  
 “Hong Kong’s economy is well on track,” supported by the
strong momentum of China’s growth and the global recovery, Cohen
added.  
 Tsang, the financial secretary, said April 21 that an
excessively rapid rise in the value of the yuan could hurt
exports from the city, which is a trading hub for China. Chinese
officials may allow the currency’s gains against the dollar to
resume this quarter, ending a crisis policy in place since July
2008, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts this
month.  
 Hong Kong is due to report first-quarter gross domestic
product on May 14.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        