-- Mongolia Suspends Issuing New Mining Permits as Companies Fail to Explore
-- John Duce
-- 2010-04-27T09:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/mongolia-suspends-issuing-new-mining-permits-as-companies-fail-to-explore.html

          
          
             Mongolia, seeking $25 billion to
develop metal and coal resources, suspended the issuance of
mining licenses and barred the practice of transferring the
permits as companies fail to explore for minerals.  
 President Tsakhia Elbegdorj gave the orders as head of the
National Security Council, according to a statement posted on
the presidential Web site. The freeze will remain in place until
a new law is passed, the statement said, without saying when
legislation may come into effect.  
 Mongolia, which shares a border with China and Russia, is
seeking greater control over its resources and this year said it
wants to retain ownership of new mines and sell shares in state-
owned producers. Rio Tinto Group and Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. are
developing the Oyu Tolgoi copper mine in the country.  
 “Almost half of the exploration license holders neglect
their legal duty to provide their annual exploration reports,”
the president said in the statement dated April 23. “Ignorant
of their main duty to explore for minerals, the license holders
have turned mineral licenses into a money-making tool for
foreign and national groups. It is possible that corruption and
bribery are committed in those circles.”  
 Mongolia has issued 4,706 mineral licenses, of which 1,096
give permission to mine, according to the president’s statement.  
 Checking Licenses  
 “Our initial estimate is that this should not have any
effect on overseas investors in Mongolia, although we’re still
looking to clarify some details,” said Alisher Djumanov, the
Beijing-based chief executive officer of Eurasia Capital
Management, which has about $100 million in investments in
Mongolia and Central Asia. “The whole system for allocating
licenses does need streamlining and it may well be that there is
corruption in the way some licenses are given out.”  
 Mining Minister Dashdorj Zorigt declined to make an
immediate comment when contacted on his mobile phone.  
 Other foreign investors operating in Mongolia include
SouthGobi Energy Resources Ltd., which runs a coal mine in the
deserts in the south of the country. Companies including Peabody
Energy Corp., BHP Billiton Ltd. and China Shenhua Energy Co. are
interested in developing the Tavan Tolgoi coal deposits.  
 “I think this is just a temporary situation,” said
Alexander Molyneux, chief executive officer of SouthGobi Energy.
“The government is checking mining licenses to make sure they
are in order. If your license is in order, like ours is, then
there shouldn’t be a problem.”  
 The Mongolian government wants to boost living standards in
the nation of about 2.7 million people, where average per capita
income is about $2,000 a year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        