-- Orascom Telecom Talks With MTN Said to Be Advanced as Deal Hurdles Loom
-- Jacqueline Simmons
-- 2010-04-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/orascom-said-to-be-in-advanced-talks-to-sell-10-billion-of-assets-to-mtn.html

          
          
             Orascom Telecom Holding SAE is in
advanced talks to sell assets worth $10 billion to MTN Group
Ltd. and is seeking to resolve regulatory obstacles that may
scuttle a deal, said three people familiar with the situation.  
 Regulators in several African and Middle East countries are
complicating the negotiations, according to the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. Orascom
is keeping its options open and also discussing possible
transactions with two other phone companies, one person said.  
 Orascom and MTN plan to make an announcement on the talks
today, two people said. MTN may say it is extending the talks,
one of the people said. Orascom spokeswoman Manal Abdel-Hamid
and Pearl Majola, a spokeswoman for Johannesburg-based MTN,
declined to comment.  
 MTN, Africa’s biggest mobile-phone company, wants to add
new markets to its 21 businesses across the Middle East and
Africa as some of the world’s largest operators, including
Vodafone Plc, seek expansion in Africa to counter slowing
revenue growth in Europe. Orascom is under pressure to cut debt,
analysts including African Alliance’s Randolph Oosthuizen have
said.  
 “MTN want to be seen as a growth company and they are very
reliant on South Africa and Nigeria,” said Martin Mabbutt, an
analyst at Nomura International in London, via phone yesterday.
“Even if this proves to be an extensive deal, it’s still a
simple purchase for them within the African market.”  
 Egyptian mobile-phone operator Mobinil, jointly controlled
by Orascom and France Telecom SA, probably won’t be involved in
the deal, one of the people said. The acquisition of the units
may include assets in Algeria, Zimbabwe, Egypt and Tunisia,
people with knowledge of the plan said April 22.  
 Alternative Deals  
 Cairo-based Orascom is talking about alternative deals with
a European phone company with a presence in emerging markets and
a regional operator, said a person familiar with the company,
declining to elaborate.  
 A sale of Orascom’s Algerian unit, which operates under the
name Djezzy, would allow the company to exit the country after a
tax dispute and damage to its infrastructure in November
following riots after a soccer match between Algeria and Egypt.
Algeria’s government ordered the unit last year to pay $596
million in back taxes, which Orascom said it would appeal.  
 MTN would need the approval of Algerian regulators for any
transaction, said Sean Gardiner, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in
London.  
 ‘Game Changer’  
 “The game changer here is what the Algerian government
thinks,” he said. “One would expect MTN to engage with them.”  
 MTN said April 23 that it had started unspecified talks
that may or may not lead to a deal. Separately, Orascom, that
day asked that its global depositary shares in London be
suspended pending an announcement.  
 A simple acquisition by MTN of units owned by Orascom may
have a better chance of success than a complex merger, such as a
proposed deal with Bharti Airtel Ltd. that the South African
company abandoned last year, Steve Minnaar, a fund manager with
Cape Town-based Abax Investments Ltd., which manages the
equivalent of $5.1 billion, including MTN stock, said April 23.  
 MTN and India’s Bharti failed for the second time last year
to conclude a $23 billion merger that would have created the
world’s third-largest mobile phone company by subscribers. The
transaction would have been done in two steps, with Bharti
getting a 49 percent stake in MTN in a cash and stock offer and
MTN acquiring a 36 percent holding in the New Delhi operator.  
 Acquisitions  
 MTN’s Chief Executive Officer Phuthuma Nhleko has said the
Indian Basin, Middle East and Africa are areas the company will
look for acquisitions. He said on March 1 that a transaction
before he leaves in March 2011 “could happen”.  
 Orascom operates in North Korea, Bangladesh, Pakistan,
Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Central African Republic, Burundi
Namibia and Zimbabwe.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at   asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        