-- Orascom Development Abandons $140 Million Share Sale on `Irregular' Trades
-- Ben Livesey
-- 2010-04-27T02:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/orascom-development-abandons-140-million-share-sale-on-irregular-trades.html

          
          
             Orascom Development Holding AG, a
resort company run by billionaire Samih Sawiris, called off its
planned share sale that could have raised about 150.2 million
Swiss francs ($140 million), after observing “irregular trading
activities” in its stock.  
 Orascom Development saw “irregular trading activities
involving unusually high volume coupled with a steep decline in
share price,” in Swiss Trading yesterday, it said in a
statement. In light of the “abnormal” trading, it said it
notified SIX Swiss Exchange and called off the planned share-
capital increase.  
 The company had planned to raise capital using a private
placement of about 2.3 million shares by way of an accelerated
bookbuild today. The capital increase was supported by the
majority shareholder, Samih Sawiris, who backed the offering by
committing up to 85 million Swiss francs, Orascom Development
said.  
 Orascom Development fell 7.25 francs, or 10 percent, to
64.75 francs in Swiss trading yesterday.  
 The company plans to spend 5 billion Egyptian pounds ($902
million) on building low-cost homes in the Middle East and
Europe, targeting Romania, Turkey and Iraq, to generate steadier
earnings growth, Sawiris said in a March 8 interview at his
office in Cairo.  
 First-quarter revenue is in line with the company’s
strategy and current expectations, and management believes it to
be on course with analysts’ full-year expectations for 2010, the
company said in the statement.  
 Sawiris Family  
 Sawiris is part of the Sawiris family, whose other
companies -- Orascom Construction Industries and Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE -- account for more than two-thirds of the market
value of Egypt’s EGX 30 Index.  
 Orascom Telecom, the Middle East’s biggest publicly traded
mobile-phone company, said it will release “material news”
today amid speculation it will sell parts of the business to
Africa’s MTN Group Ltd.  
 The Cairo-based company didn’t provide further details in a
statement sent to the Egyptian Exchange yesterday and trading of
Orascom Telecom’s shares in Egypt and London were suspended
pending an announcement.  
          
          


  


        