-- Asian Stocks Fall on Chinese Real-Estate Concern
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-04-27T10:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/most-asian-stocks-decline-elpida-memory-drops-on-chip-prices-csl-slumps.html

          
          
             Asian stocks dropped, dragging the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index lower for the third time in four days,
as concern deepened China’s steps to cool its property market
will curb growth in the world’s third-largest economy.  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. sank 1.6 percent
in Shanghai on concern lending will slow. PetroChina Co.,
China’s largest oil producer, fell 2.3 percent on lower oil
prices. CSL Ltd., the world’s No. 2 maker of treatments made
from blood, slipped 4.2 percent in Sydney after Credit Suisse
Group AG downgraded the stock. Elpida Memory Inc. retreated 1.8
percent in Tokyo as memory-chip prices declined.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.2 percent to 127.04
as of 7:16 p.m. in Tokyo, with almost two stocks falling for
each one that rose. The gauge has climbed 11 percent from its
low this year on Feb. 8 as better-than-estimated economic and
earnings reports offset concerns Greece will default on its debt.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said yesterday a Greek bailout
isn’t a done deal.  
 “Concerns about potential delays in financial aid for
Greece as well as further monetary tightening in China continue
to dampen investor sentiment,” said Michiya Tomita, a Hong
Kong-based fund manager for Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co.,
which holds $65 billion in assets. “Valuations are still
expensive. We need to see more earnings improvement.”  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index slumped 2.1 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index dropped 1.5 percent. South Korea’s Kospi
Index lost 0.2 percent. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose
0.4 percent, led by Fanuc Ltd., which surged 11 percent after
reporting better-than-forecast earnings.  
 U.S. Earnings  
 Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.3 percent
today. The index fell 0.4 percent yesterday in New York as
concern that proposed legislation will hurt banks overshadowed
improving earnings at Caterpillar Inc. and Whirlpool Corp. After
markets closed, U.S. Senate Republicans blocked Democrats from
advancing their plan to overhaul Wall Street regulation.  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank lost 1.6 percent to 4.46 yuan.
China Vanke Co., the country’s largest listed property developer,
dropped 1.3 percent to 7.70 yuan in the southern city of
Shenzhen after reporting a decline in first-quarter sales.  
 In Hong Kong, China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled
developer, slid 2.8 percent to HK$14.06. Hang Lung Properties
Ltd., a Hong Kong developer which generated 40 percent of its
fiscal 2009 revenue in China, sank 2.7 percent to HK$29.20.  
 Capital Requirements  
 “The market is worried China is over-tightening,” said
Grace Tam, Hong Kong-based vice president of investment services
at JPMorgan Asset Management Ltd., which manages about $102
billion in Asia-Pacific assets. “The concern is that this could
result in a worse-than-expected impact on China’s growth.”  
 China may use capital requirements for developers as a
policy tool to cool the property market, Ba Shusong, deputy
director general of the State Council’s Development Research
Center, told Shanghai Securities News in an interview.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index has slumped 11 percent in 2010
as the government unwinds monetary stimulus and steps up
measures to prevent a housing bubble inflated by record lending
last year.  
 Oil producers fell after crude prices in New York lost 1
percent to $83.36 in after-hours trading, extending yesterday’s
1.1 percent drop. PetroChina lost 2.3 percent to 11.92 yuan in
Shanghai, while Inpex Corp., Japan’s largest oil explorer, sank
1.3 percent to 690,000 yen.  
 Higher Valuations  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.6 percent yesterday, its
biggest gain since March 17, as speculation mounted earnings
will benefit from the global economic recovery. Stocks in the
index trade at 16.1 times estimated earnings, compared with 15.2
times for the S&P 500 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Government data last week showed sales of new homes in the
U.S. soared 27 percent in March, climbing the most in 47 years.
Service industries in the U.S. expanded last month at the
fastest pace since May 2006, indicating the U.S. recovery is
spreading beyond manufacturing and starting to create jobs, data
from the Institute for Supply Management on April 5 showed.  
 A pledge by European governments to put together a loan
package for Greece has also boosted share prices. Germany is
prepared to release funds to Greece, but “first I want to see
the program,” the country’s Chancellor Merkel said late
yesterday.  
 Elpida, Japan’s biggest maker of computer memory, lost 1.8
percent to 2,033 yen, while Hynix Semiconductor Inc. slumped 3.5
percent to 27,500 won in Seoul. The spot price for the benchmark
dynamic random access memory chip sank 0.7 percent yesterday to
the lowest level since March 22, according to Dramexchange
Technology Inc.  
 Lower Chip Prices  
 Phison Electronics Corp., a maker of computer data storage
devices, slumped 6.9 percent in Taipei. Chairman Pua Khien-Seng
said NAND flash chip prices may decline this quarter, the
Commercial Times reported. The company’s spokesman Yu Zhi-Chyang
didn’t answer calls to his office.  
 Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., China’s
biggest chipmaker, dropped 4.4 percent to 88 Hong Kong cents.
The company reported a net loss in 2009 as sales dropped 21
percent.  
 CSL fell 4.2 percent to A$32.50 after Credit Suisse cut the
stock to “neutral” from “outperform,” citing the impact from
U.S. health-care reforms. CSL tumbled 7.3 percent on April 23
when it last traded, after larger rival Baxter International Inc.
cut its 2010 earnings forecast.  
 Among stocks that gained, IHI Corp., Japan’s second-largest
maker of heavy machinery, climbed 9.3 percent to 188 yen in
Tokyo. The company said in a preliminary earnings statement its
full-year net income was 17 billion yen ($180 million), compared
with its forecast of 7 billion yen.  
 Fanuc Ltd. jumped 11 percent to 11,670 yen as the maker of
industrial robots reported full-year net income that exceeded
its estimate. Yamada Denki Co. advanced 8.9 percent to 7,220 yen
after the Japanese electronics retailer said full-year net
income rose 29 percent to 55.8 billion yen, beating its forecast.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Traders work on the floor of the Tokyo Stock Exchange in Tokyo, April 12, 2010. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
