-- How Eliot Spitzer Might Handle Fabulous Goldman: Susan Antilla
-- Susan Antilla
-- 2010-04-27T01:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/how-spitzer-might-deal-with-fabulous-goldman-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html

          
          
             It’s hard not to wonder how the
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. drama would be panning out if  Eliot Spitzer  were still sheriff.  
 Don’t get me wrong. The holier-than-thou, hooker-obsessed
former New York governor is a hypocrite of the highest order --
almost as bad as a securities firm that takes a bow for its
“ customers first ” credo, and then bets against its customers.
Not that it would ever happen, but I’m just saying.  
 In the disgrace that’s passed for U.S. securities
regulation in recent decades, Spitzer, who terrified Wall Street
as the New York attorney general who preached morals and lived
impiety, has sadly been the best we’ve gotten.  
 I was reminded of his unmatched ability to force change on
Wall Street while reading “Rough Justice,” a just-released
biography of Spitzer written by  Peter Elkind , a reporter at
Fortune magazine. Elkind, who had access to his hormonally
cursed subject for the book, offers an account of Spitzer’s
journey from a loveless upbringing, to prosecutor, governor, and
ultimately customer of Emperors Club VIP, a pricey escort
service that furnished him with working girls including
“Angelina” and the now-famous “ Ashley Alexandra Dupre .”  
 The book triggers the constant question, “How many truly
awful people can you squeeze into one tawdry story?” There are
details of the New York state “Troopergate” scandal. And
there’s lots of commentary on the energetic effort by Spitzer’s
enemies to get word out that he was sleeping around. Along with
politics and revenge, “Rough Justice” also offers numerous
reminders that Spitzer is the only guy who had the audacity to
come face-to-face with pushback from finance’s power structure,
and keep charging forward anyway.  
 Spitzer in Action  
 What might Spitzer be doing if he had clout right now?  
 He left a road map, and Elkind describes it as a three-step
strategy that moves from investigating a stinky “but long
accepted” practice, exposing one egregious violator, and then
leveraging “the resulting uproar” to change the whole
industry.  
 Most famously, Spitzer sent Merrill Lynch & Co. into a
tailspin when he called a press conference April 8, 2002, on
Merrill’s customers-last approach to securities research -- with
no warning to Merrill that it was about to make the evening
news. Elkind ticks off the classic brokerage firm defense that
followed: The e-mails Spitzer released were taken out of
context. Everyone’s doing it, so why pick on us? And, by the
way, the firm has powerful friends, so Spitzer had better watch
out, one Merrill lawyer reportedly reminded the AG.  
 Sounds Familiar  
 If any of this sounds familiar, that’s because the flap
about Goldman’s treatment of its customers who traded in
collateralized debt obligations has resulted in a similar
combination of excuses and circumstances. E-mails out of
context.  Powerful friends . And, hey, we aren’t even the biggest
players in the CDO sandbox, so why pick on us?  
 While the brokerage firm response may be wholly
predictable, the prosecutorial handling of headline-quality e-
mail hasn’t been. The SEC included a handful of damning Goldman
e-mails in the lawsuit it filed April 16. Spitzer, never one for
subtlety, would have attached a Word document big enough to fill
an 18-wheeler. Still, Spitzer’s case against Merrill started
much the same as the SEC’s against Goldman.  
 Merrill in April 2002: “There is no basis for the
allegations made today by the New York attorney general. His
conclusions are just plain wrong. We are outraged that we were
not given the opportunity to contest these allegations in
court.” Merrill then hired former New York Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani  to help it with its legal battle.  
 Goldman Speaks  
 Goldman in April 2010: “We are disappointed that the SEC
would bring this action related to a single transaction in the
face of an extensive record which establishes that the
accusations are unfounded in law and fact.” Goldman then hired
former White House Counsel  Greg Craig  to help it with its legal
battle.  
 The SEC this time -- don’t faint -- has done a couple of
things right. It sued Goldman without engaging in the inane
regulatory nicety of letting the firm know a suit was coming. It
also included a handful of outrageous e-mails in the suit --
another Spitzerism. Too bad it used that e-mail weapon timidly,
though, which allowed room for Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan
Democrat who chairs the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations, to make a splash April 24 with the release of a
trove of ugly Goldman e-mail.  
 The agency also had the bad luck of pursuing one losing
Spitzer strategy. The SEC has been the subject of a sex scandal
of its own, with 17 unnamed high-level professionals caught
obsessing over naughty.com and skankwire.com porn during work
hours.  
 Looking Bad  
 That was old news by last week, yet a flurry of fresh
coverage ensued after Republican Senator  Charles Grassley  of
Iowa released a memo recapping what had already been revealed in
several years’ worth of public reports by the SEC’s inspector
general. The memo’s release was nicely timed to help the SEC do
what it does best -- look bad -- just as Republicans sought to
criticize the SEC’s Goldman case.  
 Even when it comes to smut, the agency can’t rise to
Spitzer’s standards.  
 My guess is that a Spitzer regime would by now have Goldman
at the bargaining table, and that a well-attended press
conference would have been called to announce the next set of
conflicted, customer-wrecking brokerage firms to be probed. A
schedule would be set up to release horrifying e-mail evidence
from one firm, and another, and another. Then, bingo, a global
settlement.  
 Spitzer liked to go after what Elkind calls “a corrupt
ecosystem,” which meant that even big-name figures like  Jack Grubman  played a secondary role to the goal of cleaning up a
toxic strategy. Spitzer’s playbook worked. His successors
haven’t even mastered the Cliff Notes.  
 ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s chairman and chief executive officer, will tell a Senate committee tomorrow that the firm didn't wager against clients and didn't make a big bet against the housing market.
     "We didn't have a massive short against the housing market and we certainly did not bet against our clients," Blankfein, 55, will tell the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, according to a prepared text of his remarks. Bloomberg's Julie Hyman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
