-- Howard Buffett Will Maintain Berkshire Values, Brother Says
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-04-27T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/howard-buffett-will-maintain-berkshire-values-musician-brother-peter-says.html

          
          
             Howard Buffett, designated the next
chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., was touted by his brother
as a guarantor of the firm’s values who shouldn’t be expected to
match the investing record of their father, Warren Buffett.  
 “That’s like asking Sean Lennon if he could go write
Beatles songs” like his father, John Lennon, said Peter
Buffett, a musician and the youngest of the billionaire’s three
children. “I don’t think my brother would want to take on the
level of intensity my dad brings to it. Who could?”  
 Warren Buffett, 79, amassed the world’s third-biggest
personal fortune through four decades of stock picks and
takeovers at Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire. Most of that
wealth, valued by Forbes at $47 billion, will go to charity
after he dies. His children will be left with a legacy of ethics
and independence that Peter Buffett, 51, says in a new book is
worth more than the cash.  
 “It is not about stuff, it’s not about accumulation or the
bling,” Peter Buffett, whose “Life Is What You Make It” is
published by Random House Inc.’s Harmony Books, said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “It’s about loving your life and
doing something for the world around you and not just for your
personal gain. Those are the values my parents had.”  
 Warren Buffett’s wealth soared as bets on Coca-Cola Co.,
Geico Corp. and MidAmerican Energy Holdings boosted Berkshire’s
stock 18-fold over the last two decades. Buffett, who owns a
quarter of Berkshire and is its chairman and chief executive
officer, makes a $100,000 salary and hasn’t had a raise in more
than a quarter century. Susan Buffett, Peter’s mother, was a
Berkshire director and a philanthropist until her death in 2004.  
 Living on a Budget  
 In “Life,” which goes on sale today, Peter Buffett
decries the corruption, emptiness and bad parenting that often
accompany great wealth. In contrast, he says that from his early
20s, he was forced by his father’s design to live on a budget
and find a career. His “family inheritance” of about $90,000
in Berkshire shares, which he got at age 19, was no more than
enough to quit Stanford University and get a start in music.  
 “It was understood that I should expect nothing more,”
Peter Buffett said in the book. “I used my nest egg to buy
something infinitely more valuable than money: I used it to buy
time.” Those Berkshire shares would be worth about $72 million
today, he said.  
 Peter Buffett moved to San Francisco and found work
composing 10-second interludes for the startup MTV cable
network. He lived frugally, driving a “crummy old car,”
according to the book. Warren Buffett encouraged his son’s
pursuit of music and likened it to his own passion for
Berkshire, which he’d transformed from a failing textile maker
into a $200 billion insurance, energy and consumer goods
provider.  
 Buffett’s Canvas  
 “You know, Pete, you and I really do the same thing,”
Warren Buffett said, according to Peter’s account. “Music is
your canvas. Berkshire’s my canvas and I get to paint a little
every day.”  
 Warren Buffett hasn’t announced plans to retire and in
February completed the biggest takeover of his career, the $27
billion acquisition of railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe
Corp. Berkshire plans to split Buffett’s executive duties
between a CEO and an investment head when he is no longer able
to lead the firm.  
 Howard Buffett, 55, a director and a farmer, would be an
effective chairman, his father said after the 2006 annual
meeting.  
 ‘Big Reason’  
 “I would hope they will make Howard the non-executive
chairman,” Buffett said at a press conference in Omaha.
Preserving the values of Berkshire would be “the big reason for
him being there,” he said.  
 Buffett’s oldest child is named Susan. In 2006, Warren
Buffett committed $1 billion to each of his children to give
away in charitable donations.  
 Peter Buffett wrote jingles for clients including CNN,
Headline News and Atlanta-based Coca-Cola, which counts
Berkshire as its biggest investor. He composed a two-minute
piece for Kevin Costner’s film “Dances with Wolves” and the
full score for “500 Nations,” the eight-hour CBS miniseries,
according to Buffett’s Web site.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Howard G. Buffett  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Howard G. Buffett, son of billionaire investor Warren Buffett, speaks during a news conference at the 63rd annual United Nations General Assembly at the United Nations in New York, on Sept. 24, 2008. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Howard G. Buffett, son of billionaire investor Warren Buffett, speaks during a news conference at the 63rd annual United Nations General Assembly at the United Nations in New York, on Sept. 24, 2008. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
