-- Lloyds Banking Posts Its First Profit Since 2008 on Declining Impairments
-- Jon Menon
-- 2010-04-27T15:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/lloyds-banking-sees-better-financial-performance-says-impairments-slowing.html

          
          
             Lloyds Banking Group Plc, 41
percent-owned by the British taxpayer, reported a profit for the
first time since 2008 as bad loans declined.  
 The country’s biggest mortgage lender said today that
first-quarter earnings were helped by lower provisions for non-
performing loans than the bank forecast.  
 The bank’s return to profit came “far earlier than
expected,” wrote Andrew Lim, an analyst at Matrix Corporate
Capital LLP in a note to investors today. “This will be taken
as very good news indeed,” wrote Lim who has a “hold” rating
on the stock.  
 Lloyds said last month that it expects to be profitable
this year. The bank posted a pretax loss of 6.3 billion pounds
($9.7 billion) last year after bad loans surged following its
purchase of HBOS Plc. The bank last reported a profit in the
first half of 2008 before the HBOS acquisition.  
 “It is very, very pleasing to be able to return to
profitability earlier than many of us had previously expected,”
Lloyds Finance Director Tim Tookey said in an interview.
“Impairments are inside of our guidance on all our divisions.
This is an improvement across a broad front.”  
 Lloyds said it expects to make a profit at both the half
year and full year. The bank’s net interest margin is running
around 2 percent for the full year, the company said. The bank
does not provide profit figures during its quarterly updates.  
 ‘Favorable Environment’  
 “Lloyds is doing well, in an environment that is extremely
favorable to banks,” Bruce Packard, a London-based analyst at
Seymour Pierce Ltd., said in a note to investors. “We stick
with our sell recommendation on rising interest rates, taxation
and regulation.”  
 Lloyds fell 3 percent to 68.17 pence in London trading, the
third-biggest decline among five U.K. banks in the FTSE 350
Banks Index. Lloyds’s shares have gained 34 percent in 2010,
making the lender the second-best performing stock in the index.  
 Bad loans at the private banking and international division
“continue at a high level” because of provisions made for
commercial real estate in Ireland, the bank said.  
 Chief Executive Officer Eric Daniels, 58, said in the
statement that the bank’s profitable momentum would be
“sustained throughout 2010.”  
 Extra Lending  
 Customer deposits rose by more than 5 billion pounds in the
quarter, while lending remained “flat,” helping to improve the
bank’s liquidity and funding position, said Lloyds. The bank has
promised to lend an extra 67 billion pounds to businesses and
consumers over the next 12 months.  
 Lloyds is the second U.K. government-owned bank to return
to profit since the start of the financial crisis. Northern Rock
Plc made a profit in the second half of 2009, while Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc is expecting to post a full-year loss for
2010, it said in February.  
 The U.K. government, which provided more than 20 billion
pounds of capital to Lloyds, has a profit of around 2 billion
pounds on its investment in the bank. No decision has been made
on when the taxpayer stake will be sold.  
 Peter Mandelson, Britain’s Business Secretary, applauded
the “encouraging news” from the banks today and said he
expected a “top-dollar return” for the taxpayer.  
 Lloyds “would welcome clarity sooner rather than later”
on government plans for the banks, Tookey said in an analyst
call today. British voters elect a new parliament on May 6.  
 “The overhang of the government stake will remain a
technical drag on the shares,” Richard Hunter, head of UK
equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers, said in a note to
clients.  
 Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second largest bank, reports
results on April 29. HSBC Holdings Plc and RBS will issue
trading statements on May 7.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Eric Daniels, CEO of Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  
                       
                         
                           Lloyds Banking Group via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Eric Daniels, chief executive officer of Lloyds Banking Group Plc., poses in this undated handout photograph released to the media on Nov. 3, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Eric Daniels, chief executive officer of Lloyds Banking Group Plc., poses in this undated handout photograph released to the media on Nov. 3, 2009. Source: Lloyds Banking Group via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
