-- Toyota, Honda's Dealers in China Want SUVs, Lose Money on Hybrid Models
-- Makiko Kitamura
-- 2010-04-27T07:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/toyota-honda-s-dealers-in-china-want-suvs-lose-money-on-hybrid-models.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor
Co. dealers in Beijing say they don’t have enough sport-utility
vehicles in stock to meet demand, while hybrid models are
selling at loss-making discounts.  
 Customers at Beijing Fanlv Business and Trading Co., a
Honda dealership in the city’s Chaoyang district, wait as long
as two months for a CR-V SUV, said Wen Hai, the outlet’s general
manager. The long wait enables him to charge a premium for the
model, while customers won’t buy the Civic hybrid unless he
lowers its 270,000 yuan ($39,550) sticker price, he said.  
 “We actually sell them at a loss,” Wen said of the
gasoline-electric Civics. “They are just too expensive.”  
 Carmakers are boosting sales of larger models in China even
though they don’t qualify for government tax breaks, which
target smaller cars and are set to expire at the end of the year.
Executives at Toyota and Honda, attending the Beijing Auto Show
that opened April 23, said they aren’t concerned that their
sales growth will taper off if the tax cut is phased out.  
 “The small-car segment is growing, but we also have a lot
of backorders for our CR-V,” Honda’s Chief Executive Officer
Takanobu Ito said in an interview last week at the show. “The
Accord is also selling very well. So sales across our lineup
will grow.”  
 Honda’s hybrid Civic is the Tokyo-based company’s worst-
selling model in China, the world’s biggest car market. The
Chinese government is considering incentives for hybrids and
electric vehicles that may be introduced as early as July.  
 RAV4s Needed  
 At the Beijing Zhongye Toyota dealership, only two RAV4
SUVs are in stock and more are needed, general manager Chen
Guang Jun said in an interview. Customers who bought the
vehicles haven’t complained about Toyota’s February recall of
the model in China to fix faulty gas pedals, he said.  
 “When the small-car tax break came out, sales of small
cars grew, but so did that of the other segments,” Masahiro
Kato, president of Toyota’s local unit, said on April 23. “The
Chinese market overall still has a lot of room to grow.”  
 Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, will exceed an
800,000-vehicle sales target in China this year, the Toyota City,
Japan-based company said last week. The automaker sold 271 units
of its 259,800-yuan Prius, the world’s top-selling hybrid
vehicle, last year in China.  
 Overtime Production  
 Honda’s factory in Wuhan, central China, is running on
overtime to produce 1,013 CR-Vs a day due to high demand for the
model, said Isamu Matsuoka, deputy president of the carmaker’s
joint venture with Dongfeng Motor Group Co.  
 Honda sold 193 hybrid Civics in China last year. The model
is imported from Japan, adding a 25 percent tariff to the price
tag.  
 The models are selling for about 200,000 yuan, a 70,000
yuan discount to the sticker price, said Wen, the Honda dealer
in Beijing. Of the 1,632 cars sold at the dealership last year,
10 were Civic hybrids. By contrast, a conventional, gasoline-
powered Civic sells for 130,000 yuan, he said.  
 Toyota sold 271 units of its Prius, priced from 259,800
yuan, in China last year. The automaker said April 12 it plans
to sell 500 Camry sedan hybrids in China a month. The hybrid
Camry, Toyota’s fifth gasoline-electric car offered in China, is
priced from 319,800 yuan, the company said.  
 Buffett-Backed BYD  
 BYD Co., a Shenzhen-based carmaker 10 percent owned by
Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., delivered 48 of its
F3DM plug-in hybrids to corporate or government customers last
year. By comparison, BYD sold 290,963 of its gasoline-powered F3,
which was China’s best-selling model.  
 China’s government cut the consumption tax on cars with
engines no larger than 1.6 liters to 5 percent from 10 percent
in January 2009 and raised it to 7.5 percent this year. The
government is likely to end the tax break in 2011 as it is no
longer needed to raise vehicle sales, Xu Changming, a research
director at China’s State Information Center, said in an
interview last week.  
 The government was previously scheduled to announce
subsidies for alternative energy-powered vehicles in January. It
is still working on details after seeking advice from automakers,
Xu Ping, chairman of Dongfeng Motor Group Co., said on April 14.  
 The complexity of determining the standards and amount of
subsidies caused the delay and the government is now expected to
make an announcement in July, China Economic Times reported on
April 8. The government is still debating the details of the
measures, Xu of the State Information Center said last week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Takanobu Ito, chief executive officer of Honda Motor Co.  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Takanobu Ito, chief executive officer of Honda Motor Co., poses for a portrait at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, on April 23, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Takanobu Ito, chief executive officer of Honda Motor Co., poses for a portrait at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, on April 23, 2010. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Toyota Motor Corp.'s RAV4 sport-utility vehicle is displayed at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing, China, on April 24, 2010. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
