-- Pakistan Petroleum's Third-Quarter Profit Falls After Failed Offshore Well
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-04-27T06:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/pakistan-petroleum-s-third-quarter-profit-falls-after-failed-offshore-well.html

          
          
             Pakistan Petroleum Ltd., the
nation’s biggest producer of natural gas, posted a 3 percent
decline in third-quarter profit because of the costs of a failed
offshore exploration well.  
 Net income fell to 6.98 billion rupees ($83.2 million), or
7.01 rupees a share, in the three months ended March 31, from
7.19 billion rupees, or 7.23 rupees, a year earlier, the
Karachi-based company said in a statement to the stock exchange
today. Revenue increased to 17.5 billion rupees from 15.7
billion rupees.  
 “Field expenditure is higher because of the failed
exploration well at Shark-1,” Nauman Khan, a research analyst
at Invest Capital & Securities Ltd. in Karachi who has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock, said after the earnings
announcement.  
 Exploration at the Shark-1 offshore well in the Indus Basin
failed and will cost the company an estimated 1 billion rupees,
Khalid Rahman, chief executive officer, said in an April 6
interview. The company’s field expenditure rose to 5 billion
rupees in the third quarter, from 3.01 billion rupees a year
ago, according to the statement.  
 Pakistan Petroleum shares rose 1.3 percent to 199.10 rupees
as of 11:26 a.m. on the Karachi Stock Exchange. The stock has
gained 5 percent this year after more than doubling last year.
Shares rose because profit was higher than estimates, Khan said.  
 Revenue rose because Pakistan Petroleum’s selling price of
gas climbed by about 16 percent during the quarter, according to
Arif Habib Securities Ltd. Gas production accounts for 90
percent of the company’s output.  
 Pakistan Petroleum wants to boost exploration and
production as the government tries to bridge a shortage of
fuels. The nation imports 85 percent of the oil used
domestically.  
 Pakistan Petroleum expanded oil and gas exploration to a
record number of areas. The company is working on 36 blocks, of
which it is the main operator in 20, according to Rahman. That
compares with an average of 20 blocks in which the explorer was
the main operator in five or six, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        