-- Kingmaker Ozawa Should Be Indicted for Funding Violations, Panel Says
-- Sachiko Sakamaki
-- 2010-04-27T12:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/panel-says-ozawa-should-be-indicted-for-violating-funding-laws-nhk-says.html

          
          
             Ichiro Ozawa, Japan’s most
powerful politician, was recommended to face criminal charges
over a finance scandal involving his aides, increasing pressure
on Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama to dismiss his former boss.  
 Ozawa, secretary general of the ruling Democratic Party of
Japan, should be indicted, a newly empowered judicial panel
said in a statement today. The recommendation to prosecutors,
made by Japan’s equivalent of a grand jury, would become
legally binding if the panel votes the same way a second time.
Ozawa vowed to keep his post, saying he had done nothing wrong.  
 The case will likely further damage Hatoyama, whose
popularity is already plummeting ahead of upper-house elections
set for July. Voters are disenchanted over his own funding
scandal and a dispute with the U.S. over relocating an American
military base. Hatoyama has repeatedly rebuffed calls to fire
Ozawa after three aides were indicted in February.  
 “There’s going to be criticism either way, but it will
grow even louder if Ozawa doesn’t quit,” said Yasunori Sone,
political science professor at Tokyo-based Keio University.
“The impact on the election is inevitable.”  
 ‘Doing My Duties’  
 Ozawa, 67, is a former DPJ leader and architect of the
party’s landslide election victory last August. Prosecutors
declined in February to pursue charges against him.  
 “As the prosecutors’ investigations have shown, I didn’t
receive any suspicious money,” Ozawa said in remarks shown on
NHK Television. “I will keep doing my duties calmly.”  
 Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirofumi Hirano, the government’s
top spokesman, said he “wasn’t in a position to comment.”
Hatoyama declined to comment to reporters outside his office.  
 Ozawa was forced to resign as DPJ leader in May 2009 after
a top campaign official was charged with falsifying fund
reports. He engineered the party’s 2007 victory in the upper
house of parliament, and retains the loyalty of many DPJ
lawmakers for spearheading last August’s landslide in the more-
powerful lower house. As party secretary-general he is in
charge of determining which candidates will run in the next
election.  
 Can’t Be Replaced  
 “Nobody can replace Ozawa,” said Jiro Yamaguchi, a
political science professor at Hokkaido University in Sapporo.
“I don’t think he’ll resign and DPJ lawmakers have given up
calling for him to quit because he’ll take Hatoyama down too.”  
 DPJ lawmaker Tomohiro Ishikawa, Ozawa aide Takanori Okubo,
and former assistant Mitsutomo Ikeda, were indicted in February
for under-reporting 545 million yen ($5.8 million) in income
for 2004, part of which was used to buy land in Tokyo for
Ozawa’s fund-raising group. Ozawa wasn’t charged. Prosecutors
have three months to examine today’s ruling before making a
decision.  
 “The panel concluded it was common sense to charge”
Ozawa, former Tokyo prosecutor Norio Munakata said. “I think
the panel will force an indictment, because prosecutors are
likely not to proceed on their own since they are unlikely to
gather new evidence.”  
 Ozawa’s troubles began last March when Okubo, his chief
accountant, was arrested and then charged with falsely
reporting 35 million yen in donations from Nishimatsu
Construction Co. Okubo denies the charge. Ozawa resisted calls
for him to step down as DPJ leader for two months before doing
so in May.  
 Hatoyama’s approval rating fell 12 percentage points to 24
percent from March, the Nikkei newspaper said yesterday, while
his disapproval rating rose 11 points to 68 percent. The paper
polled 914 people from April 23-25 and didn’t provide a margin
of error.  
 To contact the reporters on this story: Sachiko Sakamaki in
Tokyo at   Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photograph shows Ichiro Ozawa, president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), at a news conference at the party's headquarters in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
