-- Papademos Says Greek Deficit-Reduction Program Will Prevent Euro-Contagion
-- Frances Robinson
-- 2010-04-27T11:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/papademos-says-greek-deficit-reduction-program-will-prevent-euro-contagion.html

          
          
             European Central Bank Vice
President Lucas Papademos said the aid program being hammered
out for Greece will prevent the fiscal crisis from spreading to
other euro-area nations.  
 “The actions to be taken after the program’s conclusion
will convince markets about the credibility of the fiscal
adjustments and will contain potential contagion effects in the
euro area,” Papademos told Bloomberg News in Brussels today. He
added that the program, currently being prepared by the European
Commission, International Monetary Fund and ECB, should be
completed by “early May.”  
 Greek bond yields are soaring amid concern the nation won’t
be able to refinance its debts as German Chancellor Angela
Merkel insists a bailout isn’t yet a done deal. That’s
undermining confidence in other debt-burdened countries in the
16-nation currency bloc such as Portugal. Portuguese spreads,
the extra yield that investors demand to hold its debt rather
than German equivalents, jumped to 227 basis points today, the
most since at least 1997.  
 Fitch Ratings on March 24 lowered Portugal’s credit rating
by one step to AA- with a “negative” outlook, saying that
further economic or fiscal underperformance this year or in 2011
may lead to another downgrade. The European Union said on April
22 that Ireland’s budget shortfall widened to 14.3 percent of
gross domestic product last year, the biggest in the euro area.  
 ‘Conspicuously Vulnerable’  
 Portugal, Ireland and Spain are “conspicuously
vulnerable” and may need funding, former IMF chief economist
and Harvard Professor Kenneth Rogoff said yesterday.  
 Papademos told the European Parliament earlier today that
the euro region’s Stability and Growth Pact, which sets out
fiscal rules for member states, “is facing the biggest
challenge since its adoption in 1997.”  
 “There is concern that the persistence of sizeable fiscal
imbalances in Europe and elsewhere may undermine the public’s
trust in the sustainability of public finances and entail risks
to economic growth and to financial stability,” Papademos said.
Still, the Greek aid program is a “workable solution,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Robinson in Frankfurt at 
 frobinson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        