-- Passengers Face Scrapped Flights as Airlines Dodge Fines
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-04-27T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/passengers-face-scrapped-flights-as-u-s-airlines-dodge-tarmac-wait-fines.html

          
          
             U.S. airline passengers face more
flight cancellations as carriers led by Delta Air Lines Inc. and
Southwest Airlines Co. seek to avoid fines for keeping planes
waiting on the tarmac longer than three hours.  
 A rule by Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, taking
effect April 29, would impose fines as high as $27,500 for each
customer when an airline fails to free passengers after three
hours. The Air Transport Association said carriers will cancel
flights rather than breach the limit, and a travel group said
flights scrapped in New York may rise as much as 15 percent.  
 “Cancellations could go up, but it’s not a bad thing,”
said Kate Hanni, a passenger advocate who lobbied for the rule
after being trapped for nine hours in 2006 on an American
Airlines plane in Austin, Texas. “The cancellations are going
to prevent people from being stuck on the tarmac.”  
 AMR Corp.’s American and JetBlue Airways Corp. kept planes
on the ground for as long as 10 1/2 hours in late 2006 and early
2007, fueling passenger protests. Continental Airlines Inc. and
two regional partners were fined $175,000 in November for
holding 47 customers on a plane overnight at Rochester,
Minnesota, last year. The fine could have been as much as $1.29
million under the new restrictions.  
 Carriers including Delta and American said they plan to
limit tarmac delays, after saying for months they needed
flexibility to keep flights on the ground to prevent broader
disruptions to their operations.  
 “We will do our absolute best to comply,” said David
Castelveter, spokesman for the Washington-based Air Transport
Association trade group. “This will result in unintended
consequences -- more canceled flights, and more inconvenience
for customers.”  
 Passenger Alternatives  
 When an airline cancels a flight, passengers will be in the
airport terminal with access to alternatives, LaHood said.  
 Passengers “can rent a car and drive to wherever they need
to go, or they can rebook their flight, or they can go to a
motel,” LaHood said in an interview. “None of that can happen
while they’re sitting cooped up on an airplane.”  
 The rule, which applies only to domestic flights, has an
exemption that lets pilots cite safety or security concerns to
keep planes on the ground more than three hours. Air-traffic
controllers also can waive the three-hour limit if they
determine returning a plane to the gate would disrupt airport
operations.  
 The rule requires airlines to provide water and snacks,
such as pretzels, when the delay is from two to three hours and
to assure that bathrooms on the plane are functioning.  
 Canceled Flights  
 Airlines declined to predict a rate for cancellations tied
to the rule. They canceled 89,377 flights last year, or 1.39
percent of total departures, according to the Transportation
Department’s Bureau of Transportation Statistics. Carriers
reported 903 U.S. flights with runway delays exceeding three
hours, and 5,410 stalled for two to three hours.  
 Cancellations tend to come in bunches during foul weather,
said George Hamlin, president of Hamlin Transportation
Consulting in Fairfax, Virginia. Rebooking passengers from
abandoned flights won’t be easy with an average 80 percent of
airline seats now filled, he said.  
 “Reasonability has departed the building,” Hamlin said of
the rule. “This is a classic case of trying to regulate
operations in a way that’s difficult.”  
 Southwest, the Dallas-based carrier with the most domestic
flights, plans to never have a tarmac delay of more than three
hours, spokeswoman Beth Harbin said. The rule may force
cancellations of flights which “we would have tried to err on
the side of continuing to operate” previously, she said.  
 Delta, American  
 Delta, the world’s largest carrier, “will either be wheels
up within three hours or back at the gate,” spokesman Anthony
Black said from the airline’s Atlanta headquarters.  
 American, the second-largest U.S. carrier, has adhered to
its own four-hour rule and “just adjusted that plan for three
hours,” spokeswoman Andrea Huguely said for the Fort Worth,
Texas-based airline.  
 In 2008, when President George W. Bush’s administration
considered and rejected a deadline for freeing passengers,
carriers said such a rule might cause delays to cascade through
the air-traffic network.  
 “All of the issues that were brought up in the long study
of this still remain,” said Roger Cohen, president of the
Regional Airline Association in Washington. “This may be as
passenger unfriendly as any rule I’ve ever seen.”  
 Airports handling more flights than can be accommodated at
peak hours, such as Kennedy, Newark and LaGuardia serving New
York City, could see cancellations rise roughly 10 percent to 15
percent in the first year, said Kevin Mitchell, chairman of the
Business Travel Coalition.  
 Business Travelers  
 In the second year, airlines will have adjusted their
operations, said Mitchell, whose Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
group represents corporate travel managers.  
 “If the airlines have one concern, it is the high-yield
business customer,” Mitchell said. “It’s unworkable to just
say, ‘I’m going to cancel, cancel, cancel.’”  
 The rule ultimately is “going to end up to be a positive
for the travel experience,” he said.  
 Hanni, who founded FlyersRights.org of Napa, California,
after being stranded on Dec. 29, 2006, said an increase in
cancellations will be slight and airlines can prevent logjams
with better scheduling practices.  
 “The airlines know the jig is up,” Hanni said. “I just
don’t think it’s going to be this catastrophic situation that
airlines are presenting.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Delta Air Lines planes sit on the tarmac at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York on Monday, July 20, 2009. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
