-- Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, Council Told to Consider Bankruptcy
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/pennsylvania-s-capital-told-to-consider-chapter-9-bankruptcy-protection.html

          
          
             Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, which has
missed $6 million in debt payments since Jan. 1, should consider
seeking Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection, City Controller Dan
Miller told a three-hour special committee hearing.  
 Miller, the first of four people to testify last night in
an “informational session” on insolvency convened by Gloria
Martin-Roberts, council president, said bankruptcy may offer
Harrisburg relief from $68 million in debt-service payments this
year tied to a waste-to-energy incinerator project. Martin-
Roberts opposes a bankruptcy filing.  
 Harrisburg, the capital of Pennsylvania, the sixth-most
populous U.S. state, has guaranteed payments on $282 million in
bonds on the incinerator, run by the Harrisburg Authority. The
payments on the bonds and on a working-capital loan this year
add up to four times the amount the city collects in property
taxes each year, budget documents show.  
 “It’s not good,” Miller said at the start of the hearing
before a silent audience of about 20 that included city
officials and union members. “Nobody wants to do it, but it’s
there for a reason,” he said. “Maybe for the purpose of
helping cities that are in the situation we are in now.”  
 The city this month skipped a $637,500 payment due on a
loan to Fairfield, New Jersey-based Covanta Holding Corp.,
operator of the incinerator.  
 Missed Payment  
 On April 23, the Harrisburg Authority told the city that it
won’t make a $425,282 payment due May 1 on a $17 million bond
issue the city has guaranteed, said Robert Kroboth, interim
finance manager. Kroboth said it isn’t likely that the city will
honor its guarantee, meaning the payment will fall to the bond’s
insurer, Hamilton, Bermuda-based Assured Guaranty Municipal
Corp.  
 “When the trustee informs us we need to make the payment,
we do,” Betsy Castenir, a spokeswoman for Assured, said
yesterday. She said the firm hasn’t gotten a notice from the
trustee regarding the May 1 payment.  
 The city has been negotiating with other groups involved in
the incinerator project, seeking a 90-day relief period from
debt payments. The other groups include Dauphin County, which
has guaranteed a portion of the debt, Assured Guaranty, and the
Harrisburg Authority. A formal “forbearance agreement” may be
presented to the council within two weeks, Martin-Roberts, the
council president, said after the hearing.  
 Alternatives to Consider  
 Council members should consider asset sales and tax
increases before heading to bankruptcy court, said Fred Reddig,
the executive director of the state’s office of Local Government
Services. He suggested following steps recommended in a recovery
plan prepared by Management Partners Inc. of Cincinnati, a
consulting firm hired to study the city’s finances as part of a
state municipal support program.  
 Only one community in the state, Westfall Township in
northeastern Pennsylvania’s Pike County, has filed for Chapter 9
protection, and the option might not be available to Harrisburg,
said Gregg Miller, a partner with the Philadelphia-based Pepper
Hamilton law firm. Miller represented Westfall, which entered
bankruptcy last year after it was assessed with a $20 million
legal judgment. The amount is about 20 times its annual budget.  
 “It’s difficult to get into Chapter 9,” Miller said. He
said Harrisburg would have to present a proposed debt relief
plan to its creditors and get an endorsement from the state
before it could seek bankruptcy.  
 “You have to meet with the state Department of Economic
and Community Development and convince them you are deserving of
Chapter 9 protection,” Miller said.  
 Opposes Bankruptcy  
 Martin-Roberts said she is opposed to bankruptcy for the
city of 47,000, and convened the hearing to make sure council
members have a common base of information to consider.  
 “There are those of us who feel bankruptcy shouldn’t be
considered an option,” Martin-Roberts said in an interview last
week. Patty Kim, another member of the seven-member council,
also said at the hearing that she opposes bankruptcy.  
 Susan Brown-Wilson, the head of the council’s Budget and
Finance Committee, said she supports a bankruptcy filing because
the state oversight process is too time-consuming, and would
require a tax increase that Harrisburg can’t afford.  
 “Bankruptcy might be the best option,” she said. “This
city is so indebted there’s really no way out.”  
 Council member Eugenia Smith said she was relieved to hear
several of the witnesses say that the city has time to consider
its options. “I don’t want to rush into anything.”  
 Moody’s Investors Service in February downgraded
Harrisburg’s general-obligation bond rating three levels to B2,
five steps below investment grade, from Ba2.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dunstan McNichol in Trenton, New Jersey, at   dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        