-- Philippine Budget Gap Widens to Biggest Since 1994 as Spending Increases
-- Max Estayo
-- 2010-04-27T06:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/philippine-budget-gap-widens-to-biggest-since-1994-as-spending-increases.html

          
          
             The Philippines reported a wider
budget deficit in March as the government increased spending to
support the country’s economic recovery.  
 The shortfall was 63.9 billion pesos ($1.4 billion),
Finance Secretary Gary Teves said in Manila today. That was the
widest deficit since at least January 1994, according to
Bloomberg data. The first-quarter gap was 134.2 billion pesos,
bigger than the 110.9 billion-peso target.  
 Philippine officials, who met with Fitch Ratings and
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services this month, may struggle to
convince rating companies to upgrade the nation’s debt ahead of
a possible change in government. The outlook on the country’s
plan to narrow the budget deficit isn’t clear as the Southeast
Asian nation prepares for elections in May, S&P said April 7.  
 “The big question mark is the election,” Luz Lorenzo, an
economist at ATR-Kim Eng Securities Inc. in Manila, said before
the budget numbers were released. “The more risk-averse
investors will probably hold off on investing in the Philippines
until after the elections.”  
 President Gloria Arroyo, whose nine-year rule ends in June,
has increased spending on airports, bridges and state programs
to a record 1.54 trillion pesos ($35 billion) this year to help
the Philippines recover from last year’s global recession. About
50 million voters will elect Arroyo’s successor on May 10.  
 Rate Decision  
 The Philippine central bank last week kept borrowing costs
at a record-low 4 percent to support the nation’s economic
recovery. Growth accelerated to a one-year high of 1.8 percent
in the final quarter of 2009 from a decade-low 0.4 percent in
the previous three months.  
 Philippine Senator Benigno Aquino, who is leading surveys
for next month’s presidential election, said April 7 there’s
“no point” in raising taxes because improving tax collection
can narrow the budget deficit. Senator Manuel Villar, his
closest rival, has said he won’t rule out higher taxes.  
 “The picture is not clear,” S&P Associate Director Agost
Benard said April 7, after meeting with Philippine economic
officials. “A lot depends on the incoming administration: what
will be the policy focus, its capacity and inclination to
continue fiscal consolidation, including passage of outstanding
revenue measures.”  
 Moody’s Investors Service raised the Philippines’s foreign-
currency debt rating in July to Ba3, the highest level in more
than four years. That was the first upgrade since 1997 and
brought the measure to three levels below investment grade.  
 Deficit Forecast  
 Fitch rates Philippine debt BB, two levels below investment
grade. S&P has a BB- rating, three levels below investment
grade.  
 The government currently forecasts the budget deficit will
narrow to 293 billion pesos this year from a record 298.5
billion pesos in 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        