-- Picasso Extravaganza Airs Met Museum Cache of Rarities, Wonders
-- Linda Yablonsky
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/picasso-extravaganza-opens-met-museum-s-cache-of-rarities-wonders-review.html

          
          
             Posing in shorts, a three-piece
suit and work clothes, Pablo Picasso stands in his studio
staring down at the camera as if from Olympus, a stocky god
challenging anyone to question his prowess.  
 The photographs were taken in 1915 when he was just 27. He
would die in 1973, intensely active until the end.  
 “Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art” documents the
career he himself found formidable with works drawn entirely
from the collection of the New York museum.  
 By 1915, Picasso had left his native Spain for Paris,
worked through his melancholy Blue and lucky-in-love Rose
periods, come up with Cubism and was entering his neoclassical
phase before moving on to Surrealism.  
 Examples from each period make up more than half the
exhibition which has only 34 paintings -- but they include some
of Picasso’s best-known pictures of harlequins, bulls, bathers,
wives and mistresses.  
 A showstopper is his chunky 1905-06 portrait of Gertrude
Stein, who would give it to the Met in 1946 and start the
museum’s belated foray into modernism.  
 Yet what sets the show apart are the 58 drawings and 200
prints -- some only now plucked from the museum’s storage. They
confirm his genius as a draftsman.  
 Dashing Dandy  
 Look, for instance, at a suite of 11 postcard-size
caricatures in ink and watercolor of Parisian friends who
patronized a Montmartre artists’ cabaret. Most striking is his
own idealized portrait, in which he appears as a dashing dandy
with long flowing hair and fancy dress.  
 Nearby is a crudely painted canvas, “Erotic Scene” (1902
or 1903) that the Met had been keeping under wraps -- not
because of its prurient content, but because Picasso had
disowned it. Now experts say he did it when he was desperate for
money. It looks like a junk-shop find.  
 Picasso seemed to change his style whenever a new woman
entered or exited from his life. His liaison with Fernande
Olivier induced his Rose Period and a picture like “The Actor”
-- a slender column of a circus performer in red tights
gesturing with his exceedingly long hands. (This is its first
reappearance since January, when a visitor accidentally tore
it.)  
 The breakup of his marriage to Olga Khokhlova generated a
chilling, bone-colored surrealist nude, while the sensual Marie-
Therese Walter brought about “The Dreamer,” a pink and
lavender abstraction.  
 ‘347 Suite’  
 Among the standout drawings is a 1908 watercolor study of a
slit-eyed, chisel-nosed female head with brilliant green and
blue shadows.  
 By the time he was 87, however, the medium had become a
primary focus, and the show ends with the “347 Suite,” a
knockout series of small, exquisite images that Picasso made in
1968. It reads as a storybook of mythical characters that also
amounts to a career summation of Picasso’s most playful figures.  
 “Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art” continues
through Aug. 1 at the Met, 1000 Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street. The
Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Foundation is the show’s sponsor.
Information: +1-212-535-7710.  
 (Linda Yablonsky is an art critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this review:
Linda Yablonsky in New York at  fabyab@earthlink.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pablo Picasso  
                       
                         
                           Man Ray/Metropolitan Museum of Art via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Artist Pablo Picasso in 1933. "Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art" is on view at the museum through Aug. 1. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Artist Pablo Picasso in 1933. "Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art" is on view at the museum through Aug. 1. Photographer: Man Ray/Metropolitan Museum of Art via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Mandolin Fruit Bowl and Plaster Arm" by Pablo Picasso. The work is part of the exhibition      "Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art" running through Aug 1. Source: Metropolitan Museum of Art via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "At the Lapin Agile"  
                       
                         
                           Metropolitan Museum of Art via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "At the Lapin Agile" by Pablo Picasso. The work is part of the exhibition "Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art" running through Aug. 1. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "At the Lapin Agile" by Pablo Picasso. The work is part of the exhibition "Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art" running through Aug. 1. Source: Metropolitan Museum of Art via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Yo"  
                       
                         
                           The Metropolitan Museum of Art via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Yo," a self-portrait by Pablo Picasso. The work is part of the exhibition "Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art" running through August 1. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Yo," a self-portrait by Pablo Picasso. The work is part of the exhibition "Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art" running through August 1. Source: The Metropolitan Museum of Art via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "The Frugal Repast"  
                       
                         
                           The Metropolitan Museum of Art via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "The Frugal Repast" by Pablo Picasso. The work is on view as part of "Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art" running through August 1. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "The Frugal Repast" by Pablo Picasso. The work is on view as part of "Picasso in the Metropolitan Museum of Art" running through August 1. Source: The Metropolitan Museum of Art via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
