-- Poland Sells 42% of Coinmaker Mennica, Plans Warsaw Bourse IPO by November
-- Nathaniel Espino
-- 2010-04-27T10:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/poland-sells-42-of-coinmaker-mennica-plans-warsaw-bourse-ipo-by-november.html

          
          
             Poland sold its entire stake in
coinmaker Mennica Polska SA as part of a record $10 billion
asset-sale program, and reiterated its plans to sell more
companies this year, including the Warsaw Stock Exchange.  
 The government and state-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego
sold 42 percent of Mennica for 347 million zloty ($119 million),
the Treasury Ministry said on its Web site today. Stock market
investors bought the government’s last remaining holding in an
“accelerated book building” process, it said.  
 The government has sped up asset sales this year to help
finance the widening budget deficit and curb borrowing needs.
Poland so far in 2010 has sold shares in copper producer KGHM
Polska Miedz SA, oil refiner Grupa Lotos SA, power group Enea SA
and coal producer Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA.  
 The Treasury and Dutch-based Eureko BV last week started
the initial public offering of a 30 percent stake in PZU SA, the
country’s biggest insurer. The 8.1 billion-zloty IPO is set to
be the biggest by a Polish company since the creation of the
Warsaw bourse in 1991 and the largest in Europe since 2007.  
 Poland plans a public offering of shares of Tauron Polska
Energia SA, the country’s second-biggest power producer,
“around June,” Chris Walenczak, chief adviser to Treasury
Minister Aleksander Grad, told reporters in Warsaw today.  
 The offering of a majority stake in the Warsaw bourse
probably won’t be made before mid-November, according to
Walenczak. Poland plans to sell over 60 percent in the company
during its IPO, he said.  
 The stock exchange, the biggest in central Europe, saw the
total value of Polish-based companies triple to more than $160
billion over the last decade, according to bourse data. Thirteen
companies started trading on its main market last year,
including state-owned power producer PGE SA, which raised 5.97
billion zloty in what was Europe’s biggest IPO of 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Espino in Warsaw 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        