-- Polish Traders Overestimate Chances of Early 2011 Rate Increase, BNP Says
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-04-27T14:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/polish-traders-overestimate-chances-of-early-2011-rate-increase-bnp-says.html

          
          
             Traders of Polish interest-rate
contracts are overestimating the likely increase in borrowing
costs next year as the central bank will seek to avoid higher
rates that could spur the zloty’s advance, BNP Paribas SA said.  
 Investors are pricing in a 106 basis-point increase in the
one-year Polish swap rate, based on the difference between the
current rate of 4.06 percent and forward contracts for the same-
maturity swaps deliverable in a year’s time at 5.12 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The forwards yield will fall to
4.5 percent through June as the central bank is unlikely to
raise rates until the second half of 2011, said Bartosz
Pawlowski, a London-based emerging-markets strategist at BNP.  
 Policy makers begin their first rate-setting meeting today
since the plane crash April 10 that killed President Lech
Kaczynski and central bank Governor Slawomir Skrzypek. The
central bank has held its benchmark rate at a record low 3.5
percent since June as inflation dropped to a 30-month low and
the zloty posted its strongest quarterly rally in six years.  
 “The market is still convinced that interest rates will
have to rise a lot in the future but it’s not true,” Pawlowski
said in an interview. “A rate cut is more probable than a hike.
Our main view is that the rates will not change at least until
the second half of next year.”  
 All 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the main
interest rate will be left unchanged when policy makers announce
their decision tomorrow.  
 Intervention  
 The swap rate, a benchmark for corporate borrowing costs,
shows the level at which investors agree to lock in fixed-rate
payments in exchange for floating. In forward contracts, an
investor agrees to deliver an asset for a specified price at a
future date.  
 The central bank bought foreign currency to weaken the
exchange rate on April 9 for the first time since 1998 to
protect the competitiveness of Poland’s exports. The National
Bank of Poland intervened after the currency climbed 15.8
percent in the past year, touching a 16-month high against the
euro on April 7, as the only European Union economy to avoid a
recession through the credit crisis attracted investors.  
 Some central bankers argued at their meeting last month for
a “temporary easing” of monetary policy in response to the
zloty’s rally, according to minutes published last week.  
 Zloty ‘Too Strong’  
 The zloty remains “too strong” and the government
supports further central bank interventions to stall the
currency’s appreciation, Deputy Finance Minister Ludwik Kotecki
said on April 17. Deputy Governor Piotr Wiesiolek is leading the
central bank’s monetary policy council until a permanent
appointment is made.  
 “The central bank is clearly worried about the zloty,”
Pawlowski said. “If it decides to intervene it would be hard to
talk about interest-rate increases because that would encourage
speculative flows into the currency.”  
 The zloty declined for the first time in three days,
weakening 0.9 percent to 3.9141 per euro at 4:07 p.m. in Warsaw,
as concern deepened Europe’s debt crisis will spread.  
 Slowing inflation has reduced the need for higher interest
rates, according to Pawlowski. The pace of price increases in
March was the slowest since September 2007, helped by reduced
growth in consumer spending. The central bank forecasts
inflation will decline to the lower end of its 1.5 to 3.5
percent target range. The economy will expand 3 percent this
year, after growing 1.8 percent in 2009, based on government
estimates.  
 “The inflation reality will argue for no rate increases,”
Pawlowski said. “The middle of the year will show lower
inflation, the economy will continue to grow below the potential
and the zloty is strong.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        