-- Pound Falls as Polls Heighten Concern Over Hung Parliament After Election
-- Keith Jenkins
-- 2010-04-27T16:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/pound-weakens-as-polls-heighten-concern-over-hung-parliament-in-may-6-poll.html

          
          
             The pound fell on growing evidence
next week’s U.K. election will produce a government without the
parliamentary support needed to trim a budget deficit that is
the biggest among the Group of Seven nations.  
 Sterling weakened most against the yen, dropping versus 12
of its 16 most-traded peers after a daily ComRes Ltd. opinion
poll published yesterday found 32 percent of respondents backed
the Conservatives, 31 percent favored the Liberal Democrats and
28 percent supported Prime Minister Gordon Brown’s Labour Party.
The survey is the latest to suggest the election may produce the
first Parliament since 1974 in which no party holds a majority.  
 “Focus is on the opinion polls,” said Adam Cole, head of
global currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “If
we continue to see this picture of the Tories leading, Lib Dems
second and Labour third in the run-up to the election, that’s a
negative backdrop for sterling.”  
 The pound declined 1.2 percent to $1.5274 as of 5:02 p.m.
in London. Sterling lost 2.2 percent to 142.06 yen.  
 The pound erased a decline against the euro after Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Services cut Greece’s and Portugal’s credit
ratings, prompting a selloff in bonds from indebted European
nations and sending stock markets plunging. The U.K. currency
was little changed at 86.61 pence per euro after depreciating to
86.98 earlier.  
 The prospect of political deadlock following the May 6
election has contributed to a 5.2 percent decline in the pound
versus the dollar this year. It rallied 2.9 percent in the past
month as all three main political leaders pledged to tackle the
deficit, which was 11.5 percent of gross domestic product in
2009, according to Brussels-based Eurostat.  
 Mandelson’s Comments  
 Business Secretary Peter Mandelson today sought to reassure
investors that a hung Parliament would not lead to instability
after the election.  
 “I think that the markets have pretty well discounted
whatever the result,” Mandelson told reporters in London. “I
think that they know that in our political system you will get
sensible, stable, grown-up politics.”  
 Mandelson’s remarks contradict George Osborne, the
Conservatives’ Treasury spokesman, who yesterday predicted a
hung Parliament could lead to a “dip in confidence,” a slump
in the pound and “disastrous” increases in interest rates that
would “paralyze” the country.  
 Home Loans  
 Sterling weakened even after the British Bankers’
Association said today that mortgage approvals rose in March.
Banks granted 34,905 home loans last month, compared with 33,360
in February, according to the BBA, which represents the U.K.’s
largest lenders.  
 “Sterling got close to the top of its range near $1.55
yesterday, and that’s always a propensity for a bit of a
correction,” said Jeremy Stretch, a senior currency strategist
at Rabobank International in London. “Similarly, we got down
close to 86 pence against the euro. In both cases, there was
always a bit of a correction risk.”  
 The pound may still be vulnerable should political
wrangling detract from action to bolster the economy and cut the
deficit, said Mike Turner, head of strategy at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc in Edinburgh.  
 “The fear is you don’t get any clarity, immediately
anyway, and it still hits sterling,” he said.  
 Rising Deficit  
 The deficit jumped 76 percent in the year through March to
152.8 billion pounds, the largest since World War II, the Office
for National Statistics has said. In March, it was 23.5 billion
pounds, the most for any month since records began in 1993.  
 U.K. government bonds rose, buoyed by demand for safer
assets after S&P downgraded long-and short-term sovereign credit
ratings on Greece to ‘BB+’ and ‘B’, respectively, from ‘BBB+’
and ‘A-2’. The outlook is negative, the ratings agency said.
Standard & Poor’s also cut Portugal’s rating two steps to ‘A-’.  
 The 2-year gilt gained for the first day in seven, driving
the yield 8 basis points lower to 1.20 percent. The 10-year
yield also fell 8 basis points, to 3.91 percent.  
 “Gilts are being dragged higher by flight-to-quality flows
as the market concentrates on developments in Greece,” said
Sean Maloney, a fixed-income strategist at Nomura International
Plc in London.  
 The Debt Management Office sold 1 billion pounds ($1.53
billion) of a 1.25 percent inflation-linked bond due 2032.
Investors bid for 2.14 times the amount of securities offered,
up from 1.83 at a previous sale on March 11. The debt office
plans to auction 4.5 billion pounds of 4.5 percent gilts due
2013 tomorrow.  
 The U.K.’s net financing requirement for the fiscal year
through the end of March 2011 was lowered by 2.8 billion pounds
to 182.6 billion pounds, the DMO said last week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        