-- Provincial Bonds' Yield Premium Is Biggest in Seven Months: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-04-27T04:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/provincial-bonds-yield-premium-is-biggest-in-seven-months-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Investors are demanding the biggest
yield premium on debt sold by Canada’s provincial governments in
more than seven months amid concern issuance is rising.  
 The yield gap between debt sold by the provinces and
comparable Canadian government debt was 54 basis points
yesterday, the widest level since Sept. 10, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Index. The provinces are forecast to
sell a record C$78 billion ($78 billion) this fiscal year to
finance deficits, according to estimates by Bank of Montreal’s
BMO Capital Markets. Ontario sold C$600 million in debt
yesterday, while Quebec raised C$500 million.  
 “The perception is there’s been quite a bit of provincial
issuance and that there’s more to come,” Andrew Hainsworth, a
Toronto-based director of debt capital markets at BMO Capital,
said yesterday in a phone interview. “There’s plenty of supply
-- it’s a buyers’ market.”  
 Some investors are reducing their investments in the
provinces on concern that growth in North America may contract
as early as 2011, said Ian McKinnon, a Guelph, Ontario-based
vice president of fixed-income investments at Addenda Capital
Inc.  
 “The market does feel heavy,” McKinnon said in a phone
interview, referring to trading in provincial government debt.
“It feels like there are more sellers than buyers out there.”  
 Total issuance by Canadian provinces will be C$78 billion
in the fiscal year that started April 1, higher than the C$77
billion last fiscal year, according to estimates from Warren
Lovely, a government debt strategist in Toronto at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce. British Columbia, Quebec and New
Brunswick intend to increase borrowing this fiscal year from
fiscal 2009, Lovely said, citing budget documents.  
 Ontario Sale  
 So far this month, the Canadian provinces have sold about
C$8 billion of debt, compared with more than C$12 billion for
all of April 2009, said BMO’s Hainsworth.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, Ontario, Canada’s most-
populous province, sold C$600 million of 4.6 percent debt priced
to yield 80.5 basis points more than Canadian debt of comparable
maturity, according to Bloomberg data. The sale reopens a bond
that matures in June 2039. Ontario sold bonds a week earlier at
73 basis points over comparable federal government debt.  
 Quebec sold C$500 million of 5 percent notes at 77 basis
points more than government debt, reopening at bond maturing in
December 2041.  
 Nav Canada, the country’s air-traffic control operator,
sold C$250 million in floating-rate notes maturing in April
2013. Green Timbers LP raised C$181.9 million in 6.838 percent
bonds due in June 2037.  
 Mortgage Rates  
 Royal Bank of Canada and Toronto Dominion Bank, the
country’s first and second biggest lenders, respectively, raised
their five-year closed mortgage rates to 6.25 percent, from 6.10
percent. That’s the third increase in less than a month.  
 BMO’s Hainsworth said that even amid investor concerns
about the supply of provincial government debt, Canada remains a
“safe haven” for many investors.  
 “The provincials have taxing authority, they’re highly
rated and they’re a long way from Greece,” he said.  
 The yield gap between provincial debt and Canadian bonds
has increased 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, since
Jan. 15, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The
widening gap has the potential to boost provincial borrowing
costs by about C$117 million, based on the expected C$78 billion
of debt the provinces are expect to sell this year, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  
 “We’ve seen increased issuance and we have a rising
interest-rate environment,” said Mark Chandler, a Toronto-based
fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets. “People are asking what happens as central banks
around the world rein in their liquidity programs.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        