-- Prudential Rises on Newspaper Report Capital in Talks About Break-up Bid
-- Kevin Crowley
-- 2010-04-27T10:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/prudential-shares-gain-on-report-capital-is-in-talks-about-a-break-up-bid.html

          
          
             Prudential Plc rose as much as
3.9 percent in London trading, the most in four months, after
the Times reported the company’s biggest shareholder is in talks
with investors about a possible breakup of the insurer.  
 Prudential climbed 1.4 percent to 553.5 pence as of
11:26 a.m. in London, giving the company a market value of about
14 billion pounds ($21.5 billion). The 30-member Bloomberg
Europe 500 Insurance Index was down 1.3 percent.  
 Capital Group Cos. has held discussions with Aviva Plc,
Resolution Ltd. and an unidentified party about splitting up the
U.K.’s biggest insurer, the London-based Times reported, without
saying where it got the information. Prudential Chief Executive
Officer Tidjane Thiam needs 75 percent of investors to back a
rights offer to fund a $35.5 billion agreed takeover of AIA
Group Ltd., American International Group Inc.’s main Asian unit.  
 “We can see the logic for the argument in so much as the
acquisition price of AIA implies that Pru’s own Asian operation
is seriously undervalued,” said Barrie Cornes, a London-based
analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. with a “hold” rating on the
stock. A breakup of the insurer could be worth about 955 pence a
share, he said.  
 The three potential buyers haven’t shown immediate interest
in the plan, according to the report. Capital Group, Aviva and
Resolution declined to comment.  
 ‘Constructive Meetings’  
 Prudential spokesman Ed Brewster also declined to
comment on the newspaper report, adding that the company has
had “constructive meetings with our shareholders” about the
planned rights offer. The insurer is scheduled to publish a
prospectus for the deal on May 5.  
 British investors including Brown Shipley & Co. Ltd.
and Killik & Co. have questioned the price being paid for AIA,
which would be the biggest acquisition in Prudential’s history.
Prudential is planning to list its shares in Hong Kong and
Singapore to expand its shareholder base in Asia before
investors vote on the takeover, which is scheduled for May 27.  
 “Having recently met a number of Prudential’s
shareholders, we are surprised at the level of concern about
the proposed acquisition,” Marcus Barnard, a London-based
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. with a “sell” rating on the
stock, wrote in a note dated today. “Shareholders are concerned
about the lack of information and detail about exactly what
they are buying.”  
 Two Acquisitions  
 Resolution, the buyout firm founded by Clive Cowdery in
2008, plans to build a U.K. life insurer worth about 10 billion
pounds through acquisitions. The firm, which aims to make two
purchases in the next 18 months, would be interested in buying
Prudential’s U.K. unit if the report is true, Cornes at Panmure
Gordon said.  
 Aviva, the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer, may want to
purchase Prudential’s Jackson National Life U.S. unit, he said.  
 Capital owns 305 million shares in Prudential, or a
12.04 percent stake in the company. The investment firm
increased its holding from 301 million shares, or 11.9 percent,
on April 8, according to a regulatory filing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        