-- Prudential Breakup Could Increase Value by 75% Over AIA Deal, Analyst Says
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2010-04-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/prudential-breakup-could-increase-value-by-75-over-aia-deal-analyst-says.html

          
          
             Prudential Plc, the U.K.’s biggest
insurer, should consider breaking up rather than buying American
International Group Inc.’s main Asia unit for $35.5 billion,
analysts and investors say.  
 Selling Prudential’s British, U.S., Asian and fund-
management units could raise about 24.2 billion pounds ($37
billion), or about 75 percent more than the insurer’s market
value, according to Barrie Cornes, a London-based analyst at
Panmure Gordon & Co., who described his assumptions as
“conservative.” The stock dropped 6 pence, or 1.1 percent,
yesterday, valuing Prudential at 13.7 billion pounds.  
 The insurer’s biggest investor, Capital Research &
Management Co., has held discussions with three companies
including Aviva Plc and Resolution Ltd. about carving up
Prudential’s assets, the Times of London reported yesterday.
Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam needs 75 percent of
shareholders to support a $20 billion rights offer to fund the
purchase of AIA Group Ltd. and will publish a prospectus to win
over investors on May 5. Investors vote on May 27.  
 “I’d like the management to consider a breakup,” said
Paul Mumford, who helps manage 600 million pounds at London-
based Cavendish Asset Management Ltd. including Prudential
shares. “It would be much less risky than going down the Asia
route.”  
 Prudential spokesman Ed Brewster declined to comment on the
possibility of breaking up the company. Talks with shareholders
have been “constructive,” he said. Barry Stowe, the insurer’s
Asian CEO, said earlier this month investor support for the deal
was “overwhelming.”  
 Capital’s Stake  
 Capital spokesman Luxman Nathan declined to comment.
Capital, which is based in Los Angeles, increased its stake to
12.0 percent of Prudential up from 11.9 percent on April 8,
according to a regulatory filing. The company has $1.06 trillion
under management.  
 “A breakup is a possibility as Prudential tries to raise a
lot of money through the rights issue,” said Jonathan Jackson,
head of equities at London-based Killik & Co., which has 2
billion pounds under management including Prudential shares.
“Shareholders are also concerned about risks such as the
integration of AIG’s Asian business.” Jackson said he still
favors the deal because of the potential for long-term growth.  
 Resolution may purchase Prudential’s U.K. division while
London-based Aviva, the U.K.’s second-largest insurer, could buy
the U.S. unit if the company were sold off, Panmure’s Cornes
said. Resolution is seeking to build a U.K. life insurance firm
valued at 10 billion pounds in the next 18 months. Aviva’s Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Moss said in October he’s seeking to
make acquisitions in the U.S.  
 Considering Options  
 Aviva spokeswoman Sue Winston and Resolution spokesman Alex
Child-Villiers, both in London, declined to comment.  
 “There’s a huge amount of uncertainty, so people are
considering their options,” said Tim Rees, who manages about
800 million pounds at Insight Investment Management Ltd. in
London. “We need to be more confident of Asia’s longer-term
growth profile before we can determine whether this is a good
deal.”  
 Prudential’s Asian business could on its own be valued at
as much as 14.7 billion pounds if the company is broken up, said
Cornes, who has a ‘hold” recommendation on the stock. He said
the acquisition will likely be approved by shareholders.  
 “Every argument the management can put up for buying AIA
is an even better argument for selling or floating their own
Asian business,” said Jonathan Newman, an analyst at Brewin
Dolphin Ltd. in London, which owns Prudential stock. “The
higher valuation of businesses in Asia means a sale could be far
more profitable in the short run for Pru shareholders than
buying something such as AIA.”  
 Divisions Linked  
 Prudential may struggle to sell any of its business units
on their own because they rely on other divisions in the group,
said Marcus Barnard, a London-based analyst at Oriel Securities
Ltd., with a “sell” rating on Prudential.  
 “If you open up Pru, it’s not like looking at a box of
eggs where you can pluck one out,” he said. “It’s more like
trying to take out an organ. There are many strings and arteries
attached.”  
 Prudential’s Thiam said March 1 the insurer didn’t need to
sell assets to fund the expansion in Asia. The U.K. division
helps maintain Prudential’s credit rating and pays the dividend,
he said.  
 “There’s only merit in a breakup if you get a decent
price,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage $21 billion
including Prudential stock at Rathbone Brothers Plc in London.
“There’s only one buyer in the U.K., Cowdery, and I don’t see
people queuing up for insurance assets.”  
 Prudential is aiming to lessen the impact of investor
unrest in the U.K. by attracting more shareholders in Asia. The
insurer plans to list in Hong Kong and Singapore on May 11,
which would allow investors to take part in the rights issue
vote later in the month.  
 Many Asian investors intended to invest in an initial
public offering of AIA Group and are likely to back Prudential’s
purchase, Thiam said last month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net 
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tidjane Thiam, chief executive officer of Prudential Plc, poses for a photograph following an interview in London, on Feb. 17, 2010. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
