-- Rahm Emanuel Says He Hasn't Been Subpoenaed by Blagojevich in Trial
-- John McCormick
-- 2010-04-27T16:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/rahm-emanuel-says-he-hasn-t-been-subpoenaed-by-blagojevich-in-trial.html

          
          
             White House Chief of Staff Rahm
Emanuel said he hasn’t received a subpoena for the June 3
corruption trial of former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich.  
 “No,” he said, when asked as he left a speaking
appearance today at the annual Richard J. Daley Global Cities
Forum at the University of Illinois at Chicago.  
 Blagojevich wrote in a book published last year that
Emanuel wanted a “placeholder” put in the Chicago
congressional seat he vacated after the 2008 elections to take
his White House post so he could later reclaim the job.  
 “Rahm understandably wanted to keep his options open,”
Blagojevich, wrote in “The Governor,” which went on sale in
August. “That’s what all good politicians do.”  
 Blagojevich was arrested in December 2008 on allegations
that included that as governor he tried to trade President
Barack Obama’s former U.S. Senate seat for campaign
contributions or personal favors.  
 Blagojevich, a Democrat who has said he is innocent, was
impeached by state legislators and removed from office last year
by the Illinois Senate.  
 U.S. Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois, the chamber’s No. 2
Democrat, said on April 23 that he has been subpoenaed by the
defense to testify at Blagojevich’s trial.  
 “I only had one phone conversation with the former
governor about the Senate vacancy,” Durbin said. “It was after
several weeks of waiting to hear from him. We finally got on the
phone. It lasted no more than 10 or 15 minutes. I suggested,
somewhere, 10 to 20 different names that he might consider,
encouraged him to choose someone quickly.”  
 Obama Issue  
 Blagojevich’s lawyers also are asking the federal judge
overseeing his case to compel Obama to testify as part of the
effort to dispute the allegations against the impeached
governor. U.S. District Judge James Zagel will consider that
request on April 30.  
 Blagojevich wrote that he spoke with Emanuel about
appointing someone to fill Obama’s Senate seat. “He did not
lobby for anyone in particular,” the book says.  
 The former governor faces as many as 20 years in prison if
convicted of racketeering, attempted extortion and wire fraud,
and 10 years for a charge of bribery.  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        