-- Rajaratnam Sued Partner for Leaving Him Out of Venture-Capital Transaction
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-04-27T10:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/rajaratnam-sued-partner-for-leaving-him-out-of-venture-capital-transaction.html

          
          
             Nine years before his indictment
for using confidential tips to trade stocks, Raj Rajaratnam, a
co-founder of hedge fund firm Galleon Group LLC, sued a partner
for leaving him out of the loop on a deal that may have made him
millions of dollars.  
 In September 2000, Rajaratnam filed a fraud lawsuit against
the founder of a Silicon Valley venture capital firm in which he
invested, TeleSoft Partners LP. In the complaint, Rajaratnam
claimed Arjun Gupta, TeleSoft’s founder, and Prabhu Goel, a
member of its advisory board, deprived him of an investment
opportunity by concealing news of a 1999 transaction.  
 The two men engaged in “blatant self-dealing” and sought
to “deprive plaintiffs and other limited partners of the
opportunity to share in this investment,” Rajaratnam and
Galleon co-founder Gary Rosenbach alleged in their complaint in
Manhattan federal court.  
 Rajaratnam, who faces federal insider trading charges in
the biggest such scheme ever alleged at a hedge fund, may have
to answer questions about the lawsuit should he testify at his
own trial in October. On cross-examination, prosecutors may seek
to use details from the litigation to show his “thirst for
information,” said Jacob Frenkel, a former federal prosecutor
now in private practice in Potomac, Maryland.  
 “For someone to bring such a claim suggests that they were
prepared to pursue aggressively access to information, and had
certain expectations about information,” Frenkel said of the
2000 suit, which settled the next year on confidential terms.  
 U.S. Attorney  
 Jim McCarthy, a spokesman for Rajaratnam, and Yusill
Scribner, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan, declined to comment. Gupta and Goel didn’t return
calls seeking comment. Rosenbach said in an interview that
Rajaratnam handled the TeleSoft suit, which he doesn’t recall.  
 “He must have felt he had an injustice done against him,”
Rosenbach said.  
 Rajaratnam, 52, is the central figure in a wide-ranging
insider trading probe that has led to charges against 21 people,
including 11 who have pleaded guilty. Prosecutors said
Rajaratnam used secret tips from hedge fund executives,
corporate officials and other insiders to earn millions of
dollars in illegal stock trades. He denies the charges.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is probing
whether Rajat Gupta, who in 2006 became a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. board member, leaked confidential information to Rajaratnam
about a $5 million investment in the bank by Warren Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in 2008, according to a person familiar
with the Galleon case. Rajat Gupta isn’t accused of wrongdoing.
His spokesman, Scot Hoffman, declined to comment.  
 60 Limited Partners  
 According to court papers in the TeleSoft case, Rajaratnam
and Rosenbach were among some 60 limited partners investing in
the Foster City, California-based company. They paid $500,000
for a 2.1 percent stake in 1997. Another limited partner was the
Rajat Gupta family trust, according to court papers.  
 In April 1999, another TeleSoft limited partner, TIG
Reinsurance Co., moved to withdraw its $10 million investment,
according to the suit. Goel and Arjun Gupta sought to buy
$2.5 million of TIG’s stake for themselves and sell the
remaining interest to favored insiders and institutions,
Rajaratnam alleged in his complaint.  
 Goel and Arjun Gupta sent letters that August asking the
limited partners to consent to the transaction and reporting
“no significant events” that would change the value of
TeleSoft’s portfolio, the suit said.  
 Crucial Information  
 Omitted from the letters was crucial information,
Rajaratnam claimed. Weeks before, Cerent Corp., in which
TeleSoft held a 2 percent stake, had announced plans to sell
shares to the public and that Dell Inc. founder Michael Dell
would make a sizable investment in Cerent, according to the
complaint. Rajaratnam said Goel and Arjun Gupta withheld this
information so they could take advantage of TIG’s interest.  
 When, on Aug. 26, 1999, Cisco Systems Inc. announced that
it would instead buy Cerent for almost $7 billion, “TeleSoft’s
original $3.6 million investment instantly became worth more
than $145 million,” Rajaratnam and Rosenbach said. “The
limited partnership interests that defendants had earmarked for
themselves increased in value overnight by at least tenfold.”  
 Rajaratnam and Rosenbach said that when they tried to block
the sale of TIG’s stake after learning of the Cisco deal, Goel
and Arjun Gupta “completed the transactions, gaining instant
profits for themselves by having deprived plaintiffs of this
investment opportunity.”  
 Goel denied wrongdoing in the case, saying he had no
communications with Rajaratnam except to be “threatened” with
litigation by the Galleon Group co-founder, according to filings
in the case. Arjun Gupta didn’t file court papers before the
case settled five months later.  
 The case is Rajaratnam v. Arjun Gupta, 00-cv-06733, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Raj Rajaratnam, founder of Galleon Group LLC, center, exits federal court following a court conference in New York on Feb. 17, 2010. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Jan. 22 (Bloomberg) -- Galleon Group LLC founder Raj Rajaratnam, arrested in October as part of a first wave of charges accusing him of trading on leaks from corporate officials, hedge fund traders and other insiders, leaves a New York restaurant.
     Seven other people, including ex-Galleon employee Zvi Goffer, were indicted yesterday by a federal grand jury following a second wave of insider trading arrests in November. Seven people have pleaded guilty so far in the two cases. Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
