-- Treasuries Advance on Speculation Greek Sovereign Debt Crisis Will Spread
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-04-27T10:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/treasury-two-year-yield-near-two-week-high-on-record-sales-recovery-signs.html

          
          
             Treasuries advanced on concern that
Greece’s fiscal crisis may spread to Europe’s other indebted
nations, sending stocks lower and boosting demand for the safest
government securities.  
 Thirty-year U.S. bonds led the gains as Greece’s two-year
yield climbed above 15 percent for the first time since at least
1998. Irish, Portuguese and Spanish notes also declined after
Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel said Greece must provide a
program for cutting its budget deficit before getting a European
Union-led bailout package. Two-year Treasuries were little
changed as the U.S. prepared to sell $44 billion of the notes.  
 “Top-grade bonds like U.S. Treasuries are going to be
well-supported by safe-haven flows,” said Padhraic Garvey, head
of investment-grade debt strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“The market is very nervous. With what’s going on in Greece and
concern over contagion brewing, few people would want to take
risk at the moment.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year note declined 3 basis
points to 3.77 percent as of 6:45 a.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The 3.625 percent security due February
2020 rose 8/32, or $2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 25/32.  
 Thirty-year bonds snapped a three-day loss, with the yield
falling 4 basis points to 4.63 percent.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.2 percent and the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 1.5 percent.  
 The euro has weakened 1.5 percent this month against the
dollar on concern the EU-led 45 billion euro ($60.2 billion) aid
package isn’t a done deal as Germany looks for further austerity
measures from the Greek government. Europe’s currency traded at
$1.3304, from $1.3383 yesterday.  
 Greek ‘Homework’  
 “I’ve said for weeks that Greece must do its homework
first,” Merkel said late yesterday, drawing applause from an
audience in the town of Soest in North Rhine-Westphalia, where
state elections are due on May 9. She said that while Germany is
prepared to release funds for debt-stricken Greece, “first I
want to see the program.”  
 Greece isn’t the only country with debt problems and there
is a risk that fiscal strains in the euro region will be “more
dramatic” than they now appear, Swedish central bank First
Deputy Governor Svante Oeberg said yesterday.  
 Mohamed El-Erian, co-chief investment officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said on CNBC yesterday that Greece’s
problem may become “more general.” Pimco, based in Newport
Beach, California, runs the world’s biggest mutual fund  
 Treasury Sales  
 Today’s two-year note sale is the second of four auctions
this week totaling a record $129 billion. The U.S. sold $11
billion of five-year inflation-protected notes yesterday and is
scheduled to auction $42 billion of five-year securities
tomorrow and $32 billion in seven-year debt the following day.  
 The two-year notes being sold today yielded 1.10 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 1 percent at the previous
auction March 23. Investors bid for 3 times the amount on offer
last month versus an average of 3.10 for the past 10 sales.  
 Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 34.8 percent of the notes,
versus the 10-sale average of 45.2 percent.  
 “Yields may rise because of the supply and relative
strength of the economy,” said Kei Katayama, who helps oversee
$36.4 billion as leader of the foreign fixed-income group at
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., a unit of Japan’s second-largest
brokerage. “The U.S. economy is on the way to recovery. It’s
slow, but solid.”  
 Breakeven Rate  
 Ten-year yields will increase to 4.5 percent by June 30,
Tokyo-based Katayama said.  
 The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities touched the highest in 11 weeks
on signs the world’s largest economy is recovering. The so-
called breakeven rate, a gauge of trader expectations for
consumer prices, rose as high as 2.39 percentage points, the
most since Feb. 4, before trading at 2.37 percentage points.  
 The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S.
cities climbed 1.3 percent in February from a year earlier, the
first year-on-year gain since December 2006, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before the report today. Consumer
sentiment improved for a second month in April, a separate
Bloomberg survey showed ahead of the Conference Board report.  
 The difference between two- and 10-year yields narrowed to
near a one-month low before the Federal Open Market Committee
ends a two-day policy meeting tomorrow.  
 The spread was 2.74 percentage points, after shrinking to
2.72 percentage points on April 21, which was the least since
March 24. Two-year rates tend to track the Fed’s target for
overnight lending because of their shorter maturity. Yields on
longer-term bonds are more influenced by inflation and the size
of the government’s debt.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed a 70 percent
chance the Fed will raise its target rate by at least a quarter
point by year-end, increasing from 65 percent a week ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        