-- Treasury Yields Drop to Month Low After S&P Reduces Greece to Junk Rating
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-04-27T21:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/treasuries-advance-on-speculation-greek-sovereign-debt-crisis-will-spread.html

          
          
             Treasuries rallied the most this
year after Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s credit ratings to
junk, bolstering demand for the safest government securities.  
 Two-year note yields fell to the lowest level since March
18 even as the Treasury sold a record-tying $44 billion of the
securities. Ten-year note yields dropped to the least since
March 23, while 30-year yields touched the lowest since March 18
after the downgrade by S&P, which also reduced Portugal’s credit
rating and assigned a negative outlook on the nations’ debt.  
 “It’s a classic flight-to-safety trade,” said Jay
Mueller, who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo &
Co. in Milwaukee. “Things are less attractive at auction than
they were, but there is increasing concern that things are
getting harder to keep together in the euro zone, and there is
concern for spillover, so it’s all Europe right now.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year note declined 11 basis
points to 3.69 percent at 4:54 p.m. in New York, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The yield dropped as much as 14 basis
points, the most since Oct. 1, 2009. The price of the 3.625
percent security maturing February 2020 rose 29/32 or $9.06 per
$1,000 face value, to 99 14/32.  
 Two-year note yields fell as much as 12 basis points to
0.93 percent, before trading at 0.95 percent. The drop was the
biggest since Nov. 27, when Dubai’s proposal to delay debt
payments sparked a global slide in stocks and higher-yielding
assets. Thirty-year bond yields declined 9 basis points to 4.58
percent, after slumping as much as 12 basis points, the biggest
intraday decline since Sept. 10.  
 Record Note Sale  
 The two-year notes sold today that settle on April 30 drew
a yield of 1.024 percent, compared with the average forecast of
1.022 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of the Federal
Reserve’s 18 primary dealers. Today’s sale is the seventh
straight monthly offering of $44 billion.  
 Investors bid for 3.03 times the amount offered, compared
with 3 times last month and an average of 3.10 for the past 10
sales.  
 S&P forecast investors would be paid no more than half
their initial outlay in the event of any restructuring of Greek
debt when it lowered the long- and short-term sovereign credit
ratings on Greece to BB+ and B, respectively, from BBB+ and A-2.
The outlook is negative.  
 Portugal’s long-term local and foreign currency sovereign
issuer credit ratings were reduced to A- from A+ by S&P because
of fiscal and economic structural weaknesses. The rating company
said the rating could be reduced further should financial
consolidation fall short of expectations.  
 Portugal and Spain  
 “The focus today started to move to some of the
peripherals, Portugal and Spain,” said Richard Bryant, senior
vice president in fixed income at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in New
York, a broker of exchange-traded futures. “A lot of the rally
took place subsequent to the Portugal downgrade, so clearly the
market views that as significant.”  
 The euro dropped below $1.32 for the first time since April
2009 and has weakened 2.5 percent this month against the dollar
on concern the European Union-led 45 billion euro ($59.3
billion) aid package isn’t a done deal as Germany looks for
further austerity measures from the Greek government.  
 Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou was last week forced
to activate the package of emergency loans from the euro region
and the International Monetary Fund, after the country’s soaring
borrowing costs made it difficult to finance its debt in the
markets.  
 ‘Fiscal Sustainability’  
 Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said a failure to
reduce the federal budget deficit may push up interest rates
higher over time and impair economic growth, putting the
recovery at risk.  
 “Achieving long-term fiscal sustainability will be
difficult, but the costs of failing to do so could be very
high,” Bernanke said in a speech today to a White House
commission on the budget deficit. “Increasing levels of
government debt relative to the size of the economy can lead to
higher interest rates, which inhibit capital formation and
productivity growth -- and might even put the current economic
recovery at risk.”  
 The central bank’s policy setting Federal Open Market
Committee ends a two-day meeting when it announces its next
decision on interest-rates tomorrow.  
 Today’s two-year note sale was the second of four auctions
this week totaling a record $129 billion. The U.S. sold $11
billion of five-year inflation-protected notes yesterday and is
scheduled to auction $42 billion of five-year securities
tomorrow and $32 billion in seven-year debt the following day.  
 ‘No Man’s Land’  
 “We are sort of in no man’s land at this point with the
auctions, the FOMC meeting and a rash of economic data coming,”
said David Brownlee, head of fixed income at Sentinel Asset
Management in Montpelier, Vermont, which manages $22 billion.
“The market may be a ahead of itself with the recent rally.”  
 Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 31 percent of the notes, versus
the 10-sale average of 45.2 percent.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed a 58 percent
chance the Fed will raise its target rate by at least a quarter
point by year-end, compared with 65 percent a week ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        