-- Reckitt Benckiser Leaves 2010 Forecasts Unchanged; Shares Slump in London
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-04-27T13:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/reckitt-benckiser-leaves-2010-forecasts-unchanged-shares-slump-in-london.html

          
          
             Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc, the
maker of Nurofen painkillers, fell the most in more than a year
in London trading after leaving full-year forecasts unchanged
and saying sales failed to grow in Europe, its largest market.  
 Laundry detergents, fabric conditioners and water softeners
contributed to unchanged first-quarter sales in Europe,
excluding currency swings and disposals, the Slough, England-
based company said today. Net income rose 15 percent to 348
million pounds ($534 million), or 47.5 pence a share, in the
three months ended March 31, meeting analysts’ estimates.  
 Reckitt fell as much as 6.4 percent in London trading, the
steepest intraday decline since Feb. 5, 2009. The maker of Lysol
and Cillit Bang cleaners faces increased competition from rivals
such as Procter & Gamble Co. as well as a sluggish economy in
Europe, which accounts for about 45 percent of sales.  
 “The issue is the European performance looks quite weak,”
said Graham Jones, an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. who has a
“hold” recommendation on the shares. “Reckitt normally comes
out with a strong start and that establishes things for the
year, so that’s what’s weighing on the shares.”  
 The stock was down 199 pence, or 5.4 percent, to 3,456
pence as of 2 p.m. local time. The decline was the steepest in
the U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 Index.  
 ‘Challenging Environment’  
 Europe “continues to be a challenging environment,” Chief
Executive Officer Bart Becht said on a conference call. “We’ve
seen market growth rates of max 3 percent and clearly have weak
spots in southern Europe and to some extent in eastern Europe.”  
 Becht also said “it was not a good flu season” in the
U.S. and Europe, which hurt sales of products such as Nurofen,
Mucinex cough medicine and Gaviscon heartburn medicine.  
 Reckitt said it is still forecasting revenue growth of more
than 5 percent for the year and an increase of more than 10
percent in operating profit. The targets are stated at constant
exchange rates and exclude the pharmaceuticals division.  
 “Merely reiterating full-year guidance has almost become a
negative when investors have become so accustomed to Reckitt
regularly increasing guidance,” Andrew Wood, an analyst at
Bernstein Research, said in an e-mail. “The core performance
can best be described as OK, which is not what investors have
come to expect.” Wood has a “market-perform” rating.  
 Revenue from Subutex and Suboxone, prescription drugs which
are used to treat heroin dependency, rose 30 percent in the
quarter to 131 million pounds, the company said.  
 Reckitt expects sales at its pharmaceutical division to
slump by as much as 80 percent in the U.S. when generics flood
the market for Suboxone, which lost its exclusivity status last
October. So far, no generic competitors have emerged.  
 “The continued absence of competition to Suboxone could
force us to increase our forecasts for the pharma division,”
Andreas Riemann, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said
in a report before the release. Riemann has a ‘hold’
recommendation on the shares.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        