-- Redstone Slams Murdoch's Newspaper Focus, Says `Ink' Business Is Dying Out
-- Andy Fixmer
-- 2010-04-27T14:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/redstone-slams-murdoch-s-newspaper-focus-says-ink-business-is-dying-out.html

          
          
             Viacom Inc. Chairman Sumner
Redstone, taking aim at media rival Rupert Murdoch, chastised
the News Corp. chairman for investing in newspapers and said the
“ink” industry will be out of business in two years.  
 Redstone, who controls New York-based Viacom and CBS Corp.,
criticized Murdoch for paying $5.5 billion in 2007 to purchase
Dow Jones & Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal. He called
News Corp.’s New York Post “a gossip” publication and said
there “won’t be any newspapers in two years.”  
 “You have to be careful of any newspapers that Rupert
Murdoch runs,” Redstone said yesterday at the Milken Institute
Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California. “He’ll put
anything in them, except himself.”  
 Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to
comment. The New York-based company this week started a local
edition of the Wall Street Journal, challenging the New York
Times for ads and readers. News Corp. also owns the Twentieth
Century Fox film business, Fox TV network and cable channels Fox
News and F/X.  
 Redstone said his media businesses are better positioned
for longevity than newspapers owned by Murdoch.  
 “He lives in ink, and I live in movies and television,”
Redstone said. “Ink is going to go away, and movies and
television will be here forever, like me.”  
 Redstone, 86, for the second straight year told an audience
at the event that he plans “to live forever,” and that he
continues to “eat and drink every antioxidant known to man.”
His family holding company, National Amusements Inc., was forced
to sell CBS and Viacom stock in October 2008 to satisfy lenders.  
 CBS Chief Executive Officer Leslie Moonves, speaking in an
interview at the event, said advertising “is not back to pre-
recession levels, but business is very good.”  
 Ad sales at CBS’s television network are approaching pre-
recession levels, Moonves said, and are recovering faster than
local advertising at television stations. Radio advertising has
increased for the first time in five years, he said.  
 Viacom, the owner of Paramount Pictures, MTV and Comedy
Central, fell 80 cents to $35.80 at 10 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares had gained 88 percent in
the past year before today. CBS lost 32 cents to $16 and has
almost tripled in the past 12 months.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net 
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        