-- Refco Investors' Suit Against Mayer Brown Law Firm Barred by Appeals Court
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-04-27T15:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/refco-investors-suit-against-mayer-brown-law-firm-barred-by-appeals-court.html

          
          
             Mayer Brown LLP and a former
partner of the Chicago-based law firm can’t be sued by Refco
Inc. investors over work done for the futures trader that
collapsed after a fraud was discovered, an appeals court said.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan today upheld a 2009
lower-court ruling that barred Refco investors from suing. The
issue before the three-judge panel was whether a company’s
outside counsel can be liable for false statements that the
lawyers created but which were not attributed to the firm or its
attorneys when they were disseminated.  
 “We hold that a secondary actor can be liable for false
statements in a private damages action for securities fraud only
if the statements are attributed to the defendant at the time
the statements are disseminated,” the court said.  
 U.S. District Judge Gerard Lynch in New York in March 2009
threw out the case against the law firm and Joseph Collins, the
former partner who was in charge of Refco’s account.  
 Under federal securities law and a U.S. Supreme Court case
called Stoneridge, they couldn’t be sued by individual investors
for aiding a fraud. Lynch ruled.  
 Refco, once the biggest independent U.S. futures firm, was
closely held until August 2005, when it raised $670 million in
an initial public offering. Two months later, the company
collapsed in bankruptcy after disclosing that Chief Executive
Officer Phillip Bennett owed it hundreds of millions of dollars.  
 Bennett pleaded guilty to bank fraud and money laundering
and is serving a 16-year sentence. Collins, a former partner at
the law firm, was convicted of drafting documents for
transactions that hid loans and public filings that Refco used
in attracting $2.4 billion from banks and investors.  
 The case is PIMCO v. Mayer Brown, 09-1619, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court
at   glovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        