-- Republican Rejection of Finance Bill May Open Party to Attacks
-- Catherine Dodge
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/republicans-rejection-of-financial-reform-bill-may-open-party-to-attacks.html

          
          
             Senate Republicans blocked debate
over new financial rules on the eve of a congressional hearing
involving Goldman Sachs Group Inc., a move that may open the
party to attacks that it’s soft on Wall Street.  
 Democrats failed on a 57-41 vote yesterday, with 60 votes
needed, to overcome unanimous Republican opposition and begin
consideration of the bill calling for the biggest restructuring
of financial market oversight since the 1930s.  
 The defeat comes as Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs’s
chairman and chief executive officer, is scheduled to testify
today before a Senate panel investigating Wall Street’s role in
the financial crisis. The Securities and Exchange Commission on
April 16 sued Goldman Sachs, alleging the bank defrauded
investors. Goldman Sachs denies wrongdoing.  
 “The confluence of the Goldman charges and the bill, which
seeks to regulate abuses, puts added pressure on Republicans,”
said Stuart Rothenberg, publisher of the nonpartisan Rothenberg
Political Report.  
 Democrats say Republicans are protecting Wall Street at the
expense of millions of Americans who lost jobs after the crisis.
Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid said the vote shows
Republicans want to “protect the big banks.”  
 Republicans say the legislation would guarantee future
bailouts of Wall Street banks and create new bureaucracies.  
 “All of us want to deliver a reform bill that will tighten
the screws on Wall Street,” Senate Republican leader Mitch
McConnell of Kentucky said on the Senate floor. “But we’re not
going to be rushed on another massive bill based on the
assurances of our friends on the other side.”  
 More Votes Ahead  
 Reid said he expects to have more votes to try to move the
bill to a floor debate. His spokesman, Jim Manley, said the
Nevada Democrat might call for a motion today to reconsider the
vote or schedule one tomorrow.  
 Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd, the
Connecticut Democrat who wrote the bill, said he will continue
negotiating with Senator Richard Shelby, of Alabama, the top
Republican on the banking panel.  
 Democrats are seeking to advance legislation, sought by
President Barack Obama, to rewrite the rules governing the
financial-services industry in response to the worst economic
crisis since the Great Depression.  
 Derivatives Deal Reached  
 The measure is aimed at averting a repeat of the $700
billion in taxpayer-funded aid to firms including Citigroup Inc.
and American International Group Inc.  
 It would set up a new regulator to guard consumers against
abuse and deception in such instruments as mortgages, credit
cards or loans. It would create a mechanism to dismantle
systemically important financial firms when they fail, and
strengthen oversight of derivatives and hedge funds.  
 Senate Democrats yesterday reached agreement on a key part
of the bill, covering derivatives language, including a
provision that would force commercial banks to wall off their
swaps trading desks. It would also require mandatory clearing
and exchange trading for standardized derivative products and
impose a fiduciary duty on banks that trade derivatives with
municipalities.  
 The accord may complicate the road ahead, since a Federal
Reserve analysis said the provision regarding swaps trading
desks at banks “would be highly disruptive and costly” for the
companies and their customers.  
 Public Backs Overhaul  
      The debate is taking place against a backdrop of public
support for tougher regulations on Wall Street. About two-thirds
of Americans back tighter rules for banks and other financial
institutions, according to an April 22-25 Washington Post/ABC
News poll.  
 The Obama administration yesterday threw its support behind
the Senate Democratic legislation and warned it will oppose
efforts to weaken it.  
 Jennifer Duffy, senior editor at the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report in Washington, said “being labeled as friends
of Wall Street” is “the biggest risk” for Republicans. At the
same time, Republicans are pointing out that Democrats have
taken money in political donations from Wall Street, she said.  
 Both parties are trying to tap into voter anger at Wall
Street and bailouts for banks as Americans suffered record home
foreclosures and rising unemployment.  
 Tapping Into Distrust  
 Republicans want to use their unified opposition as
leverage to win concessions from Democrats in negotiations on a
compromise.  
 John Fortier, a scholar at the American Enterprise
Institute in Washington, said while Republicans may be
“skittish” about being portrayed as on the side of Wall
Street, they also are tapping into public distrust of
Washington.  
 “The distrust-of-government issue is strong enough that
they are not quaking in their boots about being tagged as pro-
Wall Street,” he said.  
 If a bipartisan agreement is eventually reached,
“Republicans are going to say they made the bill better,”
Rothenberg said.  
 The House approved its financial-regulation plan in
December, and the two chambers’ bills would have to be melded
before the measure could go to Obama to be signed into law.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lloyd C. Blankfein, of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., chats with other attendees prior to a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama speech about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York, on April 22, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., chats with other attendees prior to a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama speech about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Peter Cook reports on yesterday's U.S. Senate vote blocking Democrats from advancing their plan to overhaul the regulation of financial services.
     No Republicans broke ranks to join Democrats in the 57-41 vote, with 60 needed to begin consideration of the bill. The defeat comes as Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs’s chairman and chief executive officer, prepared to testify today before a Senate panel investigating Wall Street’s role in the financial crisis.  Bloomberg's Linzie Janis also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Daniel Sparks, former partner and head of mortgages with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., left to right, Joshua Birnbaum, former managing director of structured products group trading with Goldman, Michael Swenson, managing director of structured products group trading with Goldman, and Fabrice Tourre, executive director of structured products group trading with Goldman Sachs Inc., are sworn in during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
