-- Bank of Japan Said to Face Resistance on Boosting Stimulus
-- Mayumi Otsuma
-- 2010-04-28T00:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/resistance-to-boosting-boj-stimulus-said-to-rise-on-japan-recovery-signs.html

          
          
             Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki
Shirakawa may find resistance among board members to expanding
an emergency loan program after economic reports indicated the
recovery is strengthening.
     More members may oppose boosting the fund after two voted
against doubling it to 20 trillion yen ($214 billion) last
month, a person familiar with the matter said. The bank has yet
to fully judge the impact of that step, said a second person
informed of the matter. They spoke on condition of anonymity
because the talks before the April 30 BOJ meeting were private.
     The potential split reflects signs of a rebound --
including unemployment at an 11-month low and the biggest gain
in retail sales in 13 years -- with a lingering threat of
deflation. Some board members may argue that enlarging the
bank-loan program would help assure consumer prices rise, said
economist Hiroaki Muto.
     “We can’t completely rule out the chance that the BOJ
will take more action this week, as the end of deflation is
still far away,” said Muto, a senior economist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “But more board members
will oppose easing amid improving signs for prices and economic
growth.”
     The central bank may upgrade its twice-yearly outlook for
gross domestic product and prices at the meeting. Policy makers
will predict an inflation rate of at least zero for the year
ending March 2012, up from the current estimate for a 0.2
percent drop, according to 14 of 16 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  
 Fall Short  
 The projections are likely to fall short of the 1 percent
rate that the central bank regards as meeting price stability,
according to the median estimate of board members. The
International Monetary Fund said last week that the BOJ must
remain open to widening monetary easing to beat deflation.  
 Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama’s government wants even
higher inflation, with Finance Minister Naoto Kan last week
calling for price gains of as much as 2 percent and the ruling
Democratic Party of Japan saying it may include a target in its
platform for a July election.  
 “The government and the ruling party won’t stop urging
more easing unless a recovery is perceived more widely and
solid price increases are achieved,” said Jun Ishii, chief
fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “The government may intensify pressure in June, when it
reveals economic growth strategies and fiscal reform plans.”  
 European Crisis  
 Europe’s mounting debt woes may damp the Bank of Japan’s
growing optimism. Global stocks tumbled after credit-rating
downgrades of Greece and Portugal spurred concern the debt
crisis in Europe will derail the global recovery. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average lost 2.8 percent at 9:45 a.m. in Tokyo, the
biggest drop since February.  
 Shirakawa and his seven colleagues will keep the benchmark
interest rate at 0.1 percent at the meeting, according to all
16 economists. Thirteen expect the bank to refrain from adding
funds.  
 The board’s policy decision and economic forecasts are
scheduled to come hours after the government publishes data for
March that may point to a sustained recovery, along with
persistent deflation.  
 Industrial production climbed 0.8 percent from the
previous month, the jobless rate held at 4.9 percent and
household spending rebounded, according to the median estimates
of economists. Meanwhile consumer prices excluding fresh food,
the bank’s preferred gauge, likely slid 1.2 percent from a year
earlier, the survey of analysts showed.  
 Retail Sales Soar  
 Japan’s rebound from its worst postwar recession is
spreading from exporters, with Trade Ministry figures today
showing retail sales climbed 4.7 percent in March from a year
ago, the biggest increase since March 1997. Seven & I Holdings
Co. and Fast Retailing Co., the nation’s biggest retailers by
market value, raised their profit forecasts this month.  
 Governor Shirakawa has repeatedly said this month that the
risk of another downturn has “pretty much gone.”  
 Some policy makers have indicated they are open to more
action to cement the recovery, while others say it’s not needed.  
 Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura and board member Ryuzo
Miyao have said over the past month that the effect of monetary
easing may be more pronounced when the economy is picking up.  
 BOJ Dissenters  
 By contrast, Miyako Suda and Tadao Noda opposed the
doubling of the lending program in March, saying it wasn’t
justified because of the economy’s improvement.  
 The IMF cited a stronger yen as a risk for Japan’s
recovery this year, given the economy’s reliance on exports
rather than domestic demand.  
 Japan’s currency has gained 1 percent against the dollar
and 2.6 percent versus the euro this week on concern that
Europe’s debt problems will spread. A surge in the yen to a 14-
year high in November prompted the BOJ to introduce the bank-
loan program, which offers funds to lenders at the 0.1 percent
overnight rate, for three months.  
 Any further monetary easing would focus on expanding the
loan facility rather than “monetizing” the nation’s record
debt by increasing its monthly purchases of government bonds,
Sumitomo Mitsui’s Muto said. The central bank currently
purchases 1.8 trillion yen of sovereign debt each month.  
 “The BOJ will try to avert political calls for drastic
monetization measures,” Muto said. “But the problem is, the
bank can’t depend on this tool limitlessly as there isn’t much
room left to beef it up.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Masaaki Shirakawa, governor of the Bank of Japan  
                       
                         
                           Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A file photograph shows Masaaki Shirakawa, governor of the Bank of Japan, speaking during a news conference in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A file photograph shows Masaaki Shirakawa, governor of the Bank of Japan, speaking during a news conference in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
