-- U.K. Retail Sales Expectations Reach the Highest in Five Months, CBI Says
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-04-27T10:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/retail-sales-index-unchanged-in-april-industry-association-report-shows.html

          
          
             A U.K. retail index stayed
positive in April as expectations of sales rose to a five-month
high, the Confederation of British Industry said.  
 Retailers saying sales volumes rose from a year earlier
outnumbered those reporting declines by 13 percentage points,
the same as last month, the nation’s biggest business lobby said
in a statement today in London. The gauge of expectations rose
to 17 from 14 in April. The report is based on a survey of 75
companies between March 24 and April 14.  
 U.K. retail spending is recovering after the worst
recession on record drove unemployment to a 16-year high in the
quarter through February. The economy has taken center stage in
the campaign for the May 6 election as Prime Minister Gordon
Brown argues that stimulus is still needed to aid the pickup.  
 “Spring has landed on the high street with some modest but
welcome sales growth and that improvement is expected to carry
on into early May,” Andy Clarke, chairman of the CBI
distributive trades panel and chief operating officer of Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda business, said in the statement.
“However, the U.K. economy remains in a fragile place and last
week’s higher unemployment figures will have unsettled many
shoppers.”  
 Footwear and food grocers reported “strong” annual sales
growth, while trading at home-improvement stores stabilized
after three months of declines, the CBI said. The gauge tracking
the three-month moving average pace of overall retail sales
growth gained seven percentage points to 16 in April, the
highest since August 2007, the group said.  
 Today’s CBI data “suggests that consumers aren’t letting
the looming fiscal squeeze stop them from spending,” Vicky
Redwood, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in an e-
mail today. “We still have our concerns about spending in the
second half of the year, but for now, consumers still seem to be
playing their part in the wider economic recovery.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        