-- Ruble's Gains May Force Russia to Seek to Protect Industry, Shuvalov Says
-- Paul Abelsky
-- 2010-04-27T09:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/ruble-s-advance-may-force-russia-to-protect-industry-deputy-premier-says.html

          
          
             The ruble’s appreciation in the
next few years will force the government to subsidize heavy
industry and raise import tariffs to keep Russian producers
competitive, First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov said.  
 “In the long term, or even a period of three or five
years, we will observe the strengthening of the ruble,”
Shuvalov told reporters in Washington late yesterday. “The
ruble will appreciate and a few industries will suffer.”  
 The Russian currency, which has been trading at its
strongest level since December 2008 against the central bank’s
basket of dollars and euros, hasn’t yet “appreciated that
dramatically,” Shuvalov said.  
 The administration of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has
been powerless to stem gains in the ruble, which has surged 15
percent against the dollar in the past 12 months, tracking a 75
percent rise in Urals crude in the same period. The government,
which is putting pressure on the central bank to do more to cap
the ruble’s rise, may resort to a tax on currency transactions
to protect exporters in industries including car manufacture,
Shuvalov said today.  
 “We now understand that we will need to provide subsidies
for different sectors, or we will need to have or use tariffs,”
Shuvalov said. “If we want to have our local and well developed
car industries we would need to keep high tariffs for at least
five years.”  
 Car Industry  
 Revamping Russia’s automobile industry will require as much
as 1.8 trillion rubles ($61.8 billion) of investment through
2020, the government estimates. Carmakers must invest more than
627 billion rubles to overhaul the industry and the government
will spend about 180 billion rubles.  
 Russia’s share of non-energy world exports decreased to 0.9
percent at the end of last year, bringing it to 2005 levels,
from 1.01 percent in 2008, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in an April
15 report.  
 Russian car sales plunged 56 percent last year to 1.4
million vehicles and may rise as much as 15 percent this year,
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a Jan. 20 presentation. Under a
pessimistic economic scenario, sales may slide as much as 5
percent this year, the audit firm said.  
 Ruble non-deliverable forwards today show the currency 12
percent weaker at 32.56 per dollar in three years time. That
compares to an expectation the Russian currency will weaken 42
percent to 47.14 a year ago, three-year NDFs show. The contracts
are a guide to expectations of currency movements as they allow
foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange rate at a
particular level in the future.  
 Raised Duties  
 The government raised duties at the start of last year on
imported new and used cars, to protect domestic producers. The
tariffs range from 30 percent to 35 percent.  
 Deere & Co., the world’s largest maker of agricultural
equipment, and Caterpillar Inc. were most affected by loan
restrictions and tariffs of as much as 25 percent imposed by
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, according to a U.S. Chamber of
Commerce survey last year of the top 50 American businesses in
Russia.  
 “Discriminatory” trade policies will slow Russia’s
recovery and should be “reversed or allowed to expire as soon
as possible,” the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a report last November.  
 To bolster efforts to contain speculative capital inflows,
Russia’s government may levy a tax on capital transactions,
Shuvalov said.  
 Capital Tax  
 “Maybe we will do something, which is not capital
controls, but would be based on taxation,” Shuvalov said.
Experts from the Finance Ministry and the Economy Ministry are
studying steps that may be taken to limit short-term inflows, he
said.  
 Russia’s central bank, which has lowered its benchmark rate
12 times in as many months to a record-low 8.25 percent, has
tried to use the cuts to stem the inflow of short-term foreign
capital in an effort to contain ruble volatility.  
 Brazil in 2009 implemented a tax on foreign purchases of
stocks and fixed-income investment in a bid to stem the
currency’s advance, while Indonesia’s central bank warned it may
impose capital controls to curb speculative inflows. India “may
well employ” some form of capital controls on inflows should
such investments gain pace, central bank Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao said yesterday.  
 Brazilian Model  
 “Many people say that we need to impose new legislation
which will be against quick and speculative operations on the
market,” Shuvalov said. “They say that Brazil has very good
rules.”  
 Equity funds focused on Russia posted inflows of $106
million in the week ending April 21, showing gains for the 10th
consecutive week, according to fund tracker EPFR Global.  
 Russia abolished capital controls in 2006. The
International Monetary Fund said in a Feb. 19 report that
“there may be circumstances in which capital controls are a
legitimate component of the policy response to surges in capital
inflows.”  
 The Russian currency is about 25 percent undervalued, given
the current oil price, according to UBS AG. The ruble is “20
percent cheap” compared with the currencies of Brazil, Canada,
Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, ING Groep NV said in a
report this month.  
 The Russian currency was little changed at 29.0875 per
dollar by 1:15 p.m. in Moscow. It was little changed at 38.8300
per euro, leaving it at 33.4748, near its strongest level in 16
months, against the central bank’s target currency basket, which
is used to manage swings that hurt Russian exporters.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Igor Shuvalov, Russia's first deputy prime minister, speaks during the congress of Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs in Moscow, on April 15, 2010. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
