-- Putin Proposes Russia, Ukraine Nuclear Energy Merger for Generation, Fuel
-- Anna Shiryaevskaya
-- 2010-04-27T06:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/russia-proposes-establishing-nuclear-energy-holding-company-with-ukraine.html

          
          
             Russian Prime Minister Vladimir
Putin proposed creating a nuclear power holding company with
Ukraine as the two former Soviet republics rebuild ties.  
 “We have made massive proposals, referring to generation,
nuclear power engineering, and nuclear fuel,” Putin told
reporters after a meeting with Ukrainian President Viktor
Yanukovych in Kiev today. Any cooperation may be phased, Putin
said after the surprise visit to Kiev.  
 Russia and Ukraine have reached agreements on natural gas
subsidies and a navy base since Yanukovych’s election in
February improved ties between the neighboring states. Putin
also met yesterday with his Ukrainian counterpart, Mykola
Azarov, to discuss industrial cooperation.  
 Putin and Azarov plan to meet in Sochi on the Russia’s
Black Sea coast on April 30, where an intergovernmental
commission will meet, Putin said. Russia and Ukraine are also
discussing aviation and shipbuilding, he said.  
 Yanukovych said the proposals are “interesting.”  
 Ukraine currently operates four nuclear power plants with
15 reactors, according to the World Nuclear Association
database. It was the site of the world’s worst nuclear accident
when a reactor at the Chernobyl facility exploded on April 26,
1986, spewing radiation across eastern and northern Europe.  
 Nuclear Upgrades  
 Russia is ready to take “an active part” in upgrading
Ukrainian reactors and will allow Ukrainian partners on the
Russian market, Putin said. Nuclear cooperation in third
countries is also possible, he said.  
 Russia plans to boost the share of nuclear power in total
output to 25 percent from 15 percent to 16 percent now, Putin
told reporters near Milan yesterday.  
 Ukraine will get $40 billion to $45 billion of investment
from Russia in the next ten years because of a gas agreement
reached last week, with fuel supplies subsidized by Russia’s
budget, Putin said. This year, Russia will run a deficit that is
wider than Ukraine’s, if the neighboring country takes into
account the reduced gas price, he said.  
 Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and Yanukovych reached
the gas agreement in Kharkiv, eastern Ukraine, on April 21.
Russia agreed to cut the price of gas for Ukraine by as much as
30 percent, and in exchange Ukraine agreed to allow Russia to
keep its Black Sea fleet at the Ukrainian port of Sevastopol
until 2042, with a possible five-year extension. The fleet’s
lease was set to expire in 2017.  
 “The price they proposed to regulate the issue is
excessive,” Putin said. “I could eat Yanukovych and the prime
minister together for that money. Not a single military base in
the world costs as much.”  
 The Ukrainian parliament ratified the accord today.  
 Debates planned on the fleet in Ukraine are “surprising,”
as Russia discussed the extension with the previous government
led by Yulia Tymoshenko and received no objections, Putin said.  
 “But it is not just about money to us,” Putin said.
“Cooperation with Ukraine and cooperation in the military
sphere improves the level of trust between our countries.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Kiev at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ukraine's Prime Minister Mykola Azarov, right, welcomes his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin prior their talks in Kiev late April 26, 2010. Photographer: Sergei Supinsky/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ukraine's Prime Minister Mykola Azarov, right, welcomes his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin prior their talks in Kiev late April 26, 2010. Photographer: Sergei Supinsky/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
