-- Russia May Hire Banks for Asset Sales in July, Deputy Prime Minister Says
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-04-27T06:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/russia-may-hire-banks-for-asset-sales-in-july-deputy-prime-minister-says.html

          
          
             Russia may hire investment banks in
July to advise on the government’s planned asset sales, First
Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov said.  
 “We have prepared the amendments to the privatization law
and I think by the end of the spring session these amendments
will be adopted,” Shuvalov told reporters in Washington late
yesterday. “They allow us to hire investment banks to sell the
assets.” The spring session of the State Duma, Russia’s lower
house of parliament, ends on July 18.  
 President Dmitry Medvedev wants to use the sales to boost
efficiency across a number of industries and increase state
revenue. The Economy Ministry, which expects to raise more than
100 billion rubles ($3.4 billion) selling assets this year, is
in talks with “all major banks” including JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, UBS AG and Troika Dialog,
according to Alexei Uvarov, head of the ministry’s property
department.  
 A major bank with relevant experience that offers the
lowest fees “will get the contract,” Shuvalov said.  
 Russia plans to sell municipal and regional government
assets along with state property. The assets up for sale are
“very attractive,” including airports, seaports and energy
companies, Shuvalov said. The government will continue divesting
assets next year if it fails to sell them this year “because of
the shortage of capital.”  
 “You have 11 towns in Russia in which the population is
more than a million people and we have over 20 cities in which
the population is more than half a million,” Shuvalov said.
“It’s a very good time and place to invest.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        