-- Russian Government Mulls Tax on Speculative Capital Inflows, Shuvalov Says
-- Paul Abelsky
-- 2010-04-27T06:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/russian-government-mulls-tax-on-speculative-capital-inflows-shuvalov-says.html

          
          
             Russia’s government may levy a tax
on capital transactions in a bid to stem speculative flows,
First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov said.  
 “Maybe we will do something, which is not capital controls,
but would be based on taxation,” Shuvalov told reporters in
Washington late yesterday. Experts from the Finance Ministry and
the Economy Ministry are studying steps that may be taken to
limit short-term inflows, he said.  
 Russia’s central bank, which has lowered its benchmark rate
12 times in as many months to a record-low 8.25 percent, has
tried to use the cuts to stem the inflow of short-term foreign
capital in an effort to contain ruble volatility. Even so, Bank
Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said last year he’s
“categorically against” introducing capital controls.  
 Brazil in 2009 implemented a tax on foreign purchases of
stocks and fixed-income investment in a bid to stem the
currency’s advance, while Indonesia’s central bank warned it may
impose capital controls to curb speculative inflows. India “may
well employ” some form of capital controls on inflows should
such investments gain pace, central bank Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao said yesterday.  
 “Many people say that we need to impose new legislation
which will be against quick and speculative operations on the
market,” Shuvalov said. “They say that Brazil has very good
rules.”  
 A more flexible ruble has allowed Russia to adjust better
to volatile capital movements, he said.  
 Russian Flows  
 Equity funds focused on Russia posted inflows of $106
million in the week ending April 21, showing gains for the 10th
consecutive week, according to fund tracker EPFR Global.  
 Russian stocks were raised to 5 percent “overweight” from
5 percent “underweight” at Credit Suisse Group AG yesterday,
which cited “supportive” fund flows and a potential 10 percent
upside to the dollar-denominated RTS Index.  
 The gauge, the best performer worldwide last year, will
rally about 25 percent to 2,000 by the end of the year, VTB
Capital said in a report yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        