-- Russia, Ukraine Ratify Navy Base Deal in Swap for $40 Billion Gas Subsidy
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-04-27T08:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/russia-ukraine-ratify-navy-base-deal-in-swap-for-40-billion-gas-subsidy.html

          
          
             Russia’s lower house of parliament
approved a treaty that allows the Black Sea Fleet to remain at
the Ukrainian port of Sevastopol until 2042 in exchange for
about $40 billion of Russian gas subsidies.  
 The State Duma today unanimously backed the treaty, which
must also be approved by the upper house, the Federation
Council.  
 In Kiev, the treaty was ratified today with the backing of
236 lawmakers in the 450-seat Verkhovna Rada after the
opposition hurled eggs at the parliamentary leadership and smoke
bombs obscured the debate. Supporters and opponents of the deal
gathered outside the parliament building and the Cabinet office.  
 The naval base deal, reached last week, is tied to Russia’s
agreement to give Ukraine natural-gas subsidies worth about $40
billion over the next decade. Russia will pay $100 million in
cash plus for the base after 2017. The subsidy will also be
counted as payment.  
 “If you calculate over the 10 years this contract will be
in force, it’s $40-45 billion,” Russian Prime Minister Vladimir
Putin said late yesterday. “There’s not a naval base in the
world that costs that much,” he said, adding that Russia
“could build several bases for that amount.”  
 “But for us this isn’t just a matter of money, of
course,” Putin said. “It’s also an issue of cooperation with
Ukraine. Military cooperation will undoubtedly raise the level
of trust between the two states and give us the opportunity to
work” as a trusted partner “in the economy, on social programs
and in politics. That’s the main thing.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucian Kim in Moscow at   lkim3@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        