-- S&P Sees Brazil Corporate Debt Sales Active Through Presidential Election
-- Fabiola Moura
-- 2010-04-27T19:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/s-p-sees-brazilian-corporate-debt-sales-active-through-election.html

          
          
             Brazilian companies will keep
tapping overseas bond markets through the October presidential
elections after raising $13.4 billion this year as the nation’s
credit rating remains stable, Standard & Poor’s said.  
 “We expected this year to be very concentrated in the
beginning of the year and it looks like it won’t be,” Regina
Nunes, head of S&P in Brazil, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “A lot of Brazilians are
issuing now, a lot of Brazilians are planning issuances later.”  
 The outcome of the elections is unlikely to affect the
stable outlook on Brazil’s BBB- investment-grade rating while it
will help determine the pace at which the nation may be
upgraded, Jane Eddy, managing director for Latin America
sovereign and corporate ratings, said in the same interview. The
candidates have similar views toward macroeconomic policy, she
said.  
 Former Cabinet Chief Dilma Rousseff and former Sao Paulo
Governor Jose Serra are the main contenders in the race to
replace President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, whose second term
ends this year.  
 “I guess there might be differences about how quickly the
next stage of micro reform occurs under the various candidates,
which would mean how quickly could the rating move up, but with
regard to how stable the rating is at a BBB-, in a macro
context, which is what we are looking at to get out of
investment grade or to investment grade, neither of the
candidates are likely to upset it,” Eddy said.  
 Rating  
 Brazil received its first investment grade rating from S&P
in 2008. Fitch Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service followed,
and by September 2009 the country had the lowest investment
grade rating by the three agencies.  
 Brazilian companies’ international debt sales this year
compare with $3.2 billion raised in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Nunes also said she expects issuance on the nation’s equity
market to be active during the second half, “which is more
amazing.”  
 Brazil has had seven initial public offerings this year,
the best start for share sales since 2007, when 64 companies
raised 55.6 billion reais ($31.5 billion), according to the Web
site of the BM&F Bovespa SA stock exchange. Five of those
companies raised less than they originally sought.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net 
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        