-- Las Vegas Sands Says Sale of Macau Malls, Apartments May Raise $12 Billion
-- Liza Lin
-- 2010-04-27T13:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/sands-chairman-adelson-lifts-earnings-forecast-for-singapore-casino-resort.html

          
          
             Las Vegas Sands Corp. Chairman
Sheldon Adelson said the sale of the casino operator’s malls and
apartments in Macau may raise $12 billion, to recoup the cost of
constructing the buildings that house them.  
 “It will be like $12 billion if we add up all the
apartments and all the retail in Macau,” including those in
buildings still under construction, Adelson, also the founder
and chief executive officer of Las Vegas Sands, said in an
interview in Singapore today.  
 Sands, which Adelson describes as “an Asian company with a
presence in Las Vegas and the U.S.,” gets 72.5 percent of its
revenue from Macau, the only place in China where casinos are
legal. He was in Singapore today to open Marina Bay Sands, the
city-state’s second casino and raised his earnings forecast for
the resort, saying the $5.5 billion invested in it will be
recouped in five years.  
 The assets Sands may sell in Macau include its Four Seasons
and St. Regis apartments as well as the shopping areas in the
Venetian Macau casino resort and in the Four Seasons hotel,
Adelson said. While he didn’t provide a time frame for the
completion of the sales, he said the company may start selling
within 2 1/2 years.  
 “That is our fundamental business model -- we get our money
back from the sale of non-core business assets,” he said.  
 Sands fell 2.1 percent to $25.66 at 9:44 a.m. in New York
trading today. The stock has gained 72 percent in market value
this year after gaining 152 percent in 2009.  
 Outstanding Debt  
 Adelson, who is Sands’ controlling shareholder, had said in
December that selling the retail areas at the Four Seasons and
the Venetian would raise enough money to pay the company’s debt.
The company has $12.2 billion of bonds and loans due from next
year to 2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The billionaire, who previously said the Singapore project
would add more than $1 billion in annual earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, didn’t provide a
new figure apart from saying he was raising his forecast. The
return period compares with four years for the Macau project,
which cost about half as much to build, he said.  
 The Marina Bay Sands in Singapore will be a “grand slam
home run,” Adelson said. “Asian people just love to gamble.”  
 Singapore aims to lure 17 million visitors and triple
annual tourism revenue to S$30 billion ($22 billion) by 2015,
helped by two casino resorts, Marina Bay Sands and Genting
Bhd.’s Resorts World Sentosa. Sands’ casino resort today opened
963 of its 2,560 hotel rooms, the casino, the meeting and
convention facilities, parts of its shopping mall and some
restaurants.  
 A grand opening party will be held June 23 when the second
phase is unveiled, including a sky park, additional shops and
more restaurants.  
 Asia will contribute 85 percent of revenue once the
Singapore casino “ramps up,” said Adelson. Macau contributed
72.5 percent of last year’s sales of $4.56 billion, with the
balance coming from Las Vegas.  
 Sands China, the unit of Adelson’s casino operator that was
listed in Hong Kong last year, rose 1.1 percent to close at
HK$12.76 today. The stock has gained 35 percent this year,
outperforming the city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index, which slid
2.8 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Singapore at   llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        