-- Sarkozy Seeks Hu Juntao Support for Monetary Reform on Visit to China
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-04-27T13:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/sarkozy-seeks-hu-juntao-support-for-monetary-reform-on-visit-to-china.html

          
          
             French President Nicolas Sarkozy
will seek China’s backing for his plan to overhaul the global
monetary system during talks in Beijing with his Chinese
counterpart, Hu Jintao.  
 Sarkozy, who arrives on a three-day state visit tomorrow,
has called for “a new Bretton Woods” regulating financial ties
and criticized “volatility and undervaluation” in the monetary
system. France takes over the chairmanship of the Group of Eight
and the Group of 20 in November.  
 “There is some wishful thinking if he’s hoping to convince
the Chinese to embark on a global monetary-system reform,”
Michel Aglietta, an economy professor at Paris-X University,
said in an interview. “But the Chinese are sensitive to
Sarkozy’s call for more responsibility and a multipolar world.
They will be more open on talks about global governance,
financial and banking regulation.”  
 France and China both say this visit will mark a new step
in their “strategic partnership.” Sarkozy is unlikely to
repeat earlier demands that China revalue its currency, the
yuan, an Elysee Palace official said, adding that talks will
focus on preparing G20-level discussions.  
 Iran, a key energy partner for China, will be one of the
main topics of discussion, said the French official, who can’t
be identified under Elysee rules. He talked to reporters in
Paris on April 23.  
 Iran Sanctions  
 Talks between the leaders of two of the five permanent
members of the United Nations Security Council come as
negotiations have started in New York on new sanctions for
Iran’s refusal to halt uranium enrichment.  
 The French president will meet with Hu, National People’s
Congress Chairman Wu Bangguo and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao.
After a state dinner in Beijing and private visit to the Great
Wall, Sarkozy will join Hu in Shanghai for the inauguration of
Expo 2010, where he will also open the French Pavilion.  
 “The relation is back to normal, but it isn’t a warm
relation anymore,” said Francois Godement, a professor at the
Asia Center of the Paris Political Sciences Institute.  
 Herve Ladsous, France’s ambassador to China, said China
“should look further and give more suggestions” on global
issues, including the Middle East and the monetary system, China
Daily reported on March 31, citing remarks at a Sino-French
roundtable in Beijing.  
 Tibet Friction  
 The state visit comes after a 2008 diplomatic clash over
Tibet. Tibetan activists disturbed the torch relay in Paris for
the Beijing Olympic Games and Sarkozy met the Dalai Lama in
December 2008 when he held the rotating European Union
presidency. In retaliation, China canceled a summit with the EU.  
 “On the Tibet issue, France has not completely accepted
China’s position,” said Shen Dingli, a professor of
international relations at Fudan University in Shanghai.
“Political difficulties still exist and bilateral relations
have not yet fully recovered.”  
 Talks “between France and China are very direct, but we
don’t want a political exploitation” of the Tibetan issue,
former French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, who co-chairs
the China friendship group at the Senate, told Canal Plus
television on April 25. Discussions on Tibet will take place
“man to man, leader to leader,” he said.  
 While talks on Tibet and human rights aren’t excluded, the
Elysee Palace official said they are not on the agenda.  
 Yuan’s Weakness  
 During his 2007 visit, Sarkozy brought up the yuan’s
weakness against the euro, favoring Chinese exports.  
 Wen’s government has held the yuan at about 6.83 per dollar
since July 2008 to shield the country’s exporters from the
global recession after allowing a 21 percent advance the
previous three years.  
 China’s central bank governor, Zhou Xiaochuan, said the
country will maintain its “relatively easy” monetary policy as
the global economic recovery remains fragile.  
 China’s economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the biggest gain since the second quarter
of 2007. Chinese exports grew 24 percent in March.  
 Talks between the two leaders will focus on economic and
global policies and won’t include business deals, the French
official said. Several contracts for aircraft and nuclear-power
plants were sealed on the 2007 trip.  
 The French delegation will include the chief executives of
several companies, including Electricite de France SA’s Henri
Proglio, Suez Environnement’s Jean-Louis Chaussade, Thales SA’s
Luc Vigneron and PSA Peugeot Citroen’s Philippe Varin. About
3,800 French companies operate in China, Ladsous said, according
to China News.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Beijing at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        