-- SEB, HVB Appeal Ruling on $57 Million Fraud by Gambling Addicted Executive
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-04-27T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/seb-hvb-appeal-ruling-asia-pacific-breweries-wasn-t-responsible-for-fraud.html

          
          
             Bayerische Hypo-und Vereinsbank AG
and SEB AB appealed a Singapore court ruling that Asia Pacific
Breweries Ltd. wasn’t responsible for $57 million in loans taken
out by a former executive to fund his gambling addiction.  
 Singapore’s Court of Appeal will deliberate on the
“extremely complicated case” before making a decision, Chief
Justice Chan Sek Keong said at the hearing yesterday. The banks
had sought to dismiss an Aug. 31 ruling that they were “easy
prey” to loans fraudulently obtained by Chia Teck Leng, the
Singapore-based company’s former finance manager, in the
brewer’s name.  
 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, also known as SEB, and HVB
were reckless and took their “eyes off the ball,” by ignoring
their usual procedures in dealing with Chia, Davinder Singh,
Asia Pacific Breweries’ lawyer, told the court yesterday. Both
European banks say the company should be liable for their losses
as Chia was the most senior finance person in the brewer’s
Singapore unit and responsible for financial matters.  
 There was a “deafening silence” on the brewer’s own
lapses in allowing Chia to carry out his fraud from 1999 to 2003,
said Alvin Yeo, a lawyer for Munich-based bank HVB.  
 Asia Pacific Breweries wants “to go scot-free when they
unleashed this gambling monster on the banking community,” said
Sundaresh Menon, a lawyer for Stockholm-based SEB. Putting a
gambler in charge of finances was like “putting an alcoholic in
charge of a brewery,” he said.  
 Warning Signs Missed  
 Chia signed loan agreements in the front seat of his car,
made telegraphic transfers to an unnamed patron account at Crown
Ltd., Australia’s biggest casino owner, and had the banks send
correspondence to a post office box address, warning signs which
the banks missed, Singh said.  
 “Any reasonable banker exercising common sense and
prudence would have been incredulous,” he added.  
 Both SEB and HVB missed discrepancies in documents that
“were staring bank officers in the face” and ignored normal
procedures when dealing with Chia, Judge Belinda Ang said in
August. Chia, described as an “inveterate gambler who
unremittingly resorted to cheating and forgery” by Ang, was
sentenced to 42 years in jail in 2004 for cheating and forgery.  
 “The case definitely serves as a timely reminder to banks
to be more cautious when checking whether a corporate loan has
indeed been properly authorized and approved,” said Lan Luh Luh,
at the National University of Singapore’s Business school.  
 Beer Maker’s Shares Flat  
 Shirley Poo, a spokeswoman for the maker of Tiger Beer
declined to comment yesterday. Asia Pacific Breweries shares
closed unchanged at S$14.2 in Singapore. The stock has climbed
15 percent this year.  
 Ola Kallemur, a Stockholm-based spokesman for SEB, declined
to comment. A spokeswoman at UniCredit SpA, which acquired HVB,
couldn’t immediately comment.  
 Chia defrauded four banks including Japan’s Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. of
S$117 million ($85 million) by forging the signatures of Asia
Pacific Breweries directors to get loans in the company’s name
between 1999 and 2003. The Tokyo-based banks withdrew their case
against Asia Pacific Breweries on the seventh day of the trial.  
 “The use which Chia made of his employer’s name in order
to borrow with ease from the bank was just as much a fraud on
APB as it was on the banks,” Ang wrote in her 232-page ruling.  
 In addition to the loans, Chia also embezzled S$53 million
from the brewery, according to court filings.  
 Asia Pacific Breweries denied responsibility in the fraud
and counter-sued SEB, Sweden’s third-largest bank by market
value, for “dishonest assistance,” according to court filings.
The brewery is a unit of Fraser & Neave Ltd., Singapore’s
biggest beverage maker.  
 Drew & Napier LLC is representing Asia Pacific Breweries
while Wong Partnership LLP represents HVB and Rajah & Tann LLP
appears for SEB.  
 The case is Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Singapore
Branch v Asia Pacific Breweries (Singapore) Pte Ltd. & Another
CA121/2009 and Bayerische Hypo-Und Vereinsbank
Aktieengesellschaft v Asia Pacific Breweries (Singapore) Pte Ltd.
& Another CA122/2009 in the Singapore High Court.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        