-- Senate to Vote Again on Financial Overhaul
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-04-27T19:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/senate-will-vote-again-today-on-financial-overhaul.html

          
          
             The U.S. Senate will take a second
vote today on Democrats’ effort to overcome Republican
objections and begin debate on financial-overhaul legislation.  
 “What are you afraid of?” Majority Leader Harry Reid of
Nevada said to Republicans on the Senate floor today, arguing
that the proposal can be amended during debate.  
 Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, responded by saying, “This bill isn’t ready” and
that more negotiations are needed.  
 The Democrats yesterday failed to gain the 60 votes needed
to bring the measure to the floor.  
 The bill, sought by President Barack Obama, would
strengthen rules governing the financial services industry in
response to the worst economic crisis since the Great
Depression. Republicans say they want more time to work on a
bipartisan compromise before considering the plan on the Senate
floor.  
 No Republican broke ranks to join Democrats in yesterday’s
57-41 vote. Senator Ben Nelson, a Nebraska Democrat, joined
Republicans in voting not to begin debate, saying he was
concerned about the plan’s effect on auto dealers and dentists.  
 Reid filed a procedural motion yesterday that will allow
him to schedule a third vote tomorrow if today’s vote fails,
signaling his readiness to ratchet up pressure on Republicans.  
 Derivatives, Failing Companies  
 Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd, the
Connecticut Democrat who wrote the bill, is negotiating toward
a compromise with Alabama Senator Richard Shelby, the banking
panel’s top Republican. Issues include derivatives oversight
and how to set up a mechanism for unwinding failing financial
companies whose collapse would threaten the economy.  
 Dodd said he and Shelby met today and plan to meet again.  
 “The sooner we get to this debate, the quicker we can
resolve matters,” Dodd told reporters.  
 Dodd said he plans to support an amendment by Senator
Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat, which would ban the
government from using any taxpayer money to bail out failing
firms.  
 The amendment would address Republicans’ main objection to
the bill, which they say would set up a permanent bailout of
Wall Street banks and create bureaucracies. Democrats say the
legislation would save the government from having to step in
with taxpayer money to prop up ailing financial firms.  
 Shelby said he and Dodd “have made considerable progress
in the last several days,” with Dodd agreeing to Shelby’s
recommendations “to strengthen that section.”  
 ‘Anxiety and Concern’  
 The derivatives language “has not been totally resolved
and there’s a lot of anxiety and concern about that,” Shelby
said.  
 “The biggest obstacle is probably the consumer agency and
the reach and scope of it right now,” Shelby said.  
 Dodd’s legislation would create a consumer financial
protection bureau at the Federal Reserve with authority to
write rules and enforce them at banks and credit unions with
more than $10 billion in assets. Shelby wants bank regulators
to have a say in the agency’s rule-writing and enforcement
decisions.  
 “They don’t want a consumer protection agency at all,”
Dodd told reporters today.  
 Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine, George
Voinovich of Ohio and Scott Brown of Massachusetts told
reporters they planned again to vote against proceeding to
debate.  
 ‘Complex’ Issues  
 “The public understands that we are in favor of a strong
financial reform bill,” Collins said. “It does not make sense
to prematurely bring a bill to the floor when there are
negotiations on very complex, technical issues ongoing that are
proceeding well.”  
 The bill is designed to prevent a repeat of the $700
billion in taxpayer-funded aid Congress approved in 2008 to
firms including Citigroup Inc. and American International Group
Inc.  
 Today’s vote coincides with a day of testimony by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. executives, including Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd Blankfein, before a Senate subcommittee.  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission sued the New York-
based bank on April 16 alleging it defrauded investors when
selling a debt instrument tied to mortgages. Goldman Sachs
denied wrongdoing.  
 Profit Ahead of Clients  
 Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who leads the
Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, has released
e-mails and other documents that he said show “Goldman
repeatedly put its own interest and profit ahead of the
interests of its clients.”  
 The company’s behavior “brings into question the whole
conduct of Wall Street,” Levin said today at the hearing.  
 “The confluence of the Goldman charges and the bill,
which seeks to regulate abuses, puts added pressure on
Republicans,” said Stuart Rothenberg, publisher of the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report.  
 The bill would limit the Fed’s regulatory authority to
banks with assets of at least $50 billion, transferring its
powers to monitor smaller lenders to other regulators. It would
also set up a council of regulators to monitor the economy for
systemic risk and ban proprietary trading at U.S. banks.  
 Senate Democrats yesterday released compromise language on
a key part of the bill covering derivatives, including a
provision that would force commercial banks to wall off their
swaps-trading desks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat from Nevada, speaks in Washington in this file photo. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Peter Cook reports on yesterday's U.S. Senate vote blocking Democrats from advancing their plan to overhaul the regulation of financial services.
     No Republicans broke ranks to join Democrats in the 57-41 vote, with 60 needed to begin consideration of the bill. The defeat comes as Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs’s chairman and chief executive officer, prepared to testify today before a Senate panel investigating Wall Street’s role in the financial crisis.  Bloomberg's Linzie Janis also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
