-- Investor Suit Against Merck on Vioxx May Proceed, U.S. Supreme Court Says
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-04-27T18:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/shareholder-lawsuit-deadlines-relaxed-by-supreme-court-in-merck-vioxx-case.html

          
          
             The U.S. Supreme Court relaxed the
deadlines for shareholder fraud lawsuits, saying investors can
proceed with accusations that Merck & Co. misled the public
about the risks posed by its now-withdrawn Vioxx painkiller.  
 The nation’s highest court unanimously ruled that the two-
year window for shareholder suits under federal law hadn’t
closed by the time the first shareholders sued Merck in November
2003. The court, interpreting the federal securities laws, said
the two-year period doesn’t begin until investors have
indications of intentional company wrongdoing.  
 The ruling will mean more flexibility for shareholder
lawyers, giving them longer to decide whether to file fraud
lawsuits. The decision will extend the length of time companies
are vulnerable to suits over alleged misconduct.  
 “The case will enable not only a greater number of
shareholder lawsuits in the pharmaceutical industry, but could
also help spur securities litigation more generally, especially
in financial services,” said Chris Brummer, a securities law
professor at Georgetown University Law Center in Washington.  
 Vioxx-related legal problems have already cost Merck
billions of dollars. The company set up a $4.85 billion
settlement fund in 2007 to resolve thousands of injury claims
over the drug, and Merck said last month 13 states have sued the
company seeking refunds of money they paid for Vioxx.  
 Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, said in a
statement that it will seek to have the investor suit dismissed
on other grounds.  
 Merck Disappointed  
 “Merck is disappointed in today’s decision, but believes
that the allegations in the complaint are unfounded and will
continue to defend itself vigorously,” Bruce Kuhlik, the
company’s general counsel, said in a statement.  
 Merck pulled Vioxx from the market in September 2004
because of links to heart attacks and strokes. On the day the
drug was pulled, Merck fell 27 percent, wiping out $26.8 billion
in market value. Merck agreed in 2007 to pay $4.85 billion to
settle more than 26,000 patient lawsuits.  
 The first public hints of a problem with Vioxx came in 2000
when a study released by Merck showed its treatment caused five
times more heart attacks than a rival painkiller, naproxen.
Merck at the time said the results stemmed from naproxen’s
protection of the cardiovascular system.  
 The first Vioxx product-liability suit was filed in May
2001, and in September of that year the Food and Drug
Administration said in a warning letter that the company was
underplaying potential heart risks associated with Vioxx.  
 Unusual Position  
 The case put Merck in the unusual position of arguing that
the events of 2000 and 2001 suggested wrongdoing by the company
and should have prompted investors to investigate. Merck
contended that the two-year window for lawsuits was closed by
September 2003, two years after the FDA letter.  
 In his opinion for the court, Justice Stephen Breyer said
the FDA letter “shows little or nothing” about whether Merck
“advanced the naproxen hypothesis with fraudulent intent.”  
 “The court comprehensively rejected Merck’s argument that
the statute of limitations had run on the claims of fraud before
the investors had obtained knowledge of the company’s fraudulent
intent,” said David Frederick, the lawyer who argued the case
for the shareholders. Frederick is a partner at Kellogg Huber
Hansen Todd Evans & Figel PLLC in Washington.  
 Frederick argued that investors didn’t have enough
information to establish a violation of the securities laws
until a 2004 Wall Street Journal article disclosed internal
company e-mails. The Obama administration backed the investors
in the case.  
 Appeals Court  
 A federal appeals court had allowed the suit to go forward,
overturning a trial judge’s decision throwing it out.  
 Breyer said that, because shareholders must prove
intentional deception, they shouldn’t have to sue before they
have a reasonable chance to get evidence of that element of the
case.  
 Imposing a stricter requirement would mean that defendants
could avoid suit by concealing evidence of misstatements for two
years, he said. Breyer pointed to a provision in federal law
that says investors have two years “after the discovery of
facts constituting the violation.”  
 “Intent to deceive is assuredly a fact,” Breyer wrote.  
 Breyer rejected Merck’s contention that plaintiffs’ lawyers
have a duty to begin investigating once they get hints of fraud.
At the same time, he said the two-year period begins once a
“reasonably diligent” shareholder would have evidence of
intentional misconduct.  
 Scalia and Thomas  
 Two justices -- Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas -- said
they would have gone further in relaxing the deadlines. Scalia
said the provision the court was interpreting doesn’t require
shareholders to be “reasonably diligent.”  
 The ruling will have limited practical impact, affecting
primarily companies that have been the subject of government
investigations, said Adam Pritchard, who teaches securities law
at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.  
 “Most cases are going to be brought very soon after the
big stock price drop that gives rise to the lawsuit,” Pritchard
said. “The impact of this decision is going to be on frauds
that come to light a substantial time after the company has gone
into a decline.”  
 Breyer’s standard is similar to what most, though not all,
lower courts have applied, said Barbara Black, a securities-law
professor at the University of Cincinnati School of Law.  
 “It’s probably what the courts have been doing, but there
clearly were some outliers, like the district court in this
case,” she said.  
 The case is Merck v. Reynolds, 08-905.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        