-- Simon Talking to Blackstone About General Growth Bid
-- Prashant Gopal
-- 2010-04-27T21:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/simon-is-in-talks-with-blackstone-about-joining-general-growth-investment.html

          
          
             Simon Property Group Inc., the mall
owner bidding to bring General Growth Properties Inc. out of
bankruptcy, is in talks to add Blackstone Group LP as a partner
in its investment, Chief Executive Officer David Simon said.  
 The companies are in “ongoing discussions” for an
investment in General Growth after the mall operator turned down
a $10 billion takeover bid from Simon in February, the CEO said
in an interview today. Simon Property has already lined up
Paulson & Co., ING Clarion Real Estate Securities, Taconic
Capital Advisors, Oak Hill Advisors LP and Deutsche Bank AG’s
RREEF as backers in its recapitalization proposal.  
 Blackstone’s “No. 1 focus has been on being our partner if
we’re able to buy the company,” Simon said from the Milken
Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California. “But
I think they are considering whether they want to buy some stock
as part of a recap as well.”  
 General Growth, the biggest U.S. mall owner after Simon,
has endorsed a rival bankruptcy exit plan led by Brookfield
Asset Management Inc. of Toronto. David Simon, who is seeking to
gain so-called stalking horse status in an auction for General
Growth, is trying to “stack the odds in his favor” with the
Blackstone talks, said Omotayo Okusanya, managing director at
Jefferies Group Inc. in New York.  
 “The more prestigious investors on his side willing to put
money on a potential investment recapitalization, the better for
him when a bankruptcy judge is looking at his proposal,”
Okusanya said in a telephone interview.  
 Warrant Issuance  
 David Simon says his offer is better for General Growth
shareholders because, unlike Brookfield’s plan, it doesn’t
include issuing warrants that may dilute stock value. Simon,
based in Indianapolis, estimates the warrants could cost General
Growth shareholders $895 million, while General Growth puts the
warrants’ value at about $519 million.  
 Simon Property said in a bankruptcy court filing last week
that it should replace Brookfield as the stalking horse, a
change that would make it the first bidder to put an initial
value on Chicago-based General Growth. A hearing on the issue is
scheduled for May 4.  
 Simon won’t bid for General Growth if Brookfield wins the
designation and receives warrants, David Simon said today.  
 ‘Too Expensive’  
 “To the extent that the Brookfield plan gets done, and the
warrants get implemented, we will not participate in the auction
that the company is going to ultimately run in bankruptcy,”
Simon said. The warrants would make General Growth “too
expensive,” he said.  
 Simon last week announced the addition of ING Clarion,
Taconic Capital, Oak Hill and RREEF to its bid, increasing the
plan’s total investment by $1.1 billion. Simon has pledged $2.5
billion, while New York-based Paulson committed $1 billion.  
 David Simon declined to say today how much Blackstone would
add to the plan were it to join as an investor.  
 “They’re considering what they want to do,” he said.  
 Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, declined to comment.  
 Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm, has
been seeking mall investments, said Cedrik Lachance, senior
analyst with Green Street Advisors in Newport Beach, California.
The company bought stakes in two retail centers last year as
part of a joint venture with Glimcher Realty Trust.  
 General Growth filed the largest real estate bankruptcy in
U.S. history a year ago after amassing $27 billion in debt
making acquisitions. Its properties include New York’s South
Street Seaport, Boston’s Faneuil Hall and the Grand Canal
Shoppes and Fashion Show in Las Vegas.  
 Antitrust Concerns  
 “We continue to believe our offer is the most compelling
for all stakeholders, including existing shareholders,” Cyrus
Madon, Brookfield’s senior managing partner for restructuring
and lending, said today in an e-mail. A Simon investment would
ensure that General Growth “will not be able to function
effectively and eventually be sold to Simon and no one else.”  
 Simon’s offer raises antitrust concerns, according to the
plan’s opponents, who include Bruce Berkowitz, founder of Miami-
based Fairholme Capital Management LLC, General Growth’s biggest
debt holder and a partner in the competing Brookfield proposal.
Berkowitz said in an April 16 interview that the Simon plan “is
not healthy for competition.”  
 David Simon today dismissed those concerns, saying his
company has a “fiduciary duty” to its investment partners as
well as its shareholders to see that General Growth prospers.  
 ‘Passive Shareholder’  
 “The fact is that we’re going to be a passive shareholder,
and we’re going to have a reduced voting stake -- less than our
economics,” Simon said. “Our directors aren’t going to be
involved in anything that has any inkling to do anything with
Simon. What they do operationally we’re not going to be involved
in -- period, end of story.”  
 Simon Property said last week that its selections for
General Growth’s board are Dale Anne Reiss, a former senior
partner at Ernst & Young LLP, and Peter D. Linneman, a professor
of real estate finance and public policy at the Wharton School
at the University of Pennsylvania, both of whom are unaffiliated
with Simon. David Simon said the two directors would recuse
themselves on any General Growth board decisions where there
would be a conflict with Simon Property’s operations.  
 David Simon said that while he is focused on a passive
investment in General Growth, his offer would allow a potential
buyer for the company, whether it be Simon or another bidder, to
step up -- something unlikely under the Brookfield plan with the
warrants it includes.  
 “It will dampen the competitive auction that they want to
run with the court,” Simon said. “It’ll have that impact on
us, and it will frankly have that impact on anybody else who’s
out there. Those warrants will debilitate the auction process
that the company wants to undertake, ultimately, as part of the
bankruptcy procedures.”  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Taub in Los Angeles at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        