-- Singapore to License Bigger Hedge-Funds Under New Rules
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2010-04-27T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/singapore-to-license-bigger-hedge-funds-as-scrutiny-increases-after-crisis.html

          
          
             Hedge-fund firms in Singapore that
manage more than S$250 million ($183 million) will need to be
licensed under regulator proposals to increase oversight of the
investment-management industry.  
 Hedge-fund managers are currently exempt from holding a
capital-markets services license provided they manage funds on
behalf of 30 or fewer of what the Monetary Authority of
Singapore describes as “qualified” investors. Under the
proposals, managers with less than S$250 million won’t need a
license, though they will have to maintain a base capital of at
least S$250,000.  
 The review is the most sweeping of the fund-management
industry since the city-state introduced incentives to lure
alternative asset managers in 2002, and comes as hedge funds and
private-equity firms are under scrutiny from regulators and
lawmakers worldwide, who say they are partly to blame for the
worst financial crisis in a generation. Singapore’s hedge-fund
industry has grown into Asia’s second biggest behind Hong Kong.  
 “They’ve done a neat job of keeping the exempt regime
which is probably the most sophisticated hedge-fund regulatory
regime in any jurisdiction, but also being seen to have a regime
for more substantial managers, which is much more homogenous
with regulatory regimes elsewhere,” said Peter Douglas, the
principal of GFIA, a Singapore-based hedge-fund consultancy firm
that also runs a wealth management business.  
 As fund-management firms expand their businesses and their
assets under management grow, “they will require closer
supervision in view of their greater market impact,” the MAS
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 Public Consultation  
 The regulator is seeking comments from the public till May
31 on the proposed changes “to raise the quality and standard
of players” and sustain the industry’s growth, it said.  
 Fund-management firms that oversee S$250 million or less
and serve not more than 30 qualified investors, of which 15 or
fewer are funds, will need to maintain a base capital of at
least S$250,000, the MAS said. These managers will be called
“notified fund management companies,” according to the
proposed changes.  
 “While the authority recognizes the usefulness of the
exempt fund-manager regime in facilitating the growth of the
fund-management industry in Singapore, a review of the regime is
timely given recent developments in the global regulatory
landscape,” the MAS said.  
 While the regulator said it understands the industry’s
concern over increases in start-up costs, especially for smaller
managers, maintaining a minimum base capital “improves the
viability of new fund-management companies by acting as a buffer
for unexpected costs, especially during adverse market
conditions.”  
 Capital Requirements  
 The MAS also plans to introduce a new set of rules for
licensed fund-management firms that serve “accredited” and
institutional investors, it said. Hedge-fund managers with more
than S$250 million in assets can apply for a license under this
category.  
 Fund-management firms that serve retail investors will need
to be licensed, the MAS said.  
 All fund managers will need to meet capital requirements
and “business conduct,” including maintaining clients’ assets
with independent custodians as well as segregating the duties
between fund management and administration, the regulator said.  
 The MAS “remains committed to building Singapore as a
fund-management and alternative investment hub,” it said.  
 The regulator, also Singapore’s central bank, in 2002 eased
rules that limited investments in hedge funds to make it easier
for them to set up in Singapore than in other Asian cities such
as Hong Kong and Tokyo, helping fuel the industry’s growth in
recent years.  
 Expansion  
 Singapore now has 138 single-strategy hedge-fund managers
employing more than 800 professionals from near zero in 1997,
according to a survey by the local chapter of the Alternative
Investment Management Association. The industry oversees at
least $34.9 billion, excluding assets managed by several of the
large global firms, the survey said, making it Asia’s second
biggest.  
 The island-state’s “lighter regulatory touch” has enabled
hedge-fund managers to set up business “relatively quickly,”
without risking any delay in getting the necessary licenses from
the regulator, according to an overview of the industry
published by AIMA.  
 The authority recognizes that the ease of setting up a
fund-management business in Singapore and compliance costs are
important to industry participants and has taken these factors
into consideration, the MAS said in yesterday’s statement.  
 World leaders, including the Group of 20 countries that
make up most of the world’s economy, have called for stricter
oversight of the pools of private capital in the wake of the
global financial crisis.  
 The size of Singapore’s asset management industry shrank
about 26 percent to S$864 billion ($630 billion) in 2008 from a
year earlier because of the global financial crisis, the
authority said in its latest survey released in September.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        