-- Singapore May Sell Additional Land, Increase Curbs on Property Speculation
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-04-27T07:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/singapore-may-sell-more-land-apply-measures-to-curb-property-speculation.html

          
          
             Singapore will increase the supply
of land for housing and implement more measures if necessary
after taking steps to curb property speculation in the past
seven months.  
 The measures introduced in February this year and September
2009 have already helped moderate the increase in private and
public housing prices, Minister for National Development Mah Bow
Tan said in response to a question in parliament today. The
Government Land Sales program, which offered 26 sites in the
first half, will include a larger supply in the second half as
long as demand remains strong, he said.  
 “The government will continue to monitor the property
market closely,” Mah said. “We will implement additional
measures if necessary to maintain a healthy and stable property
market.”  
 Singapore’s home prices rose 5.6 percent in the three
months ended March 31, the Urban Redevelopment Authority said
April 23. The increase slowed from a 7.4 percent gain in the
previous quarter after the government in February levied a
seller’s stamp duty on residential properties and land sold
within one year after purchase.  
 The country has also lowered the loan-to-value limit to 80
percent from 90 percent for all housing loans provided by
financial institutions.  
 Home Sales Rise  
 The island in September barred interest-only mortgages for
uncompleted homes and stopped allowing developers to absorb
interest payments for apartments under construction to deter
speculative purchases.  
 Even after the measures were introduced, private
residential transactions continued to grow, rising to 4,380
homes in the first quarter from 1,860 in the previous three
months and 2,596 in the same period last year, according to the
URA’s statistics.  
 The measures introduced so far “were calibrated to
encourage greater financial prudence among purchasers, temper
exuberance in the market and pre-empt a property bubble from
forming,” Mah said. “They were not intended to stop prices
from rising or deter genuine home-buyers and investors from
buying properties.”  
 Singapore’s Housing & Development Board is also prepared to
offer even more public housing, having already pledged to supply
12,000 flats this year, Mah said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        