-- South Korea Current-Account Surplus Advanced to Four-Month High in March
-- William Sim
-- 2010-04-28T00:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/south-korea-current-account-surplus-advanced-to-four-month-high-in-march.html

          
          
             South Korea’s current-account
surplus advanced to a four-month high in March as the global
economic recovery spurred overseas demand for cars,
semiconductors and petrochemicals.  
 The surplus was $1.69 billion, the largest since November,
from a revised $167.6 million in February, the Bank of Korea
said in Seoul today. The current account is the broadest measure
of international trade, tracking goods, services and investment
income.  
 Asia’s fourth-largest economy expanded more than economists
estimated in the first quarter as exports climbed and consumer
spending improved. Hyundai Motor Co. and Samsung Electronics Co.
have led a surge in shipments abroad that has helped drive up
stocks and the won.  
 “Export momentum is stronger than expected, bringing about
a sizable current-account surplus,” said Suh Dae Il, an
economist at Daewoo Securities Co. in Seoul. “On top of the
trade surplus, foreign investors are heavily buying Korean
assets, adding upward pressure on the won.”  
 South Korea’s currency retreated 1 percent to 1,120.95
against the dollar at 9 a.m. after the Finance Ministry said
yesterday investors are betting “excessively” on the won’s
gains. It advanced to a 19-month high on April 26. The benchmark
Kospi stock index declined 1.8 percent to 1,717.63 at 9:19 a.m.  
 Strong Recovery  
 The economy expanded 1.8 percent in the first quarter from
the previous three months, when it grew 0.2 percent, the central
bank said yesterday. The Bank of Korea, which has left borrowing
costs unchanged for 14 straight months, forecasts the economic
expansion this year will be the strongest since 2006.  
 The central bank forecasts the current account surplus to
shrink to $10.5 billion this year from $42.7 billion in 2009 as
recovering domestic demand draws in more imports. The surplus
will be around $1 billion this month, Lee Young Bog, a Bank of
Korea official, told reporters today.  
 Foreign investors bought a net $4.18 billion of South
Korean shares in March, the second largest amount in record,
driven by robust earnings at companies and expectations of a
firmer won, Lee said.  
 The surplus on traded goods widened to $4.36 billion last
month from a revised $1.56 billion in February, today’s report
showed. The services deficit, which measures the flow of travel,
transport costs and royalties, was $2.1 billion in March,
compared with a revised $1.78 billion in February.  
 Total exports on a customs-cleared basis, which excludes
ships, surged 34.3 percent in March from a year earlier,
compared with a 30.3 percent increase in February. Imports rose
49 percent, accelerating from a 37.2 percent rise in February.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        