-- South Korea's Economic Growth Accelerates, Government Warns on Won Gains
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-04-27T09:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/south-korea-s-economic-growth-accelerates-government-warns-on-won-gains.html

          
          
             South Korea’s economy accelerated
more than estimated last quarter as the global recovery spurred
demand for electronics and consumer spending advanced, prompting
the government to warn about speculative gains in the currency.  
 Gross domestic product increased 1.8 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, when it rose 0.2
percent, the central bank said in Seoul today. That was more
than 1.5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
12 economists. From a year earlier, GDP gained 7.8 percent.  
 As the upbeat growth pushed the won close to a 19-month
high against the U.S. dollar, the government said investors have
bet “excessively” on the won’s rise. A strong currency could
hurt exports at Hyundai Motor Co. and Samsung Electronics Co.
that helped boost the South Korean economy last quarter.  
 “The government is trying to curb the won’s fast rise to
protect exporters,” said Lee Sang Jae, chief economist at
Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul. “The solid exports growth and
global investors’ strong interest in Korean stocks and bonds
will likely drive up the won further and the government will try
to slow down the pace.”  
 The government’s comments on the won dragged the currency
down by as much as 1 percent, according to Bloomberg data. The
won, which has gained 21 percent in the past year, weakened 0.6
percent to 1,110.15 as of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul. The Kospi
stock index fell 0.2 percent after climbing 30 percent in the
past 12 months. The three-year treasury bond yield fell 9 basis
points to 3.66 percent, the lowest since April 2009.  
 ‘Herd Behavior’  
 “The foreign-exchange authorities believe market players
bet excessively on the won’s rise,” Kim Ik Joo, director-
general at the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, told reporters
by phone today from Gwacheon. “The government will take
appropriate measures to stabilize the market if herd behavior
moves the exchange rate sharply.”  
 Hyundai Motor increased sales in the U.S. and China this
year while Samsung Electronics posted a seven-fold increase in
profit. The central bank, which has kept interest rates
unchanged for 14 straight months, forecasts the economy will
expand this year at the fastest pace since 2006.  
 “Opposition to an early exit from policy stimulus will
likely keep the Bank of Korea on hold for the next few months,”
said Brian Jackson, an emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank
of Canada in Hong Kong. “Concern about the potential impact of
keeping rates too low for too long will prompt policy makers to
deliver rate hikes in the second half of the year.”  
 Improving Outlook  
 Credit Suisse AG and Barclays Plc raised their forecasts
for South Korea’s GDP growth after the release of the report,
citing an improving outlook for the global economy. Credit
Suisse expects Asia’s fourth-largest economy to expand 6.2
percent this year and Barclays is predicting 5.7 percent.  
 “The economy has regained its fast recovery pace and the
second quarter will also be good,” said June Park, an economist
at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “Upbeat growth
may add pressure for an early rate increase, but the central
bank will likely stay pat until the second half as domestic
demand is not robust enough.”  
 The central bank has held the benchmark interest rate at a
record-low 2 percent after slashing it by 3.25 percentage points
between October 2008 and February 2009 to cushion the economy
from the global economic slump. Moody’s Investors Service raised
the nation’s credit ratings one step to A1 on April 14.  
 ‘Too Early’  
 Even after the revised economic outlook and ratings
upgrade, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo has been
reluctant to push for a tightening of monetary policy in the
face of a government that has publicly opposed increasing
borrowing costs.  
 The government says it’s “too early” to implement an exit
strategy to policy steps taken during the global financial
crisis. It sent a vice finance minister to attend the Bank of
Korea’s monthly meeting since January, breaking a practice of
more than 10 years of excluding political representatives.  
 The Bank of Korea released the minutes of its March 11
rate-setting meeting today, saying that all of the six board
members voted unanimously to keep the benchmark interest rate
unchanged last month to support the economy and amid signs
inflation was stable.  
 President Lee Myung Bak’s administration boosted this
year’s budget by 3 percent to 292.8 trillion won ($256 billion)
and has said it will accelerate distribution of funds as it
seeks to maintain the recovery.  
 Fast Recovering  
 “The economy is recovering fast but not to an overheating
level, given the strong push from government spending,” said Oh
Suk Tae, an economist at SC First Bank Korea in Seoul. “I don’t
think the data will bring forward the rate hike, which I expect
to come in the third quarter.”  
 Goods exports rose 3.4 percent in the first quarter
compared with the previous three months, when they declined 1.5
percent, today’s report showed. Private consumption increased
0.6 percent from the fourth quarter and government spending
jumped 5.7 percent.  
 The government forecasts overseas shipments will rise 13
percent this year to $410 billion. Growth in China, South
Korea’s biggest export market, accelerated to the fastest pace
in almost three years in the first quarter, with GDP expanding
11.9 percent from a year earlier.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        