-- Soybeans Fall Most This Month on Concern China May Slow Oilseed Imports
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-04-27T19:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/soybeans-fall-most-this-month-on-concern-china-may-slow-oilseed-imports.html

          
          
                  April 27 (Bloomberg) --Soybeans fell the most this month on
speculation that China’s efforts to curb inflation will slow
economic growth, reducing demand for food, fuel and animal feed
made from imported oilseeds.  
 A benchmark stock index in China fell to a six-month low on
concern that government measures to cool the property market
will damp consumer spending. China is the biggest consumer of
soybeans. The U.S., Brazil and Argentina, the largest exporters,
will harvest record crops, boosting global reserves to the
highest ever on Oct. 1, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said.  
 “The drop in Chinese stocks to a six-month low today is
something the markets are starting to pay attention to,” said
Jim Gerlach, the president of A/C Trading Inc. in Fowler,
Indiana. “China was a precursor to the global collapse in 2008
and bottomed before the recovery in 2009.”  
 Soybean futures for July delivery fell 16 cents, or 1.6
percent, to $9.93 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
biggest decline for a most-active contract since March 31.
Yesterday, soybeans reached $10.20, the highest price since Jan.
11.  
 Prices also were driven lower by a government report that
showed soybean planting in some southern states was ahead of the
five-year average pace, increasing the yield potential, Gerlach
said.  
 The early planting means crops will be harvested in August.
Inventories will reach 190 million bushels on Aug. 31, up from
138 million last year, the second-lowest since 1977, the USDA
said earlier this month.  
 The government is scheduled to release its next report on
planting progress on May 3.  
 More Acreage  
 Soybeans were planted on 24 percent of intended acreage in
Arkansas, the 10th-largest producer, above the five-year average
of 15 percent, the government said yesterday in a report.
Planting was 60 percent completed in Mississippi, the 13th-
largest grower, up from 48 percent on average the prior five
years.  
 “Rapid planting of both crops means we will have more
soybeans and an earlier harvest,” Gerlach said.  
 Soybeans are the second-biggest U.S. crop, behind corn,
with a 2009 value of $31.8 billion, government figures show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        