-- Swedbank Says Earnings Likely to Improve as Loan Impairment Charges Drop
-- Niklas Magnusson
-- 2010-04-27T08:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/swedbank-says-earnings-likely-to-improve-as-loan-impairment-charges-drop.html

          
          
             Swedbank AB, the largest lender in
the Baltic countries, reported its first quarterly profit in
more than a year and said earnings are likely to improve as loan
impairments decline in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.  
 Net income was 536 million kronor ($75 million) after a
year-earlier loss of 3.36 billion kronor, Stockholm-based
Swedbank said today. The average estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a net loss of 520 million kronor.
Loan losses fell by two-thirds to 2.21 billion kronor.  
 Swedbank was the Swedish lender hit hardest by the economic
crisis after Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania suffered the steepest
recessions in the European Union last year. The bank, which
relied on government guarantees for funding until last July, has
raised a total of 27.5 billion kronor in two separate rights
offers in the past two years to replenish capital. It posted
losses in all four quarters of 2009.  
 “The first-quarter profit was a big positive surprise and
it is due mainly to lower-than-expected loan loss provisions,”
said Kimmo Rama, a Helsinki-based analyst at Evli Bank, who
has a "buy" rating on Swedbank shares.  
 Swedbank rose as much as 2.7 percent in Stockholm trading
and was up 2 percent to 74.80 kronor as of 9:32 a.m. local time.
The stock has gained 5.4 percent this year.  
 ‘Increasing Confidence’  
 “We have increasing confidence in a continuous profit
improvement, provided that the global macro economy develops
according to current expectations without any significant
deviations, especially in Latvia and Ukraine,” Swedbank Chief
Executive Officer Michael Wolf said in the statement.  
 Impaired credit and loans that are more than 60 days
overdue have stopped rising in the Baltics, the real estate
market has “shown signs of recovery,” and the inflow of new
impaired loans in Russia and Ukraine has been “low,” Swedbank
said. Its Baltic banking unit’s net loss narrowed to 1.22
billion kronor from 2.8 billion kronor a year earlier, after
credit impairments fell by 50 percent to 2.1 billion kronor.  
 The level of problem loans for banks operating in the
Baltic countries, led by Swedbank and Stockholm-based SEB AB and
Nordea AB, will continue to grow in the coming quarters, Moody’s
Investors Service said on April 26.  
 “We expect loan losses to peak only later in the year, as
asset quality indicators should start to stabilize with a
certain time lag after these countries reach the bottom of their
respective economic downturn,” Moody’s said in a report.  
 Exiting Program  
 Swedbank said on April 9 that it would leave the Swedish
aid program, which guarantees as much as 1.5 trillion kronor of
interbank lending, with “immediate effect” after raising
funding independently in the market. The bank borrowed a total
421.2 billion kronor using the government guarantees and will
hold parts of that debt until July 2014.  
 Net interest income, the difference between what the
Swedish bank makes from lending and pays for deposits, slumped
31 percent to 4.02 billion kronor in the first quarter. Swedbank
expects the pressure on the net interest income margin to
“bottom out” in the second half of this year.  
 “Net interest income on the other hand was a big
disappointment,” said Rama. “The focus now is on the core
profitability of banks, and particularly on the net interest
income.”  
 Swedbank was the first major Nordic bank to report earnings
for the quarter. SEB, the second-largest lender in the Baltics,
and Nordea, the biggest bank in the Nordic region, and Svenska
Handelsbanken AB are all scheduled to publish results tomorrow.  
 Swedish investment company Cevian Capital has acquired more
than 2 percent of the shares in Swedbank and may try to merge
the lender with Sweden’s SEB AB, Dagens Nyheter newspaper
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        