-- Swenson's Prepared Testimony at Goldman Sachs Congressional Hearing: Text
-- 
-- 2010-04-27T12:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/swenson-s-prepared-testimony-at-goldman-sachs-congressional-hearing-text.html

          
          
             
(The following is a reformatted version of a document issued by
Goldman Sachs and received via electronic mail. The document was
confirmed by the sender.)  
 U.S. SENATE PERMANENT SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATIONS  
 OPENING STATEMENT OF MICHAEL SWENSON  
 April 27, 2010  
 Good morning. Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Coburn, Members of
the Committee, my name is Michael Swenson. I am a Managing
Director in the mortgage department at Goldman Sachs, where I
have worked since 2000.  
 Let me begin by discussing my role with the firm in 2006 and
2007 and then give you a general chronology of the activities of
the ABS desk through this period. I was a Managing Director in
SPG Trading and co-managed the group. I was primarily
responsible for the Asset-Backed Securities (ABS) trading desk,
which was responsible for making markets in ABS securities and
derivatives for our customer franchise. The ABS desk traded
consumer ABS, sub-prime cash, singlename ABS credit default
swaps (which I will refer to as “single names”) and the
ABX indices, which are a family of synthetic indices that
reference a standard basket of 20 subprime deals.  
 Throughout 2006, numerous clients wanted to sell the ABX in
order to express a negative view on the U.S. residential housing
market. As a result of these trades, we took on long positions.
In order to hedge those positions, we began to increase
our short position in single-names. By November 2006, volatility
in the ABX increased, pushing prices down. Because our positions
in single names did not match identically the basket of
securities that comprised the ABX, the positions moved at
different rates and even different directions, resulting in
losses for the ABS desk.  
 On December 14, 2006, David Viniar, the firm’s CFO, called a
meeting to go over the mortgage department’s positions and risk.
I attended a portion of that meeting, during which we discussed
the ABS positions and the need to reduce the basis risk
in the book. We were instructed to reduce risk and get the
position “closer to home”; we were not told what direction to
take - just to get there.  
 In the first quarter of 2007, we sold ABX, where possible, and
increased our single name positions. However, the ABS desk
continued to lose money because the market value of our long ABX
positions was declining faster than our offsetting single names.  
 The relatively rapid decline in the index brought in a wave of
short-covering and some new long interest. As a result, the ABS
desk further reduced its long ABX position and purchased
additional single-names. Because of a concern that the ABS desk
was too short, it sold - or went long on - $2.8 billion in
single-names, thus reducing our short position.  
 In the second quarter of 2007, the ABS desk covered several
billion notional in single-names and purchased hundreds of
millions of ABX long positions as the ABX index recovered These
transactions reduced the desk’s short position, in effect
bringing the desk to a more balanced position.  
 Later in the quarter, the ABS desk increased its short position
after it took on the CDO warehouse inventory from the CDO group.
The inventory added several billion dollars in long RMBS
exposure to the ABS desk at a time when the market was
deteriorating. In order to manage this newly-assumed risk, the
ABS desk increased our position in single names.  
 At the end of the third quarter, the ABS desk engaged in large
block trades purchasing several billion notional of ABX risk
while concurrently selling down a portion of our single-name
positions - again, bringing the desk closer to home.  
 Throughout the period from late 2006 through much of 2007, the
ABS desk executed its market making functions as principal, and
our trades also reflected the views we had of the market.  
 The ABS desk did not only take short positions and, indeed, took
many positions that ultimately reduced profits that the mortgage
department otherwise might have realized. By reducing short
positions, we left money on the table. But that is the
nature of reducing risk while continuing to transact with
clients as a market-maker.  
 Thank you for your consideration. I am happy to answer any
questions members of the Subcommittee may have.  
 (bjh) NY  
 #<480199.660640.1.1.51.33055.76>#
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Michael Swenson of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Michael Swenson, managing director of structured products group trading at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., listens during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Michael Swenson, managing director of structured products group trading at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., listens during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
