-- Swiss Stocks Drop, Ending Two-Day Gain; UBS, Credit Suisse Lead Decline
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-04-27T11:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/swiss-stocks-drop-ending-two-day-gain-ubs-credit-suisse-lead-decline.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks fell, snapping a two-
day gain, amid concern that a financial assistance plan for
Greece won’t stop its debt crisis from spreading.  
 UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, Switzerland’s biggest
banks, declined as Deutsche Bank AG’s asset and wealth
management unit posted an unexpected loss. SGS SA dropped 3.1
percent as Oddo Securities cut its recommendation on the stock.
Holcim Ltd. followed European construction shares lower.  
 The Swiss Market Index, a gauge of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, lost 68.23, or 1 percent, to 6,735.41
as of 1:15 p.m. in Zurich. The measure has gained 2.9 percent
this year as central banks maintained record low interest rates
and the European Union agreed a contingency rescue plan to help
prevent Greece from defaulting on its debt. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also dropped 1 percent today.  
 “Activation of the emergency aid by Greece is not the
solution to the current tensions, merely the start of a new
phase of a multiyear reform process plagued initially by a great
deal of uncertainty,” Tammo Greetfeld, Munich-based senior
equity strategist at UniCredit Research, wrote in a note today.
“We are reiterating our cautious stance on equities for the
coming months.”  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she won’t release
funds for Greece until the nation has a “sustainable” plan to
reduce its shortfall.  
 ‘Homework First’  
 “I’ve said for weeks that Greece must do its homework
first,” Merkel said yesterday, drawing applause from an
audience in Soest in North Rhine-Westphalia, where state
elections are due on May 9.  
 The cost to protect Greek debt against default surged to a
record 762 basis points, according to CMA DataVision prices.
Contracts on Portugal rose to 344.5 and Spain increased to 204.  
 UBS lost 2.6 percent to 17.14 Swiss francs. Credit Suisse
retreated 1 percent to 51.2 francs. Deutsche Bank’s asset and
wealth management unit had a pretax loss of 5 million euros
($6.7 million) on costs tied to the integration of Sal.
Oppenheim Group and retirement expenses. That missed analysts’
estimate for a 111 million-euro profit. Julius Baer Group Ltd.,
the 120-year-old private bank, sank 2.2 percent to 37.95 francs.  
 SGS declined 3.1 percent to 1,451 francs. Oddo downgraded
the world’s biggest goods inspector to “add” from “buy.”  
 Holcim Rating  
 Holcim fell 1.7 percent to 83.4 francs as construction
shares declined across Europe. Jefferies Group Inc. initiated
coverage of the world’s second-biggest cement maker with a
“hold” recommendation and a price estimate of 89 francs.  
 ABB Ltd. plummeted 2.5 percent to 21.89 francs. Nomura
Holdings Inc. said in a note today that unless the world’s
largest builder of electricity networks “executes flawlessly on
its cost cutting program earnings expectations will come down
further.” The brokerage highlighted that “the situation in the
power-related end markets has deteriorated further.”  
 Austriamicrosystems AG gained 1 percent to 40.75 francs.
The Austrian chipmaker whose shares are listed in Switzerland
raised its sales forecast for the current fiscal year after
reporting first-quarter profit of 2 million euros, compared with
a loss of 8 million euros a year earlier.  
 Phoenix Mecano AG climbed 5.5 percent to 547.5 francs as
the maker of coin-recognition systems for vending machines said
first-quarter sales rose 27 percent to 120.5 million euros
compared with the year earlier.  
 Precious Woods Holding AG retreated 1.4 percent to 34.75
francs as the forestry company reported a loss excluding some
items of $28.1 million last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        