-- Stocks Drop as Europe Concern Offsets Consumer Data
-- Elizabeth Stanton
-- 2010-04-27T15:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-veeco-surges-goldman-sachs-declines.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down for a second day, as growing
concern Europe’s debt crisis is spreading overshadowed better-
than-estimated earnings and consumer confidence.  
 Alcoa Inc. and Caterpillar Inc. led the Dow Jones
Industrial Average lower as Standard & Poor’s reduction of
Portugal’s credit rating added to concern that Greece’s struggle
to finance its deficit will spread to other indebted European
nations. Ford Motor Co. fell more than 4 percent from a five-
year high as an analyst said first-quarter results were
“unsustainable.” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. rose as executives
testified to a Senate panel about mortgage-securities practices.  
 The S&P 500 declined 0.8 percent to 1,202.41 at 11:16 a.m.
in New York. The Dow lost 61.37 points, or 0.6 percent, to
11,143.66. Equities pared losses earlier as 3M Co. rallied on
better-than-estimated profit and the Conference Board’s consumer
sentiment gauge reached the highest since September 2008.  
 “Until you get more clarity around what the IMF and more
importantly the EU are going to do to help out Greece, you do
have more difficulty for risky assets such as stocks to do
well,” said David Chalupnik, head of equities at First American
Funds in Minneapolis, which manages $13 billion in stocks.  
 The S&P 500 retreated from a 19-month high yesterday as
concern that financial reform legislation will curb bank profits
overshadowed improving earnings at Caterpillar Inc. and
Whirlpool Corp. The main benchmark for American equities is up
79 percent from a 12-year low in 2009 after falling as much as
57 percent from a record in October 2007 amid a global recession
intensified by the collapse of the U.S. real estate market.  
 Greece Concern  
 Greek two-year notes tumbled, sending the yield above 15
percent, the highest level since at least 1998. Germany’s
Chancellor Angela Merkel said Greece must provide a program for
cutting its budget deficit before getting an EU-led bailout
package. Portuguese 10-year spreads, the extra yield that
investors demand to hold its debt rather than German
equivalents, jumped to 260 basis points today, the most since at
least 1997.  
 Home prices in 20 U.S. cities rose less than forecast in
February from a year earlier, a sign a housing recovery will
take time to develop. The S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index of
property values in 20 cities increased 0.6 percent from February
2009, the first gain since December 2006, the group said today
in New York. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a 1.3 percent advance.  
 ‘Unsustainable’ Results  
 Ford, the only U.S. auto company to avoid bankruptcy last
year, fell 4.4 percent to $13.82. Ford’s first-quarter earnings
of $2.1 billion, which topped the average analyst estimate, were
boosted by “unsustainable” gains at finance unit Ford Motor
Credit from rising resale prices, Himanshu Patel, a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst in New York, told investors in a note today.  
 Office Depot Inc. tumbled 14 percent, the most in the S&P
500, to $7.72. The second-largest U.S. office-supplies retailer
posted first-quarter profit excluding some items of 7 cents a
share, trailing the average analyst estimate by 14 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 About 80 percent of S&P 500 companies to have posted first-
quarter earnings have topped analysts’ projections, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit estimates for companies in
the index rose 9.1 percent on average in April, twice the gain
in prices and the largest monthly increase since at least 2006,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Earnings Watch  
 3M rose 1.9 percent to $89.13. The maker of 55,000 products
from dental implants to Post-It Notes topped analysts’ estimates
for first-quarter profit as sales rose at least 12 percent in
each of its main units.  
 Tellabs Inc. rose the most in the S&P 500, advancing 9.5
percent to $9. The supplier of network technology said second-
quarter sales will climb at least 10 percent from the previous
quarter. That amounts to about $418 million, beating the $386.5
million average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Lexmark International Inc. gained 4.6 percent to $41.78.
The second-largest U.S. printer maker forecast second-quarter
profit of 85 cents to 95 cents a share, excluding some items,
compared with the 73-cent average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Goldman Gains  
 Goldman Sachs rose 2.4 percent to $155.63 as the Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations began a hearing to
discuss the company’s business practices leading up to the
collapse of the subprime mortgage market.  
 Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who leads the subcommittee,
released documents that he said showed the company “put its own
interest and profit ahead of the interests of its clients,” a
conflict he called on Congress to end. Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman
Sachs’s chairman and chief executive officer, will dispute that
assertion and argue the firm was merely managing its own risk.  
 The Senate is debating financial reform legislation that
could prevent banks from trading for their own accounts and
require them to separate derivatives businesses from regulated
depository subsidiaries. Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer
David Viniar estimated in January that approximately 10 percent
of the company’s revenue derives from trading that has no
connection with customer business.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians pass Mercury House, the main entrance to the Goldman Sachs offices at 133 Fleet Street in London, on April 26, 2010. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Daniel Sparks, former partner and head of mortgages with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., left to right, Michael Swenson, managing director of structured products group trading with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Joshua Birnbaum, former managing director of structured products group trading with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and Fabrice Tourre, executive director of structured products group trading with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., swear in during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
