-- Stocks Drop Most Since Feb. on European Concerns
-- Elizabeth Stanton
-- 2010-04-27T20:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/u-s-stocks-extend-losses-as-standard-poor-s-cuts-greek-ratings-to-junk.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks tumbled, sending
benchmark indexes down the most since February, as credit-rating
downgrades of Greece and Portugal spurred concern Europe’s debt
crisis will derail the global economic recovery.  
 Alcoa Inc. and Caterpillar Inc. led declines in all but two
of the 30 companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average as the
perceived risk of default increased for government debt issues
by Greece, whose rating was cut to junk, and Portugal. Ford
Motor Co. fell 6.2 percent from a five-year high as an analyst
said first-quarter results were “unsustainable.” Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. had the only gain among the 79 financial companies in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index as executives testified to a
Senate subcommittee about mortgage securities.  
 The S&P 500 declined 2.3 percent to 1,183.71 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The Dow lost 213.04 points, or 1.9 percent, to
10,991.99. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index,
the benchmark gauge of U.S. stock options, jumped 32 percent to
22.98 for its biggest increase since September 2008 on demand
for protection against losses in equities.  
 “I think we’ll see strong performances from corporate
America, but we’re going to have this dynamic in the background
with respect to the well-being of these countries whose
sovereign debts are now being marked down,” said Matthew
Kaufler, a portfolio manager at Federated Clover Investment
Advisors in Rochester, New York, which manages $3 billion. “The
fear is that this is going to set off a domino effect.”  
 This is the second plunge exceeding 1 percent by the S&P
500 since April 16, when it retreated after the Securities and
Exchange Commission sued Goldman Sachs for fraud. Fabrice
Tourre, the Goldman Sachs executive director who was also sued
by the SEC, told the Senate subcommittee that he will defend
himself in court against the suit.  
 ‘Deny Categorically’  
 “I deny categorically the SEC’s allegations,” Tourre, 31,
said today in Washington. “I will defend myself in court
against this false claim,” he said, adding that a mortgage-
related investment at the center of the suit “was not designed
to fail.”  
 Goldman Sachs advanced 0.6 percent to $152.95, while the
S&P 500 Financials Index retreated 3.4 percent. The Senate is
debating financial reform legislation that could prevent banks
from trading for their own accounts and require them to separate
derivatives businesses from regulated depository subsidiaries.  
 The S&P 500 retreated from a 19-month high yesterday as
concern that financial reform legislation will curb bank profits
overshadowed improving earnings at Caterpillar Inc. and
Whirlpool Corp. The main benchmark for American equities is up
75 percent from a 12-year low in 2009 after falling as much as
57 percent from a record in October 2007 amid a global recession
intensified by the collapse of the U.S. real estate market.  
 Ratings Downgrades  
 Greece was lowered to BB+ from BBB+ by S&P, which also
warned that bondholders could recover as little as 30 percent of
their initial investment if the country restructures its debt.
The Greek move came minutes after the rating company reduced
Portugal by two steps to A- from A+.  
 Credit-default swaps on European sovereign debt surged to
records. Contracts tied to Greek government bonds climbed 111
basis points to 821, according to CMA DataVision. Portugal rose
54 basis points to 365. Yields on Greek two-year notes surged
above 18 percent, the highest since at least 1998.  
 “Sovereign debt issues is a serious situation, and it’s
going to be with us for years,” said Ralph Shive, manager of
the $1.7 billion Wasatch-1st Source Income Equity Fund. “This
is a story about debt gone bad, which is the story of the last
five years.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        