-- U.S. Steel Reports Smallest Loss in Five Quarters as Metal Prices Increase
-- Edmond Lococo
-- 2010-04-27T20:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/u-s-steel-posts-smallest-loss-in-five-quarters-on-higher-prices-revenue.html

          
          
             U.S. Steel Corp., the nation’s
second-largest domestic steelmaker by sales, reported its
smallest loss in five quarters as higher metal prices and sales
reduced the effect of rising material costs.  
 The first-quarter net loss of $157 million, or $1.10 a
share, was smaller than analysts estimated and narrowed from a
loss of $439 million, or $3.78, a year earlier, Pittsburgh-based
U.S. Steel said today in a statement. Sales rose 42 percent to
$3.9 billion.  
 Chief Executive Officer John Surma said in January the
company was seeing improved order rates for the metal from
customers making cars and appliances, while demand for steel
used in construction was still “soft.” U.S. Steel is reaping
the benefits of having its own iron-ore supplies as costs for
the key steelmaking ingredient jumped 90 percent.  
 “U.S. Steel is poised to show significant improvement in
margins and profitability in the coming quarters,” David
Martin, a New York-based analyst with Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in
an April 13 report. “Raw material costs for steelmaking are
rising, and U.S. Steel is a leading beneficiary in our coverage
of this trend via its integrated business model.”  
 U.S. Steel was projected to report a loss excluding some
items of $1.39 a share, the average estimate of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales were projected to rise to $3.78
billion.  
 ‘Steady Recovery’  
 “Our operating results have been making a slow and steady
recovery since hitting a low point in the first quarter of 2009
until this quarter, when the benefits of improved utilization
rates and selling prices began to be realized in a more
significant way,” Surma said on a conference call with analysts
today. Surma predicted a return to profit this quarter.  
 The company had costs of about $27 million in the quarter
for tax benefits ended under the new U.S. health-care
legislation.  
 “It was nice to see that turnaround in momentum,” Mark
Parr, a Cleveland-based analyst at Keybanc Capital Markets, said
on today’s call. “It’s too bad the market took the gas out of
the stock today, but I think that’s hopefully just a short-term
thing.”  
 U.S. Steel fell $3.44, or 5.7 percent, to $56.63 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
more than doubled in the past year.  
 Stocks tumbled globally, with the benchmark European index
sinking the most since November, as credit-rating downgrades of
Greece and Portugal fueled concern debt-laden nations are moving
closer to default. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1.9
percent.  
 Steel, Iron Ore  
 Steel prices in the U.S. increased to the highest level in
16 months in March as producers passed on rising costs for raw
materials. The average price of hot-rolled steel sheet, the
benchmark metal used in autos and appliances, climbed to $650 a
ton, on average, in March from $500 in December, according to
Purchasing magazine.  
 Brazil’s Vale SA and BHP Billiton Ltd., based in Melbourne,
this year broke with a 40-year custom of selling iron ore on
annual contracts, with the Brazilian supplier winning a 90
percent price increase from Japanese mills for quarterly
contracts started April 1.  
 AK Steel Holding Corp., the third-largest U.S. steelmaker
by 2009 sales, on April 20 said rising iron-ore costs may harm
second-quarter profit.  
 Nucor Corp., the largest U.S. steelmaker by 2009 sales,
reported April 22 its second straight quarterly profit, with net
income of $31 million, or 10 cents a share. The company doesn’t
use iron ore, working instead by recycling scrap steel to make
metal.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Boston at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Delaney in Toronto at 
 robdelaney@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        