-- U.S. Safety Regulator Inspects Three Massey Coal Mines, Orders Workers Out
-- Paul Burkhardt
-- 2010-04-27T21:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/u-s-safety-regulator-inspects-three-massey-coal-mines-orders-workers-out.html

          
          
             The U.S. Mine Safety and Health
Administration said it inspected three Massey Energy Co. mines
for hazardous conditions in response to anonymous complaints,
and ordered workers out of designated areas at each site.  
 Inspectors made surprise visits to the mines in West
Virginia, seizing telephone lines at two sites to prevent
employees from alerting colleagues, and issued multiple
citations for serious violations, the agency said in a
statement. Massey said it fired eight employees and another quit
following the agency’s actions.  
 “Each one of these inspections resulting from anonymous
complaints reflects a serious disregard for the safety and
health of the miners,” Joseph Main, assistant secretary of
Labor for mine safety and health, said in the statement.
“What’s especially troubling is that one of the complaints came
in just days after the explosion at Upper Big Branch Mine.”  
 Regulators are reviewing mine safety after 29 workers died
at Massey’s Upper Big Branch Mine in Montcoal, West Virginia, in
an April 5 blast, the worst U.S. coal mining explosion in 40
years, according to the National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health.  
 “Even though Massey disagrees with some of the citations
written, there were conditions found that did not meet industry
requirements,” the company said in a statement.  
 Shares Decline  
 Massey plunged $2.25, or 5.2 percent, to $41.36 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 24
percent since the fatal blast.  
 The U.S. received complaints about the West Virginia mines
owned by Massey and run by Spartan Mining Co. in Wyoming County
and Inman Energy and Independence Coal Co. in Boone County.  
 Spartan and Inman were cited for inadequate ventilation and
Independence for illegally cutting into the coal face.
Inspectors also found roof bolts at the Independence mine were
sheared off and damaged, raising the risk of a collapse, the
agency said.  
 At the Randolph mine, operated by Inman, MSHA said the
operator wasn’t providing an adequate amount of fresh air and
decreasing coal mine dust enough to reduce the risk of
explosion.  
 Massey said disciplinary action was taken against employees
at the cited mines “in keeping” with its “culture of
accountability and safety first.”  
 MSHA, in a preliminary report to President Barack Obama,
said most mine explosions of the magnitude of Upper Big Branch
are sparked by accumulations of methane, combustible coal dust
and air.  
 Company Defends Record  
 The company has defended its record, saying in a statement
April 15 that “some are rushing to judgment for political gain
or to avoid blame” for the explosion. Massey won three awards
from the mine-safety agency in 2009, the company said.  
 Three Massey mines are among the top 20 in the U.S. ranked
by the number of “significant and substantial” violations
accrued since January 2009, according to MSHA.  
 The company was sued last week by a pension fund over
claims that directors’ failed to address poor safety conditions
that led to the Upper Big Branch disaster.  
 New York State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli asked
investors today to withhold votes for the re-election of Baxter
Phillips, Richard Gabrys and Dan Moore to the board of
directors. Earlier this month, he called for Chief Executive
Officer Donald Blankenship’s resignation.  
 Board Support  
 Yesterday, Bobby Inman, a board director, said Blankenship
has the board’s “full support” and that it doesn’t make sense
to change management in “the middle of a crisis.” He said the
board will determine whether a change is necessary after all the
facts are in.  
 Stanley C. Suboleski, a Massey director and former interim
chief operating officer, said yesterday that MSHA ordered the
company to install a complex ventilation system in the Upper Big
Branch mine.  
 The agency later issued a statement saying that the company
had the option to either revise the ventilation plan or repair
the conditions in the mine, a claim that Massey said a separate
statement is “inaccurate.”  
 A telephone message and e-mail for Amy Louviere, an MSHA
spokeswoman, weren’t immediately returned.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        