-- Lubricating Bubbles May Help Branson War on Shipping Pollution
-- Kyunghee Park
-- 2010-04-28T00:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/lubricating-bubbles-may-aid-in-branson-s-war-on-ships-carbon-emissions.html

          
          
             Looming United Nations measures to
halve carbon emissions from commercial ships have Nippon Yusen
K.K., owner of the world’s second-largest fleet, designing a
vessel that is propelled by sails and glides on lubricating
bubbles.  
 Other shipping lines are also aiming to cut greenhouse
gases. China Cosco Holdings Co., the nation’s largest container-
ship operator, may reintroduce nuclear power for moving cargo.
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the biggest container-shipping company,
already cut sailing speeds by half.  
 The shipping industry, the sixth-largest source of warming
gases, also is the first target of billionaire Richard Branson’s
Carbon War Room. Commercial vessels emitted 3 percent of the
world’s carbon in 2007, and that may increase to 18 percent by
2050 as global trade increases and fleets expand, said the UN’s
International Maritime Organization.  
 “The marine industry is gearing up for the biggest
revolution since World War II,” said Lee Sokje, an analyst at
Mirae Asset Securities Co. in Seoul. “You’re either ahead of
the game or you’re out.”  
 Emissions targets being negotiated by the IMO and industry
may be adopted in 2012 with fines for violators, prompting
shipping companies to research renewable-energy technologies
while also slowing vessels.  
 Possible Penalties  
 Penalties could reach $75 per ton of carbon emissions above
a still-undetermined level, according to Det Norske Veritas, a
Hovik, Norway-based ship assessor. The money would fund research
and development of cleaner technologies.  
 “We’re hoping that a target will be set for the airline
industry, a target will be set for the shipping industry and, if
the industries don’t meet those targets, it will cost them
money,” Branson said April 21. “Hopefully, that money will
then go to the rainforest and will be invested in technological
innovations.”  
 Cargo ships carry about 80 percent of global trade. The
industry emitted 870 million tons of carbon dioxide in 2007, the
IMO said. By comparison, Germany emitted 956 million tons of
greenhouse gases that year.  
 IMO standards likely won’t be adopted until at least 2012,
said Ron Widdows, chairman of the 29-member World Shipping
Council, which represents the liner industry, and chief
executive officer of Neptune Orient Lines Ltd., owner of
Southeast Asia’s biggest container-shipping company.  
 Climate Talks  
 The IMO proposal follows international talks in Copenhagen
in December to reduce discharges of greenhouse gases and keep
the global rise in temperatures since industrialization in the
1800s to 2 degrees Celsius (36 degrees Fahrenheit). The next
round of UN climate talks is scheduled for late this year in
Cancun, Mexico.  
 Nippon Yusen is spending 70 billion yen ($743 million) over
five years on emissions control. Its NYK Super Eco Ship 2030
could emit 69 percent less carbon dioxide than existing carriers
by using alternative energies and liquefied natural gas, the
Tokyo-based line said on its Web site.  
 Its main power source would be LNG fuel cells, which emit
30 percent less carbon dioxide than diesel. Power also would be
generated by at least eight sails and 31,000 square meters of
solar panels, including on the sides.  
 Bubbles, Reactors  
 Air bubbles ejected under the bow to reduce friction could
save 10 percent on power requirements, the company said.  
 “Not a joke. Not a toy. Not only a dream,” Nippon Yusen’s
Web site says.  
 The company may order two fuel-efficient car carriers this
year that would reduce consumption by 40 percent, President
Yasumi Kudo said.  
 China Cosco may revive nuclear-powered cargo ships, first
introduced in 1962 with the U.S.-flagged NS Savannah. The U.S.
Maritime Administration vessel was decommissioned in 1972
because of high maintenance costs.  
 Japan and Germany also used and decommissioned nuclear-
fueled vessels.  
 “We are not only looking into nuclear, but also wind
energy and solar energy,” said Zhang Liang, president of China
Cosco. “We have to take up more social responsibility,
particularly in energy saving and environment protection.”  
 He could not say how much the company was spending.  
 ‘Prices Through Roof’  
 Yet Mirae’s Lee said the costs of building and running
alternative-energy ships make them more of a dream than a
reality. The cost to build a nuclear-propelled vessel may be
twice that of a standard vessel, DNV said.  
 The biggest crude oil carrier costs about $98 million,
according to Clarkson Plc. Also, the technology for putting
reactors in commercial ships is “immature” and may not be
viable for another 20 years, DNV said.  
 “Ship prices are going to go through the roof if any of
these ships using renewable energy are built,” Lee said.
“That’s why most of the ideas being studied now will remain
just that: ideas.”  
 The IMO previously took steps to reduce the sulfur content
in fuels to 0.5 percent from the current 4.5 percent by Jan. 1,
2020. Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s largest shipyard,
last month delivered the first engine meeting IMO standards.  
 The quickest way to reduce carbon emissions is to slow down,
according to the Transpacific Stabilization Agreement, which
counts Maersk among its 15 members.  
 Reducing speed by 10 percent can pare fuel consumption by
up to 30 percent, according to DNV. Slowing speeds by 25 percent
can reduce carbon emissions by more than 350 tons a day, the TSA
group said.  
 Clients of Singapore-based ship lessor Rickmers Maritime,
including Maersk and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., save up to
$40,000 a day by halving speeds to 12 knots, said Thomas Preben
Hansen, chief executive officer.  
 “Greenhouse reduction comes from burning less stuff,”
Widdows said. “You can only do that if you go slower until
other technologies come up.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A ship spewing heavy smoke is pictured on the Bosphorus off the coast of Istanbul, on April 21, 2009. Photographer: Bulent Kilic/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Richard Branson, founder of Virgin Group Ltd.  
                       
                         
                           Jay Mallin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Richard Branson, chairman and founder of Virgin Group Ltd., listens during the Creating Climate Wealth Summit in Washington, on April 21, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Richard Branson, chairman and founder of Virgin Group Ltd., listens during the Creating Climate Wealth Summit in Washington, on April 21, 2010. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Zhang Liang, president of China Cosco Holdings Co.  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Zhang Liang, president of China Cosco Holdings Co., speaks at the company's 2009 annual results news conference in Hong Kong, on April 23, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Zhang Liang, president of China Cosco Holdings Co., speaks at the company's 2009 annual results news conference in Hong Kong, on April 23, 2010. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
