-- Udvar-Hazy Seeks Capital for `Huge' New Jet Lessor
-- Susanna Ray
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/udvar-hazy-seeks-capital-for-huge-jet-lessor-being-founded-with-plueger.html

          
          
             Steven Udvar-Hazy, who left
International Lease Finance Corp. in February, is seeking
capital for a new aircraft lessor, Air Lease Corp., that he’s
founding with former colleague John Plueger.  
 “It’ll be huge,” the 64-year-old Hungarian-born
entrepreneur said of his new company in an interview during a
conference in New York yesterday. Udvar-Hazy said it wouldn’t be
“much longer” before he’s out of a quiet period and will be
able to give details about Air Lease.  
 Udvar-Hazy built ILFC into the world’s largest plane lessor
and the biggest customer for Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS before
selling it to insurer American International Group Inc. in 1990.
He left as chief executive officer of the Los Angeles-based firm
more than a year after it lost funding options because of credit
downgrades to AIG, which is divesting assets to repay a U.S.
bailout of $182.3 billion.  
 Plueger, who was ILFC’s chief operating officer at the
time, replaced him temporarily as CEO before leaving in March to
rejoin Udvar-Hazy.  
 “The last financial nightmare taught us a lesson,” Udvar-
Hazy told a roomful of bankers, lessors and aviation executives
at Euromoney’s Airfinance conference. Before the financial
crisis froze credit markets in 2008, a leasing company could
have been started with a 4-to-1 or 5-to-1 ratio of debt to
equity, he said. Greater difficulty in obtaining credit in
today’s climate means that every dollar of equity invested in a
new leasing enterprise now could expect to attract 2.5 or 3
times that in bank debt or bonds, he said.  
 Aircraft Assets  
 New investment groups including Avolon, Greenstone Aviation
and Jackson Square Aviation have begun assembling private-equity
money to invest in aircraft assets at the bottom of the cycle,
seeking to benefit from the recession-induced downturn in the
air-travel industry.  
 Any investors putting equity into buying new or used
aircraft would expect to leverage that by raising debt to pay
for the planes, a strategy hindered by banks’ reluctance to lend
money.  
 Udvar-Hazy said he is confident that strong management at
newly formed leasing companies will be able to raise debt and
that lessors are better bets than individual airlines.  
 “If you’re a bondholder or a bank lender, it’s safer to
loan money to a leasing company because you’re loaning to
diversified portfolios,” he said. Last year, he said, when
parent company AIG “had one leg in the cemetery,” ILFC
generated $1.4 billion in earnings on about 1,000 leased
aircraft with 107 employees and had a 26 percent profit margin.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in New York via 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Steven Udvar-Hazy, of International Lease Finance Corp.  
                       
                         
                           Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Steven Udvar-Hazy, founder, chairman and chief executive officer of International Lease Finance Corp. (ILFC), speaks during an interview at the International Air Transport Association (IATA) annual meeting in Kuala Lumpur, on June 8, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Steven Udvar-Hazy, founder, chairman and chief executive officer of International Lease Finance Corp. (ILFC), speaks during an interview at the International Air Transport Association (IATA) annual meeting in Kuala Lumpur, on June 8, 2009. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
