-- Mukherjee Secures Regional Support Needed to Defeat Opposition in Tax Vote
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-04-27T07:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/mukherjee-faces-test-of-strength-as-opposition-forces-vote-on-fuel-duties.html

          
          
             India’s Finance Minister Pranab
Mukherjee secured the support of a regional party before a
budget vote today, giving the government the strength it needs
to fend off the latest opposition offensive.  
 With the backing of the 21 lawmakers of Mayawati’s Bahujan
Samaj Party, the Congress party-led ruling alliance has a
majority of at least 12 in the lower house of Parliament where a
dozen opposition parties will force a so-called cut motion
ballot on fuel duties they say are driving prices higher.
Scandals last week and this triggered by claims of phone-tapping
and corruption in cricket have battered the government and
stalled the legislature.  
 The “government needs to change its economic and strategic
policies” which are responsible for rising prices, Mayawati,
who draws her support mainly from those at the bottom of India’s
caste hierarchy, said in a televised press conference.  
 Her party won’t support the opposition in the vote as it’s
opposed to the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party’s
“communal” politics, she said in Lucknow, the capital of her
party’s stronghold, Uttar Pradesh. The ruling alliance is nine
seats short of a majority in the 545-member lower house.  
 Mukherjee pulled out of the G-20 summit in Washington to
ensure victory in the vote because an administration that is
defeated on a budget-related issue is considered to have lost
its majority in Parliament.  
 Legislation Stalled  
 A year after Congress secured its biggest election win in
two decades its reliance on minority parties has stalled
legislation that would allow Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to open retail
outlets and Prudential Plc to expand. Mayawati in 2007 ordered
the closure of Reliance Industries Ltd.’s outlets in two cities
in Uttar Pradesh, where she is chief minister, after protests by
owners of small shops.  
 “The government is not going to fall because of this as
the left parties lack the strength to defeat the government,” N.
Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the Centre for Media Studies in New
Delhi, said before Mayawati’s vow to support Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh. Still, “it definitely dents its ability to push
forward critical reforms.”  
 Opposition parties, including the Communist Party of India
(Marxist) and the Samajwadi Party have been demanding a roll
back of import duty and excise tax imposed on crude oil and
refined products by Mukherjee in the Feb. 26 budget. The levies
are fuelling prices and hurting the poor, they say.  
 Parliamentary Motion  
 “The government has completely failed in controlling
prices,” said Basudeb Acharia, a Communist lawmaker. “We will
move a cut motion today against the government’s move on fuel
duties.”  
 Protests in Parliament led to the adjournment of the lower
house until 2 p.m. local time. A nationwide strike called by the
13 parties behind the vote disrupted rail and air travel in some
states.  
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. canceled 31 flights, the airline
said in a statement. Train services have been disrupted in West
Bengal and Orissa states as protesters demonstrated at 22
stations, S. Mazumdar, a spokesman for South Eastern Railways,
said by phone from Kolkata.  
 India’s consumer prices are rising among the fastest in the
Asia-Pacific. Inflation is a sensitive issue in India, where the
World Bank estimates three-fourths of the 1.2 billion people
live on less than $2 a day.  
 Singh won re-election last May as Congress swept to its
biggest victory in two decades. Even with its success, Mukherjee
said in March he lacks the support to allow more foreign
investment in retail and insurance. The government needs the
“absolute majority of a single party” to make key policy
changes, he said.  
 Costly Food  
 Higher commodity and food prices pushed the benchmark
wholesale-price inflation rate to 9.9 percent in March, the
highest in 17 months, while the consumer prices paid by
industrial workers rose 14.86 percent in February, the highest
in the region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Food-price inflation has stayed above 15 percent since
November, contributing to two interest rate increases in a month
by the Reserve Bank of India. The central bank on April 20
raised all the three policy rates by a quarter point, saying
“there is a need to ensure that demand-side inflation does not
become entrenched.”  
 Indian oil companies including Indian Oil Corp., the
nation’s biggest state-owned refiner, Bharat Petroleum Corp. and
Hindustan Petroleum Corp. raised prices of fuels after Mukherjee
increased import taxes and excise duty on crude oil, gasoline
and diesel.  
 ‘Phones Tapped’  
 The BJP last week blocked roads in the national capital,
New Delhi, and held protest demonstrations near parliament to
demand the government take action to ease the burden of rising
prices on the poor.  
 Singh’s government has had a tough time in Parliament since
the current session reconvened on April 15.  
 Opposition lawmakers yesterday blocked all debates as they
demanded the government respond to reports that senior
politicians have had telephone calls intercepted and recorded.
Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram denied the charge.
Proposed legislation on reserving seats for women in the
legislature and accident liability for nuclear power generators
are being reconsidered after protests by lawmakers.  
 Parliament proceedings were paralyzed last week by a
cricket scandal that forced India’s junior foreign minister,
Shashi Tharoor, to resign.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        