-- Ukrainian Parliament Approves 2010 State Budget, Paving Way for IMF Loan
-- Kateryna Choursina
-- 2010-04-27T09:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/ukrainian-parliament-approves-2010-state-budget-paving-way-for-imf-loan.html

          
          
             Ukraine’s parliament approved the
2010 state budget with a deficit of 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product, opening the way for the next payment of the
country’s International Monetary Fund loan.  
 Two hundred and forty-five deputies voted in favor of the
budget, which the previous government failed to adopt last year,
leading to a freezing of disbursements from the IMF credit.
Lawmakers approved the bill in one vote instead of the customary
three readings.  
 “This budget will allow us to move forward, to step
forward on our way to reforms,” Finance Minister Fedir
Yaroshenko told a smoke-filled parliament after opposition and
government members fought, hurled eggs at each other and lit
tossed smoke bombs in the building over a law that ratified an
agreement allowing Russia to keep its fleet in the port of
Sevastopol until at least 2042.  
 Ukraine was forced to turn to the Washington-based lender
for help in late 2008 after the global financial crisis pushed
the economy into a recession and weakened its currency. A
failure by the government to cut spending before January
presidential elections pushed the budget shortfall to 8.8
percent of GDP, beyond the 4 percent limit set out in the loan
agreement. In November, the IMF froze access to the loan.  
 The former Soviet state is now seeking a $20 billion loan
until 2012, Deputy Prime Minister Serhiy Tigipko said on April
23. The IMF, which has yet to confirm the agreement, has said
the budget gap must be no wider than 6 percent of GDP this year
for the country’s loan program to continue.  
 The IMF’s money will be used to “implement reforms to
boost economy,” Tigipko said last month. Ukraine’s economy
shrank 15.1 percent last year, the deepest decline since 1994,
according to the state statistics data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        