-- U.K. Hung Parliament Would Mean `Bad News' Outcome for Banks, Gieve Says
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-04-27T12:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/hung-parliament-may-be-bad-news-for-banks-former-boe-official-gieve-says.html

          
          
             A U.K. election result giving the
Liberal Democrats the balance of power next week could mean
“bad news for banks,” former Bank of England Deputy Governor
John Gieve said.  
 “It’s bad news for banks if you have Liberal Democrat
influence,” Gieve, a senior advisor to GLG Partners Inc., told
reporters at an event organized by GLG in London today. “The
Liberal Democrats have been forceful on separating banking and
trading; Tories could be pushed in that direction.”  
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc should remain in British government ownership for 10 years,
Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman Vince Cable said today.
Lloyds, 41 percent owned by the government, reported a profit
today for the first time since 2008 as bad loans declined.  
 Cable’s party may the key to who governs Britain after the
May 6 election, which opinion polls suggest will give neither
the ruling Labour Party nor the main opposition Conservatives a
majority in the House of Commons. That might mean the Liberal
Democrats demanding acceptance of some of their policies in
return for providing support in Parliament.  
 Gieve, whose career includes 20 years at the U.K. Treasury
and three years at the Bank of England, said the prospect of
Liberal Democrat involvement in the next government raises the
prospect for higher taxes on banks.  
 “Taxes on banks seem a dead certainty,” said Gieve, who
was hired by GLG in December. “If you’re going to have a tax,
why not a big tax? Why not 4 or 5 billion pounds?”  
 Gieve, 60, oversaw financial stability during the Northern
Rock Plc panic and the collapse of investment bank Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, and helped implement new
regulations that gave the Bank of England more power to oversee
lenders. He left the central bank in March 2009 and signed on as
senior adviser to London-based hedge fund and mutual fund
manager GLG in December.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Cahill in London at 
 tcahill@bloomberg.net 
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        