-- Hungarian Forint Drops Most Since January on Greek Risk, Attack on Simor
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-04-27T15:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/hungarian-forint-drops-most-since-january-on-greek-risk-attack-on-simor.html

          
          
             Hungary’s forint dropped the most
in five months on concern the next government may replace the
central bank president, while speculation the Greek debt crisis
may prove contagious hurt demand for emerging-market assets.  
 The forint weakened 2.1 percent, the most since Nov. 26, to
268.74 per euro at 5:48 p.m. in Budapest, the worst performance
among the 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Poland’s zloty dropped 1.4 percent to a 11-week intraday low of
3.9355 per euro. Romania’s leu lost 0.4 percent and the Czech
koruna slid 0.5 percent against the common European currency.  
 European stocks and emerging Europe’s currencies fell amid
concern the aid package for Greece won’t stop its debt crisis
from spreading. Fidesz, Hungary’s new ruling party, called on
central bank President Andras Simor to resign today.  
 “Mounting concern about the rescue of Greece’s public
finances” put “the region’s currencies under big selling
pressure,” Komercni Banka AS economist Miroslav Frayer in Prague
wrote in a note to clients today. The attack on Simor “wasn’t
good news for the forint” as it “raises doubts among market
players about the central bank’s independence.”  
 ‘Toxic Mix’  
 Fidesz won a two-thirds majority in the election concluded
on April 25, giving the next administration enough power to
change any laws including the constitution.  
 Premier-in-waiting Viktor Orban said yesterday that the
central bank shouldn’t be a place for “offshore knights,”
referring to Simor’s earlier investments in Cyprus. The Magyar
Nemzeti Bank chief should resign, Zoltan Pokorni, vice chairman
at Fidesz, said today.  
 Spending cuts by the outgoing government restored investor
confidence in the economy and allowed the central bank to
gradually cut interest rates after Hungary received an emergency
loan in 2008 to avert default. Fidesz has said the central bank
deepened the economic crisis by being slow to cut rates.  
 Fidesz “risk undoing very quickly the sentiment” outgoing
Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai and Simor built up, Peter Attard
Montalto, emerging-markets economist at Nomura in London, said
in an e-mail today. “This all makes for a toxic mix of both
currency and mid to long rates.”  
 The benchmark 8 percent government bond maturing in 2015
fell most since Feb. 5, pushing the yield up 16 basis points to
5.856 percent.  
 More Cuts  
 Magyar Nemzeti Bank yesterday reduced its two-week deposit
rate to 5.25 percent, the lowest since communism ended 20 years
ago, from 5.5 percent. Policy makers have cut the key rate by
4.25 percentage points since July as a 6.3 percent economic
contraction last year blunted price pressures. The outlook for
growth and inflation calls for further rate cuts, the bank said.  
 “There is no reason whatsoever that justifies a stricter
monetary policy,” MNB President Andras Simor said. “A
strengthening forint obviously tightens monetary policy.”  
 Hungary sacrificed economic growth and pledged to keep its
deficit within 3.8 percent of gross domestic product this year
to qualify for the International Monetary Fund-led bailout.
Orban said yesterday the target is unsustainable and that his
country wants to renegotiate the loan terms to boost growth.  
 “The Hungarian central bank will likely continue in
monetary easing going forward,” Danske Bank A/S analysts wrote
in a report to clients today. “Fidesz’s victory will lead to a
loosening of fiscal policy, which is rather more negative than
positive for Hungary.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 Ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        