-- Hungarian Attacks on Central Banker Are `Toxic' for Economy, Nomura Says
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-04-27T10:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/hungarian-attacks-on-central-banker-are-toxic-for-economy-nomura-says.html

          
          
             Hungary’s new ruling party urging
central bank President Andras Simor to quit is unnerving
investors who credit the policy maker with helping restore
confidence in the country, Nomura International Plc said.  
 Simor, whose mandate runs until 2013, should resign, Zoltan
Pokorni, a deputy chairman of the Fidesz party which won
elections that concluded on April 25, said on TV2 today. Viktor
Orban, the next premier, yesterday said the central bank
shouldn’t be a place for “off-shore knights,” in reference to
investments that Simor, 55, earlier kept in Cyprus.  
 Hungary was the first European Union country to obtain a
bailout in 2008 to avoid a default during the credit crisis.
Spending cuts by the Socialist government restored investor
confidence in the economy and allowed the central bank to
gradually cut the benchmark rate from the EU’s highest to a
record low. Fidesz says the central bank deepened the economic
crisis by being slow to cut rates.  
 “Fidesz are not making life easy for themselves by doing
this and risk undoing very quickly the sentiment” outgoing
Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai and Simor built up, Peter Attard
Montalto, a London-based emerging-markets economist at Nomura,
said in an e-mail today. “This all makes for a toxic mix of
both currency and mid to long rates.”  
 Forint Plunges  
 The forint weakened as 1.2 percent to 266.30 per euro by
12:33 p.m. in Budapest, falling the most since Jan. 20. The
five-year credit-default swap, which measures the cost of
protecting against a default, rose to 188.375 yesterday from
185.125 on April 23.  
 Simor yesterday said the bank doesn’t rule out intervention
if the forint continues to strengthen.  
 Monetary policy makers raised the benchmark two-week
deposit rate to 11.5 percent from 8.5 percent in October 2008 to
defend the forint when the country was forced to obtain a
bailout as demand dried up for government bonds. The bank has
since cut the rate to 5.25 percent, with its 10th consecutive
reduction yesterday.  
 Simor was appointed for a six-year term on March 3, 2007,
by Socialist Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany. The Socialists
were ousted in the elections after eight years in power. His
resignation would make him the third Hungarian central bank
chief since the end of communism in 1990 to leave before his
term ends.  
 Gyorgy Suranyi lost his job after one year in 1991 when the
country’s first freely elected government changed the central
bank law to give the prime minister the power to replace him. He
served a full term from 1995 to 2001. Orban, who became premier
in 1998, clashed with Suranyi over the relaxation of currency
controls and losses at the central bank’s Austrian unit.  
 Peter Akos Bod, central bank chief from 1991 to 1994,
resigned midway through his term, citing “political conflicts”
over the bank’s independence with the Socialist government that
months earlier ousted the previous administration which had
installed him.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        