-- Hungary's Forint Drops 1st Day in 3 on Rates, New Premier's Deficit Plan
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-04-27T09:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/hungary-s-forint-drops-1st-day-in-3-on-rates-new-premier-s-deficit-plan.html

          
          
             Hungary’s forint weakened after two
days of gains, leading declines in emerging Europe currencies,
on speculation the central bank will keep cutting interest rates
and on concern the new government may widen the budget deficit.  
 The forint lost as much as 0.8 percent and traded down 0.6
percent at 264.76 per euro as of 10:30 a.m. in Budapest.
Poland’s zloty dropped 0.4 percent to 3.8956 per euro and the
Czech koruna was little changed at 25.432 per euro.  
 The central bank yesterday cut the benchmark rate for the
10th consecutive month and said it does not rule out market
intervention if the forint continues to strengthen. Premier-in-
waiting Viktor Orban said yesterday his Fidesz party, which won
a constitutional majority in Sunday’s elections, expects the
2010 budget gap to exceed the limit of 3.8 percent of gross
domestic product approved by the International Monetary Fund.  
 “The Hungarian central bank will likely continue in
monetary easing going forward,” Danske Bank A/S analysts wrote
in a report to clients today. “Fidesz’s victory will lead to a
loosening of fiscal policy, which is rather more negative than
positive for Hungary.”  
 The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the two-week deposit rate
to 5.25 percent from 5.5 percent, the lowest since communism
ended 20 years ago. Policy makers have cut the key rate by 4.25
percentage points since July as a 6.3 percent economic
contraction last year blunted price pressures. The outlook for
growth and inflation calls for further rate cuts, the bank said.  
 “There is no reason whatsoever that justifies a stricter
monetary policy,” MNB President Andras Simor said. “A
strengthening forint obviously tightens monetary policy.”  
 Economic Growth  
 Hungary sacrificed economic growth and pledged to keep its
deficit within 3.8 percent of GDP this year to qualify for an
IMF-led bailout granted in 2008. Orban said yesterday the target
is unsustainable and that his country wants to renegotiate the
loan terms to boost economic growth.  
 The euro weakened against the dollar and European stocks
declined on concern a European Union-led aid package for Greece
won’t stop the deficit crisis from spreading. Emerging-market
stocks fell on concern Chinese measures to cool the property
market will curb the region’s economic recovery.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        