-- Univ of Washington's Emmert Is New NCAA President, Succeeding Myles Brand
-- Curtis Eichelberger
-- 2010-04-28T00:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/univ-of-washington-s-mark-emmert-new-ncaa-president-replacing-myles-brand.html

          
          
             University of Washington President
Mark A. Emmert was selected as the fifth president of the
National Collegiate Athletic Association, succeeding the late
Myles Brand.  
 “I have a lot of listening to do,” Emmert said at a news
conference today. “Then I want to start working to make sure we
are continuing the traditions of academic accountability.”  
 Emmert joins U.S. college sports’ governing body in a year
when many athletic departments will probably show declines in
ticket revenue, contributions and endowment income following the
worst U.S. recession since the 1930s, NCAA Interim President Jim
Isch said in an interview.  
 Emmert said he’ll take a hands-off approach when it comes
to helping athletic departments balance their budgets.  
 “The fundamental question is, ‘Can we help presidents of
colleges and universities manage these difficult issues?’” he
said. “Our job isn’t to tell them how to do their business, but
to help them be more successful in managing it.”  
 The 57-year-old career educator, with a doctorate degree in
public administration from Syracuse University, was the
chancellor of Louisiana State University before returning to his
home state to run the University of Washington in June 2004.  
 Brand was president from January 2003 until his death of
pancreatic cancer on Sept. 16. He made his mark by pushing
academic reforms that punished schools that didn’t graduate
their athletes. Emmert said he would continue Brand’s legacy
when he assumes the duties of president on Nov. 1.  
 TV Deal  
 Already in place when Emmert takes office will be a new
television agreement for the men’s basketball tournament. Isch,
the NCAA chief financial officer since 1988 who stepped in for
Brand, completed a 14-year, $10.8 billion agreement last week
with CBS Corp. and Time Warner Inc.’s Turner Broadcasting for
the television, Internet and wireless rights to an expanded 68-
team tournament.  
 The agreement pays the NCAA an average $740 million a year,
which helps NCAA member schools to balance their athletic
budgets.  
 Other issues facing the NCAA are the debate over moving to
a postseason football playoff system and calls for increased
opportunities for women in sports.  
 Emmert said a football playoff would be decided by the
presidents of individual institutions and not by the NCAA.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        