-- UPS Reports Strong Sales on Overseas Package Demand
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-04-27T20:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/ups-sales-beat-analysts-estimates-as-overseas-demand-for-packages-climbs.html

          
          
             United Parcel Service Inc., the
world’s largest package-delivery company, posted first-quarter
sales that beat analysts’ estimates on increased demand
overseas.  
 Revenue climbed 7.2 percent to $11.73 billion, exceeding
the $11.64 billion average of 14 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income gained 33 percent to $533 million,
Atlanta-based UPS said today. The company announced per-share
profit excluding one-time items of 71 cents on April 14.  
 UPS benefited from an 18 percent rise in international
packages, and U.S. domestic shipments climbed 0.4 percent, for
the first gain in more than two years. UPS and FedEx Corp. are
considered economic bellwethers because they deliver goods
ranging from industrial parts to medical supplies to consumer
electronics.  
 “Pay attention to the difference between UPS’s U.S. and
international performance, and the difference is big,” said Dan
Ortwerth, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis, who cut
his recommendation on UPS to “hold” from “buy” this month.
“I’m not fully convinced this is a sustainable U.S. economic
recovery yet. It’s getting harder to predict” domestic economic
growth prospects.  
 GDP increased 3.3 percent in the first quarter, the median
projection of economists in a Bloomberg survey ahead of an April
30 Commerce Department report.  
 Package Revenue Rises  
 UPS stopped giving quarterly earnings forecasts and will
provide that information only on an annual basis, said Andy
Dolny, vice president of investor relations. UPS switched to
quarterly guidance for 2008 and 2009 from its annual forecasts
because of uncertainty regarding the recession.  
 The company today reiterated its full-year outlook for
earnings of $3.05 to $3.30 a share.  
 UPS said this month that the per-share profit of 71 cents
for the first quarter excluded costs of $175 million related to
a restructuring of U.S. package operations, a loss on the sale
of a German unit and a tax expense. Net income a year earlier
was $401 million, or 40 cents.  
 UPS reported a 2.9 percent increase in average revenue per
item delivered, showing that rising demand is beginning to
restore its ability to increase prices.  
 “Base pricing was up in both air and ground, and we expect
that positive trend to continue in 2010, especially in air,”
Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn said on a conference call
with investors and analysts.  
 Volume for domestic next-day air packages, among the most
profitable offerings, slid 3.9 percent because of weak demand
for documents related to mortgages and other financial
transactions, executives said on the call.  
 Domestic volumes were helped by retail, health-care and
technology shipments, while manufacturing is “spotty” with
“gradual firming month to month,” Kuehn said in an interview.  
 UPS slid $2.30, or 3.4 percent, to $66.22 at 4:02 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading as the broader market
fell. The shares have gained 15 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        