-- Hutchison Telecom Investors Sould Accept Buyout Offer, Glass, Lewis Says
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-04-27T10:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/hutchison-telecom-investors-should-accept-buyout-proxy-advisory-firm-says.html

          
          
             Hutchison Telecommunications
International Ltd. investors should accept a buyout bid from the
company’s parent, according to advisory firm Glass, Lewis & Co.,
which called the offer “reasonable.”  
 The proposed takeover bid by billionaire Li Ka-shing’s
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. offers an “attractive” opportunity for
independent Hutchison Telecom shareholders to realize their
investment, Glass Lewis said in a report sent today. A
shareholder meeting to consider the offer is scheduled for May
12.  
 The recommendation follows endorsements by investment banks
including Credit Suisse Group AG and Macquarie Group Ltd. for
the HK$4.23 billion ($545 million) buyout. Accepting the HK$2.20
bid for each outstanding Hutchison Telecom share will spare
investors’ from being at risk to the carrier’s unprofitable
wireless operations in emerging Asian markets, Glass Lewis said.  
 “The company is now comprised of businesses that are cash-
flow negative and will be for some time,” the advisory firm
said. Hutchison Telecom operates mobile-phone units in
Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam.  
 Hutchison Telecom shares rose 0.5 percent to close at
HK$2.15 in Hong Kong trading, compared with a 1.5 percent
decline in the city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  
 Hutchison Whampoa, Li’s biggest company with operations in
ports, telecommunications, energy, property and retail, in
January said it would buy the Hutchison Telecom shares that it
doesn’t own at a price that was 33 percent more than the level
the stock traded at before the offer was tabled.  
 The Hong Kong-based parent owns 60.4 percent of Hutchison
Telecom’s outstanding stock, while Li controls an additional 5.5
percent stake, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The buyout bid is “a good deal,” Credit Suisse analyst
Cusson Leung said in January. The offer is an “attractive way
for shareholders to realize value,” Macquarie analyst Lisa Soh
wrote in a report last month.  
 Li, 81, is Hong Kong’s richest person with wealth of $21
billion, according to Forbes magazine.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        