-- Valero Energy Predicts Return to Profit After Posting Fourth Straight Loss
-- Jessica Resnick-Ault
-- 2010-04-27T20:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/valero-expects-to-return-to-profit-in-current-quarter-after-four-losses.html

          
          
             Valero Energy Corp., the largest
U.S. refiner, said it expects to return to profit in the current
quarter as fuel demand recovers from a slump that led to four
straight losses.  
 The first-quarter loss was $113 million, or 20 cents a
share, compared with net income of $309 million, or 60 cents, a
year earlier, San Antonio-based Valero said today in a
statement. The company said it should be profitable in the
second quarter as plants resume production after maintenance
projects and the gap between fuel prices and crude costs widens.  
 “Looking at the rest of the year, we are cautiously
optimistic about our business,” Chief Executive Officer Bill
Klesse said in the statement. “U.S. and global economic
indicators continue to trend higher, which should lead to
improved demand for our products.”  
 The recession cut demand for transportation fuels, which
remained below year-earlier levels in the first quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Use of diesel and other
distillate fuels dropped 7 percent to 3.7 million barrels a day.
Gasoline demand fell 1.5 percent.  
 “I think that the worst is over, but the question is when
we see the light at the end of the tunnel,” said Fadel Gheit,
an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York. He said Valero
probably won’t return to the level of profits seen during the
industry’s “golden age” of 2006 and 2007; rather, earnings
will be in line with the company’s 5- or 10-year average.  
 Plant Closings  
 Valero fell 22 cents to $19.90 as of the 4 p.m. close of
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock rose as
much as 2.3 percent this morning before declining along with all
but one other energy company in the Standard & Poor’s 500. It
has 9 buy ratings from analysts, 12 holds and 3 sells.  
 Valero slashed its dividend this year and closed two money-
losing refineries to help weather the industry slump. The
company put a third plant up for sale. Valero said it processed
about 254,000 fewer barrels of oil a day than a year earlier in
the first quarter, largely on the shutdown of its Aruba plant.  
 The first-quarter loss from plants Valero is keeping was 18
cents a share. Valero was predicted to lose 28 cents a share,
the average of 17 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. On
that basis, the average estimate for the current quarter is a
profit of 41 cents a share. Revenue advanced 47 percent to $19.6
billion, Valero said.  
 Seasonal increases in fuel use may not be sufficient this
year to widen profit margins, said Mark Gilman, an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in New York.  
 “There’s more than ample capacity, which is going to limit
any seasonal, knee-jerk behavior in the markets,” Gilman said.
“The gasoline inventory picture worsened in the first quarter
and has continued to worsen.”  
 An abundance of spare refining capacity in the U.S.,
Western Europe and Japan will probably constrain gains in profit
margins for the rest of this year, Valero said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Resnick-Ault in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        