-- Vanguard Reviews Link With Axa Rosenberg After Coding Error Found in Model
-- Christopher Condon
-- 2010-04-27T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/vanguard-reviews-link-with-axa-rosenberg-after-coding-error-found-in-model.html

          
          
             Vanguard Group Inc., the largest
U.S. provider of stock and bond funds, is deciding whether to
keep Axa Rosenberg Group as manager for about $1.5 billion of
its assets, after that firm said a “coding error” disrupted
its quantitative investment process.  
 “We’re taking a very hard look at that relationship, but
we’re still in fact-finding mode,” Rebecca Katz, a spokeswoman
for Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, said in a
telephone interview. Axa Rosenberg, a unit of Paris-based
insurer Axa SA, manages assets for three Vanguard funds.  
 Axa Rosenberg told clients in an April 15 letter that
founder Barr Rosenberg is taking a 30-day leave of absence and
director of research Thomas Mead will resign within a year,
after an error in the model used to select investments was found
in June last year. Senior executives failed to report the error,
which was corrected between September and November, in a
“complete and timely manner,” according to the letter.  
 The firm, which is based in Orinda, California, and manages
money mostly for institutional investors, has seen assets under
management shrink 58 percent to $62 billion from their peak in
2007 after underperforming rival money managers. The investment
committee for the public employees’ pension fund in Fresno,
California, which had $103 million managed by Axa Rosenberg,
fired the firm after receiving the letter.  
 A “significant majority of our clients are continuing
their relationship with Axa Rosenberg,” Chief Executive Officer
Stephane Prunet said in an e-mailed response to questions.  
 The firm handles $1 billion of Vanguard’s $9.28 billion
Explorer Fund, about $525 million of its U.S. Value Fund and
about $34 million of its $70.6 million Market Neutral Fund.  
 Risk Controls  
 Dan Newhall, a portfolio review executive at Vanguard,
declined to comment on specific information that Axa Rosenberg
had provided about the coding error or its handling.  
 “We’re interacting with them and clearly we want to
completely understand all the circumstances and decisions
they’ve been making,” he said.  
 Axa Rosenberg said it’s trying to establish whether the
error, which affected one of three sets of risk controls that
influence the selection of securities, hurt performance.  
 “Determining whether or not the error had any significant
impact on portfolio performance is highly complex and may not be
feasible to establish with precision,” Prunet said in the
letter. The company is conducting an investigation with external
experts, he said.  
 Lagging Behind  
 Axa Rosenberg’s four largest products for institutional
investors, managing $45.6 billion as of Dec. 31, each performed
below their average peers in the one- and three-year periods
ended March 31, according to eVestment Alliance, a research firm
based in Marietta, Georgia.  
 The Axa Rosenberg U.S. Broad Market Equity strategy, the
company’s largest, returned 41 percent in the past year,
trailing 83 percent of rival products. It has rebounded in the
first quarter of 2010, returning 6.6 percent and beating 83
percent of competitors.  
 Quant funds typically attempt to predict share prices by
assuming that price movements will revert to a mean after
deviating from historical behavior, according to Eric Petroff,
director of research at Wurts & Associates, a Seattle-based firm
that advises institutions on $30 billion in investments.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        