-- Vietnam Keeps Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged at 8% as Inflation Slows
-- Diep Ngoc Pham
-- 2010-04-27T12:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/vietnam-keeps-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-at-8-as-inflation-slows.html

          
          
             Vietnam’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a fifth month after
inflation slowed.  
 The State Bank of Vietnam held the key interest rate at 8
percent, according to a statement on its Web site today.
Policy makers will also keep the refinancing rate at 8 percent
and maintain the discount rate at 6 percent, according to the
central bank.  
 Vietnam’s inflation slowed this month for the first time
since August as food prices eased. The central bank’s decision
today comes after Moody’s Investors Service said last month that
Vietnam had yet to quell inflationary expectations. Fitch
Ratings cited the risk of a build-up in price pressures when it
put the country’s debt rating on negative watch March 12.  
 “The risk for inflation to quicken is still there, so it
is better for the central bank to keep the key rate unchanged
rather than lowering it to boost production,” said Nguyen Tan
Thang, head of fixed-income research at Ho Chi Minh City
Securities Corp.  
 Consumer prices climbed 9.23 percent in April from a year
earlier, down from 9.46 percent in March, according to the
Hanoi-based General Statistics Office.  
 To boost growth, Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung
asked state-owned banks to lower lending rates to between 12
percent and 13 percent, Thoi Bao Ngan Hang newspaper reported on
April 21.  
 The country’s trade deficit widened 8 percent to $1.25
billion in April from March, as an expanding economy drove an
increase in import costs.  
 Vietnam’s government expects the country’s economy to grow
6.5 percent this year after a 5.3 percent gain last year. The
central bank capped this year’s credit growth at 25 percent,
down from almost 38 percent last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Van Nguyen in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 vnguyen23@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        