-- Viniar's Prepared Testimony at Goldman Sachs Congressional Hearing: Text
-- 
-- 2010-04-27T12:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/viniar-s-prepared-testimony-at-goldman-sachs-congressional-hearing-text.html

          
          
             
(The following is a reformatted version of a document issued by
Goldman Sachs and received via electronic mail. The document was
confirmed by the sender.)  
 Testimony by David A. Viniar to the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations  
 Chairman Levin, Ranking Member Coburn and Members of the
Committee:  
 My name is David Viniar. I have been Chief Financial Officer of
Goldman Sachs since 1999 and Head of the Operations, Technology,
Finance and Services Division since 2002. I am responsible for
risk management, financial control and reporting, and financing
our business, among other duties.  
 I appreciate the opportunity to appear before you and contribute
to the Subcommittee’s work on understanding some of the causes
of the financial crisis. I’d like to focus my comments on our
risk philosophy and our approach to risk management, which Craig
Broderick, the firm’s Chief Risk Officer, will also be
addressing in some detail.  
 As a global investment bank and financial intermediary, Goldman
Sachs integrates advice, financing, market?making, co?investing
and asset management with its risk management capabilities to
serve a broad range of largely institutional clients.
In doing so, we often take on principal risk to help clients
achieve their objectives by, for example, facilitating
accelerated and block offerings, providing structured solutions
to financial problems, or extending credit to support advisory
and underwriting business. We routinely evaluate, price and
distribute risk across the spectrum according to the specific
risk appetites of our institutional clients.  
 Based on the nature of markets, the roles we play, and our
willingness often to assume risk so that we can complete a
client’s transaction, we know that we will sometimes incur
losses - but as a core part of our business model, we
pro?actively manage our risk to minimize these
losses.  
 When we commit capital to buy or sell financial instruments,
extend credit, or invest alongside our clients, we accumulate
both long and short positions ? in the form of assets and
liabilities and contingent exposures ? that have implications
for our liquidity, credit and market risks.  
 As a financial institution, we are concerned first and foremost
with ensuring strong liquidity. We do so by holding a
substantial pre?funded pool of highly liquid assets, and through
disciplined asset?liability management.  
 As a financial market intermediary, we take credit and market
risks with a view to distributing them across the capital
markets to investors and counterparties able and willing to
assume them, while earning fees or spreads for our financing or
intermediation service. We try to distribute these risk
exposures in a reasonable period.  
 Over time, however, we naturally accumulate an “inventory” of
long and short positions. The composition and net long or short
bias of this inventory reflects the accumulation of customer
trades and our judgments about supply and demand or market
direction. At any given time, we may have long or short
exposures to thousands of different instruments. This does not
mean that we know ? or even think ? that prices will fall every
time we sell or are short, or rise when we buy or are long. We
are executing transactions and assuming the risks in connection
with our role of providing liquidity to the markets.  
 Taking all these considerations into account, we deploy a range
of risk management capabilities to price the risks of each
transaction appropriately, keep the firm’s overall exposures
within carefully prescribed risk limits, and establish
off?setting positions (hedges) or sell and buy positions as
necessary to control overall exposure to adverse developments.
Most fundamentally, our approach is to understand the risks we
are taking, analyze and quantify them, and keep a firm grip on
their current market value. We carry virtually our entire
inventory of financial instruments at fair market value, with
changes reflected in our daily P&L.  
 This enables us to make informed decisions in real time about
the risks we’re taking and respond nimbly to opportunities or
threats. Such daily marking of our positions was a key
reason we decided to start reducing our mortgage risk relatively
early as market conditions were deteriorating at the end of
2006.  
 I’d like to give you a sense for how we managed our risk during
the period leading up to the crisis.  
 Through the end of 2006, we were generally long in exposure to
residential mortgages and mortgage?related products. While this
long position was the direct result of our marketmaking
activities, it was within our risk limits and we were
comfortable holding it. That December, however, we began to
experience a pattern of daily losses in our mortgage?related
products P&L as we marked down the value of our mortgage?related
inventory to reflect lower market prices. P&L can itself be a
very valuable risk metric, and I personally read it every day.
I called a meeting to discuss the situation, bringing together
key people involved in running the mortgage business, including
senior business leaders and traders from the mortgage desk, as
well as senior staff and analysts from our independent control
and risk groups. We went through our positions and debated views
on the mortgage market in considerable detail. While we came to
no definitive conclusion about how the overall market would
develop in the future, we became collectively concerned about
the higher volatility and recent price declines in our sub?prime
mortgage?related positions.  
 As a result, we decided to attempt to reduce our exposure to
these positions. We wanted to get “closer to home” - that is,
reduce our overall exposure to the residential housing
market consistent with our risk protocols. We proceeded to sell
certain positions outright and hedge our long positions in an
attempt to achieve this result. We always prefer to sell
outright in order to avoid incurring basis risk, but selective
market illiquidity, together with our continuing obligation to
make markets for our clients, meant this was not always a
feasible alternative.  
 As always, the clients who bought our long positions or other
similar positions had a view that they were attractive positions
to purchase at the price they were offered. As with our
own views, their views sometimes proved to be correct and
sometimes incorrect.  
 We continued to reduce our positions in these products over the
course of 2007. We were generally successful in achieving the
objective of reducing this exposure to the extent
that, on occasion, our portfolio “traded short.” When that
happened, even if these short positions were profitable, given
the ongoing high volatility and uncertainty in the market, we
tended to attempt to then reduce these short positions to again
get closer to home. This situation reversed itself in 2008,
however, when the portfolio tended to “trade long” and, as a
result, despite the fact that our franchise enabled the firm to
be profitable overall, we lost money on residential
mortgage?related products in that year.  
 While the tremendous volatility in the mortgage market caused
periodic large losses on long positions and large gains on
offsetting short positions, the net of which could have
appeared to be a substantial gain or loss on any day, in
aggregate, these positions had a comparatively small effect on
our net revenues. In 2007, net revenues from residential
mortgage?related products were less than $500 million,
approximately 1% of Goldman Sachs’s overall net revenues; and in
2007 and 2008 combined, our net revenues in this area were
actually negative.  
 For Goldman Sachs, weathering the mortgage market meltdown had
nothing to do with prescience or “betting” on - or against -
anything. More mundanely, it had everything to do
with systematically marking our positions to market, paying
attention to what those marks were telling us, and maintaining a
disciplined approach to risk management, which we believe
served the firm, our clients, and our shareholders well during
this extraordinarily challenging period.  
 Thank you and I am happy to take your questions.  
 (bjh) NY  
 #<480199.660640.1.1.51.33055.76>#
  
          
          


  


        