-- Volkswagen Is in Talks With SB LiMotive, LG Chem on Electric-Car Batteries
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-04-27T11:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/volkswagen-is-in-talks-with-sb-limotive-lg-chem-on-electric-car-batteries.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG said it’s in talks
with a Robert Bosch GmbH and Samsung SDI Co. venture and LG Chem
Ltd. as Europe’s biggest carmaker is broadening the search for
suppliers of electric-car batteries.  
 “We want to keep our options open and see how the
different battery systems are developing,” Ulrich Hackenberg,
head of Volkswagen brand development, said in an interview. He
declined to specify when an accord with SB LiMotive Co. and LG
Chem, the biggest South Korean chemical maker, will be signed.  
 “Mass produced battery cells won’t be deliverable until
about one or two years from now,” Hackenberg said.  
 Volkswagen is cooperating with “several” manufacturers of
rechargeable batteries including BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker
backed by billionaire Warren Buffett; Japan-based Sanyo Electric
Co.; and Toshiba Corp., Hackenberg said, noting the Japanese
suppliers “are still a step ahead” of BYD.  
 Volkswagen, based in Wolfsburg, Germany, wants to start
building battery-powered cars in China as soon as 2013 and said
yesterday it will spend another 1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion)
on models and two new facilities in China, increasing total
investments in the world’s biggest auto market to 6 billion
euros.  
 The carmaker may extend its cooperation on battery
development with BYD “in the foreseeable future,” Hackenberg
said, adding that the companies are having “intense exchanges”
based on VW’s testing of BYD battery prototypes.  
 Daimler AG’s cooperation with Shenzhen-based BYD poses “no
danger” to Volkswagen’s leading position in China, Hackenberg
said. The world’s second-biggest maker of luxury vehicles said
last month it will develop an electric car with BYD for Chinese
customers and aims to launch the model by 2013.  
 “We don’t need such a partnership,” Hackenberg said.
“Daimler’s cooperation with BYD implies no danger for our China
business.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        