-- Western Union Rises the Most in a Year as Profit Meets Analysts' Estimates
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-04-27T15:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/western-union-profit-falls-7-as-expenses-rise-ersek-to-take-over-as-ceo.html

          
          
             Western Union Co., the world’s
biggest money-transfer business, jumped as much as 9.3 percent,
the most in more than a year, after the company said
transactions rose in the first quarter and earnings met
analysts’ estimates.  
 Net income declined to $207.9 million, or 30 cents a
diluted share, from $223.9 million, or 32 cents, in the same
period a year earlier, the company said today in a statement.
The average estimate of 27 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
for 30 cents profit.  
 Chief Executive Officer Christina Gold, 62, is retiring and
will be replaced by Chief Operating Officer Hikmet Ersek, 49, on
Sept. 1, Englewood, Colorado-based Western Union said in the
statement.  
 “We’ve seen an improvement across the globe with some
challenges in the Middle East, while one of our stars has been
the Americas region,” Gold said in an interview. “We’re
pleased with both revenue and transactions, and all trends are
signaling that we’re gaining market share.”  
 Total revenue for the quarter climbed 2.6 percent to $1.23
billion compared with the same period a year earlier. Expenses
increased 6.6 percent to $916.9 million, according to the
statement.  
 Western Union rose 8.2 percent to $19.37 at 10:43 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares lost 5
percent this year through yesterday.  
 Transactions Increase  
 Western Union processed 49.6 million consumer transactions
in the first quarter, an 8.1 percent increase compared with a
year earlier, the company said. The consumer segment represented
84 percent of revenue.  
 “Trends in transaction growth showed considerable
improvement, driven mostly by a pick-up in U.S. domestic and
outbound, Mexico, and continued strength in Asia and parts of
Europe,” Darrin Peller, an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in
New York, said in a note to investors.  
 Western Union forecast in February little or no revenue
growth for 2010 as high unemployment rates in key markets put
pressure on money transfers. The company reaffirmed its outlook
in the statement.  
 Gold has expanded operations outside the U.S. and built new
product lines such as mobile-money transfer to compensate for a
slump in domestic sales. A 9.7 percent U.S. jobless rate has
limited the ability of migrant workers to send money home.  
 Ersek joined Western Union in 1999 and became COO in
January after serving as executive vice president and managing
director for Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Asia
Pacific region. He holds a degree in economics and business
administration from the University of Economics in Vienna.  
 “We suspect his global expertise and reputation as an
operator will be received well,” Peller wrote about Ersek’s
appointment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        