-- West Ham Ready to Sell Every Player Except Scott Parker: Soccer Roundup
-- Peter-Joseph Hegarty
-- 2010-04-27T09:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/west-ham-ready-to-sell-every-player-except-scott-parker-soccer-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  
 West Ham Clearout  
 West Ham is willing to sell any player except captain Scott
Parker in a “radical” off-season shake-up, the Daily Mirror
reported.  
 Co-owner David Sullivan pledged to use all the money raised
from player sales to strengthen the squad after the Hammers
virtually assured their survival in the Premier League.  
 “Other than Scott Parker, there is not a player we
wouldn’t sell if it was the right bid,” Sullivan was cited as
saying.  
 Avram Grant is a “shock” contender for the manager’s job
at West Ham as Gianfranco Zola prepares to quit, according to
the Mirror.  
 Hart Return?  
 Manchester City will try to take goalkeeper Joe Hart back
from his loan at Birmingham in a move that will enrage City’s
Premier League rivals, the Daily Mail reported.  
 City needs to replace Shay Given, ruled out with a shoulder
injury, as the team battles for the fourth Champions League
spot.  
 Pearson May Quit  
 Adam Pearson may quit as Hull chairman as the club faces
relegation from the Premier League, the Times said.  
 Pearson is disillusioned with the club’s inability to
progress and cope with “an impending financial meltdown,” the
paper added.  
 Hull will ask its players to take a 40 percent pay cut in
an effort to avoid going into administration, the Mirror said.  
 Rooney’s Title Bid  
 Injured striker Wayne Rooney is desperate to play in
Manchester United’s game at Sunderland on May 2 as the title
race with Chelsea enters the final two games, the Mail reported  
 United is a point behind the Blues and has an inferior goal
difference.  
 Juve Mission  
 Juventus President Jean-Claude Blanc may fly to Liverpool
this week to try to convince Rafael Benitez to accept the offer
of a four-year contract worth 16 million pounds ($24.5 million),
the Mail reported.  
 Robbie May Return  
 Wolves may try to re-sign striker Robbie Keane now that the
club is safe from relegation, the Sun reported.  
 Keane is currently on loan at Celtic from Tottenham and has
been named player of the season at the Glasgow club with 13
goals in 15 games, the newspaper said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        