-- Wheat Rises as Investors Buy Contracts to Unwind Bets on Weakening Prices
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-04-27T19:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/wheat-rises-as-investors-buy-contracts-to-unwind-bets-on-weakening-prices.html

          
          
             Wheat rose for the first time in
three sessions on speculation that investors are buying back
contracts to unwind bets that prices will fall, after futures in
Chicago yesterday plunged the most in a week.  
 The most-active contract slipped 3.5 percent yesterday on
the Chicago Board of Trade, the most since April 19, as
prospects for the U.S. crop improved because of favorable
weather. Hedge funds and other large speculators, including
index funds, have reduced their net-short positions in CBOT
wheat futures for three straight weeks through April 20,
government data show.  
 “As much as wheat was pushed down yesterday, maybe we
could see a technical bounce,” said Tom Leffler, owner of
Leffler Commodities LLC in Augusta, Kansas. “It’s short-
covering. That’s the biggest supportive factor we have out there
right now.”  
 Wheat futures for July delivery rose 2.5 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $4.905 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
most-active contract is down 9.4 percent this year because of
reduced demand for U.S. grain and rising global stockpiles.  
 Short positions, or bets prices will fall, exceeded longs
by 44,406 wheat contracts as of April 20, down from 56,716 on
March 30, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  
 The price earlier fell as much as 0.9 percent after the
Department of Agriculture said in a report yesterday that 69
percent of the U.S. winter crop was in good or excellent
condition, up from 45 percent at the same time a year earlier.
About 71 percent of the crop in Kansas, the biggest grower of
winter varieties, earned top ratings, the government said.  
 Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 Tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        