-- Ukraine's Naftogaz to Make Profit in 2011 on Russia Cuts, Yanukovych Says
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-04-27T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/yanukovych-says-state-energy-company-naftogaz-will-be-profitable-in-2011.html

          
          
             Ukraine’s state energy company NAK
Naftogaz Ukrainy, which has been forced to reschedule some of
its debts, will be profitable next year after Russia agreed to
reduce natural gas prices, President Viktor Yanukovych said.  
 “We are going to see Naftogaz as a profitable company and
it will start paying its debt to creditors,” said Yanukovych in
an interview in Strasbourg yesterday. “We see the possibility
to develop such a mechanism that will allow us to balance up the
situation with Naftogaz by the end of the year.”  
 Kiev-based Naftogaz was forced to reschedule payments on
$500 million of loan participation notes and $1.15 billion of
outstanding loans last year after running out of cash as prices
of Russian imported gas jumped. Russia, which supplies almost 50
percent of Ukraine’s energy needs, agreed on April 21 to cut the
price by 30 percent this year.  
 In return, Ukraine allowed Russia to keep its Black Sea
Fleet at the Ukrainian port of Sevastopol until 2042, with a
possible five-year extension. The fleet is currently subject to
a lease that expires in 2017. Ukraine will also increase the
amount of gas imports.  
 “The gas price discount that we will have now for the next
10 years allows us to reform the industry, domestic prices and
eventually move to European prices for gas,” Yanukovych said.
“This will happen as a result of the reform of the energy
sector. We have to take the same road the most developed
countries of the world have taken.”  
 Ratified  
 Lawmakers in Moscow and Kiev ratified the agreement
yesterday, less than a week after it was first announced. The
Ukrainian opposition threw eggs and smoke bombs to protest the
treaty, saying the constitution forbids the stationing of
foreign troops on Ukrainian territory. In Russia’s State Duma,
the nationalist party of Vladimir Zhirinovsky abstained from the
vote.  
 Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has embraced the
government of Yanukovych, pledging increased cooperation in
aviation and nuclear power following the gas-for-naval base
agreement. Yanukovych, who took office two months ago, has vowed
to improve relations with Russia after they deteriorated under
his pro-western predecessor Viktor Yushchenko.  
 Keeping the Black Sea Fleet in Crimea is more expensive
than any military base in the world, Putin said during a visit
to Kiev on April 26. The gas price discount, achieved by
canceling customs duties, may cost Russia as much as $45 billion
over 10 years, he said.  
 “This isn’t just a question of money of course,” Putin
said. “This is also an issue of cooperation with Ukraine.”  
 Ukraine, a nation of 46 million people, consumes around 55
billion cubic meters of gas a year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in Strasbourg at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        