-- Euro Trades Below $1.32 for First Time Since April 2009 Amid Debt Concern
-- Ben Levisohn
-- 2010-04-27T21:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/yen-dollar-rise-as-greece-s-debt-crisis-deters-demand-for-riskier-assets.html

          
          
             The euro dropped below $1.32 for
the first time since April 2009 after Standard & Poor’s lowered
Greece’s debt to junk and cut the rating of Portugal.  
 The yen and greenback rallied versus most of their major
counterparts including the South African rand and Australian
dollar on concern European governments are struggling to contain
the debt crisis, deterring risk demand for higher-yielding
assets. The euro fell the most against the dollar since June
2009 as the cost of protection on Greece’s and Portugal’s
sovereign bonds rose to record levels.  
 “There’s been a pretty catastrophic breakdown in
peripheral Europe,” said Richard Franulovich, a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “It’s just a
matter of time before we break $1.30 and go to $1.25.”  
 The euro slipped 1.6 percent to $1.3175 at 5 p.m. in New
York, from $1.3383 yesterday, after trading as low as $1.3166.
The euro lost as much as 2.5 percent to 122.57 yen in the
biggest intraday drop since Feb. 4, before trading at 122.88
yen, compared with 125.73 yesterday. The dollar decreased 0.7
percent to 93.26 yen.  
 South Africa’s rand lost 1.9 percent to 7.4837 per dollar
and Australia’s currency dropped 2 percent to 85.38 yen on
speculation investors will reduce carry trades, in which they
buy higher-yielding assets with amounts borrowed in nations with
low interest rates. The benchmark borrowing costs of 0.1 percent
in Japan and zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S. have made the
dollar and yen popular for funding such transactions.  
 S&P lowered its long- and short-term sovereign credit
ratings on Greece to BB+ and B, respectively, from BBB+ and A-2.
The outlook is negative.  
 Portugal’s Rating  
 Portugal’s long-term local and foreign currency sovereign
issuer credit ratings were cut today from A+ to A- at S&P, which
cited “fiscal and economic structural” weakness.  
 “The downgrade was more aggressive than expected,” said
Win Thin, a senior currency strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York, referring to the cut in Portugal’s
debt rating. “If Portugal comes under attack, you get to Spain
pretty quickly.”  
 Credit-default swaps on Greece’s government bonds climbed
111 basis points, or 1.11 percentage points, to 821, according
to CMA DataVision. Those on Portugal’s debt rose 54 basis points
to 365. Yields on Greece’s two-year notes surged above 18
percent, the highest level since at least 1998.  
 Euro-region countries are firming up an aid package for
Greece “to send a clear signal that we won’t let Greece go
under,” Handelsblatt reported Germany’s Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble as saying in an interview.  
 Germany’s View  
 Restructuring of Greek debt is not a topic in talks between
Greece, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central
Bank and the European Union and isn’t supported by any office
holder in the German government, Schaeuble was cited as saying
in an article in tomorrow’s edition.  
 A draft German law laying out emergency financial help for
Greece asks that German loans up to a maximum of 8.4 billion
euros ($11.1 billion) be made available to uphold the stability
of the European currency, with quarterly reports to parliament
on the “proper use” of the aid by Greece.  
 “This is no longer a problem about Greece or Portugal, but
a problem with the euro system,” Eric Fine, a fund manager in
New York at Van Eck Global. “My concern is the risk of
coordination failure. Policy makers need to get ahead of the
curve before this turns into a banking-system issue.”  
 U.S. Sentiment  
 The dollar briefly pared its drop against the yen as the
New York-based Conference Board’s sentiment index rose to 57.9
in April from a revised 52.3 in the previous month. The median
forecast of 78 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
increase to 53.5 from a previously reported 52.5.  
 “These were fantastic numbers,” said Andrew Busch, a
global currency strategist at Bank of Montreal in Chicago. “The
Fed understands that the economy is recovering.”  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed a 64 percent
chance the Federal Reserve will raise its benchmark rate by at
least a quarter-percentage point by its December meeting,
compared with 65 percent odds a week ago. The central bank will
hold steady its target for overnight lending tomorrow, all of
the 102 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted.  
 Canada’s dollar dropped the most in almost six months
versus the greenback as crude oil, the nation’s largest export,
fell to the lowest level in more than a week. The loonie fell as
much as 1.7 percent, the most since Oct. 30, before trading
C$1.0177 per U.S. dollar.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Levisohn in New York at 
 blevisohn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photograph shows a man holding euro notes of various denominations for a photograph in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
