-- Yen Gains, Asian Shares Fall on Concern Over Greek Bailout, China Economy
-- Rocky Swift
-- 2010-04-27T05:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/yen-gains-asian-shares-fall-on-concern-over-greek-bailout-china-economy.html

          
          
              Asian stocks declined and the yen
rose against 13 of 16 major counterparts as concern about
Greece’s bailout plan and China’s efforts to cool its economy
drove investors away from higher-yielding assets.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.2 percent to 126.99,
with China’s stock benchmark sliding to a six-month low at 2:32
p.m. in Tokyo. The South Korean won weakened to a one-week low
after the government said recent gains were “excessive.” Gold
advanced to near the highest level in more than a week as
investors sought safer assets, and oil fell for a second day.  
 Investor sentiment turned bearish after German Chancellor
Angela Merkel said she won’t release funds for Greece until the
nation has a “sustainable” plan to reduce its deficit. China
Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest developer, said first-quarter
profit plunged from the previous three months amid government
measures to cool the economy.  
 “Concerns about potential delays in financial aid for
Greece as well as further monetary tightening in China continue
to dampen investor sentiment,’ said Michiya Tomita, a Hong
Kong-based fund manager for Mitsubishi UFJ Management Co.,
which holds $65 billion in assets.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index retreated after yesterday’s 1.6
percent jump yesterday, its biggest gain since March 17. Stocks
in the index trade at 16.1 times estimated earnings, compared
with 15.2 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. S&P 500 futures were little
changed after the benchmark fell 0.4 percent in regular trading.  
 Valuations ‘Expensive’  
 “Valuations are still expensive,” Tomita said. “We need
to see more earnings improvement.”  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index slumped 2.2 percent and is
set for the lowest close since Oct. 12. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index dropped 1 percent.  
 The won slid 0.6 percent to 1,110.50 per dollar,
retreating from near a 19-month high of 1,102.85 reached
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,114.45, the weakest level since April 20.  
 The government will take measures to counter herd behavior
in the currency market, Kim Ik Joo, director-general at the
Ministry of Strategy and Finance, said by phone today. Policy
makers can try to influence exchange rates by buying or selling
currencies.  
 Japan’s currency traded at 125.71 against the euro in Tokyo
trading from 125.73 in New York yesterday. The euro was at
$1.338 per dollar from $1.3383 yesterday.  
 There will be no decision on aid for Greece until the
International Monetary Fund works out a plan of cuts with the
government in Athens, Merkel told reporters yesterday in Berlin.
Germany will assist Greece only after it agrees to take
“tough” measures for the next several years, she said.  
 Germany, Greece  
 “There is concern that the German government may delay the
extension of financial aid for Greece,” said Akane Vallery
Uchida, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in Tokyo. “This led to resumed selling of the euro.”  
 Elpida Memory Inc., Japan’s biggest maker of computer
memory, lost 2.1 percent to 2,026 yen, while Hynix Semiconductor
Inc. slumped 3.3 percent to 27,550 won in Seoul. The spot price
for the benchmark dynamic random access memory chip sank 0.7
percent yesterday to the lowest level since March 22, according
to Dramexchange Technology Inc.  
 CSL Ltd., the world’s second-biggest maker of treatments
made from blood, fell 4.3 percent to A$32.49 after Credit Suisse
AG cut the stock to “neutral” from “outperform,” citing the
impact from U.S. health-care reforms. CSL tumbled 7.3 percent on
April 23 when it last traded, after larger rival Baxter
International Inc. cut its 2010 earnings forecast.  
 China Developer  
 China Vanke lost 1.3 percent to 7.70 yuan. The Shenzhen-
based developer yesterday said first-quarter profit reached 1.13
billion yuan ($165.5 million), 53 percent lower from the three
months ended Dec. 31.  
 Concerns that government measures to cool the property
market would hurt home demand have dragged Vanke’s shares 29
percent lower this year. China has ordered higher mortgage rates
and larger down-payment ratios since property prices jumped 11.7
percent in March, the most since data began in 2005.  
 PetroChina Co. and Jiangxi Copper Co., the nation’s biggest
oil and copper producers, dropped more than 1.4 percent as
prices of crude and the metal declined. Inpex Corp., Japan’s
largest oil explorer, sank 1.7 percent to 687,000 yen.  
 Oil fell for a second day, dropping below $84 a barrel in
New York, as the dollar gained and analysts forecast that U.S.
crude supplies increased, signaling that fuel demand in the
world’s biggest energy user may be slow to recover.  
 Commodities Fall  
 Oil dropped 1.1 percent yesterday as the greenback advanced
on concern the Greek bailout plan faces hurdles. A stronger
dollar limits investor need for commodities to hedge against
inflation. U.S. crude inventories probably rose 1 million
barrels last week, according to analysts surveyed before an
Energy Department report tomorrow.  
 Copper for three-month delivery dropped 1 percent to $7,735
per metric ton, declining for the first time in three days.  
 The cost of protecting Asia-Pacific bonds from non-payment
increased, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  
 The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 3.5 basis points to
87 basis points in Sydney, according to ICAP Plc prices. The
risk benchmark is heading for the highest since March 22, when
it was 91.5 basis points, according to CMA DataVision prices.  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan increased 1 basis point to 99 basis
points in Singapore, Barclays Plc prices show. That index is on
track for the highest since April 22, according to CMA
DataVision.  
 The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 1 basis point to 95
in Tokyo, according to Morgan Stanley.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
Rocky Swift in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian using his mobile phone walks past an electronic stock board outside a securities firm in Tokyo, on April 26, 2010. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
