-- Yuan Appreciation Will Fail to Sink U.S. Treasuries, Bank of Tokyo Says
-- Joji Mochida
-- 2010-04-27T02:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-27/yuan-appreciation-will-fail-to-sink-u-s-treasuries-bank-of-tokyo-says.html

          
          
             Treasuries will remain supported
even if China allows the yuan to strengthen as U.S. debt remains
attractive due to its yields and a lack of alternative
investments, said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  
 U.S. government debt may initially decline on yuan gains as
China will accumulate fewer dollar reserves by selling its
currency, said Minori Uchida, a senior analyst at the unit of
Japan’s largest banking group in Tokyo. Treasuries would then
rebound as rising yields lured investors, he said.  
 “Investors may soon buy back Treasuries after a temporary
drop,” Uchida said in an interview with Bloomberg on April 23.
Buyers will return as “no other assets have a triple A rating
and high liquidity like U.S. Treasuries.”  
 Treasuries remain the investment of choice for debt buyers
as concern about Greece’s budget deficit damps the attraction of
alternatives such as European bonds, he said.  
 At a time when concern is rising about sovereign debt,
including some euro-area bonds and U.K. gilts, “would China
shift from Treasuries to other sovereigns as if to willingly
invite trouble?” he said.  
 China remained the biggest foreign holder of U.S.
government debt in February with $877.5 billion, followed by
Japan with $768.5 billion, according to figures released by the
Treasury Department. Still, China has reduced its holdings from
a record 939.9 billion in July 2009.  
 Decade-Long Peg  
 Treasuries dropped in July 1995, sending yields up 36 basis
points, when China ended the yuan’s decade-long peg to the
dollar, and said it would allow the currency to fluctuate
against a basket of counterparts.  
 Even if China incurs a foreign-exchange loss on its
Treasury holdings due to a stronger yuan, it would be able to
offset the loss with higher interest payments, Uchida said.  
 The average coupon for two-, five- and 10-year Treasuries
in the past 10 years is nearly 4 percent, Uchida said. China
will likely limit the yuan’s annual gain against the dollar to
about 3 percent, less than average Treasury yields, he said.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards were 6.6074 per
dollar as of 10:51 a.m. in Tokyo, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts show traders expect the currency will
strengthen 3.3 percent from the current spot rate of 6.8269.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Joji Mochida in Tokyo at 
 jmochida@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Fan Gang, a former People’s Bank of China adviser, talked yesterday with Bloomberg's Susan Li in Hong Kong about China's measures to cool property prices and the nation's currency policy.
     Fan said James Chanos is overly pessimistic about China’s property market because the hedge fund manager underestimates government efforts to avoid a bubble. Chanos said earlier this month that China is on a "treadmill to hell" because it’s hooked on property development for driving growth. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
