-- Arsenal Beats Fulham to Move Atop Premier League; Chelsea, Everton Tie 1-1
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-12-04T17:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/arsenal-beats-fulham-to-move-into-first-place-in-english-premier-league.html
Arsenal beat Fulham 2-1 to move past
Manchester United atop English soccer’s Premier League, while
Chelsea missed a chance to take the league lead after drawing 1-
1 with Everton.  Samir Nasri  scored both goals as Arsenal went one point
ahead of United, whose game at Blackpool was postponed by a
frozen pitch.  Jermaine Beckford ’s late goal gave Everton the tie
at Chelsea, which now trails Arsenal by two points.  Manchester City strengthened its hold on fourth place with
a 1-0 win over Bolton, Birmingham tied 1-1 with Tottenham,
Blackburn beat Wolverhampton 3-0 and Wigan drew 2-2 with Stoke.  Arsenal ended a two-game losing run at the Emirates Stadium
in north London to jump to the head of the standings.  Nasri opened the scoring in the 14th minute when he cut
past two Fulham defenders in the area and fired a shot into the
top corner. Fulham tied the game in the 30th minute when a clash
of heads between Arsenal’s  Sebastien Squillaci  and Laurent
Koscielny, who was taken off the field on a stretcher, allowed
Diomansy Kamara to get free and score.  Kamara had a chance to put the visitors in front just
before halftime when he got behind the Arsenal defense only to
be denied by goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski.  A great individual effort from Nasri then put the Gunners
in front with 15 minutes remaining. Nasri took a pass from  Robin van Persie  at the edge of the area, ran through a group of
defenders, pushed the ball around goalkeeper  Mark Schwarzer ,
then cut a shot back into the net from an angle.  Midseason Slump  Fulham pushed toward the tying goal, with Fabianski forced
into a diving save against  Zoltan Gera  in the 88th minute. The
loss extends Fulham’s away winless league run to 26 games.  Everton’s comeback at Chelsea continued the Blues’
midseason slump and stopped them taking back the top spot.  Didier Drogba  gave Chelsea, which has won just one of its
past six matches, the lead in the 42nd minute with a penalty
after Everton goalkeeper  Tim Howard  took  Nicolas Anelka  down.  The Toffees earned the draw with four minutes remaining as
Beckford, who earlier replaced  Louis Saha , headed in a cross
from close range.  Manchester City moved one point behind Chelsea with its
home win over Birmingham.  Carlos Tevez  scored in the fourth
minute for City, which finished with 10 men after Aleksandar
Kolarov received a second yellow card 11 minutes from the end.  David Dunn ,  Brett Emerton  and  Ryan Nelsen  scored the goals
as Blackburn rebounded from last week’s 7-1 loss to Manchester
United with a win that dropped Wolves into last place behind
West Ham on goal difference.  Tom Cleverle’s goal five minutes before halftime gave Wigan
the home draw with Stoke. Craig Gardner’s scored in the 81st
minute to give Birmingham the tie with Tottenham, which fell
three points behind Manchester City in the battle for fourth
place and the final spot in Europe’s Champions League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  