-- Asian Stocks Rise as U.S. Housing Data, ECB Debt Program Boost Growth Hope
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-04T00:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/asian-stocks-rise-this-week-on-u-s-economic-reports-ireland.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week,
reversing three consecutive weeks of declines, after U.S.
economic reports and eased concern over Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis added to confidence in the global economic recovery.  Honda Motor Co. , the Japanese carmaker which receives 80
percent of its sales abroad, gained 2.6 percent in Tokyo. James
Hardie Industries SE, the biggest seller of home siding in the
U.S., soared 16 percent in Sydney as the National Association of
Realtors said purchases of existing homes in the U.S.
unexpectedly jumped. HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest bank,
advanced 1.8 in Hong Kong after European government officials
threw debt-strapped Ireland a lifeline.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 3.5 percent to 133.44 this
week, reversing three consecutive weeks of declines. Reports in
the U.S. showed consumer confidence rose to the highest level in
five months in November and jobless benefits over the past month
on average dropped to a two-year low.  “The economic data is clearly improving,” said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which manages about $93 billion and is a unit of AMP Ltd.,
Australia’s second-largest asset manager. “U.S. housing is
showing signs of life and the employment trend is finally
looking encouraging. The easing of European debt concerns is
releasing a handbrake on markets.”  Regional Benchmarks  In Japan, the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 1.4 percent,
its fifth straight weekly advance, while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index climbed 2.1 percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  gained 2.9 percent this week,
even as tensions escalated in the region following an attack by
North Korea on South Korean soil on Nov. 23.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 1.9 percent. The  Shanghai
Composite Index  retreated 1 percent, its fourth week of declines,
as Fan Gang, a former adviser to the People’s Bank of China,
said China may have room to further tighten monetary policy.  The country will shift to a “prudent” monetary policy
from a “moderately loose” one that has been in place since
late 2008, the state-run Xinhua News Agency said Dec. 3 after a
meeting of the ruling Communist Party’s Politburo.  All 10  industry groups  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose
this week, led by a 4.7 percent increase from information
technology shares, followed by material companies.  Honda, Japan’s second-largest automaker by market value,
gained 2.6 percent to 3,155 yen this week. James Hardie, which
receives 71 percent of its revenue from the U.S., surged 16
percent to A$6.20. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining
company, advanced 3.2 percent to A$44.59.  U.S. Economy Rebounding  Reports in the U.S. this week showed existing home sales
jumped, consumer spending and confidence rose and payrolls grew,
adding to speculation earnings growth will outweigh China’s
measures to tackle the fastest inflation in two years, and
Europe’s fiscal deficit crisis will worsen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has risen 10.8 percent this
year, with stocks on the gauge valued at 14.6 times  estimated
earnings  on average, compared with 23 times at the start of the
year.  Pending sales of U.S. existing houses jumped by a record 10
percent in October, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday. That compares with a median estimate by 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg for a 1 percent drop. Separate reports
showed claims for jobless benefits over the past month on
average dropped to a two-year low, and that November chain-store
sales exceeded estimates.  Payrolls Expand  U.S. consumer confidence rose in November to the highest in
five months. The Conference Board’s sentiment index increased to
54.1, exceeding the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey,
figures from the New York-based research group showed. The
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its business
gauge advanced to the highest since April.  A report from ADP Employer Services showed businesses added
93,000 workers to payrolls in November, more than the 70,000
expected by economists, based on the median of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are seeing promising signs in the economy and market
sentiment is improving globally,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who
oversees about $450 million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. “Improving sentiment should boost
money flow into risk assets.”  HSBC Holdings, which receives 36 percent of its revenue in
Europe, increased 1.8 percent in Hong Kong.  Techtronic
Industries Co. , maker of Hoover vacuum cleaners and Ryobi power
tools and receives 20 percent of its sales from Europe, jumped
9.6 percent to HK$9.11.  Canon Inc. , the world’s largest camera
maker that gets about a third of its revenue from Europe,
advanced 2.8 percent to 4,110 yen.  Ireland Bailout  In Europe, government officials meeting in Brussels on Nov.
28 threw Ireland an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) lifeline and
scaled back proposals to saddle bondholders with losses in
future budget crises, seeking to reverse the market selloff
menacing the euro.  Among other stocks that rose, Largan Precision Co., the
Taiwanese maker of optical lens modules, surged 19 percent in
Taipei on speculation it may be the sole lens supplier for the
new version of Apple Inc.’s iPad. The stock posted the  biggest
increase  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Information Technology Index
this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 