-- Biden Calls for Middle-Class Tax Cut, Long-Term Jobless Benefit Extension
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-12-04T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/biden-calls-for-middle-class-tax-cut-jobless-benefit-extension.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  urged
Congress to extend U.S. jobless benefits and tax cuts for the
middle class, saying that a failure to do so would damage the
economy.  In the administration’s weekly radio and Internet address,
Biden said a tax increase and an end of benefits for 2 million
jobless would drive up  unemployment  further and would slow
economic growth.  “Congress must extend these needed unemployment benefits
before it goes home for the year,” he said. “And it must
bolster economic growth by preserving tax cuts for our middle
class.”  Lawmakers have until the end of the year to agree on how to
extend expiring tax cuts, with President  Barack Obama  pushing
for an extension of the lower rates on the first $200,000 of an
individual’s annual income and the first $250,000 in yearly
earnings for married couples filing joint returns. Republicans
are backing an extension of the tax cuts for all income levels.  “By raising taxes in order to fuel higher spending, we
threaten to restart the recession, pushing millions of Americans
out of work,” Senator  Mark Kirk  of Illinois said in the
Republican weekly address.  The administration contends that that cost of extending the
tax cuts for higher earners -- $700 billion over 10 years -- is
too much while budget deficits are at record highs.  Kirk said Congress should use spending cuts, rather than
tax increases, to balance the budget.  Unemployment Benefits  Congress must also decide whether to extend jobless
benefits for the fourth time since December 2007.  Biden said the economy is showing “encouraging signs,”
such as five straight quarters of growth and the creation of
more than 1 million jobs in the private sector this year.  However, the Labor Department reported yesterday that the
unemployment rate rose to  9.8 percent  in November as the economy
added fewer jobs than forecast.  “There’s no doubt these are tough times,” Biden said. “
But we are slowly but surely fighting our way back, moving
forward.”  The vice president gave this week’s address because Obama
was traveling back from Afghanistan last night after an
unannounced visit with U.S. troops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  