-- Cook's Century Gives England 72-Run Lead Over Australia in 2nd Ashes Test
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-04T09:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/cook-s-century-gives-england-72-run-lead-over-australia-in-adelaide-test.html
Alastair Cook  hit back-to-back
centuries to lift England to a 72-run lead over Australia with
eight wickets in hand in the second Ashes cricket Test.  Cook, who scored a career-best 235 not out in the drawn
series opener in Brisbane, struck an unbeaten 136 at the
Adelaide Oval and shared hundred partnerships with  Jonathan Trott  and  Kevin Pietersen , who both made half-centuries.  Cook’s 15th Test century helped England stay on top after
 Andrew Strauss ’s team yesterday dismissed Australia for 245,
its lowest first-innings total in Adelaide for 17 years. Cook
and Pietersen will resume day three with the score at 317-2.  “We are in a really good position now but it’s only day
two,” Cook said at a news conference. “It’s important that we
keep battling tomorrow and get through that first half-hour and
focus on getting a really big score.”  England’s batsmen backed up the bowling effort to keep
Australia in the field all day as temperatures reached as high
as 37.5 degrees Celsius (99.5 degrees Fahrenheit) at the
Adelaide Oval.  The Australians, seeking to regain the Ashes following
last year’s 2-1 series loss in the U.K., have now taken just
three English wickets in their last 241 overs. The best-of-five
contest is tied at 0-0 after England rallied from a 221-run
first-innings deficit to draw in Brisbane.  ‘Fight’  “Everything seems to be going England’s way at the
moment,” Australia wicketkeeper  Brad Haddin  told reporters.
“We’ve got to make sure we come out over the next three days
and fight.”  Cook and Trott, who shared an unprecedented 329-run stand
at the Gabba, added 173 for the second wicket after Strauss got
out to the third ball of the day when he didn’t play at a Doug
Bollinger delivery that clipped the top of off stump.  Trott, who was nearly run out by Xavier Doherty on 6 and
dropped by  Mike Hussey  and Haddin on 10 and 76, made 78 before
flicking a Ryan Harris delivery to midwicket where  Michael Clarke  claimed a diving two-handed catch.  Cook and Trott took their partnership tally to 502 across
two innings after they lifted England to a record 517-1 in its
second innings in the first Test.  Pietersen joined Cook in the middle and they took the
score to 198-2 at tea. Cook, who successfully appealed against
a decision for caught behind when on 64, brought up his century
with a cut shot after the break and the pair batted through the
final session to lift their unbeaten stand to 141 runs.  Cook Cashes In  Cook hit 17 boundaries today in lifting his tally to 438
runs in his three innings so far in the series. Cook, 25, has
scored 15 Test hundreds before his 26th birthday, matching
Australian icon  Don Bradman  and only bettered by India’s  Sachin Tendulkar , the all-time leading Test run-scorer.  “At tea I was quite tired,” Cook said. “At 37 degrees
it’s up there with one of the hottest days I’ve played cricket
in, but you have to cash in when you’re in this kind of form.”  Pietersen, England’s leading run-scorer in Australia four
years ago, struck 13 boundaries in his 85 not out.  England fast bowler  James Anderson  took 4-51 and spinner
 Graeme Swann  2-70 yesterday as Australia was bowled out before
stumps after winning the toss. It was the home team’s worst
performance in the first innings at Adelaide since being
skittled out by the West Indies for 213 in 1993.  Australia has won the last three meetings between the
teams at the Adelaide Oval, where England’s last victory came
in 1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Adelaide through the Sydney newsroom at 
8601 or  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  