-- Hedge Funds Decline in November Amid Europe Debt Crisis, Stock Market Drop
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2010-12-04T18:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/hedge-funds-drop-most-since-may-as-european-crisis-worsens.html
Hedge funds declined the most in six
months in November as the European debt crisis pushed stock
markets lower across the globe.  The Bloomberg aggregate  hedge fund index  fell 1.5 percent,
the most since May, when a sudden selloff in stocks known as the
“flash crash” prompted investors to cut risk. Long-short
equity funds, whose managers can bet on rising and falling
stocks, dropped 1.6 percent last month and gained 6.1 percent
since the start of the year.  Global stocks slumped 2.3 percent in November amid concern
Europe’s debt turmoil may engulf Spain and Portugal after a
bailout of Ireland failed to persuade investors that the crisis
will be contained. Standard & Poor’s said last week it may cut
Portugal’s credit rating. Prime Minister Jose Socrates has
rejected suggestions the country may need a bailout.  Europe is “on the verge of collapse,”  James Melcher ,
founder of New York-based hedge fund Balestra Capital Partners
LP, said last week at the Hedge Funds New York conference,
organized by Bloomberg Link. “Germany may leave the euro with a
couple of stronger countries.”  The main Bloomberg hedge fund index is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,627 funds, 1,198 of which have so
far reported returns for November. The index fell to 116.71 last
month, compared with a peak of 130.38 in July 2007.  Lagging Behind Stocks  The November losses pare returns this year to 3.8 percent
on average, compared with a 6.7 percent rally in global stocks,
as measured by the MSCI World Index. Stock markets stabilized in
the second half, helped by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision
to buy an additional $600 billion in Treasuries to lower
borrowing costs and stimulate the economy.  Macro funds, whose managers seek to profit from global
themes or trends, failed to profit from the dislocations in
Europe, declining 1.1 percent in November. They’re still up 2.1
percent this year. Multistrategy hedge funds fell 1.5 percent
last month to bring gains for the year to 1.7 percent.  “The European debt crisis and QE2 are both having some
unpredictable impacts on asset pricing,” said  Adam Sussman , the
New York-based director of research at Tabb Group LLC.  ‘Difficult Month’  Hedge funds investing in asset-backed securities had the
biggest November loss of any strategy, falling 5.2 percent, for
a year-to-date return of 15 percent.  Hedge funds that aim to capitalize on the price
inefficiencies of fixed-income securities gained the most of any
strategy, increasing 0.2 percent last month and 11 percent since
the start of the year.  Funds seeking to profit from mergers and acquisitions
decreased 2.3 percent in November and 0.2 percent this year.  “November was a difficult month for hedge funds,” said
 Don Steinbrugge , managing partner of Agecroft Partners LLC, a
Richmond, Virginia-based consulting firm that advises hedge
funds and investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  