-- Euro Strengthens for First Time in a Month Versus Dollar on ECB Debt Moves
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-12-04T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/euro-strengthens-for-first-time-in-a-month-versus-dollar-on-ecb-debt-moves.html
The euro rose against the dollar for
the first week in a month as the European Central Bank moved to
curb the spread of the sovereign-debt crisis and economic data
in China and Europe fueled demand for higher-yielding assets.  The shared currency reversed an early-week slide as ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  extended liquidity measures and
the bank bought bonds to quell concern some nations may default
on their debt. Commodity-linked currencies gained, with South
Africa’s rand advancing the most in nine months, as raw-material
prices surged. U.S. consumer confidence is at a six-month high,
a survey may show next week.  “The ECB was actually being very aggressive in the bond
market,” said  Matthew Strauss , senior currency strategist in
Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada. “When the euro was at the
$1.30 level and the market was deciding to either push it down
further or let it correct, that was enough for the market.”  The euro strengthened 1.3 percent to $1.3414 yesterday, the
first increase since the five days ended Nov. 5, from $1.3242 on
Nov. 26. It touched $1.2969 on Nov. 30, the lowest level since
Sept. 15. The shared currency fell 0.6 percent to 110.73 yen,
from 111.37.  The yen gained against the dollar for the first time in
five weeks, advancing 1.9 percent to 82.53, the strongest level
since Nov. 15. It closed at 84.10 on Nov. 26.  Currencies linked to global growth, such as South Africa’s
rand, the Norwegian krone and the Australian dollar, advanced as
commodities rose. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index  of 19
raw materials gained 5 percent for the week, the most since
October 2009.  Rand Climbs  The rand appreciated 4 percent, the most since March, to
6.8760 per dollar. The krone climbed 3.4 percent to 5.9523 per
greenback and the Aussie rose 3 percent to 99.31 U.S. cents.  U.S. stocks gained, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
increasing 3 percent, the biggest weekly jump in a month.  The euro began a three-day advance against the dollar on
Dec. 1 amid speculation the ECB would take fresh steps at its
meeting the next day to stem debt-crisis contagion and as data
showed manufacturing expanded in China, the U.S. and Europe.  China’s factory  Purchasing Managers Index  climbed for a
fourth month in November, according to a logistics federation
report. European manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in
four months in a factory gauge of the euro area, London-based
Markit Economics said, while the  Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index  showed U.S. manufacturing accelerated
for a 16th straight month.  South Korea’s won had the biggest weekly gain in two
months, rising 1.9 percent to 1,138.55 per dollar.  ECB Buys Bonds  While Trichet stopped short of announcing new steps on
Europe’s debt crisis, he said the ECB will keep offering banks
as much money as they want at a fixed interest rate for seven
days, one month and three months through the first quarter. It
also continued a bond-buying program.  The bank purchased Irish, Portuguese and Greek government
debt over the past two days, according to traders who asked not
to be identified because the deals are confidential. An ECB
spokesman declined to comment.  “The ECB purchasing debt had the biggest role in the
reversal of the euro,” said  John Doyle , a strategist in
Washington at currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc. “The
underlying issues for the European sovereigns and banking
sectors have not gone away, but we’ve just shifted focus.”  Dollar Index Drops  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the euro
and yen,  fell  for the first time in four weeks, losing 1.5
percent to 79.150. The gauge extended its decline yesterday as
data showed U.S. payrolls grew in November by less than one-
third as many jobs as forecast. Employers added 39,000
positions, and the unemployment rate unexpectedly rose to 9.8
percent, from 9.6 percent.  The currencies of Canada and Mexico, which on average ship
about three-quarters of their exports to the U.S., were the only
major counterparts of the dollar not to rise yesterday.  “With Mexico and Canada, they are slaves to the U.S., so
today is just a little bit of an adjustment,”  Andrew Wilkinson ,
senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in
Greenwich, Connecticut, said yesterday. “This did not sink the
ship of recovery, it just slowed it down.”  The Canadian dollar still rose 1.7 percent for the week to
C$1.0039, and the peso advanced 1.2 percent to 12.3369 a dollar.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment rose to 72.5 in December, the highest in six
months, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before the data is released on Dec. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  