-- Gbagbo Sworn in as Ivory Coast President, Defying UN, Electoral Commission
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-12-04T19:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/gbagbo-sworn-in-as-ivory-coast-president-defying-un-electoral-commission.html
Laurent Gbagbo  was sworn in as  Ivory
Coast ’s president, in defiance of the United Nations, the
country’s Electoral Commission and U.S. President Barack Obama,
who have recognized his rival as the winner of last month’s
elections.  Gbagbo took the oath of office at a ceremony in Abidjan
today, after the Constitutional Council said results released by
the Electoral Commission showing  Alassane Ouattara  won 54.1
percent of the vote cast on Nov. 28 were invalid. Ouattara’s
office said he also swore the presidential oath of office today.
Armed forces leaders have backed the incumbent Gbagbo.  “It’s going to be a rough ride in the Ivory Coast,”  Kissy Agyeman-Togobo , a partner at Songhai Advisory LLP, which serves
clients interested in Africa, said by telephone from London.
“There is a very, very real threat of conflict. I think it will
be difficult for Gbagbo to hang on.”  The election was meant to unite the world’s top cocoa
grower, which has been divided into a rebel-held north and
government-controlled south since a 2002 uprising. The dispute
over the results may worsen violence that left several dead
during the campaign, with Ouattara supporters taking to the
streets in protest.  The African Union said in an e-mailed statement that it has
asked former South Africa President  Thabo Mbeki  to lead an
emergency mission to Ivory Coast “to facilitate the rapid and
peaceful conclusion of the electoral process and the efforts to
find a way out of the crisis.”  Mbeki Dispatched  Mbeki’s office said in an e-mailed statement that both
leaders had agreed to talks.  “I swear solemnly and on my honor to respect and
faithfully defend the constitution,” Gbagbo said to cheers and
applause from about 400 supporters who packed a hall at the
presidential palace. Gbagbo, 65, accused his rivals of not
respecting the democratic process and said Ivory Coast’s
sovereignty would never be compromised.  Ouattara was sworn in at 11 a.m. local time and had legal
documents to prove he was the rightful president, his spokesman
 Mabri Toikeusse  told reporters in Abidjan today, without giving
further details.  Prime Minister  Guillaume Soro  today tendered his
resignation to Ouattara, who reappointed him to the post and
asked him to form a new government. Soro is a former rebel and
head of the New Forces grouping that controls the northern part
of the country, told reporters in Abidjan today.  ‘Good Hands’  “Ivory Coast is now in good hands,” Outtara told
reporters at a ceremony at Abidjan’s Gulf hotel. “This was a
historic election.”  State television screened footage late yesterday of General
Philippe Mangou, chief of the armed forces, accompanied by the
heads of the police, gendarmerie, navy and Republican Guard,
going to congratulate Gbagbo.  “We have come to greet the president of the republic, we
are here to express our admiration and to reiterate our
availability and our loyalty, and to tell him that we are ready
to take on any mission that he will entrust us with,” Mangou
said.  The Constitutional Council annulled the results in seven
regions in the north of the country, alleging irregularities,
and gave victory to Gbagbo,  Paul Yao N’Dre , its president, said
in a statement read on television yesterday.  UN Backs Ouattara  Young-jin Choi, the UN mission chief, backed the results
announced by the Electoral Commission on Dec. 2, saying the
denial of Ouattara’s victory had “no factual basis.”  Ouattara supporters used tables and pieces of wood to
barricade streets and set car tires afire in the Abidjan suburb
of Treichville today. Police dressed in riot gear fired shots
into the air to disperse the crowd and doused the fires with
buckets of water.  Clashes between the rival camps have claimed the lives of
18 people in Abidjan alone since last night, said  Amadou Coulibaly , a spokesman for Ouattara’s party.  “Gbagbo’s desire to hang onto his presidency, seemingly at
all costs, could push the country over the edge into another
civil war,”  Gus Selassi , an analyst at IHS Global Insight, said
in e-mailed comments.  The army has sealed off all the country’s borders until
further notice, the military said in a statement read out on
state television. Foreign television and radio signals have been
jammed indefinitely, the National Broadcasting Council said in a
separate statement.  Sarkozy  UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  released a statement in
New York saying he supports Choi and congratulating Ouattara.  Obama urged Gbagbo to accept defeat, saying late yesterday
that “the international community will hold those who act to
thwart the democratic process and the will of the electorate
accountable for their actions.”  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  of France described Ouattara’s
victory in the former French colony, which became independent in
1960, as “uncontestable and certain,” and called for an
orderly transition of power.  “I am calling on the military and civilian authorities to
respect the people’s choice and refrain from any initiative that
could cause violence,” Sarkozy said today in Bangalore, India,
at the start of a four-day state visit.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said in a
statement today that he joined the international community in
congratulating Ouattara as the “legitimate winner” of the
elections and called for the outcome to be respected.  Ivory Coast’s growth has averaged 1.1 percent in the eight
years since the conflict started as the cocoa-dependent country
missed out on the wave of foreign investment in Africa from
nations such as China.  Gbagbo’s supporters hold Ouattara, 68, responsible for the
revolt in 2002, a charge he denies. Cocoa for March delivery
climbed $67, or 2.3 percent, to 2,935 pounds in New York
yesterday after jumping 4 percent the day before.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 