-- Groupon Is Said to Spurn Google’s $6 Billion Acquisition Offer
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-12-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/google-bid-to-buy-groupon-site-is-said-to-be-rejected-update1-.html
Groupon Inc., a Chicago-based
Internet-coupon service with more than 35 million users, walked
away from an acquisition offer from  Google Inc.  yesterday,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The proposed acquisition fell through amid hesitation by
Groupon’s founding team, said the person, who requested
anonymity because the talks are private. The startup will 
decide next year whether to sell shares in an initial public
offering instead,the person said. The discussions could
resume if both sides overcome their differences.  Google  had offered $6 billion, including incentives that
would be paid to the target’s managers if performance targets
were met, people familiar with the matter had said this week.
Groupon would have helped its new owner expand in the $133
billion U.S. local-ad market and lessen its reliance on
Internet-search advertising.  “Clearly Google wants to get into the local space and
Groupon was one way,” said  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at
ThinkEquity LLC in San Francisco, who has a “buy” rating on
Google and doesn’t own it. “I don’t think from a Google
perspective that if they miss out, that there’s not other ways
to get into local.”  Groupon Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  had the
biggest say in the decision as the largest shareholder,
according to another person familiar with the talks. He had
concerns about the strategic direction the company would take
under new management, the person said. Mason also was
concerned about what could happen to merchant relationships 
and his employees, according to the person.  Google’s Biggest Deal  Google CEO  Eric Schmidt  had been willing to pay almost
twice the $3.2 billion he spent on DoubleClick Inc., his next-
most expensive target, to add features and repel a threat from
such rivals as Facebook Inc.  Jill Hazelbaker , a spokeswoman for Google, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation. Julie Mossler, a
Groupon spokeswoman, also declined to comment.  Google, which boasts  $33.4 billion  in cash and marketable
securities, had initially offered between $3.5 billion and $4
billion to buy Groupon, a person familiar with the matter has
said. The startup, which was also contemplating raising new
venture funding, held out, eliciting a sweetened offer from
Google, the person said.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, rose $1.18 to
$573 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have
dropped 7.6 percent this year.  The Chicago Tribune initially reported Groupon’s rejection.  Groupon’s Growth  Groupon’s allure has rubbed off on lookalike coupon sites.
Amazon.com Inc. said on Dec. 2 it invested $175 million in
LivingSocial.com, another provider of daily online deals.  Founded by Mason in 2008, Groupon has attracted 35 million
users in more than 300 global markets by offering steep
discounts on such items as pedicures, hotel stays and bike tune-
ups. The company makes money by keeping part of the revenue
raised by the coupons. Groupon’s sales may top $500 million this
year, two people familiar with the matter have said.  Groupon had a valuation of about $1.3 billion in April,
after Digital Sky Technologies led a group that invested in the
company. It has raised $170 million from investors, including
Facebook backer Accel Partners and New Enterprise Associates.  Google could have used Groupon to gather data on consumers
as they interact around the time of a purchase, and then use
that information to hone other products, including ads, said  Ben Schachter , an analyst at Macquarie Securities Group.  Local Focus  “Locally focused e-commerce transaction data tied to one’s
Google account could be used to improve personalization of other
Google features as well as improve ad targeting,” Schachter,
who rates the stock an “outperform,” wrote in a research note.  Google could also have incorporated Groupon coupons into
the location-based services of its Android mobile operating
system, said  Yun Kim , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in New York,
who rates the stock “neutral” and doesn’t own it. For example,
as an Android user passes by a mall, Google could deliver
coupons for nearby stores.  Still, Groupon was an unusual acquisition target for
Google, which tends to buy companies that boast a technological
advantage, such as online video, as was the case with YouTube.  To distinguish itself from lookalikes, Groupon plans to
test new features that let businesses easily create deals
through an online service called Groupon Stores. The company
also is testing a feature called Deal Feed that lets users track
favorite businesses as they might on blogging site Twitter Inc.  Regulators would probably have scrutinized the planned
acquisition of Groupon to ensure it doesn’t harm consumers.  “People are going to be concerned about what happens when
you link Groupon’s daily-deal services to Google search,” said
 Dan Wall , an  antitrust lawyer and partner  at Latham & Watkins in
San Francisco.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 