-- Jindal Says Palin `Absolutely' Electable as President (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2010-12-04T02:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/governor-jindal-says-palin-absolutely-qualified-transcript-.html
Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that former Alaska Governor
 Sarah Palin  is “absolutely” electable as president; he also
said he believes that last year’s government bailouts of
financial services companies and automobile manufacturers were a
“mistake” and that immigration policy should include “a
policy of assimilation.”  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Louisiana Governor Bobby
Jindal, who joins us from the governor’s mansion in Baton Rouge,
Louisiana. Welcome, governor. And we’re going to talk about -  BOBBY JINDAL: Al, it’s great to be back on the show with
you.  HUNT: Let me ask you, in “Leadership in Crisis,” you’re
very critical of the Obama administration in the sense that the
federal government, you think, has lost direction by trying to
run car companies and banks. But experts like Alan Greenspan and
Paul Volcker say TARP and Bernanke saved the world from a
cataclysm, and taxpayers are getting all the money back that was
given to Wall Street. GM has new leadership, successful IPO, and
the road to profitability.  Knowing what you know now, would you have let Wall Street
and GM go belly-up in 2008-2009?  JINDAL: I still think that the bailouts - I think the
interventions were a mistake. Let’s look at a couple of facts.
One, taxpayers still haven’t been made whole from GM. Stock
prices for - the share prices in GM would have to go up fairly
dramatically for us to even break even.  But even greater than that, even greater than the tens and
hundreds of billions of dollars that were put potentially at
risk, what is of greater concern is this idea that the
government’s going to pick winners and losers.  Bloomberg did a great analysis showing that many of the
firms - many of those Wall Street firms that benefited from
these programs actually helped devise and guide these programs.
You get the potential - when the government’s picking winners
and losers, you have the potential for politics to interfere and
determine who gets the money and who benefits.  I think it would have been much better - it would have been
much better, rather than picking some firms as too big to fail,
it would have been much better if the government had said,
“Here are the rules of the road. We’re going to make it
predictable.”  Let me give you an example here in Louisiana. Nucor is a
large steel company. They want to invest up to $3.4 billion in
my state, Al, up to five bases (ph), 1,250 jobs, $75,000 per
job. This is a huge industrial investment. They finally made the
decision to proceed, but they have told us one of the reasons
they’ve delayed several months, maybe even more than a year, was
the uncertainty in Washington over cap and trade and
regulations. Based on that uncertainty, they thought about going
to Brazil instead of building in America.  You multiply that out by thousands of times, I think the
government could do more to stimulate the economy by providing a
predictable, transparent environment, not trying to pick winners
and losers.  HUNT: You talk, also, in the book - you note that you’re
the son of - of immigrants, and you want a policy that focuses
on high-skilled workers and securing the borders. Let me ask you
an issue that’s up right now. Should or should not Congress pass
the so-called DREAM Act, which would grant a path to citizenship
to children of illegals who serve in the American military or go
to college?  JINDAL: A couple of things, Al. One, I think it’s a mistake
to start with anything other than securing our borders. Back in
the ‘80s, there was a comprehensive deal that was going to
secure the borders, grant amnesty. Well, they granted amnesty,
and they didn’t secure the borders. Let’s not repeat that. Let’s
secure the borders, and then let’s move on to the other pieces.  HUNT: So - so - so it’d be a mistake - it’d be a mistake to
pass the DREAM Act now?  JINDAL: To do it now? Absolutely. I think the first thing
they have to do to restore trust with the American people is
secure the borders.  Let’s also have an honest discussion about immigration. I
also write in the book we as American people, we’re not going to
kick children out of school. We’re not going to turn people away
from hospitals. That’s not who we are as a people.  Let’s do three things when it comes to immigration: Secure
the borders. Let’s make sure we have a rational immigration
policy that’s not kicking out high-skilled workers. Let’s have a
rational immigration policy that allows people in who want to
work, who want to contribute to American - the American economy
and the American dream. But, third, let’s also - and this is an
important part of the immigration debate - let’s also have a
policy of assimilation.  You know, what’s made our country so great - it doesn’t
matter whether you’ve been here 100 hours, 100 years. People
like my parents have come from all over the world and sought a
better life for themselves and their children, but part of the
immigration experience has been assimilation -  HUNT: Well, do you worry that -  JINDAL:  - you contribute your ideas, your culture -  HUNT: Do you worry that your party -  JINDAL: I’m sorry. Go ahead.  HUNT: Do you worry your party is being perceived as anti-
immigrant now?  I mean - I mean, you look at groups like
Hispanics, they voted overwhelming Democratic in a Republican
year.  JINDAL: Well, I think that if the Republican Party will
emphasize its principles, its core conservative principles, they
can be - they’re applicable to people of all different
backgrounds. We talk about the American dream of homeowner, of
building and owning small businesses, offering better education
for all of our children regardless of their geography or zip
code, the idea that it doesn’t matter what your last name is or
where you come from.  If you’re willing to work hard and get a great education,
you can do great things in this - in this country, and we’re
willing to lower your tax rates to help you do it, I think the
Republican message can be very appealing to people from all - to
all kinds of different backgrounds. At the same time, I don’t
think we should compromise our principles.  HUNT: But do you think the party has failed - do you think
the party has failed in getting that message across?  JINDAL: Look, obviously, I think we can be a lot more
effective in communicating our principles. I think the party has
also failed in being consistent with our principles. I think one
of the reasons we lost power four years ago in D.C. was we
strayed from our core principles. We spent too much. We defended
corruption and other things we would never have tolerated in the
Democratic Party.  I think we can win voters from all types of backgrounds if
we’re consistent with our principles, but we also show people
how our principles are relevant to their concerns and their
issues.  HUNT: Governor, let me ask you one local question. You’re -
you’re financially strapped like most states, but you were
talking about a potential 35 percent cut in state funding for
higher education. I saw a piece in the New Orleans Times-
Picayune the other day, James Carville, who’s a Democrat, Henson
Moore, one of the most prominent Republicans in the state, say
that would be a disaster for LSU, lose 8,000 students, up to a
third of the faculty.  Wouldn’t it be better to raise fees or taxes than that kind
of cut to the LSU budget?  JINDAL: A couple of things. We’re not cutting higher
education 35 percent. We’re in the beginning of our budget
process. We’ll present a budget in March. I’ve met with higher
education leaders, made it very clear we’re going to close that
gap, we’re not going to raise taxes.  What we are going to do - we’ve cut - Al, we’ve cut overall
spending in Louisiana 26 percent since I was elected governor.
We have cut higher education by about 4.5 percent. We’re all
going to have to do more with less. We’re not going to raise
taxes. We’re working with higher education to be more
accountable, more focused. We ranked ninth highest in the
country in the percentage of our state tax dollars -  HUNT: Just quickly. How much - how much will the LSU budget
be cut, do you think?  JINDAL: Well, look, we’re going to present a budget in
March. I met with the higher education folks this week to get
their ideas, how we can mitigate those cuts. It won’t be 35
percent. But what we are going to have to do is be more
efficient. Our schools can’t be all things to all people.  Let’s focus on unique areas of excellence and make sure our
students are actually graduating. For too many years in
Louisiana, we have paid our schools to be the biggest, not the
best. We passed the Grad Act to give them more flexibility, more
authority in return for better outcomes.  One of the things LSU -  HUNT: Governor, let me ask you one final - I want to get
one - I want to get one political question in. You’ve said there
are a lot of strong GOP contenders, including Sarah Palin. Joe
Scarborough, the former congressman, the other day said it’s
time for Republicans like you to man up and acknowledge that
Sarah Palin is a reality show star who can’t be elected. What do
you say?  JINDAL: Two things. One, I love Joe. I’ve been on his show
several times. But I don’t like anybody - whether it’s the
Republican establishment, D.C. insiders - trying to tell the
Republican voters who their nominee should be. I think there are
several strong contenders. Governor Palin is one of them; there
are many others. I don’t think the establishment should try and
get together to pick the nominee. Let the voters decide.  HUNT: So you think Sarah Palin could be elected?  Do you
think Sarah Palin’s electable?  JINDAL: Oh, absolutely. I think it’s up to her to make the
case to voters. I think we have several - and, by the way, I am
biased towards governors and those that have run organizations
and executives who’ve had to balance budgets, make tough
choices.  But when I first ran for governor, Al, the establishment
didn’t think I should run. There were folks - I write about it
in the book - that didn’t think I should run. The money people
got together and said, “Maybe you should get out of the race.”
The voters get to decide that -  HUNT: I remember you and I talking -  JINDAL:  - it’s not up to me. It’s not up to Joe. It’s up
to the voters.  HUNT: I remember you and I talking before you ran.
Governor, thank you so much for being with us today.  JINDAL: Al, great to be with you. Thank you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610524.7439435.2.1.69.30975.25>#
-0- Dec/04/2010 02:07 GMT
 