-- Iranian Nuclear Weapons Reports `Untrue,' Foreign Minister Mottaki Says
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-12-04T09:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/iranian-nuclear-weapons-reports-untrue-foreign-minister-mottaki-says.html
Reports that Iran is trying to
develop nuclear weapons “are untrue” and peaceful uranium
enrichment is vital for the country’s energy needs, its foreign
minister said before nuclear talks in Europe this week.  World powers are “trying to stop our independence to
establish a much-needed power plant,”  Manouchehr Mottaki  said
today in Bahrain. “It is our right to create fuel and to
deprive us of that right is scientific apartheid.”  Iran’s nuclear program, which has drawn four sets of United
Nations sanctions, is at the center of a dispute between the
U.S., its allies and the Persian Gulf country. Iran says it is
producing uranium to use as fuel in nuclear reactors to generate
electricity while the other countries accuse it of trying to
build atomic weapons.  Iran’s President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said Nov. 30 he is
ready for nuclear talks with a European Union-led group that
includes the U.S., China, Russia, France, the U.K. and Germany.
The parties, which last met more than a year ago, will meet Dec.
6-7 in Geneva, the office of EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said Nov. 12 in Brussels.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday that
the success or failure of talks next week on Iran’s nuclear
program is “largely in the hands of the Iranians.” Speaking
directly to Mottaki and other Iranian delegates at the opening
session of a conference in Bahrain, Clinton said the U.S. hopes
Iran comes to the Dec. 6 meeting “as we will -- in good faith
and prepared to engage constructively” on nuclear issues.  Technical Difficulties  The International Atomic Energy Agency said in a report
last month that Iran delayed plans to make fuel for a reactor
and may have run into technical difficulties.  The number of installed centrifuges that Iran uses to
enrich uranium, the heavy metal used to fuel nuclear power
plants and construct atomic bombs, fell to 8,426 from 8,856
three months ago, the IAEA said Nov. 23 in a restricted report
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Iran supports the creation of an international nuclear fuel
bank, Mottaki said today. “Since we are a fuel producer we ask
that a branch of the bank is established in Iran,” he said.  State Department cables released by  Wikileaks.org  this week
appear to show that Arab countries, including Saudi Arabia, had
appealed to the U.S. to attack Iran to stop its nuclear program.
Saudi Arabia has said it isn’t sure whether the cables are
genuine. The Sunni Muslim kingdom and Iran, which follows Shiite
teachings, are regional rivals.  “We must not submit to pressures by outsiders on the
region that divide us and create instability and create
divisions among friends in the region,” Mottaki said today.
“In the region it has been proven that foreign intervention
creates unhealthy rivalries between neighbors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Bahrain via Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg. at  at
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 