-- Israel Gets Firefighting Aid From Abroad to Help Quell Deadly Haifa Blaze
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2010-12-04T19:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/israel-gets-firefighting-aid-from-abroad-to-help-quell-deadly-haifa-blaze.html
More firefighting aircraft arrived in
Israel today and will arrive tomorrow from Europe and the U.S.
to help stop a forest blaze near the port city of Haifa that is
spreading after killing at least 41 people and forcing 17,000 to
flee their homes.  The fire, described by Israeli officials as the worst in
the country’s history, has forced the government to turn to the
international community for assistance. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in a televised press conference that the aircraft
Israel has received from the international community are crucial
in stopping the blaze  “This battle will be decided in the air, by airpower, and
by the weather, the combination of the two,” Netanyahu said.
While describing the fire as a “difficult crisis,” he said it
made clear that “many nations of the world stand by the people
of Israel - and that’s not a small thing.”  Since the blaze started two days ago, Israel has received
13 firefighting planes and helicopters from the U.S., U.K.,
Greece, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Turkey, France, Russia, Italy and
Jordan. Another six planes and three helicopters are expected to
arrive today from the U.S., France, Russia and Switzerland, and
tomorrow nine more planes from the U.S., Spain and Germany.  “It will likely take some 24 to 48 hours to fully contain
the fire, which is contained in some areas and has spread to
others,”  Micky Rosenfeld , a police spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  Two Arrests  Two men were arrested today for causing the initial fire
that broke out two days ago by what appears to be negligence,
Rosenfeld said, without providing more details because the
investigation is ongoing. Two other men were arrested yesterday
on suspicion of deliberately lighting secondary fires not
connected with the main blaze, police said.  The Israeli prime minister spoke yesterday with President
 Barack Obama  about the need for more aid, Netanyahu’s office
said in a statement. “President Obama said that he is putting
the highest priority to transfer urgent aid to Israel,” the
statement said.  “Israel has never faced a natural disaster of this scope,
where it had to call on outside help, and it might have some
diplomatic implications,” said  Gerald Steinberg , professor of
political science at  Bar Ilan University  outside Tel Aviv.  Abbas, Turkish Aid  Netanyahu said he had a “warm” discussion today with
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who offered any
assistance he could to help Israel with the fire. The U.S. is
trying to restart peace talks between the Israelis and
Palestinians that broke down in September over the issue of
construction West Bank settlements.  Two Turkish firefighting planes were dispatched on the
instructions of Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , the Turkish
Foreign Ministry said. At a Security Cabinet meeting, Netanyahu
thanked Erdogan and other leaders who offered help.  Relations between Israel and Turkey have been strained
since Israeli commandos killed nine Turkish citizens in a May 31
raid on an aid flotilla seeking to break the blockade of the
Gaza Strip.  “I hope this will be the beginning of better relations
between our two countries,” Netanyahu told reporters in Haifa,
in comments broadcast on Channel 2 television.  U.S. Chemicals  The U.S. is sending three experts to offer technical
assistance on aerial firefighting,  Nancy Lindborg , an assistant
administrator at the U.S. Agency for International Development,
told reporters on a conference call. The team arrives this
weekend, she said.  At the request of the Israeli government, the U.S. is also
sending 45 metric tons of fire-retarding chemicals used for
aerial spraying and 12,000 liters of foam to help suppress fires
on structures.  Most of the 41 confirmed dead were killed on Dec. 2 in a
bus carrying prison guards on their way to help evacuate a
prison endangered by the flames, Rosenfeld said.  Officials aren’t yet able to give an overall damage
estimate from the fire, the Finance Ministry said in a
statement. Most of the private and public property in the area
is covered by insurance, the ministry said.  The fire began around midday Dec. 2 in the Carmel hills
south of Haifa, a city with a population of 266,000.
Exceptionally dry weather created conditions that allowed the
flames to spread quickly, said Salman Abu Rukun, an employee of
the  Israel Nature and National Parks Protection Authority .  About 12,500 acres of forest have been destroyed by the
fire, Efi Stenzler, Chairman of the Jewish National Fund that
plants trees in Israel, told Channel 2 television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 