-- Jim Furyk Wins PGA Tour Player of Year Title as Tiger Woods Goes Winless
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-12-04T22:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/jim-furyk-wins-pga-tour-player-of-year-title-as-tiger-woods-goes-winless.html
Jim Furyk  won the U.S. PGA Tour’s
Player of the Year award, a title that had gone to Tiger Woods
nine of the past 11 years.  Furyk, 40, was the only player with three victories on the
world’s top golf circuit this season. The 2003 U.S. Open winner
captured the  Transitions Championship  in March, the  Verizon
Heritage  tournament in April and the season-ending Tour
Championship in September, a victory that secured his first
FedEx Cup points title.  Furyk became the third winner of the award in 12 years with
fewer than five titles during the season.  Padraig Harrington ,
the 2008 winner, captured the British Open and PGA Championship
that year.  Mark O’Meara  won the  Masters Tournament  and British
Open when he earned the honor in 1998.  “Three wins might not look good against what Phil or Tiger
or Vijay have done maybe in the past, but that was more wins
than anyone else had last year,” Furyk said at a press
conference Dec. 1 at the Chevron World Challenge event in
Thousand Oaks, California.  It’s also the second straight year the Player of the Year
title went to a golfer who didn’t win a major title that season.
Woods was the 2009 recipient, with no majors among six
victories.  Second on Money List  Furyk was asked during the press conference Dec. 1 if
Woods’s poor performance took some of the shine off winning the
award.  “Everyone on January 1 had the same opportunity to go out
and play well as I did,” he said. “I realize Tiger wasn’t his
best. He had other things off the course. But I’m not going to
feel badly. There wouldn’t be in asterisk in my mind.”  Furyk, a 16-year PGA Tour veteran, finished second behind
Matt Kuchar on the  money list  with $4.8 million over 21 events.
Kuchar earned $4.9 million in 26 tournaments. Furyk ranked fifth
with a 69.83  scoring average  and had seven top-10 finishes.  Ballots for the award went out to PGA Tour players in mid-
November after the Children’s Miracle Network Classic, the
season’s final official event. Vote totals weren’t disclosed in
a statement released by the Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida-based
Tour, the world’s richest golf circuit.  Woods failed to win a tournament this season for the first
time since 1996 and lost the No. 1 spot in the Official World
Golf Ranking that he had held for a record 281 straight weeks.  He spent the first three months of the season in self-
imposed exile from golf after acknowledging that he repeatedly
cheated on his wife, revelations that were sparked by a one-
vehicle accident in the early morning of Nov. 27, 2009, that
left him slightly injured. Woods and his wife of five years,
Elin Nordegren, announced their divorce in August.  Woods is hosting this week’s  Chevron World Challenge 
exhibition event at the Sherwood Country Club in Thousand Oaks,
California. Furyk is the defending champion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  