-- New South Wales Orders Evacuations as Australian Floods Claim First Victim
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-12-04T23:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/new-south-wales-orders-evacuations-as-australian-floods-claim-first-victim.html
Australia’s  most populous state , New
South Wales, ordered evacuations as river levels surged and a
man was drowned in floods triggered by rainstorms across the
nation’s east coast.  Residents of three New South Wales western communities
received evacuation orders as the  Murrumbidgee River  is forecast
to reach “major flood level” of 9.6 meters (31.5 feet) tonight
and peak near 10 meters, the State Emergency Service said.  The body of an 81-year-old man in the northern state of
Queensland was recovered late yesterday after his utility
vehicle was swept away in a causeway in the Rockhampton area,
 state police  said. Queensland emergency services used boats to
evacuated nine people in the central region.  The floods, which have damaged Australia’s winter crops and
driven up global wheat prices, are part of a  La Nina  event that
cools the Pacific Ocean and increases rainfall. The impact on
the nation’s agricultural industry may prompt a revision to
third-quarter economic growth, the Australian newspaper
reported.  Rains are likely to affect grain quality for crops such as
wheat, barley, canola, chickpeas and lupins, according to New
South Wales Emergency Services Minister  Steve Whan . He estimated
A$500 million ($497 million) was wiped off the state’s forecast
A$3.2 billion winter harvest.  The state emergency service said access to the New South
Wales community of North Wagga Wagga may be cut today and rising
river levels threaten the levee in the area.  Locust Swarms  Floods have begun to ease in Queensland and the southern
state of Victoria, according to local emergency services.
Victorian farmers are now facing a swarm of locusts that the
state  Department of Primary Industries  says could be the worst
plague in 75 years.  Swarms have been reported at Charlton, Echuca, St Arnaud,
Quambatook and Wycheproof, with some stretching up to 25
kilometers (16 miles), the department said.  State Locust Director Stephen Nee said the swarms have the
potential to move quickly into other areas.  “Locust swarms can be unpredictable, but with warmer
weather forecast in the state’s north this weekend, it’s
expected that greater numbers of locusts may start to fly,” he
said in a statement. “We urge motorists to take care as swarms
can impact on visibility when driving.”  Australia’s agricultural industry expanded 18.5 percent
last quarter, driven by “strong crop forecasts,” the Bureau of
Statistics said last week in a report that showed the economy
expanded 0.2 percent from three months earlier. That was the
worst performance since a contraction at the end of 2008.  ‘Negative Change’  Mick Keogh , executive director of the Australian Farm
Institute, said that if the data “for agriculture were
corrected for the loss of value in the crop sector due to the
rain, it is highly likely Australia would have experienced
negative change in GDP for the quarter,” The Australian
newspaper reported yesterday.  Wheat futures for March delivery jumped 30.5 cents, or 4.1
percent, to settle at $7.79 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade on Dec. 3, after touching $7.82, the highest for
a most-active contract since Aug. 6. Prices were up 13 percent
for the week, the most since early August.  Futures have surged since the end of June, as drought in
Russia and floods in Canada cut output, while dry weather in the
U.S. Great Plains threatened winter crops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  