-- South Korea Begins Live-Firing Drills That North Says Threaten War
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-12-06T06:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/north-korea-condemns-u-s-japan-south-korea-military-alliance.html
South Korea’s military began
live-firing drills off its coastline, similar to exercises held
last month that North Korea says prompted it to shell a South
Korean island, killing four people.  The South Korean government warned ships to avoid 29 areas,
including one about 7 miles (11 kilometers) from Daecheong
island close to the disputed western border. A spokesman at the
Joint Chiefs of Staff in Seoul, who declined to be named because
of military policy, couldn’t confirm whether all the drills had
started on schedule.  North Korea yesterday warned that the South risked
"catastrophic consequences" with its plans. The government “is
so hell-bent on the moves to escalate the confrontation and
start a war that it is recklessly behaving bereft of reason,”
the state-run Korean Central News Agency said in a commentary.  Tensions have risen on the Korean peninsula since North
Korea’s Nov. 23 artillery attack on Yeonpyeong island close to
the western maritime boundary. Prime Minister  Kim Hwang Sik 
reiterated today that South Korea will bolster its military
presence in border areas.  "Our military is bolstering our readiness to respond
sternly to any further provocation," Kim said in a nationally
televised statement. The government will spend 30 billion won
($26.5 million) to help Yeonpyeong residents rebuild after the
attack, Kim said.  Yeonpyeong Shelling  North Korea fired artillery at the fishing community and
military outpost in the first shelling of South Korean soil
since the 1950-1953 war. North Korea said it was responding to a
military provocation after South Korea fired into waters each
country claims.  North Korea doesn’t recognize the western sea border
demarcated by the United Nations after the war and demands it
should be drawn further south to include Yeonpyeong and four
neighboring islands.  South Korea’s new defense minister,  Kim Kwan Jin , on Dec. 3
vowed retaliation that would include air strikes in response to
a new North Korean attack.  "I will mobilize all combat capabilities available to
severely punish the enemy," Kim, former chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said at his confirmation hearing. “I will
surely use planes. This is a matter of self-defense.” North
Korea denounced the comments in yesterday’s KCNA statement.  ‘Reckless Moves’  North Korea two days ago blasted the U.S., South Korea and
Japan for “reckless moves” to create a military alliance that
threatens peace in North Asia. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will today host Japan’s Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara 
and South Korean counterpart  Kim Sung Hwan  in Washington to
discuss regional security.  “The situation on the Korean Peninsula is getting tenser
as the days go by and the danger of a war is increasing hour by
hour,” KCNA reported, citing a commentary in the state-run
Rodong newspaper. “The U.S. is giving spurs to an arms buildup
and preparations for a war.”  The U.S. sent the USS George Washington to join South
Korean naval forces in an exercise in the Yellow Sea at the end
of November and the aircraft carrier is now taking part in
drills with Japan involving about 400 aircraft and 60 warships.
More than 40,000 Japanese and U.S. military personnel began a
weeklong exercise on Dec. 3.  No Link  The Japan-U.S. military exercise has no link to any
“existing or perceived political or geographical situation nor
is it directed at any nation,” U.S. Lieutenant Colonel Kenneth
Hoffman, an Air Force spokesman, said in an e-mailed message.  China last week criticized the exercise as an obstacle to
easing tensions that have increased since the March sinking of
the South Korean warship Cheonan. An international panel blamed
the incident on a North Korean torpedo, which  Kim Jong Il ’s
regime has denied.  Japan and the U.S. joined South Korea in condemning North
Korea’s shelling of Yeonpyeong, rejecting China’s call for talks
and urging the government in Beijing to do more to rein in its
communist ally.  China has “much influence and therefore much
responsibility,” Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the U.S.
Joint Chiefs of Staff, said at a forum of the Center for
American Progress in Washington on Dec. 1. “We need China to
step up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  