-- Obama Says South Korean Trade Accord Is ‘Win’ for U.S. Workers
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-12-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/obama-says-south-korean-trade-accord-is-win-for-u-s-workers.html
President  Barack Obama  said a trade
accord with South Korea is a “win-win” for both countries that
shows the alliance between them is “stronger than ever.”  The trade deal offers “more choices for Korean consumers
and more jobs for American workers,” Obama told reporters in
Washington, a day after the government reported the U.S.
unemployment rate rose to 9.8 percent in November. The deal is
one example of how the U.S. government can “do more to
accelerate the economic recovery and create jobs for the
millions of Americans who are still looking for work,” he said.  The two nations yesterday announced an agreement to change
automobile provisions in the free-trade deal, removing an
obstacle that had prevented agreement on the pact during Obama’s
visit to South Korea last month.  Obama requested the changes in the accord, which was
negotiated during the administration of President  George W. Bush , to meet demands from lawmakers and U.S. automakers
including  Ford Motor Co . regarding Korean barriers to American
vehicles.  Winning the agreement was a key component of Obama’s plan
to double American exports in five years. With almost $68
billion in trade between the nations, the accord would be the
U.S.’s largest since the North American Free Trade Agreement in
1994.  AT&T, Wal-Mart Support  The White House said Dec. 3 the agreement will increase
U.S. exports by as much as $11 billion and support at least
70,000 U.S. jobs. Yesterday it released a compilation of
supportive statements from industry groups and companies,
including  AT&T Inc.  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , and lawmakers from
both major U.S. political parties to bolster Obama’s effort to
win congressional approval of the trade deal.  Under the agreement, both nations will scale back initial
tariff cuts for cars, and South Korea said it would allow more
imports of U.S.-made vehicles that meet American standards
rather than Korean rules. The U.S. will maintain a 25 percent
tariff on truck imports for eight years instead of beginning to
phase it out immediately.  After Obama and South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  failed
to reach agreement during a summit last month in Seoul, trade
negotiators from both nations spent last week huddled at a hotel
in Columbia, Maryland, to resolve their differences on autos,
pork and beef.  While the two sides didn’t announce changes on beef trade,
Obama yesterday said the U.S. will keep trying for “full
access” to the Korean market for beef exports.  The agreement is subject to approval by Congress before
taking effect, and polls show waning public approval for trade
deals. Two other trade agreements with Panama and Colombia, also
signed by Bush administration officials, are awaiting approval
in Congress.  North Korea Tensions  Obama said yesterday the U.S. trade deal with South Korea
was also important amid “increasing tensions on the Korean
peninsula.” North Korea shelled an island in South Korea Nov.
23, killing two soldiers and two civilians. Following the
“unprovoked attack,” the trade deal reinforces the “defense
alliance and partnership” between the U.S. and South Korea, he
said.  Obama also urged Congress to pass legislation extending
jobless benefits, which expired Nov. 30 for thousands of the
nation’s long-term unemployed. The Labor Department has
estimated that aid to 1.36 million Americans will be interrupted
by the end of the third week in December without an extension.  Democrats have put forward a plan to extend jobless
benefits for a year, with the $56 billion cost to be financed
with borrowed money. Republicans have blocked the measure,
demanding the extension be offset with savings elsewhere in the
government’s budget.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  