-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Reaches 3 Percent as European Debt Concern Fades
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-12-04T05:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/treasury-10-year-yield-reaches-3-percent-as-european-debt-concern-fades.html
Treasury 10-year note  yields  rose
above 3 percent for the first time since July as concern eased
that the European debt crisis would spread and most reports
showed the U.S. economic recovery picking up steam.  Government debt maturing in three years and more fell this
week as the Federal Reserve said the economy strengthened in 10
of its 12 regions, as hiring improved, manufacturing expanded
and retailers anticipated stronger holiday shopping. A smaller-
than-forecast gain in November payrolls pushed yields on two-
year notes lower yesterday. The Treasury Department next week
will sell $66 billion in notes and bonds.  “Concerns about the situation in Europe have receded some
and economic data overall has been positive, which translates
into higher rates,”  Michael Pond , co-head of interest-rate
strategy in New York at Barclays Plc, one of 18 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed. “While fundamentals have improved,
there is still lots of uncertainty out there and the Fed
continues to buy relentlessly, which will limit yield rises.”  Ten-year note yields rose 14 basis points to 3.01 percent,
according to BGCantor Market Data after touching 3.04 percent,
the highest since July 28. The price of the 2.625 percent
security maturing in November 2020 fell 1 4/32, or $11.25 per
$10,000 face amount, to 96 23/32. The yield on the 30-year bond
rose 11 basis points to 4.31 percent while two-year note yields
fell four basis points to 0.47 percent.  European Scene  European Central Bank policy makers meeting in Frankfurt
Dec. 2 kept the benchmark interest rate at a record low of 1
percent. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the central bank
will delay its withdrawal of emergency liquidity measures to
combat “acute” market tensions.  Ireland on Nov. 28 became the second country to tap European
assistance, following Greece, prompting a flight to quality amid
speculation that the country’s funding crisis may spread to
Portugal and Spain. The Irish rescue package is worth 85 billion
euros ($114 billion).  The ECB bought Irish and Portuguese government bonds Dec. 2
and yesterday, according to at least four traders with knowledge
of the transactions, reducing concern that the ECB would not
aggressively act to solve the crisis. The ECB also purchased
Greek debt, said another person, who asked not to be identified
because the deals are confidential. Trichet said the bond-buying
program was ongoing.  Good Time  “The timing for these reported bond purchases is
perfect,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “The ECB
is buying in an extremely illiquid year-end market. Its
purchases are always going to move the market in a big way.”  The weekly yield increase for Treasuries came even as U.S.
employers added fewer jobs in November than economists forecast
and the unemployment rate unexpectedly rose.  Payrolls increased 39,000, less than the most pessimistic
projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after a
revised 172,000 increase the prior month, Labor Department
figures showed yesterday in Washington. The jobless rate rose to
9.8 percent, the highest since April, while hours worked and
earnings stagnated.  The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
index, which covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose to 55
last month from 54.3 in October, according to the ISM report
released yesterday. The index of pending home resales gained a
record 10 percent after dropping 1.8 percent in September, the
National Association of Realtors said Dec. 2 in Washington.  Economic News  “The market has seen a lot of good economic news lately
and the jobs report was the first to that bucked the trend of
good economic data,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-
based chief fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased its forecast for U.S.
gross domestic product growth next year to 2.7 percent from 2
percent. The U.S. economy will expand 3.6 percent in 2012,
according to a report sent to Goldman Sachs clients on Dec. 1.  Fed policy makers on Nov. 12 started a $600 billion second
round of asset purchases to support growth in the economy and to
reduce unemployment and avert deflation.  The U.S. central bank bought $37.3 billion in Treasuries
during the week, according to the New York Fed’s website. Next
week it plans four days of purchases.  Fed Lock  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s largest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said the Fed is unlikely to
raise interest rates for several years with employment growing
less than forecast.  “The front part of the curve is the safe part of the
curve” with policy makers forced to keep their target rate near
zero to sustain growth, Gross said yesterday in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . The
difference between 2- and 10-year notes is known as the yield
curve.  The  extra yield  investors pay to hold 10-year notes over
two-year debt widened for a fourth straight day to 2.54
percentage points yesterday, the steepest yield curve since
June.  The 10-year note yield will end the year at 2.64 percent,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
63 banks and securities companies, with the most recent
estimates given the heaviest weightings. The two-year note yield
is expected to end 2010 at 0.5 percent.  Next week’s government debt sales will include $32 billion
of three-year notes on Dec. 7, $21 billion of 10-year securities
the following day and $13 billion of 30-year bonds on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  