-- Red Cross Bans Chronic Fatigue Patients From Donating Blood
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   C o r t e z   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2010-12-04T16:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/red-cross-bans-patients-with-chronic-fatigue-syndrome-from-donating-blood.html
The American Red Cross won’t accept
blood from people diagnosed with  chronic fatigue syndrome  as the
U.S. government works to determine if the disorder is tied to a
transmissible virus, the group said.  The move, announced yesterday on the Red Cross  website ,
follows by almost four months study findings that tied the
condition to an infectious agent called XMRV. More than 1
million Americans have chronic fatigue syndrome, according to
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  The data reported in August was contrary to a report by the
 CDC a month earlier  that failed to find a viral link. The
statement by the Washington-based Red Cross, the nation’s
largest supplier of blood products, reflects an ongoing medical
debate over the syndrome, which is marked by extreme fatigue
after mental or physical exertion, sleep that fails to refresh,
and joint and muscle pain.  “In the interest of patient and donor safety, the American
Red Cross will defer indefinitely any donor who reveals during
the donor interview that they have been diagnosed” with chronic
fatigue syndrome, the group’s statement said. “XMRV infection
has been associated in some studies with prostate cancer and
chronic fatigue syndrome, but at the present time these disease
associations have yet to be confirmed.”  About four million people donate blood through the
nonprofit organization, a volunteer-led relief organization
founded in 1881, according to its  website .  June Recommendation  The Red Cross decision goes beyond a June recommendation by
the AAB, formerly known as the American Association of Blood
Banks, that blood-collecting organizations use donor education
materials to actively discourage potential donors diagnosed with
chronic fatigue syndrome, or exclude them based on a negative
response to the question, “Are you feeling well today?”  “The Red Cross has implemented the AABB recommendations
and has gone further to implement indefinite deferral for donors
who reveal a history of a medical diagnosis,” the Red Cross
said. “There is currently insufficient data to conclude that
XMRV is transmitted through blood transfusion. However, the
National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute Task force is
conducting research to determine the frequency of the virus in
the donor population, whether it is transfusion-transmitted, and
whether recipients become infected and develop the disease.”  There is no widely accepted cure for chronic fatigue
syndrome, and no medicines are approved to treat it, according
to the CDC.  Antiviral Treatment  While antidepressants, behavioral therapy and pain drugs
are given for symptoms of the condition, the latest study
suggested that antivirals, including  Merck & Co. ’s Isentress and
 Gilead Sciences Inc. ’s Viread, be tested for treatment of it.  In that study, published in the Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, almost 90 percent of people studied showed
signs of infection with a group of mouse leukemia viruses.  “There was a dramatic association with chronic fatigue
syndrome, but that’s all it is,” Harvey Alter, senior author
and chief of clinical studies of the department of transfusion
medicine at the  National Institutes of Health , said at the time.
“We have to emphasize we have not proven causality.”  The viruses found are associated with murine-related
leukemia, a form of an infectious agent known to cause leukemia
and other cancers in mice. The study uncovered virus in blood
samples taken from 32 of 37 patients with the syndrome about 15
years ago. A repeat test taken this year on 8 of the patients
found a slightly mutated form of the virus in 7 of them.  Dilemma Created  The  conflict  between that finding and the previous CDC
research creates a dilemma for researchers, Alter, a senior
author of the report, said at the time.  One explanation may be that chronic fatigue syndrome is
caused by a virus in some and not in others, he said. It’s also
possible that people with the condition are more vulnerable to
infections, the researchers said.  “That still has to be sorted out,” Alter said in a
conference call with reporters.  Additional work is under way to make sure investigators are
using the same methods to check for the viruses, and to confirm
the results in a wider and more varied group of patients, the
researchers said.  It was the first time these specific viruses were found in
people or in the blood  supply . Another study of 1,000 blood
donors is nearing completion to see if the virus or antibodies
to it are in the blood supply, Alter said.  The link between chronic fatigue and the retroviruses was
identified previously by a team led by Vincent Lombardi of the
 Whittemore Peterson Institute for Neuro-Immune Disease , in Reno,
Nevada, and published in October in the journal  Science .  Those researchers analyzed the genes in tissue samples
collected from 101 patients with chronic fatigue, and found
evidence of the mouse virus XMRV in 68 of those studied. The
virus was also identified in some prostate-cancer patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  