-- New York Republicans Regain State Senate Majority as Judge Certifies Race
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-12-04T17:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/republicans-regain-new-york-senate-control-as-judge-settles-disputed-race.html
New York  Republicans regained control
of the state Senate after Jack Martins was declared the winner
of a disputed race in Nassau County today by State Supreme Court
Justice Ira Warshawsky, the Associated Press reported.  The ruling gives Republicans at least 32 members in the the
62-seat chamber, with one contest still undecided. Before 2008,
when Democrats won a 32-30 Senate majority, the Senate had been
controlled by Republicans since 1966. Democrats retained a
majority in the 150-seat  Assembly  in the Nov. 2 elections.  The Republican’s victory over Democratic Senator Craig
Johnson strengthens the party’s position in talks to close next
year’s $9 billion  budget  deficit and in the drawing of new
boundaries for lawmakers’ districts.  “The arrogance of one-party rule” in the Legislature hurt
voters during the past two years, Republican Senate Leader  Dean Skelos  of Rockville Centre has said. Democrats used their
majority to push through spending and tax increases with the
minimum number of required votes, and no Republican support.  Senate Republicans elected Skelos as their leader Nov. 29.
Skelos said then he expects to be elected president of the
Senate when lawmakers return to Albany in January. As president,
he would control the Senate’s schedule.  Democrats’ bare majority left them vulnerable to demands of
their own members that helped delay this year’s budget agreement
until four months after the start of the fiscal year. In 2009,
when the Senate was deadlocked at 31-31 after a Democratic
senator temporarily defected to Republicans, $2.9 billion of
revenue bills were stalled for a month.  Pledge for Independence  Before the election, all Senate Republicans and 21 of 32
Democrats signed a pledge to create an independent commission
that would draw lawmakers district lines without favor to any
party or candidate,  according  to NY Uprising, a group promoting
the idea.  “It will be very interesting to see if they honor their
words after the elections,” said  Dick Dadey , director of
Citizens Union, a New York City non-partisan watchdog group. The
commission is needed to break the  practice  of “legislators
choosing their voters instead of voters choosing legislators,”
by drawing district lines to protect incumbents, he said.  In the past, when the Republicans controlled the Senate and
Democrats had the Assembly, “each said to the other, you
redistrict yourself,” said  Ed Koch , the former New York City
mayor and founder of NY Uprising.  Republicans retained control of the Senate after the 2000
Census even though  Board of Elections figures  showed they were
outnumbered by 5.24 million to 3.17 million among registered
voters that year. Since then Democrats’ advantage among
registered voters has  increased  to 5.79 million to 2.91 million.  Republican senators won a majority of the chamber’s  seats 
even as the candidate at the top of their ticket,  Carl Paladino ,
lost to Democrat  Andrew Cuomo  in the race for governor.
Democrats also won races for comptroller, attorney general and
both U.S. senate seats last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  