-- Trichet Keeps Up EU Pressure as ECB Buys Bonds to Calm Investors
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 2010-12-04T09:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/trichet-keeps-pressure-on-eu-as-bond-program-buys-time-to-reduce-deficits.html
European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  challenged political leaders to do more to fix
their budgets as Spain ramped up measures to fight the threat of
contagion.  “We have the same message for all countries -- ‘take all
measures to make next year’s fiscal objectives credible,’” he
told RTL radio in Paris yesterday. Germany said no ad hoc
European Union talks are planned today or tomorrow on the
region’s ongoing sovereign debt crisis.  European finance ministers have spent the past three
weekends locked in talks on how to rescue  Ireland  and stop the
region’s debt turmoil from engulfing Spain. With Spanish bonds
plunging the most in at least 11 years on Nov. 30, the
government is rolling out new deficit-cutting steps just one
week after saying they wouldn’t be needed.  Spain’s Cabinet yesterday raised tax on tobacco and set a
date for a pension overhaul, two days after saying it plans to
raise about 14 billion euros ($18.4 billion) from selling stakes
in the airport operator and lottery company.  “Time has run out; we have been talking for months,”
Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba told reporters,
referring to the pension plan. “We are going to work even
harder to reach agreements.”  Euro region finance ministers are scheduled to meet in
Brussels on Dec. 6 for a regular meeting.  Market Rout  A market rout in the aftermath of Ireland’s bailout forced
Trichet’s ECB into a new wave of bond purchases this week. The
extra yield that investors demand to hold  Portuguese  10-year
bonds over German bunds yesterday fell below 300 basis points
for the first time since August. Ireland’s 10-year yield plunged
30 basis points to 8.2 percent yesterday and the  Spanish  10-year
yield, which hit 5.67 percent on Nov. 30, closed at 5.1 percent.  The latest round of the crisis is forcing leaders once more
to assert their support for the euro.  Trichet said he discussed “an overview of the euro zone,”
including its economy, at a meeting with French President
Nicolas Sarkozy in Paris yesterday. Sarkozy said the euro was
credible and had become “the second global reserve currency,”
the government said in a statement.  “The German government stands behind the euro,” German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said yesterday in Bayreuth, Germany.
“It is fighting for a stable euro and will do everything within
its power” to push other EU countries toward embracing a
“culture of stability” in their public finances.  Options  Options for EU leaders should the crisis worsen include
boosting their 750 billion-euro ($992 billion) temporary rescue
fund or turning it into an asset-buying program, cutting
interest rates on bailout loans or issuing joint bonds for the
16 euro nations.  Trichet himself is putting pressure on EU governments to
increase their crisis-fighting arsenal, indicating yesterday
that the emergency fund could be stocked up. Asked about the
size of the cash pool yesterday, he said that “everything they
do needs to be commensurate to dimension of the challenges.”  “This is true in all domains, qualitative as well as
quantitative,” he said. “They must go as far as possible and
be as effective as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Hertling  at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  