-- Reynders Says Bailout Fund May Be Boosted in Break With Merkel
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-12-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/trichet-challenges-eu-as-spain-unveils-new-budget-cuts-to-fight-contagion.html
Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said the euro region could increase the size of its 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout fund, breaking ranks with
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and France’s  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Reynders told reporters in Brussels yesterday that the
current cash pool could be increased if governments decide to
create a larger fund as part of a permanent crisis mechanism in
2013. “If we decide this in the next weeks or months, why not
apply it immediately to the current facility?”  European officials are under pressure to find new ways to
stop contagion spreading from  Greece  and  Ireland  amid concern
the bailout package may not be large enough to rescue  Spain  if
needed. While Sarkozy and Merkel rejected expanding the fund on
Nov. 25, European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on
Dec. 3 indicated governments should consider just such a move.  The International Monetary Fund also supports boosting the
facility after 2013, Reynders said at the end of a week in which
Belgian  bond  spreads jump to the highest in at least 17 years.  “The IMF is in favor of a larger mechanism,” said
Reynders, who said that the fund didn’t need to be increased
right away. “They are ready to follow the process if we decide
in Europe.”  IMF spokesman Wiliam Murray declined to comment. Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  is scheduled to join a regular
meeting of euro region finance ministers in Brussels tomorrow.  Reynders said ministers will discuss the outlook for
Portugal, which is struggling to quash speculation it will also
need a bailout.  Trichet Challenge  “I said two weeks ago that it’s quite needed for Ireland
to ask for help,” he said. “We need now to find a remedy for
Portugal to see is it necessary or not, but to avoid the
contagion. We will follow that in the next weeks and months.”  Reynders’s comments come as Trichet challenges political
leaders to do more to fix their budgets and stamp out a
sovereign debt crisis that’s ricocheted through European markets
for more than a year. Asked about increasing the size of the
cash pool on Dec. 3, he said that “everything they do needs to
be commensurate to the dimension of the challenges.”  “This is true in all domains, qualitative as well as
quantitative,” Trichet said. “They must go as far as possible
and be as effective as possible.”  A market rout in the aftermath of Ireland’s bailout last
week pushed the ECB into a new wave of bond purchases.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold  Portuguese 
10-year bonds over German bunds on Dec. 3 fell below 300 basis
points for the first time since August after touching 428 basis
points on Nov. 29. Ireland’s 10-year yield plunged 30 basis
points to 8.2 percent on Dec. 3 and the  Spanish  10-year yield,
which hit 5.67 percent on Nov. 30, closed at 5.1 percent.  Contagion  The premium on Belgian 10-year bonds rose to 133 basis
points on Nov. 30.  “The difficulty we have is like other countries in Europe:
we need to solve the problem of contagion coming from Greece,
Ireland and maybe now Portugal,” Reynders said. “We don’t have
any real problem in Belgium for the moment like that.”  The worsening crisis this past week prompted Spain to push
through more measures to trim its budget deficit just one week
after saying such a step wouldn’t be needed.  Spain’s Cabinet on Dec. 3 raised tax on tobacco and set a
date for a pension overhaul. Two days earlier, the government
said it plans to raise about 14 billion euros ($18.4 billion)
from selling stakes in the airport operator and lottery company.  Running Out  “Time has run out; we have been talking for months,”
Deputy Prime Minister  Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba  told reporters,
referring to the pension plan. “We are going to work even
harder to reach agreements.”  EU ministers are hammering out a permanent crisis mechanism
that will be set up in 2013 and would also include a bailout
fund.  “The permanent mechanism must be with a huge amount of
money -- if you don’t organize, you always have speculation if
it is enough for one, two or more countries,” Reynders said.
“For the moment the discussion next week will be about
approving the plan for Ireland and then to have some information
about the situation in Portugal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  