-- Palin `Absolutely' Electable as President, Republican Governor Jindal Says
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   &   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-12-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/sarah-palin-absolutely-qualified-for-2012-republican-says.html
Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  said
that  Sarah Palin  is “absolutely” electable as president, a
topic of debate among Republicans even though she has yet to
announce her intentions for 2012.  “It’s up to her to make the case to voters,” Jindal said
in an interview on “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ” on
Bloomberg Television.  Jindal, 39, was asked about recent comments by  Joe Scarborough , an MSNBC commentator and former Republican
congressman from Florida, who said it was time for Republicans
to “man up” and recognize the former Alaska governor is a
reality TV show star who cannot be elected.  “I think there are several strong contenders,” said
Jindal, who stopped short of endorsing Palin.  Palin, the Republican Party’s 2008 nominee for vice
president, has said that she is considering a campaign for
president in 2012.  Besides Palin, a number of Republican governors and former
lawmakers are already considering presidential bids. Former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , led the “Republican Revolution”
in 1994 when the party gained 52 House seats, said he’s leaning
toward running for president in 2012 and may decide as soon as
February.  Gingrich ‘Inclined’ to Run  “We’re much more inclined to run than not run,” Gingrich,
67, said yesterday on the “Fox News Sunday” program. Gingrich
said  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor, is
“probably the front-runner” in the race for the Republican
nomination while former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  is ahead
“in popularity.” He called former Alaska Governor Palin “a
phenomenon in her own right.”  Jindal said he is “biased towards governors and those
that have run organizations and executives who’ve had to balance
budgets, make tough choices.”  Jindal said he still believes that government bailouts of
financial services firms and automobile manufacturers were a
“mistake,” even though the programs have returned tens of
billions to taxpayers. The Congressional Budget Office said last
week that the Troubled Asset Relief Program will cost taxpayers
about $25 billion -- far less than initially expected.  “When the government’s picking winners and losers, you
have the potential for politics to interfere and determine who
gets the money and who benefits,” Jindal said.  Better Approach  He said a “much better” approach would have been for
government to set broad “rules of the road,” instead of
spending hundreds of billions on the rescue programs that top
officials at the Federal Reserve and the White House said were
necessary to save the U.S. economic system from collapse.  “The government could do more to stimulate the economy by
providing a predictable, transparent environment, not trying to
pick winners and losers,” Jindal said.  Jindal, the son of immigrants from Punjab, India, said he
opposed legislation now before Congress that would grant legal
status to some younger undocumented immigrants.  “It’s a mistake to start with anything other than securing
our borders,” he said. “Let’s secure the borders, and then
let’s move on to the other pieces.”  Immigration Bill  Democrats are pushing to take up the bill, known as the
DREAM Act, in the final weeks of the year. The legislation would
allow people who arrived in the U.S. before age 16 and have
remained in the country for at least five years to gain legal
residency after completing two years of college or military
service.  Asked whether his party might be perceived as anti-
immigrant, Jindal said Republican principles -- the party’s
“core conservative principles” -- are “applicable to people
of all different backgrounds.”  “We talk about the American dream of homeowner, of
building and owning small businesses, offering better education
for all of our children regardless of their geography or zip
code, the idea that it doesn’t matter what your last name is or
where you come from,” he said.  Contrary to reports, Jindal said he would not slash funding
to state college campuses by 35 percent. The governor  reportedly 
told campuses to prepare for state funding cuts of up to that
amount, ranging from $290 million to $500 million.  ‘Do More with Less’  “We have cut higher education by about 4.5 percent,” he
said. “We’re all going to have to do more with less.”  Jindal was seen as a rising star in the Republican Party
soon after becoming the first Indian-American elected governor
in the U.S. in 2007. He emerged as a leading critic of the Obama
administration, refusing to take some of the money earmarked for
his state in the 2009 federal stimulus bill that Obama signed.  His profile dimmed after he was criticized by both
Republicans and Democrats for delivering what some commentators
called a “cheesy” televised response to Obama’s first State of
the Union address last year.  In a new book, Jindal accuses the Obama administration of
leading an ineffective and overly politicized response to the
oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. The White House rejects the
charges.  The July release of the book, “Leadership in Crisis,” was
pushed back five months due to the summer spill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;  Ian Katz  in Washington at   ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  