-- Slim Says He's Focusing on Mining, Real Estate Businesses as Spinoffs Near
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-12-04T17:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/slim-says-he-s-focusing-on-mining-real-estate-as-spinoffs-near.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim , the world’s
richest man, told CNN’s  Larry King  he’s spending his time
concentrating on his mining and real-estate businesses, which
are set to become public companies next year through spinoffs.  “Ï am now focusing in real-estate developments, but mainly
mining,”  Slim said in an interview  on “Larry King Live” which
aired last night. “The other areas of financing and
telecommunications, I follow what is happening, but I am not in
the operations. I am not following the day-to-day things.”  Slim’s holding company  Grupo Carso SAB  plans to spin off
its mining and real-estate units to begin trading separately on
Mexico’s stock exchange on Jan. 3. Shareholders will get one
share of each company for every share of Mexico City-based Grupo
Carso, which also has retail and construction units.  About two-thirds of Slim’s $64 billion in public holdings
comes from his stake in  America Movil SAB , Latin America’s
largest wireless carrier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Slim holds 79 percent of Grupo Carso shares, a stake
worth $11.2 billion.  Through the first nine months of this year, the mining
unit, to be called Minera Frisco SAB after the spinoff, had
 sales  of 5.34 billion pesos ($433 million).  The real-estate division, to be called Inmuebles Carso SAB,
is part of Grupo Carso’s commercial unit along with its retail
properties. That unit had sales of 24.9 billion pesos in the
first nine months of 2010.  In March, Forbes said Slim was the world’s richest person
with an estimated worth of $53.5 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  