-- Spanish Flights Resume as Air Controllers End Strike After Arrest Threat
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2010-12-04T17:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/spanish-flights-resume-as-traffic-controllers-return-to-work-after-strike.html
Air traffic in Spain resumed after
the government declared a state of emergency and threatened to
prosecute controllers whose wildcat strike had crippled aviation
in the nation for a day.  Flights took off from six airports including Madrid and the
Canary Islands as controllers returned to work and Spanish air
space opened in the late afternoon in the face of a government
warning controllers could face prison sentences if they
continued their walk out.  “It will take up to 48 hours for flights to get back 
to normal,” Industry Minister  Jose Blanco  said in a 
telephone interview with CNN Plus, “We have shown that you
can’t play with fire when the interest of the public is at
stake.”  The strike prompted the first state of emergency to be
declared in Spain since the country returned to democracy 32
years ago and may be an indication of labor unrest to come as
the government implements the deepest austerity measures in
three decades in an attempt to slice the euro region’s third-
largest deficit within two years.  “Given the importance of tourism to the Spanish economy
and the fact that all eyes are on Spain right now because of the
financial crisis, the government has had to act swiftly and
firmly to resolve this problem,” Angel Laborda, chief economist
at the Spanish savings bank foundation Funcas, said in a
telephone interview, “A prolongation of this situation would
damage Spain’s image and economy.”  Iberia Resumes Long-Haul  More than 2,800 flights were canceled after the strike
began about 5 p.m. yesterday.  Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA ,
Spain’s largest airline, announced early in the day it would
cancel all of its flights until 6 a.m. tomorrow. British Airways
Plc was among carriers that canceled or delayed flights to and
from Spain.  In the early evening, Iberia said it aims to operate long-
haul flights from Madrid to Latin America and Johannesburg from
midnight Spanish time tonight.  The strike cost airlines about 80 million euros, Europa
Press reported, citing unidentified aviation analysts.  “The controllers who are on strike will be informed in
writing of their responsibilities, and those who disobey may
face prosecution,” Deputy Prime Minister  Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba  said after an emergency cabinet meeting in the late
morning, “This means that if they do not go to work, they would
incur in a crime of disobedience according to the military penal
code and that can mean serious prison sentences.”  Wages  The Spanish military was deployed earlier in the day to
stand in for hundreds of air-traffic controllers who walked out
after wrangling with the government since January when
authorities took steps to cut their average annual pay by 40
percent.  Controllers were paid an average 334,000 euros ($450,000)
in 2008, with 28 of them earning more than 700,000 euros,
Industry Minister Blanco told Spain’s parliament in January. The
wages are the highest in Europe, according to Blanco.  Cesar Cabo, a spokesman for USCA, the union to which 97
percent of Spain’s air-traffic controllers are affiliated, said
on his  Facebook  page that he “sincerely lamented” the
situation and blamed the government for the “aggressive” and
“discriminatory” decree regulating the controllers working
conditions. He didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone today.  On Dec. 3 the government approved a decree extending
controllers’ working hours and limiting overtime and stipulated
that controllers would be subject to medical examinations if
they call in sick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sharon Smyth at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 