-- U.S. Expansion Struggles to Become Broad-Based as Job Growth Lags Behind
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/u-s-expansion-struggles-to-become-broad-based-as-job-growth-lags-behind.html
The U.S. economy is struggling to
achieve a broad-based expansion as companies remain reluctant to
ramp up hiring 18 months after the end of the recession.  The  unemployment rate  rose to seven-month high of 9.8
percent in November as payroll growth slowed to 39,000 from
172,000, a Labor Department report showed yesterday. Hours
worked and earnings stalled, while a record 6.4 million women in
the labor force were without work last month.  The worse-than-projected job numbers followed a recent
series of statistics indicating the economy was picking up
steam. Sales at retailers rose by the most in eight months in
November while manufacturing kept expanding, data this week
showed.  “We haven’t hit escape velocity,” said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania. “We’re approaching it, but the coast is not
clear.” He defined “escape velocity” as consistent economic
growth of 3 percent or more and monthly increases in payrolls of
at least 175,000.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 150,000
increase in November employment, according to the median of 87
economists. The jobless rate, which rose from 9.6 percent, was
forecast to hold steady.  The hesitant recovery means Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his central bank colleagues may press ahead with
their plans to buy $600 billion of longer-term Treasury
securities by the middle of next year.  ‘Validates the Fed’  The jobs report “validates the Fed doing what they are
doing,”  Bruce Kasman , chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in New York, said yesterday.  It also puts pressure on lawmakers to extend tax cuts, put
in place by former President  George W. Bush , beyond their
expiration at the end of this year and to renew aid to the long-
term jobless.  “It’s critically important that we extend tax cuts to the
middle class, the Bush tax cuts and the Obama tax cuts, and that
we not pull the rug out from under the unemployed that are
searching for work, and we extend the unemployment benefits,”
Austan Goolsbee, chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s Council of
Economic Advisers, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  The two-year Treasury note rose yesterday, pushing the
yield down to 0.47 percent from 0.54 percent late on Dec. 2.
Stocks ended higher, extending the biggest weekly gain in a
month, propelled by a rally in shares of energy and metal
producers as commodity prices rose. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  advanced 0.3 percent to 1,224.71 at the 4 p.m. close in
New York.  Not as Weak  The jobs market is not as weak as the November numbers
suggest, said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at IHS in
Lexington, Massachusetts.  “I’m willing to bet a fair amount of money that this
number is going to be revised up,” he said, pointing to recent
declines in claims for unemployment benefits. He put underlying
job growth at about 100,000, roughly the pace of the last two
months.  The Institute for Supply Management also said yesterday
that its  non-manufacturing index , which covers about 90 percent
of the economy, rose to a six-month high of 55 in November from
54.3. A reading higher than 50 signals growth.  Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose
50,000 in November after increasing 160,000 in October, the
Labor Department’s report showed. Employment at service-
providers, which includes governments, increased 54,000.  Factory Payrolls  State and local governments reduced employment by 13,000,
as did  manufacturers . The decline at factories was the biggest
in three months.  New York City, facing a $3.3 billion deficit in next year’s
budget, will cut its workforce by more than 10,000 over the next
year-and-a-half, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s budget office said
Nov. 18. More than 6,200 workers will be fired, and the
remainder of the cuts will be made through attrition, his office
said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  The number of temporary workers rose 39,500 in December,
indicating companies are holding off hiring full-time employees.  “Our clients still are looking for flexibility because
there’s enough uncertainty in the pace of the recovery,”  Tig Gilliam , chief executive officer of Adecco North America, said
yesterday in an interview. The Melville, New York, firm is a
division of Glattbrugg, Switzerland-based Adecco SA, the world’s
largest supplier of temporary workers.  Underemployment Rate  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- held at 17 percent.  “The labor market is capping off a very poor recovery this
year,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “I don’t think we’ll
slide back into job losses, but being stuck in neutral isn’t
good. While consumer spending has normalized, employers are
uncertain about demand going into 2011.”  The report also showed the number of people unemployed for
27 weeks or more increased as a percentage of all jobless, to
41.9 percent, the highest since August.  “It is really ugly right now,” said Anthony Johnson, 27,
of Atlanta, who has been looking for a job since leaving the
Marine Corps, where he was a warehouse clerk, 14 months ago.
“It is so competitive. For every few jobs that come out, so
many people are fighting for that one position.”  100 Applications  Johnson, who has a business degree, says he has put in more
than 100 applications this year and had one interview for a job
that was later filled internally. Some employers say he’s
overqualified, he said.  In an effort to reach out to some of the nation’s largest
employers, Obama met with  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Duke  at the White House on Nov. 29. The meeting is
one of a series of sessions aimed at soliciting the views of
companies, with the goal of spurring the recovery and adding
jobs.  The U.S. Senate is scheduled to vote today on Democratic
proposals to extend a portion of the Bush-era tax cuts before
they expire at the end of the month, Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  said.  Republicans have vowed to block any measure that doesn’t
extend all of the Bush-era tax policies, saying that expiration
of the lower rates for upper-income taxpayers would hurt job
creation.  “Raising taxes during times of economic uncertainty and
instability is the wrong thing to do,” Senator  Orrin Hatch , a
Republican from Utah, said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  