-- UN Aims to Revive Climate Change Talks Amid Rift Between Rich-Poor Nations
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-12-04T23:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/un-envoys-seek-to-revive-stalled-climate-talks-amid-rich-poor-rift.html
United Nations envoys today attempted
to revive progress at stalled climate negotiations, issuing a
draft of the meeting’s possible conclusion aimed at bridging
differences between rich and poor nations  Margaret Mukahanana-Sangarwe, a Zimbabwean who leads a
track of the negotiations that could bring U.S. and developing
nations into a new treaty, issued the document in Cancun,
Mexico, after consulting with delegates in the 193-nation talks.
The paper includes a range of options on how to detail emissions
cuts to be made by industrialized and developing countries.  China, India, Brazil and Venezuela say the discussions are
at risk because Japan, Russia and Canada have refused to sign up
for a second round of cuts to greenhouse gas emissions once the
current ones written into Kyoto Protocol expire in 2012. That
discord may spread to other areas of the talks.  “The outcome hangs in the balance,”  Todd Stern , the head
of the U.S. delegation said yesterday as he arrived in Cancun
for the talks. “We do not know which way it will go yet. We can
get there as long as countries do not seek to become stumbling
blocks, to halt or slow down progress.”  Suggested Conclusion  The new document includes options for developed countries
as a whole to accept an aggregate emissions targets. It urges
them to increase the level of ambition of their greenhouse gas
reduction pledges, which the UN Environment Program said Nov. 23
aren’t enough to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6
Fahrenheit since industrialization).  Separately, two panels set up to defuse the most
controversial issues in the talks made proposals for an outcome
in Cancun. One suggested an emissions target for the U.S.
“comparable” to those given to other developed countries under
the Kyoto Protocol. The other gave options for developing
nations to limit pollution.  The documents were aimed at suggesting possible conclusions
for the talks that senior ministers can examine when they arrive
next week. Leaders including  Hugo Chavez  of Venezuela,  Evo Morales  of Bolivia and  Rafael Correa  of Ecuador plan to attend.  In a meeting after the text was published, delegates from
the European Union, Lesotho and Australia said the text could
help the negotiations move forward. Grenadian Ambassador Dessima
Williams said it’s a step forward, though it has shortcomings.  ‘Lacks Sufficient Ambition’  “This paper lacks sufficient ambition for the urgent
protection of islands and the world in the context of the threat
of climate change” said Williams, who speaks for 43 island and
low-lying nations. “It requires more work.”  Venezuela and Bolivia, threatening to derail the talks, led
a group of Latin American nations saying that any agreement had
to include fresh commitments from rich nations to cut emissions
of the gases blamed for damaging the earth’s atmosphere.
Bolivia’s envoy said the new text isn’t suitable. Venezuela said
it hasn’t had a chance to come to a view yet.  Since last year’s talks in Copenhagen a year ago, envoys
have reined in their ambitions, shooting instead for progress on
protecting forests, verifying emissions cuts and channeling $100
billion a year in climate aid to developing nations.  “I am not concerned at all,” said  Eileen Claussen , a
former U.S. climate negotiator under President  Bill Clinton  who
now is president of the Pew Center of Global Climate Change in
Arlington, Virginia. “The whole issue will be deferred. I don’t
think it will derail anything.”  Copenhagen Rift  In Copenhagen, U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Chinese
premier  Wen Jiabao  were among about 30 leaders who drafted an
informal accord that set goals to reduce emission and promised
to work toward keeping temperature gains to 2 degrees Celsius.
Bolivia and Venezuela were among six nations to reject the deal
because they weren’t consulted.  “There are two scenarios for next week,” said  Martin Kaiser , climate policy expert at Greenpeace. “The worst-case
scenario, but still a likely outcome, is that they will bury the
Kyoto Protocol here. The best-case scenario is that parties can
agree on some building blocks towards a global deal next year,
with a clear timeline and a clear mandate to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in Cancun, Mexico, at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Kim Chipman  in Cancun, Mexico, at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  