-- Wal-Mart, Carrefour Face Temporary Price Controls in Southwest China City
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-04T17:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/wal-mart-among-companies-facing-china-price-controls-update1-.html
The southwestern Chinese city of
Kunming, where  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and  Carrefour SA  have
operations, has imposed temporary price ceilings on daily
necessities to counter  inflation .  Kunming’s government asked five retailers -- three non-
Chinese, one Chinese and one based in Hong Kong -- to report any
price adjustments and give reasons for the changes two days in
advance of making any alterations, the National Development and
Reform Commission’s local branch said on its website yesterday.  Besides the five companies, other food, cooking-oil and
beverage producers are requested to apply for government
approval 10 working days before making price changes, the
statement said.  The city government also imposed temporary price ceilings
on daily necessities in major parts of the city starting from
yesterday to the end of February, according to the statement.
Prices of grain, cooking oil, meat, eggs, milk and noodles are
to be kept at levels before Nov. 17, the statement said.  The city limited retail prices of vegetables, depending on
type, to 40 percent to 100 percent higher than wholesale prices,
the statement said.  “The city’s consumer prices in the first 10 months rose
4.4 percent, the highest among China’s 36 large- and medium-size
cities,” the Kunming government said in the statement, adding
that the new regulations aim at keeping prices stable and
promoting a “harmonious” society amid “strengthening
inflation expectations.”  Cabinet Call  China’s State Council, or the cabinet, said price caps on
“important daily necessities” and production materials will be
used if necessary, according to a statement posted on its
website on Nov. 17 after a meeting chaired by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  China’s accelerating inflation has sent stocks and
commodities sliding on speculation that efforts to curb prices
will cool the world’s fastest-growing major economy. The State
Council’s announcement came after the  Shanghai Composite Index 
extended to 10 percent its decline on Nov. 17 from an almost
seven-month high on Nov. 8.  Officials “will adopt proactive fiscal policies and
prudent monetary policies,” the state-run Xinhua News Agency
said yesterday after a meeting of the ruling Communist Party’s
Politburo. The government had described the monetary stance as
“moderately loose” since late 2008.  --  Huang Zhe ,  Li Yanping  in Beijing. With assistance from
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong. Editors:  John Kohut ,  Robert Valpuesta .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Huang Zhe  in Beijing at 
 Zhuang37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  