-- China Vehicle Sales May Climb 18% in 2007 on Economy
-- Irene Shen
-- 2007-01-22T09:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-22/china-vehicle-sales-may-climb-18-in-2007-on-economy-update3-.html

          
          
             China 's vehicle sales will likely
rise 18 percent this year, as economic growth boosts demand in
the world's second-biggest auto market.  
 Automakers may sell 8.5 million vehicles in China this year,
compared with 7.22 million last year, the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said on its Web site today.  
 China's economy  has grown by average of about 9 percent a
year for the past decade, making vehicle ownership affordable for
more people.  General Motors Corp. (GM) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and other
automakers sold 25 percent more vehicles in China last year, as
sales in the country surpassed Japan's for the first time.  
 ``China's booming property and stock markets have boosted
people's wealth, creating potential consumers for luxury products
like cars,'' said Li Chunbo, an analyst at Citic Securities Co.
in Beijing. ``China is on course to become the world's largest
auto market, as sales growth slows in  North America .''  
 Sales of passenger cars, sport-utility vehicles and
multipurpose vehicles will likely rise to 6.3 million units this
year, while sales of commercial vehicles including buses and
trucks may climb to 2.2 million, the association said.  
 GM, the largest overseas automaker in China, expects to sell
1 million vehicles in the country by next year at the latest,
 Kevin Wale , chairman of its China unit, said on Jan. 7.  
 Volkswagen returned to profit in China, its largest overseas
market, last year, after making its first loss in the country in
more than 20 years in 2005. The German automaker sold a record
711,298 cars on the mainland and in  Hong Kong  last year,
including 81,708 Audi AG sedans.  
 ``Passenger car consumption may grow faster than wider
vehicle sales,'' Li said. ``This will boost overseas investors'
confidence in the local market.''  
 Luxury Brands  
 China's property prices have more than doubled since 2000,
while the benchmark  Shanghai and Shenzhen 300 Index  rose 121
percent last year, boosting the number of millionaires in the
Communist country, as well as luxury car sales.  
 DaimlerChrysler AG, the world's fifth-largest automaker,
sold 32 percent more Mercedes-Benz cars in China last year,
helped by sales of locally made E-class sedans, Beijing-based
spokesman Trevor Hale said on Jan. 12.  
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world's largest maker of
luxury cars, boosted its sales 51 percent in China last year to
36,357 vehicles, including Rolls-Royce and Mini cars. China
surpassed  Japan  as the largest market for Rolls-Royce cars in the
Asia-Pacific region last year.  
 Vehicle sales in the U.S. fell 2.6 percent to 16.6 million
last year, according to Autodata Corp.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        