-- Coca-Cola Shifts Minnick's Marketing Duties to Kent
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2007-01-22T21:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-22/coca-cola-shifts-minnick-s-marketing-duties-to-kent-update1-.html

          
          
             Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world's largest
soft-drink maker, will shift some of outgoing marketing chief
Mary Minnick's responsibilities to recently promoted President
 Muhtar Kent .  
 Kent will oversee marketing for the Atlanta-based company
beginning March 1, Chief Executive Officer Neville Isdell, said
today in an internal memo to employees. Minnick, who was passed
over when Kent was named president and chief operating officer
in December, said last week she will leave in February to pursue
other personal and professional goals in the U.K.  
 The move gives more responsibility to Kent, 54, who is
Coca-Cola's second-highest ranking executive and likely
successor to Isdell. Coca-Cola's strategy and innovation groups,
formerly overseen by Minnick, will report to Isdell.  
 ``As the health of our business continues to improve, the
factors that necessitated the combining of marketing, strategy
and innovation have evolved,'' Isdell, 63, said in the memo.  
 The new structure allows Coca-Cola to ``increase the impact
and effectiveness of the global marketing community, while
preserving the benefits we have captured'' by previously
combining the groups, wrote Isdell, who hasn't said when he
plans to retire.  
 Coca-Cola also said today Marc Mathieu, who previously
oversaw marketing for brands such as Coca-Cola, Sprite and
Fanta, will assume similar duties for noncarbonated drinks
including Dasani and Powerade.  
 Shares of Coca-Cola fell 23 cents to $48.03 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. They increased 20
percent last year, the biggest annual gain since 1997.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        