-- Murdoch's Star India Heads Resign, a Week After CEO
-- Gautam Chakravorthy
-- 2007-01-22T09:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-22/murdoch-s-star-india-heads-resign-a-week-after-ceo-update1-.html

          
          
             Rupert Murdoch's Star Group Ltd. said
two executives in  India  resigned, more than a week after the Hong
Kong-based company's chief executive officer said she will quit.  
 Peter Mukerjea, chief executive officer at Star Group India,
will leave by the end of this month, while Sameer Nair, chief
executive at Star Entertainment India, quits at the end of March,
Star said in an e-mailed statement on Sunday. Michelle Guthrie
announced her resignation as Star Group CEO on Jan. 12.  
 The two executives in India left the company to ``pursue
other business opportunities,'' Jannie Poon, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman for Star Group said in a phone interview today.  
 Paul Aiello, the 42-year-old president of Star Group,
replaces Guthrie, who held the top job for six years, from March
1. The company also loses Mukerjea and Nair, who spearheaded the
Star network's shift to Hindi language and introduced the Indian
version of ``Who Wants To Be A Millionaire.''  
 Star Group, controlled by New York-based  News Corp. (NWS) , split
its Indian operations into two in March. Mukerjea was in charge
of legal, finance and investments of the group in the country,
while Nair was responsible for programming, marketing and new
media including the Internet.  
 ``The transformation of Star India into the leading
television network in the country came in no small part due to
their leadership,'' Aiello said in the  statement .  
 Aiello, a former investment banker at Morgan Stanley, was
also named acting chief executive officer of Star India.  
 Sales of Star India fell by as much as 42 percent in the
past two years, the Economic Times newspaper said on its Web site
on the weekend, without citing a source for the information.
Advertising revenue at its flagship Star Plus channel is likely
to decline to 7 billion rupees ($158 million) in 2006 from 8.3
billion rupees a year earlier, the report said.  
 Closely-held Star doesn't provide details of its financial
operations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gautam Chakravorthy in Mumbai at 
 chakravorthy@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at   cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        