-- Franco-German split overshadows Airbus job cuts
-- By  Marcel Michelson  and  Tim Hepher
-- Tue Feb 20, 2007 10:14am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/20/businesspro-airbus-jobs-dc-idUSL2040550920070220

 

 PARIS  (Reuters) - Airbus faced growing paralysis on Tuesday 
over plans to axe thousands of jobs as French and German 
politicians quarreled over the cuts and Berlin dampened hopes 
of a quick solution at a bilateral summit this week. 


  French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin said he had 
talked with Chancellor Angela Merkel about the problems at 
Airbus and endorsed press reports it wants to cut 10,000 jobs.  He also confirmed on RTL radio that Merkel and French 
President Jacques Chirac would discuss the problems at a summit 
meeting on Friday, as reported by Reuters on Monday.  But Germany said the two leaders would not take any 
concrete decisions that were best left to Airbus management.  Friday's meeting in Berlin is a Franco-German summit, "not 
an Airbus summit," government spokesman Thomas Steg said at a 
regular government news conference in Berlin.  He also dismissed the widespread media tally of 10,000 job 
cuts, apparently confirmed by Villepin, as speculation.  Airbus on Monday postponed its announcement on job cuts 
planned for Tuesday, saying European nations could not agree 
how to share the work on its next aircraft, the wide-body A350.  The cost-cutting plans were originally triggered by delays 
in the company's A380 superjumbo, which drove Airbus into loss 
last year and bled cash from EADS.  Analysts said the restructuring would also shape the 
company's long-term future as it chooses an A350 assembly site.  The plane is needed to help the European planemaker catch 
up with rival Boeing ( BA.N ) which seized top spot in the global 
aircraft market last year for the first time in five years.  French and German newspapers said board members loyal to 
key German shareholder DaimlerChrysler had vetoed the plans 
drawn up Airbus management. DaimlerChrysler declined comment.  Le Figaro talked of a Franco-German "divorce" while Le 
Monde said Airbus was paralyzed by the "egotism of Paris and 
Berlin."
  JOBS SPLIT  The breakdown in the Franco-German consensus -- the latest 
in three years of bickering surrounding Europe's biggest 
aerospace group -- highlights sensitivities in both countries 
over employment and mutual suspicions of protectionism.  Jobs are a key issue in upcoming French elections.  "This company is largely Franco-German, very European and 
there needs to be an equitable distribution of efforts between 
the countries," Villepin said.  German politicians suspect Toulouse-based Airbus's French 
management of forcing German workers to bear a disproportionate 
share of the cuts. Airbus employs 20,000 people in each 
country.  Germany is pushing for more of the cuts to be borne by 
France on a basis of equality, a source close to the talks 
said.  "We need to ensure that the French, who practice a very 
interventionist industrial policy, do not come out of the 
process as the only winners," said Rainer Wend, an economic 
spokesman for the center-left SPD, part of Merkel's coalition.  "The French are fighting for their jobs and their future 
role, and we as Germans cannot and should not settle for 
playing second fiddle," Ditmar Staffelt, SPD member in 
parliament and former government coordinator for aerospace 
issues, said.  Arnaud Lagardere told French newspaper Le Monde that the 
French would defend their interests in Airbus's restructuring 
but pledged not to allow disputes with Germany to worsen.  "Let's end the hypocrisy of saying it's the shareholders 
who are blocking everything over transferring production. If 
they didn't do it, then the blockage would arise elsewhere, at 
the union level or between the governments," Lagardere said.  Lagardere represents a consortium grouping the French 
government's 15 percent EADS stake with his own media group's 
7.5 percent holding. DaimlerChrysler controls 22.5 percent.  Airbus has been haunted by national rivalries since it was 
transformed from a loose consortium into a unit of EADS when 
the aerospace group was created in 2000. Critics say it still 
does not operate like a single integrated company.  Unions in France and Germany say they will defend jobs.  Analysts said EADS shares were supported for now by the 
health of global aerospace demand and signs of interest from 
oil-rich Middle East shareholders such as Qatar's investment 
fund. But several questioned how long that would last.  "Shares continue to trade on shareholding news flow, not 
fundamentals," said Exane BNP Paribas analysts in a note.  EADS shares eased 0.4 percent to 25.75 euros by 1354 GMT.  Barring a breakthrough at Friday's summit, Airbus will be 
under pressure to resolve the row ahead of EADS annual results 
on March 9. Any delay beyond that may conflict with French 
presidential and legislative elections from April 22 to June.  Delaying the restructuring plan indefinitely would raise 
doubts over Airbus's ability to meet its target of saving 2 
billion euros in costs a year, analysts said.  French Finance Minister Thierry Breton said the EADS board 
would meet again in coming days and that he hoped it would 
adopt the restructuring plan as originally proposed by Gallois.  (Additional reporting by  Noah Barkin )