-- Virgin Blue eyes major Boeing order
-- By  Michael Smith
-- Mon Feb 19, 2007 10:40pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/20/businesspro-virginblue-results-dc-idUSSYD34429720070220

 

 SYDNEY  (Reuters) - Australia's Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. 
VBA.AX said on Tuesday it was close to signing an order for 
new Boeing ( BA.N ) planes worth up to US$2.6 billion ahead of 
the launch of long-haul flights to the United States next year. 


  Virgin, the nation's second-largest airline, also firmed up 
orders for new planes from Brazilian planemaker Embraer 
( EMBR3.SA ) as it expands in Australia and the South Pacific.  Virgin, which earlier reported an 81 percent jump in 
first-half profit, at the upper end of analysts' estimates, 
said it expected to sign off on a order for seven Boeing 
777-300ER widebody aircraft within weeks, with options for a 
further six.  Virgin, which had also been considering Airbus ( EAD.PA ) 
A340s, said the orders had a list price of US$2.6 billion. But 
customers often get big discounts on published prices.  The carrier, which is expanding aggressively as it competes 
with larger rival Qantas Airways ( QAN.AX ), also exercised 
options for three Embraer E-190 and three Embraer A-170 planes 
for delivery in 2008/09.  The orders are on top of the 14 Embraer planes it ordered 
last year to be used on routes to islands in the South Pacific.  Virgin shares initially fell almost 7 percent before 
recovering to trade flat at A$2.66 by 0208 GMT.  Analysts said investors were jittery as Virgin ramped up 
its capital spending and ahead of the possible introduction of 
a rival domestic airline by Singapore's Tiger Airways.  "The result was strong and in line with expectations but 
the challenge for Virgin has been accentuated by the proposed 
entry into the market by Tiger," Fabian Babich, an analyst at 
brokerage BBY said.  "Every time Virgin commits additional capital to the 
business the stock price is going to be that much more 
sensitive."  Virgin Blue said net profit for the six months to December 
31 was A$124.3 million ($98 million), compared to A$68.7 
million a year ago.  It also tipped full-year earnings to be more than 60 
percent higher than a year ago on the back of greater 
protection against higher fuel prices and more business travel.  Chief Executive Brett Godfrey said the airline wanted to 
start long-haul flights in the second half of 2008.  He told reporters the new service would be "U.S. centric." 
but was also looking at flying to Asian destinations such as 
Hong Kong and Japan and possibly Canada.  "Don't be surprised if we don't serve the traditional 
markets is all we can say today on it," he said, adding Virgin 
had applied for access rights to fly to the United States.  He also said Virgin was considering launching its own 
low-cost carrier in response to competition from Qantas 
offshoot Jetstar but nothing had been decided.  Godfrey told reporters the Boeing orders were "pretty well 
there" with a formal announcement expected within weeks.  Australian transport group Toll Holdings Ltd. ( TOL.AX ) owns 
a 62.3 percent stake in Virgin Blue which it inherited when it 
launched a takeover for ports operator Patrick Corp.  Godfrey said the company was not currently considering a 
management buyout but did not rule it out if shareholders 
decided they wanted to exit the airline.  Virgin shares have gained more than 40 percent since Qantas 
confirmed it had been approached by a private equity consortium 
in November last year.  Virgin said it had 95 percent of its fuel requirements 
hedged at US$70 a barrel for the rest of the current fiscal 
year.  ($1=A$1.27)