-- ‘My Assets Control Me’ Is Finance 2010: Susan Antilla
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2010-12-30T19:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/-my-assets-control-me-tells-us-about-finance-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
The year opened with  Sandy Weill 
whining in a New York Times  article  that he was horrified to be
depicted as a greedy, out of touch Wall Streeter for jetting to
Cabo on the Citigroup plane weeks after the bank took a $45
billion taxpayer bailout.  The year wound down with financier  Steven Rattner , just
having wrapped up a $6.2 million settlement with the Securities
and Exchange Commission to resolve a pension kickback probe,
harrumphing in November that he wouldn’t be “bullied” by the
New York attorney general’s $26 million lawsuit citing related
allegations. As if anyone was worried that the politically
connected, press savvy former reporter -- who today agreed to
pay $10 million in restitution to New York State -- was at any
risk of getting pushed around.  There was no dearth of silliness, sleaziness or shameless
egomania among those in the financial industry or those who
regulate it over the past year.  Over at the SEC, for instance, porn-watching was so popular
that the agency’s inspector general,  David Kotz , was asked by
Senator  Charles Grassley  for a synopsis of his various smut
probes. Thus, Kotz’s X-rated “summary of pornography-related
investigations” was published this year.  Stock brokers, in turn, earned the usual headlines for
greed. In one case, a former Merrill Lynch broker persuaded the
firm to hire him based on phony pay stubs that he whipped up to
suggest he was a big producer.  Steven Mandala  treated himself to
a red 2006 Ferrari F430 Spider after Merrill gave him a $780,000
loan, didn’t show up to work much, and resigned less than two
months later. He pleaded guilty to two felonies in May and was
sentenced in June to as many as six years in prison for the
scam.  All of the above, though, are but runners-up in this year’s
Seven Deadly Sins derby. The winners are as follows:  -- The Wrath Award, to Jay Korff, former financial adviser
at  Morgan Stanley . Korff didn’t like it when Middlesex,
Massachusetts, Probate Judge Spencer Kagan made a ruling --
subsequently overturned -- that would have cost Korff additional
alimony. Prosecutors said in July that the alimony decision set
off more than three years of harassment and threats to the judge
by Korff from 2007 to 2010. Korff left “bizarre” phone
messages for Kagan, hacked his computer and sent nastygrams
about him to people whose names were in the judge’s computer
address book, according to a press release by the local district
attorney. Korff pleaded not guilty in July to charges of
threatening and stalking.  -- The Greed Award, to  Charles Antonucci , former president
of Park Avenue Bank. Antonucci applied for $11 million in TARP
funds in 2008, falsely telling regulators he’d invested $6.5
million of his personal money in the bank to qualify. Then the
regulators did some checking and found he was dipping into Park
Avenue’s coffers for home-improvement bills, and jetting around
on personal trips -- the Super Bowl and the Master’s Golf
Tournament -- on a co-conspirator’s plane. In October he pleaded
guilty to charges he lied to regulators and embezzled bank
funds. Prosecutors say he was the first person convicted of
trying to defraud TARP.  -- The Sloth Award, to the 60 companies on the Fortune 500
list who haven’t a woman among their directors. The research
firm  Catalyst Inc.  released numbers in December that painted a
pathetic picture of the work being done to beef up women’s roles
at the biggest U.S. corporations. Among those with no women
board members are  Live Nation Entertainment , General Dynamics
and Dollar General.  -- The Pride Award, to Kristin Davis, the  Manhattan Madam 
who did four months at New York’s Rikers Island lockup for
promoting prostitution. Davis, who describes herself on her Web
page as a former vice president at an unnamed hedge fund, claims
to be one of the madams who supplied call girls for former New
York Governor  Eliot Spitzer . She got the 23,000 signatures she
needed to be certified for a run for governor in 2010, but no
permanent ballot spot. She quotes  Abraham Lincoln  on her fate:
“My great concern is not whether you have failed, but whether
you are content with your failure.” Let’s hope she’s content
enough to stick to the call girl business in the next election.  -- The Lust Award, to Michael Lallana, the former
Northwestern Mutual Investment Services field director arrested
in August for allegedly depositing his semen into a female
coworker’s water bottle. In September, he pleaded not guilty to
six misdemeanor counts of releasing an offensive material in a
public place and one count of assault.  -- The Envy Award, to TCW Group Inc. and to its former
chief investment officer  Jeffrey Gundlach . TCW sued Gundlach in
January for allegedly stealing company information to use at
Gundlach’s new firm. Gundlach countersued, saying TCW fired him
to avoid paying him the money it owed him. Too bad they didn’t
stay friends: TCW unearthed a cache of pornography in one of
Gundlach’s offices -- “vestiges of closed chapters” of his
life, Gundlach said in a letter to clients. Now, both Gundlach’s
new firm, DoubleLine Capital and TCW are putting up with a
Justice Department probe into aspects of their split.  -- The Gluttony Award, to  Marcus Schrenker , the former fund
manager who faked a plane crash after regulators began to
investigate him. Schrenker lived the high life with a 10,000-
square-foot home, airplane and a habit of lavish gift-giving
(more than 30 diamonds belonging to his estranged wife were
auctioned to repay investors). By October, he could have been
speaking for many of 2010’s greediest when he apologized to an
Indiana Superior Court judge who sentenced him to 10 years in
prison for fraud. “I let my assets control me,” he said at
sentencing, summing up with precision the sorry state of things
on Wall Street in 2010.  ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Susan Antilla  in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  