-- Labour Leader Miliband Pledges Continued Opposition on U.K. Deficit Cuts
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2010-12-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/labour-leader-miliband-pledges-continued-opposition-on-u-k-deficit-cuts.html
Ed Miliband , the leader of the
opposition Labour Party, pledged to continue opposing the pace
of the government’s deficit-reduction program in 2011, saying
families throughout Britain would bear the consequences.  “We will be arguing for a proper economic strategy rather
than an economic policy reduced only to deficit reduction,”
Miliband said in a New Year’s message published in London today.
“We would have made cuts but the scale, pace and targeting of
these changes is not just wrong, it holds us back from answering
the bigger economic challenges we face: about where the jobs of
the future are going to come from and how can we create an
economy which works for all.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government of
Conservatives and Liberal Democrats is implementing the deepest
spending cuts since World War II, which aim to virtually
eliminate the budget deficit within four years. The plans have
cast a shadow over the prospects for the economy, with consumer
confidence falling to a 20-month low last month.  “Many people feel powerless in the face of these decisions
that will affect their lives, families and communities,”
Miliband said. “The political forces in Whitehall which have
made these choices appear forbidding and unheeding.”  Miliband became Labour leader in September, succeeding
 Gordon Brown , who quit after the party lost elections in May.
The  final YouGov Plc poll this year  for The Sun newspaper put
Labour support at 41 percent, 2 percentage points ahead of the
Conservatives, with the Liberal Democrats at 9 percent, less
than half their share of the vote in May. The poll was carried
out Dec. 22-23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eddie Buckle  in Berlin at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  