-- Adani Said to Win Six Million-Ton Tender to Import Coal for India's NTPC
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y   a n d   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-12-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/adani-said-to-win-6-million-ton-tender-to-import-coal-for-ntpc.html
Adani Enterprises Ltd., India’s
biggest importer of coal, won a contract from State Trading Corp.
of  India  Ltd. to procure 6 million metric tons of the fuel for  NTPC Ltd ., two traders said.  Deliveries of the fuel, which will be sourced from  Indonesia  and  South Africa , will begin by the end of next month,
according to the traders, who declined to be identified because
the bid was confidential.  NTPC awarded a contract to State Trading to purchase 12
million tons of thermal coal on its behalf by the end of March
2013, one of the traders said in September. State Trading will
import the fuel, equivalent to about 27 percent of India’s
thermal coal purchases last year, in two installments for the
years ending March 2012 and 2013, the trader said.  Ahmedabad, India-based Adani, Indore, India-based Bhatia
International Ltd., New Delhi-based Knowledge Infrastructure
Systems Ltd., Dubai-based Coal & Oil Group and Ghumaz Traders,
also based in Dubai, submitted offers, the traders said.  Adani made the lowest offer followed by Ghumaz Traders and
Bhatia International, the traders said.  B. Dutta Majumdar, chief general manager for State Trading,
didn’t answer phone calls to his office seeking comment. Adani’s
spokesman, Devendra Amin, declined to comment.  India’s thermal coal imports rose to 44 million tons in the
year ended March 2010 from 38 million tons a year earlier,
according to data from the nation’s coal ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Archana Chaudhary in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  