-- Air-Traffic Growth Slows on Europe Weather, IATA Says
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-12-30T12:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/air-traffic-growth-slows-on-europe-weather-industry-group-says.html
Air-traffic growth  slowed in
November, led by European carriers as cold weather disrupted
flights toward the end of the month, the International Air
Transport Association said.  International passenger-traffic rose 8.2 percent from a
year earlier, slowing from 10 percent growth in October, IATA
 said  today. The steepest gain this year was in June when traffic
climbed 11.9 percent.  European carriers led by  Air-France KLM Group , Deutsche
Lufthansa AG and  British Airways Plc  saw traffic growth slow to
7.3 percent from 9.4 percent in October, as cold weather that
included the most widespread snowfall in 17 years in the U.K.
caused airport closures and flight cancellations. Eleven-month
global international traffic growth reached 8.5 percent.  “It’s been a very good six to nine months we’ve had now
with capacity not rising too much while passenger traffic has
increased,”  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst with Sydbank A/S in
Aabenraa, Denmark, said in a telephone interview. “But I think
we will see that picture reverse in 2011.”  While passenger volumes are likely to continue growing in
2011, airlines’ earnings will suffer from rising fuel costs and
from more planes entering the market, which puts pressure on
ticket fares, Pedersen said.  ‘Shifting Gears’  Airlines  worldwide may post a 40 percent drop in combined
profits next year, partly because of restrained government
spending in Europe, IATA said Dec. 14.  Air France fell 14 cents, or 1 percent, to 13.59 euros at
1:18 p.m. in Paris. Lufthansa lost 25 cents, or 1.5 percent, to
16.42 euros in Frankfurt. British Airways slipped 0.2 percent to
273.9 pence on the London exchange.  “The industry is shifting gears in the recovery cycle,”
IATA Chief Executive Officer  Giovanni Bisignani  said in today’s
statement. “Growth is slowing toward normal historical levels
in the 5 to 6 percent range. Relative weakness in developed
markets is being offset by the momentum of economic expansion in
developing markets.”  Industrial action in some European countries also weighed
on November growth figures, according to the industry group.  On Nov. 30  Finnair Oyj  cancelled more half its flights, and
 SAS Group ’s Blue1 unit cut more than 20 percent of services as
flight attendants in Finland began a strike in a work-rules
dispute. In the same week, more than 2,800 flights were scrubbed
after Spanish air-traffic controllers abandoned their positions
in protest over changes in pay and working conditions, shutting
the country’s air space.  Mexicana Failure  “The impact of these will continue to be seen in
December’s traffic,” IATA said today.  North American airlines saw a 9.5 percent growth in
November traffic from a year earlier, slowing from 12.4 percent
growth in October. Traffic at Asia-Pacific region carriers rose
5.8 percent, down from 7.3 percent the previous month.  Latin American traffic fell to almost zero growth from 4.9
percent in October, hurt by the failure of Grupo Mexicana de
Aviaciaon SA, the carrier that filed for bankruptcy protection
in August, IATA said.  Middle Eastern carriers recorded a 16.7 percent increase in
traffic, the fastest pace among all regions. Growth still slowed
from 17.8 percent in October.  Cargo-traffic growth slowed for a sixth consecutive month
to 5.4 percent, down from the 34 percent peak in May and below
October’s 14.5 percent gain, IATA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  