-- Airlines Say Most Storm-Stranded Travelers on Way Home
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-12-30T22:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/airlines-say-most-storm-stranded-passengers-in-u-s-booked-on-flights-home.html
  Delta Air Lines Inc .,  JetBlue
Airways Corp . and other U.S. carriers say they’ve rebooked most
of the passengers stranded by the worst December snowstorm to
hit  New York City  in six decades.  Delta, which canceled 3,000 flights with about 250,000
passengers, has rescheduled almost all and will carry more than
90 percent of them to their destinations by the end of today,
said  Anthony Black , a spokesman for the Atlanta-based carrier.  About 8,200 flights were canceled because of the snowstorm
that began last weekend, affecting as many as 1.2 million
travelers, many of whom criticized airlines for not keeping them
better informed. All three major airports in the New York area
were closed for portions of Dec. 26 and Dec. 27 amid the city’s
heaviest December snowfall  since 1948 .  “Most passengers have already been re-accommodated, and
we’ll have north of 90 percent of them cleared today,” said
Delta’s Black. “The big issue right now is people traveling to
destinations where we only fly a couple times a day and there’s
only a finite number of seats to that city. Those people might
take a little longer.”  JetBlue, which has its main hub at Kennedy, hopes to re-
accommodate most of its travelers by the end of the weekend,
said Jen Carrillo, a spokeswoman for the New York-based carrier.
JetBlue canceled about 40 flights today, down from 120
yesterday.  United Continental    AirTran Holdings Inc ., which agreed to be bought by  Southwest Airlines Co . in September, added one extra flight each
to New York’s LaGuardia, Boston and Milwaukee on Dec. 28 and the
“vast majority” of stranded passengers have already arrived at
their destinations, said Christopher White, a company spokesman.  Rescheduling passengers was a challenge for airlines
because planes in the U.S. are already flying about  90 percent
full  on the busiest holiday travel days. That’s the highest
level since World War II after airlines cut capacity by 9.1
percent in the past five years.  Most  United Continental Holdings Inc . passengers flying
with the United unit are “home or on their way home” by today,
said Rahsaan Johnson, a spokesman. The Chicago-based carrier
added an extra flight with a Boeing 747 jumbo jet, which can
hold 370 passengers, from  Los Angeles  to New York, he said.  Christen David, a spokeswoman for the Continental unit
whose hub is at  New Jersey ’s  Newark  airport, didn’t have
information available about its recovery effort. United and
Continental merged in October to leapfrog Delta as the world’s
largest carrier.  ‘An Entire Week’  Continental’s response to the snowstorm frustrated Suzanne
Paola, a professor at Western  Washington  University, who has
been stranded in Newark since the carrier canceled her Dec. 28
flight. She and her husband spent hours on the phone and at the
airport to get rebooked, only to be told Continental couldn’t
fly them and their 13-year-old son back to  Seattle  until Jan. 3.  “That’s almost a whole week. How is it possible they had
nothing for an entire week?” said Paola, 54. The family is
trying to get back to Seattle before Jan. 1 to pick up a Korean
exchange student who is arriving that day.  Delta had available seats on a flight leaving at 6 a.m. on
Jan. 1, so Paola spent $570 each for those new tickets.
Continental offered to refund half the fare for her original
tickets, or about $244 each, she said.  Lost Revenue  The storm may have cost the airlines about $150 million in
revenue from some passengers canceling trips altogether, others
needing rebooking and the loss of last minute walk-up passengers
who typically pay the highest fares, estimated  David Swierenga ,
president of aviation consultant AeroEcon in Round Rock,  Texas .
His estimate assumes an average round-trip fare of $300 per
person and about 150 passengers per plane.  In February, when a snowstorm shut the Washington, D.C.,
airports for several days, Delta said it incurred net costs of
$30 million from 7,000 canceled flights. The storm reduced
revenue by $65 million, while fuel and labor savings were $35
million, Delta said.  The savings from not operating aircraft during storms and
flying planes as full as possible during the recovery period
usually offset much of the cost, said Robert Mann, owner of
airline consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington,  New York .  Tim Omaggio, a Morristown, New Jersey, father whose
daughter was scheduled to fly from Newark to Phoenix on Dec. 28,
said he understood the challenge the airlines faced in balancing
passenger demands with uncontrollable weather conditions.  He filed a complaint with Continental, though, after being
unable to get help from airline employees at the airport or on
the phone.  “They should have called everybody they could to be on-
site at Newark,” he said in an interview. “There were so few
employees there that you literally would look around and there
was no one you could even ask anything. If you did find
somebody, they really had no idea what was going on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net . 