-- Anadarko Reaches Mid-2008 High on Report BHP May Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2010-12-30T21:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/anadarko-reaches-highest-since-june-2008-on-report-bhp-may-bid-for-company.html
  Anadarko Petroleum Corp ., which owns
a share of the BP Plc well that caused the biggest U.S. offshore  oil spill , surpassed a two-year high in New York trading after
a U.K. newspaper reported that  BHP Billiton Ltd . may make a
$90-a-share bid for the company.  Anadarko rose $4.86, or 6.9 percent, to $75.59 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:08 p.m., the largest gain
of any company in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the
highest close since June 2008. BHP, the world's largest mining 
company, rose 40 cents, or 0.9 percent, to A$45.85 in Sydney.
The Daily Mail reported the planned bid, without saying where
it got the information.  BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  is
“desperate” to complete a successful acquisition, the London-
based newspaper said, citing failed deal efforts in recent
months.  Anadarko call options traded actively following the
article. Almost 93,000 calls to buy the stock changed hands, 14
times the four-week average and four times the number of puts to
buy, as of 4:10 p.m. in  New York . The most active contracts were
January and February $80 and January $85 calls, which accounted
for about 40 percent of all volume.  Macondo Well  Some analysts doubted BHP would acquire Anadarko, partly
because of Anadarko’s role as a U.S. partner in the damaged Gulf
of Mexico well. Before today, Anadarko had dropped 4 percent
since the April explosion at the Macondo well killed 11 and
triggered the oil spill.  “I would find it strange that the BHP board would advance
a dollar figure out there like that or talk about a takeover of
Anadarko with more or less an open-ended liability associated
with claims from Macondo,” Curtis Trimble, an analyst at MKM
Partners in Houston, said in a telephone interview.  Anadarko’s board of directors would consider $90 per share
too low, said Trimble, who rates the shares at “neutral” and
owns none. BHP’s “substantial” capital could fund production
from Anadarko’s exploration assets, elevating their value, he
said.  Appetite for Acquisitions  BHP abandoned a plan with Rio Tinto Group in October to
create the world’s largest iron-ore exporter in  Australia , and
in November scrapped a bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan. The
Melbourne-based company may now pursue energy acquisitions and
could target Anadarko, Credit Suisse Group analysts wrote in a
Nov. 17 report.  Ruban Yogarajah, a London-based spokesman for BHP, and  John Christiansen , a spokesman for The Woodlands, Texas-based
Anadarko, declined to comment on the Daily Mail report.  Media reports have previously prompted market speculation
about a BHP attempt to acquire Anadarko. On Sept. 2, Anadarko
climbed 3 percent after the Australian newspaper said BHP may be
interested in the company, citing “a senior figure in the
global energy industry.”    Scott Hanold , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said today
in a note to investors that the latest newspaper report didn't
specifically refer to any credible source.  “We are not aware of any information to support the merit
of such a transaction,” Hanold wrote.  Anadarko has a 25 percent stake in BP’s Macondo well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 