-- Asian Stocks Fluctuate as Japanese Exporters Fall, Commodity Shares Climb
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 2010-12-30T10:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/asian-stocks-fluctuate-as-japanese-exporters-fall-commodity-shares-climb.html
Asian stocks  fluctuated as the
dollar weakened to a seven-week low against the yen, damping the
outlook for Japanese export earnings. Commodity companies rose,
driving the MSCI Asia Pacific Index to a fourth straight gain.  Toyota Motor Corp., a Japanese carmaker that counts North
America as its biggest overseas market, declined 0.9 percent in
Tokyo. Nintendo Co., a Japanese maker of video-game machines,
dropped 2.4 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest
mining company, increased 0.9 percent in Sydney.  Newcrest Mining
Ltd. , Australia’s largest gold producer, climbed 0.5 percent.  “The yen’s appreciation will hang over the market,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million in Tokyo at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “I don’t think people are
rushing to sell stocks to lock in profits, because there are
strong expectations that stocks will rise next year.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.3 percent to 137.38 at
7:40 p.m. in Tokyo, with about five stocks declining for every
four that advanced. The gauge has climbed 14 percent this year
and is on course for its highest closing level since June 2008
on speculation that growth in corporate profits will weather
Europe’s debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb inflation and
concern about the pace of the U.S. economic rebound.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 1.1 percent, the most
this month. South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 0.4 percent, and
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.1 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index and China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  both
gained 0.3 percent.  Asia-Pacific Indexes  China’s index has fallen 16 percent this year, the biggest
decline among benchmark equity gauges for the world’s 15 largest
stock markets. Among the steepest gains worldwide in 2010, key
indexes have risen 46 percent in Indonesia, 41 percent in
Thailand and 38 percent in the Philippines.  Today was the year’s last trading day in Japan, Indonesia,
Malaysia, the Philippines, South Korea and Thailand. Markets
close early tomorrow in Hong Kong, Australia and Singapore.
Tokyo, Sydney and Shanghai markets will also be closed on Jan.
3.  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 0.1
percent today. The index gained 0.1 percent yesterday, led by
energy companies as crude oil remained above $90 a barrel for a
fifth straight day.  All 10  industry groups  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index have
risen this year, led by industrial, energy and material
companies. Material producers climbed the second-most today,
while the group that includes Japanese carmakers and electronics
companies was  little changed .  Toyota, Honda, Nintendo  Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and Nintendo were among the
 heaviest drags  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Toyota, the
world’s biggest carmaker, dropped 0.9 percent to 3,220 yen.
Honda, an automaker that receives 43 percent of its revenue from
North America, slid 1.2 percent to 3,215 yen. Nintendo, the
world’s largest maker of portable video-game machines, lost 2.4
percent to 23,830 yen. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s largest publicly traded bank, retreated 1.4 percent.  The dollar fell for a ninth straight session against the
yen to as low as 81.29, the least since Nov. 9. A weaker dollar
reduces the value of U.S. income at Japanese companies when
converted into their home currency.  The yen has averaged 87.80 per dollar this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s headed for its strongest
annual average level since currencies began trading freely in
1971, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and based on each
day’s closing price.  Yearly Gains  “People are selling stocks because they are worried the
yen will strengthen further while the Japanese market is closed
for several days,” said  Hideo Arimura , who helps oversee about
$2.2 billion in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index is on course for its seventh
annual gain in eight years. Stocks in the Asian benchmark were
valued at 14.9 times  estimated earnings  on average at the close
yesterday, more than the 14.8 times for the S&P 500 and 12.5
times for the Europe Stoxx 600 Index. The S&P 500 has climbed 13
percent this year, and the Stoxx 600 has increased 11 percent.  Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore oil producer, climbed
to an intraday  record  today in Hong Kong and surged 49 percent
in 2010. BHP increased 6.3 percent this year.  BHP rose 0.9 percent to A$45.85 today in Sydney and was the
biggest support for the MSCI gauge both today and for the year.
Newcrest gained 0.5 percent to A$41. PetroChina Co., nation’s
biggest oil and gas producer, advanced 0.7 percent to HK$10.06.  Commodities Advance  The  London Metal Exchange Index  of six metals including
copper and aluminum gained 0.9 percent yesterday to the highest
level since May, bringing the gauge to a 21 percent advance this
year. Gold rose for the third straight day yesterday and oil
traded near $91 a barrel in New York. Oil futures are up 15
percent this year, and gold has surged 29 percent, heading for
the 10th straight annual gain.  HTC Corp. , the world’s largest manufacturer of handsets
using Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp. operating systems, has
soared 157 percent in 2010, leading gains on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Information Technology Index, which has risen 15 percent
year-to-date. The company said on Oct. 29 that fourth-quarter
sales may reach a record.  NHN Corp. , the operator of South Korea’s biggest Internet-
search engine, climbed 4.1 percent to 227,000 won today, the
highest close since May 2008. The shares gained on speculation
the market for online advertising will expand faster than
previously anticipated next year and ahead of the company’s
planned sale of its “Tera” game, said Min Kim, an analyst at
Hyundai Securities Co.  Toyota  has tumbled 17 percent this year, hurt by the
strengthening yen and a record auto recall related to unintended
acceleration. The stock has been the heaviest drag on the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 