-- Thatcher Used Ending of Iranian Embassy Siege to Plead for U.S. Hostages
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-12-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/thatcher-used-ending-of-iranian-embassy-siege-to-plead-for-u-s-hostages.html
Margaret Thatcher  tried to use the
political capital gained from the successful ending of a siege
of Iran’s embassy in London to persuade  Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini  to release U.S. hostages held in Tehran, secret British
files from 1980 show.  The government documents, released by the National
Archives after 30 years, show how Middle Eastern diplomats in
London continued to debate whether to attempt to intervene in
the six-day siege, unaware that Special Air Service soldiers
were already  storming the building , which had been seized by
Iranian dissidents on April 30.  While the successful SAS raid, in which 19 hostages were
freed, helped build Thatcher’s reputation as an uncompromising
leader, in private she took a conciliatory tone with Khomeini,
Iran’s supreme leader. She asked that he order the release of
the American hostages “as a gesture of goodwill to the brave
men who risked their lives to free the Iranian hostages.”  Other documents released today reveal Thatcher’s conviction
that Bank of England Governor  Gordon Richardson  was blocking her
economic policy, British diplomats’ vision of a  Ronald Reagan 
presidency, and Foreign Secretary  Peter Carrington ’s insistence
that notes to him be printed on pink paper.  The May 5 storming of the Iranian embassy, in the course of
which five terrorists were killed for the loss of one hostage,
was carried live on primetime British television and secured the
future of the SAS, the army’s elite special-operations unit.  ‘Lower the Temperature’  The previous day the U.K. had urged Arab diplomats in
London to intervene with the hostage-takers “to lower the
temperature.” That proposal was still being discussed at 7 p.m.
on May 5 when the terrorists pushed the corpse of a hostage out
of the door of the embassy.  A half-hour later, when the Syrian ambassador rang the U.K.
Foreign Office to say the Arab meeting had ended, an official,
listening to “explosions, gunfire and screams” down a phone
line from the scene of the siege, told him he was too late.  At the time, 53 staff at the U.S. embassy in Tehran had
been held hostage by Islamic students and militants for five
months. Two weeks earlier, a U.S. attempt to rescue them had
failed with the death of eight American soldiers. The records
show Carrington and other European diplomats urging the U.S. at
the time against further military rescue efforts.  Instead, Thatcher followed up the lifting of the siege in
London by sending John Green, Britain’s ambassador to Iran, back
to the country bearing a personal message from her to President
 Abolhassan Bani-Sadr . Green told Bani-Sadr the Americans weren’t
aware of the U.K. approach and offered to visit Khomeini himself
“to plead with him.”  Repair Costs  The pleas came to nothing, and instead relations with Iran
turned to wrangling over who should pay the estimated 790,000
pounds (then $1.85 million) to repair damage done to the London
embassy during the raid.  Meanwhile, the Foreign Office began to prepare for possible
requests from foreign governments to lend them the SAS. It was
agreed that the elite forces would need a “pro-forma
agreement” offering “immunity from prosecution and all claims
in the event of causing casualties.” The archives show
wrangling between the Foreign Office and the defense ministry
about which department should bear the cost of such operations.  As the 1980 U.S. election approached, U.K. diplomats had
their doubts about whether Reagan, the frontrunner at the start
of the year, could last the course.  “At his age a faster pace will be more difficult,” one
wrote, adding that Democrats had told him  George H.W. Bush  would
“likely turn out to be a much tougher competitor than Reagan.”  Ambassador Nicholas Henderson, in a note to Carrington,
summed up Bush as “a man with many of the qualifications for
the presidency and without any overriding flaw. He cannot be
described as outstanding in character or intellect.”  ‘Egregious Errors’  In a Feb. 8 note on Reagan, an official, Stephen Wall,
noted the candidate had just turned 69 and highlighted his
“slips of the tongue” and “more egregious errors,” such as
the suggestion “that the proper response to the Soviet invasion
of Afghanistan should be a new U.S. blockade of Cuba.”  Through the files, the consistent concern about Reagan was,
in Henderson’s words, “whether he possesses the mental vitality
and political vision” to govern. Descriptions include “caveman
approach to foreign and defense policy,” “not an original
thinker,” and “not a great man for detail.”  In May, Wall concluded of Reagan that “properly briefed,
he would hold his own, e.g. in meetings with his fellow Western
heads of government. He might not be a great president, but he
would be a competent president.”  On foreign policy, Wall said, “Reagan will not look for
confrontation. He is not trigger-happy.”  The archive also offers insights into ministers’ working
practices. In February, Carrington complained that “few of his
briefs conform to the instructions set out in Circular Home ‘B’
52/79 of May 30 last year.”  This specified that “points to make” be in the form of
“a staccato checklist on one side of one sheet of pink paper.”
The foreign secretary found the format easier to read in a
hurry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 