-- Thatcher Accused BOE Head Richardson of Blocking Her Policy, Archive Shows
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-12-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/thatcher-accused-boe-head-richardson-of-blocking-her-policy-archive-shows.html
Margaret Thatcher  had an
“appalling” relationship with Bank of England Governor  Gordon Richardson , accusing him of obstructing her economic policy and
fueling inflation, records of meetings in 1980 show.  Previously secret government documents released by the
 National Archives  in London today show that the prime minister,
then in office just over a year, returned from a vacation in
Switzerland having “talked to a number of bankers” who told
her “British money supply was out of control, that her strategy
was right, but that it was not being properly operated.”  At a Sept. 3 meeting,  Charles Goodhart , an official at the
central bank, told her capital markets weren’t functioning and
banks had to be allowed to increase corporate lending “or many
more businesses would go bust.” According to her private
secretary, Michael Pattison, Thatcher responded that “this
confirmed comments from her Swiss friends that the bank was
simply unwilling to implement government strategy.”  The record of the “stormy meeting” illustrates the style
of dealing with opposition that earned Thatcher, now 85, her
“Iron Lady” nickname. Elsewhere in the archive are the
thoughts of British diplomats on the prospect of  Ronald Reagan 
becoming  U.S. president and discussion of the possibility of
lending special combat forces to foreign countries.  Thatcher took office in May 1979, and in the April 1980
budget, Chancellor of the Exchequer  Geoffrey Howe  set a
multiyear target for money supply, part of an effort to reduce
inflation.  Retail-price  inflation hit 21.9 percent, a four-year
high, that month. As the year progressed, it became clear that
the government would miss its money-supply target.  ‘Sabotaging Her Program’  In August, during her vacation, Thatcher met  Karl Brunner ,
a Swiss advocate of monetarist economics. “He effectively said
that the Bank of England doesn’t know what it’s doing, and Mrs.
T was left with the impression that the bank might even be
sabotaging her program for some reason,” Goodhart, now 74 and a
professor at the  London School of Economics , recalled in an
interview. “She came back breathing fire and fury.”  Richardson, Thatcher’s first central-bank governor, was
summoned to the prime minister’s office at 10 Downing Street.  “We knew nothing about the Swiss jaunt,” Goodhart said.
“I think the governor found her a tiresome woman. He didn’t
like being interrupted. He suddenly found himself on the
receiving end of a tirade.”  Richardson, who died at age 94 in January this year, didn’t
get a third period as governor when his term expired in 1983. He
was replaced by  Robin Leigh-Pemberton .  Lessons for Cameron  Goodhart said he sees lessons from Thatcher for the current
conservative prime minister, David Cameron, now in his first
year in office and trying to implement an economic package that
has prompted riots against increases in student tuition fees.  “Thatcher was prepared to put through a set of policies
that were pretty tough,” Goodhart said. “Her own toughness
meant people accepted them pretty easily, because they knew they
couldn’t change them. And that changed expectations.”  That toughness was already being tested in 1980. The
records show that in March she told her press chief,  Bernard Ingham , that she was “attracted by the idea of a campaign built
on the good news concept -- good sense, good use, good business,
good times.”  The following week, Ingham sent Thatcher a memo explaining
why this was a bad idea. “The truth is that 1980 is not going
to be a good year in material terms,” he wrote. “Economically,
it is going to be a hard and difficult year.”  Savings had to be found where they could. The Treasury
explained that the sixpence coin, a relic of Britain’s pre-
decimal currency also known as the “tanner,” should be
withdrawn because the value of the metal in it was higher than
the face value of the coin, and the step would raise as much as
3.5 million pounds (then $8.3 million).  Thatcher scrawled her view at the top of the memo: “There
will be headlines about the end of the tanner -- but for 3.5
million pounds it will be worth it. MT.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  