-- Australia’s Gillard Tours Flood-Stricken Queensland
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-12-31T00:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/australia-s-gillard-to-visit-flood-stricken-areas-abc-says.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is in Queensland to assess damage in areas stricken by
floods, which forced residents from homes and halted mining.  “This is a natural disaster across Queensland,” Gillard
said in a televised news conference from the town of Bundaberg.
“This, of course, is still unfolding.”  Cost of the damage from the floods is still being assessed
and will depend on how quickly the waters recede, Gillard said.
Suncorp Group Ltd., an Australian insurer and lender, said it
has received about 1,450 claims since Dec. 24 and a cost
estimate will be provided when claims in the affected areas are
assessed.  “Claims numbers are expected to increase as waters recede
and customers return to their homes,” the Brisbane-based
insurer said in a statement today.  Towns in Queensland, inundated by weeks of rain, have been
cut off by water and thousands of people have been evacuated.
Mines have shut, crops have been destroyed, rail lines have been
cut and companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd .,  Xstrata Plc ,  Rio
Tinto Plc  and  Peabody Energy Corp . said they may not be able to
fulfill contracted deliveries because of circumstances beyond
their control.  Eleven sites in Queensland remain under a flood warning
today, according to Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology. The
bureau said showers and storms are forecast to continue across
the region until at least Jan. 5. Queensland Premier  Anna Bligh 
said yesterday she expects the flooding damage will be in the
billions of dollars.  Evacuations Continuing  “There are still people being evacuated from Emerald,”
Chantelle Rule-Murphy, a spokeswoman at Queensland Emergency
Management, said in a phone interview today. Emerald, with a
population of  11,000 , is about 800 kilometers (500 miles)
northwest of the Sunshine Coast.  “A dire situation is emerging in Emerald,” Bligh said
today at the news conference with Gillard.  Gillard said she cancelled plans to visit Emerald after it
became evident  aviation fuel  there was needed by rescuers. She
said she’ll visit the town of Rockhampton, near the eastern
coast, later today.  Rule-Murphy said 1,291 people had been registered as having
evacuated in Emerald, with about 400 staying in evacuation
centers including the town hall. The rest are staying with
family or friends, she said. Condamine, with a population of 82
southeast of Emerald, has been totally evacuated, Rule-Murphy
said.  Theodore Evacuation  The town of Theodore, with 300 residents, yesterday became
the first entire town to have been evacuated in Queensland
because of floods.  The flooding comes after  Australia  had its wettest
September-to-November spring on record. The last time
Queensland’s Bowen Basin, where many of the affected mines are
located, was hit with similar weather in 2008, coal tripled to a
record $300 a ton, driving up the price of steel used in cars.  Gillard will likely visit the town of Bundaberg, which has
been cut in two by the worst flood in almost 40 years, ABC Radio
said.  Before the recent rain, Queensland had its wettest spring
since records began in 1900, receiving 248.2 millimeters (9.77
inches) of rainfall, almost triple the state’s average long-term
mean of 84.3 millimeters, according to the bureau.  Biggest Coal Producer  Australia is the biggest producer of coal used in
steelmaking, contributing more than 40 percent of the global
seaborne trade, according to Deutsche Bank AG. Queensland is the
country’s biggest coal exporter.  The disruption in coal deliveries may lift global prices
for the fuel, said  James Rollyson , a Raymond James Financial Inc.
analyst in Houston. The benchmark price for metallurgical coal
was $209 a metric ton for a three-month contract that started
Oct. 1, Kobe Steel Ltd. said.  The flooding may mean weather-damaged wheat and chick pea
crops that have yet to be harvested in southern Queensland will
be left in the fields, Wayne Newton, grains president of farmer
group Agforce, said this week from Dalby. Some recently planted
cotton and sorghum crops were under water, he said.  Cotton Australia estimates about 7,500 hectares of the crop
planted near Theodore in the state’s east have been destroyed,
Communications Manager David Bone said this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  