-- BHP Billiton May Make Offer for Anadarko, Daily Mail Reports
-- B y   C h r i s   P e t e r s o n   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2010-12-30T17:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/bhp-may-make-90-a-share-bid-for-anadarko-mail-says-correct-.html
  BHP Billiton Ltd ., the world’s
largest mining company, may make a $90-a-share bid for  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp ., the Daily Mail reported, sending Anadarko
shares to a two-year high.  BHP Chief Executive Officer Marius Kloppers is
“desperate” to complete a successful acquisition, the London-
based newspaper said, citing abandoned deals with Rio Tinto
Group and Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan in recent months. The
Mail didn’t say where it got its information on a potential bid.  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, climbed as much as
8.2 percent to $76.50 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, the highest intraday price since June 30, 2008. The
stock traded at $74.69 as of 12:09 p.m. local time. BHP closed
little changed at 2,614 pence in  London .  BHP scrapped a plan with  Rio Tinto  in October to create the
world’s largest iron-ore exporter in Australia, and in November
ended a bid for Canada’s Potash Corp. The Melbourne-based
company may now pursue energy acquisitions and could target
Anadarko, Credit Suisse Group analysts said in a Nov. 17 report.  Ruban Yogarajah, a London-based spokesman for BHP, and John
Christiansen, a spokesman for Anadarko, declined to comment on
the Daily Mail report.  Anadarko is BP Plc’s U.S. partner at the Macondo well in
the Gulf of Mexico, where an explosion in April killed 11
workers and triggered the biggest U.S. offshore oil spill.
Before today, Anadarko had dropped 4 percent since the incident.  On Sept. 2, Anadarko shares advanced 3 percent after the
 Australian  newspaper said BHP may be interested in the company,
citing “a senior figure in the global energy industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Chris Peterson  in London at 
 cpeterson@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 