-- Canada to Require Larger Warnings on Cigarette Packs
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-30T21:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/canada-plans-to-mandate-new-larger-health-warnings-on-cigarette-packages.html
Canada plans to require companies to
increase the size of tobacco  health warnings  so they cover 75
percent of the surface of cigarette packs, Health Minister Leona Aglukkaq said.  The warnings, which currently cover 50 percent of the
package, now will feature individuals’ stories and be changed
regularly so they remain effective, Aglukkaq said today at a
press conference in Ottawa. The new warnings will also feature a
help-line number to encourage smokers to quit.  “Today’s tough new anti-tobacco measures are another step
in our measures to assist Canadians in quitting smoking and
discouraging teenagers and young adults from starting,”
Aglukkaq said.  In 2001,  Canada  was the first country to put graphic
cigarette warning labels on packages, said Rob Cunningham, a
senior policy analyst with the Canadian Cancer Society. With the
new measures, the health warnings will be the world’s biggest
after Uruguay’s 80 percent, he said.  “Smokers are entitled to the truth and these warnings will
tell the truth,” Cunningham said today in a telephone
interview. “There’s a mountain of evidence that shows that
picture warnings work; larger warnings are more effective than
smaller warnings.”  In the U.S., cigarette makers will have to put images such
as diseased lungs and oxygen masks on packages starting in 2012.  Smoking Habits  About 18 percent of Canadians smoked in 2008 and the
prevalence was the highest -- 27 percent -- among people 20 to
24, according to a  report  by the University of Waterloo’s Propel
Centre for Population Health Impact.  “Increasing the size of health warnings will not provide
greater awareness to consumers or decrease the number of
smokers,” John Clayton, Imperial Tobacco Canada Ltd.’s vice
president of corporate affairs, said in a statement. Aglukkaq
should instead focus on cracking down on contraband tobacco,
which accounts for as much as a third of the Canadian market,
Clayton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandre Deslongchamps in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 