-- Carlyle Sells $860 Million China Pacific Stake at a Profit, Reuters Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-30T09:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/carlyle-sells-860-million-china-pacific-stake-at-a-profit-reuters-says.html
Carlyle Group sold about $860
million shares in  China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co. , China’s
third-biggest insurer, pocketing a profit from the five-year
investment, Reuters reported today.  Carlyle sold 215 million shares in the insurer at HK$31.15
each, Reuters said, citing an unnamed person with direct
knowledge of the matter. The insurer’s  shares  rose 2.4 percent
in Hong Kong trading to HK$32.10 at the close, extending the
year’s gain to 3.9 percent.  Carlyle is rewarding investors with a six-fold profit after
having made “enough money” when a lockup period expired on Dec.
23, a year after the insurer’s HK$24.1 billion first-time share
sale in Hong Kong, according to  Ivan Cheung , head of regional
insurance at Mirae Asset Securities HK Ltd. Pacific Insurance’s
net premiums expanded almost 40 percent in the third quarter,
although  profit  fell as reserves surged partly due to
accounting-rule changes.  “It’s certainly a very good investment for Carlyle and
they would likely continue to sell the entire stake,” said  Tong Chengdun , a Shenzhen-based analyst at Guosen Securities Co.
“It’s within expectations and it won’t have any major impact on
Pacific Insurance’s operations.”  The stock’s gain this year trailed rivals including Ping
An Insurance (Group) Co., which climbed 26 percent this year.
Still, it outperformed the 1.6 percent drop in the  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index , which tracks Chinese companies traded
in Hong Kong.  IPO Plans  Dorothy Lee , Carlyle’s Hong Kong-based spokeswoman in Asia,
couldn’t be immediately reached on her mobile phone for a
comment. China Pacific’s Board Secretary Chen Wei also couldn’t
be contacted in the office.  Washington-based Carlyle, founded in 1987 by  William Conway ,
David Rubenstein and Daniel D’Aniello, is gearing up for a
public share sale to amass permanent capital and contend with
the growing challenge of raising money for buyout funds, Conway,
who oversees the company’s investments, told Bloomberg
Businessweek earlier this month.  Carlyle and Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential Financial
Inc. agreed in December 2005 to take a 25 percent stake in China
Pacific Life Insurance Co., a unit of Pacific Insurance, for 3.3
billion yuan ($499 million). The investment was converted into a
stake in the parent company in 2007, and then into Pacific
Insurance’s Hong Kong-listed shares last year as the insurer
sold stock in the city.  Before the sale, Parallel Investors and Carlyle Holdings
Mauritius owned a combined 1.32 billion shares, or 15.4 percent
of Pacific Insurance’s total share capital, according to company
filings.  -- Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Russell Ward   To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  