-- Carrefour Opens Its First Wholesale Store in India
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-12-30T08:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/carrefour-opens-its-first-wholesale-store-in-india-update1-.html
Carrefour SA , the world’s second-
largest retailer, opened its first wholesale store in India as
it seeks to expand in emerging economies amid increased
competition that is crimping margins in developed markets.  The store, which has a sales area of 5,200 square meters
(56,000 square feet), is located east of New Delhi in the
Shahadra neighborhood, the Paris-based retailer said today in an
e-mailed statement.  Carrefour cut its 2010 profit forecast for the second time
in two months in November, citing increased writedowns in Brazil
and lower-than-expected demand in Europe. The retailer has lost
market share in France since September as competitors added
stores, and price deflation “is evidently pressing margins,”
Chief Executive Officer  Lars Olofsson  said at the time.  Carrefour and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  are trying to gain a
foothold in the Indian market, where retail sales are forecast
to grow 53 percent to 25 trillion rupees ($556 billion) by 2014,
according to a  May report  by Business Monitor International.  Asia was Carrefour’s smallest market by sales in 2009,
accounting for about 7.5 percent of the total, according to the
company’s  website . France was the biggest, generating 43 percent,
followed by the rest of Europe at 36 percent.  Carrefour is recording better-than-expected performances in
India, China, and Poland, Olofsson said in November.  Protecting Owners  India’s laws, aimed at protecting owners of smaller shops,
have so far limited overseas companies to operating single-brand
outlets or wholesale stores. That has prompted Carrefour and
 Wal-Mart  to open wholesale shops in the world’s second-most
populous country.  Wal-Mart, which has partnered with India’s Bharti
Enterprises Pvt., plans to open 15 wholesale stores in India by
the end of next year, Raj Jain, chief executive officer of
Bharti-Walmart Pvt., said in September.  India’s trade ministry invited views on the subject of
foreign investment in retail from local operators, foreign
retailers, and industry groups in July. The government has said
it is reviewing the feedback.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  