-- Champagne Lures Big Spenders Even Amid Low-End Discounts
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-12-30T23:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/champagne-lures-big-spenders-even-as-low-end-discounts-abound.html
As New Year’s revelers ring in 2011
with a bottle of bubbly, the makers of the most expensive
champagnes are celebrating a return to favor after two years of
decline while cheaper brands continue to battle on price.  “The market is polarizing,” said Andrew Hawes, managing
director of  Mentzendorff , the U.K. distributor of Bollinger, and
chairman of the U.K. Champagne Agents’ Association. After
discounting across the board in 2009, “we’re seeing this year
that certain brands aren’t involved in it. We’re seeing a
parting of the ways, and that trend is going to continue.”  Sales of the most expensive wines including those made by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  are bucking the industry
trend as the wealthiest drinkers shell out more than 100 euros
($133) a pop for a bottle of champagne again amid a revival in
luxury spending after the credit crunch. Sales dropped in 2008
and 2009, when conspicuous consumption was “seen as virtually
socially unacceptable,” Hawes said.  Champagne sales as a whole are set to post a decline of 0.9
percent by value this year, the third straight drop, according
to Euromonitor research. Volume of the highest-priced champagne
segment will continue to grow at a compound annual growth rate
of 1.8 percent from 2009 to 2015, according to a report by
market researcher International Wine and Spirit Record.  The fall in sales “can pretty much be traced back to
Lehman,” Hawes said, referring to the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holding Inc. “At the back end of 2008, if you were
going to be drinking a premium brand of champagne you’d better
have been doing it on your own in the garden shed.”  Louis XIV  Champagne is produced from grapes grown only in the
 Champagne region  of northeast  France . The drink is made from
three primary grapes: Pinot Noir, Chardonnay and Pinot Meunier,
and gained favor with French kings including Louis XIV,
according to Laurent-Perrier’s  website , giving it the cachet of
being an exclusive, luxury drink.  Paris-based LVMH, the world’s biggest maker of champagne,
reported a 22 percent increase in sales in the first nine months
of 2010 at its spirits and wine unit and said there was a “good
return” of consumer demand for the drink in the third quarter.  The company generates about half of revenue at the unit
from sales of champagne brands including bottles of Moet &
Chandon and Veuve Clicquot, the bestselling champagnes in the
world, according to Euromonitor. The drinks range from about $46
for a bottle of Moet & Chandon’s Brut Imperial non-vintage to
$346 for Veuve Clicquot’s 1998 vintage rose “La Grande Dame,”
according to thedrinkshop.com.  ‘Brand Builders’  Pernod Ricard SA’s champagne unit expected to have a
“pretty good Christmas” season after a revival in demand in
the third quarter, said Lionel Breton, chief executive officer
of the Paris-based maker’s Martell Mumm Perrier-Jouet division.
Sales of Perrier-Jouet, which retails for about 32.90 euros in a
Paris store, soared 36 percent in the three months to Sept. 30.  “We took a decision not to discount during the crisis,”
Breton said in an interview. “We consider ourselves as brand
builders and not volume pushers.”    Lanson-BCC , the maker of the Boizel and Lanson brands,
reported an 8.5 percent increase in sales excluding a brokerage
unit in the first half of 2010, outpacing a 6.7 percent increase
in volume. The company, which says it’s the second-biggest
champagne producer globally, reported “superior vintages such
as champagne Lanson” and export sales had performed better than
its secondary brands.  Premium Labels  Laurent-Perrier is selling more premium champagnes,
increasing the ratio of those wines sold to 35.1 percent in the
first half of its fiscal year from 33.8 percent a year before,
it said Dec. 7. Vranken-Pommery Monopole  said  that the
phenomenon of trading down during the recession had faded in the
first half of the year, and that the company was seeing a return
to big-name brands and prestige cuvees.  That’s in contrast to the lower end of the market, where
consumers can find 10-pound ($15) bottles of Charles de Villers
at the U.K.’s William Morrison Supermarkets Plc stores and half-
priced bottles of Louis Chaurey for 17 pounds at Marks & Spencer
Plc.  “It hasn’t really been the Veuve Clicquots, the Laurent-
Perriers and the Perrier-Jouets” which have been discounted
this year, said Simon Hales, an analyst covering the drinks
industry at Evolution Securities in  London . “It’s those brands
where consumers don’t take any notice of the name on the bottle,
and just say ‘buy that because it’s cheap.’”  Firmer Prices  Some champagne producers are still struggling.  Remy
Cointreau SA , the maker of Piper-Heidsieck champagne that
retails for about $30 on wine.com, said Nov. 15 it hired bankers
to sell the unit, which is unprofitable even after a 12 percent
increase in first-half sales.  Producers are hoping for strong volume sales over the
holiday season to give them greater leverage to increase prices
in 2011, according to  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in London. Champagne may show “more firmness in
pricing” if volume improves.  The full effect of the rebound remains to be seen and may
not be sustainable, said Spiros Malandrakis, an analyst at
Euromonitor. “I don’t think the bounceback is either so solid
or has massive potential for growth moving forward,” he said.
Discounts on champagne in years past may also have damaged the
champagne brand, which may lead consumers to trade down to
sparkling wines like cava or prosecco, he said.  That said, “I don’t think it’s necessarily going to
cannibalize champagne,” said Evolution’s Hales. Champagne’s
“mystique is not going to go away.”  “There’s a kind of magic in champagne,” Breton at Pernod
said. “It’s not just sparkling wine; it’s champagne.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 