-- China Orders Some State-Owned Firms to Pay 5% More in Dividends
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-30T03:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/china-orders-some-state-owned-firms-to-pay-5-more-in-dividends.html
China ordered most companies owned
by the central government to pay 5 percent more in dividends to
the state from next year as the nation seeks to boost funding of
social programs such as for healthcare and education.  Government companies in tobacco, petroleum and
petrochemical, power, telecommunications and coal will pay the
largest portion of their profits, or 15 percent, as dividends,
compared with an earlier 10 percent, the  Ministry of Finance 
said in a  notice  posted on its website today. They include  China
Petrochemical Corp. ,  State Grid Corp. of China ,  China Huaneng
Group Corp.  and  China Telecommunications Corp.   The higher dividend requirements come as China spends more
on social services to reduce the burden of health care and
education costs on families, thereby encouraging them to spend
more on other goods. Premier  Wen Jiabao  and other leaders have
stressed the need to increase the role of domestic consumption
in China’s economy and to reduce the nation’s reliance on
exports and investment for  growth .  China’s finance ministry said three days before today’s
statement on the dividend requirements that it will increase
spending on healthcare, education, public housing and other
social services. Central government-owned companies had 802
billion yuan ($121 billion) of profit in the first 11 months of
2010, a 50.1 percent increase from a year ago, according to the
 State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission .  Steelmakers, Airlines  Companies in the steel, electronics, transportation,
construction and trade industries, such as  Baosteel Group Corp. ,
 China Eastern Air Holding Co.  and Cofco Corp., will be required
to pay 10 percent of after-tax profit as dividends, according to
today’s statement. Manufacturers of military equipment and
research institutes will be subject to a 5 percent payment,
according to the notice.  Two grain and cotton reserve companies are exempt from the
plan, according to today’s statement which didn’t mention
financial companies.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. ,
the nation’s largest lender in which the Ministry of Finance
owns a 35 percent stake, paid about 44 percent of its 2009
profit as dividends to investors.  The government plans to extend the compulsory dividend
payment program to 1,631 companies, the State Council said last
month. About 126 firms will be included in next year’s plan,
according to today’s finance ministry statement.  -- Luo Jun  and  Jiang Jianguo  in Shanghai. Editors:  Stephanie Wong ,
John Liu  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  