-- Clarke to Lead Australia With Ponting Hurt; Khawaja Has Cricket Test Debut
-- B y   M a l c o l m   S c o t t
-- 2010-12-30T07:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/clarke-to-lead-australia-with-ponting-hurt-khawaja-has-cricket-test-debut.html
Michael Clarke  will captain
Australia in next week’s fifth Ashes cricket Test against
England after  Ricky Ponting  was ruled out with a broken finger.  Clarke, who has led the team in shorter formats of the game,
will lead the Test team for the first time in the Sydney match,
which starts Jan. 3, Cricket Australia said today. Usman Khawaja,
a Pakistan-born left-hander and the top run scorer in
Australia’s Sheffield Shield interstate competition this season,
will make his Test debut as Ponting’s batting replacement.  Clarke, who along with Ponting has struggled for runs this
season, will be vying to level the series, which England leads
2-1. Clarke’s deputy in Sydney will be  Brad Haddin .  “We are sure that both Michael and Brad will lead this
Australian side with great professionalism and the full support
of the team as we strive for a victory in Sydney,” Chairman of
Selectors  Andrew Hilditch  said in an e-mailed statement.  Ponting fractured the little finger in his left hand when
he parried a catch to wicketkeeper Haddin late on day three of
the third Test in Perth, which Australia won by 267 runs. He
played with the fracture in Melbourne’s Boxing Day Test, which
England won by an innings and 157 runs to retain the Ashes for
the first time in 24 years.  “Ricky Ponting had a repeat x-ray after the fourth Test
which showed evidence that the fracture of his fifth finger has
moved during the course of the Melbourne Test,” team
physiotherapist  Alex Kountouris  said in an e-mailed statement.  Ponting’s Injury  Treatment options include surgery or splinting and
immobilization, the statement said. Ponting, 36, is expected to
resume training in the latter part of Australia’s summer and be
fit for next year’s World Cup.  England will head to Sydney with an unbeatable 2-1 lead in
the best-of-five contest. As the holder, England will retain the
trophy even if Australia wins the last Test and ties the series.  It’s the first time England successfully retained the Ashes
since 1986-87, when  Mike Gatting ’s squad secured a 2-1 win in
Australia. That remains the last series victory on Australian
soil by a touring England team.  Fast bowler Doug Bollinger was recalled to replace the
injured Ryan Harris in Australia’s 12-man squad.  Australia’s squad: Michael Clarke (captain), Brad Haddin
(vice-captain), Doug Bollinger, Michael Beer,  Phillip Hughes ,
 Ben Hilfenhaus ,  Mike Hussey ,  Mitchell Johnson , Usman Khawaja,
 Peter Siddle , Steven Smith,  Shane Watson .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Malcolm Scott  at   Mscott23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  