-- Copper Gains to Records in London, New York on Recovery Outlook, Yuan Gain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-30T05:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/copper-gains-to-records-in-london-new-york-on-recovery-outlook-yuan-gain.html
Copper in London and New York
climbed to records on speculation the global recovery is gaining
pace and that a strengthening Chinese yuan will spur more
imports by the world’s largest consumer.  The metal for three-month delivery gained 0.9 percent to a
record $9,480 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. Metal
for March delivery on the Comex in New York advanced 0.8 percent
to a record $4.3460 a pound.  “Copper is in a strong, upward trend, and perhaps a strong
yuan today is giving a further boost to copper prices,” Lin
Hui, head of the research department at Orient Securities
Futures Co., said by phone from Shanghai.  China’s yuan gained to its strongest level since the end of
1993 on speculation the central bank will permit more
appreciation next year to help curb inflation. The People’s Bank
of China today set the reference rate at the strongest level
since ending a dollar peg in July 2005.  Appreciation of the yuan has helped Chinese companies lower
the cost of imported goods, Sheng Shongcheng, head of the
central bank’s statistics and analysis department, said in a
speech published today by the Financial News newspaper.  Copper for March delivery in Shanghai closed the morning
session 0.4 percent higher at 69,790 yuan ($10,547) a ton.  China’s manufacturing growth slowed for the first time in
five months in December as the government tightened monetary
policy, a survey showed. The government raised borrowing costs
on Christmas Day for the second time this year.  ‘Biggest Risk’  “The biggest risk to the market was always tightening in
China and when that finally happened, investors just ignored the
news and pushed prices higher so there’s really very little to
stop the rally as fundamentals are on the side of the bulls,”
said Fang Junfeng, an analyst at China International Futures
(Shanghai) Co.  Economists are expecting data today to show U.S. initial
jobless claims fell and Italian business confidence rose to the
highest in more than two years. A South Korean report showed
industrial production expanded for a 17th consecutive month,
adding to signs that Asian economies are picking up.  Aluminum in London gained 0.2 percent to $2,460 a ton, zinc
climbed 0.4 percent to $2,408 a ton, and lead was unchanged at
$2,530 a ton. Nickel rose 1 percent to $24,090 a ton and tin
increased 0.6 percent to $26,700.  -- Helen Sun . Wisth assistance from Glenys Sim in Singapore
Editors: Richard Dobson, Matthew Oakley.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  