-- Cinderella, $1,700 Gala, Riverside DJ to Welcome 2011 in London
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-12-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/dancing-cinderella-1-700-gala-riverside-dj-to-welcome-2011-in-london.html
See 2010 out in style at the Ritz’s
black-tie gala. The cost is a cool 1,100 pounds ($1,700) a head.  For that you get a six-course dinner, dancing to a 10-piece
ensemble, a regimental marching band, a lone piper and a
fireworks display over the garden. And there is a bottle of
champagne for every couple.  Londoners wanting to welcome 2011 on a budget know the
biggest party is free. At the stroke of midnight, more fireworks
light up the skies above the River Thames. Officials say they
expect 200,000 people to watch from the river banks. If you plan
to be one of them, head there early -- designated  viewing areas 
shut as soon as they reach capacity -- and expect to get home
late in the transport logjam that traditionally ensues.  This year’s waterfront extravaganza -- paid for by funds
from the office of London  Mayor   Boris Johnson , and put together
by  Jack Morton Worldwide  -- features music for the first time.
In the countdown to midnight, BBC Radio 1’s DJ  Nihal  plays a
soundtrack he created for the occasion.  You can view the fireworks from the raised terrace of the
 Royal Festival Hall  on the river’s southern banks as part of the
Southbank Centre’s private party. There is an entrance fee of
100 pounds. The evening of clowning and comedy is curated by
 Bellowhead , an 11-strong ensemble whose riotous concerts blend
folk, rock, English music hall and New Orleans marching bands.  Ugly Sisters  For ballet and theater aficionados, the London show goes
on, unlike elsewhere in Europe, where venues tend to go dark at
year’s end.  “Cinderella” at the  Royal Opera House  sees the belle
(Roberta Marquez) dazzle the ball by artfully walking down a
flight of stairs en pointe. A couple of drag-queen ugly sisters
do their best to make her life miserable -- until Prince
Charming comes along. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or
+44-20-7304-4000.  Across the river at the  Old Vic Theatre  is Georges
Feydeau’s comical tale of suspected adultery, “A Flea in Her
Ear.” Madame Chandebise fears her pompous husband is cheating,
so she gets her best friend to taunt him with an invitation to a
hotel where the porter happens to be his exact lookalike.  There are many misunderstandings in  Richard Eyre ’s
production, where Tom Hollander plays both husband and porter.  If you opt for a festive dinner, there are many options to
choose from apart from the Ritz -- provided you’re ready to pay.  Eating Options  L’Anima, the gourmet Italian restaurant near the City of
London, serves a five-course New Year’s Eve menu. It’s 110
pounds, including a glass of Prosecco, or you can just dine a la
carte. There’s live music, too:  http://bit.ly/gAqe3J .  At Bentley’s Oyster Bar & Grill, the three-course dinner is
75 pounds and the restaurant’s jazz pianist plays in the bar:
 http://www.bentleys.org/home/ .  The boisterous Floridita plans a “glamorous and decadent
electro-swing spectacular,” with a cocktail and four-course
dinner for 125 pounds. Groups of 10 or more pay just 100 pounds
a pop. Don’t expect a quiet evening:  http://bit.ly/dQf4IN .  Dinner at the Ritz’s Rivoli Bar is more modest than the
hotel’s gala dinner -- well, comparatively speaking. It’s 250
pounds, including Champagne:  http://bit.ly/dlYcdR .  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 