-- De Niro Reasserts Control of Father’s Art, Launches New Prize
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-12-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/de-niro-maintains-soho-time-capsule-reasserts-control-of-father-s-legacy.html
Illuminated by a skylight at midday,
the actor  Robert De Niro  stood in a sixth-floor lower Manhattan
studio and smiled for a photographer.  “Cheese!” he said playfully, wearing a corduroy jacket,
his gray locks tumbling down to his ears.  I met with the 67-year-old to discuss his “calling” --
protecting and promoting art created by his father.  Robert De
Niro Sr.  died in 1993 at 71 of prostate cancer. The artist lived
and worked in this roughly 2,000-square-foot space his son
maintains, upstairs from what are now trendy boutiques and
galleries on West Broadway.  A blue bicycle was propped up near easels and a trolley
with neatly arrayed brushes and tubes of crusted paint. De Niro
Sr.’s colorful figurative drawings and paintings hung salon-
style over exposed brick walls -- depicting flowers, reclining
nudes and clothed people.  The actor said he has kept this time capsule for 17 years
so his five children, particularly his three youngest who range
from 12 to 15, could experience something of their grandfather’s
world.  “I’m not into art, but I’m into my father’s art and I know
when something is done with great care,” said De Niro, who also
displays the work at restaurants he co-owns -- Nobu, Locanda
Verde and Tribeca Grill -- and at his  Greenwich Hotel .  “I said to people at the hotel, ‘When it comes to my
father’s work, you’re lucky you have it here. This is
special.’”  Salander Implosion  De Niro recently took greater control over his father’s
work. A catalyst was the implosion of  Lawrence Salander , the
streetwise Upper East Side art dealer entrusted with the estate
who was indicted for fraud in 2009 and imprisoned earlier this
year.  Prosecutors said Salander-O’Reilly Galleries sold paintings
by De Niro Sr. owned by the actor without informing or paying
him, among other misdeeds. De Niro’s lawyers spent two years in
U.S. Bankruptcy court recovering several artworks.  The actor has hired art advisers  Megan Fox Kelly  and
Jeffrey Hoffeld. They are researching his father’s work and are
in talks with museums about a new exhibition. De Niro’s
nonprofit  Tribeca Film Institute  has also introduced a $25,000
annual prize in his father’s name to reward a “mid-career
artist.”  “Jeff really thought that it was something that was needed
in the art world,” Kelly said. “We presented the idea to Bob
and he loved it.”  ‘It’s an Asset’  DC Moore Gallery  recently took on the De Niro estate.
President Bridget Moore said most of his oil paintings sell for
$30,000 to $50,000, works on paper go for $1,500 to $30,000.  Said De Niro: “In an odd paradoxical way, the more they
cost, the more the art is preserved because it’s an asset.
That’s OK with me, just to make sure it’s preserved and has a
home.”  De Niro was concise but passionate in the interview, even
getting choked up when regretfully describing his indifference
as a child to his father’s art openings.  “Sometimes we’d go to movies. He’d like me to go to shows,
his openings. I just wasn’t interested.”  De Niro Sr. had early success, with a one-man show at age
23 at the West 57th Street gallery of collector Peggy
Guggenheim. (Her uncle would later establish the Solomon R.
Guggenheim Foundation.) De Niro Sr. was intense, self-confident
and “often swimming against the prevailing mainstream,”
according to a 2004 book Salander published about him.  A representative painter when abstraction flourished, he
taught art and worked as a security guard to make ends meet. The
book’s introduction, by curator and critic Peter Frank,
describes him at times as being in a “fragile emotional state”
and diagnosed as bipolar.  Fear of Flying  In the interview, De Niro said he flew to Paris in 1965 at
22, to coax his father into returning to New York after spending
five years in France.  “He was afraid to fly,” De Niro said. “I pushed him on
the plane to get back.”  The actor was in France again in March 2010, proudly
visiting an exhibition of his father’s art at the Matisse Museum
in Nice. His work is also in the collections of the Metropolitan
Museum of Art and the  Whitney Museum of American Art .  As for Salander, he was recently transferred to a medium-
security state prison 60 miles east of Syracuse, the city where
De Niro Sr. was born. De Niro said his father generally
distrusted dealers.  “He was always cynical about them, so I find it ironic
that the one person he endorsed before he passed away was Larry
Salander. And Larry’s a charmer -- and I still like Larry -- and
he did what he did,” he said.  “You have to be on top of everything to make sure it’s
done right,” De Niro said. “At that time I thought Larry would
take care of it. It doesn’t work that way. God helps those who
help themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 