-- DP World Transfers Mina Zayed Port Operation to Abu Dhabi as Contract Ends
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-12-30T06:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/dp-world-transfers-mina-zayed-port-operation-to-abu-dhabi-as-contract-ends.html
DP World Ltd. will hand over the
management of Abu Dhabi’s Mina Zayed port operations to Abu
Dhabi Terminals in January and the Dubai-based company said it
didn’t reach a binding accord to manage the new  Khalifa Port .  “The Ebitda contribution from the management agreement is
not material” as a five-year contract to manage marine terminal
operations at Mina Zayed ends, the Dubai government-controlled
company said in a  statement  to Nasdaq Dubai today. Ebitda is
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  DP World , the world’s fourth-biggest ports operator,
managed 50 terminals across Asia, Europe, Africa and the
Americas before today’s announcement. The company said Dec. 22
it agreed to sell a 75 percent stake in its Australian unit,
which operates terminals at five ports, to Citi Infrastructure
Investors and a partner for A$1.5 billion ($1.5 billion).  Abu Dhabi, holder of most of the oil reserves in the United
Arab Emirates, is building the Khalifa Port and Industrial Zone
to add to its existing Mina Zayed facility as part of a plan to
diversify its economy from oil. The new port, located between
Abu Dhabi and Dubai, will be spread over 400 square kilometers
and begin operations in the fourth quarter of 2012.  “We have worked closely with Abu Dhabi Terminals and Abu
Dhabi Ports Co. over many years and we will continue to work
closely with them into the future,”  Mohammed Al Muallem , DP
World’s managing director for the U.A.E. region, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Dubai’s Jebel Ali Port is the biggest in the Middle East.
The Khalifa Port will have an initial capacity to handle 2
million 20-foot containers, rising to 15 million when all phases
are completed by 2030, Abu Dhabi Ports said in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  