-- Emerging Stocks Advance, Set for Second Annual Gain, Amid Global Recovery
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-12-30T06:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/emerging-stocks-advance-set-for-second-annual-gain-amid-global-recovery.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with a
 benchmark index  headed for its second straight annual gain, as
investors bet global funds will continue to buy more shares in
developing nations amid an accelerating economic recovery.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.5 percent to
1,142.59 at 2:25 p.m. in Singapore, set for the highest level
since Nov. 10. The measure has surged 15 percent this year,
extending last year’s record 75 percent rally.  “Emerging markets are now in a secular bull market and we
expect this trend to continue into 2011, but with significant
corrections along the way,” said  Mark Mobius , who oversees
about $40 billion as executive chairman of Templeton Emerging
Markets Group. “Even more money will be directed into these
markets as investors around the world are beginning to realize
that emerging markets are growing three times faster than
developed markets, have more foreign reserves and lower debt-to-
GDP ratios than developed markets.”  Emerging-market equity funds have attracted a record $92.5
billion this year, EPFR Global said on Dec. 24. Asia’s
developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010 versus 2.7
percent in advanced countries, the International Monetary Fund
has forecast. South Korea’s  industrial production  gained for the
17th straight month, Statistics Korea said in Gwacheon today.  Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  has jumped 47 percent
this year, making it Asia’s best performer among major markets
for 2010 as faster economic growth and record-low interest rates
buoyed shares. Markets will be closed tomorrow for holidays in
Indonesia, South Korea, the Philippines, Malaysia and Thailand.  Insurers  Dongbu Insurance Co.  jumped 6.8 percent in Seoul trading,
leading South Korean non-life insurers higher after the
government announced measures to help stem losses at their auto
insurance businesses. South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi  stock index
rose 0.4 percent to the highest level since Nov. 6, 2007, while
the won appreciated 1 percent to 1,134.85 per dollar.  Bank of Korea official Lee Young Bog forecast the current-
account surplus will widen this month, reaching about $29
billion for the year. The surplus narrowed to $1.93 billion in
November from $4.89 billion the previous month, while factory
output expanded 10.4 percent in November from a year earlier,
data released today showed.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 0.6 percent, erasing
an earlier loss of as much as 1 percent and trimming its 2010
decline to 16 percent. It’s the worst-performing equity market
among major developing nations, according to data tracked by
Bloomberg. Manufacturing growth slowed for the first time in
five months, a purchasing managers’ index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed, after the government
boosted interest rates twice since October to tame inflation.  China’s Growth  China’s economy may grow 9.5 percent next year, more than a
previous estimate of 8.8 percent, RBC Capital Markets analysts
led by  Nick Chamie  said. The nation’s stocks are poised to
rebound in 2011 as the government keeps inflation under control,
Templeton’s Mobius said.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 0.3 percent to 8,896.19, its
first gain in three days.  Evergreen Marine Corp. , Taiwan’s
largest container-shipping line, rose 3.8 percent in Taipei
trading after the Commercial Times reported Chairman Hsieh Chih-
chien said he expects the container shipping market to grow more
than previously estimated next year amid an increase in U.S.
retail sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at   rfrost4@bloomberg.net  