-- Tesla Says Electric Car Battery Plan Means Profit at Low Volume
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-12-30T21:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/tesla-says-electric-car-battery-plan-means-profit-at-low-volume.html
  Tesla Motors Inc ., the electric
carmaker backed by  Toyota Motor Corp . and  Daimler AG , said
cheaper batteries will make its Model S sedan profitable with
much lower sales than Nissan Motor Co. seeks for its Leaf car.  The $57,000 electric Model S, which uses cells similar to
those in laptops, is designed to make money for  Palo Alto ,
California-based Tesla at 20,000 annual deliveries, Chief
Technology Officer J.B. Straubel said in an interview. Nissan
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  has said combined battery-
car sales for Nissan and affiliate  Renault SA  may need to reach
500,000 vehicles a year to be profitable without government aid.  Nissan’s choice of a larger type of lithium-ion battery
means “they will have a cost challenge that will be more
difficult to solve,” Straubel said yesterday in an interview.
“It will require a lot higher volume before they really get to
a cost point that is internally sustainable.”  Tesla, which has yet to post an annual profit, has
delivered $109,000 rechargeable Roadsters since 2008, powered by
thousands of small lithium-ion cells similar to those used in
portable computers. The Silicon Valley startup says such cells,
supplied by  Panasonic Corp . and other manufacturers, will remain
more cost-effective for the foreseeable future than the larger
lithium batteries in the Leaf and  General Motors Co .’s $41,000
plug-in Volt, which both went on sale this month.  Not Comparable  Tesla’s battery packs may cost as little as $200 per
kilowatt hour, compared with about $700 to $800 per kilowatt
hour for so-called large-form cell lithium-ion packs, Martin Eberhard, a Tesla founder and former chief executive, said in an
interview last month. Straubel declined to confirm Eberhard’s
estimate or discuss the cost of Tesla’s battery packs.  Nissan’s electric-vehicle strategy can’t really be compared
with that of Tesla, said David Reuter, a spokesman for the
Yokohama, Japan-based company’s North American unit. He didn’t
elaborate.  “The Nissan Leaf product program will be profitable over
its life cycle,” Reuter said. He declined to say how long the
product cycle would be for the $32,780 Leaf.  The company has been developing its lithium-ion battery
technology over the past two decades, “so a lot of the
investment has already been amortized through many years,”
Reuter said.  Tesla fell $1.23, or 4.4 percent, to $26.50 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading in  New York . The shares have risen
56 percent since they began trading June 28. Nissan fell 1.5
percent to 773 yen of the 11 a.m. trading break in Tokyo. The
stock declined 4.6 percent in 2010.  Higher Prices  While the Model S’s higher price will make it easier to
turn a profit with fewer deliveries, Tesla’s Straubel said
cheaper batteries are the main reason. Sales of the sedan are
planned to begin in 2012.  Tesla’s challenge is to ensure high quality in its battery
packs and vehicles as it tries to expand from supplying about
1,000 Roadsters a year to making 20,000 or more of the Model S,
said Brett Smith, who specializes in alternative propulsion
vehicles at the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan.  “There’s a method to their madness,” Smith said. “Tesla
is using cells that, while not exactly the same as those in
laptops, can be made on existing lines that already mass-produce
them.”  As a result, Tesla didn’t have to spend as much for battery
research and development and lithium-ion cell production, Smith
said. “Especially for a small manufacturer, there’s a logic to
what they’re doing,” Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  