-- Favre Injured, Dome Deflated as Vikings End Season Searching for New Home
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-12-30T14:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/favre-injured-dome-deflated-as-vikings-end-season-searching-for-new-home.html
Long after their playoff chances
vanished, their coach was fired and quarterback  Brett Favre 
finally sidelined, the Minnesota Vikings face the end of the
National Football League season unsure where they will next call
home.  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  met this month with
Minnesota’s governor-elect,  Mark Dayton , along with other
political, business and union representatives.  He said the Vikings need a new place to play after the
collapse of the Metrodome’s roof this month left the team
hosting games in Detroit and outdoors in 23-degree Fahrenheit
(minus-4 Celsius) temperatures at the University of Minnesota’s
TCF Bank stadium.  “I think there’s a recognition that we need to find a
long-term solution for the Vikings here and get a new stadium
built,” Goodell said at a pregame news conference on Dec. 20.
“We are all going to be working hard to develop these solutions
and keep the Vikings here in Minnesota.”  The Vikings have said they won’t renew the deal when their
stadium lease expires in 2011, so the team itself may become a
free agent, said Robert Baade, who teaches sports economics at
Chicago’s Lake Forest College and has written studies  including 
“Selling the Game: Measuring the Economic Impact of
Professional Sports Through Taxable Sales.”  “I think the people of Minnesota will have to make a
decision either to build a new stadium or lose the team,” Baade
said in a telephone interview.  New Stadium  The Vikings  are lobbying  for a new building, saying the 28-
year-old Metrodome in Minneapolis doesn’t make enough money.
Lester Bagley, a Vikings spokesman on stadium issues, said in a
statement that a new facility shouldn’t be discussed in light of
the roof collapse. He didn’t return telephone calls or e-mails
seeking comment.  The stadium will be closed until the end March, the  Star
Tribune  of Minneapolis said today, citing  Bill Lester , the
executive director of the Metropolitan Sports Facilities
Commission.  Los Angeles has  competing proposals  to build a stadium that
may lure the NFL back to the second-largest U.S. market. NFL
spokesman  Greg Aiello  said the league has no immediate plans to
put a team there.  This season began with high expectations for the Vikings
after they came within one victory of reaching the Super Bowl.
Now 6-9 after a 24-14 win over the Philadelphia Eagles two days
ago, Minnesota faded from contention, fired coach  Brad Childress , who feuded with Favre, and cut receiver  Randy Moss .  Stadium Legislation  State Senator  Julie Rosen , a Republican, said she’ll
introduce legislation next month to finance a stadium. She said
that bill may be similar to a $790 million plan that stalled
this year, which would have diverted sales-tax money from the
Minneapolis Convention Center toward a new stadium.  “The Vikings are a great asset to our state, and I have
received considerable support for my efforts,” she wrote in an
e-mail. “I am committed to finding a creative solution to help
the team finance a stadium that does not use state tax
dollars.”  State Senator  John Marty , a Democrat, said that plan would
be a subsidy to team owner  Zygmunt Wilf  of about $42 on every
ticket, at a time when the state has been cutting spending for
courts and schools to attack a budget deficit of $6.2 billion.  Dayton, a Democrat who takes over the governor’s office
next year, toured the Metrodome this month and described it as a
 “stark picture.”  He said a stadium deal, if it creates a
predicted 8,000 jobs, would help stimulate the economy.  Labor Problems  The Vikings may have time to decide where to go. NFL owners
voted in 2008 to opt out of the labor agreement with players
after this season. Negotiations haven’t yielded a new agreement.
The union says the NFL is preparing for a lockout; the league
says it wants an agreement as soon as possible.  The Metrodome was completed in 1982 at a cost of about $55
million, paid from revenue bonds and liquor taxes. The bonds
were all redeemed as of Dec. 31, 2009, according to the
Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission’s  annual report .  Wilf, a 60-year-old New Jersey-based commercial real-estate
developer, bought the Vikings from  Red McCombs  for $600 million
in 2005, promising “We will be in Minneapolis forever” and
saying he’d like to build an open-air stadium.  The Vikings moved outdoors this season when the inflatable
roof -- 10 acres of Teflon-coated Fiberglas --collapsed under
the weight of 17 inches (43 centimeters) of snow. The game
against the New York Giants was moved to Dec. 13 in Detroit’s
Ford Field, the closest indoor NFL stadium to Minneapolis.
Tickets were given away.  Shovel Snow  The team held its final home game of the season a week
later at the TCF Bank Stadium, which seats about 14,000 fewer
than the Metrodome. The university recruited fans to shovel out
the snow, and the Vikings honored tickets on a first-come,
first-served basis.  Roy Terwilliger , chairman of the  Metropolitan Sports
Facilities Commission , said the agency would bear the cost of
repairs to the Metrodome. Birdair Inc., the Amherst, New York-
based company that built the roof, told the commission in July
that replacing it may cost as much as $15 million. The
commission’s lease with the Vikings requires business-
interruption insurance.  Favre’s Year  Favre didn’t play against the Eagles and may stay on the
sideline when the Vikings end their season Jan. 2 at the Detroit
Lions. The 41-year-old quarterback, a three-time NFL most
valuable player, ended his record 297-game streak of consecutive
regular-season starts, mostly with the Green Bay Packers, this
month after a shoulder injury left his hand numb. He also was
fined $50,000 by the league yesterday for failing to cooperate
in its investigation of the quarterback’s action toward a female
co-worker when both were with the New York Jets in 2008.  As the Vikings’ fans endure a disappointing season,
Minnesota taxpayers are facing a decision, Baade said.  “The threat that the team could move is greatly enhanced
at this point,” he said. “I think this really puts Minnesotans
up against it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 