-- Goldman Sachs, Citigroup Were on Dudley's Agenda in First Days on The Job
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-12-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/fed-s-dudley-planned-meetings-with-wall-street-chiefs-in-first-days-on-job.html
Meetings with top  Goldman Sachs 
Group Inc. and  Citigroup  Inc. officials were on the schedule of
Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley  in his
first days on the job in February 2009, the regional reserve
bank chief’s daybook showed yesterday.  Dudley, a former partner and chief U.S. economist at
Goldman, had an appointment to meet that bank’s chairman,  Lloyd Blankfein , on Feb. 6, 2009, according to his schedule for 2009
and the first nine months of 2010. Four days earlier, Goldman
was the topic of a planned meeting between Dudley and his staff.  Bloomberg News requested the records in a Nov. 29, 2010,
Freedom of Information Act filing. New York Fed Senior Vice
President Michael Held, in a letter to Bloomberg containing the
documents, said the bank was complying “with the spirit of
FOIA,” while maintaining it was not subject to the legislation.
The New York Fed also published Dudley’s schedule on its
 website .  “In order to effectively perform his public duties, the
New York Fed president must meet regularly with market
participants, fellow regulators, the heads of institutions
supervised by the Fed,” said New York Fed spokesman Jeffrey
Smith. Dudley also meets with “members of advisory committees
on small business and the regional economy, international
officials and many others,” Smith said.  Dudley became the New York Fed’s 10th president and chief
executive on Jan. 27, 2009. Prior to that, he was the bank’s
head of markets during the financial crisis and one of the
architects of the Fed’s emergency lending facilities.  Open Communication  “You would expect him to have open lines of communication
with these guys,” said  Dino Kos , a managing director at
Portales Partners LLC in New York and former head of markets at
the New York Fed bank. “It seems pretty normal.”  The daybook also showed the grueling schedule kept by the
New York Fed chief as the U.S. financial system had begun to
heal from the financial crisis following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  A car picked Dudley up at 6:15 a.m. most mornings, and he
was in meetings with staff by 7:30 a.m. At lunch and in the
afternoons, he often met with industry and international finance
officials such as  Christine Lagarde , France’s minister of
finance.  At the end of each day, Dudley was briefed by staff on
market conditions. Sometimes his day extended to dinner, such as
one scheduled with New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  at 8
p.m. on Feb. 9, 2009. Bloomberg is the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP. Dudley also met
with Bloomberg LP President  Daniel Doctoroff  and  Jerry Speyer ,
chairman of Tishman Speyer, on June 2, 2009.  Dimon, Bernanke  Dudley scheduled a dinner with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
chairman  Jamie Dimon  on Feb. 18, 2009. On March 17, 2009, he met
with Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at 1 p.m., an hour before the
policy-making Federal Open Market Committee met.  The New York Fed president also used that trip to
Washington to meet with lawmakers who would oversee financial
reform legislation.  Dudley met with Senator  Bob Corker , and U.S.
Representatives  Barney Frank  and  Spencer Bachus  on March 16,
2009, and with Senator  Jack Reed  the following day. Frank and
Bachus were then the chairman and ranking member, respectively,
of the House Financial Services Committee and Corker and Reed
were then members of the Senate Banking Committee. Both
committees have oversight responsibility for the central bank.  The Fed Board of Governors works closely with reserve banks
in its oversight of the largest bank-holding companies. The New
York Fed plays a central role as the Board’s eyes and ears on
markets and the big Wall Street institutions.  Other meetings with Goldman’s Blankfein followed on Feb.
18, April 3 and Dec. 11, 2009, and on Aug. 18, 2010. Dudley met
with Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  on Feb. 2
and 23, and on Sept. 11 in 2009. He also met Pandit on Jan. 21,
March 18, June 3 and Sept. 17 in 2010, the daybook showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 Ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  