-- Former Yukos Head Khodorkovsky to Spend 14 Years in Prison on Convictions
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 2010-12-30T18:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/former-yukos-head-khodorkovsky-to-spend-14-years-in-prison-on-convictions.html
Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the former
head of Yukos Oil Co., may serve an additional six years in
prison following his conviction in a trial that heightened U.S.
and European concerns about the rule of law in Russia.  Khodorkovsky, once Russia’s richest man, will spend a total
of 14 years in prison, including the eight years he is serving
on previous charges, Moscow Judge Viktor Danilkin said today,
after finding him guilty of money laundering and embezzling oil.
The 47-year-old will appeal, said defense attorney  Yuri Schmidt .  Khodorkovsky has called the charges retribution for his
opposition to Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin . Originally due for
release in 2011, Khodorkovsky will now remain in prison until
after the 2012 presidential election that may return Putin to
the Kremlin. Putin has denied any involvement in the case.  Platon Lebedev  “and I have shown by example that you
cannot count on the courts to protect you from government
officials in Russia,” Khodorkovsky said in a statement
distributed by his lawyers. “But we have not lost hope, nor
should our friends.”  The new sentence will run from 2003, when Khodorkovsky was
arrested on previous charges of tax evasion and fraud while
refueling his plane in Siberia. Khodorkovsky and Lebedev, his
former business partner, are already serving eight-year
sentences under a 2005 conviction relating to that case.  Yukos, once Russia’s largest company by market value, was
declared bankrupt with about $30 billion of tax claims and sold
off in pieces when Putin was president.  German Critique  Governments in the U.S. and Europe said the guilty verdict,
which Danilkin began reading Dec. 27, further weakened the rule
of law in Russia. President  Dmitry Medvedev  has made ending
“legal nihilism” one of the top goals of his administration.  “The trial and the sentence raise considerable questions
about the adherence to the principles governing a state of law,
and represent a backward step on the path toward the
modernization of Russia taken by President Medvedev,”  Christoph Steegmans , a German government spokesman, said today in a
statement.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Dec. 27 that
the case “raises serious questions about selective prosecution
-- and about the rule of law being overshadowed by political
consideration.”  Khodorkovsky’s trial is a domestic matter and international
criticism is “unacceptable,” Russia’s Foreign Ministry said
Dec. 28 in a statement posted on its website. The ministry told
the foreign powers to stop pressuring Russian courts.  Investment Climate  Russia’s Micex stock index rose 0.6 percent today, closing
at a 2010 high of 1687.99. The index fell 0.7 percent on Dec.
27, when Danilkin began reading the verdict.  Investors had priced a full conviction and long sentence
into the markets,  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib
Financial Corp. in Moscow, said earlier this week.  “There is no connection between the verdict and the
investment climate in Russia,” Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said today by phone. “Thus we can hardly talk about any
potential influence on the investment climate.”  Peskov declined to comment on whether the trial and verdict
was fair.  German Gref , chief executive officer of OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s biggest lender, said earlier this month that
Khodorkovsky’s imprisonment was “one of the irritants” to
which investors in Russia often react.  “We have our work cut out for us to improve the investment
climate,” Gref, who was economy minister when Khodorkovsky was
arrested, said in an interview.  ‘Thief’ In Jail  Speaking during an annual call-in show this month, Putin
said that “a thief should sit in jail,” referring to
Khodorkovsky’s 2005 conviction. Medvedev told Russian officials
last week to abstain from commenting before the trial was over.  Putin’s comments pressured the court, said Vadim Klyuvgant,
Khodorkovsky’s lead defense lawyer.  Khodorkovsky’s mother, Marina, told reporters today that
the judge is a professional who couldn’t have written such
“nonsense.” She said her son was ready for the conviction.  “This sentence is cruel and absurd,” said  Ludmila Alexeeva , who heads the Moscow Helsinki Group, Russia’s
oldest human-rights organization. “It proves that there is no
independent justice in Russia.”  No ‘Scapegoat’  Most Russians are indifferent to Khodorkovsky, according to
a poll of 1,593 people conducted in November, Boris Dubnov, head
of socio-political research at the Levada Center in Moscow, said
today. About 65 percent of respondents didn’t care about the
trial, while 37 percent said the trial was orchestrated.  “The attempt to make a scapegoat and demonize him” for
the social and wealth gap in Russia “wasn’t successful,”
Dubnov said in phone interview. “The population has understood
it’s not about the oligarchs.”  More than a third of Russians, or 36 percent, supported the
guilty verdict in 2005, compared with 4 percent who considered
Khodorkovsky to be innocent, according to a 2008 poll by the
All-Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion, or VTsIOM.  Khodorkovsky has said he’s prepared to die in prison.  The verdict will be “predictable,” he said in his  closing
statement  on Nov. 2.  “No one believes that you can get an acquittal in the
Yukos affair in a Moscow court.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anton Doroshev  in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at  msweetman@bloomberg.net  