-- Ex-Primary Global Consultant Jiau Gets $250,000 Bail
-- B y   P a m e l a   A .   M a c L e a n
-- 2010-12-30T19:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/former-primary-global-consultant-jiau-seeks-bail-in-insider-trading-case.html
Former Primary Global Research LLC
expert networking consultant  Winifred Jiau , charged in New York
as part of a Justice Department probe into insider trading, was
granted $250,000 bail in federal court in San Francisco.  Jiau, arrested Dec. 28 in Fremont, California, was accused
of selling data on  Nvidia Corp.  and  Marvell Technology Group
Ltd. , makers of computer components, to portfolio managers at
three unidentified hedge funds through Primary Global, according
to a filing in Manhattan federal court. The hedge funds paid
Jiau $200,000 through the networking firm, prosecutors said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Wilson Leung argued today that Jiau
should stay in jail, saying she has incentive to flee now that
she’s been charged. Jiau, 43, faces one count each of conspiracy
to commit securities fraud and securities fraud and, under
sentencing guidelines, she may be sent to prison for 57 months
to 63 months if convicted, Leung said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge  Nandor Vadas  ordered Jiau today to
give up her U.S. and Taiwan passports and submit to electronic
monitoring. Jiau must put up $12,000 cash by Jan. 4 and the rest
must be signed off by a surety, her friend Kenneth Lee. She may
be released as early as today.  Marilyn Gerber , a spokeswoman for Primary Global, said in
an e-mailed statement that Jiau served as an “expert
consultant” with the company from September 2006 to December
2008, declining further comment.  Jiau was the fifth Primary Global consultant arrested in an
insider-trading crackdown led by the office of Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara  that also generated criminal charges
against two other employees of the company. One of the
consultants, former Dell Inc. supply chain manager Daniel
DeVore, pleaded guilty Dec. 10.  Expert-Networking  Expert-networking companies such as Mountain View,
California-based Primary Global match investors with specialists
who provide insight into specific markets.  Leung called Jiau a “flight risk” yesterday, telling
Vadas that FBI agents heard Jiau’s car running and found luggage
in her house when they arrived to arrest her.  Jiau’s attorney, Mark Goldrosen, said at today’s hearing
she didn’t attempt to evade Federal Bureau of Investigation
agents who came to arrest her. He said she was coming out of her
garage when the agents stopped her and that she didn’t hear them
knocking on her front door. She stopped immediately and
cooperated with them. The luggage they found in her apartment
wasn’t packed, he said.  Goldrosen said she has known about the insider trading
investigation since mid-December, was aware that others were
arrested and didn’t attempt to flee since then.  Self-Employed Trader  The attorney described Jiau as a self-employed commodities
trader with a graduate degree from Stanford University who has
lived in the San Francisco Bay area for almost 18 years.  Jiau was told to come back to court Jan. 12 for a hearing
on whether she will be sent to New York to face the charges.
Goldrosen said outside court he didn’t yet know whether she
would fight the effort to return her to New York.  A confidential informant listened to conversations among
Jiau and two hedge fund representatives in which she allegedly
provided confidential information of Marvell prior to company
announcements, the FBI said.  Jiau is accused of providing details of Marvell’s and
Nvidia’s public earnings announcements for the first two fiscal
quarters of 2008 prior to their public release, according to the
FBI.  Jiau passed information to a hedge fund portfolio manager
who purchased 118,000 shares of Marvell on May 23, 2008, and an
additional 300,000 shares, as well as call options, on May 29,
2008, according to the affidavit.  The portfolio manager’s firm, identified as “Hedge Fund
A,” sold its entire position the following day and “netted a
profit of over $820,000,” the government said.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 10-2900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pamela MacLean  at  pmaclean@pacbell.net  in
San Francisco federal court.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 