-- GE Leads $3.19 Trillion in Corporate Bond Sales: Credit Markets
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-12-30T19:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/ge-leads-3-trillion-in-company-bond-sales-as-yields-fall-credit-markets.html
Corporate bond sales worldwide
topped $3 trillion for a second straight year, led by the
highest-ever issuance of junk-rated debt, as borrowers locked in
the lowest yields on record.  Rabobank Nederland, the world’s largest agricultural
lender, and Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co .’s
finance unit led $3.19 trillion of offerings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Ally Financial Inc., Ford Motor Credit
Co. and 509 other speculative-grade companies sold $287 billion
of debt in the U.S., smashing the previous record of $162.7
billion in 2009.  Signs the global economic recovery is gaining strength
encouraged investors to lend money to borrowers at lower  interest rates , allowing Johnson & Johnson and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc . to sell bonds at what were then record-low coupons. In the
U.S., bond funds took in $234.8 billion this year through
October, while investors withdrew money from stock funds,
according to the  Investment Company Institute  in  Washington .  “This was a once-in-a-career opportunity to refinance
everything you possibly could,” said  James Kochan , who oversees
$175.6 billion of bonds in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , as chief
fixed-income strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management LLC.  Sales still declined 18 percent from last year’s $3.88
trillion as governments withdrew bond guarantees for financial
companies trying to weather the credit crisis. Concern that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis would worsen slowed sales in the
region.  Yields Fall  Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds worldwide fell
to an average of 3.36 percent on Oct. 11, the lowest ever level
for the daily data that began in 1996, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields dropped from last year’s high of 7.41 percent on March
17, 2009, translating into savings for the average borrower of
$4.05 million annually for every $100 million of bonds sold.  Merrill’s global corporate index yielded 3.922 percent
yesterday, with the average spread unchanged at 1.69 percentage
points. The  Barclays Capital  Global Aggregate Index of bonds has
gained 0.07 percent this month, taking this year’s advance to
4.26 percent.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost to protect the debt
of Anadarko Petroleum Corp. dropped to a seven-month low after a
London newspaper reported  BHP Billiton Ltd . may bid for the
company and shares of  MBIA Inc . gained the most in more than two
months amid prospects that it may be able to resume insurance of
municipal debt.  Credit-default swaps on Anadarko declined 27.3 basis points
to 154.4, their lowest since May 27, at 10:54 a.m. in  New York ,
according to data provider CMA. The Daily Mail said BHP may make
a $90-a-share offer for the second-largest U.S. independent oil
and natural gas producer, without saying where it got the
information.  Anadarko Shares  Anadarko rose $4.08, or 6.3 percent, to $74.81 at 12:59
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. That’s the
highest since June 30, 2008, and up from a low of $34.83 on June
9 of this year, following the April explosion at a BP Plc Gulf
of Mexico oil well in which Anadarko holds a stake.  Ruban Yogarajah, a London-based spokesman for BHP, and  John Christiansen , a spokesman for the Woodlands, Texas-based
Anadarko, declined to comment on the Daily Mail report.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
fell as reports showed the economy is improving. The Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 0.2 basis point to a mid-price of 85.1
basis points as of 11:45 a.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  MBIA Gains  A report today from the Labor Department showed claims for
jobless benefits fell last week to the lowest level since July
2008.  MBIA soared 13 percent to $11.75. The shares climbed 8.8
percent yesterday after JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Barclays Plc 
withdrew from a 2009 lawsuit against the Armonk, New York-based
company.  The company has suspended insuring municipal bonds because
of the suit by 18 of the world’s largest financial companies
that challenged MBIA’s decision to separate its municipal bond
insurance business from its structured-finance guarantees.  “There is going to be a market for public finance
insurance and if the split is upheld, I think the market would
invest in a pure municipal finance insurer,” Brian Charles, an
analyst with R.W. Pressprich & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview.  Suit Continues  The lawsuit over dividing the company will continue for
the remaining plaintiffs, according to a filing yesterday in the
New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  Bonds from New York-based Citigroup were the most actively
traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers yesterday, with 57
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index rose
0.08 cent to 92.76 cents on the dollar, the highest since April
27. The index tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans. Leveraged loans and junk bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by
S&P.  Emerging Markets  In emerging markets, relative yields rose 3 basis points to
240 basis points, or 2.4 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data.  Corporate bond markets continued their recovery amid
speculation that a strengthening economy will bolster the
ability of borrowers to meet debt payments. The global economy
will expand 4.2 percent next year and 4.6 percent in 2012, the
Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said Nov. 18 in its semi-annual economic outlook.  “Credit quality of corporates is really stellar just on
any measurement,” said Didi Weinblatt, vice president of mutual
fund portfolios at USAA Investment Management in San Antonio,
where she helps oversee about $45 billion. “They’ve got cash,
they can raise cash, they haven’t overbuilt. Their balance
sheets are in pretty good shape in general.”  Companies in the U.S. sold $844 billion of investment-grade
bonds denominated in dollars this year, a 21 percent decline
from 2009, as borrowers built a $1.17 trillion cash hoard, the
most on record when compared with the value of their assets.  Record Low Yields  Yields on U.S. investment-grade bonds sank to a record 3.53
percent on Nov. 4, rising to 4.12 percent as of yesterday,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The
measure for high-yield bonds fell to 7.55 percent on Nov. 9, the
least since March 11, 2005, when it reached 7.53 percent.  Record sales of junk bonds were led by the riskiest
borrowers. Debt rated below Caa1 by Moody’s or an equivalent
CCC+ by S&P made up 16 percent of issuance, up from 8.5 percent
in 2009.  Merck & Co., the second-largest U.S. drugmaker after Pfizer
Inc., took advantage of a one-step increase in its credit rating
by S&P to AA to sell $2 billion of five- and 10-year notes at
its lowest coupons for those maturities, Bloomberg data show.  “We were well-received in the marketplace,” Mark McDonough, treasurer of Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based
Merck, said in a telephone interview after the company’s Dec. 7
sale. “By historical standards, the interest-rate environment
was very attractive.”  Kraft, Berkshire Hathaway  The two biggest U.S. bond sales of the year came on Feb. 4,
when foodmaker  Kraft Foods Inc . sold $9.5 billion of debt to
help fund its acquisition of Cadbury Plc and Warren Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. sold $8 billion of bonds to help pay for
its purchase of railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp.  JPMorgan, the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets after Bank
of America Corp., and the finance unit of GE led non-state
guaranteed corporate bond sales in dollars, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan issued $15.4 billion of debt and
General Electric Capital Corp. offered $12.8 billion.  GE Capital, which said it accessed nine major debt markets
in 2010, plans to issue $25 billion to $30 billion of long-term
securities next year, according to GE Treasurer Kathryn Cassidy.
The company, which also plans to maintain a commercial paper
program between $40 billion and $50 billion, is preparing for
$62 billion of maturities in 2011 and “heavy” 2012 maturities
of $81 billion, Cassidy said in a Dec. 7 call with investors.  Biggest Redemptions  AT&T Inc. faces $8.5 billion in bonds coming due next year,
the most among non-financial U.S. issuers, Bloomberg data show.  Among the biggest sellers were  Bank of Nova Scotia  with
$16.1 billion in sales,  Morgan Stanley  with $11.6 billion and
Wal-Mart at $10 billion, the data show.  “Financial supply was actually lower than we thought it
would be,” said Andrew Karp, head of investment-grade debt
syndicate for the Americas at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
“The disruption in the markets relating to the European
sovereign debt crisis impaired access for a number of European
financial institutions. Additionally, the continued deleveraging
of U.S. financial institutions created less need for
institutional funding.”  Wal-Mart’s offerings included a $5 billion sale on Oct. 18
comprising three- and five-year notes with coupons that were the
lowest on record for those maturities, according to Bank of
America, one of the transaction’s managers. J&J issued $1.1
billion of 10- and 30-year debt on Aug. 12 that paid record-low
coupons, according to Citigroup, which helped arrange the sale.  JPMorgan Leads Underwriters  JPMorgan managed 13.8 percent of U.S. investment-grade
offerings, handling 496 deals worth $101.6 billion, excluding
self-led sales, Bloomberg data show. The bank held the top spot
for a third straight year. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
retained the second place, underwriting 12.5 percent of issues,
or 552 transactions worth $91.6 billion.    Citigroup Inc . held onto the third spot, a 9.6 percent
market share, with 364 deals totaling $70.5 billion, the data
show. Barclays Capital displaced Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., jumping from sixth to fourth, with 328 issues
worth $62.7 billion, an 8.5 percent share.  Financing for mergers and acquisitions may make up a
greater part of bond sales next year, according to Barclays,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan.  “We’re already seeing evidence of an uptick in M&A
financing,” said Therese Esperdy, head of global debt capital
markets in New York at JPMorgan. “That was rather muted in 2010
and I’m confident we will see a more active environment next
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  