-- German Stocks Drop, Trimming Annual Rally for Benchmark DAX Index to 16%
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-12-30T15:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/german-stocks-drop-dax-heads-for-annual-gain-as-trading-nears-2010-close.html
German stocks fell in the year’s
last session as trading volumes dwindled. The benchmark  DAX
Index  advanced 16 percent in 2010 amid optimism that global
economic growth will boost corporate profits.  Hannover Re , the world’s third-biggest reinsurer, and SAP
AG dropped today. Trading in DAX shares headed for the lowest
 volume  this year in today’s shortened session ahead of
tomorrow’s holiday.  The benchmark DAX dropped 1.2 percent to 6,914.19 at the
2:00 p.m. close of trading in Frankfurt after earlier rising as
much as 0.2 percent. About 58 million shares in the DAX changed
hands, compared with this year’s daily average of 164 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The broader  HDAX Index 
declined 1 percent today, and has climbed 18 percent this year.  The DAX this year extended a 24 percent gain from 2009 as
corporate profits rose and the U.S. Federal Reserve and
government implemented actions aimed at boosting the world’s
largest economy.  “What you have looking forward is not just monetary policy
in the U.S. that is incredibly easy, but you also have
expansionary fiscal policy,” said  Mike Lenhoff , chief
strategist in London at Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd., whose
parent company oversees $33 billion. “That has automatically
transformed the outlook for the American economy and by
extension, it has improved the outlook for the global economy.”  Debt Concern  The DAX also overcame concern this year that a sovereign-
debt crisis in the euro zone was spreading, after governments
had to bail out Greece and Ireland.  Hannover Re  dropped 1.1 percent to 40.14 euros. Munich Re,
the world’s largest reinsurer, declined 1.3 percent to 113.45
euros.  Global prices for reinsurance coverage declined 7.5 percent
for policies renewed on Jan. 1 amid high levels of capital
available in the industry, the reinsurance brokerage of Marsh &
McLennan Cos. said.  Separately, Metzler today reiterated a “sell”
recommendation on Hannover Re.  SAP AG , the world’s biggest maker of business-management
software, fell 0.8 percent to 38.10 euros.  Klaus Tschira , one of
SAP’s founders and owner of about 8.4 percent of its shares, has
“no intention” to sell his stake at the current share price
and doesn’t “see any pressure to act,” the Financial Times
reported, citing Tschira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  