-- Ghana Commercial Bank Rises Most in More Than a Week on Buying Speculation
-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2010-12-30T15:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/ghana-commercial-bank-rises-most-in-more-than-a-week-on-buying-speculation.html
Ghana Commercial Bank Ltd . rose the
most in more than a week, on bets a local institution bought
shares in the West African nation’s biggest bank by assets.  The stock climbed 9 pesewas, or 3.6 percent, to 2.60 cedis
by the 1 p.m. close in Accra. A single trade of 100,000 shares
accounted for 97 percent of volumes traded today.  A local investment house purchased the shares from a
foreign investment company, said  Jeff Foli , a broker in the
Accra office of IC Securities Ghana Ltd. He declined to provide
further detail on the buyer and seller.  “The trend is generally foreign institutions buying from a
local institution,” he said in a phone interview today. “For a
local institution to be looking for stock just gives you the
picture that there is growing interest here.”  Shares in Ghana Commercial Bank have more than tripled this
year as investors have been bullish that the government will
repay about 500 million cedis ($338 million) in outstanding debt
from the state-owned Tema Oil Refinery Ltd., Foli said.  The appointment of a new managing director in March and the
bank’s potential to capitalize on financing opportunities in
Ghana’s emerging oil and gas industry have also fuelled interest
in the shares, said Foli, who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  On Dec. 15, Ghana began pumping oil from its offshore
Jubilee field, which holds an estimated 800 million barrels of
the commodity.  Government Bond Sale  In March, Ghana’s finance ministry announced it would sell
bonds to clear 445 million cedis in debt from the refinery with
Ghana Commercial. In November, the finance ministry proposed
increasing the fuel tax in Ghana 300 percent to raise additional
funds for the refinery’s debts.  It is unclear whether revenue from the new tax would be
used to repay the oil refinery’s remaining debts with Ghana
Commercial or pay interest to government bondholders, Foli said.  The bank’s two largest shareholders are Ghana’s Social
 Security and National Insurance Trust  and the finance ministry,
which together control 51 percent of its shares, according to
the bank’s 2009 annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason McLure  in Accra on 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 