-- Gold Fluctuates as Weaker Dollar Spurs Investment Demand; Silver Advances
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2010-12-30T13:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/gold-may-rise-for-fifth-straight-day-as-investors-seek-to-preserve-wealth.html
Gold fluctuated near a three-week
high in New York as a weaker dollar spurred demand for an
alternative investment. Silver rose to a 30-year high, and
palladium reached the highest level in nine years.  The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, fell to the lowest level in almost two
weeks. Gold futures, which typically move inversely to the
dollar, reached a record $1,432.50 an ounce on Dec. 7 and
yesterday climbed to all-time highs in euros and British pounds.  “With the dollar trading lower, this is providing some
support for gold,”  Peter Fertig , owner of Quantitative
Commodity Research Ltd. in Hainburg, Germany, said today by
phone. Investor demand for a protection of wealth amid concerns
about European sovereign finances and the effect of so-called
quantitative easing in the U.S. may bolster prices, he said.  Gold futures for February delivery lost $2, or 0.1 percent,
to $1,411.50 an ounce by 8:23 a.m. on the Comex in New York,
after reaching $1,415.40, the highest price since Dec. 7. Prices
swung between a gain of 0.1 percent and a loss of 0.2 percent.
The metal for immediate delivery in London was little changed at
$1,412.10.  Borrowing Costs  Gold advanced 29 percent this year, heading for a 10th
annual gain as investors lost confidence in currencies and
bought precious metals to protect wealth. Prices climbed as
governments spent trillions of dollars and central banks kept
interest rates low to revive growth and concern mounted about
the fiscal health of euro-region countries including Ireland.  “There’s no ‘safe’ currency at the moment, so investors
choose to park their money in gold,” said  Liu Yangyi , a trader
at Beijing Zhong Jing He Investment. “Gold will continue to do
well as inflationary pressures build on rising commodity
prices.”  The dollar index slipped as much as 0.3 percent to the
lowest level since Dec. 17. It dropped from this year’s peak in
June as the Federal Reserve held borrowing costs near zero and
scheduled a second round of Treasury purchases in an effort to
stoke the U.S. economy.  Silver for March delivery in New York rose as much as 0.7
percent to $30.93 an ounce, the highest level since March
1980, and was last at $30.78. Futures reached an all-time high
of $50.35 in 1980, a year after the Hunt brothers tried to
corner the market.  Silver Demand  “There’s ample room for silver to extend its rally”
because the metal is in demand for industrial uses as well as
investment,  Chris Yoo , head of global derivatives at Samsung
Futures Inc. in Seoul, said today by phone. Silver is utilized
in industrial products from chemical catalysts to ball bearings,
according to the Washington-based Silver Institute.  “New applications for silver such as solar batteries may
rise in earnest next year, propelling silver prices higher,”
Yoo said.  Palladium for March delivery added 0.2 percent to $795 an
ounce after reaching $798, the highest price since March 2001.
Platinum for April delivery, recently up 0.2 percent at
$1,764.60 an ounce, touched $1,776, the highest level since Nov.
10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sungwoo Park  in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 