-- Groupon Raises More Than Half of $950 Million Round
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-12-30T23:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/groupon-has-raised-500-million-of-950-million-it-sought-in-funding-round.html
Groupon Inc. , the daily-deal coupon
site based in  Chicago , has raised more than half the funds in a
financing round that could generate as much as $950 million.  The equity offering brought in more than $500 million,
Groupon said today in a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. That leaves about $450 million remaining in
the funding round, the company said.  Chief Executive Officer Andrew Mason is raising money after
walking away from a $6 billion acquisition offer from  Google
Inc . on Dec. 3. The company is trying to maintain its lead over
rivals such as LivingSocial, which received $183 million in an
investment round led by  Amazon.com Inc . earlier this month.  Those investing in Groupon include Digital Sky
Technologies,  Fidelity Investments  and Morgan Stanley, according
to the technology blog  TechCrunch . The deal values Groupon at
$4.75 billion, TechCrunch said. Digital Sky led an earlier round
of financing in Groupon valuing the company at $1.3 billion.  A portion of the money raised is being used to buy back
shares from existing stakeholders, according to the filing.
Private companies must keep the number of shareholders below 500
or they are subject to reporting requirements by the SEC.  Groupon had been considering raising money from investors
when it entered the talks with Google. Founded in 2008, the
company may generate more than $500 million in sales this year,
people familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  Deep Discounts  The daily-deal site offers discounts of as much as 90
percent from businesses such as restaurants, nail salons and
clothing stores. It then keeps a portion of the revenue. The
promotions activate once enough people sign up for them.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  Last week, Groupon hired Jason Child, Amazon.com’s former
vice president of finance, to be its chief financial officer.
That raised speculation that the company would press ahead with
an initial public offering. The new funding round decreases
pressure to do an IPO in 2011, said Greg Sterling, an analyst at
Internet2Go, an advisory service that’s part of Opus Research in  San Francisco . Eventually, the new investors will want a way to
earn a return, he said.  “Ultimately, they need to go public unless somebody’s going
to come forward with a super massive offer,” he said yesterday
in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  