-- Iran Currency Gridlock May Raise India’s Oil Costs
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2010-12-30T10:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/indian-refiners-may-be-forced-to-buy-oil-at-higher-price-amid-iran-payment.html
Indian refiners including  Indian Oil
Corp.  may be forced to buy crude at higher prices from the spot
market as they seek details from India’s central bank on the
method of payment to Iran, its second-biggest supplier.  “We are awaiting clarity on the payment mechanism,”  B.M. Bansal , chairman of Indian Oil, the nation’s biggest refiner,
said by telephone from Chennai. “If the volumes we import from
Iran becomes unavailable, we may have to go elsewhere for the
crude and that may impact prices.”  India’s central bank on Dec. 27 said companies will be
allowed to settle current account and trade transactions with
Iran outside the Asian Clearing Union or ACU, a regional payment
arrangement. This dismantled a mechanism used to complete
payments for oil. Participants in the ACU settle transactions in
either dollar or euro, according to the ACU’s website.  ACU, based in the Iranian capital Tehran, settles trade
transactions from Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Iran, Nepal,
Pakistan, Maldives, Myanmar and Sri Lanka.  “I don’t think there will be an impasse and in sometime a
solution will be arrived at,”  B. Mukherjee , director of finance
at state-run refiner Hindustan Petroleum Corp. or HPCL, said in
a telephone interview from Mumbai.  The central banks of India and Iran may meet in Mumbai
tomorrow to discuss the payment mechanism for crude purchases,
Oil Secretary  S. Sundareshan  told reporters in New Delhi today.  “We are hoping an alternate payment mechanism will be in
place in the next few days,” he said. “Alternate mechanism
payments could be in any currency, yen, their local currency.”  Import Bill  India spent $57 billion on crude imports in the eight
months ended Nov. 30, according to data of the website of the
 Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell , a division of the oil
ministry. The import bill in the year ended March 31 was $38.8
billion, according to the website.  HPCL said there is time to sort out the payment system.
“From our side, we have no problem in making payments,”
Mukherjee said. “We were paying in dollars at one point of time,
subsequently in euros. We are prepared to pay in rials also.”  “We get 90 days of credit from NIOC. That’s a long time,
and I am sure it will be sorted out by then,” he said,
referring to state-run National Iranian Oil Co.  Indian Oil imports about 3 million metric tons a year from
Iran under a term contract, Bansal said. Hindustan Petroleum
also buys about 3 million tons, according to Mukherjee.  MRPL Imports  Reliance Industries Ltd. , owner of the world’s largest
refining complex, doesn’t import any crude from Iran,  Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for the Mumbai-based company, said by
telephone today.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. , or BPCL, doesn’t “have much
imports” from Iran,  S.K. Joshi , director of finance at the
state-run refiner, said by telephone today.  “We have requested that until alternate arrangements are
made, the current mechanism of payments continue,”  U.K. Basu ,
Managing Director of  Mangalore Refinery  and Petrochemicals Ltd.,
the biggest buyer of Iranian crude, said by telephone today. The
refiner, a unit of state-run  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , India’s
biggest energy explorer, buys about 7 million tons of crude from
Iran every year, he said.  Swastayan Roy, a spokesman for the Essar Group, declined to
comment. Essar operates a 210,000 barrel-a-day  refinery  in
western India.  Nuclear Ambitions  The United Nations in June stepped up punitive measures
against Iran over its nuclear ambitions, applying a fourth round
of sanctions, and the U.S. and European Union later imposed
additional restrictions. Iran says it is enriching uranium for
power generation.  The U.S. has stepped up pressure on Iran’s banks and the
country’s national security leadership, and on companies that
invest in Iran’s energy industry.  Oil Secretary Sundareshan said today Indian imports about
21 million tons of crude from Iran annually. It is the country’s
second-biggest supplier after Saudi Arabia, Oil Minister  Murli Deora  said in parliament April 15.  Crude oil has gained 15 percent this year and was trading
at $91.07 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange at 6:07 p.m. in Singapore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
 Pratish Narayanan  in Mumbai 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell@bloomberg.net . 