-- Indonesia Can Achieve `Sustainable' Economic Growth of 8%, Ambassador Says
-- B y   G r e g   A h l s t r a n d   a n d   F e m i   A d i
-- 2010-12-30T21:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/indonesia-can-achieve-sustainable-8-growth-ambassador-says.html
  Indonesia  can achieve economic
growth of 8 percent that is driven by domestic as well as
international investment, if regulatory clarity and
infrastructure in the country are improved, U.S. Ambassador Scot Marciel said.  “Indonesia’s growing around 6 percent this year,” Marciel
said in an interview in his office at the U.S. Embassy in
Jakarta. “I think that could reach 8 percent sustainably,
without tremendous difficulty, by addressing some of the
infrastructure issues and opening up a little bit more.”  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  seeks to expand
Southeast Asia’s biggest economy by as much as 7.7 percent and
create 10.7 million jobs by the end of his second term in 2014,
he said in his annual state-of-the-nation address Aug. 16.
Indonesia also aims to cut the poverty rate by about a third to
between 8 percent and 10 percent over the next four years.  “It’s not so much about making it attractive to foreign
investors,” said Marciel, who was named ambassador in August.
“To the extent Indonesia can work on infrastructure, and
improve transparency and the regulatory environment and battle
corruption, it creates a good environment for Indonesian
businesses. Then foreign business will also find it
attractive.”  Indonesia’s ranking in  Transparency International ’s 2009
corruption perception index improved to 111 from 126 in 2008,
according to the watchdog’s website. It gained one place to 110
 this year , 24 slots above the  Philippines . The index measures
the perceived level of public-sector corruption in 178 countries
and territories around the world, the website says.  Roads, Ports, Rails  Inadequate roads, ports and railways mean orange juice from
the Indonesian side of Borneo costs more than that from  China ,
four times as far away, the Indonesia Logistics Association said
in January. Logistics costs are the equivalent of 25 percent of
gross domestic product in Indonesia, versus 19 percent in  Thailand  and 10 percent in the U.S., it said.  During U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s visit to Indonesia in
November, he and Yudhoyono announced the Comprehensive
Partnership, under which the countries will cooperate on
education, environmental and climate change issues, defense and
security, science and technology, investment and trade.  “We’ve made education a high priority; specifically trying
to increase the number of students from Indonesia studying in
the United States, and from the United States studying in
Indonesia,” Marciel said. “Also to try to build partnerships
between universities.”  Scholarship Drive  The U.S. will commit about $165 million over five years to
promote cooperation on education, including scholarships such as
the Fulbright program, funding for Indonesian students to study
at U.S. community colleges and English-language training,
Marciel said. Indonesia will provide 100 scholarships for
American students to study in Indonesia, he said.  “We need to do a better job of making U.S. education
accessible to Indonesians,” he said. “Over the past 10 to 12
years, the number of Indonesian students studying in the U.S.
has actually fallen.”  The decrease is partly due to concern over costs, and
partly to a “misperception” that a student visa is difficult
to get, Marciel said. That misperception stems from revisions to
visa procedures implemented after Sept. 11, 2001, he said.  “A lot of the problems or obstacles that came out of that
have been dealt with, but the perception remains that it is
extremely difficult to get a visa,” Marciel said. “We need to
continue to explain to people that it’s very possible.”  Military Cooperation  In July, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said the U.S. will
begin a “measured and gradual” relationship with the elite
Indonesian military unit known as Kopassus after a 12-year gap.
The decision to restore links was possible due to Indonesia’s
progress in professionalizing the military since the fall of the
dictator Suharto, Gates said at the time.  The move was  criticized  by New York-based Human Rights
Watch, which said it “weakens U.S. standards for military
cooperation globally.” U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee
member  Russ Feingold , a Wisconsin Democrat, also said he was
“disappointed” by Gates’s announcement.  “Secretary Gates announced in July that we would begin
taking limited steps toward re-engagement with Kopassus,”
Marciel said. “That had not been possible in the past because
of lack of accountability for past human-rights violations.”  Move to Democracy  Marciel said Gates stressed that the decision was based on
Indonesia’s move to democracy, improved human rights record, and
changes to the military, and that it would start with staff-
level talks, which to date has been the extent of the engagement.  Regarding videos that surfaced in October showing men in
military clothing torturing Papuan civilians, Marciel said:
“The Indonesian leadership has made it clear the human-rights
violations depicted in those videos is unacceptable. There’s
nothing that I’ve seen that suggests that was Kopassus.”  Indonesian police had assured the U.S. that they were
committed to investigating the videos and bringing the
perpetrators to justice, he said.  “We are watching this very carefully,” Marciel said.  A challenge the U.S. faces in developing its relationship
with Indonesia is convincing Indonesians it doesn’t have a
hidden agenda, Marciel said.  “Indonesia is a democracy, and the people and the
government have to decide what’s most important to them,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Ahlstrand in Jakarta at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  