-- Iraq Civilian Deaths Drop for Third Year as Toll Eases After U.S. Drawdown
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-12-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/iraq-civilian-deaths-drop-for-third-year-as-toll-eases-after-u-s-drawdown.html
The number of civilians who died as
a result of violence in Iraq dropped for a third straight year
in 2010, with improvement accelerating after the U.S. declared
the official end of combat operations, a nonprofit group
reported.  Civilian deaths from violence fell 15 percent to 3,976 this
year as of Dec. 25, from 4,680 a year earlier, according to a
report released today by U.K.-based  Iraq Body Count .  Two-thirds of civilian deaths this year were caused by
bombings attributed by authorities to sectarian and terrorist
groups such as al-Qaeda in Iraq, the report said. Actions by
U.S. troops led directly to 32 civilian deaths this year,
compared with 64 in 2009, according to the group.  The overall civilian toll dropped by half in the first
month after the U.S. declared the official end of combat
operations in late August, and stayed at the lower levels
through the end of the year.  Still, year-on-year improvement is slowing. The 15 percent
drop this year compares with a decline of 50 percent in 2009
from a year earlier and 63 percent in 2008 from the height of
the conflict the year before, the group said.  “The 2010 data suggest a persistent low-level conflict in
Iraq that will continue to kill civilians at a similar rate for
years to come,” said Iraq Body Count, which aims to track the
civilian toll of the 2003 U.S.-led invasion.  ‘Casualties Diminishing’  The U.S. military doesn’t release civilian casualty figures
for Iraq.  “We at United States Forces-Iraq have continued to see the
trend in casualties diminishing dramatically over the past two
years,” Army Major Rob Phillips, a spokesman in Baghdad, said
in an e-mail. He cited the “improvement of overall security in
the country and the increased capability of the Iraqi Security
Forces.”  This year’s number of civilian deaths from violence brings
the total since the invasion to 108,391 as of Dec. 25, according
to Iraq Body Count. President  Barack Obama  took office in
January 2009 pledging to bring an end to U.S. involvement in the
war. He drew closer to the goal with the exit of all but 50,000
troops this year and the transition to a primarily advisory and
assistance role.  The number of U.S. soldiers who have died in Iraq since the
invasion totals 4,433, including 3,496 killed in action,
according to the Pentagon.  Withdrawal Timetable  The U.S. plans to withdraw its remaining troops by the end
of 2011 in accordance with a U.S.-Iraq agreement forged under
then-President  George W. Bush . While Obama administration
officials have said they are open to discussing an extension,
Iraq’s government won’t consider the issue until its newly
appointed officials are in place, the country’s ambassador to
Washington said last month.  “There has been more talk of this idea in Washington than
in Baghdad,” Ambassador  Samir Sumaida’ie  said in an interview.  Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki  was quoted Dec. 28 by the
Wall Street Journal as saying in an interview that “the last
American soldier will leave Iraq” as agreed and that the accord
is “not subject to extension.”  Iraq’s parliament last week approved Maliki’s ministerial
appointments after months of wrangling among parties that
followed an election earlier this year in which no party won a
clear majority. Concerns that the delay in forming a government
might escalate violence proved unfounded, even as periodic high-
profile attacks took their toll.  City Violence  In the early part of the year, the northern city of Mosul,
with an estimated population of 1.8 million, suffered the most
violence, Iraq Body Count reported. By later in the year, the
highest number of incidents was occurring in Baghdad, which has
6.5 million residents.  Civilian losses made up 78 percent of the 5,120 documented
violent deaths in Iraq for 2010, including the 60 U.S. forces
killed this year and the Iraqi government’s figures of 408 Iraqi
soldiers and 676 insurgents who died, Iraq Body Count said.  Iraqi forces’ operations resulted in the deaths of 96 non-
combatants in 2010, down from 103 a year earlier, the report
said.  Non-state forces were responsible for an average of two
explosions a day, according to Iraq Body Count. Such attacks
killed 2,605 civilians and accounted for 66 percent of all Iraqi
civilian deaths during the year, the report said.  “After nearly eight years, the security crisis in Iraq
remains notable for its sheer relentlessness,” Iraq Body Count
said.  The group tallies deaths of non-combatants killed by
military or paramilitary action and the breakdown of security
following the invasion. The data come from cross-checked media
reports, hospitals, morgues, non-governmental organizations and
official figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 