-- Israeli Court Finds Former President Katsav Guilty on Two Charges of Rape
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-12-30T13:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/israeli-court-convicts-former-president-katsav-of-rape-army-radio-reports.html
An Israeli court convicted former
president  Moshe Katsav  on two counts of rape, in what the prime
minister called “a sad day for Israel.”  Katsav was also convicted of sexual harassment and
committing indecent acts. The charges relate to the time when
Katsav served as president and tourism minister and were based
on accusations brought by former employees. Katsav, who can
appeal the ruling, had claimed his innocence and accused
prosecutors of maligning his character. The minimum rape
sentence is four years.  “The court today delivered two clear messages, one being
that everyone is equal in the eyes of the law and the second the
right of every woman to be in control of her own body,” Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said in a text message.  Katsav stepped down as president, a mainly ceremonial
position, in January 2007 after Attorney General  Menachem Mazuz 
first said there was evidence for an indictment.  Shimon Peres ,
the former Israeli prime minister who shared the Nobel Prize for
pursuing peace with the Palestinians, succeeded Katsav as
president.  “This is the most serious crime brought against an Israeli
government official,”  Oren Gazal-Ayal , an expert in criminal
law at Haifa University, said by phone. “These charges are much
harsher than any of the white-collar crimes we have seen in the
past.”  Other Indictments  Since 2008, Israeli courts have indicted former Israeli
Prime Minister  Ehud Olmert  for fraud, sentenced former Finance
Minister  Avraham Hirschson  to five years imprisonment for theft
and money laundering, and convicted former Health Minister
 Shlomo Benizri  of taking bribes.  The three-judge panel today said in its verdict that the
testimony of one of the witnesses, who has only been identified
as “A,” was trustworthy and reliable, and said that Katsav’s
version of events was not credible.  The verdict said Katsav twice raped a woman who worked for
him while he was tourism minister. It also described
inappropriate hugs, phone calls and comments he made to others
who worked for him while he was president.  Gazal-Ayal said that while the former president can appeal
his conviction, the Tel Aviv District Court’s decision was
factual, there are few legal issues at stake and the Supreme
Court may not agree to hear the case.  Katsav was elected to the Knesset in 1977 as a member of
the Likud Party and served as a lawmaker until he became
president in 2000.  Katsav was the second Israeli president in a row to leave
office prematurely.  Ezer Weizman  stepped down in 2000 following
revelations that he received money from business associates
without reporting it to the authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at   lmeixler@bloomberg.net  