-- Ivory Coast President's Supporters Threaten to `Liberate' Opponent's Base
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-30T19:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/ivory-coast-leader-s-supporters-plan-to-seize-opponent-s-base.html
Supporters of Ivory Coast President
Laurent Gbagbo threatened to seize a hotel occupied by Alassane Ouattara, the winner of last month’s presidential vote, as the
country’s new envoy to the United Nations warned the nation is
“on the brink of genocide.”  Gbagbo’s backers plan to “liberate” the building on Jan.
1, Youth and Employment Minister Charles Ble Goude said on state
television late yesterday. Ble Goude is also the leader of the
Young Patriots, who are militant supporters of Gbagbo.  Ouattara has been holed up at the Golf Hotel in Abidjan,
the commercial capital, since the start of a dispute over the
results of the Nov. 28 election. The 68-year-old opposition
leader, who is being protected by UN peacekeepers, is regarded
by the UN, the African Union and the U.S. as the winner of the
vote. Gbagbo, the incumbent, has refused to step down.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon “wishes to warn that any
attack against peacekeepers constitutes a crime under
international law, for which the perpetrators and those who
instigate them will be held accountable,” according to an e-
mailed statement from Ban’s office.  The political crisis has fueled violence in the West
African country, with at least 173 people being killed and 90
more being tortured, according to the UN. Ivory Coast is the
world’s biggest cocoa producer. Cocoa for March delivery has
risen almost 8 percent since the election on London’s Liffe
exchange.  The election was meant to stabilize Ivory Coast after a
2002 civil war split the nation between a government-controlled
south and rebel-held north.  Cocoa Exports  Ivory Coast produces 33 percent of the world’s cocoa,
according to the International Cocoa Organization’s  website .
Exports of the chocolate ingredient generate more than a quarter
of export earnings in sub-Saharan Africa’s seventh-biggest
economy. Cargill Inc., the largest closely held U.S. company
which buys and exports cocoa beans in Ivory Coast, said on Dec.
20 it removed its “small number” of expatriate employees from
the country.  Youssoufou Bamba, who presented his credentials as
Ouattara’s envoy to the UN in New York yesterday, said that he
appealed to Ban for action by peacekeepers to stop a “massive
violation of human rights” in the country.  “The situation is very serious,” Bamba told reporters
after meeting with Ban in New York. “Houses have been marked
according to your tribe. What will be next? Something should be
done.”  Bamba didn’t explicitly call for military action against
Gbagbo and his supporters, though he said the mandate of UN
peacekeepers to protect civilians in Ivory Coast should be
fulfilled by the UN soldiers and civilian police there.  ‘Legitimate Force’  The  Economic Community of West African States  said on Dec.
24 it would consider the use of “legitimate force” to remove
Gbagbo if he continues to ignore international calls to quit.  West African leaders met with Gbagbo on Dec. 28 to press
him to give up the leadership. They plan a second round of talks
next month. Presidents Thomas Boni Yayi of Benin, Pedro Pires of
Cape Verde and Ernest Koroma of Sierra Leone yesterday briefed
Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan, the current chairman of
Ecowas, in Abuja, Nigeria’s capital.  “I’m really impatient to begin implementing my program,”
Ouattara told reporters at the Golf Hotel in Abidjan today. “At
the same time, my duty is to preserve human life. That is why
I’m trying to be patient. I’m doing my best to avoid any more
suffering for the Ivorian people.”  Inciting Hate  The UN accused  Radiodiffusion Television Ivoirienne , the
state broadcaster, of inciting “hate” and spreading “numerous
false accusations” against UN peacekeepers in the country. RTI
is “spreading propaganda against the UN operation in Ivory
Coast,” Alain LeRoy, under-secretary general for peacekeeping
operations, told reporters yesterday in Abidjan.  On Dec. 28, a three-vehicle UN convoy was attacked by a
“large crowd” and one soldier was slashed with a machete and a
vehicle set on fire, the UN said in a statement yesterday. The
UN sent peacekeepers into the country in 2004 to monitor the
cease-fire, and currently has about 9,000 soldiers and civilian
police there.  The U.S. dispatched a Defense Department team to Ivory
Coast to review contingency measures should the escalating
violence require the evacuation of diplomats, State Department
spokesman Mark Toner told reporters yesterday on a conference
call.  Just a Threat  An Ecowas-led military intervention, similar to those
carried out in Liberia and Sierra Leone in the 1990s, probably
isn’t imminent as West African nations may not have the
political will, said Kwesi Aning, head of the conflict
prevention program at the Accra-based Kofi Annan International
Peacekeeping Training Centre.  “I think the threat of intervention has only been used as
a stick to threaten Gbagbo,” Aning said in an interview from
Luton, England, yesterday. “The countries who would lead such
an intervention have other domestic priorities right now.”  Nigeria, which has West Africa’s largest army, holds
presidential elections in April.  The arrest and trial of former Liberian President Charles Taylor, who quit power for asylum in Nigeria, may also make
Gbagbo warier of leaving office, according to Aning and Cyril
Obi, a senior researcher on West Africa at the  Nordic Africa
Institute  in Uppsala, Sweden. Taylor was arrested in Nigeria in
March 2006 and handed over to the Special Court for Sierra
Leone, which is trying him for crimes against humanity in the
country’s 11-year civil war.  At least one African country has offered Gbagbo asylum if
he leaves office, U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for
African Affairs William Fitzgerald said on Dec. 20.  Gbagbo will seek solid guarantees of immunity before he
leaves power, Obi said in an interview yesterday. “The question
is that who else can offer him a safe haven with strong enough
guarantees,” Obi said. Charles Taylor’s “safe haven gave him
up and sold him down the river and he’s ended up in The Hague.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier and Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 