-- J. Crew Seeks $1.85 Billion Financing to Fund $3 Billion Leveraged Buyout
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2010-12-30T18:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/j-crew-seeks-1-85-billion-financing-to-fund-3-billion-leveraged-buyout.html
J. Crew Group Inc. , the clothing
retailer, is seeking $1.85 billion of debt to help fund its $3
billion  buyout  by TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners LP.  Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are
arranging a $1 billion seven-year term loan, $600 million in
senior unsecured notes and a $250 million five-year asset-based
revolving line of credit, according to a commitment letter
attached to a regulatory  filing .  J. Crew will pay an interest rate of 4.5 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate on the term loan and
a margin of 2.5 percentage points more than the lending
benchmark on the revolver, according to the filing. Libor, the
rate banks charge to lend each other, will have a 1.5 percent
floor.  In a revolving credit line, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. Borrowings under an
asset-based revolver are tied to a company’s accounts
receivables and inventory.  If New York-based J. Crew fails to sell the $600 million
notes by the time the buyout is completed, it may borrow up to
the same amount under a bridge loan, with an initial interest
rate of 8 percentage points more than Libor, with a 1.5 percent
floor, according to the filing.  TPG and Leonard Green will finance their acquisition with a
combined equity investment of up to $1.2 billion, according to a
separate regulatory filing. Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG will
invest up to $853 million of equity, while Los Angeles-based
Leonard Green will contribute up to $317 million, the filing
said.  The leveraged buyout will also be funded with $100 million
of rollover equity and $312 million of cash, according to the
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine  Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 