-- Jindal Petroleum May Build First Oil Refinery at Georgia Exploration Site
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2010-12-31T04:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/jindal-petroleum-may-build-first-oil-refinery-at-georgia-exploration-site.html
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd., India’s
second-biggest maker of the alloy by market value, plans to
build its first oil refinery to expand its energy business in
the domestic and overseas markets.  Unit Jindal Petroleum Ltd. may set up the refinery with a
capacity of 1 million metric tons near fields it’s exploring in
Georgia to “test waters,” Sushil K. Maroo, group chief
financial officer, said in an interview in New Delhi yesterday.  Jindal Steel, controlled by lawmaker Naveen Jindal, joins
Indian Oil Corp., the country’s largest refiner, in seeking to
build a processing plant overseas to sell fuels. The group has
five oil and gas blocks in Georgia and one in Bolivia and is
looking for more areas in and around Kazakhstan, Maroo said.  “It will show the company’s commitment in Georgia and
improve its chances of getting more oil and gas assets there,”
said Niraj Shah, an analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers Ltd. in
Mumbai.  Jindal Steel shares gained 0.2 percent to 722.85 rupees at
9:21 a.m. in Mumbai trading after declining as much as 0.4
percent. The stock has climbed 3 percent this year compared with
a 17 percent increase in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  The five blocks in Georgia have combined estimated
recoverable reserves of 141 million barrels of oil and 592
billion cubic feet of natural gas, according to Jindal Steel’s
 website . Current production is about 550 barrels a day from one
field.  Oil Production  The East European nation produced about 1,000 barrels a day
and consumed 15,000 barrels a day in 2009, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration  website . The former Soviet
state had no crude oil refining capacity as of last year.  Crude oil for February delivery declined as much as 32
cents, or 0.4 percent, to $89.52 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange and was at $89.75 at 10:02 a.m. Singapore
time. Prices, which have increased 13 percent since Dec. 31,
2009, are poised to end the year at the highest level since 2007.  Jindal’s energy business in India includes a stake in an
exploration block in Rajasthan and electricity generation.
Jindal Steel’s power unit filed share-sale documents with the
market regulator a year ago, proposing to raise 72 billion
rupees ($1.6 billion) in the nation’s biggest initial public
offering by a utility in three years.  “The share sale will happen after January,” Maroo said.
“Clarity on timing will emerge only around middle of next month.
The market is good for an initial public offer and we are
expecting a good response.”  Power Projects  Jindal Power Ltd.  will use the IPO funds for three projects
in Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand states with a combined capacity of
4,380 megawatts, Maroo said. The Chhattisgarh project has yet to
get environment approval for expansion to 2,400 megawatts.  “The company cannot be approaching investors with its most
immediate project awaiting environmental clearance,” said Tanuj Rastogi, an analyst with Marwadi Share & Finance Ltd. in Mumbai.  An environment ministry panel recommended approval for the
expansion at Chhattisgarh, where a 1,000 megawatt plant is
operational, Jindal Power said Dec. 3.  The Jindal group has sought bids for the supply of
generators for an additional 11,020 megawatts. It is targeting
generation capacity of 15,000 megawatts in the next decade,
according to its website.  “We have not yet decided on the locations for this
additional capacity,” Maroo said. “The tenders have been
floated only to save on time.”  The company also plans to build 6,100 megawatts of hydro
power capacity at an estimated cost of 372 billion rupees. The
feasibility report for the three projects, all in the
northeastern state of Arunachal Pradesh, will be ready in less
than two years, Maroo said.  “We are also planning to set up 100 megawatts of wind
power capacity,” he said. “We are evaluating the idea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 