-- U.S. Economy: Jobless Claims Drop to Two-Year Low
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-30T21:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/jobless-claims-in-u-s-decreased-more-than-estimated-to-388-000-last-week.html
Claims for jobless benefits dropped
last week to the lowest level in two years, showing the U.S.
labor market is taking a turn for the better as the economy
accelerates into 2011.  Applications for unemployment assistance decreased by
34,000 to 388,000 in the week ended Dec. 25, breaking the
400,000 level for the first time since July 2008, according to
Labor Department figures today in  Washington . Other data showed
businesses expanded this month at the fastest pace in two
decades and pending home sales climbed in November for the
fourth time in five months.  Firings may keep easing as a pickup in consumer spending
prompts employers to retain staff, a necessary step toward
increases in employment that will sustain demand. Gains in
business investment and exports to growing emerging economies
may keep factories churning out goods in the coming year, while
more jobs may also help housing stabilize.  “The economy is gathering momentum,”  John Silvia , chief
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “The
character of the recovery is a little more solid. Job growth
will be stronger and that will help the consumer.”  Stocks declined as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s
highest valuation since June overshadowed the economic data. The
S&P 500 fell 0.2 percent to 1,257.88 at the 4 p.m. close in  New
York . The benchmark 10-year Treasury note declined, pushing the
yield up to 3.37 percent from 3.35 percent late yesterday.  Better Than Forecast  The median forecast of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected claims would drop to 415,000. Estimates ranged
from 395,000 to 430,000. The Labor Department revised the prior
week’s figures to 422,000 from a previously reported 420,000.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
business barometer rose to 68.6 this month, exceeding the most
optimistic forecast of economists surveyed and the highest level
since July 1988. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  Reports showing consumer spending is picking up mean
retailers will need to restock shelves, giving manufacturing a
further lift. Holiday sales this year jumped 5.5 percent for the
best performance since 2005, MasterCard Advisors’ SpendingPulse,
which measures purchases by all payment forms, said this week.  “Once the American consumer starts kicking in, we will see
stronger orders data,” Silvia said. “New orders will follow
the better business confidence that is showing up.”  Multiyear Highs  The Chicago group’s bookings and production gauges climbed
to the highest levels in six years, while employment increased
to a five-year high.  The number of contracts to buy previously owned homes rose
more than forecast in November, a sign sales are recovering
following a post-tax credit plunge, figures from the National
Association of Realtors also showed today.  The index of pending resales increased 3.5 percent after
jumping a record 10 percent in October. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for a 0.8 percent rise in November, and
the group’s data go back to 2001.  Home demand is stabilizing after sales collapsed to a
record low in July, as the effects of a tax incentive worth as
much as $8,000 waned. A jobless rate hovering near 10 percent
means foreclosures will remain elevated and any recovery in
housing, the industry that precipitated the worst recession
since the 1930s, will take time to develop.  “Very Strong Note’  “We’re ending the year on a very strong note,” said
Conrad DeQuadros, a senior economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New
York. “This recovery is looking more sustainable. The labor
market is improving, and the manufacturing numbers are quite
robust. We’re seeing further stabilization in home resales.”  While last week’s claims data covered the Christmas
holiday, leaving jobless Americans with one less day to file for
benefits, a Labor Department spokesman said there was “nothing
unusual” in the tally.  The four-week moving average, which helps eliminate week-
to-week distortions, also dropped to the lowest since July 2008.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
rose by 57,000 in the week ended Dec. 18 to 4.13 million. The
continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
151,500 to 4.53 million in the week ended Dec. 11.  New Stimulus  President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 17 signed into law an $858
billion bill extending for two years Bush-era tax cuts for all
income levels. The measure also continues expanded jobless
insurance benefits to the long-term unemployed for 13 months and
reduces payroll taxes for workers by two percentage points
during 2011.  Businesses adding workers include  Motorola Inc ., the
Schaumburg, Illinois-based maker of mobile phones.  “We have been” hiring, co-Chief Executive Officer Greg
Brown said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Dec. 15. Even
so, “we need to create jobs faster.”  The Labor Department’s monthly jobs report next week will
show payroll gains picked up in December after employers added a
fewer-than-forecast 39,000 jobs last month, according the
economists surveyed. The jobless rate fell to 9.7 percent from
9.8 percent in November, the survey also showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  