-- Natural-Gas Futures Climb on Forecasts for Below-Normal U.S. Temperatures
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-12-30T15:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/natural-gas-futures-climb-on-forecasts-for-below-normal-u-s-temperatures.html
Natural gas futures climbed to a
two-week high on forecasts of colder-than-normal weather that
may boost demand for the heating fuel.  Gas futures rose as temperatures may be below-normal in the
Midwest and Southeast from Jan. 9 through Jan. 13, according to
MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville,
Maryland. Earlier forecasts had shown normal or above-normal
temperatures in the Midwest.  “We’re seeing some very cold temperatures,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research for PFGBest in Chicago. “For
the first time all winter, there seem to be some cracks in the
bearish natural gas armor.”  Natural gas for February delivery rose 4.7 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $4.334 per million British thermal units at 9:47
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices earlier reached
$4.364 per million Btu, the highest intraday price since Dec.
14. The futures have gained 6.1 percent this week and are down
22 percent this year.  The low temperature in Chicago on Jan. 12 may be 3 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 16 Celsius), 13 degrees below normal,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania.
The low in Detroit may be 8 degrees Fahrenheit, 10 degrees below
normal.  “Initially, this cold will impact areas from the Northwest
to Northern Plains, but it should gradually work into the
Midwest and South as well,” MDA forecasters led by  Travis Hartman  said in a note to clients.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Supply Report  The department may report a larger-than-average withdrawal
from gas  inventories  for the week ended Dec. 24 after cold
weather in the eastern U.S. last week, analysts predicted.  The
data may show a reduction in stockpiles of 143 billion cubic
feet for the week ended Dec. 24, above the five-year average
withdrawal of 118 billion, according to the median of 19 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The inventory report is scheduled for release at 10:30 a.m.
in Washington.  U.S. gas inventories as of Dec. 17 totaled 3.368 trillion
cubic feet, 8.5 percent above the five-year average and 1.6
percent below year-earlier levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  