-- Navy Officials Paid for Northrop Golf Outing, Air Shows Travel, Audit Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-12-30T20:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/navy-paid-northrop-206-000-for-golf-outing-air-show-travel-audit-says.html
Northrop Grumman Corp.  was paid at
least $206,000 by Navy contracts officials for “questionable”
travel billings to a golf outing and international air shows,
according to an audit by the Pentagon’s inspector general.  While Northrop Grumman subsequently reduced its billings by
that amount after inquiries by the inspector general, “there is
a potential for additional unallowable expenses charged” by the
contractor, according to the Dec. 23  audit  report.  The billing and payment of travel to a golf outing and to
air shows in Paris and Singapore are emblematic of “serious
problems with the overall management” of a $1.8 billion
contract to develop the Navy’s first high-altitude drone for
long-range surveillance, the report said. The development
contract is the first part of a potential $19 billion program
for 68 aircraft.  Altogether, Navy contracting officials didn’t thoroughly
review or validate 39 bills to ensure  Northrop Grumman  was
entitled to $329.3 million in payments so far, and haven’t made
sure the contractor has an adequate inventory system to
safeguard millions of dollars in government-furnished equipment,
according to the audit report.  “As a result, the program is at risk for increased costs,
schedule delays and not meeting the needs of the warfighter,”
it said.  “Northrop Grumman is aware of the audit report and is
working with the Naval Air Systems Command to fully understand
its recommendations and potential changes to the program,”
 Randy Belote , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. Belote
didn’t comment specifically on the challenged travel vouchers.  More Drones  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has pressed the military to
make greater use of drones. The Pentagon’s aviation plan calls
for increasing -- to more than 800 by 2020, from 220 today --the
number of high-altitude drones like the new one from Northrop.  Los Angeles-based Northrop Grumman in 2008 beat out  Boeing
Co.  of Chicago, and  Lockheed Martin Corp.  of Bethesda, Maryland,
for the $1.8 billion contract to develop and build the first two
demonstration aircraft in the Navy program. Northrop will also
build an additional three advanced models.  The aircraft has been flying over the Persian Gulf region
since February 2009 on experimental patrols.  Navy officials have said they are satisfied with the
drone’s performance so far.  Still, the Naval Air Systems Command contract officials for
the  Broad Area Maritime Surveillance  program “did not properly
perform all their assigned duties, comply with federal and
Pentagon policies or complete required training,” said the
audit, signed by  Richard Jolliffe , assistant inspector general
for acquisition and contract management.  Review Recommended  The inspector general recommended an “administrative
review” by the Navy for potential disciplinary actions against
contract officials.  In a written response to the report, Diane Balderson, the
Naval Air Systems assistant commander for contracts, rejected
the recommendation for an inquiry, saying the officials have
been reviewed during annual and semi-annual appraisals.  “Based on these reviews, there have been no actions
identified that would warrant further review,” Balderson wrote.  Jolliffe asked Balderson to reconsider because “our report
discloses serious problems with overall management” that were
not known during the most recent personnel appraisals of the
officials.  ‘Best Value’  Naval Air Systems spokesman Victor Chen said in an e-mail
that Navy officials will work with the Pentagon’s Defense
Contract Audit Agency and Defense Contract Management Agency
“on an ongoing basis to ensure program objectives are met,
ensure billing accuracy and taxpayers receive best value for
their funds.”  Pentagon auditors identified 17 “unallowable” vouchers,
eight of which were submitted by one unnamed Northrop Grumman
official at its Bethpage, New York,  Aerospace Systems  facility.  Northrop so far reduced its billings by $206,000 to reflect
the unallowable payments, said the audit.  Still,“a Northrop Grumman official said that they did not
review all travel vouchers or any other charge related to the
contract,” said the audit. “Therefore, there is potential for
additional unallowable expenses charged and paid” to Northrop
Grumman.  The audit recommended the Navy increase scrutiny of
Northrop Grumman travel vouchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  