-- New York Delays Decision on Takeover of Nassau County Finances on Deficit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-12-30T21:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/new-york-state-agency-defers-nassau-county-seizure-decision-until-jan-20.html
A state authority postponed a
decision on whether to seize control of Nassau County’s finances
to give local officials time to show how they will close a $343
million budget  deficit .  The  Nassau County Interim Finance Authority , after meeting
privately for more than three hours today in Uniondale, made the
announcement after an appeal by County Executive Edward Mangano,
who identified $241.9 million in cost savings. NIFA gave Nassau
County until Jan. 20 to report on how those plans are
sufficient.  “We’re giving the county one final opportunity to present
its case that its budget is balanced,” said authority Chairman
Ronald Stack.  The state created NIFA in 2000 to sell bonds and oversee
operations while the county worked out earlier deficits. Nassau,
which abuts  New York  City’s eastern edge on  Long Island , has the
highest median household income of any county in the state at
$92,221, according to U.S. Census  data .  The county’s budget doesn’t meet “the standards of
prudence necessary for us to project budget balance,” according
to a Sept. 28 authority  report . It said the county relied on $61
million of concessions by labor unions that may not happen and
on bond sales to pay property-tax refunds, an operating expense.  No Tax Increase  Next year’s budget avoids raising property taxes, already
the second highest among U.S. counties, and relies on cost
cutting, fee increases and borrowing. The county, with a
November jobless rate of 7 percent compared with 9.8 percent
nationwide, still must cope with revenue growing more slowly
than costs, a situation common for local governments.  “Clearly the Legislature and I adopted a balanced no-
property-tax-increase budget and have the contingencies needed
to protect taxpayers from any deficit,” Mangano said in a
statement issued after the authority’s meeting.  County officials say that the budget is plausibly balanced
and that they would fight a declaration of a control period by
the authority. If it takes over, the seven-member  board’s 
approval would be required for new contracts and borrowing,
according to the  law  creating the authority. The authority also
would be empowered to freeze wages and issue binding orders to
elected officials.  Budget ‘Is Balanced’  “I think there will be significant court action” if the
authority imposes a control period, said Nassau County
Comptroller George Maragos, a Republican elected in November
2009. “We don’t think there’s any basis for it. The budget,
according to all governmental accounting standards, is
balanced,” he said in a telephone interview Dec. 28.  To declare a control period, the authority  said  it would
have to determine that there is a deficit of at least 1 percent
in the $3.23 billion spending plan for next year.  The authority has never declared a control period, and the
county may not file for bankruptcy so long as any of the $1.65
billion of debt it has issued remains outstanding, according to
the official statement of bonds sold Dec. 2. The authority’s
bonds have maturities as distant as 2025, according to its
annual report.  “Granted, the budget does contain risks, but the
administration should be given the opportunity to manage those
risks,” Maragos said.  ‘Respect the Choice’  In a Dec. 28 letter, Mangano, a Republican who beat
Democrat Tom Suozzi in November 2009 election, asked the
authority to dispel speculation about a control period. The
budget is balanced and “it is of paramount importance that NIFA
respect the choice residents made at the ballot box,” the
letter said.  The county has identified $241.9 million of contingencies
that aren’t part of the budget but could be used to fill gaps,
Mangano said. About $61 million could come from “land sales and
securitization” and $65 million from using fund balances, the
letter said.  Securitizations may include the sale of bonds backed by
county leases on office buildings, Budget Director Jeffrey Nogid
said in a Dec. 1 interview.  Mangano ordered on Dec. 16 an additional $23 million of
spending cuts in 2011 to allay concerns that state lawmakers
might not allow the county to increase revenue by expanding red-
light traffic cameras and adding a surcharge on tickets from
patrolling the Long Island Expressway, according to his letter.  Relying on Cuts  Mangano’s  budget  for the fiscal year beginning Jan. 1
relies on $100 million of cuts, $60 million of fee and fine
increases, and saves $80 million by eliminating Nassau’s
obligation to local governments for their property-tax refunds.  The change in property-tax refunds may face legal
challenges, Moody’s Investors Service said in a Nov. 4 report.
Moody’s cut the county’s bond rating one step to A1, its fifth-
highest, from Aa3, and gave it a negative outlook. Standard &
Poor’s rates Nassau’s general-obligation debt A+, also fifth
highest, and  Fitch Ratings  assigned an AA- grade, fourth
highest.  Nassau’s average property  tax , at $8,940 last year, trails
only Westchester County, also in New York, which has the
nation’s highest, according to the  Tax Foundation  in  Washington .  The county expects to borrow  $364 million  to cover tax
refunds owed homeowners, according to the oversight group’s
report. The borrowing would provide budget relief “but
simultaneously create a long-term expense for future
taxpayers,” it said.  The authority is led by Stack, a public-finance banker at
Wells Fargo & Co. He and six other board members are appointed
by the governor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Quint in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 