-- New York May Seize Nassau Finances on Budget Deficit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-30T16:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/new-york-may-seize-nassau-county-finances-as-deficit-reaches-343-million.html
A state authority may decide today
whether to assert control over  Nassau County’s  finances, moving
beyond an oversight role because elected officials haven’t
closed next year’s $343 million budget  gap .  The  Nassau County Interim Finance Authority , created in
2000 to sell bonds and oversee operations while the county
worked out earlier deficits, meets today at 10 a.m. in
Uniondale. Nassau, which abuts New York City’s eastern edge on
Long Island, has the highest median household income of any
county in the  state  at $92,221, according to census  data .  The county’s budget doesn’t meet “the standards of
prudence necessary for us to project budget balance,” according
to a Sept. 28 authority  report . It said the county relied on $61
million of concessions by labor unions that may not happen and
on bond sales to pay property-tax refunds, an operating expense.  Next year’s budget avoids raising property taxes, already
the second highest among U.S. counties, and relies on cost
cutting, fee increases and borrowing. The county, with a
November jobless rate of 7 percent compared with 9.8 percent
nationwide, still must cope with revenue growing more slowly
than costs as do local governments across the U.S.  County officials say the budget is plausibly balanced, and
say they would fight a declaration of a control period by the
authority. If it takes over, the seven-member  board’s  approval
would be required for new contracts and borrowing, according to
the  law  creating the authority. It also would be empowered to
freeze wages and issue binding orders to elected officials.  Court Challenge  “I think there will be significant court action” if the
authority imposes a control period, said Nassau County
Comptroller  George Maragos , a Republican elected in November
2009. “We don’t think there’s any basis for it. The budget,
according to all governmental accounting standards, is
balanced,” he said in a telephone interview Dec. 28.  To declare a control period, the authority  says  it would
have to determine that there is a deficit of at least 1 percent
in the county’s $3.23 billion spending plan for next year.  The authority has never declared a control period, and the
county may not file for bankruptcy so long as any of the $1.65
billion of debt it has issued remains outstanding, according to
the official statement of bonds sold Dec. 2. The authority’s
bonds have maturities as distant as 2025, according to its
annual report.  “Granted, the budget does contain risks, but the
administration should be given the opportunity to manage those
risks,” Maragos said.  ‘Respect the Choice’  In a Dec. 28 letter, County Executive  Edward Mangano , a
Republican who beat Democrat  Tom Suozzi  in November 2009
election, asked the authority to dispel speculation about a
control period. The budget is balanced and “it is of paramount
importance that NIFA respect the choice residents made at the
ballot box,” the letter said.  Mangano’s  budget  for the fiscal year beginning Jan. 1
relies on $100 million of cuts, $60 million of fee and fine
increases, and saves $80 million by eliminating Nassau’s
obligation to pay local governments for their property-tax
refunds.  The change in property tax refunds, may face legal
challenges, Moody’s Investors Service said in a Nov. 4 report.
Moody’s cut the county’s bond rating one step to A1, its fifth-
highest, from Aa3, and gave it a negative outlook. Standard &
Poor’s rates Nassau’s general-obligation debt A+, also fifth
highest, and Fitch Ratings assigned an AA- grade, fourth
highest.  Trails Only Westchester  Nassau average property  tax , at $8,940 last year, trails
only Westchester County, also in New York, which has the
nation’s highest, according to the  Tax Foundation  in Washington.  The county expects to borrow  $364 million  to cover tax
refunds owed homeowners, according to the oversight group’s
report. The borrowing would provide budget relief “but
simultaneously create a long term expense for future
taxpayers,” it said.  The county has identified $241.9 million in contingencies,
or additional actions it could take, to fill budget gaps,
Mangano’s letter said. Additional revenue sources include
property sales or issuance of bonds backed by county leases on
office buildings, Budget Director Jeffrey Nogid said in a Dec. 1
interview.  The authority is led by Chairman  Ronald Stack , a public-
finance banker at  Wells Fargo & Co . He and six other board
members are appointed by the governor. Stack and Mangano didn’t
respond to telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  At a Dec. 21 meeting, the authority voted to deny a wage
increase for its employees.  “If we expect others to act in a certain way, we should
govern our agency accordingly,”  said  Christopher Wright, a
board member. Wright is a managing director of Protiviti, a
Menlo Park, California-based consulting firm owned by  Robert
Half International Inc.   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 