-- Nexon to Offer Apple iPad Games, More Titles Outside Korea Ahead of IPO
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-12-30T07:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/nexon-to-offer-apple-ipad-games-more-titles-outside-south-korea.html
Nexon Corp. , South Korea’s largest
developer of online games by revenue, plans to offer titles for
Apple Inc.’s iPad and release nine more products overseas next
year as it aims for an initial public offering.  Nexon plans to release “KartRider Rush” for the iPad and
two more games for Apple’s iPhone and the tablet device in 2011,
Choi Seung Woo, chief executive officer of the Tokyo-based
parent of Nexon, said in an e-mail interview yesterday. In
China, the world’s largest online games market, the company will
release “ Sudden Attack ” in the second half through  Shanda
Games Ltd .  Developers including Nexon and  NCSoft Corp . aim to benefit
from the growing popularity of games that allow people in
different places to play together on the Internet. Online games
will probably account for 15 percent of the $144 billion global
gaming market in 2012, compared with 11 percent last year,
according to  Daewoo Securities Co.   Nexon, which offers about 30 games in 71 countries, had
consolidated sales of 703.7 billion won ($619 million) last
year, the company said. As much as 67 percent of its revenues
came from markets outside South Korea.  The company aims to expand its European unit next year
after sales in the region more than doubled in 2009, Choi said.
Nexon is also “actively studying” ways to expand into
Indonesia, India and the Middle East, with a plan to start
offering “ Counter-Strike Online ” in Southeast Asia next year.  Japan Listing  Nexon has been preparing to list its shares in Japan,
attracted by the country’s large gaming industry, Choi said
without specifying a timeframe for the share sale. Nexon is open
to buying more companies next year after acquiring three local
game makers in 2010, he said.  The company this year bought  GameHi Co. , developer of
“Sudden Attack.” Shares of GameHi have gained 48 percent this
year, while Kosdaq stock index, comprising mostly technology
companies, has fallen 0.6 percent.  Nexon is also in talks with Shanda, China’s second-largest
operator of online games, regarding the introduction of “ Bubble
Fighter ” in the country next year, Choi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  