-- NFL Labor Accord Is Unlikely Before Super Bowl, Union President Mawae Says
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2010-12-30T18:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/nfl-labor-accord-is-unlikely-before-super-bowl-union-president-mawae-says.html
The National Football League and its
players union are unlikely to reach a labor agreement before
this season’s Super Bowl title game, union head  Kevin Mawae 
said.  Mawae, president of the  NFL Players Association , said
players and owners haven’t made significant progress since
meetings in November. He said the union has made proposals to
solve disputes over topics including expansion of the season to
18 games from 16 and establishing a pay ceiling for rookies.  “Getting a deal done by Super Bowl weekend is not a real
possibility,” Mawae, 39, said on a conference call with
reporters. The Super Bowl is scheduled for Arlington, Texas, on
Feb. 6.  Owners in the U.S.’s most-watched sports league voted in
2008 to opt out of the labor agreement with players after this
season, saying the deal didn’t account for rising costs, such as
those of building stadiums. Mawae said the union is preparing
for a lockout and hoping to reach a new accord before the old
one expires in March.  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell   told reporters  after a
league meeting in Ft. Worth, Texas, this month that a labor
agreement may be in place by the Super Bowl “if we all commit
to it and work hard at it.”  Greg Aiello , an NFL spokesman, called Mawae’s comments
regarding the status of talks “unfortunate, but perhaps not
surprising.” He said the league is concerned that Mawae and
union Executive Director DeMaurice Smith have decided to stall
and pursue a strategy of litigation and asking for help from
U.S. lawmakers.  ‘Economic Reality’  “There is an agreement to be made if both sides
acknowledge economic reality and are equally focused on reaching
an agreement,” Aiello said in an e-mail.  Mawae said salaries and expanding the season remained the
two major sticking points. The union has proposed
increasing health care and reducing off-season practices in
exchange for expanding the season, he said. The union has also
offered a deal for a rookie wage scale if owners guaranteed $100
million a year for retired players and $100 million in
additional salary for veterans.  Aiello said those issues have been discussed at the
bargaining table. The union rejected a league proposal for a
rookie wage scale in 2010 that would have sent the first $100
million to retired players, he said.  “We are not interested in the status quo,” Aiello said.
“We want a better CBA for the game, the players, retired
players and the fans.”  Mawae said the NFL needs to show players audited financial
documents that demonstrate the owners’ grievances.  “Show us how what you’re asking to do makes sense to the
players,” Mawae said. “You’re asking us for two more games
when we only have five years of post-career health insurance.
Show us how that makes sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 