-- To Heal a Hangover, Doctor Says Skip the `Hair of the Dog' and Hit the Gym
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-12-31T00:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/to-heal-a-hangover-doctor-says-skip-the-hair-of-the-dog-and-hit-the-gym.html
New Year’s  revelers needing a
 hangover  remedy should ignore the conventional wisdom that they
drink coffee or more alcohol, and head to the gym instead.   The body gets rid of alcohol and its toxic by-products four
ways: breathing, via the liver or kidney and from sweating, said
Aaron Michelfelder, a family physician from Loyola University
Health System in Maywood,  Illinois . Exercise speeds breathing,
increases sweat, and moves alcohol-laden blood to the liver and
kidneys more quickly.  “That’s why you should stay hydrated as well,”
Michelfelder said in a telephone interview. “It takes a lot of
water to process alcohol in your body.”  Drinking plenty of water, especially between every glass of
wine, whiskey or beer, has another benefit -- it can reduce the
amount of alcohol consumed, he said.  Michelfelder has a list of recommendations that New Year’s
Eve partygoers should heed tonight to help the body  grapple  with
the tsunami of alcohol ahead. The first is, avoid a hangover
altogether, he said.  “A hangover is  brain damage ,” he said. “Some of it is
going to heal, and some will be permanent. Prevention is the
best medicine, particularly with hangovers.”  The most important is to  drink moderately  and slowly, at
most five drinks for men and three for women over a three-hour
period. Other measures include taking an anti-inflammatory pill
such as ibuprofen and eating before any drinking occurs. The
medicine may help avoid nerve damage from the alcohol, while the
food may slow the absorption of alcohol. B vitamins may also
help, he said.  Coffee Doesn’t Work  Michelfelder’s most surprising advice involves what to do
after the hangover has set in. Coffee is unlikely to ease the
nausea, dizziness, cotton candy head and general  malaise  that
stems from over-imbibing, though it may lift some symptoms of
depression that can set in after the warm and pleasant effects
of the alcohol wear off, he said.  “Hair of the dog,” the familiar standby of getting down
just one more drink in order to stymie the ill-effects of a
hangover, is particularly unhelpful, Michelfelder said. It will
only make you feel worse, he said.  “A hangover is similar to taking a sledgehammer and
hitting your head,” he said. “Do what you need to do not get a
hangover. It’s unpleasant and it’s hard on your body.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  