-- Obama Bypasses Recessed Senate to Appoint Ambassadors to Syria and Turkey
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2010-12-30T02:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/obama-bypasses-senate-to-appoint-ambassadors-to-syria-and-turkey.html
President  Barack Obama  bypassed the
Senate today to appoint two career diplomats as ambassadors to
countries critical to the execution of his Middle East strategy.  The recess appointments of  Robert Ford  as ambassador to
Syria and  Francis Ricciardone  as ambassador to Turkey fill “key
administration posts that have been left vacant for an extended
period of time,” the White House said in an e-mailed statement.  Both men can serve without Senate confirmation until the
end of the next session of Congress, or for about a year. The
first of two sessions of the 112th Congress begins Jan. 5.  Ford had long been the administration’s choice to fill a
position left vacant since 2005, when President  George W. Bush 
recalled his envoy to Damascus following Syria’s alleged
involvement in the assassination of former Lebanese Prime
Minister  Rafiq Hariri . Obama nominated Ford in February, and the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee reported his nomination
favorably to the full Senate in April.  Republicans raised objections, seeing the full resumption
of diplomatic relations as a reward for Syria in spite of its
close ties to the Lebanese paramilitary group Hezbollah, which
is on the State Department’s list of  foreign terrorist
organizations .  The U.S. administration has made engagement with Syria, a
key player in the region, a part of its efforts to make peace
between Israel and its Arab neighbors.  Still, Obama renewed economic sanctions on Syria following
allegations that it had transferred missiles to Hezbollah.
Sanctions were initially imposed in May 2004.  Syria, Israel, Turkey  Indirect peace talks between Israel and Syria, mediated by
Turkey, halted in December 2008, when Israel began a three-week
military offensive in the Gaza Strip that it said was aimed at
stopping Islamic militants from firing rockets into southern
Israel. Peace talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority
resumed on Sept. 1 of this year, only to break down three weeks
later.  The U.S. has had no ambassador in the Turkish capital,
Ankara, since July, when  James Jeffrey  was named ambassador to
Iraq. Ricciardone was nominated that same month, and the Foreign
Relations Committee sent his name to the Senate in August.  Filling that position has been a priority for Obama, given
the diplomatic tensions over Turkey’s stance on Iran and its
threats to break ties with Israel.  Turkey, a secular democracy with a predominantly Muslim
population, has become more assertive on the international
stage. In June, it voted against a U.S.-backed resolution in the
United Nations Security Council for tighter sanctions against
Iran. It also has demanded an apology from Israel after Israeli
commandos killed nine Turks in a May 31 raid on an aid flotilla
seeking to break the blockade of the Gaza Strip.  Difficult Assignments  Both of the newly appointed ambassadors have experience
with tough assignments. Ford was ambassador to Algeria from 2006
to 2008. He served twice as political counselor at the U.S.
embassy in Baghdad and also was deputy chief of mission, the
second-ranking post, there.  Ricciardone, a former U.S. ambassador to Egypt, served most
recently as deputy chief of mission in Afghanistan. From 1999 to
2001 he was Secretary of State  Madeleine Albright ’s special
coordinator for the transition of Iraq. He began his Foreign
Service career in Turkey and has also served in Ankara as a
political adviser and as deputy chief of mission.  Other recess appointments made by Obama today include
career diplomat  Matthew Bryza  as ambassador to Azerbaijan, a
central Asian nation with important gas reserves, and  Norman Eisen , most recently special counsel to the president for ethics
and government reform, as ambassador to the Czech Republic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Indira Lakshmanan  at in Washington or
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  