-- Mobius Sees China Stock Rebound as Central Bank Keeps Inflation in Check
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-30T08:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/mobius-sees-china-stock-rebound-as-central-bank-keeps-inflation-in-check.html
China’s stocks, the worst-performing
equities market among major developing countries this year, are
poised to rebound in 2011 as the government keeps inflation
under control, according to investor  Mark Mobius .  Consumer prices  will stay at “tolerable” levels, easing
investor concerns about excessive tightening of monetary policy
after two interest-rate increases since October, Mobius, who
oversees about $40 billion as executive chairman of Templeton
Emerging Markets Group, said in response to e-mailed questions.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 0.3 percent to
2,759.58 at the 3 p.m. close. It has plunged 16 percent this
year, the most among benchmark equity gauges for the 21 nations
in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, on concern tightening
measures will slow economic growth. Along with rate increases,
the central bank has boosted lenders’ reserve requirements six
times this year to tame an inflation rate that climbed to 5.1
percent last month, the highest level in two years.  “We are confident that the Chinese government has the
capability to control inflation at a reasonable level in 2011,”
Mobius, 74, said yesterday. “If China can keep the CPI at about
4 percent in 2011, the equity market should perform well.”  ‘Tolerable’ Inflation  The inflation rate jumped to a two-year high of 4.4 percent
in October on rising food prices, spurring the central bank to
boost borrowing costs for the first time in three years. The
People’s Bank of China acted again on Christmas Day after
November  consumer prices  surged to the highest level in 28
months. The government’s annual inflation target is 3 percent.  Government leaders pledged this month at the Central
Economic Work Conference, attended by President  Hu Jintao  and
Premier  Wen Jiabao , to shift monetary policy to “prudent” from
“appropriately loose” next year. Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  said
the country will place more emphasis on inflation controls,
China National Radio reported Dec. 28.  China is tightening after a record expansion of credit to
counter the effects of the world financial crisis. The broadest
measure of money supply, M2, has surged by 55 percent over the
past two years and outstanding yuan-denominated loans have
climbed 60 percent to 47.4 trillion yuan ($7.16 trillion).  “Inflation remains a problem but within tolerable levels
and will probably not result in excessive tightening,” Mobius
said.  Emerging Markets  The central bank may raise rates as many as three times in
the first half of next year, according to Morgan Stanley, while
JPMorgan Chase & Co. forecasts two increases in that period.
Inflation may stay at a “comparatively high level” in the
first half,  Liu Jianwei , a Shenzhen-based fund manager at Bosera
Asset Management Co., said in an interview this week.  China is lagging behind counterparts across Asia that took
steps earlier to raise borrowing costs from global recession
lows. Malaysia boosted its benchmark rate three times, starting
in March, Taiwan began in June and South Korea in July.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 16 percent this
year as investors poured money into developing countries where
growth is outpacing the U.S. and the European Union. Russia’s
 Micex Index  has advanced 22 percent, while India’s  Sensitive
Index  has risen 16 percent.  “Emerging markets are now in a secular bull market and we
expect this trend to continue into 2011, but with significant
corrections along the way,” he said. “Even more money will be
directed into these markets as investors around the world are
beginning to realize that emerging markets are growing three
times faster than developed markets, have more foreign reserves
and lower debt-to-GDP ratios than developed markets.”  He favors commodity and consumer stocks because of
increasing demand and rising incomes in developing nations.  “The negative impact on sentiment has already been
factored in as the Chinese market underperformed,” said Mobius.
“Going into 2011, we don’t think the government will
significantly tighten liquidity unless there is a hyperinflation,
which we think is highly unlikely.”  -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Irene Shen  and  Richard Frost . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Eric Martin   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at   rfrost4@bloomberg.net  