-- Oil Falls Most in a Month as Supplies Drop Less Than Expected
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-12-30T21:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/oil-drops-to-lowest-level-in-a-week-after-report-showed-increase-in-supply.html
Crude oil fell the most in a month
after a U.S. government report showed a smaller-than-forecast
drop in inventories.  Futures retreated below $90 a barrel for the first time in
more than a week after supplies decreased 1.26 million barrels
to 339.4 million in the seven days ended Dec. 24, the Energy
Department said today. Stockpiles of distillate fuel, a category
that includes heating oil and diesel, unexpectedly increased.
Gasoline inventories dropped.  “Two out of the three headline numbers were bearish, and
that’s what’s dominating the trade here,” said  Tim Evans , an
energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in  New York . “Crude
oil and heating oil are getting hit pretty hard in what had been
thin trading conditions all week long.”  Crude oil for February delivery fell $1.28, or 1.4 percent,
to settle at $89.84 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was the biggest decline since Nov. 30 and the first
close below $90 since Dec. 21.  Heating oil for February delivery decreased 3.61 cents, or
1.4 percent, to $2.4854 a gallon on the Nymex, also the biggest
decline in a month.  Oil traded at $90.03 a barrel before the release of the
inventory report at 11 a.m. in  Washington .  Bloomberg News published the main crude, gasoline and
distillate fuel inventory figures before the official 11 a.m.
release time after receiving an e-mail from the Energy
Department that contained those numbers and five-year average
supply levels.  Inventory Estimates  Oil inventories have dropped 5.6 percent so far in
December, the biggest monthly decline in four years. Supplies in
states along the  Gulf of Mexico , home to more than half of U.S.
stockpiles, have tumbled 12 percent, the most in a single month
in 30 years as refiners sought to avoid year-end tax
liabilities.  Crude supplies were forecast to decline by 2.85 million
barrels, according to the median of 14 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Distillate stocks were estimated to drop
by 625,000 barrels.  Gasoline supplies fell 2.32 million barrels to 214.9
million. They were predicted to increase by 1.5 million barrels.
Refinery utilization rose 0.1 percentage point to 87.8 percent.  Chinese Manufacturing  Oil also slid as manufacturing growth in  China , the world’s
largest energy-consuming country, slowed for the first time in
five months in December as the government tightened monetary
policy and chased energy-efficiency and pollution targets, a
survey indicated.  A purchasing managers’ index released today by  HSBC
Holdings Plc  and Markit Economics fell to 54.4 from 55.3 in
November. The data are seasonally adjusted and a reading above
50 indicates an expansion.  “There has been some concern with the Chinese
manufacturing data,” said  Phil Flynn , a Chicago-based analyst
and trader with investment adviser PFGBest. “There could be
some concern that we’re going to see a rate increase from China
and people are taking money off the table.”  Brent crude for February settlement dropped $1.05, or 1.1
percent, to $93.09 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London .  Oil futures on the Nymex have advanced 13 percent this year
and touched $91.88 a barrel on Dec. 27, the highest price since
October 2008, amid signals the U.S. economy is rebounding.  Retreat From High  “It’s been a big run-up so I think it’s time for some
profit-taking,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester  Massachusetts . “It’s a
good time to get out.”  Initial jobless claims in the U.S. fell to the lowest level
since July 2008, a sign that the labor market is improving
heading into 2011, and businesses in the U.S. expanded in
December at the fastest pace in two decades, according to
reports released today.  First-time filings for unemployment insurance decreased by
34,000 to 388,000 in the week ended Dec. 25, compared with the
median forecast of 415,000 in a Bloomberg News survey, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. There were no
special factors behind the drop, an official at the agency said
as the data were released.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer rose to 68.6 this month, exceeding the
most optimistic forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News and the highest level since July 1988. Figures greater than
50 signal expansion.  Surprised  “I’m a little surprised by the selloff,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research at IAF Advisors in Houston. “The
overall DOE report I thought was not that bearish. Demand was
not that impressive, but it’s way up from earlier in the year.
It’s probably just selling associated with some year-end money
flows.”  Total products supplied, a measure of demand, gained 3.1
percent last week to 20.7 million barrels a day, the highest
level since May 2008, according to the Energy Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 