-- Look Out Lady Gaga, Ke$ha Gets Plastic Pop Set for 2011 U.S. Tour: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2010-12-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/look-out-lady-gaga-ke-ha-gets-plastic-pop-set-for-2011-u-s-tour-review.html
In the way that 2010 saw the
ascendancy of  Lady Gaga , 2011 may be the year of Ke$ha.  The 23-year-old singer-songwriter who was born  Kesha Sebert 
is limbering up for a tour of her U.S. homeland after conquering
Europe in the run-up to Christmas.  Well, that’s how her publicists see it. They portray the
star as the electro-pop party animal of teenage girls’ dreams: a
bourbon swilling, rich dudes’ house-trashing minx.  The fun starts in Portland, Oregon, in February. If the
U.K. shows are any guide, expect a writhing mass of Mohican
haircuts and ripped stockings, cross-dressing cheerleaders and
industrial quantities of glitter. Ke$ha’s teenaged audience,
many dressed like their idol, lap it all up and reach their
first moments of pop bliss.  Ke$ha’s live show is pure trash. There’s madcap mayhem (all
scripted), outrageous behavior (mostly harmless) and dance music
so plastic it will take an ice age before it biodegrades.  Two male dancers grab their crotches and pour beer over
Ke$ha. She plays keyboards, struts in gold tiny hot pants and
poses with a guitar shaped like a rifle. She introduces “Take
It Off” as a song “about taking off your clothes” before not
taking anything off.  Ke$ha has worked with Benny Blanco and Dr Luke, two of the
most successful (and expensive) producer/ songwriters, known for
their work with Katy Perry and  Britney Spears . “Animal” is
 Bonnie Tyler  re-imagined in Casiotone. At its brazenly vile
best, “Your Love Is My Drug” and “Tik Tok” are everything
good-time pop should be: catchy, disposable and unforgettable.  Rating: **.  Ke$ha to Weller  Paul Weller  is back on fighting form. The 52-year-old
British Mod rocker, whose next shows are also in February, has
plenty of ammunition from his excellent album, “Wake Up the
Nation,” its 2008 predecessor “22 Dreams” and three-minute
bursts of punk by the Jam, his first band.  Weller betters Oasis’s big rock noise and Blur’s concise
catchy tunes. “Fast Car/Slow Traffic” jabs at the absurdity of
inner-city sports cars, while “7 & 3 Is the Strikers Name”
displays steel toe-capped rage.  Weller, sporting a simple black T-shirt and more salt than
pepper hair, goes beyond Mod stylings and punk sneer.
“Andromeda” immerses itself in psychedelia, “Moonshine” is
hell-raising rock ‘n’ roll and “Aim High” mines Northern Soul.  Rating: ***.  Ke$ha’s “Get $leazy Tour” resumes in Oregon on Feb. 15,
taking in Seattle, Salt Lake City and Chicago. It moves to
Australia and Japan in March. U.S. dates, including New York
follow, in April. Information:
 http://www.Ke $hasparty.com/us/events  Paul Weller plays Aberdeen and Newcastle, U.K., starting on
Feb. 3. Information:  http://www.paulweller.com/gigs.php   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 