-- Most Taiwan Firms Expect Home Prices to Rise or Stay Unchanged Next Year
-- B y   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 2010-12-30T05:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/most-taiwan-firms-expect-home-prices-to-rise-or-stay-unchanged-next-year.html
Most Taiwanese companies expect home
prices to post further gains or stay little changed as overseas
fund inflows offset government measures to cool the real estate
market, according to a government survey.  Of the 107 companies surveyed between Nov. 8 and Dec. 3, 36
percent expect real-estate prices to increase in the first half,
and the same number of respondents said prices will remain
steady, the government’s Architecture and Building Research
Institute said in a  report  today.  Property prices in the capital have advanced 11 percent in
January through November to a record,  Sinyi Realty Co. ’s Chief
Analyst  Stanley Su  said this week. Projections by the
International Monetary Fund show Taiwan’s economy will grow at
one of the world’s fastest rates in 2010, attracting funds to
the island’s assets.  “The property market is a bit too hot,”  Chang Chin-oh ,
director of the Taiwan Real Estate Research Center at National
Chengchi University, which produced the survey, said at a press
conference in Taipei today.  Taiwan is considering a new tax for properties sold within
a year and plans to revise land valuation rules to further quell
the risk of overheating, the government said earlier this month.
The tax will be aimed at investment properties rather than those
who own their own homes, it said.  The central bank on Sept. 30 increased its benchmark
 interest rate  by 0.125 percentage point for the second time this
year after a jump in home prices fueled concern the island’s
economic recovery may stoke a property bubble. Taiwan will
probably raise borrowing costs again today, pushing the
benchmark rate by another 0.125 percentage point to 1.625
percent, according to all 14 economists in a Bloomberg  survey .  An index tracking indicators rose to 15 on a scale of 20 in
the third quarter, the highest in 13 years, according to today’s
report, signaling more companies were investing in the property
market. The gauge measures land transactions, construction
permits, prices of new houses and utilization of housing units.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Yu-huay Sun  in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  