-- Tottenham Leads Race to Get Galaxy's David Beckham on Loan: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-12-30T10:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/tottenham-leads-race-to-get-galaxy-s-david-beckham-on-loan-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Beckham Chase  Tottenham lead a group of six Premier League teams chasing
the signature of former England national team captain  David Beckham , the  Daily Mirror  said.  The Los Angeles Galaxy midfielder is in talks with his club
to allow him leave on a two-month loan during Major League
Soccer’s offseason, the newspaper said.  The Galaxy released a statement earlier this month saying
there were no plans to release Beckham following growing
speculation that he would be allowed to return to Europe.
Beckham has spent the past two seasons with AC Milan.  Spurs coach  Harry Redknapp  faces competition from
Blackburn, West Ham, Sunderland, Everton and Newcastle, as well
as enquiries from Italy and Spain for Beckham, the Mirror said.  Houllier Under Pressure  Gerard Houllier ’s position as Aston Villa manager is under
review after his team’s poor run continued with a 4-0 loss to
Manchester City in its last match, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Villa has just one win in six games and the defeat to City
has led to the team’s American owner  Randy Lerner  and Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Faulkner  to consider how much longer
Houllier’s three-and-a-half month reign should last, the Mail
said.  The Mail said the 63-year-old’s future could be jeopardized
further if results in upcoming matches against Sunderland in the
league and Sheffield United in the F.A. Cup end in defeats.  Houllier was appointed earlier this season after  Martin O’Neill  quit following disagreements over transfer funds.  Hammers Search  Bottom of the table West Ham has drawn up a list of 15
potential transfer targets as it seeks to sign players that will
keep it in the Premier League, the Sun reported.  The club is in talks to sign Aston Villa midfielder  Steve Sidwell  and is also trying to get former Chelsea left back  Wayne Bridge  on loan from Manchester City, the newspaper said.  West Ham has claimed five points from its last three
matches and can climb out of the bottom three with a victory in
its next match at home to next-to-last Wolves on Jan. 1.  Striker Turns Politician  Former Liverpool and West Ham striker  Titi Camara  has been
appointed Guinea’s sports minister, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The country’s newly elected president  Alpha Conde  made
Camara the first former sportsmen to hold a government post
following reports the 38-year-old helped fund his election
campaign, the Mail said.  Dzeko Record  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  needs to break the
British transfer record if he’s to sign Wolfsburg’s Bosnian
striker Edin Dzeko, the  Sun  reported.  City will need to come up with 38 million pounds ($58.8
million) if they are to convince the German team to part with
the 24-year-old, the Sun said. Dzeko has scored 10 goals in 17
games this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 