-- Pending Sales of U.S. Previously Owned Homes Rise
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-30T16:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/pending-sales-of-existing-homes-rose-3-5-in-november-exceeding-forecasts.html
The number of contracts to buy
previously owned homes rose more than forecast in November, a
sign sales are recovering following a post-tax credit plunge.  The  index  of pending resales increased 3.5 percent after
jumping a record 10 percent in October, the National Association
of Realtors said today in Washington. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a 0.8 percent rise in November,
and the gain was the fourth in five months. The group’s data go
back to 2001.  Home demand is stabilizing after  sales  collapsed to a
record low in July, as the effects of a tax incentive worth as
much as $8,000 waned. A  jobless rate  hovering near 10 percent
means foreclosures will remain elevated and any recovery in
housing, the industry that precipitated the worst recession
since the 1930s, will take time to develop.  The figures are “in line with an ongoing gradual pickup in
existing-home sales in December,”  Yelena Shulyatyeva , an
economist at BNP Paribas in New York, said in an e-mail to
clients. “Housing demand should continue its uneven recovery
entering 2011 as housing oversupply should keep pushing housing
prices down.”  A report today from the Labor Department showed  claims  for
jobless benefits fell last week to the lowest level since July
2008, showing the labor market is improving heading into 2011.
Filings decreased by 34,000 to 388,000 in the week ended Dec.
25, fewer than the lowest estimate of economists surveyed.  Business Barometer  Other figures showed the economy accelerated at the end of
the year. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s
 business barometer  jumped to 68.6 in December from 62.5 in the
prior month. Readings greater than 50 signal expansion and the
level was the highest since July 1988.  Stocks fluctuated between gains and losses after the
reports. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.1 percent to
1,258.23 at 11:17 a.m. in New York. The benchmark 10-year
Treasury note declined, pushing up the yield to 3.39 percent
from 3.35 percent late yesterday.  The projected increase in pending home sales was based on
the median of 24 forecasts in the Bloomberg survey. Estimates
ranged from a drop of 5 percent to a gain of 5 percent.  Two of four regions saw an increase, today’s report showed,
led by an 18 percent jump in the West. Pending sales rose 1.8
percent in the Northeast. They fell 4.2 percent in the Midwest
and 1.8 percent in the South.  November 2009  Compared with November 2009, pending sales in the U.S. were
down 2.4 percent.  Even as the labor market is improving and manufacturing is
growing, housing remains a weak link. NAR chief economist
 Lawrence Yun  last week estimated there were about 4.5 million
distressed properties that could potentially reach the market in
coming months.  Average home prices as measured by the S&P/Case-Shiller
indexes have begun dropping again after rising when the tax
incentive was in effect. The group’s  20-city index  fell 0.8
percent in October from a year earlier, the biggest year-on-year
decline since December. It fell 1 percent from the prior month,
and is down 30 percent from its July 2006 peak.  Reports earlier this month showed the housing market is
stuck near recession levels.  Housing permits  fell in November to
the third-lowest level on record, while starts rose for the
first time in three months, the Commerce Department reported
Dec. 16.  Home Sales  Sales of  new  and  existing  homes last month rose less than
projected by the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, reports from the Commerce Department and the National
Association of Realtors showed last week. Existing home sales
represent closings on the contracts captured by the pending
sales gauge.  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. , the largest homebuilder in New
Jersey, on Dec. 22 reported a fourth-quarter loss bigger than
analysts expected as revenue fell 19 percent.  “The year can generally be described as one where we and
the industry were bouncing along the bottom,” Chief Executive
Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said on a conference call.  Even so, economists in the past two weeks have boosted
projections for fourth-quarter growth, reflecting a pickup in
consumer spending and passage of an $858 billion bill extending
all Bush-era tax cuts for two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  