-- Pending Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Likely Rose Last Month
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-30T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/pending-sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-probably-rose-last-month.html
The number of contracts to buy
previously owned homes rose in November for a fourth time in
five months, extending a recovery following a post-credit
plunge, economists said before a report today.  The  index  of pending resales rose 0.8 percent after jumping
a record 10 percent in October, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News forecast the National Association of Realtors will report
today at 10 a.m. Other data may show claims for unemployment
insurance benefits dropped last week.  Home demand is stabilizing after  sales  collapsed to a
record low in July as the effects of a government incentive
worth as much as $8,000 waned. A  jobless rate  hovering near 10
percent means foreclosures will remain elevated and any recovery
in housing, the industry that precipitated the worst recession
since the 1930s, will take time to develop.  “We had an artificial boost in the spring as the homebuyer
tax credit was set to expire,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S.
economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York. “Housing will
remain at pretty low levels through next year.”  The projected increase in pending home sales was based on
the  median  of 24 forecasts in the Bloomberg survey. Estimates
ranged from a drop of 5 percent to a 5 percent gain.  A Labor Department report at 8:30 a.m. may show the number
of applications for  jobless benefits  fell to 415,000 last week,
near the two-year low of 410,000 reached in the middle of last
month, according to the survey median. The drop in claims
signals firings are slowing, which may precede gains in hiring
as the economy improves.  Purchasers Upbeat  At 9:45 a.m., a report from the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. may show businesses continued to grow in
December. The purchasing managers’  gauge  fell to 61, according
to economists surveyed, from a seven-month high of 62.5 in
November. The index has exceeded 50, signaling expansion, since
October 2009.  Even as the labor market is improving and manufacturing is
growing, housing remains a weak link. NAR chief economist
 Lawrence Yun  last week estimated there were about 4.5 million
distressed properties that could potentially reach the market in
coming months.  Average home prices as measured by the S&P/Case-Shiller
indexes have begun dropping again after rising when the tax
incentive was in effect. The group’s  20-city index  fell 0.8
percent in October from a year earlier, the biggest year-on-year
decline since December. It fell 1 percent from the prior month,
and is down 30 percent from its July 2006 peak.  Housing Woes  Reports earlier this month showed the housing market is
stuck near recession levels.  Housing permits  fell in November to
the third-lowest level on record, while starts rose for the
first time in three months, the Commerce Department reported
Dec. 16.  Sales of  new  and  existing  homes last month rose less than
projected by the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, reports from the Commerce Department and the National
Association of Realtors showed last week. Existing home sales
represent closings on the contracts captured by the pending
sales gauge.  The lack of demand has depressed builder stocks this year.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index , which
includes Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar Corp., is up 1.8 percent
since Dec. 31, while the broader S&P 500 has climbed 13 percent.  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. , the largest homebuilder in New
Jersey, on Dec. 22 reported a fourth-quarter loss bigger than
analysts expected as revenue fell 19 percent.  “The year can generally be described as one where we and the
industry were bouncing along the bottom,” Chief Executive
Officer Ara Hovnanian said on a conference call.  Even so, economists this month have boosted projections for
fourth-quarter growth, reflecting a pickup in consumer spending
and passage of an $858 billion bill extending all Bush-era tax
cuts for two years.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  