-- Qatar to Complete Passenger Railway Network in Time for World Cup in 2022
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-12-30T13:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/qatar-to-complete-passenger-railway-network-in-time-for-world-cup-in-2022.html
Qatar, the host the 2022 World Cup,
plans to complete the passenger line of a $25 billion nationwide
rail and metro network in time for the tournament, the project’s
manager said.  Only a 70 kilometer (44 mile) freight line linking Doha to
the oil fields in the west of the Persian Gulf country won’t be
completed until after the sporting event is over, Sultan Bakhit
al Enazi, railway project manager for Qatari Diar Real Estate
Investment Co., said in a telephone interview today.  “We have a plan that by 2021, the connection to the
stadiums, they are going to be ready,” al Enazi said.  The network, included in the presentation to FIFA
inspectors in September, would be used to transport soccer fans
between 13 stadiums located in and around the capital Doha as
well as to northern and southern parts of the country. A rail
line would also extend to Bahrain over a yet-to-be-constructed
causeway.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates that $65 billion
will be spent getting Qatar ready for the world’s most-watched
sporting event. The country has pledged to build nine new
stadiums and refurbishing three more as well as double the
number of rooms in hotels and apartments to accommodate fans.  Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co., a unit of the
country’s sovereign wealth fund, and German state-owned rail
operator  Deutsche Bahn AG  last year announced that they formed
Qatar Railways Development Co. to build the network in three
phases by 2026.  The Doha metro system will be completed by 2019 with
construction started in 2013, al Enazi said. A high-speed rail
network extending outside the capital is to be finished by 2021,
he said.  Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest natural gas
reserves, is investing revenue earned from liquefied gas exports
and oil into infrastructure, universities and research centers.
Dubai, the second-biggest of seven sheikhdoms in the United Arab
Emirates, opened the first metro system in the Gulf Arab
countries last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  