-- Queensland Floods Hit Mines, Crops, May Cost Billions
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-12-30T06:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/queensland-floods-may-cost-billions-as-rain-ravage-australian-crops-mines.html
Heavy rain and flooding that’s swept
across the Australian state of Queensland may cost billions of
dollars after crops were destroyed and output from coal mines
was disrupted, Premier  Anna Bligh  said.  “It’s without precedent in our recorded history, with so
many places in so many diverse parts of the state each affected
so critically at once,” Bligh said today, according to an e-
mailed transcript. “I expect that we’ll still be managing some
of this until the end of January. This is a disaster that is
going to run into the billions of dollars.”  Australia had its wettest September-to-November period on
record, with showers and storms forecast to continue across
Queensland until at least Jan. 5, the Bureau of Meteorology said
on its website. Flooding has destroyed cotton crops, halted coal
deliveries, shut mines and prompted BHP Billiton Ltd.,  Xstrata
Plc  and Rio Tinto Group to declare force majeure, allowing them
to miss contracted deliveries.  Three Blackhawk helicopters from the Australian defense
force are assisting with recovery efforts, Emergency Management
Queensland Assistant Director-General  Bruce Grady  said on Sky
News today.  Helicopter Rescue  Two of the aircraft are heading for the town of Emerald to
help with the potential evacuation of as many as 2,500 people as
flood waters are expected to peak at a record 16.2 meters (53
feet) tomorrow. The previous record of 15.7 meters was set in
1950, Grady said.  More than 300 residents from the town of Theodore were
 evacuated  yesterday, he said.  “The floods in Queensland are particularly devastating,
some communities are seeing floodwaters higher than they’ve seen
in decades,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said yesterday in
Adelaide, according to an e-mailed transcript. “For some
communities, floodwaters have never reached these levels.”  BHP and Anglo American Plc today declared force majeure for
mines in Queensland’s Bowen Basin, according to e-mailed
statements. Wesfarmers Ltd. has also suspended mining at its
Curragh North operation.  Cockatoo Coal Ltd. halted production at its Baralaba mine
in the Bowen Basin after water breached the pit wall, the
Sydney-based company said in a statement. The flooding is
equivalent to the 1-in-100 year flood design levels of the mine,
Cockatoo said.  Network Shuts  Flooding has shut the Blackwater rail network that
transports coal from mines for export from the Port of
Gladstone, about 450 kilometers (280 miles) north of the state
capital, Brisbane, QR National Ltd. spokesman  Mark Hairsine  said
by telephone today.  Xstrata today said operations at its Oaky Creek underground
mine in the Bowen Basin have been affected by the disruption to
the Blackwater network. The world’s largest exporter of thermal
coal is assessing the level of delays to shipments, Sydney-based
spokesman  James Rickards  said.  Queensland, which produces 95 percent of the nation’s sugar
and is the country’s largest coal exporter, accounts for about
20 percent of Australia’s A$1.3 trillion ($1.32 trillion)
economy, with trade contributing most to the state’s growth in
the 12 months ended June 30.  Australia is the largest producer of coal used in
steelmaking, contributing more than 40 percent of the global
seaborne trade, Deutsche Bank AG. said Oct. 19. The country is
the  second-largest exporter  after Indonesia of the commodity
burned for power.  Flood Warnings  The Bureau of Meteorology issued  nine flood warnings  for
Queensland at 3:09 p.m. local time today, including the Barcoo
River and Cooper Creek. The southeastern region of the state and
eastern New South Wales have a 60 percent to 70 percent chance
of getting higher-than-average rainfall between January and
March, the Bureau said.  Eight trucks will deliver 112,500 liters of water to Dalby
after flooding damaged the treatment plant, Queensland Emergency
Services Minister Neil Roberts said in a statement. The town has
two days of drinking supply remaining and the operation will
continue “as long as required,” he said.  The flooding may mean weather-damaged wheat and chick pea
crops that have yet to be harvested in southern Queensland will
be left in the fields, Wayne Newton, grains president of farmer
group Agforce, said yesterday from Dalby. Some recently planted
cotton and sorghum crops were under water, he said.  Damaged Crops  Cotton Australia estimates about 7,500 hectares of the crop
planted near Theodore in the state’s east have been destroyed,
Communications Manager David Bone said yesterday.  Television pictures show whole towns consumed by muddy
floodwaters. Traffic has been brought to a standstill, with some
residents waiting out the floods in pockets of high ground.  QR’s Goonyella rail network, serving Hay Point harbor
further to the north, is closed after the derailment of a
Pacific National train on Dec. 24. Services may resume “within
the next few days,” QR said. Exports from the Dalrymple Bay
terminal haven’t been possible since Dec. 25, spokesman Andrew
Garratt said yesterday.  “We don’t have any coal in the stockyard,”  Greg Smith ,
general manager of operations at Dalrymple Bay, said by phone
today. “There are eight or so loaded trains behind the
derailment. We’ll probably start loading on” Jan. 2, he said.  The  price of coal  leaving the port of Newcastle in New
South Wales, the benchmark for Asia, rose 5.9 percent to $122.40
a ton in the week ended Dec. 24, according to IHS McCloskey, a
Petersfield, U.K.-based provider of coal data. It’s the highest
since October 2008.  On the opposite side of the country, West Australian
emergency services advised residents in the Pilbara and south
west Kimberley region to prepare for a potential tropical
cyclone, according to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  