-- India's Sahara Group Buys London's Grosvenor House Hotel for $726 Million
-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-12-31T04:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/rbs-sells-hotel-in-mayfair-to-india-s-sahara-for-726-million.html
Sahara Group , the Indian owner of
assets ranging from TV channels to real estate, bought the
Grosvenor House in London’s Mayfair district, its first overseas
hotel acquisition.  Grosvenor House was purchased from Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc, the U.K.’s biggest government-owned bank, for 470 million
pounds ($726 million), Lucknow-based Sahara said in a statement
yesterday. Sahara plans to add an Indian restaurant, night club,
spa and swimming pool to the high-end hotel, which has 420 rooms
and 74 suites.  Stephen Hester, RBS’s chief executive officer, is shrinking
the Edinburgh-based bank by selling assets and cutting jobs
after receiving the world’s biggest taxpayer-funded bailout in
2008. Grosvenor House opened in 1929 and, according to Sahara,
was valued at more than 1 billion pounds three years ago.  “They must have really got a good deal with the bargain
prices available at this stage,” said Shreenath Shastry,
national director of hospitality & leisure at Knight Frank
(India) Pvt. “Most of the hotel industry in Europe and U.S. is
going through a down phase, so if one looks at hotels even as a
real estate asset, its cheaper now than it was ever before, as
valuations are much lower than three years ago.”  The hotel, located on Park Lane, has been operated by
Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott International Inc. under the
JW Marriott brand since September 2008.  Overseas Expansion  Indian hotel companies are expanding overseas as they seek
to build their brand to woo customers. Indian Hotels Co.,
the nation’s biggest hotel operator, bought the Ritz-Carlton in
Boston in 2007 for $170 million from Millennium Partners and
renamed it Taj Boston, expanding its brand in the U.S. as it
reentered the New York market in 2005 after six years with the
rights to manage the 201-room Pierre.  “Expanding abroad is one of the most effective ways to put
your flag in some of the most prominent cities,” Shastry said.
An entry into the overseas markets helps create an international
name with immediate brand recognition, along with a ripple
effect on their properties in India, he said.  “In addition to the acquisition of  Grosvenor House , London
will be the gateway for Sahara to introduce some of its new
business ventures internationally,” Sahara said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Barwell in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net .;
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  