-- Reinsurance Rates to Fall in January on Overcapacity
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-12-30T15:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/reinsurance-rates-fall-as-capital-level-remains-high-guy-carpenter-says.html
Global prices for reinsurance
coverage will decline 7.5 percent for policies being renewed on
Jan. 1 amid high levels of capital available in the industry,
the reinsurance brokerage of  Marsh & McLennan Cos.  said.  “The level of reinsurance capital is about 11 percent in
excess of historical levels,”  David Flandro , head of global
business intelligence at  Guy Carpenter  & Co., said in an
interview. “There is immense pressure on reinsurers to return
capital to shareholders.”  Reinsurers such as  Munich Re  and  Swiss Reinsurance Co.  sell
coverage to providers of primary cover such as  Allianz SE  and
 Axa SA  to help protect them against the cost of major claims.
About two-thirds of property and casualty reinsurance contracts
are typically up for renewal in January. Rates dropped 6 percent
in the year-ago renewals after an  8 percent  increase in January
2009 when capital was drained by costly storms, including
Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, and the financial crisis.  “Subdued losses, combined with unrealized investment
gains, led to record levels of capital,” which drove the
decline in reinsurance pricing, as measured by the  Guy Carpenter
Global Property Catastrophe Rate on Line Index , the New York-
based broker said.  Potential Consolidation  The decline in rates may stop in the event of a major
disaster with about $50 billion in insured losses, whereas a
$150 billion event would be needed for a “sustained turning of
the market,” Flandro said. Low valuations of reinsurers that
could spur consolidation as well as an increase in stock
buybacks may help turn the market, he added.  The 26 members of the  Bloomberg Property-Casualty
Reinsurance Index  currently trade at 1.05 times book value on
average, compared with 1.19 times at the end of 2007, according
to Bloomberg data. Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer,
currently  trades  at 0.87 times book value, compared to 0.95 at
the end of 2007.  In the marine reinsurance market, the effect of the April
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig that caused the leak of
crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico drove prices for energy
coverage up 15 percent to 35 percent, Guy Carpenter said in a
report published on its  website . The increases “were not as
great as had been predicted,” the broker said.  Hurricane Ike  In global aviation and aerospace, primary insurance rates
will continue to drop in 2011 because of “capacity in excess of
200 percent,” Guy Carpenter said. “This will lead to more
pressure on the reinsurance market to offer reductions.”  Hannover Re , the world’s third-biggest reinsurer, said
earlier this month that rates may decline in 2011 as this year’s
claims weren’t severe enough. The June-through-November 2010
U.S. hurricane season didn’t result in major damages. In 2008,
 Hurricane Ike  hit the U.S. coast and cost insurers $18.5
billion, according to  estimates  by Munich Re, making it the
second-most expensive natural disaster for the industry after
Hurricane Katrina, which cost insurers $62 billion in 2005.  Aon Benfield, the reinsurance brokerage of  Aon Corp. , said
in a separate  report  today that “following a U.S. hurricane
season with no land-falling events, reinsurers lowered rates at
a slower pace than last January.”  Rates for U.S. catastrophe reinsurance coverage that
includes hurricane protection fell by 5 percent to 10 percent,
reflecting primary insurers’ price decreases, according to Aon
Benfield. The outlook for renewals in April, June and July next
year “is for softening at a pace similar to what we observed
during the January 2011 renewals,” the broker said.  The reinsurance industry provided “ample” protection for
the Chile quake in February that cost insurers $8.5 billion,
making it the year’s most expensive disaster for the industry,
Aon Benfield Analytics Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Mildenhall  said in a statement on Dec. 16. Reinsurers’ capital
is at a record level, and supply of the funds to backstop
insurers may outstrip demand, lowering rates next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  