-- Rotating Bed Can’t Rekindle Passion in Grim ‘Valentine’: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-12-30T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/rotating-bed-can-t-rekindle-passion-in-grim-valentine-movies.html
The rating for “ Blue Valentine ”
was changed from NC-17 to R following an appeal by its
distributor, the Weinstein Co. Personally, I’d rate this
portrait of a broken marriage UG for unsparingly grim.  The NC-17 rating, based primarily on an inexplicit
oral sex scene between husband Dean ( Ryan Gosling ) and his wife
Cindy ( Michelle Williams ), would have barred anyone 17 or under
from seeing the film and kept it out of most theaters.  That misleadingly implied that “Blue Valentine” is
prurient. The movie is titillating only if you find the
emotional disintegration of a couple to be a sexual stimulant.  The performances by Gosling and Williams are so raw and
their characters so vulnerable that you might feel like a
Peeping Tom. The intimacy is intensified by all the extreme
close-ups, the home-video look and the soundtrack by the
Brooklyn band  Grizzly Bear .  Derek Cianfrance, the director and co-writer (along with
Joey Curtis and Cami Delavigne), switches back and forth between
the couple’s courtship years earlier and their present-day
problems. It’s a stark reminder of how true love can turn into
utter loathing.  They meet at a nursing home where Cindy is visiting her
grandma and Dean, who’s working for a moving company, is
unpacking for a new resident across the hall. He gives her his
business card and can’t get her out of his mind.  Boring Marriage  Dean purses Cindy, even though she already has a possessive
boyfriend. She tells him she wants to study medicine and sings a
tune about U.S. presidents; he plays the ukulele for her and
gets beat up by her jealous beau.  Cindy gets pregnant and, though she’s not certain who the
father is, they get married.  Fast forward to the present, when Cindy is working in a
doctor’s office and Dean is a house painter who dotes on his
young daughter. The marriage has deteriorated into a boring
routine, devoid of excitement and passion.  They try to rekindle the spark with a getaway at a cheesy
motel, but no magic is found in the rotating circular bed. Cindy
tells Dean he’s wasting his life, and Dean tells Cindy he can’t
understand why she’s so miserable.  The black cloud hovering over them is about to burst, and
it’s too late to avoid the downpour.  “Blue Valentine,” from the Weinstein Co., is playing in
New York and Los Angeles. Rating: ***  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 