-- Rousseff Is No Lula as Brazil Stocks Slump Before Inauguration
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-12-30T21:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/rousseff-is-no-lula-as-brazil-stock-index-slumps-in-runup-to-inauguration.html
Brazil’s President-elect Dilma Rousseff, faced with the highest inflation in 23 months and a
growing budget deficit, is failing to convince investors that
she can match her mentor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s record for
spurring economic growth.  The Bovespa index of most-traded stocks fell 2.4 percent
since Rousseff was elected Brazil’s first female president Oct.
31 through yesterday, as traders stepped up bets the central
bank will raise  interest rates  next year to keep consumer prices
in check. The index rose 0.5 percent today, bringing the gain
for the year to 1 percent, its worst-ever annual performance
when measured against the MSCI Emerging Markets index, which has
risen 16 percent.  To meet her goal of lowering real interest rates that are
the second-highest in the world after  Croatia , Rousseff will
have to contain federal spending that has risen 25 percent this
year and helped the economy grow an estimated 7.3 percent, the
most in two decades. She’ll inherit from Lula the most
overvalued currency in the world according to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., and a record current account gap of $49 billion.  “The easy job is over; the hard work is ahead,” said Eric Conrads, who helps manage $12 billion in emerging-market stocks,
including Brazil, at ING Investment Management in  New York .
“She has to strike a good balance between the strong currency,
the fiscal situation and the current account deficit without
killing the economy.”  Containing Spending  Yields on interest-rate futures due in January 2014 have
risen 54 basis points to 12.21 percent since her election and
yesterday, as traders increase bets incoming central bank
President Alexandre Tombini will have to raise borrowing costs
from 10.75 percent in the absence of spending restraint.
Inflation has been running above the government’s 4.5 percent
target all year.  Yields on interest rate futures maturing in January 2014
dropped 6 basis points to 12.15 percent today. The real climbed
1.1 percent to 1.6600 per dollar.  Rousseff takes office Jan. 1 in Brasilia.  The 63-year-old Rousseff, who served as Lula’s cabinet
chief, coasted to a runoff victory over  Jose Serra  by promising
to maintain the policies of her former boss. Lula is leaving
office with a record 87 percent approval rating.  Rousseff reappointed Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who
under Lula oversaw record lending by the state development bank
and a doubling of the fiscal deficit since 2008 to 2.74 percent
of gross domestic product. Mantega pledged in a Nov. 30
interview to block new spending in a bid to open room for lower
rates.  Lula’s Turnaround  Brazilian stocks may continue to trail other emerging
markets in early 2011, even as they remain attractively valued,
until Rousseff takes “concrete actions” to reduce government
spending, Goldman Sachs said in a Dec. 19 report.  “After the economic expansion we’ve seen, the government
needs to be very decisive in controlling spending,” said
Eduardo Favrin, who oversees about $2.5 billion as head of
equities for HSBC Global Asset Management’s  Brazil  unit in Sao
Paulo.  Rousseff’s transition team did not return several phone
calls and e-mails by Bloomberg seeking comment.  In the run-up to Lula’s first electoral victory in 2002,
the currency plummeted 61 percent, stocks fell 26 percent and
Brazil’s borrowing costs doubled on investor concerns the former
union leader would default on the country’s debt.  ‘Challenge of Abundance’  Once in office, he paid $15.5 billion in loans to the  International Monetary Fund  ahead of schedule and accumulated a
record $287 billion in international reserves. The Bovespa
averaged annual returns of 29 percent during Lula’s first seven
years in office.  Lula also gave the central bank, which lacks formal
independence, a free hand to fight inflation. That’s something
Rousseff will have to repeat with the 47-year-old Tombini
because policy makers in Brazil aren’t appointed to set terms
like their counterparts at the Federal Reserve,  Bank of England 
or  European Central Bank .  With Latin America’s biggest economy stabilized, Rousseff
will need to tackle longstanding obstacles to faster economic
growth like excessive red tape, poor infrastructure and high
taxes, said  Christopher Garman , director for Latin America at
the Washington-based Eurasia Group.  She also needs to improve education and health care to meet
the demands of 36 million Brazilians that have joined the middle
class under Lula, he said.  Cautious on Brazil  “Rousseff’s success will depend on her capacity to deliver
beyond keeping inflation under control,” said Garman. “Brazil
is facing the challenge of abundance -- it’s not an easy
agenda.”  Urgent concerns include a currency that has strengthened 34
percent against the  U.S. dollar  since the start of 2009, the
third-biggest gain among major currencies after the Australian
dollar and  South Africa ’s rand. The strong currency is fueling
imports that will narrow Brazil’s trade surplus next year to a
nine-year low of $11 billion, the central bank estimates.  John Ditieri, who helps oversee about $13.5 billion in
emerging-market equities at Arlington, Virginia-based Emerging
Markets Management, says he’s cautious on Brazil until its clear
how Rousseff will respond to the competing “political
pressures” of exporters, investors and lawmakers.  All Tools  “We just hope they attack things in a balanced and
responsible way,” says Ditieri. “They probably are going to
have to use all the tools they have.”  Rousseff, a former Marxist guerrilla who never ran for
office before being elected president, will be helped by bigger
support in  Congress  than Lula had. Her Workers’ Party and
coalition partners boosted to 49 from 43 Senators its majority
in the 81-seat chamber. Its control of the lower house taking
office Feb. 1 is likely to increase too.  Infrastructure spending to host the 2014 World Cup and 2016
Olympics, and the $108 billion state-controlled Petroleo
Brasileiro SA plans to invest through 2014 developing mainly
offshore oil finds, should secure up to 5 percent economic
growth even if Rousseff fails to address Brazil’s economic
weaknesses, said Ricardo Hausmann, an economics professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “That might feel like a great rate of growth given
Brazil’s history, but it’s so far below what is achievable,”
said Hausmann, a former planning minister of  Venezuela . “The
tragedy of Brazil is that it wouldn’t take that much for the
country to aspire to 7 percent growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  