-- Ruble Underperforms Peers in Best Year Since Outbreak of Financial Crisis
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-12-30T15:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/ruble-underperforms-peers-in-best-year-since-outbreak-of-financial-crisis.html
The  ruble , which capped its best
year against the central bank’s target dollar-euro basket since
before the credit crisis, underperformed major commodity-linked
currencies as lower interest rates and the ouster of Moscow’s
mayor eroded demand for Russia’s currency.  The  ruble  gained 2.3 percent versus the basket used to
manage swings that disadvantage exporters this year, the most
since 2006 when it added 3.3 percent. The advance was driven by
gains against the euro, with the ruble snapping four years of
declines against the common currency to strengthen 6.7 percent,
the biggest annual advance since at least 2004, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The ruble weakened 0.9 percent
against the dollar in 2010, the third straight yearly drop.  Russia’s currency lagged behind major commodity currencies
even amid 14 percent rise in crude oil, which along with natural
gas makes up about a quarter of Russia’s economic output.
Australia’s dollar surged 13 percent versus the greenback, the
South African rand added 11 percent and Brazil’s real
strengthened 4.8 percent.  “It’s not a surprise that the ruble strengthened this year
given what commodity prices did but the basket move is almost
negligible compared to what we saw for the rand and Brazil,”
said  Bartosz Pawlowski , head of currency and interest rates
strategy for central and eastern Europe, the Middle East and
Africa at BNP Paribas SA, the second-most accurate forecaster of
the dollar-ruble rate on Bloomberg in the third quarter. “Given
it is one of the cheapest commodity currencies around, I expect
a stronger performance next year.”  Lending Rates  The ruble “underperformed” this year because of Russia’s
comparatively lower interest rates and amid local political
concerns, Pawlowski said. The dismissal of Moscow mayor  Yuri Luzhkov , spurred Russians to convert their holdings, he said.  Russia’s 3.1 percent overnight MosPrime interbank  rate 
compares with Brazil’s 10.66 percent  Selic overnight rate  making
the ruble a less attractive target for the carry trade,
Pawlowski said. Russia’s relatively low interest rates compared
with other emerging markets ensured it didn’t have to combat
inflows like Brazil, which imposed a tax on foreigners’ bond
purchases, and South Korea, which started auditing banks’
foreign-currency trading, to limit gains in their currencies.  In carry trades, investors borrow funds in countries with
lower rates of interest -- such as the U.S. and Japan where
rates are near zero -- and invest them in places where the
returns are higher.  Luzhkov Dismissal  President Dmitry Medvedev fired Luzhkov in September after
18 years in office amid allegations he showed favoritism toward
his wife in approving contracts. Capital outflows intensified in
the second half of the year, with the central bank more than
doubling its year-end estimate in November to $22 billion. They
totaled between $25 billion and $30 billion this year, Bank
Rossii’s First Deputy Chairman Alexei, said yesterday, according
to Interfax.  In the last day of official trading on the Micex this year,
Russia’s currency weakened 0.3 percent to 30.57 per dollar by
the 5 p.m. close in Moscow. It slid versus the euro, tumbling
1.6 percent to 40.70. Those movements left it 0.9 percent weaker
at 35.1285 against the basket, which is calculated by
multiplying the dollar-ruble rate by 0.55, the euro-ruble rate
by 0.45, then adding them together.  Government spending of its ruble-denominated budget funds
before the end of the year has spurred the ruble’s slump this
week, according to  Evgeny Gavrilenkov , chief economist at Troika
Dialog in Moscow, Russia’s oldest investment bank.  ‘Too Many Rubles’  “Too many rubles came in from the budget in December,” he
said. Part of this excess liquidity went into buying foreign
currency thus increasing pressure on the ruble, he said.  Bank Rossii buys and sells foreign currency to manage the
ruble’s fluctuations and has targeted it against the basket
since 2005. The Moscow-based regulator intensified its move
toward a free floating exchange rate this year, widening the so-
called “floating corridor” it allows the ruble to trade versus
the basket and no longer targeting a specific rate of the ruble,
according to First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev . The
corridor may be expanded further in 2011, Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  said Dec. 23.  The ruble’s gains this year have been mainly against the
euro because Bank Rossii focuses its interventions more on the
dollar-ruble rate which is viewed by Russians and the government
as “a true reflection of the economy and its stability,” BNP’s
Pawlowski said by phone from London today. “The central bank
tends to keep the dollar rate capped.”  Ruble Forecast  BNP expects the ruble to appreciate 3.3 percent next year
as rising benchmark interest rates make Russian yields more
attractive to carry traders and oil prices above $90 a barrel
bolster the nation’s current account. It will strengthen to 34
versus the basket by the end of 2011, according to BNP’s
Pawlowski.  Traders are pricing in a 0.87 percentage point increase in
Russian interest rates in the next three months, according to
forward rate agreements, after the central bank raised the
deposit rate by 0.25 percentage point to 2.75 percent at its
Dec. 24 review. Inflation, which was at an 11-month-high of 8.1
percent in November, will spur Bank Rossii to raise all of its
key rates in the first quarter,  German Gref , chief executive
officer of OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, told reporters
after a meeting in Moscow yesterday.  Bank Rossii and the government agree on the regulator’s
management regime for the ruble and both think a free floating
currency is ”desirable,” Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said
yesterday in Moscow.  Flexible Approach  The central bank’s more flexible approach to the ruble will
also bolster it next year, said Troika’s Gavrilenkov, who sees
the ruble at about 34.5 versus the basket by the end of March.  Moscow’s  Micex exchange , which trades currency, stocks and
local bonds, will be closed for the annual New Year holiday
break from Dec. 31 to Jan. 10, spokesman  Nikita Bekasov  said
last week.  Russia’s dollar bonds due April 2020 rose for a second day
today, pushing the yield down 4 basis points to 5 percent. The
yield has dropped 31 basis points since the bond was first
issued in April. The yield on government ruble bonds maturing
March 2016 rose 9 basis points to 7.64 percent today, and has
increased 49 basis points since the debt was first sold in
August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net  