-- Schwarzenegger's Build America Bonds Outperform With 7% Yield: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-12-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/schwarzenegger-s-build-america-bonds-outperform-with-7-yield-muni-credit.html
Build America Bonds from  California ,
the biggest issuer of the taxable debt in 2010, outperformed the
market in the last six weeks as the state’s 7.25 percent yield
lured investors unfazed by the lowest state credit rating.  The extra yield above U.S. Treasuries demanded by buyers of
30-year California Build Americas sold Nov. 19 fell to  2.8
percentage points  on Dec. 28 from 3.3 points when issued,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average spread on
Build Americas jumped to 1.95 percentage points from 1.9 points
in the same period, according to a  Wells Fargo index .  After the program expires tomorrow, Build America investors
may be less concerned with creditworthiness than liquidity, or
how easily they can be sold, making secondary-market debt from
the largest issuers more attractive. California will likely
provide the most value to investors heading into 2011, said  Bud Byrnes , chief executive officer at Encino, California-based RH
Investment Corp., which specializes in the state’s securities.  “People were paying up for a good name and are now coming
back toward the rest of the field,” Byrnes said. “People are
backing away from higher-rated states. There isn’t a problem
selling those states, there’s a problem finding those bonds.”  The Build America program, part of President  Barack Obama’s 
stimulus package, is set to end tomorrow after Congress failed
to extend it. Issuers across the U.S. moved up planned sales to
this month to take advantage of the expiring subsidy, making the
last three months of 2010 the biggest quarter for the securities
since their April 2009 inception, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average yield of Build Americas was  6.48 percent 
Dec. 28, according to the Wells Fargo index.  California, Illinois  California has sold about $5.5 billion in Build Americas,
the most of any issuer, Bloomberg data show.  Illinois  is second,
with $3.2 billion, followed by New York City’s $3.1 billion.  Illinois and California both have Moody’s Investors
Service’s fifth-highest A1 rating, though Moody’s has Illinois
with a negative outlook. Standard & Poor’s ranks Illinois at A+,
two levels higher than California at A-, S&P’s fourth-lowest
investment grade.  “Larger issuers are the best investment because they are
easily followed by ratings agencies and remain more liquid,”
 Mike Pietronico , chief executive officer of New York-based
Miller Tabak Asset Management, who manages $360 million in
munis, said in a telephone interview.  Utah’s Spread  Even though  Utah , which sold $653 million of Build
Americas, carries top rankings from all three major credit
rating companies, the spread on 15-year securities climbed to
1.07 percentage points yesterday from 1.01 points Nov. 19.  Bondholders of issuers such as Utah may suffer from a lack
of liquidity with the end of the program, Byrnes said.  New York City, which carries third-highest ratings, in June
sold 30-year Build Americas yielding 1.7 percentage points above
Treasuries.  The spread reached 1.88 points  on Nov. 19 before
falling to a low of 1.41 points Dec. 28, Bloomberg data show.  Like California, New York City’s Build Americas will
continue to outperform because of the greater liquidity the
issuers will maintain even after the program expires, said  Matt Fabian , managing director of Municipal Market Advisors, an
independent research firm based in Concord, Massachusetts.  ‘Fair Amount of Trading’  “Because California and New York are some of the biggest
BAB issuers, there is a fair amount of trading and therefore
better liquidity,” Fabian said in a telephone interview. “Even
with the potential for headline risk and lower ratings, you have
more liquidity and a better price.”  California’s budget for the year that ends in June, which
passed a record 100 days late because lawmakers disagreed on how
to close a $19 billion gap, is out of balance by $6 billion,
according to the state’s Legislative Analyst’s Office.  “Ultimately, we are the eighth-largest economy in the
world and wherever BABs come they are going to trade up,”
Byrnes said. Investors are “moving toward California because
the yields were just too good.”  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  METROPOLITAN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT OF GREATER CHICAGO ,
a wastewater utility that serves more than 5 million people,
plans to sell as much as $500 million in taxable and tax-exempt
debt next year. The offering will need to be re-authorized in
January, so a new pricing date hasn’t been set, according to
acting Treasurer  Mary Ann Boyle . The bulk of the issue will be
tax-free bonds, she said. The securities are top-ranked by all
three major credit-rating companies. (Updated Dec. 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  