-- MSCI World Erases Loss Since Lehman 17 Months After Emerging Markets Gauge
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-12-30T15:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/msci-world-erases-loss-since-lehman-17-months-after-emerging-markets-gauge.html
Stocks in developed nations took 17
months longer than emerging markets to erase losses spurred by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy, recovering
after the Federal Reserve took steps to stimulate growth.  The  MSCI World  Index of 1,660 companies in 24 developed
countries such as the U.S., U.K. and Japan rose as high as
1,283.68 yesterday. The gauge surpassed its closing level of
1,283.14 on Sept. 12, 2008, the last session before Lehman’s
collapse caused a 46 percent drop through March 2009.  Developed nations are lagging behind the 21-country MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, which finished its recovery in August
2009 and rallied another 31 percent after stocks from  Brazil  to  Turkey  advanced amid faster growth. As confidence in the U.S.
and European economies waned, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
suggested four months ago that he might purchase bonds,
triggering a global equity rally.  The “new economic leadership is reflected by emerging
market stocks, which recovered to pre-Lehman levels much faster
than have developed stock markets,” said James Paulsen, chief
investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital
Management, which oversees about $340 billion. “Economic
activity in these regions did not slow or contract as deeply and
have recovered much faster.”  Emerging economies may expand 6.4 percent in 2011, almost
three times the 2.2 percent rate for developed nations,
according to the International Monetary Fund. Government debt
will probably amount to 37 percent of emerging-market gross
domestic product next year and budget deficits will be 2.9
percent, compared with levels of 101 percent and 6.7 percent in
advanced nations, the Washington-based fund predicts.  12-Year Low  The MSCI World Index surged 86 percent through yesterday
since sinking to a 12-year low of 688.64 in March 2009. Stocks
have rallied around the world as central banks kept  interest
rates  near record lows while governments spent trillions of
dollars to spur growth, boosting confidence in the global
economy and helping equity markets overcome the worst financial
crisis since the 1930s.  “We were priced for the end of the world until mid-March
2009,” said Komal Sri-Kumar, who helps manage $111 billion as
chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc. in  Los Angeles . “So
when Armageddon didn’t happen, we had a significant jump from
the lows. Add to this massive fiscal and monetary stimulus, the
continued healthy growth in emerging markets and Bernanke’s
quantitative easing speech at the end of August.”  The MSCI World Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,277.75 as of
10:39 a.m. in  New York . The MSCI Emerging Markets rose 0.9
percent to 1,146.51, its third straight gain, as Chinese
manufacturing expanded.  Quantitative Easing  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index surged 20 percent through
yesterday since Bernanke’s Aug. 27  speech  in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , where he foreshadowed the second round of quantitative
easing. The central bank said in November it will buy an
additional $600 billion of bonds through June, expanding on
record stimulus of $1.7 trillion in asset purchases. The S&P 500
erased its loss on Dec. 21.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index, a gauge of stock markets in the
region, tumbled as much as 15 percent from its 2010 peak in
April amid concern that  Europe ’s government-debt crisis could
derail the economic recovery. The region’s leaders were forced
by  Greece ’s financial crisis to provide 860 billion euros ($1.1
trillion) in emergency support in May.  The European Central Bank cut its rate to 1 percent in May
2009 to fight the worst recession in its history. A year later
the central bank began buying government bonds for the first
time to ease credit-market tensions as investors focused on
growing budget deficits. As recently as this month, the ECB was
forced to delay a further withdrawal of unlimited liquidity
support to euro-area banks.  Foundation  “The recovery was built on a foundation of trillions in
combined fiscal and monetary stimulus,” said Rob Arnott,
founder of Research Affiliates LLC, which oversees about $61
billion in Newport Beach,  California . “All that money has been
pouring into an economy that is reluctant to absorb it because
of uncertainty over future regulations and investments, so it
has been parked in capital markets.”  The MSCI World Index must rise more than 30 percent to
exceed its record high in October 2007, when markets rallied as
the U.S. economy expanded at the fastest pace in a year and a
half and the Fed cut its target overnight lending rate to
prevent a recession. A contraction began in December 2007 and
ended in June 2009, according to the National Bureau of Economic
Research in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Israel’s TA-25 Index, which MSCI Inc. shifted to developed-
market from emerging-market status in May, is the best
performing measure among nations in the MSCI World Index. It has
surged 41 percent since September 2008 as.  Sweden,  Hong Kong   Sweden’s OMX Stockholm 30 Index has rallied 37 percent
since Lehman’s bankruptcy for the second-best performance among
developed markets. The combination of surging exports and
Europe’s smallest deficits boosted optimism for Nordic markets.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index , whose 19 percent gain is
fifth-best, reached a 31-month high on Nov. 8 amid rising
domestic property prices and reports that showed China’s economy
gaining momentum. The gauge has gained 5 percent this year,
after rallying 52 percent in 2009, on speculation growth in
corporate profits would counter  China ’s steps to curb property-
price inflation.  “We have settled into a sustainable but still sub-par
recovery by historical standards,” said David Joy, chief market
strategist at Columbia Management in  Boston , which oversees $327
billion. “Clearly the developed markets will trail the emerging
markets because they simply didn’t have the same degree of
downturn and strains on their financial systems as we did.”  Greece, which was forced into a bailout from the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund, and Ireland have the
worst performances among countries in the MSCI World Index since
the beginning of the financial crisis. Greece’s benchmark stock
index, the ASE Index, is down 54 percent since September 2008
while Ireland’s ISEQ Overall Index has lost 34 percent.  Financial Stocks  Financial stocks have lost 20 percent as a group since
Lehman’s failure, the most among 10 industries, led by an 89
percent slump in Dublin-based Bank of Ireland Plc. Lenders were
dragged down by $1.7 trillion of global bank losses and
writedowns tied to property loans during the credit crisis that
began with mortgage defaults and accelerated with the collapse
of New York-based Lehman in 2008.  Companies reliant on consumers’ discretionary spending --
including Los Gatos, California-based  Netflix Inc . and Hong
Kong-based  SJM Holdings Ltd .,  Asia ’s biggest listed casino
operator -- recovered their pre-Lehman level on March 12 and the
group of 245 companies has surged 18 percent since then, the
most among 10 industries in the MSCI World Index.  ‘Fancy Terms’  “The best way to play to the deepest consumer recession in
70 years as an active equity manager was to buy the consumer
discretionary stocks,” said Doug Ramsey, Leuthold Group LLC’s
director of research in  Minneapolis . “Consumer stocks had
already underperformed going into the Lehman event. It was a
classic case of when strategists finally got their head around
the economic trends to coin fancy terms like new normal and the
frugal future, it was already over and it was time to go the
other way.”  Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees the
world’s biggest bond mutual fund, said in May 2009, one month
before end of the U.S. recession, that rising government
deficits and regulation would hold gains in equities and bonds
below historical averages. Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco’s co-chief
investment officer, said in an e-mail on Dec. 1 that the
forecast has a 55 percent to 60 percent chance of coming true.  The global market recovery was established months ago,
according to Arnott, who uses fundamental indexing to invest,
giving weight to sales, net worth, earnings and dividends to
determine what proportion of an index’s value each stock should
represent.  Arnott’s  FTSE RAFI US 1000 Index , the 1000 largest
companies in the US weighted by company size rather than market
capitalization and assembled by S&P competitor FTSE Group,
recouped all of the post-Lehman losses by Jan. 5. Companies in
the MSCI World Index are weighted according to market value.  “The recovery is now very old news,” Arnott said. “The
big story about the recovery of the post-Lehman damage is not
that we seem poised to recoup the loss, it’s that these indexes
took way longer than they needed to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 