-- Serb Prosecutors Say Modigliani Painting May Fund Hadzic's Life on the Run
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-12-30T16:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/serbs-say-modigliani-painting-may-fund-hadzic-s-life-on-the-run.html
Serbian war crimes fugitive  Goran Hadzic  may be trying to finance his life in hiding through the
sale of art, including an  Amedeo Modigliani  painting worth
millions of dollars, prosecutors said.  Police today found about 50 paintings, including a photo of
a Modigliani oil painting, as they searched the home of one of
Hadzic’s friends for evidence that may lead to the fugitive, who
is wanted by the  United Nations War Crimes Tribunal , the office
of Serbia’s war crimes prosecutor said in an e-mailed statement.  The Modigliani is estimated “to be worth several millions
of euros,” according to the statement. “It is suspected that
the painting belongs to Hadzic and that it was meant to be sold
so as to raise money for his hiding.”  This is the second time this month that police have
searched for Hadzic, 52, at large since 2004, as the government
steps up efforts to arrest him and  Ratko Mladic , accused of
committing atrocities during the breakup of Yugoslavia.  The failure to arrest the two men has been the main
obstacle to Serbia’s effort to join the European Union. Chief UN
War Crimes Prosecutor  Serge Brammertz , in his year-end report to
the Security Council, expressed concern about Serbia’s failure
to make the arrests.  The European Commission last month gave Serbia a February
2011 deadline to complete a list of about 2,500 questions on
political, economic and social changes needed to join the bloc.
The answers will help the 27-nation EU decide whether to grant
Serbia candidate status by the end of next year.  Modigliano, an Italian painter and sculptor who died in
1920, is known for his portraits and female nudes. His “Nu
Assis sur un Divan (La Belle Romaine),” painted in 1917, sold
for $68.96 million last month in New York, a record for the
artist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  