-- Shinhan Chooses Suh Jin Won as CEO of Banking Unit After Lee's Indictment
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-12-30T06:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/shinhan-financial-names-suh-jin-won-shinhan-bank-chief-executive-officer.html
Shinhan Financial Group Co. , South
Korea’s largest financial company by market value, named its
life insurance unit president to head Shinhan Bank, replacing
 Lee Baek Soon  who offered to resign following an indictment.  A committee of three Shinhan Financial directors nominated
 Suh Jin Won , 59, as chief executive officer of Shinhan Bank, the
Seoul-based company said in an e-mailed statement today. Suh
will serve as CEO until March 2012, the company said.  The appointment at the banking unit will likely open a
 management  reshuffle at Shinhan Financial and end four months of
turmoil surrounding its top management. Shinhan Bank in
September asked South Korean prosecutors to investigate former
president  Shin Sang Hoon  for embezzlement and breach of duty.  “The new CEO will swiftly deal with internal confusion and
conflicts and take steps to normalize operations,” it said in
the statement.  Shinhan Financial  fell 1.3 percent to 52,900 won at the
3 p.m. close Seoul of trading. The key Kospi index advanced
0.4 percent.  Shinhan Bank’s Lee yesterday said he would resign to help
stabilize the group following the indictment, without providing
details. The group’s board named  Ryoo Shee Yul  as acting CEO on
Oct. 30 and formed a committee to find new leaders by March.  Yonhap News reported Lee’s resignation yesterday, saying he
and former Shinhan Financial president Shin were both indicted
on suspicion of embezzlement.  While denying wrongdoing, Shin resigned earlier this month,
and the group’s Chairman  Ra Eung Chan  stepped down on Oct. 30
after saying he opened accounts with other people’s names in
violation of local banking rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  