-- Singapore Economy Probably Expanded on Manufacturing, Capping Record Year
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   J a y   W a n g
-- 2010-12-31T03:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/singapore-s-economy-probably-expanded-on-manufacturing-rebound.html
Singapore’s economy probably
returned to growth this quarter as manufacturing rebounded,
putting the nation on course to surpass Malaysia’s output with
the world’s second-fastest growth rate this year.  Gross domestic product rose an annualized 9.4 percent in
the three months through Dec. 31 from the previous quarter, when
it contracted 18.7 percent, according to the median estimate of
eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The economy grew
13.2 percent from a year earlier, the median of 12 estimates
showed. The report is due at 8 a.m. on Jan. 3.  Asia has led a global recovery this year as growth in
developed markets was restrained by Europe’s sovereign credit
woes and U.S. unemployment that remains above 9 percent. Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong has said Singapore can’t maintain this
year’s pace of expansion, forecast at 15 percent, and his policy
makers have moved to cool the property market and allowed faster
currency gains to tame prices.  “Inflation risks for Singapore appear to be tilted toward
the upside,” said Alvin Liew, a Singapore-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc. After the boost from manufacturing this
year, Singapore’s tourism and financial services industries will
increasingly drive growth in 2011, spurred by “rising regional
domestic demand from China and Southeast Asia,” he said.  Lee may give some economic estimates in his annual New
Year’s Eve message later today. The government expects GDP to
expand as much as 6 percent in 2011, and its forecast for this
year would make the city of 5 million people the fastest-growing
economy in the world after Qatar’s, according to International
Monetary Fund estimates.  Overtaking Malaysia  Singapore’s GDP may reach about $210 billion this year
after rising at the fastest pace since independence in 1965,
while the economy of Malaysia, a country 478 times its size,
will expand 7 percent to $205 billion, government forecasts show.
Malaysia was Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy last year,
behind Indonesia and Thailand.  The Singapore dollar has climbed more than 8 percent
against the U.S. currency this year, marking its biggest one-
year gain since 1994 and the fourth-best performance in Asia
excluding Japan. The currency, which rose 0.3 percent to
S$1.2872 versus the U.S. dollar at 11:40 a.m. today, may
strengthen to S$1.24 at the end of 2011, according to a central
bank survey of economists published this month.  Inflation Quickens  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  said in October it will
steepen and widen the currency’s trading band while continuing
to seek a “modest and gradual appreciation,” after undertaking
a one-time revaluation in April. The central bank, which uses
the exchange rate rather than a benchmark interest rate as its
main tool to manage inflation, guides the Singapore dollar
against a basket of currencies within an undisclosed band.  Inflation will average between 2 percent and 3 percent next
year, the central bank predicts. Consumer prices rose 3.8
percent in November, the biggest increase in 22 months.  Singapore, located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(966-kilometer) Malacca Strait, has remained vulnerable to
fluctuations in overseas demand for manufactured goods even
after the government boosted financial services and tourism.  The island’s non-oil exports, which are forecast to
increase 24 percent this year, are equivalent to more than half
of GDP. Industrial production rose at the fastest pace in six
months in November, climbing 39.8 percent from a year earlier
after a 29.8 percent gain in October. In comparison, industrial
output grew about 14 percent last quarter.  Ship Orders  The island’s biggest companies are boosting operations or
expanding overseas as the global economy recovers from last
year’s slump.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd ., Southeast Asia’s biggest
bank, said this month it will take over Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.’s retail and commercial banking businesses in China.  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd., owner of Asia’s second-largest
container line and controlled by Singapore state-investment fund
Temasek Holdings Pte, in July signed a $1.2 billion contract for
as many as 12 vessels with Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. Singapore is the world’s second-busiest
container port.  The island has also benefited from rising visitor arrivals
as new attractions such as the country’s first casinos lure
tourists. The resorts run by  Genting Singapore Plc  and  Las Vegas
Sands Corp . incorporate gambling centers, restaurants, malls and
a Universal Studios Inc. theme park.    Singapore Airlines Ltd ., the world’s second-largest carrier
by market value, said last month it would increase capacity as
business travelers and holidaymakers reserve more flights.  The city state added 82,000 jobs in the nine months through
September, pushing the unemployment rate to 2.1 percent, the
lowest level in 2 1/2 years. Average wages before adjusting for
inflation rose 5.4 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  