-- Skype IPhone Service May Speed Adoption of Video Calling on Mobile Phones
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-12-30T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/skype-iphone-service-may-speed-adoption-of-mobile-video-calling.html
Skype Technology SA, the biggest
provider of international calls, introduced video calling for
Apple Inc.’s wireless devices, a move that may broaden the
appeal of mobile videoconferencing.  The newest version of Skype’s application lets users of the
iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch make or receive video calls via 3G
or Wi-Fi connections, the company said today in a statement.  The company had previously offered its free mobile video-
call app only for Nokia Oyj’s  N900 smartphone . Luxembourg-based
Skype is seeking to increase the number of subscribers who may
eventually buy its premium services. The new app will compete
with existing iPhone and iPod calling services offered by Apple,
Fringland Ltd. and Tango.  “Skype has significant scale,” said wireless consultant
Chetan Sharma, founder of  Chetan Sharma Consulting  in Issaquah,
Washington. “Whatever they introduce has the opportunity to
make significant impact.”  In June, Skype had 560 million global users of its mobile
and desktop software, according to an August regulatory filing.
In the first half of 2010, video calls accounted for 40 percent
of all Skype-to-Skype call minutes, the company said.  The app may help bolster Skype’s brand as the company
prepares for an initial public offering. Skype, which filed for
an IPO in August, hasn’t set a date for the share sale.  “They become incrementally more valuable, Sharma said.  ‘Same Quality’  In two years, as many as 20 percent of wireless subscribers
may use video calling, if carriers don’t jack up prices, Sharma
said. The increase would come as more phones are equipped with
front-facing cameras, a feature needed to run the app.  Apple, HTC Corp., Nokia and  Dell Inc.  have released mobile
devices with front-facing cameras.  Internet-connected devices are proliferating, from tablet
computers to TVs. Skype wants subscribers to be able to access
its full set of services regardless of the platform they’re
using, especially as consumers increasingly rely on personal
phones for business, Chief Executive Officer  Tony Bates  said.  “You should have the same experience,” Bates, 43, said in
an interview. “It shouldn’t be different. We should have the
same quality and same expectations across devices.”  Apple hasn’t released usage statistics for FaceTime, its
IPhone 4 and IPod touch video-calling service that’s also being
tested for the Macintosh computer.  Fringland’s  Fring service has
already connected 100 million video calls, about 40 percent of
them among U.S. users, said Jake Levant, vice president of
marketing at Fring.  ‘Next Growth Curve’  Until now, most mobile video calls have happened via Wi-Fi
connections at homes and coffee shops. Some carriers don’t offer
video calling over 3G networks. That could change as companies
like Skype release apps that run on the networks.  The growing popularity of video calling may lead carriers
to charge consumers more for data access. Heavy users of mobile
video calls may need to switch to more expensive data plans. An
average video call consumes five to 10 times more bandwidth than
a voice call, according to Sharma.  “We are giving the operators the next growth curve,”
Fring’s Levant said. “There’s certainly a lot more money
there.”  Carriers will need the extra cash to expand the capacity of
their networks, which are becoming increasingly stretched by
streaming of movies, YouTube clips and other video.  “Video calls will add further strain to the network,”
said  David Sharpley , senior vice president of marketing and
product management for Bridgewater Systems Corp., a supplier of
network software. “We’ve seen operators’ networks get congested
already, without a huge amount of video pickup.”  In the past few years,  AT&T Inc.  has moved to increase its
network capacity in urban areas such as New York and San
Francisco after complaints about dropped calls and slow
connections.  Last week, Skype’s own network crashed and resulted in
interrupted service for more than 24 hours after the company’s
servers became overloaded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Olga Kharif  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  