-- Soybeans Gain on Speculation About Drought Damage to Argentina's Harvest
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-30T14:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/soybeans-drop-as-forecast-rain-eases-drought-concern-over-argentina-crops.html
Soybeans advanced in Chicago on
speculation that rain forecast for Argentina next week will be
too light to avoid crop damage from drought.  Soybeans for March delivery rose 0.1 percent to $13.78 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:14 p.m. Paris time.
The oilseed reached a 28-month high on Dec. 28 and has climbed
31 percent this year, heading for a second annual gain in a row.  Argentina’s soybean crop, the world’s third-largest, may
fall 17 percent to as little as 43 million metric tons in the
2010-2011 season due to drought caused by the La Nina weather
phenomenon, researcher Economia y Regiones said Dec. 28. Only
the U.S. and Brazil harvest more soybeans than Argentina,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  “The market is worried about the supply of soybeans and
corn,”  Eric Bailon , president of Manila-based grain importer
Paritas Trading Corp., said by phone today. “Concerns about the
weather persist, and a few days of rain may not solve the
problem.”  Argentina’s soybean-growing areas may face another month of
drought or more caused by La Nina weather conditions, forecaster
British Weather Services said today.  Corn for March delivery dropped 0.4 percent to $6.2125 a
bushel. The most-active contract has gained 50 percent this
year, the best performer of the most-traded grains in Chicago.  Crops ‘Under Duress’  “If the heat and dry conditions continue for another week,
the crops in both Argentina and Brazil will be diminished,”
economist  Dennis Gartman  said in his daily newsletter. “Dry
conditions continue, and the corn and soybeans crops there are
under duress.”  Wheat for March delivery lost 1.1 percent to $7.9075 a
bushel, trimming this year’s gain to 46 percent. Milling wheat
for January delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris slipped 1
percent to 250 euros ($331.58) a ton.  “Markets are consolidating in this period at the end of
the year, with moves more related to technical adjustments than
to fundamentals,” Paris-based farm adviser Agritel said in a
comment on its website today.  March-delivery rice gained 0.3 percent to $13.925 per 100
pounds in Chicago, reducing the most-active contract’s drop this
year to 6.5 percent.  Output from the main rice harvest in Thailand, the world’s
biggest exporter of the grain, may drop 5.3 percent to 22
million tons after flooding destroyed crops, the Office of
Agricultural Economics said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Manila at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at   rdobson4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 