-- Storm Delays Reveal Flip Side of Aviation's Drive for Efficiency
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e ,   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2010-12-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/storm-chaos-in-u-s-discloses-flip-side-of-airlines-drive-for-efficiency.html
The U.S. aviation system’s struggles
to recover from snowstorms that closed  New York ’s airports this
week reflect the unintended consequences of airlines’ efforts to
squeeze out costs.  Flights are so full and scheduled so tightly that there is
no room for quick recovery when airports are closed, industry
analysts said. Stranded passengers’ complaints about confusion
and lack of communication may prompt reviews by air carriers and
regulators about what happened and how to best respond the next
time poor weather coincides with a busy travel period.  “When your planes are all 90 percent full and you cancel a
flight, it’s going to take you another 10 flights to re-
accommodate all those passengers,” said Darryl Jenkins, a
Virginia-based aviation industry consultant. “We won’t be able
to re-accommodate everybody.”  Airlines have reduced seating capacity by 9.1 percent and
full-time equivalent employment by 14 percent in the past five
years, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Transportation
Statistics . The capacity reduction and increased passenger
demand, as the economy improved, have created the airline
industry’s highest load factors since World War II.  That means that available seats are scarce for the as many
as 1.2 million passengers who may have been affected by about
8,200 cancellations due to the snowstorm, and there are fewer
employees at airports and reservation centers to assist those
passengers.  Calls for Help    United Continental Holdings Inc .’s Continental Airlines,
which fired 600 of its 2,600 reservation agents in February
because more passengers were booking on the Internet, said
yesterday that call volume was 2 1/2 times normal this week as
passengers sought assistance in rebooking flights.  The airline, which has a hub at Newark Liberty airport, has
brought in more than 300 additional customer service agents,
increased overtime pay and deployed 45 volunteers from Houston
to Newark to help rebook passengers, said Christen David, a
Continental spokeswoman.  Tim Omaggio, a Morristown,  New Jersey , father whose
daughter was scheduled to fly from Newark to Phoenix on Dec. 28,
filed a complaint with Continental after being unable to get
help from airline employees at the airport or on the phone.  “That should have been all hands on deck, without a
doubt,” Omaggio said in an interview yesterday. “I’ve been in
a lot of these delays while traveling on business. If you’re
communicated to and told what’s going on like an adult, people
are a lot more understanding. But when you’re told nothing, or
sent to something that turns out to be a dead end, it makes it
that much worse. It was just a lot of poor communication.”    Newark , JFK  At least 332 flights were canceled yesterday, three days
after the worst December snowstorm to hit  New York City  in six
decades. The disruptions affected the nation’s largest and most
congested air travel market during one of the busiest times of
the year. Thousands of flights were canceled each day during the
three-day storm and aftermath, spokesmen for U.S. airlines have
said.    JetBlue Airways Corp ., which has a hub at New York’s John
F. Kennedy International Airport, canceled 120 flights yesterday
and said its backlog of stranded passengers may not be fully
cleared until Jan. 1. Flights coming into Kennedy were delayed
by an average of 2 hours, 3 minutes at 7 p.m. New York time
yesterday, according to the  Federal Aviation Administration .  Continental also canceled 120 flights yesterday, primarily
those operated by regional partners at Newark Liberty, David
said.  Incoming flights to Newark were delayed by an average of 44
minutes as of 7 p.m. yesterday, according to the FAA.
Additionally, the FAA said on its web site, thunderstorms in
Houston delayed departing flights by up to 59 minutes as of 7
p.m. New York time yesterday, further hampering Continental’s
operations.  Efficiency Drive  Because the initial cause of this week’s  flight delays  and
cancellations was weather, customers will be more forgiving than
with delays for other reasons, said Dean Headley, co-author of
the annual Airline Quality Rating and an associate professor of
marketing at Wichita State University in  Kansas .  “With the load factors being what they are, the capacity
reductions and everything, people have to understand that’s a
good possibility even with good weather that flights get
canceled,” Headley said in an interview yesterday. “If you
miss a flight, you can’t just hop on the next airplane.”    David Swierenga , president of aviation consultant AeroEcon
in  Round Rock ,  Texas , said demand for low fares has forced
airlines to cut costs by, among other things, leaving fewer
empty seats.  “We deregulated the industry to improve the efficiency of
the industry and the airlines responded to that in spades,”
Swierenga said in an interview yesterday.  Return to Profitability  The eight biggest U.S. carriers as a group in July reported
their first quarterly profit after 10 straight losses stretching
back to the final three months of 2007. During the three-year
period, the airlines faced surging fuel prices, a slump in
business travel during the recession and the outbreak of the
H1N1 virus that prompted the suspension of some international
flights.  Airlines’ hands are tied, said Hunter Keay, a Baltimore-
based airline analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “There’s really not much the airlines can do at this
point,” Keay said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “They are sort of beholden to the weather. The
airports are obviously working as hard as they can to clear the
storms.”  The airline industry and regulators must evaluate what
happened this week and make sure airlines, airports and
government agencies have coordinated contingency plans, said
Steve Lott, a spokesman for the Montreal-based  International Air
Transport Association .  ‘Finger Pointing’  “We have to find out exactly what happened first,” Lott
said in an interview. “It will take time. There are many
parties involved, but primarily it’s the airlines, the airport
and the government. There’s a lot of finger pointing that goes
on, unfortunately.”  The U.S. Transportation Department is looking into details
of the New York flight delays and will review other cases,  Olivia Alair , an agency spokeswoman, said in an interview.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has been updated on the
situation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  