-- Sugar Tumbles 10% as Initial Skid Triggers Computerized `Stop Loss' Orders
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-12-30T20:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/sugar-tumbles-as-demand-ebbs-after-rally-coffee-cocoa-drop-in-new-york.html
Sugar futures plunged 10 percent as
computerized trading triggered sales following an early slide
spurred by bets that demand may ease on the heels of the rally
in the second half of 2010.  “You had an initial movement that triggered a lot of stop
losses,” or orders to sell when the price drops to a specified
level, said Ricardo Scaff, a trader at Rabobank International in  New York . “Some trading systems are automatic, and once they
see the movement, they add to it.”  Raw-sugar futures for March delivery slumped 3.45 cents to
settle at 30.38 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York. The percentage drop was the biggest since Nov. 12. On
that date, the commodity plunged 12 percent, the most since July
1988, as speculation that  China  would increase borrowing costs
roiled commodity markets.  “A sell-off was expected at the end of the year,” said
Mario Silveira, an analyst at FCStone Group Inc. in Campinas,  Brazil . “No one thought it would be of this magnitude.”  Companies are switching to substitute sweeteners because of
high sugar prices,  Michael McDougall , a senior vice president at
Newedge USA, said this week in a report. Yesterday, futures
dropped 1.6 percent.  Yesterday, the price reached 34.77 cents, the highest since
November 1980, as floods damaged crops in Australia, the world’s
third-biggest exporter.  Brazil, Thailand  Anna Bligh, the premier of Australia’s Queensland state,
said today that floods resulted in “a disaster that is going to
run into the billions of dollars.” Adverse weather also has
hurt crops in Brazil, the top exporter, and Thailand, the
second-biggest.  In the second half of this year, sugar has jumped 89
percent, the biggest gain among 19 raw materials in the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index. In 2010, the sweetener is up 13
percent. The price plunged 40 percent in the first half.  Refined-sugar futures for March delivery fell $65.10, or
7.9 percent, to $761.30 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in  London ,
the biggest drop since Nov. 12. The price jumped 62 percent in
the second half of the year.  “There is a pullback in the market,” said  Tom Mikulski , a
senior strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in Chicago. “Also,
there is bound be some profit-taking at this time of the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Patrick McKiernan  at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net . 