-- Sumitomo Mitsui's Kitayama to Resign, Miyata to Be President, Yomiuri Says
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-12-30T06:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/sumitomo-mitsui-s-kitayama-to-resign-miyata-named-president-yomiuri-says.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. 
President  Teisuke Kitayama  will step down and be replaced by
 Koichi Miyata  as soon as April, the Yomiuri newspaper reported,
without saying where it got the information.  Nothing has been decided, said a spokesman for the Tokyo-
based lender who asked not to be identified, declining to
comment further.  Takeshi Kunibe  will take over from  Masayuki Oku 
as president of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., the group’s
banking unit, the newspaper reported.  Since becoming president of Japan’s second-biggest lender
in 2005, Kitayama steered its focus toward business abroad as
economic stagnation and a declining population curtailed lending
demand at home. Last year, Sumitomo Mitsui bought Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc. from Citigroup Inc. to expand investment banking
worldwide, and in January purchased a stake in Hong Kong-based
Bank of East Asia Ltd. to tap business in China.  “Unless someone really charismatic takes the presidency,
Japanese megabanks’ business won’t change dramatically,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million in Tokyo at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “The new presidents,
whoever they will be, will follow the same path of overseas
business, including Asia.”  Japan’s second-biggest lender by market value has
outperformed its rivals on the Tokyo Stock Exchange this year,
climbing 9.3 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. ,
Japan’s biggest bank, lost 2.9 percent in 2010 and Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. dropped 7.8 percent. Sumitomo Mitsui slid
1.9 percent today to end the year at 2,892 yen.  Wealth Management  The bank is also diversifying its domestic business.
Kitayama, 64, said in an interview this month that it is
targeting about 600 billion yen ($7.3 billion) in wealth
management assets through a tie-up with Barclays Plc, betting
 Japanese  will move away from traditional retirement savings.  Kitayama said he also plans to tap the Barclays venture to
fund infrastructure projects in Africa as domestic lending slows.
 Bank lending  in Japan declined for a 12th month in November, and
the government forecasts economic growth will slow to 1.5
percent in the year starting April 1 from a projected 3.1
percent this fiscal year.  “We will continue to inject resources overseas and into
our brokerage businesses, which is a growing field,” Kitayama
told reporters on Nov. 12.  Separately, Kitayama said in an interview with the Sankei
newspaper that Sumitomo Mitsui may increase its stake in
consumer lending affiliate  Promise Co.  Sumitomo Mitsui is ready
to support Promise with human resources and operating cash,
according to the report.  Sumitomo Mitsui currently holds a 21 percent stake in
Promise, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese consumer lenders are struggling amid a four-year
crackdown on the industry that forced them to pare lending and
repay overcharged interest. Promise shares have lost 35 percent
this year. Rival  Takefuji Corp.  went bankrupt in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  