-- U.K. Home Prices to Drop Next Year as Government Spending Cuts Take Effect
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-12-30T13:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/u-k-home-prices-to-drop-in-2011-on-loans-budget-survey-shows.html
U.K. home prices will fall next
year, extending a decline that began in the third quarter, as
mortgage restrictions and government spending cuts discourage
buyers, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  The median estimate of 23 banks, brokers and property
forecasters that took part in the survey was for a decline of
about 2.5 percent. Predictions ranged from a gain of 3 percent
to a drop of 10 percent.  A 12-month home price rally ended after the government
announced tax increases and the biggest budget reductions since
World War II. Next year, property values will fall most in
northeast England, Northern Ireland and parts of Scotland,
according to  David Newnes , managing director of  LSL Property
Services Plc’s  chain of residential-property brokers.  “Buyers remain tentative about the impact of government
spending cuts and the prospect of unemployment in 2011,”  Newnes  said. “There are simply too many properties coming onto
the market that are struggling to find buyers.”  Consumer confidence  sank to a four-month low in December,
research group GfK NOP said on Dec. 21. Prime Minister  David Cameron  in October set a goal of eliminating 330,000 government
jobs and more than three quarters of the record  public deficit 
by 2015.  Regional Differences  Home prices fell 2.3 percent in November from a year
earlier in northeast England, the region with the lowest average
home price, compared with a 6.8 percent increase in London,  Land
Registry  data showed today.  Property values were probably little changed in 2010 after
a second-half slide wiped out most of the gains in the first six
months, according to the survey.  “There’s going to be significant public-sector job losses
and people are just expecting the private sector to muddle
through and soak up” the unemployed, said  Ed Stansfield , an
analyst at Capital Economics Ltd. The jobless rate will rise to
3 million by 2012, the London-based research company predicts.
The total was 2.5 million at the end of October, measured by
International Labor Organization standards.  All the respondents to the survey said London will fare
best next year, with price growth of zero to five percent. They
cited the capital’s comparatively small number of government
jobs and the city’s appeal to overseas buyers.  Less Lending  Monthly mortgage approvals  have fallen to about half the
average of the past decade as banks repair balance sheets and
reduce property liabilities. Home loans will probably total 135
billion pounds ($208 billion) in 2011, unchanged from this year,
according to the Council of Mortgage Lenders. Loans totaled 300
billion pounds in 2007, the year prices reached a peak.  Net lending is likely to fall by a third to 6 billion
pounds in 2011 as record-low interest rates prompt borrowers to
repay loans, the CML said. The 2008 total was 40 billion pounds.  No more than 900,000 homes will be sold next year,
according to the CML. That compares with 1.6 million
transactions in 2007.  Low borrowing costs will limit the number of properties
coming onto the market through foreclosures and distress sales,
preventing a deeper slide in Britain’s 5.5 trillion-pound
housing market, according to participants in the survey.  The Bank of England has held its key interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009 and kept a 200
billion-pound bond-purchase program in place. The rate may be
unchanged “for the whole of next year,” the  CML  said.  Banks may show an increased willingness to lend and pass on
the low interest rates starting in the second half of 2011,
according to a report by the Centre for Economics & Business
Research for property broker Chesterton Humberts.  Next year “will be a year of two halves for U.K. house
prices,” it said. Low interest rates may push up prices in 2012
and 2013 to levels that are unsustainable in the long term, CEBR
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 