-- Hungary Risks Image at EU Helm as Orban Increases Power Over Courts, Media
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-12-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/hungary-risks-image-at-eu-helm-as-orban-increases-power-over-courts-media.html
The European Union’s  charter  calls
for respect for the rule of law, human rights, economic progress
and media freedom. Some in Brussels are wondering whether
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , whose country takes over
the rotating EU presidency on Jan. 1, has read it.  In the seven months since Orban came to power with a two-
thirds parliamentary majority, he has implemented retroactive
taxes in violation of the constitution, curbed the
Constitutional Court’s power, effectively nationalized private
pension funds and put ruling-party allies in charge of at least
four independent institutions, including the audit office.  The measures have been criticized by the Brussels-based
European Commission, the EU’s executive body, as has a media law
approved this month empowering a new council -- appointed by the
ruling party -- to fine or shut down media outlets. The
government’s moves to cut the salary of  Magyar Nemzeti Bank 
President Andras Simor and prohibit him from naming outside
members to the Monetary Council “raise concerns” about central
bank independence, the  European Central Bank  said Dec. 13.  “The government needs to act now to correct the blot on
the country’s international reputation,” Tamas Vahl, president
of the German Chamber of Commerce in Budapest, which groups such
large investors in Hungary as  Audi AG  and  Robert Bosch GmbH ,
said in a telephone interview. “Any news that makes investors
question their faith in the rule of law in  Hungary  is
dangerous.”  ‘Unstable Conditions’  More than a dozen companies wrote to the EU commission
expressing concern about “unstable conditions” for foreign
investment in Hungary after the cabinet imposed retroactive
taxes on the energy, financial, retail and telecommunication
industries, Annett Urbaczka, a spokeswoman for German utility
company  RWE AG , a signatory, said in a Dec. 27 phone interview
from RWE headquarters in Essen.  Magyar Telekom Nyrt., controlled by Deutsche Telekom AG,
another signatory, will cut dividends because of the taxes,
Chief Executive Officer Christopher Mattheisen told a conference
in Budapest on Dec. 7. “Uncertainty” about the duration of the
so-called crisis tax poses challenges to longer-term investment
decisions by management, he said.  The government says the tax is needed to meet budget
deficit targets, with the aim of reducing the shortfall to less
than 3 percent of gross domestic product next year from a
targeted 3.8 percent this year.  Ratings Downgrade  Revenue from pension-fund and industry taxes will provide
only a one-time boost,  Fitch Ratings  said on Dec. 23 as it
joined Moody’s Investors Service in downgrading Hungary’s credit
to its lowest investment rank. Fitch, Moody’s and Standard &
Poor’s all have negative outlooks on Hungary, meaning they are
more likely to cut the rating to “junk” than keep it stable.  Since Orban, 47, took office on May 28, Hungary’s credit-
default swaps, the price investors demand to insure government
debt against default, have risen more than in any other country
except Spain and  Portugal .  Lajos Kosa, deputy chairman of Orban’s Fidesz party, threw
markets in turmoil on June 3 by saying the Hungarian economy had
a “slim chance” of avoiding a Greece-like economic crisis. A day
later, Orban’s spokesman,  Peter Szijjarto , said Hungary was in a
“grave situation.”  The comments, less than a month after officials in Brussels
had assembled an EU-led rescue package for Greece worth about
$927 billion, fed concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis was
spreading and caused the forint to drop to a four-year low
against the euro.  Further Enlargement?  Hungary plans to use the six-month rotating presidency to
emphasize further EU enlargement and to focus on the issue of
the Roma, an impoverished minority group that faces
discrimination in Europe. In addition, Orban wants to strengthen
the bloc’s ability to respond to the economic malaise, according
to the country’s  EU presidency website .  The presidency, though, also puts Orban in an international
spotlight. The media law could have a “chilling, self-censoring
effect on free expression,” according to a Dec. 16  report  by
the Vienna-based  Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe .  Germany  called on Orban to “accommodate criticism”
from the OSCE, government spokesman Christoph Steegmans said on
Dec. 22.  “This could ruin Hungary’s PR during its presidency,”
Piotr Maciej Kaczynski, an analyst at the  Centre for European
Policy Studies  in Brussels, said in a phone interview. “It can
always turn nasty, but there is no reason for it to turn nasty
because there are legal mechanisms to ensure Hungary complies
with European norms.”  Voting Rights  Such mechanisms may include taking an issue to the  European
Court of Justice  or suspending a country’s voting rights. The
commission probe into whether the media law is in line with
European norms is a first step, Kaczynski said.  “You can’t in the role of the EU presidency shake
someone’s hand and turn around and tweak some of the most
fundamental rights,” Luxembourg Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn
said in a Dec. 27 phone interview. “This is about the essence
of EU values, the freedom of opinion and expression.”  Hungarian  Nepszava  news daily and weeklies Elet es Irodalom
and Magyar Narancs ran blank cover pages to protest the new
Media Council. Its five appointees, all picked by the ruling
party, Fidesz, have the power to regulate all media, including
newspapers and Internet.  “These decisions, which violate the spirit of democracy,
risk making Hungary the black sheep of the union,” Laszlo Kovacs, a former European Commissioner and member of the
opposition Socialist Party, told reporters in Budapest
yesterday.  No Power Abuse  The Media Council won’t abuse its powers and its fines will
be “proportional,” Laszlo L. Simon, a Fidesz lawmaker and head
of Parliament’s Culture and Press Committee, told MTI news
service on Dec. 28.  Orban says he won’t compromise, echoing his defiance in
July of  International Monetary Fund  recommendations to cut
spending and his days as a student leader in 1989, when he
called for the exit of Soviet troops from Hungary.  “We are not even considering” changing the media law,
Orban told HirTV in a Dec. 23 interview. “I’m not willing to
respond to parliamentary debates or Western opinion with shaky
legs.”  Orban says his policies will boost the economy, allowing
Hungary to “outgrow” its debt burden, the highest at 79
percent of GDP among the 10 central and eastern European
countries that have joined the bloc since 2004. And they will
help raise Hungary’s  employment rate , the second-lowest after
Malta at 55 percent.  Constitutional Court  The policies include the curbing of the Constitutional
Court’s powers to prevent justices from striking down industry
taxes. The court posed a “dramatic risk” to the country’s goal
of reducing the budget deficit, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
said on Nov. 5.  An ultimatum the cabinet gave to 3.3 million people with
private pension funds to move their accounts to the state budget
by the end of next month or lose their government pensions also
serves to cut the debt and the deficit, the government says.  The overhaul is denting Orban’s popularity, though his
party retains three times the backers of the biggest opposition
party. Fidesz had 33 percent of support among eligible voters in
December, down from 37 percent in November, according to a
 Szonda Ipsos  poll taken from Dec. 8-15. The Socialists had 11
percent. Results have a 2.5 percent margin of error.  “Success is the ultimate arbiter,” Orban told reporters
in Bratislava on Dec. 14. “If the country achieves its goals,
than the decisions that led to that were good ones.”  That doesn’t convince Peter Pataky, leader of the  National
Association of Hungarian Labor Unions , who says Orban is
“sweeping away” independent institutions.  “The problem is not that they have so much power,” Pataky
said. “It’s that they’re abusing their power. This is what’s
making people afraid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  