-- Turkish Parliament Approves Renewable Energy Law Guaranteeing Price Levels
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2010-12-30T14:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/turkish-parliament-approves-renewable-energy-law-guaranteeing-price-levels.html
Turkish legislation guaranteeing
prices and incentives for energy from renewable resources may
pave the way for $30 billion in wind power investments as the
country seeks to meet rising electricity demand.  Lawmakers ratified the law yesterday, deputy parliament
speaker  Nevzat Pakdil  said in Ankara. The law also included
“surprise” incentives for locally made equipment,  Zeki Eris ,
board member at the Wind Power Plants Investors Association,
said in a telephone interview.  “As much as $30 billion worth of investment will come in
to build 20,000 megawatts of wind power capacity,” Energy
Minister  Taner Yildiz  said in Ankara, compared with the current
capacity of about 1,000 megawatts. “We expect this capacity to
be built in four to five years.”  Turkey wants to encourage hydroelectric, wind and solar
generation to cut dependence on gas from Iran and Russia and
meet power demand that’s growing about 7 percent annually,
according to government forecasts. The country, which has 47,000
megawatts in total capacity, produces more than half of its
electricity from natural gas. It has also sold off power grids
to encourage investments.  The law sets guaranteed prices of 7.3 U.S. cents per
kilowatt-hour for wind and hydroelectric energy from licensed
plants, 13.3 cents for solar and biomass and 10.5 cents for
geothermal. Additional incentives for using local equipment may
add 0.4 cents to 2.4 cents to the price for five years.  “Profitability of these investments will continue to
depend on fixed costs such as turbines versus spot market power
prices for the longer term,” HSBC Bank Plc said today in a note
to clients.  Boom in Investments  Additional incentives for locally made equipment means a
guaranteed price for wind of about 9 cents a kilowatt-hour on
average, the same as Turkey’s average wholesale price in 2010,
said Eris, who’s also chief executive officer of Polat Enerji,
half-owned by France’s  EDF Energies Nouvelles SA .  “The addition of further incentives to the law text is a
great success by the government,” he said. “This will cause a
boom in all planned investments, especially in wind. The
government can easily reach its 2020 targets in wind power.”  The government’s price should decline as dependence on gas
for electricity wanes and the share of wind power increases in
national power mix, he said.  The law will also rekindle plans to manufacture wind
turbines and its components including nacelle casings, Eris
said.  General Electric Co.  may revive a plan developed before
the 2008 credit crisis to build turbines in Turkey, head of the
company’s local energy unit,  Mete Maltepe , said on Nov. 10.  “Turkey will be able to become a hub for wind power
equipment producers which can export products to North Africa,
Middle East and Balkans,” Eris said.  The law applies for 10 years to power generators completed
in 2005 to 2015. Renewable producers will also benefit from an
85 percent discount on transmission costs for 10 years. The law
limits solar investment to 600 megawatts until the end of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 