-- Venezuela Devalues Bolivar For Imported `Essential Goods,' Unifying Rates
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-12-30T20:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/venezuela-devalues-bolivar-by-scrapping-rate-for-essential-import-items.html
Venezuela devalued its currency for
the second time since January, enabling the government to
increase revenue at the risk of pushing up the world’s highest
inflation rate.  The government will weaken the exchange rate on so-called
essential goods such as food and medicine by 40 percent to 4.3
bolivars per dollar on Jan. 1, unifying its two fixed foreign
exchange rates in bid to pull the economy out of recession,
Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  said today on state television.
Imports of essential goods were previously bought at a rate of
2.6 bolivars per dollar.  The devaluation will help narrow the government’s budget
deficit by bolstering the bolivar-based value of the state oil
company’s exports, said  Orlando Ochoa , an economics professor at
Andres Bello Catholic University in Caracas. Inflation, which is
already the highest among 78 countries tracked by Bloomberg at
27 percent, may quicken further as food prices climb, he said.  “Devaluing has fiscal benefits but also hurts the
country’s economic activity,” Ochoa said. “Clearly, this
adjustment in the preferential exchange rate directly affects
inflation for 2011.”  The central government posted a deficit of 58.2 billion
bolivars, or $13.5 billion at the new exchange rate, between
January and November, according to a National treasury report.  Recession  Giordani, who has also served as planning minister under
President  Hugo Chavez , said the devaluation will help spur
economic growth after two years of recession. Ochoa said that a
pickup in inflation will “deepen the recession.”  Chavez  devalued the bolivar in January for the first time
since 2005 and created a multi-tiered exchange system in an
attempt to spur non-oil  exports  and curb the consumption of
luxury imports at subsidized exchange rates. Venezuela is the
largest oil producer in South America.  The devaluation will boost the tax revenue that state oil
company Petroleos de Venezuela SA turns over to the government
because the company had been selling some of its dollar revenue
at the 2.6 exchange rate, said  Milton Guzman , an economist at
Caracas-based consulting company Fortuny, Guzman & Asociados.
Oil accounts for about 95 percent of Venezuela’s exports,
according to the central bank.  Economic ‘Distortions’  About $18 billion of this year’s $30 billion of imports
were also purchased at the 2.6 per dollar rate, said  Juan Socias , director of Caracas-based Grupo Soluciones, a research
company that studies Venezuela’s foreign exchange commission.  “With so many exchange rates in play there has been a lot
of distortions” in the economy, said Guzman. “Now by selling
everything at 4.3, PDVSA and the government’s fiscal
contributions will improve. That will translate into a greater
flow of bolivars for the government.”  Venezuela’s oil-dependent economy contracted in 2010 for a
second consecutive year as foreign currency shortages grew and
crude production dropped, the central bank said in a report
published on its website today. Venezuela’s is the only major
Latin American economy in recession.  The economy has suffered as a Chavez-led nationalization
drive scared away private investment, Guzman said.  Gross domestic product shrank 1.9 percent this year, with
the oil industry shrinking 2.2 percent and the non-oil sector
contracting 1.8 percent, according to today’s report, which
cited preliminary figures. The economy contracted 3.3 percent in
2009.  Brokerage Crackdown  Chavez ordered a crackdown on brokerages this year and the
dismantling of an unregulated currency market they administered,
which was used by Venezuelans to obtain dollars when they
couldn’t get permission from the government to buy at the
official exchange rates.  Sitme, the exchange that replaced the unregulated or so-
called parallel market, has traded $5.04 billion to date, an
average of $36 million per day. The parallel market traded
between $80 million and $100 million a day,  Alberto Ramos , a
Latin America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York
said in June.  The devaluation, which investors had anticipated, will
provide only temporary help for the budget, said  Jaime Valdivia ,
head of emerging market research at Bluecrest Capital Management
in New York.  “This will be a temporary measure that will alleviate some
of the fiscal pressures but I don’t think this changes the
fundamental story of Venezuela, which is one of very high
inflation, high deficits and increasing debt problems,”
Valdivia said. “This doesn’t really change that much.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jose Orozco  in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  