-- Elizabeth Warren Asks Industry, Consumer Groups for Advice on Agency Head
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2010-12-30T21:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/warren-said-to-ask-industry-consumer-groups-for-consumer-unit-candidates.html
  Elizabeth Warren , the special
adviser charged with setting up the new U.S. Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection, has begun soliciting names of potential
nominees to head the agency from industry and consumer groups,
according to three people involved in the discussions.  During the discussions, which have occurred in the last few
days, Warren did not provide a short list of candidates, the
sources said. Instead, Warren and her adviser, Rajeev Date,
asked the outside groups to offer possible candidates.  Camden Fine, head of the  Independent Community Bankers of
America , said he was asked for advice. He offered thoughts on
the kind of person who should run the agency, and will provide
names later, he said.  “I suggested that the person should be even-handed, have
solid knowledge of the industry and in particular the community
banking business,” Fine said, adding that the director should
“not be a cheerleader for the industry either.”  Some groups have offered specific names, another person
involved in the discussions said.  News of the conversations was first reported by The Wall
Street Journal on its website Wednesday night.  Those involved in the calls said there was no indication
that Warren herself had been ruled out as a nominee.  The director would need to be confirmed by the Senate.
Senator  Christopher Dodd , the Connecticut Democrat who was one
of the main authors of the financial regulatory overhaul
legislation, has said Warren would have trouble getting enough
votes in the Senate for confirmation. Warren is popular with
President Barack Obama’s Democratic base but not with many
Republicans and centrist Democrats.  ‘Can’t Discount’  “You can’t discount her as a candidate either,” Fine
said. “It’s a little unclear at this point.”  Obama named Warren as an assistant to the president and
special adviser to the Treasury secretary Sept. 17 after it
became clear that Senate confirmation would be difficult.  Robert Gibbs , the White House spokesman, said in September that Warren
would be “instrumental in helping the president fill that
position,” but declined to rule her out as a potential nominee.  Gibbs also said that there was no “end date” for her role
as a presidential adviser. Warren has been involved in Obama
administration work on the crisis in foreclosures and mortgage
servicing.    Peter Jackson , a spokesman for Warren, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 