-- Wussy White House Needs Good Snowball Fight: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-12-30T02:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-30/wussy-white-house-could-use-snowball-fight-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell ’s
romp through the media following the cancellation of the
Philadelphia Eagles-Minnesota Vikings football game shows why he
is often mentioned as just the person to bring the rarefied West
Wing of the White House down to Earth.  Having trouble connecting with real people over there in
the Oval Office? Rendell’s a human switchboard -- and he’s
available starting next month, when his term as governor ends.  His latest pronouncement came on Sunday after the National
Football League’s rare postponement of a game due to a forecast
of snow. In Rendell’s world, real men live to make a touchdown
in the snow.  “This is football. Football’s played in bad weather,”
Rendell said before the storm struck his city on Sunday but
after the NFL had postponed the Sunday-night game. He predicted
the major roads would stay open throughout the storm.  In a welter of other interviews, he waxed nostalgic over
great games played under the worst conditions, from the  1967 NFL
Championship  game (the “Ice Bowl” in Green Bay) to the 2002
New England Patriots-Oakland Raiders  “Tuck Rule” game  to this
month’s match between the Patriots and the Bears in Chicago.  Rendell is one of the few unmanaged politicians left. If he
hadn’t been Philadelphia district attorney, then mayor for two
terms, then Pennsylvania governor since 2003, Rendell might well
have been a sports broadcaster. Oh, wait a minute! He is a
sportscaster, giving commentary on Comcast SportsNet following
Eagles games for years.  Snowing, Crowing  As the snow continued on Sunday, he didn’t stop at gloating
that every roadway had been “treated, plowed and passable.”
Grandmothers in Buicks could have handled the Schuylkill
Expressway. “Not one accident,” Rendell crowed.  By Monday, the NFL’s decision to postpone the Eagles-
Vikings game stood for, well, everything that ails us.  “We’ve become a nation of wusses,” Rendell declared. “The
Chinese are kicking our butt in everything. If this was in China
do you think the Chinese would have called off the game? People
would have been marching down to the stadium, they would have
walked and they would have been doing calculus on the way
down.”  Though his football remarks got the most attention in our
sports-crazed culture, the throw-away line about China provided
the legs that carried the story to “NBC Nightly News” and the
BBC. Just this month, U.S. education officials were surprised by
a report that showed students in China outperforming American
kids by a wide margin in reading, math and science.  Trophies for All  Pre-wussification, we were an economic powerhouse, and our
children were the best-educated in the world, until we decided
to sheathe our little princes and princesses in bubble wrap. We
give them graduation ceremonies for getting through nursery
school, a trophy just for showing up at soccer. We’ve removed
play from the playground to keep them from scraping a knee. We
intervene like lawyers in every dispute.  At school, where the teacher should always be right,
parents quibble over grades and behavior and prefer longer
summer vacations to a longer school year, the norm in other
countries.  In Shanghai’s schools, which topped the international test
results, neatly dressed and engaged students work long hours on
a curriculum that is creative and intellectually rich. Take no
comfort in the belief that they study to the test; that’s what
we do now, to try to get accountability into a broken system.  Americans-as-wusses was a disturbing thought to drop on a
holiday-dazed country, but Rendell is known for going rogue,
even on himself.  Conceding 2000  Despite loving sports, he isn’t always a team player. He
bucked his party’s establishment and their handpicked candidate
when he ran for governor. He happened to be on television when
the Supreme Court ruled in  Bush v. Gore  and said immediately
that Al Gore should concede the 2000 presidential election.  During the 2008 campaign, referring to the space between
Philadelphia and Pittsburgh -- known locally as Alabama --
Rendell blurted out that his state was full of “conservative
whites” who were “probably not ready to vote for an African-
American candidate.”  He became an enthusiastic supporter of that African-
American candidate,  Barack Obama , helping to deliver his swing
state. But when Obama appointed Rendell’s good friend, former
Arizona Governor  Janet Napolitano , as Homeland Security
secretary, he  delivered  this observation: “Janet’s perfect for
that job. Because for that job, you have to have no life. Janet
has no family. Perfect.”  He meant it as a compliment. Really.  Not Connecting  The criticism of Obama’s West Wing is that it is an elite,
inbred crowd -- a little wussy, perhaps -- that fails to connect
with people even when it delivers the goods, as it did in the
final days of the lame-duck Congress. Rendell, a cross between a
steelworker and a linebacker, could be a one-man corrective.  After he moves his sports memorabilia and his two golden
retrievers out of the governor’s mansion in Harrisburg, the only
job he tells friends he’s really interested in is commissioner
of Major League Baseball.  When asked on TV about whether he might fill  Rahm Emanuel ’s
shoes as White House chief of staff, Rendell’s reply is always
that the best man for the job is  Colin Powell . When Colin Powell
is asked about it, he says the perfect choice would be Ed
Rendell.  Gentlemen, let’s toss a coin and decide.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
George Bush and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Margaret Carlson  in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  