-- Citigroup sees subprime losses at Fannie, Freddie
-- 
-- Fri Jul 27, 2007 2:40pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/27/businesspro-usa-financial-fannie-freddie-idUSN2720711620070727

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Price deterioration in subprime 
mortgages has resulted in approximately $4.7 billion of 
unrealized losses for mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac, according to report published by Citigroup. 

  That is about 6 percent of the equity capital of the two 
government-sponsored enterprises.  Citigroup, in the report published on Thursday, estimates 
that the two companies' retained portfolios contain $182 
billion of subprime bonds, almost all of which are rated 
triple-A, based on public disclosure by Fannie Mae FNM.N and 
Freddie Mac FRE.N and their regulator, the Office of Federal 
Housing Enterprise Oversight.  Citigroup also said in its report the triple-A rated 
securities have significant credit enhancement that serves to 
protect the securities against losses even in extreme 
scenarios.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have exposure to over $3 
trillion in mortgages due to their guarantee portfolios and 
$1.4 trillion in their retained portfolios, but the vast 
majority of this exposure is prime mortgages, Citigroup said.  Citigroup said delinquencies in Fannie Mae's and Freddie 
Mac's guarantee portfolios have not increased so far this year, 
supporting the two GSEs' assertion that their portfolios are 
predominantly prime mortgage portfolios.  "Given the long investment horizons and stable funding 
sources available to Fannie and Freddie, there is little reason 
to expect that they will realize these losses in the near 
term," Citigroup said.  On a held-to-maturity basis, the only write-down would 
occur from permanent impairment as a result of realized credit 
losses, the company said.  Citigroup said it expects these impairment-related losses 
to be considerably smaller than its topline estimate of $4.7 
billion in mark-to-market losses.  "As to the market prices of these AAA holdings, we have not 
seen any material markdown of value," said Freddie Mac 
spokesman Michael Cosgrove.  "We possess current data on the valuations of these assets 
based on independent price quotations obtained from third party 
sources, such as pricing services and dealer marks," he said.  Officials of Fannie Mae were not immediately available for 
comment.  Fannie Mae on Friday said none of the subprime 
mortgage-backed bonds it holds has been cut from top-tier 
credit ratings.  Fannie Mae said its non-agency securities totaled $122.8 
billion at the end of the second quarter, which included $47.2 
billion backed by subprime loans. The overwhelming amount of 
those loans, at $46.9 billion, were rated triple-A or the 
equivalent by at least two nationally recognized rating 
organizations, the company said in its June monthly summary.  None of the $47.2 billion subprime mortgage-backed 
securities has been downgraded, Fannie Mae said.  GSE credit default spreads have been widening recently, 
with some pointing to fears over Fannie Mae's and Freddie mac's 
subprime holdings as the reason. Others say the widening is due 
to concerns that Fannie and Freddie may build their portfolios 
given the weakness in the market.  Citigroup said the widening of GSE credit default spreads 
is overdone and recommends that investors sell protection on 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac senior debt.  Fannie Mae shares on Friday were down 1.62 dollar, or 2.67 
percent, at $59.98 on the New York Stock Exchange.  Freddie Mac shares on Friday were down 0.99 cents, or 1.67 
percent, at $58.40 on the New York Stock Exchange.