-- Microsoft CEO defends move beyond desktop
-- By  Daisuke Wakabayashi
-- Thu Jul 26, 2007 8:54pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/27/businesspro-microsoft-meeting-dc-idUSN2533004120070727

 

 REDMOND, Washington  (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp. ( MSFT.O ) 
Chief Executive Steve Ballmer defended the software company's 
expansion beyond its Windows and office software businesses, 
saying Web services and consumer devices are key to the 
company's future. 

  Speaking on Thursday at an annual meeting with financial 
analysts, Ballmer acknowledged he had been "hammered" by 
investors who argued Microsoft should focus on its core desktop 
and server software business and forget businesses like digital 
music players and video games.  Microsoft aims to make software that integrates the best 
features of desktop software, higher-end corporate software, 
Web services and devices, and it needs to be in all of those 
areas to keep up with the pace of innovation, Ballmer said.  "Great things don't happen overnight," he said. "Most 
successes require long-term investment and innovation ... and 
that's our perspective."  Ballmer said he is more "optimistic" now than at any point 
in the company's history and sees more opportunities for growth 
in the next 10 years than in the past 30 years.  Microsoft's expansion into new businesses has not always 
been smooth. Ballmer said the $1.06 billion charge the company 
took to fix problems with the Xbox game console was "painful," 
teaching it a lesson about hardware design.  Microsoft has been under pressure from investors in the 
face of faster-growing rivals, especially Google Inc.( GOOG.O ), 
and analysts noted that the company on Thursday was setting out 
a road map rather than basking in the profits of its 
established franchises.  "The focus of the message today seemed to be about where 
this company is going for the next few years," Bernstein 
Research analyst Charles Di Bona said.  Chief Software Architect Ray Ozzie, who spearheads 
Microsoft's push into Web services, argued that leading-edge 
technologies began with consumers. Microsoft's access to 
consumers gave it a leg up over rivals focused on serving 
corporations and large organizations, he said.  Microsoft can also drive growth through its 
bread-and-butter software products like the Windows operating 
system and Office productivity software, Ballmer said.  Those products, which account for almost all of the 
company's profit, support Microsoft's newer initiatives like 
online advertising, its Zune music player, software for mobile 
phones and online service.  Microsoft said it sold 60 million Windows Vista licenses as 
of the end of June, including 20 million copies sold since 
mid-May. Windows Vista, the latest version of its dominant 
Windows operating system, was released on January 30.
  EMBRACE DISRUPTION  Ballmer said the company plans to embrace "disruptive 
technologies" like Web-based applications that threaten 
Microsoft's traditional desktop software, which runs locally on 
a computer hard drive.  "Every piece of software -- the basic core value in the way 
software gets created -- will change in the next three, five or 
10 years," said Ballmer, adding that future software will all 
factor in some aspect of desktop, Web and server elements.  However, he rejected the idea that the software industry 
would shift entirely to an Internet delivery model.  Microsoft also said it is committed to building an 
advertising powerhouse to compete with Google and Yahoo Inc.  ( YHOO.O )  The company announced the acquisition of AdECN, a market 
for buyers and sellers of Web advertising. AdECN functions like 
a stock exchange for advertisers and publishers to buy and sell 
display advertising online.  The acquisition comes on the heels of Microsoft's plan to 
purchase Web advertising firm aQuantive Inc. AQNT.O for $6 
billion earlier this year. Microsoft said the aQuantive deal 
cleared regulatory hurdles and will close in mid-August.  Kevin Johnson, president of Microsoft's platforms and 
services division, said the company's online services group 
will undergo another year of investment in this fiscal year, 
suggesting that the loss-making division will not turn a profit 
in fiscal 2008.  (Additional reporting by  Eric Auchard  in San Francisco)