-- Hidden U.S. subprime losses may mirror Japan bank crisis
-- By  Walden Siew
-- Fri Jul 27, 2007 4:51pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/27/businesspro-usa-credit-loss-japan-dc-idUSN2760231420070727

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Investors and banks holding on to U.S. 
subprime mortgage bonds in hopes of a recovery in value may 
make losses worse, mirroring the Japanese banking crisis in the 
1990s, according to authors of a new report. 

  The Japanese banking crisis, triggered in the early 1990s 
by a slumping property market and brokerage collapses, led to a 
decade-long credit crunch. The government subsequently had to 
step in to stabilize the banking system by injecting public 
money into top banks.  "The Japanese experience of holding large losses as opposed 
to taking a hit and moving on was a direct cause of the 
Japanese malaise," said Josh Rosner, co-author of the report 
and a managing director at Graham Fisher, an investment 
research firm in New York.  The new report, "Financial Services Exposures to Subprime," 
said "there are many institutions with significant levels of 
embedded losses that have not yet been recognized as a result 
of questionable valuations."  Today, only a few banks and brokerages have recognized 
losses on U.S. subprime mortgage bets, as the housing market 
has weakened. Bear Stearns Cos BSC.N has publicly recorded 
losses from its hedge fund bets on subprime mortgage bonds held 
in collaterized debt obligations. Outside the U.S., four hedge 
funds, two in Britain and two in Australia, have said they 
suffered losses.  More investors are hiding losses that may only get worse, 
the report said. Growing concern about the deteriorating U.S. 
housing market may hurt corporate buyouts, debt financing and 
stock markets. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index lost $300 
billion in value this week on concern about credit markets.  Today's investors and financial institutions are now 
"playing a dangerous game," Rosner said on Friday. "The losses 
will almost certainly be larger than they are today."  As more rating downgrades come, values will continue to 
fall and margin calls will increase, the report said.  Standard & Poor's cut ratings on $6.4 billion in debt this 
month and Moody's Investors Service slashed $5.2 billion worth. 
S&P on Thursday cut various residential mortgage-backed 
securities to junk, including one class of bonds whose ratings 
were out of synch by 12 levels.  S&P lowered its grade from "AA," S&P's third best rating, 
to "B," or five levels into junk status.  Bear Stearns also on Thursday seized control of most assets 
in a troubled hedge fund, after declines in the value of 
riskier, subprime home loans caused the fund's value to plummet 
to almost nothing.  Bear Stearns said it "assumed possession of the assets" 
securing a $1.3 billion credit facility provided to its 
High-Grade Structured Credit Strategies Fund after the fund was 
unable to meet a margin call.  Joseph Mason, co-author of the report, said the drying up 
of capital for investors and banks that rely on that financing 
to fund leveraged buyouts may begin to weigh on growth.  "I'm not saying it will cause a recession, but we could 
have a low economic growth environment," Mason said.  Rosner and Mason also compared the current subprime crisis 
to the U.S. savings and loans crisis in the 1980s, when waves 
of S&L failures led to a federal bailout.  In the Japanese case, the bursting of the asset bubble in 
the real estate and stock markets led to a deteriorating 
economy. Japanese banks were saddled with massive 
non-performing loans, raising concerns about a systemic 
meltdown.