-- `Creeping Rally' Is Driving Australian Stocks Higher: Technical Analysis
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-29T02:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/-creeping-rally-is-driving-australian-stocks-higher-technical-analysis.html
Australia’s key stock index may rise
3.5 percent by year-end after having crossed a key resistance
level with increasing momentum in the past two months, according
to an analysis of chart patterns by Bell Direct.  The  S&P/ASX 200 Index  will probably climb to 4,850 from
yesterday’s close of 4,684.90 if U.S. Federal Reserve asset
purchases to spur growth in the world’s largest economy meet
market expectations, said  Julia Lee , an equities analyst.  The index has climbed above its May 13 closing level of
4,652.80 seven times since September and risen higher each time,
a key signal for future gains, Lee said yesterday by telephone.  “We’re seeing a creeping rally, an upward trend of higher-
highs and higher-lows through the 4,652.80 level over the last
couple of months,” Lee said in the interview. “If we were to
see Federal Reserve quantitative-easing measures worth $500
billion or more, it would support a rally to as high as 4,850 by
year-end. If the amount is less, the chances are of a
significant pullback.”  The  S&P/ASX 200  tumbled 16 percent from this year’s closing
high on April 15 to its low on July 5 on concern slowing U.S.
economic growth, China’s steps to curb property-price inflation,
and a European government-debt crisis will choke a global
recovery. The index has since risen 11 percent on signs U.S.
growth is regaining traction and on speculation that the Fed is
committed to a second round of stimulus measures.  Fed policy makers meet Nov. 2-3 to consider steps to boost
an economy growing too slowly to reduce unemployment near a 26-
year high. Financial-market participants are focusing on the
size, timing and maturities of likely Fed asset purchases aimed
at lowering long-term rates, with estimates reaching $1 trillion
or more.  William Dudley , president of the New York Fed and vice
chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee, has set
expectations of about $500 billion in initial buying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 