-- `Must Have' Hedge Funds Get Fifth of New Cash
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2010-10-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/-must-have-hedge-funds-attract-fifth-of-new-cash-for-och-o-shea-singer.html
Och-Ziff Capital Management Group
LLC , Elliott Management Corp. and Comac Capital LLP pulled in
almost a fifth of the money going into the $1.7 trillion hedge-
fund industry this year, showing how selective the richest
investors have become when allocating assets.  The three funds, which have combined assets of about $49
billion, together attracted $7.6 billion in net new money,
according to investors, who asked not to be named because the
funds are private. Investors poured $42.3 billion into hedge
funds overall in the first nine months of 2010, about 2 percent
of total assets, data from Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research
Inc. show.  While this is the first year that hedge funds have
experienced net deposits since 2007, the amount of money raised
as a share of assets is the lowest since 1998, when new capital
from investors accounted for 1 percent. Some of the best-known
managers, among them Paulson & Co. and D.E. Shaw & Co., have
seen net redemptions. The number of startup funds has declined
by a quarter, as investors shun managers without a track record.  “The universe of funds that has raised capital is very
small,” said  Steve Keller , head of financing sales for the
Americas at Bank of America Corp. “The market environment is
incredibly choppy, and until investors have a better sense of
clarity around key issues like the elections, currencies and
financial regulation, few will likely be rushing into the
market.”  Popular Strategies  About 75 percent of the $19 billion of net deposits in the
industry in the third quarter went to managers overseeing $5
billion or more, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research
Inc.  Och-Ziff , the $26 billion firm run by  Dan Och , 49, has
pulled in a net $2.7 billion, making the New York-based firm one
of the most successful money-raisers so far in 2010, according
to investors. London-based Comac, with $6 billion, has attracted
about $2.5 billion, and New York-based Elliott, with more than
$17 billion in assets, has raised about $2.4 billion.  Executives from the firms declined to comment on the
fundraising.  The three firms have been helped by the popularity of their
strategies. Both Och-Ziff and Elliott are multistrategy funds,
and Comac is a macro fund. The two groups, along with event-
driven funds, are among the most popular for investors this
year, according to Hedge Fund Research.  Money Magnets  Macro-fund managers seek to profit from broad economic
trends by trading everything from bonds to commodities, while
event-driven funds seek to capitalize on company events such as
mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies. These strategies allow
managers to invest in a wide array of markets and securities,
and clients are betting that flexibility will increase traders’
likelihood of making money at a time when stock prices have been
volatile and interest rates globally are low.  In the first four months of the year, stocks, as measured
by the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , climbed 6.4 percent. In the
following four months, they dropped 12 percent, and since the
end of August, they’ve climbed 13 percent. Interest rates on 10-
year government bonds in the U.S. and Europe are under 3 percent
and in Japan are less than 1 percent.  For a fund to attract money in this environment, past
returns must be strong, and the firm needs to be big enough to
absorb large investments from institutions, said  Brad Balter ,
who runs Balter Capital Management LLC in Boston.  Singer’s Track Record  The Comac Global Macro Fund, run by  Colm O’Shea , 40, gained
3 percent this year through September. Macro funds, on average,
climbed  3.5 percent , according to Hedge Fund Research. In 2008,
when macro funds gained 4.8 percent on average, it climbed
almost 31 percent.  Other funds attract money because of their longevity and
strong returns. Elliott, founded by  Paul Singer , 66, in 1977,
boasts one of the longest track records in the industry, with an
average annual return of around 14.5 percent. The inflows this
year are commitments from clients, and not all of the $2.4
billion has been called yet, the investors said.  Och-Ziff has attracted new money even as it underperformed
peers. The OZ Master Fund has returned 4.2 percent this year,
while multistrategy funds jumped 9.6 percent, on average,
through September, according to Hedge Fund Research. Och-Ziff
didn’t block redemptions from its funds in 2008, when many other
firms limited withdrawals.  Managers that treat their investors well, including a
willingness to cut fees for large allocations, tend to be
popular, Balter said. On top of that, he said, there are a few
must-have funds every year that everyone seems to add to their
portfolios.  ‘Money Begets Money’  “Money begets money,” said Balter, who farms out money to
hedge funds. “If an investor sees other large investors
flocking to a fund, then the perception is that his decision to
invest is validated.”  Highbridge Capital Management, the New York-based firm
owned by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , raised about $1.5 billion this
year for its hedge funds, which include a multistrategy fund and
four smaller single-strategy funds, according to investors.
Together, its hedge funds manage about $11 billion.  While institutions tend to put money with the largest
managers, some of the biggest funds haven’t been able to attract
capital this year.  Assets at New York-based D.E. Shaw have tumbled by 46
percent to $21 billion from their 2008 peak, as investors,
angered by the firm’s decision to limit withdrawals in 2008,
exited.  Paulson’s Withdrawals  Paulson & Co., the $32 billion New York-based firm run by
 John Paulson , has had moderate redemptions this year because of
losses in its flagship fund, according to an investor who asked
not to be named because the information is private. Paulson’s
Advantage Plus Fund had fallen 11 percent through August before
recouping the loss in September.  SAC Capital Advisors LP, the $12 billion firm run by  Steven Cohen , attracted a net $500 million this year, according to
investors, compared with $1.3 billion in the last six months of
2009. Hedge-fund investors said the drop-off in new assets this
year may be because clients are putting less money into equity
funds, and are steering away from firms with higher-than-normal
fees.  SAC, based in Stamford, Connecticut, charges 3 percent of
assets and as much as 50 percent of profits. Most managers
demand 2 percent and 20 percent. SAC’s flagship fund returned
about 9 percent through September, investors said.  Other hedge-fund firms have closed to new investments to
preserve their ability to produce returns, including London-
based Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP. The company isn’t
taking any more money for its Brevan Howard Master Fund, which
now has about $25 billion in assets.  Dalio Closes  Bridgewater Associates Inc., the Westport, Connecticut-
based firm run by  Ray Dalio , closed its flagship Pure Alpha Fund
II, a macro fund with $35 billion in assets that has climbed
about 38 percent so far this year.  Some smaller funds have bulked up. The $6.6 billion Caxton
Global Investment Ltd., run by  Andrew Law , has pulled in a net
$700 million this year as the fund climbed 8.5 percent through
Oct. 20, according to investors.  Dan Loeb ’s $3.7 billion Third Point LLC pulled in a net
$760 million for its flagship event-driven fund, investors said.
The fund has climbed more than 21 percent this year. Dallas-
based Carlson Capital LP, run by  Clint Carlson , raised a net
$500 million for its $5.7 billion multistrategy fund, which has
jumped 8 percent this year.  Topping Up  Overall, most allocations are coming from current investors
who are topping up their holdings as they seek to concentrate
their portfolios, according to a monthly report on the hedge-
fund industry published by  Credit Suisse Group AG .  That makes it difficult for startups. Hedge-fund launches
have declined to 340 from 453 in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Smaller hedge funds have put off launching until the
environment improves,” said  Don Steinbrugge , managing partner
of Agecroft Partners LLC, a Richmond, Virginia-based consulting
firm that advises hedge funds and investors. “The environment
to raise money for launches is very difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  