-- Pope to Bind Vatican to Money-Laundering Law, EU Says
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-10-29T11:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/-papal-act-set-to-commit-the-vatican-to-money-laundering-laws-eu-says.html
Pope Benedict XVI  will bind the
Vatican to implementing European Union laws against money
laundering and financial fraud, the European Commission said,
after the Holy See’s bank was tainted by a series of scandals.  The Vatican is “fully committed” to putting relevant EU
legislation into effect by the end of 2010, as stipulated by a
 monetary accord  the Vatican signed with the commission Dec. 17
last year,  Amadeu Altafaj , spokesman for EU Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn , said in an interview in Brussels.  A joint EU-Vatican committee, set up under the agreement,
“discussed in detail” a draft Vatican law “approximating”
the EU rules at an Oct. 15 meeting,  Altafaj  said. By an “act of
the pope,” the law will become applicable to “the institutions
of the Holy See, including the Institute for Religious Works,”
as the Vatican Bank is called, Altafaj said Oct. 26. The
information was confirmed today by a high-ranking Vatican
official, who declined to be identified, citing Vatican policy.  After scandals that included IOR involvement in the
fraudulent bankruptcy of Banco Ambrosiano in 1982, the Vatican
is seeking to embrace financial openness after a push by the
Group of 20 nations for greater transparency in the wake of the
economic crisis. The Vatican’s efforts came under scrutiny last
month when Italian prosecutors seized 23 million euros ($32
million) from a Rome bank account registered to the IOR and
opened an investigation into the Vatican Bank and its top two
executives for alleged violations of money-laundering laws.  ‘Offshore Bank’  Altafaj’s comments come after Italian media, including the
newspaper  Libero , had said the Vatican may not respect the Dec.
31 deadline to implement the EU legislation. Not complying with
the deadline could nullify the monetary accord with the
commission and lead to action by the European Court of Justice.
The accord also sets rules for the Vatican, which uses the
European single currency, on the issuance of euro coins.  “The IOR has long acted as an offshore bank mostly for
Italian businessmen and politicians close to the Roman Curia,”
the Vatican’s governing body, Gianluigi Nuzzi, author of
 Vaticano SpA  (Vatican Inc.), a book about the IOR, said by phone
before Altafaj’s remarks. “Maybe that’s starting to change.”  The Vatican agreed on Oct. 15 to set up a special authority
as of Jan. 1 to implement the new financial legislation “with
the right to control the institutions of both the Vatican and
the Holy See,” Altafaj said. The Vatican is a sovereign city-
state outside EU jurisdiction, though surrounded by Italian
territory. The Holy See refers to the institutions, many located
within Vatican City, that manage the Roman Catholic Church’s
global affairs.  ‘Clear Improvement’  The new authority will be “the contact point” for the EU
and international organizations “active” in combating money
laundering, such as the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force.
“This shows a strong level of commitment by the Vatican in
implementing the legislation,” Altafaj said. “It’s a clear
improvement from the current situation.”  The authority’s head is likely to be Cardinal  Attilio Nicora , who will become a sort of “central banker of the
Vatican,”  Corriere della Sera  reported on Oct. 26, citing no
one. Nicora currently oversees the Administration of the
Patrimony of the Holy See, which manages financial assets and
real estate belonging to the Holy See. He was recently named to
lead efforts to bring the Vatican in line with EU financial
legislation, the Vatican’s Osservatore Romano newspaper  said on
Sept. 23 .  ‘Judas’  In May,  Nicora  was asked in an interview on state-run RAI3
television about cases of alleged corruption involving Italian
businessmen and Catholic Church officials. “The community of
the apostles also picked the wrong administrator, whose name was
Judas,” he said, referring to the man whose betrayal led to
Christ’s crucifixion.  Rome prosecutors last month opened a probe into whether the
Vatican Bank violated money-laundering laws by omitting
information in wire-transfer requests from an IOR account at
 Credito Artigiano SpA . The case stems from a misunderstanding
with the Italian bank, the Vatican said on Sept. 21. Chairman
 Ettore Gotti Tedeschi , who joined the IOR last year, and
Director General Paolo Cipriani are also being probed. The
Vatican has said it has “full confidence” in them.  Under Gotti Tedeschi, 65, who also teaches ethics in
finance at Milan’s Catholic University, the Holy See has sought
to improve the IOR’s image after scandals that included the $1.3
billion collapse of partly Vatican-owned Banco Ambrosiano, once
Italy’s largest private bank. Its former Chairman  Roberto Calvi ,
dubbed “God’s banker,” was found hanged under London’s
Blackfriars Bridge in June 1982.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 