-- African Malaria May Ease as Remote Areas Accessed, Emanuel Says
-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 2010-10-29T10:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/african-malaria-cases-may-fall-as-remote-areas-are-accessed-emanuel-says.html
Global efforts to control malaria,
the most deadly infectious disease in Africa, may cut prevalence
rates to one in 20 fevers by 2017, said Zeke Emanuel, special
health adviser to U.S. President  Barack Obama .  The mosquito borne-disease, which slows Africa’s economic
growth by 1.3 percentage points and kills 900,000 people a year,
according to the World Health Organization, is the cause of
nearly half of all clinically reported fevers on the continent.  Cases of malaria may decline as bed nets, rapid-test kits
and health workers reach Africa’s more remote areas, Emanuel
said in an interview in Dakar, the  Senegalese  capital.  “It’s not going to be a has-been disease, but by 2017 we
are going to have within our sight getting it down to 5 percent
of what it was,” he said on Oct. 23.  One-third of the world’s 108 countries where malaria is
endemic, including nine African nations, reduced cases of
malaria by at least 50 percent over the past decade, according
to the WHO. In Senegal, where Emanuel toured villages and met
with the country’s health minister last weekend, malaria deaths
have fallen by about 70 percent since 2006, he said.  To replicate those results in more countries such as
 Nigeria  and the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Obama
administration is proposing a $250 million increase in anti-
malarial aid to $750 million annually for the fiscal 2011
budget, said Emanuel, who is the brother of former White House
Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel .  Budget Commitments  “It’s certainly within the realm of possible, but the
difficulty is to sustain those kinds of low levels over time,”
Stephen Morrison, director of the non-profit Global Health
Policy Center, said in a separate interview. “The places that
are going to be able to hold their gains are the places that are
building their own capacity and making commitments on the
budget.”  Obama is proposing an increase from $6.8 billion to $7.5
billion in funds for the  U.S. Global Health Initiative , which
seeks to help countries improve their health systems.  Globally, international health aid is increasing at a
slower pace than it did prior to the 2008 global economic
crisis, Morrison said, although the 2011 budget marks a
“significant bump up of support,” he said.  “The tone you see in the administration’s statements is one
of greater discipline and selectivity and greater emphasis on
efficiency and partner governance performance,” Morrison said.  River Blindness  The White House also aims to eliminate onchocerciasis, or
river blindness, and lymphatic filariasis, or elephantiasis, by
2017. Together, the two parasitic diseases, endemic to tropical
areas, affect 138 million people worldwide. Onchocerciasis ranks
as the second-leading cause of blindness, according to the WHO.  Obama’s budget proposes an increase in health aid to fight
neglected tropical diseases to $100 million, more than twice the
$45 million the previous administration committed between 2003
and 2008, Emanuel said.  Combined with global efforts, the U.S. campaign may see as
much as half of Africa’s at-risk population tested for the 15
diseases the WHO lists as neglected tropical diseases, he said.  “These are diseases that have not received much attention
because they are not common, they are not killing people so much
as disabling them, but they are having a huge economic impact,
without any doubt,” WHO spokesman Francesco Rio said.  Next month, the administration will begin authoring a
strategy to support the distribution of a microbicide-based
product that could reverse the spread of HIV, Emanuel said.  Trials  A series of pharmaceutical trials, whose results are
expected around 2013, are researching whether chemical compounds
applied as gels to genitalia before sex may prevent the
transmission of HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.  If confirmed, the product would be integrated as part of
the White House’s HIV prevention program that aims to stem the
rising numbers of new infections by 2017.  “This is good news,” said Director  Mark Wainberg  at the
McGill University AIDS Center, who expects the trials to be
confirmed.  “We’re never going to end the AIDS epidemic through
these kinds of approaches, but this could be an important step
that could limit the spread of HIV in a major way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Hinshaw  in Dakar via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 