-- AIA Rises on First Day in Hong Kong After City's Biggest IPO
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   D a r r e n   B o e y
-- 2010-10-29T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/aia-debut-propels-hong-kong-stock-trading-to-second-highest-level-of-2010.html
AIA Group Ltd.’s initial public
offering, the biggest in Hong Kong’s history, propelled stock
trading in the city to the second-busiest day of the year.  AIA shares worth HK$49.39 billion ($6.4 billion) traded
yesterday, a record for a new listing on its debut in Hong Kong,
according to  data  compiled by Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.
A total of HK$136.39 billion shares changed hands on the bourse,
more than double the average daily volume of HK$63 billion in
the first nine months of the year, the exchange said.  Eight of the year’s ten most-active days were in October as
companies from Boer Power Holdings Ltd. and Mongolian Mining
Corp. sold shares for the first time, the exchange data showed.
The heaviest trading day this year was Oct. 14, when HK$139.07
billion of shares changed hands as the  Hang Seng Index  climbed
to its highest close since June 2008.  “On any day when you have an IPO, volumes go up to
reflect that extra trading,” said  Andrew Sullivan , a director of
institutional sales trading at OSK Securities Hong Kong Ltd.
“AIA is a big deal, one of the biggest IPOs ever.”  AIA , the insurer sold by American International Group Inc.,
surged 17 percent in its first day of trading in Hong Kong
yesterday. The company said after the city’s stock market closed
that the over-allotment option of the IPO was exercised in full,
boosting the amount of funds raised to $20.5 billion.  The depreciation of the Hong Kong dollar has made assets in
the city cheaper, luring foreign investors to equities, Sullivan
said. The  Hang Seng Index  rose 3.3 percent this month, its
second monthly advance.  The currency is tied to the U.S. dollar, which sank to a
15-year low versus the yen on Oct. 25 and to a more than eight-
month low against the  euro  on Oct. 15. The Hong Kong government
has kept the city’s dollar at about HK$7.80 versus the greenback
since 1983. Regulators have allowed the currency to trade up to
five cents either side of that level since 2005.  “The weakening U.S. dollar makes Hong Kong much more
attractive,” Sullivan said. “Things become relatively cheap in
Hong Kong because the currency’s fixed to the U.S. dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  