-- AIDS Looms, Roy Cohn Dies as ‘Angels’ Triumphs: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/aids-looms-roy-cohn-dies-as-angels-triumphs-jeremy-gerard.html
Nothing grabs your attention like an
angel in full feather crashing through the bedroom ceiling in
the middle of the night.  Especially when said angel announces, “Greetings, Prophet!
The great work begins: The Messenger has arrived.”  That grand declaration concludes a revival of  Tony Kushner ’s  Pulitzer Prize -winning “Millennium Approaches,”
leaving us every bit as stunned as Prior Walter, the young man
gaping in horror from his sickbed in Manhattan, where he is
suffering from a mysterious cancer.  “Perestroika,” the second part of Kushner’s monumental,
seven-hour epic “Angels in America,” continues the story of
interwoven couples in Ronald Reagan’s happy-go-lucky 1980s, when
AIDS began killing gay men.  Along the way, we visit Salt Lake City, heaven and
Antarctica. We spend time with the ghost of Ethel Rosenberg, the
World’s Oldest Bolshevik, a mischievous travel agent named Mr.
Lies, and Roy Cohn, the furtively gay lawyer who helped send
Ethel to the electric chair and is himself dying of AIDS.  “Angels” was staged on Broadway in 1993. How does it hold
up? Sensationally well.  The  Signature Theatre  production, staged with a sympathetic
but uneven hand by Michael Greif, showcases some of the best
talent around, including Zoe Kazan, Christian Borle, Billy
Porter and  Frank Wood  in a career-topping performance as the
sneering, foul-mouthed, inexhaustibly mendacious Cohn.  Scarlet Lesion  The heart and soul of “Angels” is Prior Walter (Borle),
last in a centuries-old line of Priors. In the heartbreaking
opening scene of “Millennium Approaches,” he shows his lover,
Louis Ironson ( Zachary Quinto ) a scarlet lesion on his arm, the
first telltale sign that he has Kaposi’s sarcoma, an AIDS-
related cancer.  All of this unfolds in the years before AZT and, later, a
drug “cocktail” made an AIDS diagnosis something less than a
death sentence. Kushner draws an unsettling but deeply
compelling parallel between contracting the disease and voting
Republican. I’m not kidding, and neither is he.  To his enduring shame, Louis abandons Walter and embarks on
an affair with Joe Pitt (Bill Heck), a closeted Mormon lawyer,
protege of Cohn and clerk for a reactionary judge. Joe is
married to Harper (Kazan), who is rattled by his inattention and
addled by Valium.  Harper tends to spin off into fantasy vacations, shepherded
by Mr. Lies, the ectoplasmic travel agent played by Porter. His
main role, in a company whose cast members play multiple parts,
is Belize, the activist nurse who cares for Prior and Cohn, when
he arrives, fuming, in the hospital.  Mormon Mom  Cohn, desperate to thwart a disbarment proceeding before he
himself succumbs to AIDS, urges the conflicted Joe to take a job
at the Justice Department in Washington, where he can be useful.  The plays are populated with angels and ghosts, among them
Prior’s fictional ancestors and the “Continental
Principalities” -- angels representing the seven continents.
Such a motley of characters, some real, some imagined, only
hints at the scope of Kushner’s achievement. Combining brutal
realism, wicked satire and a palpably humane regard for these
disparate characters, “Angels” breaks all the rules to achieve
the astonishing integrity of its vision.  In addition to Wood -- who stakes a strong claim on a part
owned by Ron Leibman in the original New York production --there
is exceptional work from Kazan, who wrenchingly underscores
Harper’s child/woman sides, and Porter, shifting seamlessly
between the coaxing Mr. Lies and the combative yet compassionate
Belize.  The weak link in the chain is Robin Bartlett, who doesn’t
quite capture Hannah’s no-nonsense comic urgency. Hannah sells
her Salt Lake City home and journeys to New York, where she
becomes Prior’s unlikely ally, though not before a classic
encounter with an insane street person. Bartlett also fails to
find the right pacing in brief but key male roles of an Orthodox
rabbi and the Bolshevik.  Too Much Scenery  On Broadway, director  George C. Wolfe  staged the plays
simply yet fleetly on  Robin Wagner ’s sleek sets. Here, Mark
Wendland’s scenery works too hard to suggest locations ranging
from a crummy apartment to an East Side mansion to the South
Pole.  Yet these are quibbles for a play that has remained utterly
of-the-moment. Kushner wrote the anodyne for the bottom-feeding,
greed-worshipping “Wall Street,” and now his play functions
similarly as that film’s sequel runs in theaters.  “I don’t understand why I’m not dead,” Harper tells Joe.
“When your heart breaks, you should die.”  Heartbreaking as it can be, “Angels in America” is
definitively about life, not death.  “We are not going away,” Prior says in his memorable coda
to “Perestroika.” “We won’t die secret deaths anymore. The
world only spins forward.”  At 555 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-244-7529;
 http://www.signaturetheatre.org  Rating: ****  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 