-- Bachus May Be Wall Street’s New Overseer in Congress
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2010-10-29T15:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/alabama-s-bachus-may-be-wall-street-s-new-overseer-in-congress.html
Two years after his party’s leaders
stripped much of his power as the top Republican on the House
Financial Services Committee, Representative  Spencer Bachus  is
within reach of taking the chairmanship from Democrat  Barney Frank  during the biggest regulatory overhaul since the 1930s.  Bachus, of Alabama, has turned away several challengers and
is likely to replace the Massachusetts lawmaker if Republicans
gain at least 39 House seats in the Nov. 2 elections and assume
control of the chamber, according to Republican committee
members and two Republican aides.  During Frank’s tenure, Congress approved the most sweeping
financial legislation in decades, giving the federal government
power to seize mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, spend
$700 billion on a bank bailout and rewrite Washington’s rules
for Wall Street. Republicans said that if they take power, the
financial industry can expect the panel to influence how new
regulations are implemented and enforced.  “You’re going to see a more methodical approach -- ‘Let’s
have more hearings, let’s slow the process down a little bit,’”
Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican and deputy
ranking member of the committee, said in an interview.  Talk from Republican leaders such as Minority Leader  John Boehner  that Congress might try to repeal part or all of the
Dodd-Frank regulatory law will likely run up against the reality
of divided government. Even if the Republicans win control of
the Senate, which polls suggest is unlikely, the president would
still hold veto power over Congress.  ‘Art of the Doable’  “Regardless of who is in the majority,  Barack Obama  is
still going to be president, so we’re going to have to look at
the art of the doable,” said Representative  Jeb Hensarling , 53,
of Texas, a senior Republican on the panel.  There will be change in the Senate even if the Democrats
retain control. Senator  Christopher Dodd , the banking committee
chairman who worked with Frank to shepherd the regulatory
overhaul law, is retiring. Senator  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota
Democrat, would take his place if his party holds a majority. If
Republicans win, Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama is in line.  Each of the members has had success raising funds from the
financial industry. Frank, 70, has pulled in $956,600 in the
current election cycle from individuals and political action
committees aligned with finance, insurance and real-estate
companies, according to the Center for Responsive Politics,
while Bachus collected $655,600. Dodd, 66, who announced his
retirement in January, banked $2.8 million from the industries
and his counterpart Shelby pulled in $2.1 million. Johnson, who
isn’t running for re-election until 2014, raised $1.6 million.  Bachus Stumble  For Bachus, 62, an ascent to chairman would mark a comeback
from a political stumble in the fall of 2008. As the senior
Republican on the financial services committee, he was expected
to lead his party’s negotiations on the $700 billion bailout
that became known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Instead,
Republican leaders lost confidence and removed him from that
role.  Then he earned the ire of some party members when he
changed his position on the bailout, attacking it in a private
meeting and then voting for it, according to two Republican
aides who were at the meeting.  Republican leaders later forced Bachus to distribute much
of the committee’s portfolio to other party members.  Boehner’s Bidding  During the debate on the financial overhaul, the Republican
opposition to Frank was led by Bachus’s deputies, including
Hensarling, Neugebauer,  Scott Garrett  of New Jersey,  Judy Biggert  of Illinois and  Shelley Moore Capito  of West Virginia.
During the conference committee, the final stage of the debate,
at the bidding of Ohio’s Boehner, Republicans crafted a strategy
in which they offered amendments to force Democrats into
difficult votes instead of trying to reshape the legislation,
according to a Republican lawmaker and two aides.  The member and Republican aides declined to be identified
because the talks were private. Through a spokeswoman, Marisol
Garibay, Bachus declined to comment for this story.  Neugebauer attributed the Republican leadership structure
on the committee during the past two years to “a very deep
bench,” and panel members said they would stick with the setup
if they take control.  “I expect that Spencer Bachus will be our next chairman,”
said Hensarling. “It’s a testament to Spencer’s leadership
style that we have the team effort we do.”  Bachus also has engendered support through his fundraising
for Republican candidates and colleagues, ranking among the top
members this year in donations to the National Republican
Campaign Committee, the party’s campaign arm for House races.  ‘Back-Door Bailouts’  Bachus is aligned with the Republicans pushing for free
markets and less-intrusive regulation. From the beginning of
debate over what became the Dodd-Frank law, he led opposition to
measures such as resolution authority to wind-down failing
firms, calling them “back-door bailouts.” He also fought
against the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and has
questioned the legality of Obama’s appointment of Harvard Law
School Professor  Elizabeth Warren  to an advisory position.  To be sure, the final decision won’t be made until the
Republican Steering Committee meets after the election.  “Decisions on committee ranking members or chairmen for
the 112th Congress will be made by the Steering Committee at the
appropriate time,” said Michael Steel, Boehner’s spokesman.  Bachus still could face a chairmanship challenge from
Representative  Ed Royce  of California, according to two
Republican aides. Royce, a senior Republican on the panel, has
made an overhaul of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac a central point
of his legislative work for much of the past decade and served
on the Republican side on the joint House-Senate conference
committee that finished drafting the financial overhaul bill.  Tirelessly Working  “Mr. Royce is tirelessly working to get back the
majority,” Audra McGeorge, his spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“Currently his focus is on November.”  Democrats on the committee said they are concerned that a
loss by their party could undo their attempts to rein in banks
during the past two sessions of Congress.  “I’ve really not seen Republicans willing to take on the
industry at all,” Representative  Brad Miller , a North Carolina
Democrat, said in an interview. “Their enthusiasm for the task
of making sure the law is implemented properly may be wanting.”  Even if Democrats hold the Senate, Johnson’s leadership of
the banking committee may move the panel to the right, said
 Brian Gardner , a former congressional staff member who is now a
financial services analyst for Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.  Credit Cards  Johnson, a three-term Senator, has split with fellow
Democrats on votes to crack down on credit cards, a prominent
industry in his state, and he was one of nine members of the
party to vote against the $700 billion bank bailout.  “You’re now going to go from a liberal Democrat in Dodd
who went along with the administration quite closely to a
centrist Democrat from a very conservative state,” Gardner
said.  Dodd, the Senate’s leading voice during the financial
overhaul talks, is leaving a committee that had several members
make contributions to the final bill. Johnson would become
chairman of a panel that had at least five Democrats play major
roles in shaping the Dodd-Frank law. Shelby’s Republicans will
have a different look, with retirements and election defeats
removing at least four of the party’s 10 panel members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
 Clea Benson  in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  