-- Halliburton Disputes U.S. on Cement Tests for BP Well
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2010-10-30T01:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/halliburton-cement-ordered-turned-over-to-federal-rig-probe.html
Halliburton Co.  was ordered to turn
over cement used on the Deepwater Horizon project in connection
with a probe into the cause of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. The
order was given by a federal judge in New Orleans on Oct. 27.  The release of the court order today follows yesterday’s
 National Oil Commission  report that Halliburton cement used on
the  BP Plc  well in April was unstable.  The court order by U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  of New
Orleans requires Halliburton to turn over “certain materials”
used in the cementing jobs on the Deepwater Horizon project to
federal investigators from the U.S. Coast Guard and the
Department of the Interior.  “It is further ordered that no destructive testing on the
cementing components will be conducted without further order of
the court,” said Barbier, who also is overseeing civil
litigation arising from the oil spill.  “Halliburton will comply immediately with Judge Barbier’s
order issued earlier today and expects the government to
retrieve these items next week,”  Cathy Mann , a Halliburton
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Halliburton attorneys have asked the judge for permission
to comply with subpoenas from the U.S. Department of Justice,
which is investigating possible civil and criminal violations in
connection with the rig blast April 20 that killed 11 crewmen
and led to the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  Anadarko Subpoena  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , which owns 25 percent of the
well, was subpoenaed yesterday to turn over seven sample boxes
containing about nine pounds of drill cuttings to the joint
investigative panel, that company said in a court filing.
Deborah Kuchler, a lawyer for  Anadarko , said in papers filed
today in Barbier’s court that the boxes contain 396 envelopes,
each of which holds 40 to 68 samples of rock cuttings weighing
from 0.25 ounces to 2 ounces each.  “The samples appear to have been taken at approximately
30-foot increments” across a zone ranging from a depth of 9,076
feet to 18,360 feet within the well, Kuchler said. She said the
samples have been “washed and dried for storage.’’ With
Barbier’s permission, the company will turn them over by the
Nov. 4 deadline set in the subpoena, she said.  Kuchler and  John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman,
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment after regular
business hours today.  Physical Samples  Halliburton was ordered by Barbier to turn over specific
items to federal investigators, including “physical samples
from the Deepwater Horizon project” to investigators from the
U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board; one quart
of “ZoneSeal-2000” from the same “lot” or mixture used in
the cementing job completed on the Deepwater Horizon on April
19; and two gallons and one quart of “SCR-100” from the same
mixture used on the Deepwater Horizon cementing job.  Barbier said Halliburton is “willing to deliver” the
materials requested by the joint investigation panel, a task
force of Coast Guard and Interior Department investigators.  Halliburton advised the judge that the cementing materials
may be “deteriorating over time,” Barbier said, adding that
the evidence should be tested as soon as “reasonably
practicable.”  Halliburton made a filing with the judge on Oct. 7
responding to subpoenas for the ZoneSeal and SCR-100 materials.  Same Batch  Halliburton “can also make available each of the liquid
and dry additives of the type used on the Deepwater Horizon, but
does not have possession of any quantity of those additives from
the same batch or lot as was used on the Deepwater Horizon,”
Halliburton lawyer  Donald E. Godwin  told the judge in the Oct. 7
filing. “Halliburton is agreeable to turning over all of the
cementing components in response to the (federal) subpoena.”  The judge also ordered that no further testing on the
subpoenaed materials should be done without his permission.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 2:10-md-02179
in the Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 