-- Almirall Slumps After Disappointing Test Results of Forest Lung Treatment
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   P a u l   T o b i n
-- 2010-10-29T15:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/almirall-slumps-after-disappointing-test-results-of-forest-lung-treatment.html
Laboratorios Almirall SA  fell the
most in two years in Madrid trading after a disappointing late-
stage trial of its smokers’ cough treatment.  The 544-patient study showed a smaller benefit for patients
than seen in three previous studies, Barcelona-based Almirall
and U.S. partner  Forest Laboratories Inc.  said today in a
statement. The companies didn’t give specifics about how much
the drug, aclidinium bromide, helped patients, only saying it
was better than a placebo though not as effective as in the
previous trials.  The inhaled drug would compete with  Boehringer Ingelheim
GmbH ’s Spiriva treatment for the condition, also known as
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and estimated to affect
210 million people worldwide. The “disappointing” results
follow a similar announcement in September 2008 that Almirall’s
drug hadn’t matched the effect shown in previous trials, said
 Francisco Salvador , a Madrid-based strategist at Iberian
Equities.  “This is the second time we’ve had bad news for this
product,” Salvador said in a telephone interview.  Almirall sank 1.2 euros, or 15 percent, to 6.8 euros in
Madrid, the biggest decline since Sept. 3, 2008, giving the
company a market value of 1.13 billion euros ($1.57 billion).  A third late-stage study of aclidinium bromide is under
way, with results expected in the first quarter of next year,
the companies said. The medicine retains the “potential to be
an important treatment option” for COPD patients,  Per-Olof Andersson , executive director of research and development at
Almirall, said in a statement.  The Spanish drugmaker said it aims to file for U.S. and
European regulatory approval for aclidinium bromide in mid-2011.
New York-based  Forest  holds the U.S. rights for the drug.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  