-- Alstom’s Bid to Block Eurostar Contract Dismissed
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-10-29T17:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/alstom-s-bid-to-block-eurostar-contract-dismissed-by-u-k-judge.html
Alstom SA  failed to win an
injunction from a London judge blocking Eurostar Group Ltd. from
buying trains from  Siemens AG .  Justice  Geoffrey Vos  at the High Court in London refused to
grant the French company a temporary injunction that would have
barred Eurostar from signing a contract with Siemens until a
full trial could take place. Alstom has claimed it would suffer
“serious and irreparable harm,” if the German company were
allowed to win a bid for trains to operate in the tunnel under
the English Channel.  While Alstom made valid arguments about the fairness of
Eurostar’s bidding criteria, Vos said it would be “unjust” for
him to “freeze the tendering process.” If he did, it might
take as long as a year before Eurostar could place the order.  Eurostar  said Oct. 7 it would buy 10 trains from Siemens in
a contract worth 600 million euros ($834 million) to add routes
and fend off competition from Germany’s  Deutsche Bahn AG , which
plans services via the tunnel from 2013. A lawyer for Alstom
argued earlier this week the company’s rights to transparency
and non-discrimination under European Union rules were violated
by Eurostar’s bidding process.  “This is Eurostar’s entire business,” Vos said, unlike
Alstom which has other projects. “Siemens took the bidding
process far more seriously,” than Alstom and listened to what
Eurostar was seeking, he said.  Safety Rules  Alstom had also argued Eurostar chose trains with multiple
power sources, which breached the tunnel’s safety rules.
Existing rules say that only trains with power provided by
locomotives at the front or back of the train can go through the
tunnel, Alstom lawyer Sarah Hannaford said.  While Vos denied Alstom permission to appeal, under U.K.
law the company can now directly petition the Court of Appeal to
take the case.  “Alstom will pursue alternative legal options to uphold
its position,” the company, based near Paris, said today in a
statement following the ruling, adding that it “has already
submitted its case to the European Commission.”  Eurostar will postpone signing the contract until Nov. 2 to
give them time to file papers, the company’s lawyer  Michael
Bowsher  said.  “We are very pleased that the situation has been resolved
and we can proceed to signing the contract for our new fleet of
trains with Siemens,” Eurostar, which is controlled by  French
state rail operator SNCF , said in a statement provided at the
court. “We have always been confident we conduct a rigorous
tender process and have chosen the best trains for our
passengers.”  Siemens is “very pleased that the injunction has been
refused,” spokeswoman  Anja Uhlendorff  said in an e-mailed
statement. “We look forward to proceeding and signing the
contract with Eurostar once the legal process permits.”  The case, Alstom Transport v. Eurostar International Ltd.,
is being heard at the High Court in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  