-- Lions Gate, American Home, Wells Fargo in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-29T10:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/american-home-clarient-ge-wells-fargo-tiger-asia-bhp-in-court-news.html
  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp . sued
billionaire Carl Icahn over the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. studio
deal in federal court in  New York , alleging the financier was
“secretly plotting” to merge the studios.  In the lawsuit, Vancouver-based Lions Gate, the studio
whose films include “Crash” and “Precious,” alleges that
Icahn realized by June that Lions Gate was in advanced
negotiations with two unidentified studios. Aware that the deals
might dilute his stake in Lions Gate, Icahn “took drastic and
improper action,” the studio said.  Icahn, 74, the studio’s largest shareholder, undermined any
proposed transactions by making false and misleading statements,
Lions Gate said. He told the investing public that such a deal
would be a “financial debacle” and issued press releases
vowing to challenge any transaction and sue any entity that
interfered with his tender offer, the studio said.  “Icahn opposed a merger with MGM not because it was bad
for Lions Gate shareholders, but because it was good -- so good,
in fact, that he wanted to postpone it until he could buy as
much of both companies as he could and thus extract for himself
as much of the value stemming from the merger as possible,”
Lions Gate said in the complaint, filed yesterday in U.S.
District Court in New York.  Susan Gordon, a spokeswoman for Icahn, said yesterday he
wasn’t immediately available for comment. Susie Arons, a
spokeswoman for MGM, didn’t return a voice-mail message left
after business hours yesterday.  Lions Gate seeks to rescind the purchases of all of its
shares acquired by Icahn. Lions Gate also asked the judge to bar
Icahn from buying more of its shares and to grant the studio
unspecified damages caused by his alleged interference in its
proposed deals.  The case is Lions Gate Entertainment Corp., v. Carl Icahn,
10-CV-8169, filed in the Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Wilbur Ross’s Mortgage Company Faces Servicing Suits  Billionaire Wilbur Ross’s American Home Mortgage Servicing
Inc., facing lawsuits by attorneys general in two states, was
sued by a homeowner who accused the firm of using tactics that
lead to improper foreclosures.  The lawsuit, filed Oct. 25 in federal court in Dallas,
seeks class-action status on behalf of homeowners with mortgages
serviced by American Home going back to 2006. American Home’s
“illegal, unfair and deceptive business practices victimize
borrowers” across the U.S., according to the complaint.  American Home “routinely and systematically assesses
unwarranted fees against consumers, resulting in premature
default that often gives rise to unfair and improper foreclosure
proceedings,” according to the complaint.  Banks and loan servicers are under scrutiny for their
foreclosure practices following accusations they relied on
faulty documentation to foreclose on people’s homes. Attorneys
general in all 50 states have launched a coordinated
investigation into the issue.  The complaint in Dallas, filed by Kay VanHauen of Sanger,
Texas, follows lawsuits by Greg Abbott, the state’s attorney
general, and Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray. They
separately sued American Home, based in Coppell,  Texas , for
alleged violations of consumer protection laws.  “While a lawsuit on occasion may identify a legitimate
servicing error, most of which are isolated and none of which to
our knowledge indicate any systematic process flaws or patterns
or unlawful behavior, we believe the majority of them are
without merit,” Philippa Brown, a spokeswoman for American
Home, said yesterday in a phone interview.  American Home is facing similar allegations in other
lawsuits.  The cases are Kay VanHauen v. American Home Mortgage
Servicing Inc., 10-02146, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Texas (Dallas); State of Texas v. American Home Mortgage
Servicing Inc., 2010-3307, District Court of El Paso County,
Texas; State of Ohio v. American Home Mortgage Servicing Inc.,
09-708888, Court of Common Pleas, Cuyahoga County, Ohio; Michael
Landi v. American Home Mortgage Servicing Inc., 10-00921, U.S.
District Court, District of Maryland (Baltimore); Kenneth Coplin
v. American Home Mortgage Servicing Inc., 3:10-cv-01096, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  California  (San Diego).  For more, click here.  Bank of America Sued Over Loan-Modification Practices    Bank of America Corp ., the largest U.S. bank by assets, was
sued by a Florida borrower who accused the bank of violating the
federal government’s home-loan modification program to boost its
earnings.  The bank told customer-service representatives to mislead
homeowners who ask about loan modifications, ignored completed
modifications and failed to credit payments, Shari Goldman said
Oct. 27 in a complaint filed in U.S. District Court in West Palm
Beach, Florida.  Goldman, who cited unidentified former bank employees in
the complaint as the source of her information, asked the court
to grant her suit class-action, or group, status.  “Bank of America has serially strung out, delayed, and
otherwise hindered the modification processes that it
contractually undertook to facilitate when it accepted billions
of dollars from the United States,” Goldman said in her
complaint.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, in
July 2008 acquired Countrywide Financial Corp. for $2.5 billion
to become the largest U.S. servicer of home loans. Countrywide’s
name became synonymous with the boom in mortgage loans to
borrowers with poor credit as its revenue quadrupled between
2001 and 2006.  Shirley Norton, a Bank of America spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t comment on the complaint because the bank hadn’t seen
it. The bank, she said, has completed more than 85,000
modifications under the government program, known as Home
Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP. It also approved more
than 614,000 “proprietary” modifications completed outside of
the program, she said.  “Bank of America has left thousands of borrowers in a
state of limbo -- often worse off than they were before they
sought a modification from Bank of America,” Goldman said.  The case is Shari Goldman v. Bank of America NA, 10-81264,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (West Palm
Beach).  For more, click here.  Clarient, GE Sued by Investor Over $580 Million Buyout  Clarient Co., a provider of cancer diagnostic equipment and
services, was sued by a shareholder seeking more money in a
planned $580 million cash buyout by  General Electric Co .  General Electric announced Oct. 22 that it would pay $5 for
each common share and $20 for each preferred share of Aliso
Viejo, California-based Clarient to expand into tailored
diagnostic tests. The deal fails to maximize shareholder value,
shareholder Bette R. Grayson Kurzweil said Oct. 27 in a
complaint in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “To the detriment of Clarient’s shareholders, the merger
agreement’s terms substantially favor GE and are calculated to
unreasonably dissuade potential suitors from making competing
offers,” lawyers for Kurzweil, the trustee under the will of
Bernard Rosenman, said in the complaint.  “We intend to defend against these litigation matters
vigorously,” Matt Clawson, a Clarient spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We are confident that Clarient and its board
of directors complied with their fiduciary duties to the
stockholders.”  Aleisia Gibson, a spokeswoman for Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE, declined to comment.  The complaint names both Clarient and General Electric as
defendants. Kurzweil is seeking a court order barring the
purchase and unspecified damages.  The case is Kurzweil v.  Clarient Inc ., CA5932, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Wells Fargo Emerges as Target, Role Model in Foreclosure Probe  Wells Fargo & Co. has become both a target of U.S. states
investigating bank foreclosure practices and an example of how
the mess might be cleaned up, as attorneys general from across
the country begin to meet with lenders.  Ohio’s attorney general yesterday criticized the bank’s
plan to submit supplemental affidavits to courts in about 55,000
foreclosure proceedings after it found some statements “did not
strictly adhere to the required procedures.” At the same time,
Arizona’s attorney general held up Wells Fargo’s Oct. 6
agreement on loan modification procedures as a model remedy for
a 50-state foreclosure probe.  “These people think they can play by a different set of
rules,” Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray said in an
interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with
Margaret Brennan.” “It’s not just individuals who signed
flawed affidavits. It’s a business model designed on fraud.”  Attorneys general in all 50 states started a probe into
foreclosure practices after court documents surfaced showing
employees signed papers without ensuring their accuracy. Bank of
America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.
suspended some foreclosure sales or evictions, pending reviews.
Wells Fargo said in a statement Oct. 27 that it doesn’t intend
to stop foreclosure sales.  Teri Schrettenbrunner, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, said in an e-mail yesterday that none of the
paperwork problems have led to foreclosures that shouldn’t have
otherwise occurred and the problems aren’t related to the
quality of loan data.  “We have chosen to submit supplemental affidavits out of
an abundance of caution,” she said. “We intend to be
responsive to General Cordray’s inquiries and look forward to
addressing his concerns.”  Any resolution of the investigation should address consumer
complaints about loan modification, Arizona Attorney General
Terry Goddard said in an interview Oct. 27. Homeowners seeking
modifications have complained that they weren’t offered revised
payments, wound up with the same or higher payments, or were
foreclosed on during the process.  “What I’m most angry about is the simultaneous
modifications and foreclosures,” he said. “We need to look for
a stipulated judgment in all 50 states, that if someone is in
modification, they can’t be foreclosed.”  Goddard, a member of the executive committee, said he has
been pushing in meetings with the other attorneys general for
revisions in loan-modification procedures, pointing to the
agreement with Wells Fargo as a possible guide.  For more, click here.    Roomy Khan , Witness in Galleon Case, Settles With SEC  Roomy Khan, a cooperating witness and defendant in the
government’s insider trading case against Galleon Group co-
founder Raj Rajaratnam, settled a related civil lawsuit brought
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Khan, a former  Intel Corp . executive, will pay $1.9 million
including interest to settle the case, according to an agreement
filed Oct. 27 in federal court in Manhattan. Khan pleaded guilty
in the criminal insider trading case and is cooperating with the
government in a bid for leniency.  Rajaratnam is the central figure in two overlapping
prosecutions in which 21 people have been charged, with 12 of
them pleading guilty. He was arrested in October 2009, accused
of earning millions of dollars from stock trades made with
inside information from corporate officials and hedge fund
executives.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers are seeking to show that U.S. agents
lied or misled a federal judge and then illegally recorded
Rajaratnam’s communications. The recordings are the centerpiece
of the biggest insider-trading prosecution in history.  Prosecutors argue their best evidence comes from Khan,
which they used to obtain her cooperation in the criminal case.  Khan’s lawyer, David Wikstrom, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment after regular business hours yesterday.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  The civil case is SEC v. Galleon, 09-cv-08811, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Tiger  Asia  Gets SEC Subpoena After  Hong Kong  Probe  Tiger Asia Management LLC, the New York-based hedge-fund
firm led by Bill Hwang, received a subpoena from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, following allegations of
insider trading from Hong Kong’s securities regulator.  The SEC has requested trading records and other documents,
Tiger Asia told investors in a letter dated Oct. 12. The firm
said it assumes the subpoena was prompted by the probe in Hong
Kong, according to the letter, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The Hong Kong  Securities and Futures Commission  in August
of last year applied for a High Court injunction to freeze some
Tiger Asia assets, saying the firm had engaged in insider
dealing and market manipulation involving  China Construction
Bank Corp . shares. In April, the Hong Kong regulator sought to
ban Tiger Asia from trading there, the first time it appealed to
a court for such a prohibition.  Tiger Asia told clients it’s cooperating with the SEC. The
firm denies any wrongdoing and continues to fight the injunction
sought by the Hong Kong regulator, according to the letter. Its
trading in Hong Kong isn’t affected, the firm wrote.  Shawn Pattison, a spokesman for the hedge fund, declined to
comment, as did John Nester, a spokesman for the SEC in  Washington .  Hong Kong-based SFC spokesman Jonathan Li declined to say
whether the regulator’s investigation into Tiger Asia continues.
Two legal actions by the SFC against the fund, for a freeze of
their assets and to ban them from trading in Hong Kong, are
ongoing, Li said. He declined to comment on the extent of the
SFC’s cooperation with the U.S. regulator.  For more, click here.  BHP Wins Order Sealing Part of Revamped Potash Suit    BHP Billiton Ltd . won an interim court order sealing parts
of a revised complaint Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. plans
to file in an effort to block a $40 billion hostile takeover.  U.S. District Judge Charles Norgle in  Chicago  yesterday
imposed a temporary blackout on seven paragraphs of the revised
complaint, giving BHP until the close of business on Nov. 1 to
explain why they should remain under seal. Potash Corp. has
three days to respond. A preliminary injunction hearing is set
for Nov. 4.  “What’s the harm?” Norgle asked Potash Corp. lawyer Lee
Ann Russo during a hearing yesterday. Russo and Michele
Odorizzi, a lawyer for BHP, earlier told the judge that BHP was
dropping a demand to redact 48 paragraphs. The company sought to
shield what it called in court papers “highly confidential and
sensitive business information.”  Potash Corp., the world’s biggest fertilizer maker, sued
Melbourne-based BHP on Sept. 22, accusing the world’s largest
mining company of making misleading public statements to drive
down Potash Corp.’s share value before the Aug. 17 bid.  BHP denied the allegations. Both sides have been engaged in
the pre-trial exchange of evidence -- some of which is subject
to seal -- in preparation for the hearing next week.  This week, Saskatoon-based Potash Corp., citing evidence
gleaned during the disclosure process, asked U.S. District Judge
David H. Coar for permission to file the revised complaint with
confidential portions blacked out. Coar rejected the sealing
request yesterday.  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan v. BHP Billiton,
10-06024, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  For more, click here.  Toyota Knew of Sudden Acceleration, Lawyers Claim    Toyota Motor Corp . technicians confirmed that vehicles were
unexpectedly accelerating and the company bought back the
vehicles, had customers sign confidentiality agreements and
didn’t disclose the problems to regulators, plaintiffs’ lawyers
said in court documents.  In testimony about acceleration defects before Congress,
Toyota didn’t disclose that its own employees had replicated
instances of sudden unexplained acceleration not caused by
pedals or mats, according to documents filed yesterday in
federal court in Santa Ana, California. The company also didn’t
report the customer agreements to the  National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration , the plaintiffs’ lawyers said.  Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, faces more than 300
lawsuits in state and federal court over alleged sudden
acceleration of its vehicles.  Steven Curtis, a spokesman for Toyota’s U.S. sales arm in
Torrance, California, said yesterday in an e-mail that no
technicians for the company or field specialists confirmed
unintended acceleration in vehicles. He said the plaintiffs’
lawyers are referring to service technicians employed by
dealerships, which are independent businesses.  The case is In re Toyota Motor Corp. Unintended
Acceleration Litigation, 10-MDL-2151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Wells Fargo Foreclosure on Bankrupt Homeowner Halted  Tandala Mims was allowed to keep her two-family brick home
in Bronx, New York, after Wells Fargo Bank NA’s bid for
foreclosure was rejected by a bankruptcy judge who said the
bank’s paperwork was “questionable.”  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in Manhattan ruled Oct.
27 that Wells Fargo can’t bypass the automatic shield against
legal claims triggered by Mims’s filing for personal bankruptcy
in July. Wells Fargo couldn’t document how it acquired the
rights to Mims’s mortgage, which originated with another lender,
the judge said.  Wells Fargo’s worksheet tracking defaults on the loan went
back to April 1, and was “questionable given it only recently
acquired interest” in the mortgage, Glenn said.  Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. home lender, has proceeded
with home seizures while rivals including Bank of America Corp.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. delay theirs amid a 50-state probe into
whether banks and loan servicers used false documents and
signatures to justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures.  The San Francisco-based bank said yesterday it will file
supplemental foreclosure affidavits to courts in about 55,000
proceedings after finding some lapses in its paperwork.  Teri Schrettenbrunner, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, had
no immediate comment yesterday on Mims’s case.  The case is In re Tandala Mims, 10-14030, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Richard Fuld to Get $10 Million From Lehman Insurers  Richard Fuld,  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc .’s former chief
executive officer, will get $10 million from the defunct firm’s
insurers to settle a lawsuit by the Booth Foundation Inc.,
according to a court filing.  Fuld, who was paid $34.4 million in 2007, was asked to
leave Lehman at the end of 2008 after the biggest bankruptcy
filing in U.S. history. The Booth Foundation accused Fuld of
“failure to supervise claims arising out of alleged activities
of certain Lehman brokers” who sold Lehman-issued notes to the
foundation, Lehman said in an Oct. 27 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Manhattan.  The settlement payment, which needs a judge’s permission,
would equal about 5 percent of Lehman’s total insurance policies
from before its bankruptcy to cover directors and officers,
Lehman said.  In June, Fuld asked a judge to dismiss a lawsuit accusing
him and his colleagues of failing to disclose repurchase
transactions known as Repo 105s, which hid billion of dollars in
debt from Lehman investors, according to bankruptcy examiner
Anton Valukas.  Lehman’s former CEO didn’t know what the Repo 105
transactions were, his lawyer, Patricia Hynes of Allen & Overy
LP in New York, has said. She didn’t return a call seeking
comment on the Booth settlement.  The Booth lawsuit is Booth Foundation Inc. v. Richard S.
Fuld Jr., 10-2521, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  The repo lawsuit is In re Lehman Brothers Equity/Debt
Securities Litigation, 08-cv-05523, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On the Docket  Eurostar Ruling Over Siemens Train Contract Due Today  London High Court Justice Geoffrey Vos, the judge hearing
the case brought by French trainmaker  Alstom SA  against Eurostar
Group Ltd. over plans to buy a new fleet of trains from  Siemens
AG .,  said yesterday that he planned to give his ruling at 2:30
p.m. today.  Vos said the result may be “price sensitive.” Alstom is
suing Eurostar seeking an order halting the deal until a full
trial can take place.  Eurostar lawyer Michael Bowser said at the hearing
yesterday the company will postpone completing the agreement
until after Vos’s judgment. The deal was to close on Oct. 26.  A hearing on the case, Alstom Transport v. Eurostar
International Ltd., began on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 