-- Thames River Buys TIPS, Australia Bonds, Shuns Greece
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-29T14:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/thames-river-buys-u-s-tips-on-inflation-australian-bonds-shuns-greece.html
Thames River Capital put half its $2
billion of global bond-fund assets into U.S. inflation-protected
securities on bets that central banks including the Federal
Reserve will succeed in boosting consumer-price growth.  The rest has been invested in short-dated local-currency
debt in Australia, Brazil and South Africa, without hedging
against possible declines in the nations’ currencies as the
money manager expects them to rise, said  Peter Geikie-Cobb , a
portfolio manager in London at Thames River, which had $6.5
billion in assets at the end of June. The fund stays “well
clear” of debt from Europe’s high-deficit countries such as
Greece, Portugal and Ireland, he said.  “What the market priced in is too pessimistic, and we felt
that a double dip and deflation scenario was the least likely
outcome,” Geikie-Cobb said in an interview. “The Fed, the Bank
of England, and to a lesser extent, the European Central Bank,
have opened up their tool box for all to see and, in the event
of an economic meltdown, have the ability to do much more.”  The fund, which is part of  F&C Asset Management Plc  in
London, started buying U.S. Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, or TIPS, in July, Geikie-Cobb said. They have since
returned 5 percent, beating the 0.8 percent and 2.8 percent
gains from German and U.K. index-linked debt, respectively,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Fed Meeting  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will preside over a meeting of
policy makers next week that is likely to decide on whether to
launch another round of asset purchases after deploying $1.7
trillion to pull the economy out of the financial crisis. The
Bank of Japan earlier this month set up a 5 trillion-yen ($61.5
billion) fund to buy assets such as government bonds, a policy
tool known as quantitative easing.  U.S. consumer prices rose 0.1 percent in September, less
than forecast, figures from the Labor Department showed Oct. 15.
Core prices, which exclude food and fuel costs, were little
changed to cap a 0.8 percent increase in the past 12 months, the
smallest year-over-year gain since 1961.  “A combination of growth currencies and inflation
protection makes sense until financial markets begin to price in
a less gloomy outlook,” Geikie-Cobb said. “There’s still a lot
of uncertainty around. Whatever the future holds, we firmly
believe that markets will price in the extremes, providing
excellent investment opportunities along the way.”  Breakeven Rate  The U.S. 10-year  break-even rate , a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the yield gap between nominal
Treasuries and TIPS, has risen nearly 34 basis points this month
to 2.16 percentage points.  Speculation that the Fed will embark on another round of
quantitative easing has also weakened the dollar, boosting the
prospect of accelerating inflation as prices of foreign goods in
the U.S. become more expensive. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
yesterday repeated in a report its forecast for a further 5
percent drop in the dollar “on a broad, trade-weighted basis”
over the next 12 months.  Thames River doesn’t own any government bonds from Europe’s
high-deficit countries such as Greece, Ireland and Portugal even
as the extra yield these securities offer over benchmark German
debt are rising, Geikie-Cobb said.  “There is not a price at which we would get involved in
those markets at this point because their fundamentals are so
uncertain,” he said. “Our strategy would be to stay clear of
these markets.”  Budget Deficit  A review of Greece’s 2009 budget showed the deficit was
above 15 percent of gross domestic product, more than previously
estimated, Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said in
Cyprus two days ago.  Portugal’s opposition Social Democrats will consider any
proposals the government may still make regarding its 2011
budget, leader Pedro Passos Coelho said at a conference today.
Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said yesterday the government would
make an effort to reach an agreement. The two sides said two
days that they broke off talks on the budget.  Credit default swaps on Irish bonds jumped to 482 basis
points today from 428 basis points on Oct. 22 as the government
became locked in a standoff with Anglo Irish Bank Corp. note
holders over who should bear the cost of rescuing the
nationalized lender.  “Until the real problems are addressed, we will still be
of the view that investors in Greek bonds and possibly other
peripheral debt are going to have to take haircuts at some point
down the road,” said Geikie-Cobb. “There are better investment
opportunities elsewhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  