-- American 757 Examined After Hole Opens in Fuselage
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-10-29T16:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/amr-corp-boeing-757-develops-hole-in-fuselage-during-flight.html
An  AMR Corp.  American Airlines plane
that developed a hole in the fuselage while flying on Oct. 26 is
being examined by regulators, who will consider possible
actions, the Federal Aviation Administration said today.  The one-by-two-foot hole in the  Boeing Co.  757-200 opened
at 31,000 feet just above the door on the left side near the
front of the aircraft, causing a loss of pressure and forcing an
emergency landing in Miami, where the flight began at 9:05 p.m.,
said  Les Dorr , an FAA spokesman.  The FAA is working with the National Transportation Safety
Board in its investigation “to help determine the cause and see
if there is any issue we need to address,” Dorr said in an
interview.  The examination by the agencies may lead to aircraft
inspections, a step advocated by Boeing in September 2009 after
an 18-by-12-inch hole opened on a  Southwest Airlines Co.  737
plane and forced an emergency landing two months earlier.  An investigation of the American incident must be completed
“before we can determine what action might be necessary,” said
Julie O’Donnell, a Boeing spokeswoman.  The FAA in January required airlines to check for cracks on
135 Boeing 737-300s, -400s and -500s in the U.S. The NTSB
determined in August that metal fatigue caused the Southwest
plane fuselage to rip at 35,000 feet.  Cockpit Recorder  In the American incident, the NTSB removed the cockpit-
voice and flight-data recorders for examination and probably
will interview crew members, said  Keith Holloway , a board
spokesman.  The plane, headed for Boston when the fuselage hole opened,
is grounded while the NTSB investigates, Holloway said. The NTSB
is an independent federal agency that probes aviation accidents
and makes safety recommendations.  Oxygen masks deployed on the plane with 160 passengers and
crew, and the pilots decided to return to Miami after descending
to a lower altitude, American said today in a statement.  In 1988, an  Aloha Airlines  flight attendant was sucked out
of a Boeing 737 when an 18-foot section of fuselage was torn
away, forcing an emergency landing on the Hawaiian island of
Maui.  The NTSB later concluded that metal fatigue and inspection
deficiencies, exacerbated by frequent pressurization for Aloha’s
short-haul flights, led to failure of bonding of joints in the
aircraft, causing “premature fatigue cracking.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  