-- Anglo Gets Two Minas Rio Permits; Project ‘On Track’
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-29T16:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/anglo-gets-two-more-permits-for-biggest-project-says-minas-rio-on-track-.html
Anglo American Plc , suffering delays
and cost overruns at its biggest project, said the company has
secured two more of the “key licenses” it needs to start
operations at its Minas Rio iron-ore development in Brazil.  “The mining permit has been submitted and approved and the
technical aspects of the permit have been approved,” Chief
Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said by phone yesterday from
Johannesburg. “We’re still on track to deliver what I outlined
at the interims.”  Anglo said in July the cost of the development in the state
of Minas Gerais may rise by about a fifth to $4.6 billion
because of delays in getting permits and project design changes.
The company, which initially planned to begin mining in 2010,
said the earliest possible start date is now in 2013.  The permit Anglo must now obtain is a second plant
installation license and this “could be achievable over the
next three months, when we expect Anglo to update the market,”
analysts at Nomura Equity Research said in a note dated Oct. 18.  Anglo fell as much as 3.3 percent on Sept. 24 in London
trading after UBS AG cut the stock to “neutral” from “buy”
and said the company may postpone production from Minas Rio
until the first half of 2014.  ‘Diamonds Still Core’  The miner, based in London, is also making progress in its
efforts to secure land along the route of its planned pipeline
in Brazil, Carroll said. The company now has access to 82
percent of the land along the pipeline route, up from 54 percent
in January, she said.  Anglo’s  debt  surged in 2008 after buying Minas Rio for
about $5.5 billion near the top of a six-year commodities rally.
While Carroll has since sold some “non-core assets” to cut
debt, the company has no plans to dispose of its stake in
diamond producer  De Beers , she said.  “Diamonds remain a core business to Anglo American and our
focus is on driving performance,” Carroll said. Anglo has a 45
percent stake in De Beers.  Anglo is spending about $17 billion expanding production of
copper, iron ore, nickel and other commodities it says are
“core” and in increasing demand in growing Asian economies. At
the same time, China has cut exports of rare-earth exports for
the second half of 2010 by 72 percent, prompting Japanese and
German officials and manufacturers of BlackBerrys and  Toyota 
Prius cars, which need the materials, to voice their alarm.
China used to meet 97 percent of world rare-earth needs.  Right Mix  “I don’t think that rare earths is anything, from a scale/
size standpoint, anything compared to the commodities that we’ve
chosen to pursue,” Carroll said. “We do think we’ve got the
right mix right now. But it doesn’t mean we aren’t thinking
about other commodities.”  The rare earths, a group of 17 metals including neodymium,
lanthanum, cerium and europium, also have industrial and
national-security uses, such as in petroleum refining, fiber-
optics transmission and missile-guidance systems.  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , in which Anglo owns a 63 percent
stake, is involved in a battle over disputed mining rights at
 Sishen , South Africa’s largest iron ore mine.  Imperial Crown Trading Ltd. was awarded part of the
prospecting rights at the deposit after  ArcelorMittal South
Africa Ltd.  missed a renewal deadline.  Kumba demanded the disputed right for itself and used the
conflict to cancel a supply deal that had given the steelmaker
most of its ore at a discount.  “We’re working through the judicial system and the high
court,” Carroll said. “We have confidence in that process and
the system itself and that’s what we’re pursuing.”  Anglo gained 0.5 percent to 2,908 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close of London trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  