-- Anworth, Forest, GlaxoSmithKline, Stryker: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-10-29T21:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/anworth-forest-glaxosmithkline-idenix-stryker-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading on Nov. 1. Stock symbols
are in parentheses.       Anworth Mortgage Asset Corp.  (ANH US): The Santa Monica,
California-based real estate investment trust reported third-
quarter earnings of 19 cents a share, missing the average
analyst estimate by 4 cents.       Forest Laboratories Inc.  (FRX US): The drugmaker’s medicine
ceftaroline was approved for use in bacterial pneumonia and
drug-resistant skin infections, the Food and Drug Administration
said in a statement. Forest plans to sell the drug under the
brand name Teflaro.       GlaxoSmithKline Plc  (GSK US): The U.K.’s biggest drugmaker
is voluntarily recalling Emo-Cort 2.5% Lotion, which is
available in Canada and used to treat eczema, dermatitis and
other skin irritations. The recall comes as a result of a
consumer complaint of a brown substance in the product and the
identification of presence of mold contamination after testing.       Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc.  (IDIX US): The Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based company posted a third-quarter loss of 18
cents a share, narrower than the 22-cent loss average estimate
of analysts.       Northeast Utilities  (NU US): New England’s largest utility
owner boosted its forecast for fiscal 2010 earnings to as much
as $2.20 a share, compared with a previous guidance of no more
than $2.05 a share.       Stryker Corp.  (SYK US): The maker of artificial knees and
hips will buy privately held Porex Surgical, which develops
products used primarily in head and face reconstructive surgery.
The transaction is expected to be neutral to Stryker’s 2010 and
2011 earnings and accretive after that. Terms of the transaction
weren’t disclosed.       UIL Holdings Corp.  (UIL US): The Connecticut-based power
supplier forecast earnings for 2010 to be as much as $2.05 a
share, beating the $1.90 average estimate of analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 