-- Tanzania's President Kikwete Will Probably Win a Second Term in Landslide
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   W i l f r e d   M w a k a l o s i
-- 2010-10-29T08:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/tanzania-s-president-kikwete-will-probably-win-a-second-term-in-landslide.html
Tanzanian President  Jakaya Kikwete 
will probably win a presidential election this weekend by a
landslide as the success of his economic policies supersedes
concerns about growing corruption, said pollsters and analysts
including  Sebastian Spio-Garbrah  at Da Mina Advisors LLP.  The 60-year-old leader will probably win more than two-
thirds of the ballots cast in the Oct. 31 vote, six times more
than his nearest rival, according to an opinion poll conducted
by the University of Dar es Salaam this month. While his lead
slipped six percentage points since March, Kikwete’s closest
rival, Wilbrod Slaa of the Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo
party, has the support of only 12.3 percent of voters.  Since taking office in December 2005, Kikwete’s policies
helped generate average annual growth of 6.7 percent, according
to  International Monetary Fund  data. Over the same period,
Tanzania’s ranking deteriorated to 116th from 93rd on an index of
the world’s most corrupt countries compiled by  Transparency
International , the Berlin-based organization.  “The economy is growing and it survived the recent
recession much better than most other economies,” Spio-Garbrah
said in a phone interview from New York yesterday. “Clearly
Kikwete will win re-election, that’s not in doubt, but there are
big issues with corruption and governance within his party, the
Chama cha Mapundzi.”  The Tanzanian unit of  Synovate , the London-based market-
research firm, said on Oct. 10 that Kikwete has the support of
61 percent of the electorate. The Synovate and University of Dar
es Salaam polls didn’t provide a margin of error.  Maintain Policy  Kikwete has pledged to maintain fiscal policies that are
expected to drive the economic growth rate to 6.5 percent this
year and 6.7 percent in 2011, the IMF said on Oct. 6. That
compares with average growth rates of 5 percent and 5.5 percent
expected in the rest of sub-Saharan Africa in the same periods.  During his first five-year term, Kikwete boosted spending
on roads and energy projects, using higher tax revenue and donor
funding, while keeping a lid on government borrowing. He also
helped negotiate the formation of a common market for the  East
African Community , which includes  Kenya , Uganda, Rwanda and
Burundi and is aimed at boosting regional trade and attracting
investment.  “Kikwete can take some credit for sustaining growth through
the global economic crisis,”  Anne Fruhauf , a London-based Africa
analyst at Eurasia Group, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“The main concern is the pervasiveness and scale of corruption,
which is a key theme that has haunted his presidency. Many
foreign investors find the operational risks from corruption
formidable.”  Corruption  Critics say Kikwete’s record on fighting corruption has
been marred by a failure to prosecute graft cases.  In January 2008, Kikwete fired Central Bank Governor  Daudi Ballali  following an irregular-payments scandal over which Prime
Minister  Edward Lowassa  resigned. In a separate incident that
year,  Andrew Chenge  stepped down as infrastructure development
minister after being investigated in a bribery probe involving
 BAE Systems Plc  in 1997. Ballali died in May 2008 and no
government ministers were prosecuted in either of the cases.  Donors to Tanzania announced in May they planned to cut
their pledges in the 2010-11 fiscal year by about $220 million
to $534 million.  “The big frustration from the donor community has been the
follow-through, they haven’t worked through the judicial system
with prosecutions and court cases,” said Fruhauf.  Gold, Coffee  Tanzania is Africa’s fourth-largest gold exporter, after
South Africa, Ghana and Mali. Companies including  Barrick Gold
Corp. , the world’s largest producer of the precious metal, and
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  mine deposits in the country. The East
African nation is also the continent’s fifth-biggest exporter of
coffee, after Ethiopia, Uganda, Ivory Coast and Cameroon.  Home to 43 million people belonging to more than 100 ethnic
groups and religions, Tanzania is reputed as a bastion of peace
in an unstable region.  For that, Kikwete won international kudos, including from
former U.S. President  George W. Bush , who in 2008 signed a $698
million grant from the government’s Millennium Challenge Corp.  The country has been a less certain bet for foreign
investors. The World Economic Forum’s 2010-11 global
competitiveness index ranked the country 113th out of 139
countries, compared with 110th a year earlier.  Rites Ltd.  of India, which won a 25-year concession and 51
percent stake in Tanzania Railways Ltd. in 2007, has faced
threats from the government officials that they may seize back
control of the rail line.  Mining Laws  Changes to mining laws in April, which increased royalties
paid on minerals to 4 percent from 3 percent, will give the
government a stake in all future projects. The Tanzania Chamber
of Minerals and Energy, an industry group, opposed the law,
saying it will deter new investment by mining companies and halt
expansion plans at existing mines.  This weekend’s vote will elect a president for the union of
Tanzania, which includes the mainland as well as the Indian
Ocean archipelago of Zanzibar. There will be a separate ballot
to choose Zanzibar’s president and parliament.  On Zanzibar, clashes followed the last two elections in
2000 and 2005, after the opposition accused the island’s
president,  Amani Abeid Karume , and his CCM party of vote-
rigging. A new power-sharing arrangement approved by  Zanzibar 
residents in July eased concerns that there will be further
clashes this weekend.  About 20 million people are registered to vote in the
elections. Polling stations open at 7 a.m. local time and close
at 4 p.m. Final results are expected on Nov. 2 or Nov. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Wilfred Mwakalosi  in Dar es Salaam via Johannesburg at 
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 