-- Apple Joins Top Five Handset Makers Worldwide as Nokia Slips
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-10-29T16:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/apple-leapfrogs-rim-to-become-one-of-top-five-handset-makers-nokia-slips.html
Apple Inc.  became one of the world’s
top five mobile-phone vendors in the third quarter while market
leader  Nokia Oyj ’s share fell, two industry research groups
said.  Apple vaulted past Research In Motion Ltd. and Sony
Ericsson to fourth place, helped by the introduction of the
iPhone in new markets,  International Data Corp . and  Strategy
Analytics  said today in reports. If Apple produces an iPhone for
Verizon Communications Inc.’s CDMA network, that could boost it
further, Strategy Analytics wrote.  “The entrance of Apple to the top five underscores the
increased importance of smartphones to the overall market,”
 Kevin Restivo , an IDC analyst, said in the report. “Vendors
that aren’t developing a strong portfolio of smartphones will be
challenged to grow and retain market share in the future.”  Nokia, the world’s biggest mobile-phone maker since 1998,
slipped to 32.4 percent of the market from 36.5 percent a year
earlier as Chinese brands challenged the Finnish company in
emerging markets, according to IDC figures.  Samsung Electronics
Co. , the second-largest, rose to 21 percent while the other big
Korean handset vendor,  LG Electronics , slipped more than two
percentage points to 8.3 percent, IDC said.  Sony Ericsson fell off the top-five list for the first time
since IDC began tracking the numbers in 2004.  Component Shortages  Global shipments rose 14.6 million to 340.5 million units
according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC. Strategy
Analytics pegged them lower, at 327 million units, noting that
the rate of growth slowed from the first half as component
shortages trimmed sales.  “Touchscreens, application processors and cameras are
among the components experiencing volatile supply,”  Neil Mawston  of Strategy Analytics wrote in his report.  “Many component manufacturers reduced production output
during the recession of 2009 and they are struggling, or even
unwilling, to restore the capacity in the upturn of 2010.”  The analysts’ totals and market share figures differed
because IDC counted a larger number of handsets for the
“other” category, which included new vendors in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  