-- Asian Currencies Rise a Second Month on Odds Fed Easing Will Fuel Inflows
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-10-30T02:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/asian-currencies-rise-a-second-month-on-odds-fed-easing-will-fuel-inflows.html
Asian currencies gained for a second
month on speculation the Federal Reserve will pump more money
into the economy, increasing the amount of funds that can be
invested in higher-yielding assets.  The Philippine peso led the gains as overseas investors
plowed about $12 billion into stocks in India, the Philippines,
South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand in October. Finance ministers
from the Group of 20 nations last week pledged to allow markets
to determine foreign-exchange rates, rather than “competitive
devaluations” aimed at supporting exports.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.6
percent this month, adding to September’s 2.6 percent increase,
the biggest since March 2009. The peso appreciated 2 percent to
43.025 versus the U.S. currency in Manila, according to prices
from inter-dealer broker Tullett Prebon Plc. Taiwan’s dollar
climbed 1.8 percent to NT$30.782 and the Singapore dollar
advanced 1.2 percent to S$1.2985.  “The dominant factor continues to be flows into Asia and
what offshore investors think of Asia as a whole,” said  Joey Cuyegkeng , a Manila-based economist at ING Groep NV, the largest
Dutch financial services company. “The outlook continues to be
quite favorable for Asia.”  Philippine Remittances  The Fed added funds to the banking system during the
financial crisis by buying back government debt to help
stimulate economic growth. The U.S. central bank asked bond
dealers and investors about their expectations for the size of
asset purchases over the next six months, according to a New
York Fed survey obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Speculators are expecting the Fed to print more money to
save the U.S. economy,” said  Henry Lin , a Taipei-based foreign-
exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial Bank. “The
Taiwan dollar and other Asian currencies will continue to rise
as global investors come to look for higher returns.”  The peso rose for a fourth month on optimism Filipinos
living abroad will send more money home before the end-of-year
holiday season, increasing demand for the currency.  Overseas  remittances  climbed 9.8 percent from a year
earlier in August, the most in eight months, the central bank
said on Oct. 15. The currency has strengthened 7.1 percent this
year, prompting policy makers on Oct. 28 to unveil measures to
ease foreign-exchange outflows and relieve appreciation pressure
on the peso.  “People continue to anticipate the seasonal peak in
inflows from remittances,” said ING’s Cuyegkeng. “The market
had anticipated the central bank’s intention to relax outward
flows. Expectations of further appreciation are still intact.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas said it would double to $60
million the amount of foreign exchange residents can buy for
investment abroad.  Intervention Risk  South Korea’s won advanced 1.3 percent this month to
1,125.16 per dollar, a second month of gains. The government on
Oct. 28 predicted Asia’s fourth-biggest economy will expand 6
percent this year.  Asia’s developing economies will see growth of 9.4 percent
in 2010, outpacing the 2.7 percent in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund forecast on Oct. 6.  The ringgit had its first monthly decline since May on
speculation the central bank will prevent the currency from
gaining too fast as inflows from overseas increase. It has
rallied by 10 percent this year.  Bank Negara Malaysia doesn’t want to see “sudden
movements” in its exchange rate and favors a “gradual
adjustment,” Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview on Oct. 27. In order for the currency to
reflect the underlying fundamentals, “this has to take place
over a period of time,” she said. The ringgit dropped 0.9
percent this month to 3.1115. It reached 3.0800 on Oct. 14, the
strongest level since 1997.  Elsewhere, the Thai baht advanced 1.2 percent this month to
29.99, the Indian rupee climbed 1 percent to 44.48 and the yuan
rose 0.3 percent to 6.6720. Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.3 percent
to 8,938.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 