-- Treasuries Gain, Stocks Fluctuate as GDP Stokes Fed Bets
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-29T20:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/asian-stocks-fall-on-samsung-sharp-outlook-yen-gains-commodities-drop.html
Treasuries rose while most U.S.
stocks gained at the end of a monthly rally as data on economic
growth and inflation fueled speculation the Federal Reserve
needs to begin large-scale asset purchases to shore up growth.  Thirty-year  Treasury yields  fell six basis points to 4
percent as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicted the Fed may
include the long bond in its next quantitative easing program.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slipped less than 0.1 percent to
1,183.26 at 4 p.m. in New York as almost seven shares advanced
for every five that declined on U.S. exchanges, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of commodities climbed as gold increased.  The S&P 500 added 3.7 percent in October, completing its
first back-to-back monthly rally since April amid improving
 earnings  and speculation the Fed will pump more cash into
financial markets. The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent rate
last quarter, a pace that may be insufficient to cut the jobless
rate of almost 10 percent. The Fed’s preferred  inflation measure ,
which strips out food and energy, rose less than forecast and
may bolster policy makers’ desire to spur growth in prices.  “The lackluster economic numbers really suggest the Fed
will have to implement more aggressive stimulus measures” said
 Eric Teal , chief investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares
Inc. in Raleigh, North Carolina, which manages $5 billion. “As
business confidence improves, we’ll get a better jobs picture
and ultimately investors’ psychology will improve. That will be
gradual though.”  October Advance  The S&P 500’s October gain built on an 8.8 percent surge in
the previous month, its best September since 1939. About 80
percent of companies in the index that have announced earnings
since Oct. 7 have topped analysts’ estimates for per-share
profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Microsoft Corp. 
added 1.5 percent today after raising its fourth-quarter
forecast.  The reading on U.S. gross domestic product was an
improvement from a 1.7 percent rate in the prior three months,
according to the Commerce Department report. The Fed’s preferred
inflation gauge cooled to a 0.8 percent pace as retailers like
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. cut prices.  Separate reports today showed business activity
unexpectedly accelerated in October while consumer confidence
declined.  Le Gaga Holdings Ltd., the Hong Kong-based greenhouse
vegetable producer, raised $103 million in an initial public
offering, completing the busiest month for U.S. IPOs in almost
three years. A total of 21 companies have sold shares through
IPOs in October, the most since 22 initial sales in December
2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  $20.5 Billion IPO  AIA Group Ltd. , the insurer sold by American International
Group Inc. in a $20.5 billion IPO, rallied 17 percent on its
first day of trading in Hong Kong following the biggest initial
public offering in the city’s history.  The 10-year Treasury yield slipped five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 2.61 percent. Treasuries lost 0.4
percent in October, the first decline since they fell 0.9
percent in March, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes showed.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  drifted between gains and losses
at the end of a 2 percent monthly advance. It finished the day
with a gain of less than 0.1 percent. Greece’s benchmark ASE
Index tumbled 1.9 percent. Piraeus Bank SA, the nation’s fourth-
biggest lender, slid 4.4 percent after saying it plans a 1.05
billion-euro ($1.5 billion) fundraising.  The difference in yield, or spread, between Greek 10-year
bonds and German bunds widened 20 basis points to 804 basis
points.  Ireland, Greece  A bondholder showdown in Ireland, slumping Greek tax
revenue and political gridlock in Portugal reversed Europe’s
biggest sovereign debt rally in three months. The average price
of credit-default swaps on Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and
Spain rose to a record 439 basis points from 363.5 on Oct. 22,
according to CMA.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  won European Union backing
for a rewrite of EU treaties to create a permanent debt-crisis
mechanism by 2013 to prevent a repeat of the Greece-led shock
that jolted the euro. At a summit in Brussels, Merkel made less
headway with calls to bar high-deficit countries from voting on
EU decisions, dramatizing the limits of Germany’s power over the
27-nation bloc.  Asian Markets  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.2 percent. Sharp Corp.,
Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, tumbled 5.8
percent. Bank of Communications Ltd. slumped 7.8 percent in Hong
Kong after third-quarter profit lagged behind forecasts. Japan’s
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average  sank 1.8 percent after a report showed
factory output decreased 1.9 percent from August, more than the
0.6 percent decline predicted in a Bloomberg survey.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.2 percent, capping
an October gain of 2.7 percent after an 11 percent rally in
September. South Korea’s  Kospi  index lost 1.3 percent, its
biggest retreat for 11 days, after industrial production rose at
the slowest pace in 11 months in September.  Samsung Electronics
Co.  slid 2.5 percent after the world’s biggest maker of
televisions, memory chips and flat screens forecast a drop in
fourth-quarter earnings.  The yen appreciated 0.7 percent to 80.43 versus the dollar
as the U.S. currency weakened against 12 of 16 major
counterparts. The Dollar Index, which measures the U.S. currency
against the euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swedish krona and
Swiss franc, fell 0.2 percent.  The pound advanced against the euro, heading for its first
weekly gain in seven against the 16-nation single currency,
after a report showed U.K. consumer confidence unexpectedly
improved this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 