-- Asian Stocks Decline as Sharp, Samsung Electronics Stoke Earnings Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-10-29T08:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/asian-stocks-drop-as-sharp-advantest-reduce-profit-forecasts-yen-gains.html
Asian stocks  fell, dragging the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to its second straight weekly decline, as
Sharp Corp. cut its profit forecast and Samsung Electronics Co.
said memory-chip and display-panel prices will drop.  Sharp Corp. , Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal
displays, tumbled 5.8 percent in Tokyo as a stronger yen hurt
the outlook for export earnings.  Samsung Electronics , which
reported record third-quarter profit today, dropped 2.5 percent
in Seoul as it said it anticipates “severe” competition.  Bank
of Communications Ltd.  slumped 7.8 percent in Hong Kong after
posting third-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.5 percent to 128.92 as
of 5:39 p.m. in Tokyo, extending this week’s decline to 0.8
percent. The gauge has climbed 2.1 percent in October, set for
its second month of gains since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 27 more securities purchases may be
warranted if growth slows. Fed policy makers meet on Nov. 2-3.  “Much of the positive news from potential further
quantitative easing in the U.S. has been priced in,” said
 Pauline Dan , Hong Kong-based chief investment officer at Samsung
Invest Trust, which oversees about $72.1 billion in assets.
“Earnings momentum for electronics companies will no doubt be
slower. It’s logical for people to expect slower growth into
2011.”  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average decreased 1.8 percent, the
most since Oct. 12. as a government report showed the country’s
industrial production fell for a fourth month in September,
adding to concern an export-led recovery is losing momentum.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index  dropped 1.3 percent. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index, Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  and
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.5 percent.  Technology Slump  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slipped 0.4
percent. While the index rose 0.1 percent yesterday in New York,
most stocks fell as 3M Co. drove industrial shares lower after
cutting its profit forecast.  A gauge of technology companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index lost 1 percent, the  biggest decline  among 10 industry
groups. Japanese exporters fell as the yen rose as high as 80.54
against the dollar, compared with 81.63 at the close of stock
trading in Tokyo yesterday. A stronger yen reduces overseas
income when repatriated.  Sharp slumped 5.8 percent to 795 yen. The company cut its
profit forecast for the year ending March 2011 by 40 percent to
30 billion yen ($367 million), citing the stronger yen and
falling prices of panels.  Nintendo Profit  Advantest Corp. , the world’s No. 1 maker of memory-chip
testers, slumped 9 percent to 1,531 yen after reporting first-
half profit that missed its own estimate. Nomura Holdings Inc.
cut its rating on the stock to “reduce” from “neutral.”  Nintendo Co. , the world’s largest maker of video-game
players, fell 2.1 percent to 20,850 yen after the company posted
a 15 percent drop in second-quarter earnings and forecast its
smallest profit in six years.  “There are uncertainties about the outlook for earnings in
the second half,” said  Juichi Wako , a senior strategist at
Tokyo-based Nomura.  Today is the  peak day  for earnings reports in Japan, with
about 270 of the 1,664 companies in the Topix scheduled to
report results, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About
three companies have  exceeded profit estimates  for every two
that fell short, based on data compiled by Bloomberg from the
322 companies in the Topix that have reported quarterly results
since Oct. 7 through yesterday.  Factory Production  NGK Insulators Ltd. , which makes industrial ceramic
products, tumbled 21 percent to 1,219 yen, the biggest decline
on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, after the company cut its full-
year profit and sales forecast. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered
its recommendation to “neutral” from “buy.”  Japanese stocks fell as the Trade Ministry reported factory
output decreased 1.9 percent in September from the previous
month, when it dropped 0.5 percent. The median estimate of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 0.6 percent
decline.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has fallen 2.3 percent from a
more than two-year high on Oct. 14 as China, the world’s
fastest-growing major economy, unexpectedly raised interest
rates and said it grew at the slowest pace in a year. Stocks in
the MSCI gauge trade at 14.1 times  estimated profit  on average,
compared with 14 times for the S&P 500 and 12.2 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  In Seoul, Samsung Electronics slipped 2.5 percent to
745,000 won even as the company reported third-quarter profit
increased 17 percent to a record 4.46 trillion won ($4 billion).  LG Electronics  “The chip unit has been driving earnings in the third
quarter, but it won’t likely support profit as much in the
fourth quarter, as the drop in chip prices is accelerating,”
said  Seo Won Seok , an analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co.
“For TV sets, marketing costs are the most important factor in
the fourth quarter, and they’ve been always high then.”  LG Electronics Inc. , the world’s third-largest handset
maker, declined 2.8 percent to 99,100 won. The company posted a
second straight quarter of record losses from its main mobile-
phone business, prompting Credit Suisse Group AG to cut its
rating to “underperform” from “neutral.”  Bank of Communications, China’s fifth-largest lender,
slumped 7.8 percent to HK$8.47. The lender’s third-quarter net
income increased 24 percent to 9.18 billion yuan ($1.4 billion)
from a year before, falling short of the 9.5 billion yuan median
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  AIA Debut  China Life Insurance Co. , the nation’s biggest insurer,
slipped 3 percent to HK$33.95 after posting a 3.4 percent
increase in third-quarter profit. The results were “slightly
below expectations,” Guosen Securities Co. analysts  Shao Ziqin 
and Tong Chengdun said in an e-mailed note today.  Among stocks that rose, insurer  AIA Group Ltd.  surged 17
percent to HK$23.05 in its Hong Kong debut. The company was sold
by American International Group Inc. in a $17.8 billion initial
public offering. The stock was priced at HK$19.68.  “AIA was always going to have a great opening given it was
priced at a far cheaper valuation to peers, the strong demand
for the IPO, and the gray market prices,” said  Gavin Parry ,
managing director of Parry International Trading Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “But really it’s a prime insurance asset given its China
origins and pan-Asian reach and network.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 