-- Avanir Drug Nuedexta Wins FDA Approval for Uncontrolled Laughing, Crying
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-10-29T23:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/avanir-drug-nuedexta-wins-fda-approval-for-uncontrolled-laughing-crying.html
Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc.  won U.S.
approval for a drug that curbs bouts of uncontrolled laughing or
crying in patients with neurological disorders, regulators said.
Shares more than doubled in extended trading.  The medicine, Nuedexta, is the first approved to treat
patients with multiple sclerosis or  Lou Gehrig’s  disease who
develop symptoms known as  pseudobulbar affect  that causes loss
of emotional control, the Food and Drug Administration said in a
statement. Avanir, which has no other products on the market,
plans to begin selling the drug in the first three months of
2011, the Aliso Viejo, California, company said in a statement.  The medicine may have sales of $275 million by 2013, said
 Ritu Baral , an analyst with Canaccord Genuity in New York. She
was among four analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg with buy ratings
on the shares and an average 12-month target price of $9.23.  The approval “marks Avanir’s transition toward becoming a
commercial enterprise, ready to support the successful launch of
the first FDA-approved treatment for pseudobulbar affect,”
 Keith Katkin , president and chief executive officer of Avanir,
said in the statement.  Avanir gained $2.75, or more than 113 percent, to $5.17 at
7:04 p.m. New York time in extended  trading  on the Nasdaq Stock
Market after closing at $2.42.  “We think Avanir will conduct a strong launch of the drug
in the first half of 2011 and that it will gain good uptake by
the end of the year,” Baral said today in a telephone
interview.  Two-Drug Combination  Nuedexta is a combination of quinidine, a generic drug that
prevents heart arrhythmia, and dextromethorphan, a cough
suppressant. The combination is thought to affect the
neurotransmitter glutamate, Avanir has said.  Avanir presented results of a study at the American Academy
of Neurology’s annual meeting in Toronto in April showing that
patients reported fewer episodes of involuntary laughing and
crying after taking the medication  The FDA declined to approve the drug in 2006, citing
concerns over heart rhythm safety, said Baral. The agency’s
chief concern was whether quinidine caused QT prolongation, a
change in electrical rhythm that can increase heart attack risk,
she said.  The company then reformulated the drug with a lower dose of
quinidine and conducted new studies, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 