-- BNY Mellon Plans to Boost Japan Staff by 12% to Capture Growth in Wealth
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-29T05:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/bank-of-new-york-mellon-aims-to-boost-japan-staff-by-12-to-capture-growth.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s biggest custody bank, plans to increase employees in
Japan by about 12 percent over two years as it seeks to expand
in the Asia-Pacific region.  The bank aims to add about 30 people in its asset
management, custodian and brokerage businesses to the current
260 by the end of 2012, said  Christopher Sturdy , the Hong Kong-
based Asia-Pacific chairman of the company. The New York-based
firm had 172 staff when Sturdy took office in mid-2008, he said.  BNY Mellon, which began business in Japan 40 years ago, is
trying to tap the more than 1,400 trillion yen ($17 trillion) of
 financial assets  held by Japanese households. It is also
searching for institutional investors seeking profitable
investments after stricter regulation worldwide following the
global financial crisis.  “Japan today in Asia-Pacific is the largest market in
terms of revenues,” Sturdy, 52, said in an interview in Tokyo
today, declining to give any specific figures. “While many
people wildly get excited by China or wildly get excited by the
prospect of growth in India, I’m very excited by the prospects
in Japan, simply because the pie is so big.”  BNY Mellon, which operates in 12 countries in Asia-Pacific,
is focusing on Japan, South Korea, China, India and Australia,
Sturdy said. The bank aims to have a minimum of double-digit
growth annually from the region, he said, adding that there is
no specific numerical target.  Adding Staff  “We have been steadily adding people across this entire
region ever since I arrived here,” Sturdy said. “The growth in
our people out here really reflects the needs of the
clientele,” who are reevaluating their business in the wake of
the financial crisis, he said.  In Asia, excluding India where middle- and back-office
employees are stationed for global operations, the bank has
increased its staff to 1,113 as of Oct. 29, from 834 in June
2008, Sturdy said.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities to institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and hedge funds. BNY Mellon has $24.4 trillion
under custody and administration and $1.14 trillion in assets
under management, according to the firm.  BNY Mellon this year began offering funds to Japanese
retail investors through its first tie-up with a Japanese bank,
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. , offering tailor-made
mutual funds, Shogo Yamaguchi, president of BNY Mellon Asset
Management Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, said in the same interview.  The firm is offering a global high-yield bond fund
denominated in Australian dollars, which currently has about
$350 million in assets, he said.  BNY Mellon earlier this month reported higher third-quarter
profit as it relied on takeovers to offset the impact of near-
zero interest rates. Net income at BNY Mellon increased to $622
million, or 51 cents a share, from a loss of $2.46 billion, or
$2.05, a year earlier, the bank said on Oct. 19.  The bank is not looking for takeover opportunities in Asia
at the moment, Sturdy said. The region has enough growth
potential without the need for acquisitions now, though it may
consider them if the opportunity arises, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  