-- Indonesia to Consider Capital Controls to Curb Rupiah Rally, Warjiyo Says
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2010-10-29T10:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/bank-indonesia-prepares-options-for-capital-controls-as-rupiah-appreciates.html
Indonesia’s central bank is
assembling options including a longer withholding period for
foreign purchases of central bank bills if needed to address any
capital inflows that risk destabilizing the nation’s economy.  Scenarios being studied include extending the holding period
for central bank notes, or SBI to three months from one,  Perry Warjiyo , director for monetary policy at  Bank Indonesia , said
today in Jakarta. Warjiyo reiterated the central bank’s view
that no further limits on capital flows are currently needed.  “We can still manage with intervention -- foreign-reserves
accumulation,” for the time being, Warjiyo said, referring to
sales of rupiah for other currencies. “Options are always
open” for further steps, he said, adding that that doesn’t
imply “something that we will surely do.”  Indonesia’s preparatory planning reflects concern across
the region about the consequences of a wave of capital into
emerging Asia that amounts to $2 billion a day, according to DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. estimates. Countries from Brazil to South
Korea have sought to curb currency gains as near-zero interest
rates in the U.S. and Japan spur funds to seek higher returns in
emerging markets.  The rupiah has risen 5.1 percent against the dollar this
year as investors poured money into an economy where the
 benchmark interest rate  is 6.5 percent.  Brazil Oct. 18 raised the tax on foreign investments in
fixed-income securities to curb gains in the real.  Term Deposits  Bank Indonesia introduced the one-month term deposit in
July and the two-month deposit in October. The deposits have
absorbed 52 trillion rupiah ($5.8 billion) of liquidity as of
the third week of October,  Dyah Nastiti Makhijani , a spokeswoman
at the central bank said Oct. 19.  “BI is preparing the necessary steps to minimize the
negative impact of global excess liquidity,” Deputy Governor
 Budi Mulya  said today in a mobile-phone text message, adding the
holding-period extension and term deposits are among possible
steps being considered.  Any measures will be within “the corridor of free capital
mobility,” he said.  The Financial Times reported earlier that the central bank
is open to considering an extension of the one-month holding
period for SBI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  