-- Banks May Face Higher Fees for State Guarantees Under EU Plan
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-10-29T13:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/banks-may-face-higher-fees-for-state-guarantees-under-eu-plan.html
Banks may face higher fees for state
guarantees on their borrowings next year as European Union
regulators seek to wean lenders off the government aid that
helped keep them alive in the wake of the credit crunch.  The fees banks are currently paying “could be maintained
for the next six months,” Nicola Pesaresi, who heads the
 European Commission ’s state aid policy department, told a legal
conference in Trier, Germany today. After that “we will see on
the basis of the evidence whether any further price increase or
any other adjustment is necessary.”  Banks in the 27-nation EU used nearly a trillion euros
($1.4 trillion) of guarantees between 2007 and the end of 2009,
according to commission  data . The EU’s antitrust agency, which
checks whether subsidies distort competition in the region,
granted approval for the measures as part of its response to the
biggest financial crisis since the Great Depression.  The guarantees help lenders obtain funding, providing a
backstop for creditors and bondholders. Governments set
the fees, which can’t fall below a minimum level determined by
the EU’s executive arm.  Six Irish lenders including Allied Irish Banks Plc and
Anglo Irish Bank Plc are covered by a state guarantee until the
end of the year. The Irish government is considering extending
it into 2011, subject to EU approval, two people with knowledge
of the matter said Oct. 22. Ireland had received 1.03 billion
euros of guarantee fees up to the end of August, according to
the country’s Finance Ministry.  German Banks  In Germany, Commerzbank AG, Aareal Bank AG and IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG are among several banks still using guarantees.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said on Oct. 5
that he will gradually tighten state aid conditions for bailed-
out banks when he extends bank aid rules due to expire at the
end of 2010.  Almunia will also demand that all banks using impaired-
asset programs next year must submit restructuring plans to show
how they plan to become viable without state help, Pesaresi
said. The commission can force banks that have received aid to
sell off units to compensate for any competitive advantage they
gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 