-- Baoshan Steel Forecasts Highest Annual Profit in Three Years,$1.8 Billion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T12:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/baoshan-steel-forecasts-highest-annual-profit-in-three-years-1-8-billion.html
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , China’s
biggest publicly traded steelmaker, may post its highest profit
in at least three years on rising demand from carmakers.  Net income this year may surge 110 percent to 130 percent
from last year, the company said today in a statement, without
elaborating. That would take 2010 profit to between 12.2 billion
yuan ($1.8 billion) and 13.4 billion yuan. Shanghai-based
Baoshan Steel reported a profit of 5.82 billion yuan last year
and 12.7 billion yuan in 2007.  Baoshan Steel, which controls half the local market for
automotive steel, is running plants at full capacity as vehicle
sales in China surged 48 percent in the first half. Car sales,
which gained 19 percent last month, may reach 17 million units
this year, according to government estimates.  “Domestic steel demand rebounded significantly in 2010
compared with 2009,” Baoshan Steel said in the statement.  Baoshan Steel  declined 1.7 percent to close at 7.17 yuan
today in Shanghai, compared with a 0.5 percent drop in the
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index. The stock has declined 26
percent this year.  Third-quarter net income at Baoshan Steel fell 16 percent
to 2.55 billion yuan, the smallest quarterly profit this year,
as a government crackdown on real-estate speculations curbed
demand and high prices of raw materials eroded margins.  Full Order Book  China’s  gross domestic product  grew 9.6 percent in the
third quarter, the smallest gain this year. Chinese mills face a
“difficult” second half,  Xu Lejiang , chairman of parent
Baosteel Group Corp., said on May 9. Baoshan kept September
prices for its benchmark products unchanged after cutting them
in July and August.  “The third quarter was the worst for Chinese steelmakers
this year,” said  Li Xiaolu , an analyst with Capital Securities
Corp., who has a “buy” rating for Baoshan shares. “Baoshan
will report a better profit this quarter as the company’s order
book for auto-sheets is full for November and we think it will
be the same in December.”  China’s  steel output  dropped to 47.95 million metric tons
in September, the lowest level this year, as provinces including
Hebei, Shandong and Zhejiang started restricting power to mills
to meet energy-consumption targets. The power cuts may trim
steel supply by 9.6 percent through the rest of this year,
researcher Mysteel.com said Sept. 9.  Production cuts helped bolster steel prices.  Chinese prices 
for hot-rolled coil, a benchmark product, have gained 9.8
percent since July 15, according to Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co.  “The power supply cuts, targeting mainly smaller mills,
will benefit bigger rivals,” Li said.  -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Indranil Ghosh ,  Ben Richardson .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 