-- Bilfinger Berger Appoints Ex-Hesse Premier Koch as Chief Executive Officer
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-10-29T11:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/bilfinger-berger-falls-as-ex-hesse-premier-koch-appointed-company-s-ceo.html
Bilfinger Berger SE , Germany’s
second-largest builder, named  Roland Koch  chief executive
officer, tapping the former prime minister of the state of Hesse
two months after he abruptly left politics.  Koch, who led the western German state for 11 years, will
join the management board on March 1 and become CEO on July 1,
the Mannheim-based company said today. He’ll replace  Herbert Bodner , who will retire after heading the company for 12 years.  “Bilfinger Berger is a primary address of the German
economy and at the same time one of the most exciting companies
that I know,” Koch, 52, said in a statement. “I very much look
forward to my future responsibility.”  Koch’s unexpected resignation in May as premier of Hesse,
home to the financial capital Frankfurt and the European Central
Bank, deprived Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party of one of its
heavyweights. At Bilfinger, he may seek to use his political
ties to win more government contracts as the construction
industry pushes for public-private partnerships.  As one of the highest-ranking officials in the CDU, Koch
was often considered a candidate for a minister post in the
federal government or even a chancellor hopeful. Koch often took
hard-line positions within the CDU leadership, such as a law-
and-order re-election campaign in 2007 that focused on crimes by
immigrant youths and nearly cost him his office.  Bilfinger Berger said in August it expects net income to
jump at least 79 percent this year after it won orders such as
service contracts from British oil and gas producers and
building-management work from German financial institutions.
Germany’s largest construction company is Hochtief AG.  Bilfinger Berger declined as much as 2.6 euros, or 4.8
percent, to 51.64 euros, sharpest drop in four months, in
Frankfurt. The stock had been little changed in value this year
before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  