-- U.S. Must Consider Selling Assets to Bolster Economy, Slim Says
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-10-29T15:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/billionaire-slim-says-u-s-must-consider-selling-assets-to-bolster-economy.html
The U.S. government needs to
consider selling assets to boost the economy and reduce the
deficit, Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim  said today.  “Most aggressive monetary and fiscal policies are not
enough,” Slim said at the George Washington University Global
Forum in New York City. “They are temporary measures.”  Slim, ranked the world’s richest man by Forbes magazine,
controls Telefonos de  Mexico  SAB, the nation’s largest landline
phone company, and is an investor in the New York Times Co. The
global financial crisis is a sign that governments must rein in
debt, Slim said.  The Times is the “best brand, the best newspaper,” and
has options to publish in an electronic format, he said.  Fiscal and monetary policies are only “temporary
medicine” and won’t help economies return to growth, he said.
They are “tools” not goals, he said.  U.S. policy makers are considering a round of asset
purchases after buying $1.7 trillion in debt from December 2008
to March. The Federal Reserve meets Nov. 2-3 to consider steps
to boost an economy growing too slowly and prevent inflation,
which remains below its longer-term projections, from cooling
even more. Growth in the 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent range is
consistent with keeping the jobless rate stable, according to
policy makers’ latest forecasts.  Slim, 70, said charitable efforts by billionaires  Bill Gates  and  Warren Buffett  are “well intentioned” but may not
solve problems in third world countries. Gates and Buffett have
pledged to donate the bulk of their wealth to charity.  Nations need infrastructure and telecommunications, not
just charity, he said.  “It’s important to put up your talent, not just your
money,” Slim said.  Slim proposed a “third world war against poverty” and
said his foundation is trying to cut the mortality rate of
children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  