-- BoCom Drops Most in Two Years as Net Missed Estimate
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T08:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/bocom-drops-most-since-2009-as-third-quarter-net-missed-estimate.html
Bank of Communications Ltd.  fell the
most in two years in  Hong Kong  trading after profit growth at
 China ’s fifth-largest lender missed analysts’ estimates in the
third quarter on charges for bad loans.  The  stock  declined as much as 7.9 percent, the biggest drop
since Oct. 27, 2008, and closed 7.8 percent lower at HK$8.47.
The Shanghai-based lender, also known as BoCom, said yesterday
net income rose 24 percent in the third quarter to 9.18 billion
yuan ($1.4 billion), missing the 9.5 billion yuan median
 estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “So far, this is the only H-share bank reporting lower-
than-expected third-quarter results,” Victor Wang and Rachel Li,
Hong Kong-based analysts at  Macquarie Research , wrote in a note
today. “BoCom could potentially become marginalized given
investors now have eight China banks to choose from and some
peers provide better profitability.”  Bigger rivals Bank of China Ltd. and  Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd . on Oct. 27 reported about 30 percent earnings growth,
trumping analysts’ estimates, as lending expanded 13 percent.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s largest
lender by market value, said yesterday profit climbed 27 percent
to 42.6 billion  yuan , in line with estimates.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch today downgraded BoCom to
“underperform” from “buy” on “increasing asset quality
concerns and weak margin outlook,” analysts led by Winnie Wu
wrote in a note.  BoCom’s outstanding amount of impaired loans rose 1.5
billion yuan from the beginning of the year to 26.5 billion yuan,
according to yesterday’s statement.  The bank set aside 4.6 billion yuan of provisions against
soured debt in the past three months, compared with 2.5 billion
yuan a year earlier.  “Provisions expense and non-performing loans have
increased a lot,” said Ivan Li, deputy head of Hong Kong
research at Kim Eng Securities Hong Kong Ltd. BoCom’s “asset
quality trend is at odds with its peers.”  --Luo Jun, with assistance from Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong.
Editors: Russell Ward, Douglas Wong  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  