-- BOE May Keep Asset Purchases on Hold as Data Undermines Call for More Aid
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-29T12:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/boe-may-keep-asset-purchases-on-hold-as-data-undermines-call-for-more-aid.html
The Bank of England will probably
keep its asset-purchase program at 200 billion pounds ($319
billion) next week after  faster-than-expected  economic growth in
the third quarter undermined calls for more stimulus.  Policy makers will leave the value of their quantitative-
easing plan, with which they buy bonds to inject cash into the
economy, unchanged on Nov. 4, all but two of 40 economists
forecast in a  Bloomberg News survey . The bank will also keep its
benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent, all 60
economists in a separate survey said.  Britain is facing the biggest budget squeeze since World
War II, and minutes of the central bank’s last meeting showed
officials were moving toward expanding stimulus. Still, the
third quarter growth of 0.8 percent, twice the pace economists
had forecast, means the bank is more likely to wait until 2011,
Capital Economics Ltd. economist  Vicky Redwood  said.  “It had been looking like it would be a very close
meeting, but the gross-domestic-product figures mean the
probability of them doing more in November has fallen,” London-
based Redwood, who is also a former Bank of England official,
said in a telephone interview today. “All the arguments for
more QE in the longer term still stand. The recovery is still
based on fairly unsustainable foundations and the fiscal squeeze
is yet to start.”  The Bank of England is scheduled to announce its decision
at 12 p.m. on Nov. 4 in London. The U.S. Federal Reserve meets
Nov. 2-3, when policy makers will also consider steps to boost
their economy.  The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee’s Oct. 7 meeting ended
in the first three-way split in almost a year after  Adam Posen 
advocated an expansion of stimulus and  Andrew Sentance  called
for an interest-rate rise. While the bank left its asset-
purchase plan and key rate unchanged at that meeting, “some of
the members felt the likelihood that further monetary stimulus”
would be needed “had increased,” the minutes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  