-- Bookmaker Windfall in College Football Assured by Top Teams' Weekly Upsets
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-10-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/bookmaker-windfall-in-college-football-assured-by-top-teams-weekly-upsets.html
Sports books stand to profit from a
college football season where No. 1 teams were beaten three
weeks in a row because bettors tend to wager on favorites.  The University of Oklahoma (6-1), which led the initial Bowl
Championship Series rankings, lost last weekend to Missouri (7-
0); Ohio State and Alabama (both 7-1), who were atop the
Associated Press polls the previous weeks, also were toppled.  Nevada sports books, which won an average of $18 million in
college football wagers over the past 10 years, might see an
increase of as much as 22 percent this year because college
football fans are more likely to wager when underdogs are
winning. Casual bettors typically like favorites, so casinos
win, said  Jeff Sherman , assistant general manager for the  Hilton
sports book .  “There is always more action on teams who are highly
ranked, because people pay attention to what the media is saying
about those teams,” Sherman said in a telephone interview.
“Any time one of those teams goes down, it obviously bodes well
for the books.”  The Nevada Gaming Commission reports that the state’s
sports books have earned an average of $52 million each fiscal
year on college and professional football wagers over the past
decade. College football accounts for 35 percent of that total,
about $18 million a year, according to RJ Bell, founder of  Las
Vegas-based Pregame.com , a handicapping information website; and
Adam Young, head oddsmaker for Bodog.com, a gambling website.  Bell said the additional winnings the upsets generate for
the books would push that to about $22 million.  Bettors Like Favorites  For most games, sports books offer odds for both teams to
win outright as well as set a point spread, aimed at getting the
same amount of money on each team. Casual bettors, who make up
about 90 percent of the Hilton’s clientele, according to
Sherman, tend to bet favorites because those are the teams with
the most national interest.  Bookmakers tend to make money even when the underdog covers
the spread and doesn’t win, because more often than not, there
is more money on the favorite, Bell said.  “If you bet an underdog you are also accepting that you
are betting the worse team,” Bell said in a telephone
interview. “Instinctually that is not an attractive proposition
for many people.”  The upsets have not made bettors lose faith in heavy
favorites nor their ability to pick winners. The Hilton has had
no drop in volume following this season’s major upsets, Sherman
said.  “People just adjust to what they see,” he said. “Bettors
may lose confidence in a certain team, but they will reposition
their money on other games.”  Open Offenses  Limits on scholarships and high-scoring offenses have
created an era of increased parity in college football, said
 Mike Seba , senior oddsmaker for  Las Vegas Sports Consultants
Inc.  Over the past four weeks, for example, Antigua-based
Bodog.com has featured four different favorites in its BCS
championship futures bet -- Alabama, Ohio State, Oklahoma and
now Oregon.  “In years past there has generally been a clear No. 1 with
an easy schedule,” Young said. “This year teams have more
tough games, and as a result there are more teams potentially
playing for a BCS championship.”  The upsets at the top of the rankings have attracted money
to the sports books that might not ordinarily be wagered. Young
said Bodog has seen increased volume on its BCS championship
futures bet, and wagers spread across a larger number of teams.
He wouldn’t be specific.  “Unbiased bettors now have a wide variety of valid
options, so a lot of different contenders are getting increased
action,” Bell said. “Secondly, each of these contenders has a
rabid fan base that will also back that team.”  More Contenders  The Hilton has seen distinct changes in the betting
landscape following this month’s upsets. These changes,
including more title contenders, work in the bookmakers’ favor.  “Earlier this year there was the perception that Alabama
and Ohio State had some distance between other teams, but now it
is much more open,” Sherman said. “That favors the casinos
because if we can increase our handle (total amount wagered) and
spread the money out across a number of different teams, it
increases our pool.”  Sherman and Young both said the college football season has
been good to bookmakers so far, but wouldn’t be specific on how
profitable the upsets are for their books.  The University of Oregon (7-0) is No. 1 in the AP writers
poll, and a 7-4 favorite to win the national title, according to
the Hilton. Auburn University (8-0) leads the BCS rankings and
is 7-2 to win the title, according to Bodog. Oregon is a
touchdown favorite on the road against the University of
Southern California (5-2) tomorrow. Auburn also is a touchdown
favorite on the road over the University of Mississippi (3-4).  “This is a tough matchup for Oregon, but it is already our
biggest bet game of the week, and everyone is taking Oregon,”
Young said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 