-- Brazil Libra Field May Hold 16 Billion Barrels of Oil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-10-29T17:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/brazil-s-libra-oil-field-may-be-americas-top-find-in-34-years.html
Brazil said the government’s Libra
field may hold “gigantic” reserves of as much as 15 billion
barrels, almost twice initial estimates, which would make it the
biggest discovery in the Americas in more than three decades.  Oil was found below a layer of salt at the first
exploration well at the government’s field, according to an
e-mail sent today by the national petroleum regulator, known
as ANP. Brazil drilled to a depth of 5,410 meters (17,750 feet)
at the well and may reach 6,500 meters by December, the ANP said.  A deposit of 15 billion barrels would be almost twice the
size of state-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s nearby Tupi
field, would eclipse Brazil’s total current reserve base and 
also be the biggest find in the Americas since Mexico discovered
Cantarell in 1976. Deepwater fields in Brazil’s so-called pre-
salt region have yielded the largest discoveries outside the 
Middle East in the past decade, said  Julius Walker , an oil
analyst at the Paris-based International Energy Agency.  “Nobody is making discoveries like these anywhere at the
moment,” Walker said in a telephone interview today. It “makes
deepwater Brazil the most exciting new area.”  Haroldo Lima , the head of the ANP, said yesterday that the
field may have 7.9 billion to 16 billion barrels, according to
the agency’s press office. The ANP said today that the field may
hold between 3.7 billion to 15 billion barrels and that 7.9
billion barrels is the most likely estimate.  Brazil currently has proven reserves of about 14 billion
barrels, the ANP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jessica Brice  in Sao Paulo at 
jbrice1@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  