-- Brazil Says Offshore Oil Field May be Americas' Biggest Find in 34 Years
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-10-29T19:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/brazil-libra-oil-field-holds-up-to-15-billion-barrels-update1-.html
Brazil said its Libra field may hold
“gigantic” reserves of as much as 15 billion barrels, almost
twice initial estimates, which would make it the biggest
discovery in the Americas in more than three decades.  Oil was found below a layer of salt at the first
exploration well at the government’s field, according to an e-
mail sent today by the national petroleum regulator, known as
 ANP . Brazil drilled to a depth of 5,410 meters (3.4 miles) at
the well and may reach 6,500 meters by December, the ANP said.  A deposit of 15 billion barrels would be almost twice the
size of state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ’s nearby Tupi
field, would eclipse Brazil’s total current reserve base and
also be the biggest find in the Americas since Mexico discovered
Cantarell in 1976. Deepwater fields in Brazil’s so-called pre-
salt region have yielded the largest discoveries outside the
Middle East in the past decade, said  Julius Walker , an oil
analyst at the Paris-based International Energy Agency.  “Nobody is making discoveries like these anywhere at the
moment,” Walker said in a telephone interview today. It “makes
deepwater Brazil the most exciting new area.”  The ANP said today that the field may hold between 3.7
billion to 15 billion barrels and that 7.9 billion barrels is
the most likely estimate.  Libra and Tupi  Libra and Tupi, both in Brazil’s Santos Basin, are located
in a region known as the pre-salt, which runs 800 kilometers
(500 miles) off the coast, holding oil deposits beneath a layer
of salt resting as deep as 3,000 meters beneath the ocean
surface and another 5,000 meters below the seabed.  Petrobras, which will operate all new concessions in the
pre-salt under proposed regulation, raised about $70 billion
last month in the world’s biggest share sale to help fund its
$224 billion, five-year investment plan, the oil industry’s
largest. The Rio de Janeiro-based company said Sept. 1 it agreed
to pay $42.5 billion in new stock for 5 billion barrels of
undeveloped government reserves.  “Petrobras is blessed because it’s sitting on an amazing
piece of real estate,”  Michael Purves , Chief Market Strategist
at BGC Partners LP, said in a telephone interview from New York.
“They have a pre-emptive position to acquire any future
reserves off the coast of Brazil.”  Spain’s Repsol YPF SA also has stakes in deepwater blocks
in the Santos Basin.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA , the
Brazilian oil company controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , is
exploring shallow waters of the basin.  ‘Positive for Everybody’  The Libra discovery is “positive for everybody operating
down there,”  Eric Conrads , who helps manage about $1 billion in
emerging market funds at ING Investment Management in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “That’s positive for Petrobras,
that’s positive for Repsol, that’s positive for OGX.”  Petrobras rose 3 centavos, or 0.1 percent, to 26.29 reais
in Sao Paulo trading at 2:58 p.m. New York time. The stock has
plunged 28 percent this year through yesterday, while OGX has
gained 27 percent and Repsol rose 5.6 percent.  The Brazilian state-run company may not have the capacity
to develop and operate all the pre-salt fields in its business
plan, in addition to government reserves such as Libra,  Andres Kikuchi , an analyst at Sao Paulo-based Link Investimentos, said
in a telephone interview. It will also need to increase debt “a
lot” over the next three years to develop the fields, he said.
Developing the 5 billion barrels bought from the government will
cost about $10 billion to $15 billion, he said.  Government Control  The ANP has said that Brazil’s government plans to keep
control of Libra as the South American nation tightens its grip
on its reserves. Pre-Sal Petroleo SA, a new state oil company,
will own at least 40 percent of Libra,  Magda Chambriard , an ANP
director, said Sept. 15 in an interview. That’s on top of a
minimum 30 percent stake to be held by Petrobras, she said.  Haroldo Lima , the head of the ANP, said yesterday that the
field may have 7.9 billion to 16 billion barrels, according to
the agency’s press office.  Brazil currently has proven reserves of about 14 billion
barrels, the ANP said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  