-- Bristol-Myers, Gilead Seek AIDS Cocktail Success in Hepatitis C
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-10-29T20:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/bristol-myers-gilead-seek-aids-cocktail-success-in-hepatitis-c.html
Bristol-Myers   Squibb Co.  and  Gilead
Sciences   Inc. , makers of the top-selling combination pills for
AIDS, are trying to duplicate their success to combat another
evasive virus, hepatitis C.  The companies are among about a dozen that are developing
drug cocktails more effective, less toxic and easier to take
than current therapy. Hints of which blends may work will emerge
next week, in research presented at a Boston meeting of the
 American Association for the Study of Liver Disease .  The pill combinations are designed to cure the liver-
destroying  hepatitis C  virus without using interferon, a
decades-old shot that causes a year of flu-like symptoms and
works in only half of patients. While the virus outsmarted new
mixtures in preliminary tests, study continues because the first
blends to succeed will dominate a market that, according to
Decision Resources Inc., may total $8 billion a year by 2014.  “We are trying to duplicate the paradigm that
revolutionized HIV therapy well over a decade ago, and apply
those lessons learned to hepatitis C,” said  Ira Jacobson ,
medical director of the  Center for the Study of Hepatitis C , a
New York-based program of Rockefeller University, Weill Cornell
Medical College, and New York-Presbyterian Hospital. “My belief
is if we suppress it profoundly enough, the virus will
eventually wither away and be eradicated in the liver.”  The  shares  of New York-based Bristol-Myers decreased 9
cents to $26.90 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Gilead, of Foster City, California, fell 19 cents to
$39.67 in Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading .  200 Million People  About 200 million people worldwide have hepatitis C, an
 analysis  at Dartmouth Medical School in Hanover, New Hampshire,
found. The disease often persists as a chronic condition that
causes nausea, weakness and exhaustion as it destroys the liver
over the course of years or decades.  Interferon, the standard of care when paired with the
generic drug ribavirin to increase potency, works by boosting
the immune system. Roche Holding AG of Basel, Switzerland sells
a version of interferon under the brand name Pegasys, while
Merck & Co. of Whitehouse Station, New Jersey sells a form
called PegIntron.  Two new hepatitis C options that may be introduced next
year are telaprevir, from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and New Brunswick, New Jersey-based Johnson
& Johnson, and boceprevir, from Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-
based Merck & Co. The drugs are similar to the family of AIDS
medicines called protease inhibitors that prevent viruses from
replicating. Both are used with interferon and ribavirin.  $3 Billion  The combinations are expected to generate more than $3
billion in sales annually by 2013, with telaprevir accounting
for $2.6 billion, said  Howard Liang , an analyst at Leerink Swann
& Co. in Boston, in a telephone interview.  The new antiviral combinations are oral drugs, not
injections, and may have the potential to cure patients who
haven’t benefitted from the older products, Liang said.  “Both clinicians and patients would prefer drugs that lack
the side effects of interferon and ribavirin,” said  Alexandra Makarova , an analyst at Decision Resources, a research company
in Burlington, Massachusetts, in a telephone interview. “If the
combination of direct antivirals will allow doctors to exclude
interferon and ribavirin, it could spoil the party for those
regimens.”  Optimal Combination  Research hasn’t identified the optimal oral combination for
 hepatitis C . Initial reports show treatment with just one pill
or low-dose combinations aren’t enough to keep the virus in
check, and investigators are building more, and more-powerful,
combinations. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which
initially rejected efforts to study treatments without
interferon and ribavirin, has now let trials begin.  The ability to create liver cells from stem cells, breed
mice that are better models for  hepatitis C , and isolate cells
from human livers infected with the virus are making it easier
to identify and pull together the best cocktails before they are
tested in humans, said Michael Charlton, director of the liver
transplant program at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.  “The door may be opening to more innovative combinations
of oral therapies,” said Charlton, who sees a new patient every
30 minutes, on average, when working in Minneapolis. “There is
still a tremendous second and third wave of drug combinations
that are being explored,” he said in a telephone interview.  Second-Stage Tests  Bristol-Myers will present results at the Boston meeting
from second-stage tests combining an experimental protease
inhibitor, similar to those used for AIDS, with a pill from new
family of virus-fighting medicines. The two ingredients, called
BMS-790052 and BMS-650032 stopped working in as little as three
weeks. Adding interferon and ribavirin to the two-drug cocktail
suppressed the virus for as long as three months.  Gilead will report outcomes from a monthlong study of its
experimental protease inhibitor, GS-9256, with a second new
drug, GS-9190, which is in a different family of medicines.  Adding ribavirin alone delayed or reduced the breakthrough
virus, the study found. Vertex stopped a low-dose combination of
telaprevir and its experimental drug VX-222 after the virus
broke through during the first month of treatment. A higher-dose
combination is undergoing tests.  The combination approach is being pursued by biotechnology
companies, among them Pharmasset Inc. of Princeton, New Jersey;
Medivir AB of Huddinge, Sweden; Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. of
Cambridge, Massachusetts; and Inhibitex Inc. of Alpharetta,
Georgia.  Merck Developments  Merck is developing several oral hepatitis C drugs
internally, while looking for outsiders to become partners on
its compounds, said Lisa Pedicone, global director of scientific
affairs for the company’s hepatitis C products.  A combination of two oral drugs from Roche and Pharmasset
was able to keep the virus in check during an initial 13-day
study. The combination includes a protease inhibitor and another
medicine polymerase inhibitor.  “We need to be bringing the people who have all these
agents together to sit down at the same table,” Charlton said.
“It takes someone with deep resources to develop a multidrug
cocktail.”  Preliminary data suggest that a new family of medicines
known as nucleoside-based polymerase inhibitors, which block an
enzyme the virus needs to thrive, may be a key player in the
drug combinations, Leerink’s Liang said. Pharmasset and Idenix
are among the few companies working with those drugs, making
them desirable partners or potential takeover targets, he said.  ‘Early Days’  “This is like the early days of HIV,” said Stuart Ray,
director of the infectious-diseases fellowship training program
at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore.
“We are trying to weigh the safety of getting these drugs when
they are first available, against the risk of waiting when we
know liver disease is likely to be progressing in all of our
patients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  