-- British Airways Posts First Profit in Two Years on Rising Fares
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-29T09:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/british-airways-posts-first-profit-in-two-years-as-travel-demand-increases.html
British Airways Plc  posted a first
profit in two years as surging sales of business tickets allowed
it to ramp up fares. Europe’s third-largest carrier said its
outlook depends on an economic environment that remains unclear.  Net income  in the second quarter ended Sept. 30 was 229
million pounds ($365 million), compared with a 111 million-pound
year-earlier loss. Sales rose 18 percent to 2.51 billion pounds.  British Airways, which last posted a profit for the quarter
ended June 2008, shortly before the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., slashed capacity as the recession hurt bookings.
That’s given it control over pricing as traffic returns, and
yields -- a measure of fares -- jumped 20 percent in the three
months, Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said today.  “This is a cyclical recovery par excellence, driven by a
phenomenal growth in yields,” said  Douglas McNeill , an analyst
at Charles Stanley in London, where British Airways is based.
“The question now is how long that can be sustained. Capacity is
going to grow and that will limit further price improvements.”  British Airways shares, up 50 percent this year before
today, were trading down 1.9 percent at 275.3 pence as of 10:51
a.m. in London, valuing the company at 3.18 billion pounds.  Iberia Profitable  McNeill said he has a “sell” rating on the stock because
of its gains, the biggest in the eight-company Bloomberg EMEA
Airlines Index after Spain’s  Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA ,
with which British Airways is merging. Iberia today posted
quarterly net income of 74 million euros ($103 million), versus
a 16 million-euros loss in 2009. The shares fell 1.4 percent.  Air France-KLM Group and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s
biggest carriers, both raised earnings forecasts this week as
airlines across the region benefit from the pick-up in travel.
Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa reported a 17-fold increase in
nine-month net income to 524 million euros.  British Airways didn’t comment today on its earnings target
of breaking even on a pretax basis this fiscal year, and said
that “while positive, the economic environment continues to be
subject to uncertainty,” and that it remains focused on costs.  “If you run an airline and you look at consumer confidence
you have to be cautious,” said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at
Panmure Gordon in London with a “hold” rating on the stock.
“Business travel is the big factor, and British Airways has
been seeing a recovery in the premium cabin for months now.”  Heathrow Flights  CEO Walsh said that capacity control is boosting margins as
airlines show “a lot more discipline,” and that there’s more
upside to come from long-haul and short-routes, with the
recovery in European traffic “much stronger” than expected.  British Airways may pare shorter flights at London Heathrow
airport to build up the more lucrative inter-continental
network, while adding more European services at the U.K.
capital’s City terminal, which has exceeded traffic forecasts.  Premium travel rose 9.1 percent worldwide in August, the
International Air Transport Association said on Oct. 14. Demand
in the segment is about 17 percent higher than at its low point
in 2009, according to the trade body.  Yields will continue to show year-on-year gains and aren’t
yet back to their highest previous levels as sales of the most
costly fully flexible tickets continue to lag, Chief Financial
Officer  Keith Williams  said on a conference call. A capacity
increase of 4 to 5 percent is planned for next summer, he said.  Ahead of Estimates  First-half net income amounted to 107 million pounds, or
7.9 pence a share, compared with a loss of 217 million pounds,
or 18.8 pence, a year earlier, British Airways said in its
statement today. Sales rose 8.4 percent to 4.45 billion pounds.  Analysts had predicted a six-month profit of 41.5 million
pounds, according the average of seven estimates.  The return to profit comes after British Airways suffered a
425 million-pound loss in the year through March as the impact
of the slump was compounded by a harsh winter and a series of
strikes involving its 12,000 cabin crew. Losses continued into
the current fiscal year as a cloud of volcanic ash from Iceland
shut European airspace and further walkouts grounded flights.  Walsh, 49, has made a proposal to resolve the 20-month
dispute over staffing levels and pay which the Unite union will
recommend that flight attendants accept. A “no” vote would lead
to a new strike ballot and possible disruption over Christmas.  Lower Costs  Walsh is also hiring new crew members on less lucrative
contracts, the first of whom will begin work next week.  Operating costs were reduced by 1.5 percent in the half,
with the fuel bill up 2.4 percent and non-fuel expenses down 3.1
percent. British Airways is hedged on 30 percent of its kerosene
needs for fiscal 2012, while a hike in U.K. departure tax will
increase its contribution by 100 million pounds, Williams said.  Today’s results are the last before British Airways merges
with Madrid-based Iberia to form International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA. The combination of carriers with market
values totaling $9.3 billon is scheduled to be completed in
January after  shareholder  votes next month.  Walsh, who will lead the enlarged group, said last month
that British Airways and Iberia are already working to identify
further takeover candidates even before their deal is complete.  The CEO has also deepened ties earlier with AMR Corp.’s
American Airlines in a trans-Atlantic venture that began Oct. 6
and which will give the carriers control of almost 50 percent of
U.S. flights at London Heathrow, Europe’s busiest hub.  Walsh said today he’s “very pleased” with the alliance’s
performance so far, with 80,000 tickets sold as of Oct. 25
compared with fewer than 35,000 a year earlier, and that the
business presents an opportunity “greater than first believed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  