-- Brookfield Office Third-Quarter Earnings Climb on Higher Building Income
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-10-29T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/brookfield-quarterly-earnings-rise-on-building-income-update1-.html
Brookfield Office Properties, owner
of  lower Manhattan’s  World Financial Center, said third-quarter
earnings excluding items climbed as income from its commercial
buildings increased.  Funds from operations attributable to common shareholders
rose to $159 million, or 32 cents a share, from $122 million, or
28 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based company said in a
statement today. It was projected to have FFO of 30 cents, the
average estimate of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg  survey .  Brookfield, which changed its name in July from Brookfield
Properties Inc., is in the midst of becoming a “pure-play”
global office landlord. It bought a stake in a portfolio of
Australian office buildings in September from its parent
company, Toronto-based Brookfield Asset Management Inc., and it
is working on separating from its housing operation by combining
it with another Brookfield Asset unit.  The changes “should result in more transparent performance
and growth creating meaningful value for our shareholders,”
Chief Executive Officer Richard “Ric” Clark said in the
statement.  Net operating income from commercial operations rose 2
percent to $175 million, according to the report. Operating
income from residential operations jumped 52 percent to $32
million. Interest and other income tripled to $30 million.  ‘A Flurry’  “Brookfield has undergone a flurry of corporate actions,”
 Andrew Rosivach , an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote
in an Oct. 25 report. “After this series of transactions
closes, we believe the focus for Brookfield will shift from deal
flow to operating performance.”  Rosivach has a “neutral”  rating  on the company.  Brookfield agreed during the quarter to sell its
residential land division for about $1.2 billion. The
combination with Brookfield Asset’s Brookfield Homes Corp. will
be called Brookfield Residential Properties Inc. The deal should
close in January, the company said.  The company leased 1.1 million square feet (102,000 square
meters) in the quarter at net rents averaging $25 a square foot,
9 percent above the expiring rents on those spaces. Brookfield
has interests in about 75 million square feet in New York,
Washington, Houston, Los Angeles, Toronto, Calgary, Ottawa and
Australia. The Australian portfolio added buildings in Sydney,
Perth and Melbourne, including the 56-story Ernst & Young Centre
in Sydney.  Occupancy was 95.1 percent, up from 95 percent a year ago.  Financial Center  Brookfield gets about 26 percent of its operating income
from lower Manhattan, according to the report. The company is
awaiting word from Bank of America Corp. on its intentions for
the 4.6 million square feet of space it has at the 8 million-
square-foot World Financial Center, which the bank gained when
it bought Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2009. Leases on that space
expire in 2013.  Four World Financial Center, which Bank of America co-owns
via the purchase, is Merrill’s former headquarters. The property
faces competition from the World Trade Center, which is being
rebuilt across the street.  Shares rose 3 cents to $17.55 at 10:28 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock is up 45 percent
this year through yesterday, compared with a 19 percent increase
in the 76-member  Dow Jones U.S. Real Estate Index .  Brookfield announced third-quarter results before the start
of regular U.S. trading.  Funds from operations exclude depreciation and other items.
The cash-flow measure, used by real estate investment trusts,
doesn’t conform to generally accepted accounting principles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 