-- Brookfield Sees `Good Traction' on Expiring Merrill Space in New York
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-10-29T20:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/brookfield-sees-good-traction-on-expiring-world-financial-center-space.html
Brookfield Office Properties said it
is in advanced leasing talks on about 800,000 square feet of
space at lower  Manhattan’s  World Financial Center, where Bank of
America Corp. has 4.6 million square feet expiring in 2013.  The discussions are up from about 600,000 square feet in
the second quarter,  Dennis Friedrich , president of Brookfield’s
U.S. commercial operations, said on an earnings conference call
today. Bank of America, which took over leases on about half of
the property with its acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co., is
moving closer to deciding how much it will keep, he said.  Addressing the 2013 expirations is the “front-burner
issue” for New York-based Brookfield,  Michael Knott , an analyst
with Green Street Advisors, said in March. Bank of America is
the biggest tenant for the company, which gets about 26 percent
of operating income from lower Manhattan.  About 70 percent of the expiring space is under negotiation
for new leases or in “pretty serious discussion,” Friedrich
said on the call. That’s “pretty good traction, given the fact
that we still have pretty much three years remaining on the
lease term,” he said.  Friedrich didn’t identify the potential tenants. Deloitte
LLP is negotiating to move to Merrill’s former headquarters at 4
World Financial Center, two people familiar with the talks said
in June. Deloitte has the biggest space among 11 companies that
sublet offices from Merrill at 2 World Financial Center.  T.J. Crawford, a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said in an e-mail today that no decision
has been made about the World Financial Center leases.  Rising FFO  Brookfield today reported funds from operations
attributable to common shareholders of $159 million, or 32 cents
a share, up from $122 million, or 28 cents, a year earlier. The
results exceeded the 30-cent average estimate of 12 analysts in
a Bloomberg  survey .  The company is “on track” to beat the earnings  forecast 
it made in the beginning of the year, Chief Financial Officer
 Bryan Davis  said on the call. Brookfield now projects FFO of
about $1.36 a share, “plus or minus a penny,” he said. It
previously estimated FFO of about $1.28.  The shares fell 13 cents to $17.39 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock is up 44 percent this
year, compared with a 19 percent increase in the 76-member  Dow
Jones U.S. Real Estate Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 