-- Build Americas Face Biggest 2010 Monthly Loss on Supply Glut: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-10-29T14:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/build-america-bonds-face-biggest-2010-monthly-loss-muni-credit.html
Build America Bonds, the fastest-
growing part of the $2.8 trillion municipal debt market, are
poised for the biggest monthly loss in 2010 as an increased
supply of the taxable debt drives up yields.  States and municipalities have sold about $4.9 billion of
the federally subsidized securities this week, the most since
the five-day trading period ended April 24, 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuers have placed 49 offerings for
sale, the highest number since the program’s creation by the
economic stimulus package in February 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Potential issuers of Build America Bonds have two months
left to sell their debt at the 35-percent subsidy before the
program is set to expire on Dec. 31. Anticipated fourth-quarter
increases in supply and yield left investors hesitant to buy the
securities this month, weakening the market, said  Justin Hoogendoorn , a bond strategist at BMO Capital Markets in
Chicago.  “It’s supply expectations,” said Hoogendoorn, who
forecasts more than $35 billion in sales this quarter. “Issuers
are definitely looking to get in before the expiration. Dealers
are taking a cautious view and not picking up inventories ahead
of supply.”  Build Americas  Build America investors have lost 2.7 percent in October,
the worst performance for the asset class since a loss of 4.3
percent in December, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch total-return index. That compares with minus 3.1 percent
in October by AA rated long-term corporate debt, the worst loss
since January 2009, a Merrill index shows.  Both types of bonds have earned investors money this year,
returning 12 percent and 13 percent, respectively.  Revenue-backed Build Americas are less susceptible to
volatility than general-obligation debt, and tend to do well
over time, said  Michael Zezas , a municipal strategist with
 Morgan Stanley  in New York.  “Over the long term, it’s an asset class that will perform
strongly compared with corporates,” he said. “BABs have
similar yield and better credit quality.”  Legislation introduced by Senate Finance Committee Chairman
 Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, would extend the Build America
Bond program by one year with the subsidy reduced to 32 percent.
Previous extension plans passed by the House of Representatives
stalled in the Senate. The program’s indefinite future has added
to investor resistance this month, Zezas said.  “Concern about the market not being continued hinders
market sponsorship,” he said. “As we get closer to year-end,
that fear will heighten.”  Comparable Asset Classes  Among other fixed-income asset classes this month,
investors in U.S. Treasuries lost 0.45 percent, the first
negative monthly return since March, Merrill’s Treasury Master
index shows. Tax-exempt debt has been more resilient, with a -
0.28 percent return in October, according to Merrill’s Municipal
Master Index.  The level of rates in tax-exempt munis has been
“unpalatable” to some investors, sapping demand amid an
increase in supply, said  Joe Darcy , sector head of municipal
finance at Hartford Investment Management, which has $14 billion
in municipal debt under management.  Yields on top-rated tax-exempts due in 10 years were 2.68
percent yesterday, according to a  Bloomberg Fair Market Value 
index. That’s up from 2.3 percent on Sept. 7, the lowest level
in at least 19 years, Bloomberg data show.  Tax-exempts have returned about 6.8 percent this year, a
Merrill index shows.  More than $153 billion of Build Americas have been sold to
date, Bloomberg data show. Congress is in recess until after
next month’s midterm elections so the future of the program
remains in limbo.  “There’s a pretty decent likelihood it gets extended”
given the benefits it’s provided municipalities, Hoogendoorn
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 