-- Buy Philippine Banks, Builders on Economy, Increased Lending, ING Says
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2010-10-29T02:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/buy-philippine-banks-developers-on-economy-spending-increase-ing-says.html
Investors should buy Philippine
banks and builders on a likely increase in new lending as the
economy expands and the government boosts spending on
infrastructure, ING Investment Management Ltd. said.  “The economy is in an expansion phase and that’s favorable
for earnings of cyclical sectors like banks and property,”
said  Paul Joseph Garcia , chief investment officer at ING’s
Manila unit and who manages $1.85 billion, said in an interview.
He predicts the benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  will
advance to as high as 5,300 next year, a 24 percent gain from
yesterday’s close of 4,260.69.  The Philippine economy grew 7.9 percent in the second
quarter, the fastest pace in three years, as the central bank
kept overnight borrowing rates at a record low of 4 percent for
more than a year. The government plans to boost economic growth
to between 7 percent and 8 percent from 2011 onwards by courting
private capital to fund 739.8 billion pesos ($17 billion) of
railways roads and ports.  The  benchmark equities index  has jumped 40 percent this
year and the peso gained 7 percent against the dollar as capital
inflows flooded into Asia amid near-zero benchmark interest
rates in the U.S. A gauge tracking the nation’s finance stocks
has rallied 47 percent during that time while developers rose 44
percent.  Overseas investors  have bought a net $1.26 billion of
Philippine shares this year, three times the amount they
acquired in all of 2009.  Net purchases  of the country’s stocks
reached a record $1.35 billion in 2007 when the peso appreciated
16 percent against the U.S. dollar.  Buy Peso Assets  “We are still far from the peak and the best is yet to
come,” Garcia said, declining to name specific stocks. He
manages the nation’s biggest equities fund. “It’s cheaper to
buy peso assets now.”  The peso may rise to 40 per dollar next year, he said. The
local currency climbed to 43.115 yesterday, the highest since
May 2008.  The Philippine central bank yesterday eased its rules on
foreign-exchange outflows, joining other nations that have
signaled they will slow gains in their currencies to protect
their economies from the dollar’s slide.  “While the amendments will help temper the strengthening
of the peso, the impact on both domestic liquidity and inflation
will be minimal,” Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas said.  Garcia said investors should “underweight” telephone
companies because earnings growth will remain weak relative to
other sectors including banks, energy and property.  Shares of  Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co.,  the
nation’s biggest company by market value, have risen 4.8 percent
this year, the fifth-worst performance among the gauge’s 31
members. The company posted a 1 percent increase in second-
quarter profit, the weakest growth in five quarters as
competition forced it to offer cheaper calling packages.  Garcia said he prefers power producers over electricity
retailers as existing power plants benefit from a shortage in
the nation’s energy capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  