-- Cain, Giants Beat Rangers 9-0, Take Two-Game World Series Lead
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-29T04:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/cain-giants-beat-rangers-9-0-take-two-game-world-series-lead.html
The San Francisco Giants won Game 1
of the World Series with 14 hits. They took Game 2 with shutout
pitching.  With the best-of-seven series heading to Texas, the Rangers
are down 2-0 and -- after getting outscored 20-7 in San
Francisco -- still haven’t won a World Series game in the
franchise’s 50-year history.  Matt Cain  and two relievers combined on a four-hitter and
 Edgar Renteria  drove in three runs to lead the Giants to a 9-0
win last night at AT&T Park in San Francisco. The Giants scored
seven runs in the final inning.  “We’ve put ourselves in a good situation,” Cain said in a
news conference. “We’ve just got to take that confidence and
some of the good approaches that we’ve had in these last two
games and take them down to Texas with us.”  A team has taken a 2-0 lead in 51 of the previous 105 World
Series, and has gone on to win the championship in 40 of those
years -- a 78 percent success rate.  Game 3 is scheduled for tomorrow night at Rangers Ballpark
in Arlington, Texas.  Colby Lewis  is set to start for the Rangers
against San Francisco’s  Jonathan Sanchez .  The games in San Francisco contrasted starkly. In Game 1,
the Giants won 11-7 in a contest that included 25 hits and six
errors. There were 12 hits and no errors last night.  “There’s still a lot of baseball left to be played,”
Rangers manager  Ron Washington  said in a news conference. “We
certainly don’t feel like we’re defeated. We’re heading home.
They took care of us in their ballpark, now we’re headed to
ours.”  Cain’s Scoreless Innings  Cain threw 7 2/3 shutout innings in Game 2 and hasn’t
allowed an earned run in 21 1/3 innings in three starts this
postseason. He’s the fourth pitcher in Major League Baseball
history to not allow an earned run in his first three postseason
starts, and the first since Jon Matlack of the New York Mets in
1973. The other two pitchers are Hall of Famers  Christy Mathewson  of the New York Giants in 1905 and Waite Hoyt of the
New York Yankees in 1921.  Cain outpitched the Rangers’  C.J. Wilson , a left-hander who
allowed two runs on three hits before leaving the game in the
seventh inning with a blister on the middle finger of his
pitching hand.  “It was a tight game going into the eighth inning,”
Giants manager  Bruce Bochy  said in a news conference. “The big
inning certainly helped.”  The Giants are seeking their first World Series title since
1954, when they were based in New York. The Rangers, playing in
the World Series for the first time, have never won in 11 games
at AT&T Park and haven’t defeated the Giants in nine games
overall dating to 2001.  Renteria Breaks Deadlock  Cain and Wilson traded scoreless innings until Renteria hit
a solo home run about seven rows deep into the left-field stands
with one out in the fifth inning. The Giants added their second
run on  Juan Uribe ’s run-scoring single in the seventh.  The Rangers had only one baserunner in the first four
innings.  Ian Kinsler  hit a double high off the center-field wall
leading off the fifth and was stranded at second base.  The Rangers threatened to score in the sixth, when  Michael Young  and  Josh Hamilton  had consecutive one-out singles and
advanced on a wild pitch. The potential rally fizzled when
 Nelson Cruz  fouled out and Kinsler flied to right.  The Giants added seven runs in the eighth inning on a two-
out single by  Buster Posey , four straight walks, a two-run
single by Renteria, a two-run triple by pinch-hitter  Aaron Rowand  and a run-scoring double by  Andres Torres .  Elvis Andrus  and Cruz were held hitless for the Rangers,
the first time in 13 postseason games either had failed to get
at least one hit.  “You have to tip your hat to the pitching over there,”
Washington said. “Those guys were good, especially Cain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  at AT&T Park in San Francisco at 
1397 or  rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  