-- Canadian Stocks Advance as U.S., Canada Report Faster Growth
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-29T21:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/canadian-stocks-rise-as-gold-gains-metal-shares-advance-potash-increases.html
Canadian stocks  rose, completing a
fourth-straight monthly gain, as the U.S. and Canada reported
faster growth in gross domestic product and precious-metal
stocks advanced.  Barrick Gold Corp., the world’s largest gold producer,
climbed 2.2 percent as the metal climbed to a nine-day high with
anticipation of demand from India. Thompson Creek Metals Co.
soared 12 percent after the China Securities Journal said China
may limit mining of molybdenum. Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada’s
third-largest lender by assets, increased 1.5 percent as the S&P/TSX
Banks Index ended a six-day streak of losses.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 112.15
points, or 0.9 percent, the most in three weeks, to 12,676.24.
For the month, the index increased 2.5 percent.  “The GDP announcement today was indicative of a soft
landing as opposed to a double dip in the U.S. economy,” said
 Bob Decker , who helps oversee C$4.9 billion ($4.8 billion) as a
money manager at Aurion Capital Management in Toronto. “That’s
comforting to a lot of people.”  The S&P/TSX has jumped 12 percent since the end of June,
led by materials producers, as the U.S. dollar has slumped. The
currency has retreated, boosting commodity prices, on concern
that a second round of asset purchases by U.S. Federal Reserve
will raise the money supply.  GDP Growth  The S&P/TSX advanced today after the U.S. Commerce
Department said the U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annualized
rate in the third quarter, up from 1.7 percent in the second
quarter. Canadian gross domestic product expanded by 0.3 percent
after contracting 0.1 percent in the second quarter.  The  banks index  increased 1 percent, the most in three
weeks, after losing 3.7 percent during its streak of declines.  Scotiabank climbed 1.5 percent to C$54.67. Toronto-Dominion
Bank, Canada’s second-largest bank, rose 1 percent to C$73.45.
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the No. 5 lender by assets,
gained 1.8 percent to C$78.23.  Precious-metal futures increased as the U.S. dollar
declined against most other major currencies. Commodity traders
may also be anticipating increased jewelry demand from India
because of the Diwali religious festival next week, and this
year Indian farmers have extra cash because of high food prices,
said  Tom Pawlicki , an analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in
Chicago.  Barrick climbed 2.2 percent to C$49.12. Silver reseller
Silver Wheaton Corp. rose 4.2 percent to a record C$29.32 as
that metal gained 3.1 percent, extending a 30-year high. Silver
Standard Resources Inc., which explores in Latin America,
rallied 3.1 percent to C$24.80 after announcing the sale of two
Canadian projects for C$450 million.  Thompson Creek  Molybdenum producer Thompson Creek jumped 12 percent, the
most in 15 months, to C$12.28 after the China Securities
Journal, citing an unidentified person, said the country is
preparing to classify molybdenum as a national mining resource.
China is the world’s largest producer of the metal used in
steelmaking, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  Mercator Minerals Ltd., which produces molybdenum, copper
and silver in Arizona, surged 7.4 percent to a nine-month high
of C$3.19.  The  S&P/TSX Energy Index  rose as natural gas increased to a
six-week high on forecasts of cooler-than-normal weather in the
U.S.  EnCana Corp., Canada’s largest producer of the fuel, gained
2 percent to C$28.81. Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., the
country’s second-biggest energy company by market value,
advanced 2 percent to C$37.13. Suncor Energy Inc., Canada’s
biggest oil and gas producer, increased for the first time since
Oct. 13, climbing 0.9 percent to C$32.68.  Ivanhoe Energy  Ivanhoe Energy Inc., owner of the Tamarack oil sands
project, jumped 14 percent, the most in eight months, to C$2.64.
Yesterday, the company said it had produced oil from its second
appraisal well at the Pungarayacu field in Ecuador, calling the
result “an historic event.”  Canadian Oil Sands Trust, the largest owner of the Syncrude
project, slumped 4.2 percent to C$25.56 after reporting third-
quarter cash flow that  Brian Dutton , an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said was in line with analysts’ forecasts.  In a note to clients, Dutton reduced his 2010-12 cash-flow
estimates for the company and said there is a “clear signal”
for a cut to unitholder distributions.  Saputo Inc. , Canada’s largest cheese producer, rallied 4.8
percent to a record C$38.98 before the Nov. 1 release of its
second-quarter earnings. In a note to clients,  Irene Nattel , an
analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, said profit should surpass the
average analyst forecast due in part to efficiency and
productivity gains and higher prices.  Linamar Corp., the country’s second-biggest auto-parts
maker, rose 5 percent to C$22.47. Shares of the Guelph, Ontario-
based company have soared 14 percent since the day before
customer Ford Motor Co. reported  earnings  that beat the average
analyst estimate on Oct. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 