-- Canadian Dollar Gains Versus the U.S. Dollar After GDP Reports Show Growth
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-29T21:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/canadian-dollar-falls-versus-yen-climbs-against-euro-before-gdp-report.html
Canada’s dollar posted a weekly gain
versus its U.S. counterpart this week after government reports
showed the economies of both countries are expanding, improving
the outlook for higher-yielding assets.  The loonie rose 0.6 percent during the past five days and 1
percent this month versus the U.S. dollar, which was down
against 15 of its 16 most-traded counterparts today. Fed policy
makers are due to consider expanding asset purchases in a policy
known as quantitative easing at their meeting Nov. 2-3.  “The Canadian and U.S. gross domestic product reports are
both helping the Canadian dollar,”  Michael Leavitt , Montreal-
based institutional-derivatives broker at MF Global Canada Co.,
wrote via e-mail. “The Federal Open Market Committee and
employment reports next week will overshadow the GDP reports.”  The Canadian dollar appreciated to C$1.0194 per  U.S. dollar 
at 5:09 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0259 on Oct. 22. It was little
changed on the day. One Canadian dollar buys 98.10 U.S. cents.  Canada’s economy grew 0.3 percent in August after shrinking
0.1 percent in July, Statistics Canada said in Ottawa. That
matched the median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, also matching the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a 1.7 percent gain the
prior three months, Commerce Department figures showed in
Washington.  Domestic Outlook  Since reaching parity with its U.S. counterpart on Oct. 14,
the loonie has depreciated 1.6 percent. The currency has been
“weighed down by a recovering greenback and a downwardly
revised domestic economic outlook by the Bank of Canada,”
 Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange strategy
at CIBC World Markets in London, wrote in a note to clients.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated this week
the country’s economy has “considerable” stimulus from his 1
percent benchmark interest rate and further moves to tighten
policy would be “carefully considered.”  The central bank last week lowered its economic growth
forecast for the next five quarters and kept its key lending
rate unchanged after three prior increases.  “With no support from further rate hikes, look for the
Canadian dollar to depreciate some 7 cents weaker than parity
over the course of the coming winter, as the economic recovery
shifts into a new phase of greater uncertainty,” CIBC’s Stretch
wrote in the note, published yesterday.  Government Debt  The benchmark Canadian 10-year bond’s  yield  touched 2.91
percent yesterday, the highest level in five weeks, before
slipping to 2.8 percent today as the 3.5 percent security due in
June 2020 rose 59 cents to C$105.82.  The Fed is expected to announce next week another program
to purchase assets. Fed officials have suggested they are
looking to push rates on 10-year Treasuries down about 50 basis
points to 2 percent. That would translate into a program of
about $1 trillion.  “The intraday volatility is just noise ahead of the FOMC,
which carries a much greater event risk for capital markets and
most definitely the U.S. dollar,”  Jack Spitz , managing director
of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada, said by phone
from Toronto. “Dollar-Canada remains a sideways trade in the
midst of a fair bit of elasticity among some of the crosses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  