-- Canada's Economy Grew 0.3% in August to Rebound from July's Contraction
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-29T14:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/canada-s-economy-grew-0-3-in-august-to-rebound-from-july-s-contraction.html
Canada’s  gross domestic product  grew
as expected in August after shrinking the month before, led by
wholesaling and manufacturing.  Output rose 0.3 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual
rate of C$1.24 trillion ($1.21 trillion) in August following a
0.1 percent contraction in July, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. The result matched the median forecast of 24 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  The Bank of Canada kept its  key interest rate  at 1 percent
on Oct. 19 after three increases, and said further moves would
be “carefully considered,” while Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
delayed payroll tax increases to aid growth and said it will
take five years to end a record budget deficit.  “I don’t believe this is a turning point for the
economy,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist with BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto. “The recovery can keep grinding
forward but it’s going to be tough to grow much faster than what
we’ve been seeing in recent months” an annualized pace of about
2 percent, he said.  The economic growth rate slowed to 1.6 percent on an
annualized basis in the July-September period, the central bank
 said Oct. 20 , when it cut its forecast for five quarters due to
weak household spending and U.S. demand. Canada emerged from a
recession last year and won’t return to full output until the
end of 2012, the bank said.  Dollar Rises  Canada’s dollar appreciated against its U.S. counterpart
after the report and another showing the American economy grew
at a 2 percent annual rate in the third quarter. The Canadian
dollar rose 0.4 percent to C$1.0172 per U.S. dollar at 10:15
a.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0211 yesterday. One Canadian dollar
buys 98.31 U.S. cents.  “We are never an island,”  Doug MacDonald , president of
Aviva Investors Canada Inc., which oversees about C$6 billion in
fixed-income assets, said before the report. “The bank has
gotten more cautious and has put their hiking program on hold,”
probably for three quarters, he said.  The International Monetary Fund said yesterday that it was
appropriate for the Bank of Canada to stop raising interest
rates and policy makers should be prepared to offer new stimulus
if the recovery falters.  “We are in a time of more moderate growth,” Flaherty told
reporters today in Whitby, Ontario. “The U.S. housing sector
remains a major concern and that is a reality Canadians are
fortunate not to share.”  Soft Recovery  “We are still concerned that it may be a soft recovery,”
Walter Pizzolitto, marketing manager at customs broker Russell
A. Farrow Ltd. in Windsor, Ontario, said Sept. 30. “We are so
tied into the U.S., my concern is that if Canada were to pull
the stimulus now we would really suffer.”  Wholesaling increased 1.1 percent in August, the first
increase in four months, led by machinery and equipment and
petroleum. Manufacturing rose 0.5 percent, as did the  mining and
oil and gas  industries.  Finance and insurance output grew 0.6 percent in August, on
increased lending and stock trading, Statistics Canada said.
Construction gained 0.4 percent.  Gross domestic product was 4.1 percent higher in August
than the same month a year earlier.  A separate Statistics Canada report showed that factory
prices rose slower than economists predicted last month while
their raw materials costs unexpectedly declined.  The  industrial product price index  rose 0.2 percent in
September from August. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 15 economists was for a 0.3 percent increase.  The  raw-materials price  index fell 0.4 percent, Statistics
Canada said, versus economist predictions for 1 percent increase
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey with 11
responses.  Industrial prices rose 1.4 percent over the 12 months
ending in September. The raw materials index rose 5.8 percent on
the year, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  