-- Candy Brothers Win London Bonus Dispute With Ex-Chelsea Barracks Planner
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-10-29T14:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/candy-brothers-win-london-bonus-dispute-with-ex-chelsea-barracks-planner.html
The design firm founded by  Christian Candy  and his brother Nick won a lawsuit against the former
development director for the  Chelsea Barracks project  in London,
who had sued over an unpaid bonus.  Candy & Candy Ltd. doesn’t have to pay a 160,000-pound
($255,000) bonus to Andrew Locke, because he wasn’t employed on
the date the bonus would have been owed, the U.K. Court of
Appeal ruled today.  Locke was hired by the Candys on Sept. 17, 2007, and fired
by the firm on Sept. 7 the following year. The firm paid Locke
six months-salary after he was fired, under the terms of his
contract. The company didn’t pay the 160,000-pound bonus because
Locke hadn’t been employed for a full year.  Locke’s lawyer, Andrew Stafford, had argued at an earlier
hearing his client should receive the bonus as part of his
severance. Stafford had said Candy & Candy “should not be able
to take the benefit of the claimant’s work and evade payment,”
according to the judgment from Justice Rupert Jackson today.  Locke declined to immediately comment after the ruling.
Stafford’s request for permission to appeal the judgment was
denied. He can still apply directly to the U.K. Supreme Court to
hear the matter, the judges said.  Candy & Candy “has always maintained that it acted
properly and in accordance with Mr. Locke’s contract of
employment and that he was not entitled to the bonus he
claimed,” the firm said in an e-mailed statement. “We hope
that this is now an end to the matter.”  Prince of Wales  The Candys’ CPC Group Ltd. and the real-estate investment
arm of Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund settled a lawsuit in July
over their failed deal to redevelop the Chelsea Barracks site.
CPC accused Qatari Diar of wrongfully backing out of the deal to
avoid upsetting the  Prince of Wales , who had complained about
the design.  Under the settlement, Christian Candy dissolved his
interest in the deal and apologized for “any offense” caused
by bringing the Prince into the case. A joint venture of CPC and
Qatari Diar paid 959 million pounds for the Chelsea Barracks
site in January 2008. Qatari Diar bought out CPC’s stake in
November that year.  The case is Locke v. Candy & Candy Ltd., A2/2010/0807,
Court of Appeal, Civil Division (London).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 