-- Carlyle Leads Buyers ‘Hungry for Yield’ in Second-Lien Opening
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-10-29T13:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/carlyle-leads-buyers-hungry-for-yield-as-sales-of-subordinated-debt-rise.html
Carlyle Group and funds that
typically invest in junk bonds are buying leveraged loans with
more risk and lesser claims to reap higher yields as sales of
subordinated bank debt rise.  TPG Capital’s Vertafore Inc., payment services provider
Fifth Third Processing Solutions LLC and Goodman Global Inc.,
owned by Hellman & Friedman LLC, lead companies issuing the most
amount of second-lien loans, which get repaid after first-lien
debt in a bankruptcy or liquidation, since the credit crisis.  The average premium lenders demand to fund second-lien debt
rose this year to a record 3.69 percentage points more than
first-lien loans from 3.22 percentage points in 2007, according
to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data. Federal
Reserve policies that may keep interest rates at historic lows
and declining default rates are driving demand, enabling
borrowers to refinance debt and pay out private-equity owners.  “There are a significant amount of crossover investors in
the loan market right now; these investors are hungry for yield,
especially hedge funds and retail mutual funds that typically
buy bonds,” said  Eric Meyer , head of U.S. loan portfolio
management at DB Advisors, Deutsche Bank AG’s institutional
asset management business, which oversees $220 billion of fixed-
income assets. “Many of them are finding yield in the loan
market and particularly in second-lien tranches.”  Yields on the S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan Index, representing
about 95 percent of the institutional U.S. bank debt market,
dropped to 5.48 percent as of yesterday, the second lowest since
February 2005 behind 5.26 percent in April, S&P LCD said. Junk-
bond yields dropped to 7.63 percent as of yesterday, the lowest
since May 24, 2007, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch US High
Yield Master II Index shows.  New-Issue Spreads  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  The average spread on new-issue second-lien loans this year
is 10.46 percent, according to S&P LCD. That compares with a
monthly average of 5.29 percent for first-lien loans rated BB
and BB-, S&P LCD data show, and a spread of 6.44 percentage
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries for junk bonds,
according to the US High Yield Master II index.  Second-lien loan issuance rose to $3.77 billion this year,
double the total amount in 2009 and 26 percent more than the
year before that, according to S&P LCD. In 2007, when leveraged
loan sales peaked as banks competed to fund the biggest buyouts,
speculative-grade borrowers issued $29.8 billion of the debt.  ‘Access to Capital’  “Issuance is picking up now; it stems from equity-owners
trying to monetize some of their investments,” said  Linda Pace ,
a managing director at Carlyle, which oversees $13 billion in
leveraged loans in the U.S. and Europe. “It’s inevitable as the
economy improves and default rates remain low that riskier
credits will have increasing access to capital.”  The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annual pace in the
third quarter, outpacing the 1.7 percent rate in the previous
three months, the Commerce Department said today. Economists had
forecasted a 1.9 percent growth rate for the gross domestic
product in a survey by Bloomberg News earlier this month.  Fed officials are planning additional asset purchases aimed
at lowering long-term rates and boosting economic growth ahead
of their Nov. 2-3 meeting as they seek to reduce  unemployment 
near a 26-year high. The central bankers cut the federal funds
rate for overnight loans among banks to a record low range of
zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008 and have kept it there to
help stimulate lending.  Defaults Drop  The U.S. leveraged-loan default rate dropped to 4.1 percent
at the end of September from 6.2 percent on June 30 and 10.8
percent a year ago, Moody’s said in an Oct. 7 report. The
default rate for U.S. speculative-grade issuers will decline to
2.8 percent by yearend, according to Moody’s. It was at 4
percent at the end of the third quarter and 14.2 percent a year
before that.  This year, 20 borrowers including  Burger King Holdings
Inc. , which 3G Capital is taking private in a $4 billion
leveraged buyout, and U.S. defense contractor DynCorp
International Inc., acquired for $1.5 billion by Cerberus
Capital Management LP, issued $9.78 billion high-yield bonds to
back buyouts with an average yield of 10.23 percent, S&P LCD
data show.  “Issuers will look at deals where they are currently
considering bonds and they may once again look at second-lien
loans as a closer substitute to a bond issuance,” DB Advisors’
Meyer said in a telephone interview from his New York office.  Loans Rise  Vertafore’s $260 million second-lien loan to refinance an
unsecured loan rose to 100.625 cents on the dollar when it
started trading this week. TPG, the Fort Worth, Texas-based
private-equity firm that bought the company in July, had
provided the debt that is being repaid in lieu of a bond sale
for the LBO. The Bothell, Washington-based software maker issued
its second-lien loan at 99 cents to yield about 10.6 percent.  Goodman Global’s $275 million second-lien loan this week
jumped 2.5 cents to 100.5 cents on the dollar in its first
trade. The Houston-based company priced the debt with a yield of
about 9.6 percent and will use the proceeds, along with a first-
lien loan, to refinance debt and pay a dividend to Hellman &
Friedman.  Fifth Third Processing, a joint venture between private-
equity firm Advent International Corp. and Cincinnati-based
Fifth Third Bancorp, cut pricing on a $200 million second-lien
loan to yield about 9.1 percent. The company’s previous price
guidance implied a yield of as much as 9.8 percent.  The first-lien loans of Goodman Global and Fifth Third
Processing were priced to yield about 6 percent.  ‘Rapidly Growing Pipeline’  “This is a way to pay a little higher coupon, but have a
lot more optionality with respect to refinancing debt as an
alternative to bonds and mezzanine financing,” said  Jeff Cohen ,
managing director of loan capital markets at  Credit Suisse Group
AG , the biggest arranger of second-lien loans in the U.S. this
year, according to Thomson Reuters Loan Pricing Corp.  “We see a rapidly growing pipeline of committed and best
efforts second-lien term loans in a variety of shapes and sizes
for fourth-quarter and first-quarter launches,” Cohen said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 