-- Hawaiian Telcom Exits Bankruptcy With Lower Debt, Sheds Carlyle Interest
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-29T01:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/carlyle-group-s-hawaiian-telcom-emerges-from-bankruptcy-with-reduced-debt.html
Hawaiian Telcom Communications Inc.,
the phone company bought by Carlyle Group in 2005, said it
emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy and reduced its debt by more
than $850 million,.  The company exited bankruptcy today with $300 million in
debt, it said in a statement. The Hawaii Public Utilities
Commission, the last group needed to sign off,  approved  the
Chapter 11 reorganization plan for the Honolulu-based company on
Sept. 22.  “As was our goal, we have significantly reduced our debt
through the Chapter 11 process and have emerged a much stronger,
more financially secure company better positioned to address the
growth opportunities as the leading communications provider in
the Hawaii marketplace,” Chief Executive Officer  Eric Yeaman 
said in the statement.  The almost two-year-long process let the company
restructure or shed more than $1 billion in liabilities after
struggling to finance capital spending while paying down debt
following its leveraged buyout by Carlyle. Hawaiian Telcom can
now rely on its dominant market share in the state and on new
products, including services that combine voice and data in one
connection, said Brian Tanner, director of investor relations.  Residential, Business  “Not only do we provide service to residential customers
here, we provide it to businesses of all sizes,” Tanner said in
an interview. “We’re a wholesale provider, so every telecom or
communications company that does business in Hawaii uses us in
some sort of way.”  The bankruptcy was the second of two in 2008 for a business
controlled by Carlyle, the Washington-based private-equity firm
that bought the Hawaiian operations of U.S. phone-service
company Verizon Communications Inc. in 2005 for $1.6 billion.
Carlyle and a group of smaller holders, mostly Hawaiian business
owners, investors and lawyers, no longer have a stake in
Hawaiian Telcom, according to Tanner.  Chris Ullman , a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to comment
on the bankruptcy. Carlyle is the world’s second-largest
private-equity firm after Blackstone Group LP with more than
$90 billion under management.  Hawaiian Telcom is the largest local phone company in
Hawaii with 463,490 access lines as of March 31, according to a
regulatory filing. That was down from 499,870 subscribers the
year before.  Cooper’s Replacement  Yeaman has been CEO of Hawaiian Telcom since June 2008. He
replaced Stephen Cooper, a restructuring specialist from the
former corporate advisory firm Kroll Zolfo Cooper LLC, who
served for three months.  The company filed its Chapter 11 petition on Dec. 1, 2008,
listing assets of $1.35 billion and debt of $1.27 billion. It
blamed the bankruptcy the economic downturn and trouble
transitioning to new billing and internal computer “back
office” systems once separated from Verizon.  In addition to the burden of complex billing, pricing and
customer-service systems, Carlyle may have also bought the
company as competition for home-phone customers was increasing,
said Rory Altman, a director at consulting firm Altman Vilandrie
& Co. in Boston.  ‘Lights Out’  Carriers with older home-phone networks, including  Verizon 
and AT&T Inc., the two largest U.S. phone companies, are losing
fixed-line customers as more subscribers switch to mobile phones
or to cable-television companies that are bundling telephone
service with their TV and Internet offerings.  “A lot of people did not understand the intensity in
competition from the cable companies, and that cable telephony
would really change the game completely,” Altman said. “Once
the cable guys launched voice, it was basically lights out.”  In the first nine months of 2008, leading up to the
company’s bankruptcy filing, Hawaiian Telcom said sales dropped
7.4 percent from a year earlier as customers cut subscriptions
or switched to unlimited long-distance plans.  Carlyle said it was firing 10 percent of staff at the
investment firm that same week. Private-equity deals had dropped
more than 70 percent during the year as the global economy
slipped into a recession. Some of the firm’s cuts came from the
Carlyle unit dedicated to taking U.S. companies private.  “The world was coming to an end,” said  Steve Kaplan , a
professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.
“They bought it in the period where things were beginning to be
frothy, where lenders were willing to lend you money at
relatively low interest rates.”  The case is Hawaiian Telcom Communications Inc., 08-02005,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Hawaii (Honolulu).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 