-- Caroline Wozniacki Secures Women's Tennis Tour Year-End No. 1 Ranking
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-10-29T16:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/caroline-wozniacki-secures-women-s-tennis-tour-year-end-no-1-ranking.html
Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark will
finish the tennis season as the top-ranked player in the world
after she advanced to the semifinals of the WTA Championships in
Doha.  “2010 has been the most amazing year in my career,”
Wozniacki said in an e-mailed  WTA  statement. “Capturing the
year-end world No.1 ranking is a huge accomplishment for me and
I am thrilled that all the hard work has paid off.”  The 20-year-old, who made her first major final last year
at the U.S. Open, has yet to win a major. Her best performance
this season at the four Grand Slam events was a semifinal place
at the U.S. Open. Wozniacki is only the 10th player to end the
season as the best female tennis player since the WTA ranking
system was introduced in 1975. The first player from Denmark to
hold the top spot, she has won a tour-leading six titles this
season.  Wozniacki, who yesterday qualified for the semifinals of
the year-end WTA Championships by beating French Open champion
 Francesca Schiavone  of Italy in a group match, plays Australia’s
 Samantha Stosur  tomorrow for a place in the finals. Russia’s
 Vera Zvonareva  faces U.S. Open champion  Kim Clijsters  of Belgium
in today’s semifinal in Doha.  Wozniacki had taken over the top spot from an injured
 Serena Williams  at the start of this month. Williams, this
season’s Australian Open and Wimbledon champion, hasn’t played
on the tour since hurting her foot after clinching her 13th
major title at the All England Club in July. The American has
dropped to No. 3 in the rankings.  Zvonareva , a runner-up at
Wimbledon and the U.S. Open this year, is ranked No. 2.  Steffi Graf ,  Monica Seles  and  Martina Hingis  are the only
three other players younger than Wozniacki to have finished the
year as No. 1.  Former Olympic champion  Elena Dementieva , who lost two
Grand Slam finals, retired today at the age of 29. The Russian
was ranked 9th in the world, and last year reached a career-high
of No. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  