-- CEO of Poland's Orlen Says Lithuania Unit Attracts Several Possible Buyers
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-10-29T08:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/ceo-of-poland-s-orlen-says-lithuania-unit-attracts-several-possible-buyers.html
PKN Orlen SA , Poland’s biggest oil
company, said it’s received several expressions of interest in
Orlen Lietuva, its Lithuanian refining unit, though it has yet
to decide whether it wants to sell it.  Chief Executive Officer  Jacek Krawiec  told Warsaw-based
Radio PiN that the information is based on a preliminary report
prepared for Orlen by Nomura Holdings Inc. He declined to name
the potential bidders.  Orlen  needs to see details of the offers, which should
include prices and the sizes of stakes sought, before it makes a
decision, Krawiec said. Nomura is scheduled to provide the
information late this year or early in 2011, he added.  Nomura was hired in August to advise on the future of the
Lithuanian unit, formerly known as Mazeikiu Nafta. Orlen said
options include selling part or all of its stake or keeping the
refinery running and improving its efficiency.  The Polish company bought 84 percent of Lietuva in 2006 for
$2.34 billion, a record investment by a Polish company abroad,
fending off competition from rivals that included Russia’s OAO
Lukoil and OAO TNK-BP, as well as Kazakhstan’s KazMunaiGaz.  A Russian pipeline that supplied crude to the refinery has
been idled since mid-2006, forcing Orlen to rely on costlier
seaborne imports. The refiner’s profitability has been hurt by
lack of access to a fuel terminal and higher shipping costs
after Lithuania dismantled part of a railway, making the
transport route longer.  Orlen  has been in talks with the Lithuanian government to
rebuild the rail section; so far, no agreement has been reached.  “The profitability of Mazeikiu hasn’t improved to
satisfactory levels,” Krawiec said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  