-- Chevron Quarterly Profit Unexpectedly Falls on Drill Ban Costs
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-10-29T20:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/chevron-reports-third-quarter-profit-declined-1-6-percent.html
Chevron Corp.  posted an unexpected
drop in net income, bucking the trend of bigger profits among
the largest oil companies, after costs from exploration failures
erased gains from higher crude prices and record production.  Third-quarter profit fell 1.6 percent to $3.77 billion, or
$1.87 a share, from $3.83 billion, or $1.92, a year earlier, San
Ramon, California-based  Chevron  said in a statement today.
That’s 28 cents less than the average of 15 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Exploration  expenses soared 74 percent during the quarter
as the company took “significant” write-offs on wells in
Turkey and Canada, Chief Financial Officer  Patricia Yarrington 
said today during an investor conference call. Higher costs
wiped out the benefit of a 12 percent climb in oil prices and
the most third-quarter crude and gas production in company
history.  “They are coming up short in the upstream business at a
time when everyone else in the industry is reporting healthy
earnings with the improvement in the crude pricing
environment,” said  Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire
Advisory and Research Inc., a Chicago-based risk-management
adviser to oil producers.  Chevron , the second-biggest U.S. energy company, fell
$1.84, or 2.2 percent, to $82.60 a share at 4 p.m. in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock has 19 buy and
six hold  ratings  from analysts and has risen 7.3 percent this
year.  Share Buyback  Sales rose 6.6 percent to $49.7 billion from $46.6 billion
in the third quarter of 2009, Chevron said. Profit from oil and
gas sales, which account for 95 percent of Chevron’s net income,
declined 4.6 percent.  Chevron plans to spend $750 million to buy its own stock
during the current quarter, Jeanette Ourada, general manager of
investor relations, said during the call. The company last made
buybacks in the final three months of 2008.  Chevron Chief Executive Officer  John Watson  last week
announced the company would move forward with a $7.5 billion
project in deep-water oil fields in the Gulf. It’s the largest
investment since the Obama administration ended the drilling ban
imposed after BP Plc’s Macondo well caused the biggest offshore
oil leak in U.S. history.  Watson, 53, disclosed plans in March to shrink the
company’s refining  workforce  and sell Chevron’s only remaining
European refinery because of thin profit margins.  Oil Exploration  Watson, who succeeded  David O’Reilly  as CEO on Jan. 1, is
focusing investment on oil exploration in the Gulf and West
Africa, and building liquefied natural gas facilities to handle
recent discoveries off the coast of Australia.  Yarrington said on the call that the company is engaged in
“pure wildcatting” in some exploration regions. Wildcatting is
oil-patch slang for drilling the riskiest prospects in virtually
unmapped geological formations.  Yarrington didn’t provide any details about the well
writedowns in Turkey and Canada. The company has a joint venture
with the Turkish state oil company, Turkiye Petrolleri AO, to
explore the Black Sea.  Exxon Mobil Corp. , the biggest U.S. oil company, said
yesterday that its third-quarter net income rose 55 percent to
$7.35 billion, buoyed by a rise in oil prices.  ConocoPhillips ,
the third-biggest U.S. energy company, said on Oct. 27 its
third-quarter profit more than doubled.  Total SA reported today a 32 percent rise in profit for the
quarter.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  yesterday beat analysts’
estimates and posted a 6.5 percent increase in net income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 