-- Chicago Purchasing Managers Say Activity Accelerated
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-29T14:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/chicago-purchasing-managers-index-unexpectedly-climbed-to-60-6-in-october.html
Business activity in the U.S.
unexpectedly accelerated in October, signaling corporate and
consumer spending are holding up after the economy expanded at a
faster pace in the third quarter.  The Institute for Supply Management- Chicago  Inc. said today
its business barometer rose to 60.6 this month from 60.4 a month
earlier. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. Output
climbed at the fastest pace in five years.  Manufacturing remains at the forefront of the recovery as
firms upgrade equipment and boost output to meet domestic and
foreign demand. The figures are unlikely to alter investors’
expectations that Federal Reserve policy makers next week will
announce renewed asset purchases to spur growth.  “Companies are still increasing their production schedules
and not just to restock store shelves,”  Chris Rupkey , chief
financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New
York, said before the report. “As production moves higher,
eventually more workers will be added to staff.”  The  median forecast  of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the gauge would fall to 58. Estimates ranged from
52.6 to 62.6.  The economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, preliminary figures from the Commerce Department also
showed today. The increase in gross domestic product compares
with 1.7 percent growth in the second quarter.  Less Confidence  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of
U.S. consumer sentiment fell to 67.7 in October from 68.2 a
month earlier, another report today showed. Economists had
forecast a reading of 68, according to the median of 63
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Projections ranged from 67
to 70.  Stocks were little changed after the reports, hurt by the
drop in confidence. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was at
1,184.26 at 10:07 a.m. in New York. Treasury securities rose,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.62
percent from 2.66 percent late yesterday.  The Chicago group’s production gauge climbed to 69.8, the
highest level since March 2005, from 64.3 in September. The
gauge of new orders rose to 65, the highest since April, from
61.4. The  employment measure  increased to 54.6 from 53.4 in
September.  Auto Pickup  Automakers including Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford  Motor
Co. are among manufacturers seeing sales and profits pick up.  Ford, the world’s most profitable automaker, posted a 46
percent increase in September sales from a year earlier, while
it reported third-quarter net income of $1.69 billion, the most
in its 107-year history. Ford said fourth-quarter production
will rise to 1.35 million globally, about 89,000 more than in
the third quarter.  “That’s already a solidly profitable year, and we’re
confident we’ll be solidly profitable next year as well,”  Lewis Booth , Ford’s chief financial officer, said in an interview.
Oct. 26.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the outlook
nationally. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge of measure
of overall growth. Its members have operations across the U.S.
and abroad.  Regional Reports  Today’s report corroborated other measures of manufacturing
that showed a pickup. Regional Fed surveys earlier this month
showed New York-region factories expanded in October at the
fastest pace in four months, while those in the  Philadelphia 
area grew after two months of contraction.  The ISM’s monthly national factory index, due Nov. 1, may
drop to 54 in October, the lowest reading in 11 months, from
54.4 the prior month, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed.  The economy is a top issue for voters in next week’s
congressional elections, and polls show the public is
increasingly skeptical of President  Barack Obama ’s performance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 