-- China Construction Bank Quarterly Profit Rises 31%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T10:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/china-construction-bank-third-quarter-profit-climbs-31-on-credit-growth.html
(Corrects to say third quarter in first paragraph.)  China Construction Bank Corp. , the
world’s second-largest lender by market value, posted a 31
percent increase in third-quarter profit, fueled by rising
demand for credit and a decrease in non-performing loans.  Net income climbed to 39.8 billion yuan ($6 billion), or
0.17 yuan a share, from 30.3 billion yuan, or 0.13 yuan, the
Beijing-based bank said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock
exchange. That beat the 36.7 billion yuan median  estimate  of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Construction Bank joins smaller rivals Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. and Bank of China Ltd. in reporting higher-than-
expected earnings. The profit growth and improved asset quality
may boost demand for the stock when Construction Bank begins
Asia’s biggest rights offer. Bank of China Ltd. today said it
will seek to raise about 60 billion yuan next month.  “We prefer CCB’s balance-street strengths and high pre-
provisioning profit margin” compared with that of other Hong
Kong-listed Chinese lenders, said  Stanley Li , a research analyst
at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. who rates the stock as a
“buy.” “If the rights offer size of Construction Bank is
smaller than the original planned target, that will be perceived
as a positive factor.”  Smaller Offer  The state-controlled lender, established in 1954 to fund
roads, bridges, dams and other public works, may raise less than
the maximum 75 billion yuan it initially planned to collect from
the share sale, four people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday.  Construction Bank’s Hong Kong-listed  shares  have gained
10.8 percent this year, compared with a 5.6 percent increase in
the local benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The stock rose 0.4 percent
to HK$7.39 at the close of trading today, before the earnings
announcement.  The bank’s outstanding loans climbed to 5.37 trillion yuan
by the end of September, an increase of 14.4 percent from the
beginning of the year. That compares with the 14.7 percent
credit expansion reported by bigger rival  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.   Construction Bank’s capital adequacy ratio narrowed to
11.64 percent as of Sept. 30, from 11.68 percent three months
earlier. That compares with the 11.5 percent minimum regulatory
requirement for the nation’s largest state-owned banks.  Capital Ratios  The China Banking Regulatory Commission said last month it
will publish an “overall framework and road map” for capital
requirements at an “appropriate time.” The watchdog may
require the nation’s “systemically important” lenders to boost
their capital adequacy ratio to as high as 15 percent by the end
of 2012, a person with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Construction Bank’s net interest income, or revenue from
borrowers minus interest paid to depositors, gained 21 percent
to 64.4 billion yuan in the third quarter as the margin widened.
Income from fee-based services gained 22 percent to 15 billion
yuan.  Non-performing loans at Construction Bank fell by
9.5 billion yuan from the end of last year to 62.6 billion yuan
as of Sept. 30, accounting for 1.14 percent of total advances,
even as the Chinese government cracked down on  property 
speculation and local-government financing vehicles.  The bank set aside 2.87 billion yuan in provisions against
bad debts during the quarter, compared with 3.64 billion yuan a
year earlier. Its provision coverage ratio increased to 213
percent of  non-performing loans , higher than the 150 percent
regulatory requirement.  -- Luo Jun ,  Stephanie Tong . Editors:  Chitra Somayaji ,  Ben Richardson .  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-3036 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  