-- China's Almond Hunger Signals California Recovery as Schwarzenegger Leaves
-- B y   S e t h   L u b o v e   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2010-10-29T04:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/china-s-almond-hunger-signals-california-recovery-as-schwarzenegger-leaves.html
The next governor of the most
populous U.S. state may be handed a gift that’s hard to see from
the capitol in Sacramento: the economy.  California’s political dysfunction, epitomized by a record
100-day budget-writing impasse, is overshadowing signs that some
business sectors may be rebounding. Tax revenue came in 15
percent above Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s forecast in
September, and whoever is elected to replace him, Democrat  Jerry Brown  or Republican  Meg Whitman , could be surprised too.  “The economy is going to recover on its own despite the
politics,” said  John Husing , founder of Economics & Politics
Inc., a consulting firm in Redlands, California. “All the
political sector is doing is scaring the hell out of people.”  Among the signals -- obscured by a 12.4 percent
 unemployment  rate -- are rising cargo levels at the Los Angeles
and Long Beach ports complex and construction fueled by
investors from China and Taiwan. There’s a surge in almond and
olive exports from the San Joaquin Valley, which Newsweek last
year characterized as “economic ground zero” in the U.S.
because of foreclosures and an extended drought.  Personal income growth in California -- the world’s  eighth-
largest  economy -- may almost double next year to 3.7 percent,
according to the UCLA Anderson Forecast. Second-quarter
wholesale and retail sales were up 5 percent from the same
period last year, according to the Department of Finance. And
new car registrations rose 15 percent in the first nine months,
California New Car Dealers Association data show.  ‘Love Real Estate’  In the San Gabriel Valley, home to eight of the 10 U.S.
cities with the largest proportion of Chinese Americans, Ronnie
Lam just completed a $200 million, 600,000-square-foot
development in the city of Monterey Park.  Lam, an immigrant from Hong Kong who attended York
University in Toronto, said he saw a market for his project’s
210 condo units from Chinese families who like to buy a pied-à-
terre, or second home, for aging parents. The valley, east of
Los Angeles, was the place to build: The median price of a home
in Monterey Park jumped 11.2 percent in September, according to
the California Association of Realtors.  “Asian people love real estate,” Lam, 54, said during a
tour of his  Atlantic Times Square , which features a 14-screen
AMC movie theater, a Chinese-language bookstore and a Curry
House.  Asians are also helping lift distressed areas. Shenzhen New
World Group Co. of China paid $63 million last March for a
bankrupt 469-room Marriott hotel in downtown Los Angeles, with
plans for as much as $13 million in renovations.  ‘Lots of Jobs’  In San Francisco, Zynga Game Network Inc., the biggest
developer of Facebook applications, signed a seven-year lease
last month for a new headquarters. At 270,000 square feet, it
was the largest commercial deal in the city in almost five
years, said Kelly Pretzer, a project manager for the  Office of
Economic and Workforce Development .  From Central California, almond shipments to China and Hong
Kong grew 91 percent in September and August from a year
earlier, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Its
forecast says annual state olive output may triple to 140,000
tons. The value of all California imports and exports is
expected to climb this year, after imports plunged 21.7 percent
and exports fell 19.4 percent in 2009, according to the Los
Angeles County Economic Development Corp.’s Kyser Center for
Economic Research.  “No one sector is going to turn everything around, but
we’re bringing lots and lots of jobs into the economy,” said
 Art Wong , a spokesman for the Port of Long Beach, which is next
to the Port of Los Angeles.  Housing Bust Hangover  The number of 20-foot containers arriving at the two
busiest U.S. seaports hit 662,154 last month, approaching peak
levels of 2007. Because a rise in traffic generally creates a
like increase in positions, “this could be extra work for close
to 100,000 people,” Wong said.  For all the bright spots, one hangover from the housing
boom’s bust isn’t going away. The number of home-mortgage
default notices grew to 83,261 in the third quarter from 70,051
in the second quarter, MDA DataQuick figures show.  “The reason you don’t see a much better, stronger recovery
is because we’re still working off a huge overhang of unsold
homes and future foreclosures, and local governments are going
to be laying off people for at least the next year,” said
 Stephen Levy , director of the Center for Continuing Study of the
California Economy in Palo Alto. “It’s a tale of two economies
in California.”  Sheer Size  About 400,000 to 500,000 jobs would have to be created
every year for five years to return to a pre-recession jobless
rate of around 5 percent, Levy said, and “that seems very
optimistic.”  The biggest U.S. issuer of municipal debt, California is
rated A- by Standard & Poor’s -- four grades above junk status.
That could change on Nov. 2. Success for a ballot measure ending
the requirement for a supermajority to pass a budget may reduce
“uncertainty about the state’s financial outlook,” Standard &
Poor’s said in an Oct. 25 report. A University of Southern
California/Los Angeles Times  poll  released the same day found 58
percent of likely voters supported the proposition.  Any tax increase would still require a two-thirds majority,
and the next governor faces other challenges, including
government worker pension liabilities that are underfunded by
$42 billion. What’s more, the state just borrowed $6.7 billion
from  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and five other banks to pay delinquent
bills that piled up during the record-length budget deadlock.  ‘Long, Slow Recovery’  California faces annual deficits of as much as $20 billion
through at least the fiscal 2014-15 year, according the
 Legislative Analyst’s Office , a branch of the Legislature. As
much as 60 percent of every additional dollar of revenue from
increased business activity and other sources is mandated to go
to school funding obligations, according to the office.  The UCLA Anderson Forecast released in September doesn’t
see much improvement in the economy until 2011, with the jobless
rate averaging 12.2 percent this year.  “It won’t be a vigorous recovery at the beginning because
the hole is so deep and the damage was so bad,” said Husing,
who specializes in studying the Inland Empire east of Los
Angeles. It has a 14.8 percent unemployment rate, the highest of
any major metropolitan area in the country. “It’s going to be a
long, slow recovery,” he said. “But I see all these positive
little signals all over the place.”  Confidence about California is based in part on its sheer
size: 163,707 square miles, almost 37 million residents and
gross domestic product of some $1.8 trillion. It’s an economy
larger than Brazil, India or Russia, and Los Angeles and four
adjoining counties are responsible for more economic output than
the Netherlands or Turkey.  53 in Escrow  Some manufacturers are expanding.  Skechers USA Inc. , a
shoemaker, is building a new 1.8 million-square-foot
distribution center in Riverside County. A unit of Kyocera Corp.
of Japan is enlarging a plant in San Diego that makes solar
panels.  Kyocera didn’t ask for subsidies or tax breaks because the
company didn’t need them. “The state was like, ‘How come you
didn’t take anything?’” said  Cecilia Aguillon , Kyocera Solar
Inc.’s director of market development and government relations.  Statewide, residential construction permits probably will
grow by 27 percent this year, after a 45 percent decline last
year, according to the  Anderson Forecast . In the San Francisco
Bay Area, home prices rose for 13 straight months through
September, according to MDA Dataquick.  At Atlantic Times Square, developer Lam said 90 percent of
retail space is leased and 53 of the 210 condos are in escrow.
About 6,000 people walked through models for units priced from
$460,000 to $972,000 over two weekends in August and September,
with lines to take the elevator snaking around the corner. Lam
said he gets about 200 visitors every weekend now.  “During construction, we were pretty worried,” he said,
showing off condos featuring heavy use of red paint and fabric,
considered a good-luck color among Chinese. “We asked ourselves
whether we should have started in 2007. Now, instead of tenants
picking us, we can pick the tenants.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Seth Lubove  in Los Angeles at 
 slubove@bloomberg.net ;
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 