-- China Curbs Speculation in Agriculture Futures as Prices Surge to Records
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T10:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/china-curbs-speculation-in-agriculture-futures-as-prices-surge-to-records.html
China’s move to increase margin
limits on agricultural futures including rubber and rice is
aimed at curbing trading risks and containing  inflation  as
prices surge, an analyst at Wanda Futures Co. said today.  “The moves were aimed at cracking down on speculation,
basically their way of discouraging speculative money from
flowing into the exchange-traded commodities,” Axl Wang,
Beijing research manager, at Wanda said by phone. The Shanghai
Futures Exchange today increased the margin limits on natural
rubber to 11 percent from 8 percent.  Rubber, cotton and rice prices in China gained to records
this week as tight supplies stoked their investment appeal.
Inflation gaining at the fastest pace in 23 months and increased
liquidity after government curbs on property investments have
also fueled the rally in commodity prices.  “Speculative money has been flowing into commodities,
partly because of strong inflation expectations,” Wang said.
“Everything around you like apples and herbs are going up so a
lot of investors just buy agricultural commodities.”  The  Shanghai exchange  will lift the rubber futures margin
from Nov. 2, it said in a statement. The move  follows  the
Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange, which this week also raised
margins for rice, wheat, rapeseed oil and sugar.  The Zhengzhou bourse also said that it may force investors
to settle contracts before they expire, restrict positions, or
recommend investigation by the securities watchdog if they
detect the so-called “abnormal trading,” according to a
 statement  on Oct. 26.  Food Prices  China aims to stabilize food costs and rein in excessive
property-price gains in some cities as the economy maintains
momentum, the cabinet said Oct. 27. The government will ensure
adequate grain production and crack down on commodity hoarding,
the State Council said after a meeting chaired by Premier Wen
Jiabao.  Inflation rose to an almost two-year high in September,
while the economic expansion in the third quarter was the
smallest in a year. Chinese policy makers are focused on price
risks even as growth moderates in the  economy  that overtook
Japan’s in size in the second quarter.  The central bank this month raised benchmark interest rates
for the first time since 2007 to rein in inflation and property
speculation. Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent last month from a
year earlier, exceeding the government’s target of 3 percent for
the full year.  China’s indica rice futures gained to successive records
this week with the May-delivery contract reaching 2,523 yuan
($374) a metric ton on Oct. 26 on the Zhengzhou exchange, the
highest level ever. On the same day, cotton reached 27,980 yuan
a ton and rubber in Shanghai climbed to 33,320 yuan a ton, both
records.  -- Feiwen Rong . Editors: Richard Dobson, Jake Lloyd-Smith.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  