-- China Can Agree to U.S. Proposals on Curbing Trade Imbalance, Adviser Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T05:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/china-can-agree-to-u-s-proposals-on-curbing-trade-imbalance-adviser-says.html
China will be able to agree to U.S.
proposals for rebalancing trade and can cut its surplus from
exports “dramatically” within three years, said  Li Daokui , an
academic adviser to the Chinese central bank.  The nation has the “political and economic foundation”
for agreeing to targets for current-account surpluses and
deficits, Li told reporters today at an economic forum in
Beijing. He was commenting on U.S. Treasury  Timothy F. Geithner ’s suggestion that a level of 4 percent of gross
domestic product could be used as a benchmark for judging trade
imbalances.  China is under intensified pressure from major trading
partners including the U.S. and Europe to let its currency
appreciate faster, ahead of a meeting of Group of 20 leaders
next month in South Korea. Talks between G-20 finance ministers
and central bankers this month concluded with a pledge to
examine guidelines for current-account surpluses and deficits
without specifying any goal.  “China should have the confidence to, and is fully capable
of, substantially reducing its trade surplus within three
years,” Li said, adding that “it won’t take five years.”
“China can act on its own initiative to reduce trade surplus
instead of acting under external pressure.”  Li’s comment echoed a pledge made by deputy central bank
governor  Yi Gang  during a meeting of the International Monetary
Fund on Oct. 9. Yi said that China plans to cut its current-
account surplus to below 4 percent of GDP in the next three to
five years, from 5.8 percent in 2009 and 11 percent in 2007.  Broadest Measure  The current account is the broadest measure of trade
because it includes investment and transfer income. Saudi Arabia,
Germany, Russia and China all have surpluses larger than 4
percent, while Turkey and South Africa have deficits bigger than
that, according to the IMF.  Li, a professor at Beijing-based Tsinghua University
with a Harvard University Ph.D in economics, said China didn’t
oppose Geithner’s proposed trade target at the G-20 meeting
earlier this month, citing his own information.  Even as China runs a trade surplus, the nation has curbed
the yuan’s rise to about 2 percent since a June pledge to
introduce more flexibility, arguing anything other than a
gradual appreciation could cause social and economic disruption.
At the same time, the U.S Federal Reserve has sent the dollar
tumbling by leaning toward buying more assets to tackle
unemployment near a 26-year high and weak inflation.  Long-Term Yuan Gains  China needs to let its currency appreciate in the long term,
with the adjustment best dictated by the domestic situation
rather than foreign pressure, Li said today. The world’s
fastest-growing major economy can tolerate a 3 percent to 5
percent gain by the yuan “in nominal terms” based on
historical practice, Li said, without being more specific.  The yuan gained 0.1 percent against the greenback as of
12:30 p.m. today in Shanghai, after weakening for the past three
days. The currency strengthened 21 percent between 2005 and 2008
before the central bank halted the gains during the financial
crisis.  China’s  trade surplus  narrowed 11 percent in the first nine
months through September, customs data showed. The nation’s
current-account surplus as a proportion of GDP narrowed to 5
percent in the first half, according to data from the foreign-
exchange regulator.  -- Zheng Lifei ,  Li Yanping . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Sunil Jagtiani .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net 
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  