-- China Vows to Keep Supplying Rare-Earth Metals to World, South Korea Says
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-29T13:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/china-vows-to-keep-supplying-rare-earth-metals-to-world-south-korea-says.html
China pledged to supply Japan and
other countries with rare-earth metals, sales of which were
reportedly disrupted last month during a territorial dispute
that soured relations between Asia’s two largest economies.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  made the vow during a trilateral
meeting with counterparts from Japan and South Korea, Kim Hee
Jung, a spokeswoman for South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ,
told reporters today in Hanoi. All three are attending meetings
in Vietnam hosted by the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  Wen said “China will continue to supply rare earths to the
international community,” Kim told reporters after the meeting.
Wen said “China will work with major buyers in expanding the
source of rare earths and developing alternative minerals,”
according to Kim.  The vow comes as Japan surveys its companies to see if
China has resumed shipments of rare earth minerals, which are
used in hybrid cars, batteries and missiles. China yesterday
ended an unannounced embargo on exports of rare earths to the
U.S., Europe and Japan, New York Times reported, citing four
industry officials it didn’t identify.  “As of yesterday, there is no information about new cargo
movements,” Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  told
reporters in Tokyo. “The Japanese government intends to use
every opportunity to ask China to improve the situation
regarding export restrictions.”  Cut-off Denied  China had blocked exports to Japan since Sept. 21, and to
the U.S. and Europe on Oct. 18, the New York Times said. China’s
customs bureau today denied cutting off outbound shipments of
rare earths, a group of 17 chemically similar metallic elements
including  cerium  and europium.  China has been reviewing export licenses and other
paperwork for rare-earth shipments, according to a statement
read by an official in the bureau’s news office who declined to
be identified. China in July said it was cutting export quotas
for rare earths by 72 percent for the second half of the year.  Japan urged China today to maintain exports of rare earths
at the same level as last year, Japanese Foreign Ministry
Spokesman Satoru Sato told reporters in Hanoi. China controls
more than 90 percent of world supply, leading Japan, the U.S.
and Germany to seek new supplies.  “Vietnam is one of the potential producers of rare earths,
so we are interested in talking with Vietnam together with other
potential suppliers in order to diversify our source of supply
of rare earth minerals,” Sato said.  Environmental Damage  Prices of rare earths have climbed as much as sevenfold in
the past six months. Greenwood, Colorado-based  Molycorp Inc.  and
Sydney-based  Lynas Corp.  plan to open rare-earth mines in the
U.S. and Australia in the next two years.  China’s Commerce Minister on Oct. 20 pledged to maintain
supplies of rare earths and denied suggestions there was an
embargo on shipments.  The export cuts are related to environmental and
conservation efforts, Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  told
his Japanese counterpart  Seiji Maehara  today in Hanoi, according
to Japan’s Deputy Press Secretary Noriyuki Shikata.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who is attempting to set
up a meeting with Wen while he’s in Hanoi, set aside funds to
find new sources of the metals in a stimulus plan announced
earlier this month.  Yoji Sato , executive vice president of Tokyo-based  Sojitz
Corp. , a trading company, said disruptions are continuing and
the company is looking to diversify its sources of rare earths.
The company plans to begin importing them from Vietnam starting
in 2012.  “We understand that matters dealing with shipping still
aren’t going smoothly in China,” Sato said. “We do believe
that the delay in exports will eventually be cleared.”  Clinton, Obama  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on Oct. 27 called
on China to clarify its policy on rare-earth minerals following
the reports of export curbs. The issue may arise when President
 Barack Obama  meets Chinese counterpart  Hu Jintao  on Nov. 11 at
the start of a meeting of Group of 20 leaders, said  Jeff Bader ,
senior director for Asian affairs on the National Security
Council.  Chinese foreign ministry officials have repeatedly said
they hope to improve ties with Japan after a ship collision in
disputed waters sparked a diplomatic stand-off. Japan detained
the Chinese captain of a fishing boat for two weeks after it
collided with Coast Guard vessels on Sept. 7, near islands known
as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Hanoi at   blim20@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  