-- China Unicom Profit Declines More Than Estimated
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T10:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/china-unicom-third-quarter-profit-falls-more-than-estimated.html
China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. , the
nation’s second-largest mobile-phone company, posted profit that
missed analysts’ estimates because of rising costs to attract
smartphone users.  Third-quarter  net income  fell 73 percent to 742 million
yuan ($111 million) from 2.72 billion yuan a year earlier,
according to figures derived from nine-month earnings reported
today. The Beijing-based company was expected to post profit of
1.1 billion yuan, based on the median of four analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Chairman  Chang Xiaobing  has struggled to take advantage of
his carrier’s role as the only one in China offering Apple
Inc.’s iPhone and third-generation wireless network technology
that analysts say is superior to that of the industry leader,
 China Mobile Ltd.  Unicom’s iPhone 4 rollout last month helped
little as the company still added about 38 percent fewer 3G
users than China Mobile in the third quarter.  “The problem is really the handset subsidy on iPhone 4,”
said  Jim Tang , who rates the shares “outperform” at Shenyin
Wanguo Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The handset subsidy burden
is really there, and the growth of subscriptions is really
low.”  Tang estimates the iPhone 4 subsidy is about 4,000 yuan a
unit.  Fourth Quarterly Drop  The company spent 2.99 billion yuan on handset subsidies in
the first nine months of the year, including 1.82 billion yuan
in the third quarter, it said today. Unicom will spend between 3
billion yuan and 5 billion yuan on the subsidies this year,
President  Lu Yimin  said in May.  Profit fell from a year earlier for a fourth straight
quarter.  Revenue  rose 11 percent to 43 billion yuan from 38.6
billion yuan, beating the median estimate of 42.8 billion yuan
in the Bloomberg survey.  Unicom  fell 0.5 percent to close at HK$11.02 in Hong Kong
trading before the announcement. The shares have gained 7.2
percent this year.  The company added 2.99 million 3G users in the third
quarter for a total of 10.6 million, according to Bloomberg
calculations of company data released this month. China Mobile
added 4.82 million 3G users in the same period, bringing its
total to 15.3 million. Unicom had a total of 162.1 million
mobile subscribers at the end of June, compared with 569.8
million for China Mobile.  “It is confounding why the company only saw such a tiny
increase in 3G net adds,”  Alan Hellawell , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in an Oct. 25 report. He
rates the shares “sell” and doesn’t own any.  China Mobile, the world’s biggest phone carrier by market
value, on Oct. 20 posted third-quarter net income that rose 3.5
percent to 29.6 billion yuan, missing analysts’ estimates.  China Telecom Corp. , the nation’s biggest fixed-line
carrier and third-largest mobile company, yesterday reported
third-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates by rising 27
percent to 3.78 billion yuan.  -- Edmond Lococo . Editors:  Garry Smith ,  Terje Langeland   To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  