-- China Pacific Insurance Third-Quarter Net Income Falls on Greater Reserves
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T15:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/china-pacific-insurance-third-quarter-net-income-falls-on-greater-reserves.html
China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co. ,
the nation’s third-biggest insurer, said third-quarter profit
fell 64 percent as it set aside greater reserves and claims
climbed. The company increased investment in its property unit.  Net income  declined to 886 million yuan ($133 million),
from a revised 2.49 billion yuan a year earlier, the company
said in a statement to the Shanghai stock exchange today.  Pacific Insurance joined bigger rivals including  Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co.  in setting aside more funds last quarter
to cover future claims as bond yields dropped and a stock-market
rally buffered the effect of reserves accumulation on profits.
 Net premiums  earned rose 39 percent to 28.4 billion yuan,
Pacific Insurance said.  Insurance reserves jumped 72 percent to 15.9 billion yuan,
the statement said.  Ping An  reported a 26 percent decline in
third-quarter profit this week, after reserves doubled from a
year earlier.  Pacific Insurance and its partners plan to inject 4.23
billion yuan into its 98 percent-held property insurance unit
through the purchase of 1.84 billion new shares at 2.3 yuan
each, the company said in a  separate exchange filing  today.  Under Chinese accounting-rule changes effective this year,
life insurers are calculating reserves by using the 750-day
average of three-year government bond yields, which dropped
about 15 basis points as of Sept. 30, said  Robert Hu , a
Shanghai-based analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co., as
record bank lending helped drive up bond prices.  -- Zhang Dingmin , with assistance from  Wang Ying . Editors:
 Andreea Papuc ,  Josh Fellman   To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  