-- Colombia Central Bank May Seek to Check Peso's Rally While Pausing at 3%
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 2010-10-29T17:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/colombia-central-bank-may-seek-to-check-peso-s-rally-while-pausing-at-3-.html
Colombia’s central bank may boost
dollar purchases and take other steps to check a rally in the
peso after President  Juan Manuel Santos  expressed concern its
appreciation is hurting exporters and job growth.  The announcement may come after the bank’s monthly meeting
today. Policy makers, led by bank Chief  Jose Dario Uribe , will
vote to keep the benchmark rate at a record low 3 percent for a
sixth month, according to 30 of 32 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Two analysts forecast a rate cut.  Santos, since taking office Aug. 7, has stepped up pressure
on the bank to address the appreciation of the peso, which rose
to a 26-month high on Oct. 7. He has brainstormed with his
finance team as well as with international observers such as
Argentina’s former Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo and Peru’s
former Prime Minister  Pedro Pablo Kuczynski  to come up with what
he calls “bold and creative” measures for the currency.  “Even though the current level of the peso doesn’t warrant
it, the market is counting on measures to ease the peso,” said
 Munir Jalil , chief economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Colombia unit.
“The bank is in a tough spot. Either it makes announcements and
confirms what most of the market is expecting or it waits until
the measures are really needed.”  With  growth  in the $231 billion economy accelerating and
annual  inflation  near the bottom of its 2 percent to 4 percent
target range, the bank’s board even has room to weaken the peso
by cutting the lending rate, said Julian Marquez, an analyst at
Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest brokerage.  Jobs, Capital  In trading today, the peso rose 0.2 percent to 1832.45 per
dollar at 12:58 p.m. New York time, boositng its 2010 gain to
11.5 percent, the second-best performance among the 31 most-
trade currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide after the
Japanese yen, which has gained 15.6 percent.  Colombian business associations said in a letter this month
to the government and central bank that the strong peso
threatens jobs and “jeopardizes the Colombian economy’s
positive outlook.”  Santos expects the economy to grow 6 percent annually
within two years after a 0.4 percent expansion last year. He
intends to create 2.4 million jobs to bring the  jobless rate 
down to single digits from 11.5 percent in September.  “Colombia politically has a peso problem however it’s a
many headed snake and it is not as simple as stronger peso
costing jobs,” said  Rupert Stebbings , head of the Colombian
unit of Chilean brokerage Celfin Capital SA. “It could as
easily be argued that the lack of investment grade could cost
job as well and if the actions taken to combat revaluation are
too radical in investors eyes the rating agencies are unlikely
to be supportive.”  Credit, Inflows, Inflation  Colombia lost its investment grade rating with Moody’s
Investors Service 11 years ago when insurgent violence and a
banking crisis helped trigger six straight quarters of
contraction between 1998 and 1999.  Standard & Poor’s also cut Colombia below investment grade
in 1999.  Steps taken in Brazil, where the real has gained 36 percent
since 2008, boosted speculation Colombia may follow suit and
restrict capital inflows to ease pressure on the currency. Uribe
has maintained that capital controls would only be justified if
and when the benefits outweigh the costs.  Annual inflation  was 2.28 percent in September, near the
five-decade low of 1.84 percent posted in March.  According to the median forecast of 45 economists in a
 central bank survey  this month, inflation will close 2010 at
2.74 percent. Consumer prices will rise 3.42 percent in 2011,
according to the median estimate of 37 economists.  Government Response  Steps Colombia may take to stem the peso’s rally include
seeking to limit borrowing from abroad, Jalil said.  Uribe may make unannounced direct purchases of dollars in
the market without any pre-determined amounts, known as
“discretionary purchases,” said  Julian Ramirez , an analyst at
Bogota-based brokerage Proyectar Valores SA.  The bank also will likely be “more aggressive” in its
dollar purchases, Bank of America economist  Alejandro Rivera 
wrote in a report Oct. 26.  Policy makers and the government have already taken a slew
of measures aimed at slowing the peso’s appreciation.  Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  on Oct. 13 said the
government would keep two dividend payments worth $1.4 billion
from state oil company  Ecopetrol SA  abroad instead of converting
the dollars into local currency.  $20 Million a Day  The central bank has been purchasing “at least” $20
million daily in the spot market since Sept. 15 and will do so
for “at least” four months to ease peso gains.  “The use of the phrase ‘at least’ certainly helped,” said
Marquez. “The fact that the purchases could go on well beyond
four months means investors won’t look at the calendar and
speculate.”  In a bid to stem a rally in the peso in 2007, the central
bank ordered companies and investors taking loans abroad to
deposit 40 percent of the funds in the central bank for six
months to reduce the incentive to bring in short-term capital.  The Finance Ministry imposed deposit requirements of 50
percent for two years on new portfolio investment in the
country, such as the purchase of bonds and stocks. The capital
controls were abolished in 2008.  The regulations were unpopular with investors who said they
discouraged investment and did little to slow the peso.  Colombia will attract around $10 billion in foreign direct
investment this year and more than $1.2 billion in portfolio
investment, Bogota-based brokerage Corredores Asociados said in
a report last month.  The nation received $7.2 billion of foreign direct
investment in 2009 -- of which 80 percent went into oil, coal
and mining -- after a record $10.6 billion the previous year,
according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ; 