-- Colombia Extends Daily Dollar Purchases for Two Months, Keeps Rate at 3%
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 2010-10-29T20:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/colombia-s-central-bank-maintains-rate-at-record-low-3-for-sixth-month.html
Colombia’s central bank announced
plans to extend purchases of dollars in the spot currency market
to stem a rally in the peso as policy makers kept the benchmark
interest rate at a record low for a sixth straight month.  The seven-member board, led by bank President  Jose Dario Uribe , held the interbank rate at a record low 3 percent,
matching the forecast of 30 of 32 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The bank will continue to purchase “at least” $20
million a day “at least” through March 15, two months longer
than previously planned, Uribe said today.  “The bank obviously believes the interest rate is good
enough for sustained economic recovery,” said Julian Marquez,
an analyst at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest brokerage.  Economists had expected the central bank would announce
steps to check a rally in the peso after President  Juan Manuel Santos  expressed concern its appreciation is hurting exporters
and job growth. Two economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast the bank would cut rates to ease pressure on the peso,
which rose to a 26-month high on Oct. 7.  Santos has brainstormed with his finance team as well as
with international observers such as Argentina’s former Economy
Minister Domingo Cavallo and Peru’s former Prime Minister  Pedro Pablo Kuczynski  to come up with what he calls “bold and
creative” measures for the currency.  With  growth  in the $231 billion economy accelerating and
annual  inflation  near the bottom of its 2 percent to 4 percent
target range, the bank can focus on the peso, Marquez said.  Jobs, Capital  The central bank said efforts to keep a lid on the peso had
been “successful” so far. It added that on Oct. 14 it
strengthened the instruments it has to buy dollars. Policy
makers also said they support government efforts to reduce the
fiscal deficit.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 1,838.75 per dollar today,
putting its 2010 gain to 11.2 percent, the second-best
performance among the 31 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg worldwide after the Japanese yen.  Colombian business associations said in a letter this month
to the government and central bank that the strong peso
threatens jobs and “jeopardizes the Colombian economy’s
positive outlook.”  Santos expects the economy to grow 6 percent annually
within two years after a 0.4 percent expansion last year. He
intends to create 2.4 million jobs to bring the  jobless rate 
down to single digits from 11.5 percent in September.  The central bank today forecast economic growth of close to
4.5 percent for next year.  Inflation Outlook  Steps taken in Brazil, where the real has gained 36 percent
since 2008, boosted speculation Colombia may follow suit and
restrict capital inflows to ease pressure on the currency. Uribe
has maintained that capital controls would only be justified if
and when the benefits outweigh the costs.  Annual inflation  was 2.28 percent in September, near the
five-decade low of 1.84 percent posted in March.  According to the median forecast of 45 economists in a
 central bank survey  this month, inflation will close 2010 at
2.74 percent. Consumer prices will rise 3.42 percent in 2011,
according to the median estimate of 37 economists.  Policy makers and the government have already taken a slew
of measures aimed at slowing the peso’s appreciation.  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry on Oct. 13 said the
government would keep two dividend payments worth $1.4 billion
from state oil company  Ecopetrol SA  abroad instead of converting
the dollars into local currency.  The central bank has been purchasing at least $20 million
daily in the spot market since Sept. 15.  Dollar Purchases  In a bid to stem a rally in the peso in 2007, the central
bank ordered companies and investors taking loans abroad to
deposit 40 percent of the funds in the central bank for six
months to reduce the incentive to bring in short-term capital.  The Finance Ministry imposed deposit requirements of 50
percent for two years on new portfolio investment in the
country, such as the purchase of bonds and stocks. The capital
controls were abolished in 2008.  The regulations were unpopular with investors who said they
discouraged investment and did little to slow the peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  