-- Colombia Peso Posts Biggest Monthly Drop in 2010 on Measures to Stop Rally
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-10-29T18:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/colombia-peso-posts-biggest-monthly-drop-in-2010-on-measures-to-stop-rally.html
Colombia’s peso posted its biggest
monthly drop this year on speculation the central bank will
announce additional steps to ease the currency’s rally.  Investors are betting Banco de la Republica will announce
further measures following today’s monetary policy meeting after
President  Juan Manuel Santos  said the nation will take more
steps this week.  “All bets are in,” said Andres Munoz, head currency
trader at Corporacion Financiera Colombiana SA in Bogota. “The
market is calm waiting for the outcome” of the meeting.  The peso plunged 2 percent in October, its biggest decline
since December. It closed down 0.1 percent today at 1,838.75 per
U.S. dollar at 2 p.m. New York time, from 1,836.20 yesterday.  Rising dollar inflows from  foreign direct investment ,
increased borrowing from abroad and purchases of stocks and
bonds by overseas investors pushed the peso to jump 11.2 percent
this year. That’s the third-best performance after the Iceland
krona and Thai baht among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The peso earlier gained as much as 0.5 percent today as
traders bet policy makers will avoid taking currency measures.  ‘Artillery’  Banco de la Republica may choose not to announce any
measures and reserve “this sort of ‘artillery’ for other
times,” Barclays Capital economist  Jimena Zuniga  wrote in a
report today.  “The market was getting too ahead of itself,” said  Camilo Perez , head analyst at Banco de Bogota, Colombia’s second-
biggest bank. “People were very creative in thinking up what
measures could be announced today, but now at these levels, it’s
not clear they will.”  Perez, who forecasts Banco de la Republica will seek to
limit borrowing from abroad, said he now sees a lower chance
that capital controls will be announced today.  Interbolsa, Colombia’s biggest brokerage, said in a report
this week that policy makers may opt to cut the  overnight
lending rate  50 basis points to 2.5 percent from a record low of
3 percent.  In a bid to ease the peso’s gains the central bank said
Sept. 15 it will buy a minimum of $20 million daily for at least
four months. The government also said earlier this month it will
keep overseas $1.4 billion equivalent to the August and December
dividend payments from state oil company Ecopetrol SA.  Colombia’s central bank will likely be “more aggressive”
in its dollar purchases, Bank of America economist  Alejandro Rivera  wrote in a report Oct. 26.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.01
percent today, according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The
bond’s price rose 0.150 centavo to 127.395 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  