-- Congressman McCarthy Says Republicans Will Win House Majority (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2010-10-29T20:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/congressman-mccarthy-says-republicans-will-win-house-majority-transcript-.html
U.S. Representative Kevin
McCarthy of California, chief recruiter of candidates in
the campaign to retake the U.S. House, said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with Al Hunt”
airing this weekend that his party will win the chamber
next week and could gain as many as 59 seats.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with the architect of the
Republican 2010 campaign to take control of the House,
Congressman Kevin McCarthy of California, who’s at the GOP
headquarters in San Luis Obispo.  Thank you for coming on the show, congressman. We will
-  REPRESENTATIVE KEVIN MCCARTHY: Thanks for having me.  HUNT: Mike Allen, the insider’s insider, says that
next Tuesday Republicans will pick up 59 House seats. Will
you do that well or better?  MCCARTHY: Well, I think we will do quite well. I’m not
sure that we’ll go that high. A lot of things are trending
well for us, but I do believe we’ll capture the majority.  HUNT: You’ll capture the majority and you could
approach 59?  MCCARTHY: We could post as high as 59.  HUNT: OK. Let me ask you this. Many of the members
that you’re electing are running on a program that we’re
going to adhere to principle. As your colleague, Mike
Pence, says, “No compromise.” Let me show you a Bloomberg
poll this week that finds voters by 80 to 16, 5 to 1
margin, and they - they said they’re going to vote
Republican, but they say if you win control of Congress
that they rather you work together, even if it means
compromising principles, than sticking to those principles
and having gridlock.  What’s it going to be, seeking common ground or
refusing to budge on principles?  MCCARTHY: Well, I think what you’re going to find is
that we need to have solutions. And the first thing out
there, the American public wants to see spending taken care
of. And Republicans have laid out a pledge to America where
we will allow it to get a balanced budget back into place
on a direction and get this country back under control.
That is a principle that I think America wants to see
happen, and that’s something that we will fight for.  HUNT: OK, that first - that first commitment, $100
billion of cuts, you have pledged that, the pledge to
America, which you helped draft, 21 percent cut in
discretionary domestic programs, exempting some. If you do
that, let me ask you specifically: Are you willing to cut
Pell Grants for middle-class college students by $4 million
or $5 million or cut the NIH budget for research for cancer
and Alzheimer’s by $6 billion?  MCCARTHY: Well, see, people go out and pick the
special little places. Discretionary spending has gone up
88 percent. We have a $1.4 trillion deficit. We can’t cut
$100 billion, how are we ever going to get to a balanced
budget?  HUNT: Well, let me ask you this -  MCCARTHY: You crawl before you walk.  HUNT:  - are Pell Grants and NIH funding on the table
then, for those cuts?  MCCARTHY: I think we would look at all discretionary
spending outside of security. And what it would be - you
could find so many other places to cut before you even
touch those, when you deal with $100 billion. So one thing
that we have found is, with discretionary spending in the
last three years going up 88 percent, there are so many
other places to cut before putting the fear into the
American public and how we would spend the money.  HUNT: Well, that fear is being put into the public, I
suppose, by Democrats who say what you’re going to do,
you’re going to cut things, and you have to go to programs
like education - that’s a big chunk of that $477 billion -
and health care, and you’re going to do that in order to
finance tax cuts for the rich. As you know, that’s the
charge.  MCCARTHY: Well, that’s the charge of what the
Democrats see, but the one thing we have found - in four
short years, we’ve gone from $161 billion deficit to 1.4.
We have found unemployment for the last 14 consecutive
months above 9.5 percent. You have to go back to the 1930s
to find that.  You have found that for the first time since the
Budget Act of 1974 was passed the government has no budget,
and we have a $1.4 trillion deficit. We can find ways to
curb our spending. We found a stimulus plan that the
president promised us unemployment would never go above 8
percent, and it has. We have the American public saying
more people believe Elvis is alive than the stimulus
created jobs. We need to get America working again, curb
our spending, and actually make the private sector grow.  We can go line by line. We can go from department by
department. The best way to do it is go to each department,
8 cents out of every dollar. Who can’t find that? Every
household in America has had to be able to do this. But,
no, in government, your spending has actually increased by
88 percent just in the last -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Well, I’m going to stay on that just for a
second. If you do that 8 cents - you can go to the NIH with
$32 billion - or are you going to cut $3 billion from the
NIH budget then?  MCCARTHY: Well, the one thing I would find is we could
find savings in other places to actually fund in. Now, is
all the funding in the NIH going to actually research? Are
there places (inaudible) because we have found other places
where they have provided grants to a professor at UCLA for
- I think it’s $65,000 to study the health care vote to see
if congressional members voted upon lines of breaks (ph).
Now, is that the best use of money?  Government could find better uses and make sure the
money is spent more efficiently. And that means going line
by line. That’s something the promise - the president
promised, and we’re more than willing to sit down and make
that happen.  HUNT: Congressman, I think most people agree you’re
going to engineer a huge victory on Tuesday and then about
10 days later or 2 weeks later, Congress is coming back for
a lame-duck session. With Republicans having scored a big
victory on November 2, will anything be done in a lame-duck
session or should it be canceled?  MCCARTHY: Well, no, I think you have to have a lame-
duck session. Here we are - have a Congress that left town
with a tax system just leaving in limbo, where American
public doesn’t know where to go. We have to deal with the
tax structure.  I would say you don’t raise taxes in a recession. You
extend where you’re going. We have where we have not had a
budget. They’ll do a continuing resolution, I envision. But
we have to end the uncertainty so that trillion dollars
that is sitting on the sideline can invest back into
America.  We have to hit the ground running. And that’s why the
pledge to America would actually lay out the first bills
that we would fight for to get passed in America.  HUNT: As you know, they have - you’ve - they’ve drawn
the lines, you and the Democrats, on this tax cut issue. If
it is taken up in a lame-duck session - because if it’s
not, taxes go up for everybody next year - is there a
middle ground? Would you be willing, for instance, to
consider cutting the taxes on the upper tier for, say, only
one year? Or would you be willing to raise that $250,000 to
$500,000? What kind of compromise is possible?  MCCARTHY: Well, what I see is the best compromise is
not to raise taxes in a recession. And if you think about
it, what is the bipartisan position? There are 37 sitting
Democrats today who signed a letter who say extend it
exactly as it is. You only need 39 to pass it, so how many
others who didn’t sign the letter would be willing to vote
for it?  HUNT: So no compromise on the - on the upper income?  MCCARTHY: When you look at raising that - well, we
have unemployment at 9.5 percent for a consecutive 14
months. You have to go back to the ‘30s to find the same
time. If you raise that limit, you’re raising it on small
business. Most small businesses run as an S corporation. If
that was to take place, small business, which accounts for
70 percent of all new job growth, would have a higher tax
increase and a higher tax burden than corporations, and
corporations pay the second highest in the nation. That
would hold America back, would hold back the job growth.  I think the best perspective here is end the
uncertainty, give an extension, and start focusing on
small-business growth and end the uncertainty when it comes
to regulation in government and start this country moving
again.  HUNT: You have been the architect of this expected
great success next Tuesday. Will you be the majority whip
when Republicans take control of the House?  MCCARTHY: Look, the worst thing that happens in
politics (ph) if people measure the drapes ahead of time.
We’re going to take this day by day. We’re going to go out,
win the majority -  HUNT: So you’re not necessarily running for whip or
you are?  MCCARTHY: I think the one thing we’ll see, that’s a
decision that gets made after the election. That job won’t
even be there if you don’t get a majority. So if you don’t
look at winning the election first, there’s no use of
wondering about something else happening.  HUNT: Let me take one more advantage of that great
McCarthy antenna. Give me one surprise we’re going to have
next - early next Wednesday morning, one race that no one
has seen that they’ll say, oh, my gosh, McCarthy really
pulled it off, that was a huge upset?  MCCARTHY: I think you’re going to look from, one,
Virginia and Ohio, but let’s go right to California where
they think every race in California is safely drawn. In the
Central Valley, Jim Costa of the 20th District is going to
lose, and no one’s been watching it, and it hasn’t been on
anybody’s radar screen as of late.  HUNT: Well, Kevin McCarthy, thank you. You have been a
seer on this issue, and we’ll see now what happens next
Tuesday, and we hope to have you on after the election.  And when we return, we’ll talk to Robert Menendez,
chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-
PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF
THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<610771.1204164.2.1.69.30975.25>#
-0- Oct/29/2010 20:39 GMT
 