-- Black Loses Appeal on 2 of 4 Counts, Could Face Prison
-- B y   A n d r e w   M   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-29T21:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/conrad-black-s-convictions-upheld-on-2-of-4-charges-resentencing-ordered.html
Conrad Black , the former Hollinger
International Inc. chairman, lost his appeal of two convictions
while winning reversal of two others in a ruling that may send
him back to prison.  A guilty verdict for obstruction of justice, for which he
received the longest sentence, was upheld today by a U.S. Court
of Appeals in Chicago, as was one of three fraud convictions.  “There’s nothing to indicate, based on what is in this
opinion, that the obstruction would be impacted in any way or
that that sentence would be impacted,” said  Mark A. Flessner , a
former federal prosecutor now in the Chicago office of SNR
Denton US LLP. “Judge St. Eve may very well just impose the
same sentence with respect to Black.”  A three-judge appeals panel set aside two other fraud
counts. It said prosecutors can retry Black, 66, and his co-
defendants on those charges.  “Today’s decision was all that could have been expected
and is a gratifying elimination of the main remaining charges,”
Black’s office said in a statement. “All of the defendants are
innocent of all allegations, civil and criminal, and are
reviewing the next steps in this very long and exacting process
of achieving complete vindication.”  2007 Conviction  The ex-publisher and author, along with three other
Hollinger executives, was convicted in 2007 of participating in
the theft of $6.1 million from the Chicago-based newspaper
company.  Under his leadership, first as chief executive officer,
then as chairman, Hollinger was the world’s third-largest
publisher of English language newspapers. Its holdings included
the Chicago Sun-Times, Canada’s National Post, the U.K.’s Daily
Telegraph and the Jerusalem Post. Hollinger is now known as  Sun-
Times Media Group Inc.   Black and the other men were accused of skimming money from
the company’s sale of some of its assets, disguising the money
as payments for agreeing not to compete with the new owners.  The obstruction-of-justice charge was for removing boxes
from his Toronto office which prosecutors said contained
documents sought in a U.S. government investigation.  Freed in July  U.S. District Judge  Amy St. Eve  in Chicago, who presided
over the trial, sentenced Black to 6 1/2 years in prison for the
obstruction count and five years on the fraud counts, with
sentences to run concurrently. He served more than two years
before being freed on bail in July during his appeal.  The appeals court today upheld the convictions of Black and
two other men for the theft of $600,000.  Black and the other executives can be retried on the two
charges for which convictions were voided, said today’s opinion,
written by Circuit Judge  Richard Posner . Prosecutors may wish to
conserve resources and proceed directly to the resentencing, he
wrote.  The court gave St. Eve the option of considering the facts
underlying the now-voided convictions at resentencing even if
there is no retrial on those counts.  That leeway may allow the judge to send Black back to
prison in Coleman, Florida,  Flessner , the ex-prosecutor, said
today in a telephone interview. “There’s nothing in the opinion
that prevents her from doing so,” he said.  Government Intentions  The government will tell the trial court of its intentions
“at the appropriate time after we have studied the opinion
carefully,” the Justice Department said in a statement.  “We will be reviewing the court’s opinion and will proceed
as appropriate,” Black’s appellate counsel,  Miguel Estrada , a
partner in the Washington office of Los Angeles-based Gibson,
Dunn & Crutcher LLP, said in a phone interview.  The Supreme Court in June returned the case to the Chicago
appeals panel after narrowing the scope of the federal honest-
services fraud statute under which Black and his co-defendants
were convicted.  In a separate case prosecuted under the same statute,
former Enron Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling  won
a chance to contest his convictions.  Attorneys for Black and the other Hollinger executives
argued it was impossible to tell which of two possible theories
the jury had considered in finding the men guilty -- pecuniary
fraud or honest-services fraud.  California Subsidiary  The appeals court judges agreed in part, vacating the
convictions for taking $5.5 million as purported payment for
promising not to compete with the American Publishing Co., a
single-newspaper Hollinger subsidiary in Mammoth Lake,
California.  While the court said Hollinger’s board was never told of
the payments, the jury may yet convicted them for depriving the
company and its shareholders of their right to the men’s honest
services rather than for the theft itself.  “That is unlikely, but no stronger assertion is
possible,” Posner said.  “There was no acquittal on the APC counts,” the court
noted parenthetically, “just an error warranting -- barely -- a
retrial.”  The other executives whose cases were decided today were
former Vice President  Peter Atkinson , former Chief Financial
Officer  John Boultbee  and former General Counsel  Mark Kipnis .  The cases are U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, U.S. v. Atkinson, 08-
1030, U.S. v. Boultbee, 08-1072 and U.S. v. Kipnis, 08-1106,
U.S. 7th Circuit Court of Appeals (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 