-- Constellation Reports Third-Quarter Loss After EDF Deal; Misses Estimates
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-10-29T14:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/constellation-reports-third-quarter-loss-after-edf-deal-misses-estimates.html
Constellation Energy Group Inc. , the
Baltimore-based utility owner, reported a third-quarter loss of
$1.41 billion as it wrote down the value of its stake in nuclear
plants jointly owned with  Electricite de France  SA.  The loss was $6.99 a share, compared with net income of
$137.6 million, or 69 cents, a year earlier, Constellation said
today in a statement. Excluding expenses related to its nuclear
joint ventures and a gain from a plant sale, Constellation would
have earned 48 cents a share, 16 cents less than the average
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales fell 1.5
percent to $3.97 billion.  “Power prices are down, hedged power prices are down, and
they’d sold 50 percent of their nuclear generation,”  Angie Storozynski , a New York-based analyst for Macquarie Capital USA
Inc., said today in a telephone interview. She rates the stock
“outperform” and doesn’t own any shares.  Profit was reduced 14 cents by quarterly adjustments to the
value of contracts used to lock in the prices and cost of
electricity and gas Constellation sells, Chief Financial Officer
 Jonathan W. Thayer  said today on an investor call.  The shares fell 47 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $30.37 at
10:54 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before
today, the shares, which have three buy ratings from analysts,
eight holds and a sell, had fallen 12 percent this year.  Annual Profit Forecast  Constellation affirmed a full-year profit forecast of $3.05
to $3.45 a share. The average  estimate  is $3.23 among 11
analysts. It also affirmed the 2011 forecast of $3.25 to $3.65 a
share. The average estimate is $3.40 among 11 analysts.  Slumping power prices slashed the value of Constellation’s
stake in three nuclear plants co-owned with Paris-based  EDF  by
$1.35 billion, or $6.70 a share, the company said. Forecasts of
low future power prices prompted the company to withdraw from
talks on a government loan guarantee for a new reactor in
Maryland. EDF agreed Oct. 26 to pay about $249 million for
Constellation’s stake in the companies’ nuclear venture.  A writedown of that venture, UniStar Nuclear Energy,
reduced results for the quarter by $86.3 million, or 43 cents,
and the company also wrote down stakes in three coal-burning
power plants in California by $32.5 million. It had a 12 cent
per-share gain on the sale of its stake in a geothermal plant in
California to partner  Ormat Technologies Inc . for $72.5 million.  Falling Prices  EDF in July recorded a first-half charge of 1.1 billion
euros ($1.52 billion) on its Constellation-related holdings
because of a “less favorable” outlook for power prices for
existing power generators and for a planned new nuclear reactor
in Maryland.  The price of electricity to be generated during times of
peak demand in 2013 in the largest U.S. power market, PJM
Interconnection LLC, has  dropped 11 percent  this year to $53.75
a megawatt-hour as the price of natural gas, a power-plant fuel,
dropped 29 percent.  EDF, the largest nuclear operator, announced Oct. 26 it
would pay Constellation $140 million in cash and surrender 3.5
million Constellation shares for full ownership of UniStar, the
development venture. Constellation agreed to forgo its right
under a previous contract, or put option, to force EDF to buy
stakes in its non-nuclear plants for $2 billion.  Value of the settlement to Constellation is “roughly
economically the same” as the put option, Chief Executive
Officer  Mayo Shattuck  said today on the investor call. The
settlement includes a revised agreement for sale of power that
will lower costs for Constellation’s retail-energy unit, Chief
Financial Officer Thayer said.  It also avoids litigation, as EDF had said it would contest
an exercise of the put option, Thayer said.  The two remain partners in Constellation Energy Nuclear
Group, owner of a plant in Maryland and two plants in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 