-- Copper Declines, Paring Fourth Monthly Climb, as Dollar Gains Against Euro
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-10-29T16:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/copper-declines-paring-fourth-monthly-advance-as-the-dollar-strengthens.html
Copper fell in New York, paring a
fourth monthly gain, as a stronger dollar eroded demand for
industrial metals as an alternative investment.  The dollar climbed against the euro before the Federal
Reserve meets next week to discuss monetary policy and possible
quantitative easing, or steps to support growth. The U.S.
economy expanded at a 2 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, the Commerce Department in Washington said.  “Markets are bracing themselves for the Fed meeting next
week, which will shed light on the quantitative-easing program,
and are still trading against the dollar,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London.  Copper for delivery in December slid 5.5 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $3.7325 a pound at 12:12 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices are up 2.2 percent this month.  A stronger dollar makes metals priced in the currency more
expensive in terms of other monies. An advance this month for
copper would be the longest winning streak since the four months
through August 2009.  Workers at Anglo American Plc and  Xstrata Plc ’s Collahuasi
copper mine, the world’s fourth-biggest, are prepared to
continue wage negotiations after rejecting a company offer,
union secretary Juan Antonio Barraza said yesterday. The mine is
in Chile, the largest copper-producing nation.  “The combination of a potential strike at Collahuasi and
the launch of copper exchange-traded funds is adding to what is
already a bullish outlook for copper,” said  Dan Major , an
analyst at RBS Global Banking & Markets in London. “Despite
these fundamental factors, dollar strength will likely lead to
further copper-price weakness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 