-- Corn Fluctuates on Report China Rejects U.S. Cargo, Bets on USDA Forecast
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-29T17:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/corn-fluctuates-on-report-china-rejects-u-s-cargo-bets-on-usda-forecast.html
Corn futures fluctuated on reports
that China rejected a U.S. cargo of genetically modified grain,
while speculation mounted that the U.S. Department of
Agriculture may cut its output estimate for the domestic crop.  Quarantine officials in China, the world’s largest grain
consumer, rejected a corn cargo of as much as 60,000 metric tons
this month because it contained a strain of a modified variety
that isn’t approved for use in the country, Reuters reported,
citing two unidentified people. The USDA will update its output
projection on Nov. 9.  “At present, it doesn’t work to import U.S. corn
profitably into China because domestic prices are too low,”
said  Charles Sernatinger , a vice president at ABN Amro Clearing
LLC in Chicago. “That’s probably the reason the cargo was
rejected, even though they said it was because it was GMO.”  Corn futures for December delivery rose 1.75 cents to
$5.8075 a bushel at 11:59 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Earlier, the price dropped as much as 1.4 percent.  The price headed for the biggest monthly gain since June
2008 after the USDA slashed its estimate for domestic production
for the second straight month on Oct. 8 as hot weather curbed
yields. The agency may make further cuts, said  Dale Durchholz ,
the senior analyst for AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington, Illinois.  “The expectations are that the USDA is going to lose more
corn,” said  William Bayer , a partner at PTI Securities in
Chicago. Lower production “could be a catalyst for the corn
market for the next month or two,” he said.  This month, the USDA said that production fell to 12.664
billion bushels from last year’s record 13.11 billion.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion last
year, government figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 