-- Corn’s 2-Year High Fails to Curb Ethanol Profit: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 2010-10-29T20:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/corn-s-gain-to-two-year-high-fails-to-curb-ethanol-profit-energy-markets.html
The highest corn costs in two years
are failing to dent profits for U.S. ethanol producers as demand
grows and prices for the biofuel and a byproduct used for animal
feed increase.  Plants in Iowa are making an average 27 cents for every
gallon of fuel produced, compared with a loss of 6 cents as
recently as July, according to Ag Trader Talk, an online grains-
information service in Clive, Iowa. Mills in Illinois are making
about 25 cents, up from a loss of 2 cents, it said.  A combination of increased ethanol usage, higher prices for
 dried distillers grains  -- a byproduct of the fermentation
process -- and natural gas costs near a 13-month low are
benefitting ethanol refiners. The fuel jumped 20 percent this
year, the second-best energy investment after coal, which has
gained 35 percent. Corn, the main feedstock, rose 40 percent.  “If you’re not making money in ethanol right now, you have
a problem with your production process,” said  Jason Ward , an
analyst at Northstar Commodity Investments LLC in Minneapolis.
“They’ve got three of the four main components working in their
favor.”  Denatured ethanol for November delivery, the benchmark
contract, rose to $2.339 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade,
the highest price since Aug. 29, 2008. Futures gained 47 percent
since July 14. Corn climbed to $5.82 a bushel on the CBOT. The
grain traded at $5.88 on Oct. 13, the most since Aug. 29, 2008.  Higher Prices  Dried distillers grains, which are used by feedlots and
dairy farmers, have soared 43 percent to $146.50 a ton in Iowa,
according to U.S. Agriculture Department data. They touched
$148.50 on Oct. 15, the highest price since Sept. 2, 2008.
Natural gas, used as a power source to produce ethanol, has
declined 28 percent to $4.038 per million British thermal units
on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  “Margins are phenomenal right now,” said  Chris Manns , an
analyst and co-founder at Chicago Traders Group. “These are the
best they’ve seen in a while. It’s almost a case of: we don’t
mind $6 corn as long as ethanol stays above $2.”  Ethanol is made by fermenting starches from corn to create
an alcohol similar to moonshine. Under a 2007 energy law known
as the Renewable Fuels Standard, or RFS, the U.S. requires
petroleum refiners to use 12 billion gallons of the fuel this
year and 15 billion gallons by 2015. Blending with gasoline rose
8.5 percent since June to a record 817,000 barrels a day in the
week ended Oct. 22, Energy Department  data  show.  “The numbers don’t lie,” Ward said. “The one thing that
has been constant every week is we’re using more ethanol than we
did a year ago.”  Corn Crop  Corn has surged as the government slashed yield forecasts.
Farms will produce 155.8 bushels an acre, the Washington-based
Agriculture Department said Oct. 8, compared with an August
estimate of 165 bushels.  Oil refiners had expected to pay less for ethanol earlier
this year on optimism a stronger  corn crop  would curb the costs
of producing the fuel, according to  Harry Boyle , an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Blenders remain obliged to mix the fuel with gasoline due
to the RFS and they appear to have been waiting for the corn
price to fall away after encouraging harvest reports,” Boyle
said in an interview in London.  Ethanol demand has also been driven by blending incentives
that expire at the end of this year. The government pays a 45-
cent tax credit to refiners for every gallon that’s mixed with
gasoline while imposing a 54-cent tariff on Brazilian imports of
the fuel.  The tax credit allows blenders to pocket the difference
between gasoline and the biofuel. Ethanol traded at a 23.45-cent
premium to reformulated gasoline on the New York Mercantile
Exchange today.  Blending Margins  There are 204 ethanol distilleries in the U.S. with the
capacity to produce 13.8 billion gallons of the fuel annually,
according to the  Renewable Fuels Association  in Washington, the
industry’s largest trade organization.  “There’s a misconception among the general public and a
lot of people in the financial community,” said Mark Marquis,
president of  Marquis Energy LLC , which operates a 110-million
gallon plant in Hennepin, Illinois. “They assume if corn goes
up life must be terrible for the ethanol producer and that’s not
the case.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
 Leela Landress  in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  