-- Credit Growth in South Africa Accelerates After Reserve Bank Cuts Key Rate
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-29T08:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/credit-growth-in-south-africa-accelerates-after-reserve-bank-cuts-key-rate.html
South African credit growth
accelerated to an annual 4.4 percent in September after the
central bank cut its benchmark interest rate for the second time
this year, spurring consumer spending.  The growth in  borrowing  by households and businesses rose
from 3 percent in August, the Pretoria-based Reserve Bank said
on its website today. The  median estimate  of 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a gain of 4.2 percent.  The Reserve Bank cut its main lending  rate  by half a
percentage point to 6 percent last month, the eighth reduction
since December 2008. That has allowed commercial banks to lower
borrowing costs to a 30-year low, easing repayments and fueling
a recovery in consumer spending. Rising credit demand hasn’t
added to inflation pressure as the rand’s gains help to curb
price growth, adding to expectations of more interest rate cuts.  “Today’s favorable credit-growth momentum, together with a
barrage of data released this week supporting a lower interest-
rate profile, strengthens our view that the Reserve Bank may cut
interest rates by 50 basis points at the November meeting,”
Shireen Darmalingam, an economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, said in a note to clients.  Inflation  slowed to an annual 3.2 percent in September,
close to the lower end of the bank’s target range for inflation
of 3 percent to 6 percent, the statistics office said on Oct.
27.  Producer prices  rose 6.8 percent in September from a year
ago, lower than the 8.2 percent median forecast of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The rand, which has gained about 9 percent against the
dollar since June 1, was trading at 7.0220 as of 9:32 a.m. in
Johannesburg from 7.0150 before the data was released.  The broad  M3  measure of money supply increased an annual
5.1 percent in September, from 4.4 percent in August, the
central bank said. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was
for M3 to expand 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 