-- Ghoulish Crypt Crawl, Phantogram, Hip Halloween: N.Y. Weekend
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/crypt-crawl-with-ghouls-phantogram-halloween-freaks-great-n-y-weekend.html
Start Halloween weekend with the
ghoul procession at the Cathedral Church of Saint John the
Divine.  The rampaging demons and ghouls have been ordered up from
the Mettawee River Theater Company and share the evening with
two showings of that 1920 silent film classic “The Cabinet of
Dr. Caligari,” (accompanied live on the Great Organ).  At 7 p.m. and 10 p.m.  There’s also a Saturday Crypt Crawl where you can ponder
the origins of All Hallows Eve.  The Cathedral is located at 1047 Amsterdam Ave.
Information: +1-212-932-7347;  http://www.stjohndivine.org/   Friday Night  Go hear hip electro group Phantogram play the Music Hall of
Williamsburg.  Phantogram compares favorably to The xx, since keyboardist
Sarah Barthel and guitarist Joshua Carter trade vocal
responsibility.  With its multiple layers of rhythmic samples, their pulsing
shoegaze feels dreamy rather than icy. Squeaks, squawks, blips
and bleeps roil around their tracks and carry you along into a
pulsing haze.  Expect heavy, sexy beats, feedback and Sarah’s seductively
chastising voice: “You’re getting high on your own supply.”  Music Hall of Williamsburg is at 66 North 6th St.,
Brooklyn. Information:
 http://www.musichallofwilliamsburg.com/event/5142   Saturday  Roy Lichtenstein ’s in town. Start at the  Leo Castelli 
gallery’s “Mostly Men,” an exhibit focusing on the often
disguised male presence in the artist’s work.  Then head to the  Morgan Library  for Lichtenstein’s black-
and-white drawings, shown for the first time in a single
installation. You’ll be amused by his take on everything from
turkey and baked potatoes to foot medication and Alka Seltzer.  Finally,  Mitchell-Innes & Nash  gallery in Chelsea offers a
dozen paintings focusing on reflections, mirrors and doubling,
including the blissful representation of an ideal Sunday
morning.  Leo Castelli is at 18 E 77th St. #3A. Information: +1-212-
249-4470;  http://www.castelligallery.com/   The Morgan Library & Museum is at 225 Madison Ave.
Information: +1-212-685-0008;  http://www.themorgan.org/home.asp   Mitchell-Innes & Nash is at 534 W 26th St. Information: +1-
212-744-7400;  http://www.miandn.com/   Saturday Night  See “Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown,” the new
musical based on Pedro Almodovar’s 1988 comedy about flamboyant
Spanish females.  Patti LuPone  stars as the jilted, unhinged Lucia,  Laura Benanti  is Candela, the bubble-headed model involved with a
Shiite terrorist, and  Sherie Rene Scott  plays the central
character, Pepa, a voice-over actress looking for her errant
lover.  With music and lyrics by David Yazbek, a book by Jeffrey
Lane and Bartlett Sher directing, “Women on the Verge” cost $5
million and took five years to bring to the stage.  Now in previews at the Belasco Theatre, 111 West 44th St.
Opens Nov. 4. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.lct.org/showMain.htm?id=197   Sunday  In one of his most celebrated tricks,  Harry Houdini  drank
water with a package of needles and some thread. After a
dramatic pause, he pulled from his mouth the now-threaded
needles.  Born Ehrich Weiss, Houdini was a magician extraordinaire,
who escaped from handcuffs, straitjackets and his early life as
a Hungarian Jewish immigrant.  You can see magic apparatus, posters, photographs and
films, as well as art work inspired by Houdini in this show at
the Jewish Museum.  Don’t miss  Matthew Barney ’s installation “Cremaster 5: The
Ehrich Weiss Suite” riffing on the fleeting nature of life and
fame. There’s an acrylic coffin, which seven live Kite Jacobin
pigeons adorn with their droppings.  The Jewish Museum is at 1109 Fifth Ave. at 92nd St.
Information: +1-212-423-3200;  http://www.thejewishmuseum.org/   Arab Film Festival  Catch screenings of Arabic films “Love Aborted,” about
the inner world of women in Beirut, and “The Misfortunes of
Some...,” which follows a taxi driver who also runs a funeral
home.  The director, Omar Amiralay, will be on hand to introduce
the movies and talk about his work.  It’s part of “Mapping Subjectivity,” a project at the
Museum of Modern Art exploring five decades of avant-garde
filmmaking in Arab countries.  MoMA is at 11 W. 53 St. Information: +1-212-708-9400;
 http://www.moma.org/   Village Parade  Here’s your chance to don that  Lady Gaga  meat dress, a
Cyberzord mask with LED eyes or your Christine O’Donnell outfit
and join the 38th annual Village Halloween Parade.  This year’s theme is “Memento Mori,” a tribute to the Day
of the Dead puppets who’ve been leading the parade for 20 years
as a grisly reminder that life needs to be celebrated by the
living.  Arrive on Sixth Avenue between Spring and Broome Streets
between 6:30 and 8:30 for the march to 16th Street, but be
prepared for a mob scene: 2 million people are expected to take
part in the festivities.  Hip Halloween Party  Afterwards, if you really want to get some freak on, head
out to Panache and Todd P’s party at the Ridgewood Masonic
Temple.  Hip hop party-starters Das Racist will throw some bare-
knuckle spit-rhymes and Pictureplane will shake the walls with
bass.  It will be hectic, it will be madness, so you might consider
making Nov. 1 a “personal” day.  Ridgewood Masonic Temple is at 1054 Bushwick Ave.,
Brooklyn. Information:
 http://www.last.fm/event/1720235+Panache+ -
+Todd+P+Halloween+Party  (With assistance by  Lili Rosboch .  Zinta Lundborg  is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 