-- German Antitrust Office Weighs Probe of Deutsche Telekom Sales Agreements
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-10-29T13:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/deutsche-telekom-freenet-may-face-sales-deal-probe-by-german-regulators.html
Deutsche Telekom AG , Europe’s
biggest phone company, and its competitor Freenet AG may face an
antitrust probe by German regulators over sales-cooperation
agreements.  The Federal Cartel Office said it’s considering starting a
formal investigation after it reviewed documents concerning
potentially anti-competitive deals Deutsche Telekom had with
Debitel AG and  Freenet .  “Our initial review showed that there may have been
problematic conduct as regards antitrust rules,”  Kay Weidner , a
spokesman for the authority, said in an interview. “This
wouldn’t be a probe leading to a fine, but to look into whether
the company needs to change contractual clauses.”  Between 2006 and 2008, Deutsche Telekom may have tried to
use sales-cooperation agreements with Debitel and Freenet to win
new mobile and fixed-line customers, according to
WirtschaftsWoche magazine, which cited company documents. The
arrangement may have given Deutsche Telekom the power to
influence its competitors, the magazine reported.  The Cartel Office informed both Deutsche Telekom and
Freenet that it is looking into whether to open a formal probe
over the issue, said Weidner. Budelsdorf, Germany-based Freenet
acquired Debitel in 2008.  Mark Nierwetberg , a spokesman for Bonn-based Deutsche
Telekom, said the company denies violating antitrust rules with
its sales cooperation. No mobile-phone clients migrated from
Freenet to Deutsche Telekom, he said.  Deutsche Telekom  is in
talks with the regulator, Nierwetberg added.  Clear Up Allegations  Neither Freenet nor Debitel violated rules when cooperating
with network providers, their spokesman  Andreas Neumann  said.
The companies are ready to cooperate with the regulator to clear
up any allegations, he said.  Deutsche Telekom’s cooperation with its competitors may
have lead to the risk of undue influences on their market
behavior, according to a legal opinion by law firm Clifford
Chance LLP that WirtschaftsWoche cited. The opinion was
commissioned by Deutsche Telekom, according to the magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 