-- Dish, News Corp. Resolve Fox Fee Dispute, Avoiding Blackout
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-10-29T21:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/dish-news-corp-resolve-fox-fee-dispute-avoiding-blackout.html
News Corp.  and  Dish Network Corp. 
resolved a fee dispute over Fox channels that threatened to
black out World Series games and shows such as “Glee” for more
than 3 million Dish customers.  The two companies said in a statement that they agreed on a
distribution deal, without disclosing the terms. News Corp. had
said it would pull its signals if the two parties failed to
strike an agreement by an Oct. 31 deadline.  The accord allows the Englewood, Colorado-based satellite
operator to keep broadcasting National Football League games, as
well as programs such as “American Idol,” the most-watched
U.S. TV series. A blackout would have affected Dish customers in
cities including New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Washington.  “After prolonged negotiations to reach a fair deal, we’re
pleased to enter into a long term agreement with Fox and to
assure our customers that they can continue to enjoy these
channels,” said Dave Shull, senior vice president of
programming for Dish, in a statement. “We thank our customers,
our retail and channel partners, and our employees for their
support through these negotiations, which we believe resulted in
a fair deal.”  Other Fox programming, including 19 local sports channels,
FX and National Geographic, have also been restored to Dish
customers as part of the agreement. Those channels went off the
air on Oct. 1 after fee talks broke down between the two
companies in a separate negotiation.  Cablevision’s Blackout  On Oct. 16, News Corp. blacked out Fox for  Cablevision
Systems Corp. ’s customers, causing the longest-lasting blackout
of a major broadcast network for a million or more people in at
least a decade.  Broadcasters like Fox are trying to extract fees from pay-
TV operators for over-the-air channels that were once free.  “I am pleased that Fox and Dish have kept in mind their
responsibility to protect consumers from blackouts when they
negotiate carriage terms,” Federal Communications Commission
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said in a statement. “I urge Fox
and Cablevision to complete their negotiations and end the
impasse that has disrupted service to viewers.”  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-television
provider, rose 16 cents to $19.87 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have fallen 4.3 percent
this year. News Corp., based in New York, fell 1 cent to $14.48
and has risen 5.8 percent in 2010.  News Corp. was in a similar dispute with Time Warner Cable
Inc., the nation’s second-largest cable operator, late last
year. News Corp. sought $1 a month per subscriber for its Fox
stations, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  The two sides reached a deal after a deadline extension
without any channels being pulled. Time Warner Cable, based in
New York, agreed to a multiyear contract with the programmer
that may climb to 75 cents a subscriber, according to  Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  