-- Dollar May Bottom, Rally to 82 Yen on `Spinning Top': Technical Analysis
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2010-10-29T03:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/dollar-may-bottom-rise-to-82-yen-on-spinning-top-technical-analysis.html
The dollar may rebound toward 82 yen
as technical charts indicate the currency is nearing a bottom,
according to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  The dollar yesterday fell below the five-day moving average
and an Ichimoku chart’s conversion line at about 81.20 yen,
signaling the currency is “top heavy,” said  Teppei Ino , an
analyst at the unit of Japan’s largest banking group. Other
technical indicators are showing signs of a reversal, he said.  “The dollar is forming a ‘spinning top’ pattern on the
weekly candlestick chart, indicating that it’s approaching a
reversal point,” Ino said. “Even though a strong rise can’t be
anticipated, the dollar is gradually nearing a bottom.”  The U.S. currency may target 82 yen in the near term,
though it’s unlikely to cross above that level, with a
resistance line formed by the 21-day moving average being at
about 81.82 yen, according to Ino.  The dollar declined to a 15-year low of 80.41 yen on Oct.
25, five weeks after Japan intervened in currency markets to
sell yen for the first time in six years. It traded at 80.59 yen
at 12:14 p.m. in Tokyo.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index. The conversion line of
an Ichimoku chart plots the sum of the highest high and lowest
low over the last nine trading days.  A spinning top occurs on a candlestick chart when daily
opening and settlement prices are close together while the high
and low for that session are far apart. This creates a
candlestick shape with a narrow body and two long “spokes”
that resembles the children’s toy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeki Nozawa  in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  