-- Le Gaga's Sale Caps Busiest Month for U.S. IPOs in Three Years
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-10-29T17:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/le-gaga-s-offering-caps-busiest-month-for-u-s-ipos-since-december-2007.html
Le Gaga Holdings Ltd. , the Hong
Kong-based greenhouse vegetable producer, raised $103 million in
an initial public offering, completing the busiest month for
U.S. IPOs in almost three years.  The company, which sells its produce to supermarkets in
Hong Kong and mainland China, priced 10.87 million American
depositary receipts at $9.50 each yesterday, the top end of its
forecast range, according to a  filing  with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg. A total of
21 companies have sold shares through IPOs in October, the most
since 22 initial sales in December 2007, the data show.  Companies in Asia, the world’s fastest growing region, have
posted six of the 10 largest gains among IPOs in the U.S. this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ChinaCache International
Holdings Ltd. , the Beijing-based provider of Internet content to
businesses, this month had the biggest first-day rally for a New
York listing in three years.  “There’s definitely a lot of demand for consumption
stories in emerging markets, and this is a good one,” said
 Timothy Cunningham , a money manager at Santa Fe, New Mexico-
based Thornburg Investment Management, which oversees about $69
billion. “Especially for China, you have a nice long-term
growth story there.”  Le Gaga  shares climbed 6.7 percent to $10.14 as of 1:46
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  ‘We’re Happy’  Bank of America Corp.  of Charlotte, North Carolina, and
Zurich-based UBS AG led the offering. The company intends to use
the money to build greenhouses and improve other facilities, its
prospectus showed. The vegetable producer will also use the
proceeds for research and development.  “We’re happy,” said Ma Shing Yung, Le Gaga’s chairman and
chief executive officer. The IPO was priced “at the high end of
the price range, so we’re very happy about it,” he said.  Revenue at  Le Gaga  rose 41 percent to 281 million yuan
($41.4 million) in its fiscal year ended March 31, its filing
showed. The company’s profit increased 82 percent.  The company operates 16 farms in the Chinese provinces of
Fujian, Guangdong and Hebei, according to  its filing . Le Gaga
uses greenhouses to grow vegetables in most of its farms in
Fujian and Guangdong. Its two farms in Hebei produce vegetables
that grow best in a cooler climate, the filing showed.  Search for Yield  Asian economies will grow 6.6 percent next year, according
to the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund . China’s
economy will expand 9.6 percent. In the U.S., where at least 55
companies have postponed or withdrawn IPOs this year, economic
growth will slow to 2.3 percent in 2011, the estimates show.  Benchmark interest rates near zero percent in the U.S. and
Japan have also increased demand for higher-yielding assets,
leading more investors to IPOs, according to  Jason Cooper , who
oversees $2.5 billion at 1st Source Investment Advisors in South
Bend, Indiana.
“People are finding a hard time to continue to put money into
assets that are earning very little and will continue to earn
very little,” said Cooper. “That’s why people are reassessing
how much risk they’re willing to take.”  That’s “probably helped the IPO market,” he said.  Companies from Asia have led the rebound in the U.S. IPO
market.  JinkoSolar Holding Co. , the maker of silicon wafers in
China’s Jiangxi province, gained 176 percent this year.  HiSoft, MakeMyTrip  Dalian, China-based  HiSoft Technology  International Ltd.,
which helps companies outsource software development, has jumped
170 percent. Gurgaon, India-based MakeMyTrip Ltd., India’s
largest online travel company, has climbed 163 percent since its
August IPO.  The last two Chinese IPOs this month, Beijing-based TAL
Education Group, and  Mecox Lane Ltd. , the Shanghai-based online
retailer, have also advanced at least 50 percent on their first
day of trading.  Separately,  Horizon Technology Finance Corp.  of Farmington,
Connecticut, priced 6.25 million shares at $16 each in its
initial offering yesterday, according to a statement. The shares
declined  3.8 percent  to $15.40 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 