-- Easing by Fed May Boost China Inflation, Lombard's Dumas Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-29T20:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/easing-by-fed-may-boost-china-inflation-lombard-s-dumas-says-tom-keene.html
A new round of asset purchases by
the Federal Reserve may lead to higher inflation in China as the
country fails to let its currency strengthen, according to
 Charles Dumas  of Lombard Street Research Ltd.  “It’s really putting the Chinese authorities’ feet to the
fire,” London-based Dumas said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .
“Their exports are growing faster than their imports. The
Chinese, because of the extra inflation they will get out of
QE2, will have to clamp down on their domestic demand harder
than they have already.”  Consumer  prices  in China are climbing at the fastest pace
in two years, as prospects for yuan appreciation and 10 percent
economic growth attract capital from abroad. Near-zero interest
rates in the U.S. and Japan are boosting the allure of higher-
yielding assets, heightening the risk of asset bubbles in
developing nations such as China, where inflation at 3.6 percent
is above that official 3 percent target.  Fed policy makers meet Nov. 2-3 to consider more purchases
of Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money in a strategy
called quantitative easing aimed at preventing stagnating prices
from undermining the recovery. They deployed $1.7 trillion to
pull the economy out of the financial crisis in a program that
ended in March.  Widening Bond Premium  China’s interest-rate increase on Oct. 19, the first since
2007, has done little to damp the outlook for inflation and
growth in the economy, judging from the widening premium
investors demand to hold 10-year Chinese bonds. The difference
between yields on benchmark debt due in 2012 and notes maturing
in 2020 grew 7 basis points in October to 128 after reaching a
five-month high of 131 this week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “It certainly makes life very difficult for China, because
now they’re really getting the inflation because all those food-
price increases are much more important in China, where food is
a third of the CPI,” Dumas said. “So they will be in real
difficulty with the local population as a result of linking
their exchange rate and not letting it appreciate as it
should.”  The U.S. Treasury delayed a report on foreign-exchange
markets this month, saying China’s yuan remained undervalued and
that the nation needed to show continued commitment to allowing
the currency to rise against the dollar over time. The yuan
traded today at 6.6705 per dollar, from 6.6870 yesterday.  China’s central bank last week raised its benchmark one-
year lending rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent, and
increased the deposit rate to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  