-- Economy in U.S. Likely Grew as Consumer Spending Climbed
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/economy-in-u-s-probably-picked-up-as-consumer-spending-boosted-recovery.html
The U.S. economy probably grew at a
faster pace in the third quarter as consumer spending climbed, a
sign the expansion is developing staying power, economists said
before a report today.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual pace, up
from a 1.7 percent rate in the prior three months, according to
the median estimate of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Household purchases, about 70 percent of the economy, probably
had the best quarter of the recovery that began in June 2009.  The rate of growth is short of what’s needed to cut a
jobless rate stuck near 10 percent, a concern that may lead
Federal Reserve policy makers next week to pump more money into
the world’s largest economy.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  is among
retailers cutting prices to attract shoppers, while rising
 exports  mean factories will remain a pillar of the rebound.  “The consumer was the big standout last quarter,” said
 Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS Securities in Stamford,
Connecticut. “But the economy is on cruise control, and there’s
nothing really to drive faster growth that’ll quickly reduce
unemployment.”  The Commerce Department report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 0.5
percent to 3.6 percent.  The GDP estimate is the first of three for the quarter,
with revisions in November and December when more information
becomes available.  Shares Rally  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index has climbed 11 percent
since Aug. 27, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank “will do all that it can” to sustain the economic
recovery. Investors are anticipating the central bank will
announce another round of asset purchases after buying $1.7
trillion in debt from December 2008 to March.  The Fed meets Nov. 2-3 to consider steps to boost an
economy growing too slowly and prevent inflation, which remains
below its longer-term projections, from cooling even more.
Growth in the 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent range is consistent
with keeping the jobless rate stable, according to policy
makers’ latest forecasts.  At 9:45 a.m., figures from the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. may show business activity expanded at a
slower pace in October. The group’s  barometer  fell to 58 from
60.4 in September, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Manufacturing gains, which continued to drive growth in the
third quarter, are cooling as the pace of inventory rebuilding
eases following a surge that began in late 2009.  Stable Sentiment  Another report at 9:55 a.m. may show the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer  sentiment 
was little changed this month from September, according to the
survey median.  While confidence is mired below pre-recession levels,
stock-market gains and reduced debt may be allowing consumers to
increase spending, which bodes well for the holiday season. The
GDP report may show  household purchases  rose at a 2.5 percent
annual rate, the biggest gain since the end of 2006, according
to the survey median.  “Consumer spending appears to have perked up” and
business investment posted “another solid advance” last
quarter, Morgan Stanley economist  David Greenlaw  wrote in a
report. Even so, much of the boost came from inventory building,
which added about 1.5 percentage points to growth, he said.  The National Retail Federation has forecast November-
December sales will rise 2.3 percent from a year ago, making it
the best holiday season in four years.  Bargain Hunting  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer,  Target Corp. ,
Amazon.com Inc. and EBay Inc. are among merchants that will
benefit as holiday shoppers seek bargains, according to results
of a survey issued this month by Consumer Edge Research in
Stamford, Connecticut.  Target, the second-biggest discount retailer, said this
month it would lower prices on more than 1,000 toys to attract
shoppers. Its larger rival responded with its own discounts,
advertising saving on brands such as Barbie and Nerf toys.  Miami-based  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. , the world’s
second-largest cruise operator, raised its 2010 profit forecast
and predicted record earnings next year. Passenger bookings are
rebounding since Chief Executive Officer  Richard Fain  slashed
ticket prices and costs last year.  Demand is now “steady and solid,” Fain said in an Oct. 26
statement. “The economy is still tough, but even facing such
headwinds, our outlook is remarkably encouraging.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  