-- Medvedev to Oversee Deals on Nuclear Plant, BP Assets in Hanoi
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-10-29T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/medvedev-to-oversee-deals-on-nuclear-plant-bp-assets-in-hanoi.html
Russia plans to build Vietnam’s
first nuclear power plant and buy  BP Plc ’s assets in the
Southeast Asian country as President  Dmitry Medvedev  travels to
Hanoi seeking to revive ties with the former Soviet ally.  Medvedev begins the two-day trip tomorrow with a delegation
that includes  Sergei Kiriyenko , head of the state nuclear
holding company Rosatom Corp.,  OAO Gazprom  Chief Executive
Officer  Alexei Miller  and TNK-BP Executive Director  German Khan ,
said  Sergei Prikhodko , the president’s foreign policy aide.  Russia’s influence in Vietnam has waned as political and
military ties dwindled after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Vietnam now regards the U.S. as its main investor and partner,
said Dmitry Mosyakov, head of the Southeast Asia, Australia and
Oceania Center of the Moscow-based Institute of Far East
Studies.  “Medvedev’s visit will be successful; Vietnam needs good
relations with Russia,” Mosyakov said. “But there may be
serious problems when it comes to turning Vietnam into a
strategic ally, since they seem to have chosen a different ally.
It’s premature to say Russia will enjoy a big comeback in the
region.”  The focus of Medvedev’s visit is on trade, economic
relations, investment and cooperation in the banking sphere,
Prikhodko told reporters in Moscow yesterday. The Russian leader
will also attend a summit of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations.  Nuclear, Hydro Plants  Russia plans to sign an accord to build a nuclear power
plant in Vietnam, the first of as many as 13 the country plans
by 2030. Russia is ready to consider financing the project,
Prikhodko said.  OAO RusHydro, Russia’s biggest producer of renewable
energy, and Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, also known as PetroVietnam,
plan to sign a preliminary agreement on building a hydropower
plant in the country, Prikhodko said.  Vietnam is developing new sources of energy to meet demand
from its increasingly wealthy population of 86 million. The
government forecasts that economic growth will quicken to as
much as 8 percent annually through 2020. Residents of cities
including Ho Chi Minh City, the nation’s largest, and the
capital Hanoi, are subject to periodic daylong power cuts.  The two countries will also sign an accord supporting the
sale of BP’s assets in Vietnam to TNK-BP, the British oil
producer’s Russian venture, Prikhodko said.  BP Assets  BP, seeking cash to cover costs linked to the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill, agreed this month to sell assets in Venezuela
and Vietnam to TNK-BP for $1.8 billion. In Vietnam, TNK-BP will
buy BP’s 35 percent stake in an offshore gas block containing
the Lan Tay and Lan Do fields, a 32.7 percent stake in the Nam
Con Son pipeline and terminal and a 33 percent stake in the Phu
My 3 power plant.  As part of the second Russia-ASEAN summit, Medvedev will
focus on financial and economic cooperation as well as joint
efforts to ease the global crisis, Prikhodko said. Regional
security, the situation on the Korean Peninsula and Iran’s
nuclear program will also be discussed, he said.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  will attend the Oct. 28-30 meetings in Hanoi, along
with leaders from Japan, South Korea, India, Australia, New
Zealand, and the 10-member ASEAN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  