-- Telenet Boosts Bonds as European Junk Debt Offerings Reach October Record
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   H y d e   a n d   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-10-29T11:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/telenet-increases-bond-sale-to-500-million-euros.html
Telenet Group Holding NV,  the
Belgian cable operator controlled by John Malone’s Liberty
Global Inc., boosted the size of its high-yield bond sale by
more than 40 percent to tap investor demand for riskier debt.  Telenet sold 500 million euros ($693 million) of 10-year
bonds, up from 350 million euros it initially sought, according
to a person with knowledge of the deal. The notes, which Telenet
can redeem after five years, were priced to yield 6.375 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors are chasing average returns of 17 percent from
high-yield debt, almost triple the year’s gains on investment-
grade corporate securities or government bonds, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The demand spurred $13
billion of junk-rated bond sales in Europe this month, a record
for October, Bloomberg data show.  “People have large amounts of cash to put to work and the
most efficient way they can do this is by participating in new
issues,” said  Andrew Wilmont , who helps oversee $5 billion of
speculative-grade debt at Axa Investment Managers U.K. Ltd.
“Demand is there for high-yield.”  Investor appetite for the riskier debt has driven borrowing
costs for junk-rated companies to the lowest in three years,
Bank of America index data show. The yield investors demand to
hold high-yield debt held at 7.49 percent this week, the lowest
level since July 2007.  Redeem Loans  Telenet, rated Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service, said
yesterday it will use the proceeds from its bonds to redeem
 shorter-term loans  and help fund future shareholder payouts. The
company raised its forecast for cash generation this year to
more than 225 million euros, from 166.9 million euros in 2009,
the Mechelen, Belgium-based company said in a statement.  R&R Ice Cream Ltd. in Northallerton, England boosted its
sale of junk-rated notes by 25 percent to 350 million euros this
week, Bloomberg data show. The company, rated BB- at Standard &
Poor’s and one step lower at B1 by Moody’s, priced the notes to
yield 8.375 percent.  High-yield, or junk, bonds are graded below Baa3 by Moody’s
and BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  