-- Warren Says Technology Can Prevent ‘Capture’ of Consumer Agency
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2010-10-29T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/elizabeth-warren-says-technology-can-prevent-capture-of-consumer-agency.html
Elizabeth Warren , the special
adviser assigned to help set up the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, said she is planning to use technology to
prevent “capture” of the new agency by the industry it’s being
created to oversee.  The regulator will “use supervision and lawsuits to
enforce the law” while employing technology to “supplement the
cop on the beat by building a neighborhood watch,” Warren said
today in remarks prepared for delivery at the  University of
California at Berkeley .  “The new consumer agency can develop the tools to level
the playing field and discourage capture,” Warren said. “The
American people can have not just one but thousands of seats at
the table” with the help of technology, she said.  Warren, who planned to meet with  technology industry
executives  and visit  Google Inc.  during her trip to the San
Francisco Bay area, said using “a well-informed population to
help expose, early on, consumer financial tricks” could create
an additional safeguard against problems such as the
documentation lapses that led mortgage-servicing firms to
temporarily halt foreclosures.  “Think about how much sooner attention could have turned
to foreclosure documentation -- robo-signers and fake notaries -
- if, back in 2007 and 2008, the consumer agency had been in
place to blow the whistle before the problem became a national
scandal,” she said.  Industry View  The financial services industry “pushes its views and, as
you might expect, the right direction turns out to be the one
that is good for the industry,” Warren said. “That’s the
industry’s right, but for the American public, those who aren’t
hiring lawyers and lobbyists, the field is tilted against
them.”  Warren said crowd-sourcing -- in which technology is used
to query large groups of people for answers to complex questions
-- could be used by the bureau to harness information from
consumers.  “Imagine scanning a credit agreement and uploading to a
website where software can analyze the text,” Warren said. “A
consumer could help the agency spot new agreements on the market
and customers who could get more information as they make
decisions.”  She said the bureau could build on the precedent of the
Credit Card Accountability and Disclosure Act, which requires
card issuers to give their credit agreements to the Federal
Reserve, which posts them on the Internet.  Warren was named in September as an assistant to President
 Barack Obama  and a special adviser to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to help shape the consumer agency that will be
housed at the Fed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carter Dougherty  in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 