-- German Stocks Rise as BMW, Fresenius Advance; Metro Declines in Frankfurt
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-10-29T16:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/elringklinger-gea-porsche-siemens-may-be-active-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks rose, sending the DAX
Index to its biggest monthly gain since March, amid speculation
that faster U.S. growth won’t prevent the Federal Reserve
announcing additional stimulus measures next week.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG rose 3.3 percent as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. recommended buying the shares. Fresenius SE
climbed 3.7 percent to a record as Deutsche Bank AG lifted its
price estimate on the stock. Metro AG and  Porsche SE  retreated
as analysts downgraded the shares. MorphoSys AG sank 1.9 percent
after third-quarter profit declined.  The  DAX  rose 0.1 percent to 6,601.37 at the 5.30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt. The measure has rallied 6 percent this month amid
speculation policy makers at the Fed will announce another round
of asset purchases at their November meeting in a bid to
jumpstart economic growth. The broader HDAX Index also gained
0.1 percent today.  “The market is not surprised by any of today’s GDP data,”
said  Daniel Weston , Munich-based portfolio adviser at Schroeder
Equities GmbH. “It is the quantitative easing announcement next
week that will set a direction for the markets. We do not think
the Fed will disappoint.”  U.S. Growth  The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter as consumer spending climbed the most in almost
four years, a report showed today. The increase in gross
domestic product matched the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a 1.7 percent gain the
prior three months, according to Commerce Department figures.  The rate of growth is short of what’s needed to cut a
jobless rate stuck near 10 percent, a concern that may lead Fed
policy makers next week to pump more money into the world’s
largest economy. The GDP estimate is the first of three for the
quarter, with revisions in November and December when more
information becomes available.  Of the 24 companies in the  HDAX  that have announced results
since Oct. 7, 58 percent have beaten analyst estimates for per-
share income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BMW, the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, jumped 3.3
percent to 51.51 euros as Goldman Sachs raised its
recommendation to “buy.” Rival  Daimler AG  added 1 percent to
47.43 euros.  Fresenius preferred shares rose 3.7 percent to 64.41 euros,
the highest close on record. Deutsche Bank lifted its price
forecast on the parent company of the world’s biggest provider
of kidney dialysis by 10 percent to 75 euros.  Metro, Porsche  Metro, Germany’s biggest retailer, tumbled 1.6 percent to
50.36 euros as HSBC Holdings Plc cut its recommendation on the
stock to “neutral” from “overweight.”  Porsche preferred shares fell 1 percent to 36.82 euros as
the carmaker had its rating reduced to “neutral” from “buy”
at UBS AG.  MorphoSys  slumped 1.9 percent to 17.22 euros. The
biotechnology company reported a decline in third-quarter net
income to 1.4 million euros ($1.9 million), from 2.6 million
euros in the year-earlier quarter.  Bilfinger Berger SE  slid 3.5 percent to 52.33 euros as
Germany’s second-largest construction company appointed former
Hesse state premier  Roland Koch  as chief executive officer,
succeeding  Herbert Bodner . The appointment will be effective
from July 1, 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 