-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall, Pares Second Monthly Gain on China's Measures
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2010-10-29T06:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/emerging-market-stocks-fall-pares-second-monthly-gain-on-china-s-measures.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, paring
the benchmark index’s second monthly gain, on concern China’s
measures to contain inflation and property speculation will curb
growth in Asia.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  declined 0.3 percent to
1,099.07 at 2:17 p.m. in Singapore. The gauge has risen 2.2
percent so far this month. The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.1
percent while the MSCI China Index, which includes Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong, dropped 0.7 percent. South
Korea’s  Kospi  index slipped 1.3 percent.  “Investors are concerned over China’s direction because a
lot of economies depend on it,” said  Rico Gomez , who helps
manage about $1 billion at Manila-based Rizal Commercial Banking
Corp. “A good chunk of businesses in emerging markets are going
to China. If China raises rates, there will be pressure for
emerging markets to follow.”  China’s central bank raised interest rates last week and
after the world’s fastest growing major  economy  expanded 9.6
percent in the third quarter.  China Vanke Co. , the nation’s
biggest developer, and Industrial & Commercial Bank of China,
the largest lender, dropped at least 1.6 percent after the
banking regulator asked lenders to guard against risks from
property loans and the China Securities Journal reported banks
cut discounts on mortgage rates, boosting borrowing costs.  Samsung Electronics Co.  slid 2.5 percent after the world’s
biggest maker of televisions, memory chips and flat screens
forecast a drop in quarterly earnings.  LG Innotek Co. , a South
Korean maker of light emitting diodes, fell 2.3 percent after
the company was cut to “neutral” from “buy” at UBS AG, which
lowered the company’s earnings forecasts.  Bank of Communications Co. , China’s fifth-largest lender,
slid 3 percent in Shanghai trading after reporting profit that
trailed analyst estimates.  India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  lost 0.2
percent while Taiwan’s Taiex Index dropped 0.8 percent. The
Philippine Stock Exchange Index added 0.2 percent, completing a
4.1 percent gain this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  