-- Enel Raises About $3.1 Billion in Renewable Energy Share Offer
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-10-30T11:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/enel-said-to-raise-about-3-1-billion-in-green-power-initial-share-offer.html
Enel SpA , Italy’s biggest utility,
raised about 2.26 billion euros ($3.1 billion), less than its
target, in an initial public offering of the company’s renewable
energy unit.  Enel sold about 1.42 billion shares of Enel Green Power SpA
at 1.6 euros apiece in western Europe’s largest initial offering
since December 2007, Rome-based Enel said in a statement today.
The sale valued EGP at about 8 billion euros. Enel on Oct. 28
cut the range used to market the stock to investors to a minimum
of 1.60 euros each, compared with an initial range of 1.80 euros
to 2.10 euros.  Enel Chief Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  last month said
he planned to raise at least 3 billion euros from selling shares
in the operator of wind, solar and hydro-electric power plants
to help cut the utility’s 54 billion euros of  debt . Investors
initially shunned the offering because it valued EGP at about
the same as rivals such as Spain’s  Iberdrola Renovables SA .  “They’re now priced in line with the incumbents, which
makes them more attractive,” said  Josef Schuster , the Chicago-
based founder of IPOX Capital Management LLC, which oversees $3
billion. Enel had “priced it high because they believed there
was a window of opportunity to extract some more value beyond
what is reasonable fundamentally, but obviously they were
mistaken,” he said.  EGP’s shares are scheduled to start trading in Milan and
Madrid Nov. 4. Individual investors in Italy and Spain requested
1.26 billion shares, while institutions asked for 520 million,
Enel said in the statement.  Relative Value  At 1.6 euros a share, Rome-based EGP has an enterprise
value of 8.1 times estimated earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, MF Global analysts
said in a note on Oct. 29. That’s less than Spain’s Iberdrola
Renovables, which trades at 9 times enterprise value/Ebitda, the
analysts said.  EDP Renovaveis SA  trades at 8.3 times.  “There wasn’t enough of an incentive to switch between
stocks at a higher price,” said Dublin-based  Alexandra Vanhuyse 
from KBC Asset Management, which ordered shares of EGP. “A
company has to offer a lot more than rivals to be as expensive
as them in an IPO because it doesn’t have a track record.”  Iberdrola Renovables  has dropped 54 percent since its IPO
in December 2007, while  EDP Renovaveis  has tumbled 48 percent
since going public in June 2008. EGP’s offering was the largest
in western Europe since Iberdrola Renovables raised 4.5 billion
euros in December 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors, Underwriters  Companies typically seek to draw orders for more stock than
they’re selling in an IPO. Investors that receive less stock
than they ordered then buy shares on the market, helping to
pushing the share price up.  Bank of America Corp. , Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s Banca IMI SpA,
Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mediobanca SpA, Morgan Stanley, UniCredit
SpA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA are managing the IPO.
The banks can increase the offering by 210 million shares by
exercising the so-called overallotment option.  EGP will return 30 percent of net income to investors
through dividends, more than its rivals. Unlike Iberdrola
Renovables and other competitors that rely on wind power, EGP
has 44 percent of its power capacity at hydroelectric plants.
About 41 percent of its capacity comes from wind and 13 percent
from geothermal.  Managers at EGP and Enel had planned to buy shares in the
IPO, according to company statements. EGP Chairman  Luigi Ferraris  and Chief Executive Officer  Francesco Starace  reserved
80,000 shares each, while Enel Chairman  Piero Gnudi  and Conti
ordered 100,000 shares each.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Zijing Wu  in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  