-- Senator Menendez Says Democrats Will Do Well in Senate, Win in Illinois
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-10-29T17:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/menendez-says-democrats-will-do-well-in-senate-elections-win-in-illinois.html
U.S. Senator  Robert Menendez , who
leads the Democratic Senate campaign, said his party will do
better than expected next week and predicted an upset win in the
Illinois race for President  Barack Obama ’s old seat.  “We will, number one, be in the majority in the Senate as
Democrats after Nov. 2,” Menendez of New Jersey said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Menendez, 56, said surprises will continue in the
elections, similar to the losses in primaries by some Republican
incumbents, and he dismissed a forecast his party will lose
eight seats in the Senate.  “We may very well do better than that,” he said.
Democrats control the Senate 59-41, and Republicans need a net
gain of 10 seats to take the majority. Menendez predicted that
Illinois Democrat  Alexi Giannoulias  will win his race against
Republican Representative  Mark Kirk  to keep Obama’s former
Senate seat in Democratic control.  He also said Democrats have a good chance of picking up a
seat in Alaska, where Republican Senator  Lisa Murkowski  is
seeking re-election as a write-in candidate after her upset loss
in the primary to Tea Party-backed candidate Joe Miller.  Miller’s campaign is struggling, creating an opportunity
for Democratic candidate  Scott McAdams , mayor of Sitka, Alaska,
in the three-way contest.  “He has a real shot of winning,” Menendez said. “Every
poll shows that he has risen dramatically.”  Improvements in Economy  Menendez said many people don’t understand “the
realities” about improvements in the U.S. economy during the
Obama administration.  A Bloomberg National Poll this week shows that by a two-to-
one margin likely voters think taxes have gone up, the economy
has shrunk and the billions lent to banks under the Troubled
Asset Relief Program won’t be paid back.  In fact, the Obama administration cut taxes for middle-
class Americans, the economy has grown for five straight
quarters and the government expects to make a profit on the
hundreds of billions of dollars spent on TARP.  “We had an incredibly aggressive agenda for the first two
years of this administration,” Menendez said. “Before anything
could sink in about what was being accomplished, we were on to
the next issue.”  Menendez said Democratic leaders missed an opportunity by
not holding a vote before the elections on whether to extend
Bush-era income-tax cuts. Instead, they put it off until
lawmakers return for a lame-duck session next month.  Set to Expire  Democrats and Republicans are locked in a dispute over who
should be covered by an extension of tax cuts enacted in 2001
and 2003 that are set to expire at the end of this year.  Democrats want to continue the lower rates for families
earning up to $250,000 a year, while Republicans insist on
keeping the cuts for higher-income Americans as well.  “I was one of those who advocated having a vote, because I
wanted to show that Democrats stood on the side of middle-class
taxpayers, working people in our country, and overwhelmingly
want to make those tax cuts permanent,” Menendez said.  How much Congress can accomplish after the elections will
be largely up to Republicans, he said.  “The lame-duck session is either going to be rather lame
or it’s going to be a pretty strong one, depending upon how
Republicans view it,” the senator said. “If they win seats and
think they’ll be in a better position in January of next year,
they may very well not want to get anything done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  