-- Italian Stocks Decline; Amplifon, Intesa, Fondiaria, Premafin, Safilo Move
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-29T15:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/eni-intesa-recordati-stmicro-unicredit-may-move-italy-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index 
fell for a fourth day this week, losing 59.01, or 0.3 percent,
to 21,450.61 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan. The gauge dropped
0.4 percent in the week, paring its October advance to 4.6
percent.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Amplifon SpA  (AMP IM) climbed 0.5 percent to 3.87 euros,
the highest level since Aug. 6. Cheuvreux trimmed its price
estimate on the world’s largest hearing-aid distributor to 4.7
euros from 4.8 euros. It reiterated an “outperform” rating,
saying in a note it likes the company “for the combination of
organic growth in consolidated markets, restructuring potential
in U.S. and the upside in Australia through the recent
acquisition.”  Intermonte Sim SpA upgraded the stock to “outperform”
from “underperform.”  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA  (ISP IM) dropped 2.3 percent to 2.53
euros. Italy’s second-biggest bank and BNP Paribas are the most
likely candidates to buy the assets of Polbank, the Polish unit
of Greece’s EFG Eurobank, daily Il Messaggero reported, without
saying where it got the information.  “The deal would likely generate little synergies but it
would contribute to the diversification of Intesa’s earnings,”
Mediobanca Securities said in a note.  Credit Suisse Group AG trimmed its estimates on Italian
banks before quarterly results. “We believe that on balance
they may trigger further earnings downgrades due to higher taxes
and, in some cases, lower fee income,” the brokerage said in a
note.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  (BMPS IM), Italy’s
third-largest bank, lost 0.3 percent to 1.01 euros, falling
every day this week.  UniCredit SpA  (UCG IM), the country’s
biggest, retreated 1.2 percent to 1.88 euros.  Unione di Banche
Italiane SCPA  (UBI IM) and  Banco Popolare SC  (BP IM) fell 2.9
percent to 7.59 euros and 1 percent to 3.86 euros, respectively.       Premafin Finanziaria SpA  (PF IM) jumped 8.4 percent to 1.08
euros, its biggest gain in two years.  Fondiaria-Sai SpA  (FSA
IM), a Firenze-based insurer, advanced 5.9 percent to 8.54
euros, the biggest gain in three weeks. Groupama SA, a French
customer-owned insurer, agreed to buy a 17 percent stake in
Premafin, which controls Fondiaria.  Groupama will acquire the stake in Premafin through a
rights offering, the Italian company said in a statement
distributed by the Milan Stock Exchange. Paris-based Groupama’s
total investment will be 145.7 million euros ($203 million),
according to the statement.  Premafin, controlled by Italy’s Ligresti family, is raising
a total of 227.5 million euros through a stock sale, offering
investors 1 new share for every two held. They will offer the
shares at 1.10 euros each.  Milano Assicurazioni SpA  (MI IM), a unit of Fondiaria, rose
3.4 percent to 1.55 euros.  Safilo Group SpA  (SFL IM) lost 0.6 percent to 11.34 euros,
paring a 3 percent increase yesterday. Fidentiis Equities SV SA
initiated coverage of the world’s second-largest maker of
glasses with a “sell” rating and a valuation range of 10.5-11
euros.  “Having no visibility on the incoming industrial plan,
probably to be unveiled in the first quarter of 2011, and with
the medium term pending uncertainty on Armani license renewal,
we believe, today, the risk-reward profile of the stock is
skewed to the downside,” the brokerage said in a note.  Stefanel SpA  (STEF IM) climbed 4 percent to 69 cents,
snapping a three-day loss as the company agreed to sell a 50
percent stake in Nuance’s owner Noel International SA to Pai
Partners. “The news is very positive for Stefanel,” Equita Sim
SpA said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 