-- Merck Legal Costs for Vioxx Reduce Profit Six Years After Drug's Recall
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-10-29T20:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/merck-legal-costs-for-vioxx-reduce-profit-6-years-after-recall.html
Merck & Co.  set aside $950 million
to resolve a criminal probe into the Vioxx painkiller it
withdrew six years ago, raising potential legal costs to $7.7
billion and driving down the company’s  shares  by 1.7 percent.  The legal reserve contributed to a 90 percent decline in
third-quarter income to $342 million, the Whitehouse Station,
New Jersey-based drugmaker said today in a statement. Merck fell
63 cents, to $36.31, at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, pulled Vioxx from
the market in 2004 after a study showed it doubled the risk of
heart attacks and strokes. The company previously paid $4.85
billion to settle thousands of lawsuits claiming injuries and
another $1.9 billion for legal costs. The new legal reserve will
cover an “anticipated resolution” of a probe by U.S.
prosecutors into research and marketing of Vioxx.  “We’d be buyers on any significant weakness today from the
$950 million legal reserve related to Vioxx,” said  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co., in a note to
clients. The “legal charge overshadows solid product
performance.”  Excluding the Vioxx reserve and other one-time items,
earnings were 85 cents a share, the company said. Those results
beat by 2 cents the  average estimate  of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales jumped 84 percent to $11.1 billion after adding
products from the $49.6 billion acquisition of Schering-Plough
Corp. last November, the company said today in a statement.  Previous Disclosure  Merck  previously disclosed  that federal prosecutors in
Boston had identified the company in March 2009 as a target of a
grand jury investigation, and that witnesses had been called in
the probe. It also said that certain cities in Europe were
weighing whether to bring criminal charges.  “Our discussions with the government are ongoing, and
until they’re concluded, there can be no certainty about a
definitive resolution,” spokesman  Ron Rogers  said in an
interview.  The company won 11 of 16 Vioxx lawsuits at trial before
agreeing in 2007 to create a $4.85 billion settlement fund. It
also reserved $1.9 billion for legal costs.  Plaintiffs who sued in state and federal courts claimed
Merck didn’t adequately disclose Vioxx safety data to the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration, didn’t properly warn doctors and
patients of the drug’s risks and misrepresented the potential
harm in marketing materials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 