-- Merkel Regains Some `Sparkle' as EU Gambit, German Budget Cuts Win Through
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-10-29T12:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/merkel-regains-some-sparkle-as-eu-gambit-german-budget-cuts-win-through.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s policy
victories in Berlin and Brussels offer her a boost as she bids
to reverse a decline in her Christian Democrat party’s fortunes
before elections next year in six of Germany’s 16 states.  Merkel, trailing the opposition in polls since May amid
policy drift and coalition bickering, won lower-house backing
yesterday for a nuclear-power extension, budget cuts and tougher
rules for banks bailed out by state funds during the crisis. She
went on to secure the support of fellow European Union leaders
for her plan to create a permanent debt-crisis mechanism.  “She’s pleased because this is a good result for Germany
and Europe,”  Steffen Seibert , Merkel’s chief spokesman, said in
a text message from Brussels. “She’s already concentrating on
the next tasks at hand.”  Merkel must rally her coalition before regional votes
involving 25 percent of the population beginning in March, or
face what  Uwe Andersen , a politics professor at the University
of Bochum, has said will be a “nuclear meltdown” in her party.
Policy triumphs and a buoyant economy, Europe’s biggest, may
give her the springboard she needs.  ‘Gone Broke’  “A lot of people have gone broke underestimating Frau
Merkel,”  Irwin Collier , a professor of political economy at the
John F. Kennedy Institute of the Free University in Berlin, said
by phone. “There’s a bonus lurking in sustained economic growth
that will eventually feel itself in her party’s poll scores.”  German  unemployment  dropped below the 3 million mark this
month to the lowest since 1992, as the government raised its
forecast for  economic growth  to 3.4 percent, the fastest pace
since 1991. The benchmark DAX Index is up 10 percent this year,
more than double the 4.4 percent advance for the U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index and the 4.3 percent gain for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  “It’s normal that the sparkle of a new government rubs off
after a year and poll tallies dip but we should see some
stability there now in Merkel’s score card -- and we are,” said
 Peter Matuschek , chief political analyst with pollster Forsa.
Even so, “she needs to identify far more closely with  Germany’s
recovery .”  Merkel’s personal and party ratings plummeted in May during
her flip-flop over aiding Greece and were compounded as she
granted the biggest portion of the EU’s 440 billion-euro ($608
billion) rescue fund. She went in to the summit yesterday
refusing to extend the fund beyond its three-year mandate,
winning agreement to rewrite EU treaties to prevent a repeat of
the debt crisis that put the euro at threat.  ‘Learned the Lessons’  “We have achieved some important things that show we’ve
learned the lessons of the euro crisis,” Merkel told reporters
in Brussels today. The changes approved by EU leaders mean “the
euro will strengthen.”  The euro is up 16 percent against the dollar from June’s
four-year low. The single currency was down 0.5 percent at
$1.3860 as of 1:03 p.m. in Berlin.  “Merkel is one of the most successful heads of government
right now in terms of being able to deliver,”  Fredrik Erixon ,
director of the Brussels-based European Centre for International
Political Economy, said by phone. “Compared with other leaders
she’s determined in what she wants to do and also has a strategy
on how to push it through.”  Latest Polls  That resolve has yet to translate into voter support.
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc and her Free Democratic Party
coalition partner have 35-37 percent backing, according to three
polls published on Oct. 27. That compares with the 48.4 percent
that won her re-election in September last year.  The opposition Social Democrats and Greens, which governed
in a coalition from 1998 to 2005, have 47-48 percent in the
three polls, up from a combined 33.7 percent at the election.  Protests are meanwhile gathering pace over the chancellor’s
policy of prolonging the operating lifespan of Germany’s 17
nuclear plants by as many as 14 years. Opposition parties
yesterday said they’ll challenge government plans to bypass the
upper house of parliament and would overturn the extension if
they regain power in 2013.  The outlook is similarly bleak in Baden-Wuerttemberg, the
biggest state to vote next year, where protests over a high-
speed rail link in Stuttgart may lose Merkel’s CDU control of
the regional administration for the first time in more than 50
years.  “For sure, some erosion can be expected at the edges in
next year’s six state elections but by then her fortunes could
have brightened,” said Collier of the Free University. “She
may seem charisma-challenged to foreigners, but Germans
appreciate her quiet confidence -- and that was no better
exemplified than this week in Brussels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Czuczka  in Brussels via 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  