-- Fakahany Says Merrill Enhanced Risk Management Before Crisis
-- B y   J u l i e   H y m a n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-10-29T17:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/merrill-ex-president-fakahany-says-risk-management-increased-before-crisis.html
Merrill Lynch & Co. enhanced risk
controls in the years before mortgage losses eroded its capital
and led to a forced sale to  Bank of America Corp.  in 2008,
former co-President  Ahmass Fakahany  said.  “The risk dynamic in the financial-services industry was
getting broader and more complicated, especially on the
regulatory front, and so we had to buttress our capabilities,”
Fakahany, 52, said in an interview aired today on Bloomberg
Television. “We expanded the number of risk managers on the
trading floor.”  Fakahany was responding to a book excerpt in the  November
issue  of Vanity Fair magazine saying he reduced the role of risk
managers. The excerpt is from “All the Devils Are Here,” by
 Bethany McLean  and  Joe Nocera , scheduled to be published in
November, according to Vanity Fair. Merrill’s risk department
went into “decline” after Fakahany was given responsibility
for it, and he knew “next to nothing” about risk management,
according to the excerpt, which doesn’t name its sources.  Fakahany said he wasn’t contacted by the book’s authors
before it went to press and declined to comment to a Vanity Fair
staffer prior to publication of the excerpt because he said he
didn’t know what it would say. When contacted by Bloomberg News,
Nocera said he Googled Fakahany, couldn’t find him, and never
called him.  “I spent 20 years with the firm in control groups with
risk committees, with regulators, with auditors,” Fakahany said
in the Bloomberg interview. “It would be totally ridiculous to
try to dilute the risk program as the company was becoming more
complicated, given that was my background and my skill set.”  ‘Best Practice’  The excerpt says one risk manager quit after Fakahany
promoted the head of credit risk to oversee managers of other
areas, including market risk. The manager viewed the changes as
a “degradation of the risk function,” according to the
excerpt.  Appointing a single manager to oversee all categories of
risk and integrate them more closely was becoming “best
practice” at the time, as it is now, and was encouraged by
regulators, Fakahany said.  “It’s complicated,” he said. “It’s not as simple as a
small anecdote.”  Fakahany joined New York-based  Merrill  in 1987. He served
as chief financial officer from 2002 to 2005, when he was named
chief administrative officer, with responsibility for risk
management. Fakahany was promoted to co-president by Merrill
Chief Executive Officer  Stan O’Neal  in May 2007. O’Neal was
ousted in October 2007, and the company posted a $9.8 billion
loss in the fourth quarter of 2007. Merrill announced Fakahany’s
retirement in January 2008.  In the Bloomberg interview, Fakahany declined to give his
views on what went wrong at Merrill. “I don’t know anyone who
wouldn’t have done certain things differently in retrospect,”
he said. 