-- Erste Shares Fall as Bad Loans in Eastern Europe Offset Earnings Increase
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2010-10-29T15:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/erste-bank-third-quarter-profit-rises-16-as-east-europe-bad-loans-decline.html
Erste Group Bank AG , eastern
Europe’s second-biggest lender, fell the most in a month after
bad-loan charges in the region overshadowed third-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates.  Erste dropped 47 cents, or 1.4 percent, the most since
Sept. 27, to 32.43 euros a share at the market close in Vienna.
That trimmed the stock’s advance this year to 24 percent.  Erste and competitors, including  UniCredit SpA ,  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG  and  OTP Bank Nyrt. , have been hurt by
rising bad debt in eastern Europe as most of the former
Communist part of the region contracted. Bad-loan provisions,
most of them in eastern Europe, have consumed more than half of
Erste’s operating profit in each of the last six quarters.  Loan losses are proving to be “sticky” for banks in the
region,  Ronny Rehn , an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc.,
wrote in a note to clients after Erste reported results today.  Net income rose 16 percent to 265 million euros ($368
million) in the third quarter, the Vienna-based bank said in a
statement, topping the 243 million-euro median estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Bad-debt charges in eastern
Europe climbed 12 percent from the previous quarter, the first
increase this year. Units in Romania and Hungary swung to a
quarterly loss, and profit in the Czech Republic dropped.  “It’s a headline beat, but the deeper you dig into the
numbers, the less great it looks,” said  Daniele Brupbacher , an
analyst at UBS AG in Zurich.  ‘Dominant Driver’  Erste Chief Executive Officer  Andreas Treichl  reiterated in
a conference call with analysts today that bad-debt charges will
probably remain at the previous year’s level in 2010 and may
decline in 2011.  This “will be a dominant driver for earnings not only in
2011, but in the next few years,”  Dirk Becker , an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets, wrote in a note to clients.  In Romania, where Erste owns the largest bank, Banca
Comerciala Romana SA, more than one in six loans is now non-
performing. This quarter’s rise was mainly due to retail
borrowers, while in the next two quarters, corporate credit will
deteriorate faster, BCR’s head  Dominic Bruynseels  said in the
conference call. Romania is among four countries in the former
Communist bloc that will continue to contract this year, by 1.9
percent, the International Monetary Fund said Oct. 20.  In the Czech Republic, where Erste also owns the biggest
bank, Ceska Sporitelna AS, profit declined 30 percent because
some large real estate loans defaulted, the Austrian lender
said. In Hungary, the loss was mainly due to a 36 million-euro
charge for the banking tax introduced this year.  Net income at Erste was boosted by the group’s unit for
large, mostly Austrian, corporate clients, which almost tripled
profit on lower provisions. Trading income that was higher than
analysts projected also helped earnings.  With reporting by Jonathan Tirone in Vienna. Editors:
Christiane Lenzner, Stephen Taylor  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  