-- Mets' New GM Sandy Alderson Seeks Payroll Flexibility, Better Farm System
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-10-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/mets-gm-alderson-says-team-needs-payroll-flexibility-improved-farm-teams.html
The New York Mets’ next manager must
be an independent thinker, newly hired General Manager  Sandy Alderson  said yesterday in his team debut.  The Mets are narrowing their list of candidates and
probably will begin interviewing them next week, Alderson said.  “I have in my time worked with a range of managers from
 Tony La Russa  to  Billy Martin ,” he said at a Citi Field news
conference. “I can appreciate a fiery manager and I think a
fiery manager is actually quite desirable. I also think that
it’s important for a manager to be somewhat analytical but at
the same time occasionally, and sometimes often, intuitive.”  He stressed that the person he chooses as manager must
reflect his philosophy and that of the Mets’ organization.  “Our goal is to constantly improve the probabilities of
success to the point where we will have that success on a
constant basis,” said Alderson, who was a pioneer in using
statistics to identify undervalued players.  Alderson also said the team needs to improve its payroll
flexibility and player-development system in order to be
successful.  ‘Payroll Flexibility’  “As far as the system is concerned generally right now,
it’s probably middle of the pack,” Alderson said. “As far as
the major league roster is concerned, there is a lot of payroll
already committed. One of the things we want to achieve at some
time very soon is payroll flexibility.”  Alderson, 62, signed a four-year contract and is charged
with reshaping a team that went 79-83 last season -- its fourth
straight without a trip to the playoffs --before jettisoning GM
 Omar Minaya  and manager  Jerry Manuel .  An Ivy League-educated ex-Marine, Alderson was the GM for
the Oakland Athletics from 1983 to 1997, has been chief
executive officer of the San Diego Padres and worked as an
executive for Major League Baseball.  Alderson said he won’t always be the final decision-maker
on player-personnel moves, and he cautioned against prematurely
judging Mets players who underachieved in 2010.  “We need to be careful about writing off any player or any
other asset without thinking about it carefully,” Alderson said.
“I think we want to be thoughtful about everything we do.”  Fans Flee  The Mets are coming off a season marked by injuries to key
players such as  Carlos Beltran  and  Johan Santana , legal problems
for All-Star relief pitcher  Francisco Rodriguez , and poor
performance from players such as  Jason Bay , a highly rated free-
agent signing who batted .259 with six home runs.  There was also a sea of empty seats at the Mets’ two-year-
old, $850 million Citi Field. Attendance this season totaled 2.6
million, down 600,000 from 2009. The team finished in fourth
place in the National League East, 18 games behind the division-
leading Philadelphia Phillies despite having the fifth-highest
payroll in baseball.  “I by no means am looking beyond 2011,” Alderson said.
“My job is to put the best possible team on the field in 2011.
If we work at it, we should have every chance to be
competitive.”  Alderson said the Mets job was a “unique opportunity” and
he wouldn’t have taken another GM position. He said his career
has been driven by curiosity and the lack of a plan.  “What I’ve really enjoyed about baseball, when you boil it
down, is the game itself,” he said. “This was an opportunity
to go back to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  