-- EU's Barnier Says China Needs to Follow Through on Global Responsibility
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-29T18:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/eu-s-barnier-says-china-needs-to-follow-through-on-global-resposibility.html
China needs to follow through on its
commitment to help rebalance the global economy, particularly in
the context of foreign-exchange policy, European Union Financial
Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said today.  “If China wants to keep its rank at the table of the big
actors, which is its rightful place, they also have a
responsibility they must answer to,” Barnier said today in a
speech at the Atlantic Council, a public policy group in
Washington.  Barnier said France, which will hold the rotating chair of
the  Group of 20  economic powers in 2011, is right to ask about
“monetary stability” as part of its call for international
monetary reforms. He also said the euro should not bear too much
of the brunt of any yuan appreciation against the dollar.  “On the EU side, it would be very hard for us to accept,
to keep on being the adjustment variable,” said Barnier, a
former French government cabinet minister.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers agreed to
“refrain” from a race to weaken their currencies to gain
economic advantage, in Oct. 22-23 meetings in Gyeongju, South
Korea. The G-20 said exchange rates should be market determined,
echoing U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s calls for
China to allow the yuan to rise.  Barnier and Geithner discussed a range of financial
regulatory issues in a Washington meeting today. According to a
joint U.S.-EU statement, they agreed that systemically important
financial firms should undergo regular stress tests and be
subject to extra supervision and loss absorption requirements.  ‘Special Responsibility’  “The United States and the European Union, as the world’s
two largest economies and financial systems, have a special
responsibility to promote and implement stronger global
financial standards,” the statement said.  The officials also repeated their support for
“convergence” on derivatives regulation and agreed to a
December 2011 implementation date for trading-book rules from
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  U.S. and European regulators are working out how to enforce
capital and liquidity requirements so banks can’t evade the new
standards, a U.S. Treasury official told Bloomberg in an
interview yesterday.  Heading into next year, the G-20 will focus on whether to
add additional risk-protection requirements, on top of the Basel
III standards, to firms whose collapse could threaten the entire
financial system, the U.S. official said. Proposals under
discussion include a surcharge, contingent capital or other
strategies to improve their ability to withstand losses.  Likely to Differ  U.S. and European regulators are likely to differ on how to
impose such requirements, because of the different roles banks
play in the U.S. and European economies, said  Doug Elliott , an
economics fellow at the  Washington-based Brookings Institution 
and a former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker. “I am positive there
will be a capital surcharge for the systemically important
financial institutions,” Elliott said in an interview after
Barnier’s speech.  The U.S. Treasury official endorsed the European
Commission’s approval this month of new rules for hedge funds
and private equity firms, saying the move is an important step
forward on the issue. Geithner has written his European
counterparts several times about the rules, saying they need to
be designed in a way that does not penalize non-European funds.  Geithner and Barnier “reaffirmed their ongoing commitment
to the principle of non-discrimination in current discussions as
well as in the future development and implementation of rules
for fund managers and funds, in recognition of the importance of
maintaining a global level playing field,” the joint statement
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  