-- European Stocks Drop for Week on Concern Stimulus Impact Will Fall Short
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/european-stocks-post-weekly-decline-on-concern-over-impact-of-fed-stimulus.html
European stocks  had the first weekly
decline in four weeks as concern grew that central bank stimulus
measures will be insufficient to sustain the economic rebound.  Bank shares tumbled the most in four weeks after UBS AG
reported a surprise investment-banking loss.  Sandvik AB , the
world’s biggest maker of metal-cutting tools, fell 5.7 percent
as earnings missed analyst estimates. Scania AB slid 6.8 percent
as the truckmaker’s sales trailed projections. Telecommunication
shares rose after France Telecom SA’s earnings beat estimates
and Norway’s Telenor ASA raised its forecast.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.3 percent to 265.96 this
past week, trimming October’s gain to 2.4 percent. The benchmark
measure for European equities has rallied 15 percent from this
year’s low in May amid better-than-expected earnings and
speculation the Federal Reserve will unveil a second round of
asset purchases next month to help stimulate the recovery.  “We expect to have a much clearer picture of the
environment in the next few weeks and will be in a better
position to take advantage of the irrationality that has entered
the markets,” said  Alex Moiseev , principal and chief investment
officer at Dighton Capital in London. Meanwhile, “it is better
to be in cash than other asset classes.”  National benchmark indexes declined in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s  CAC 40  fell 0.9 percent, Germany’s
DAX slipped 0.1 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 retreated 1.2
percent.  Fed Stimulus  Fed policy makers are scheduled to meet Nov. 2-3 to
consider ways to boost the economy. They are likely to offer a
program of Treasury purchases worth a few hundred billion
dollars over several months, compared with the $2 trillion
program enacted during the financial crisis, the Wall Street
Journal reported this week, without saying where it obtained the
information.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter as consumer spending climbed, a sign the expansion
is developing staying power, Commerce Department figures showed.  “The recent string of better-than-expected economic data,
which culminated the U.S. GDP figure today, has seen support for
another round of quantitative easing in the U.S. wane among FOMC
members,”  Mads Koefoed , a market strategist at Saxo Bank A/S in
Copenhagen, said yesterday. “Stocks have been powering higher
on expectations of a QE amount of $1 trillion, but are now
losing momentum as such a vast stimulus program is under attack
from improving economic data.”  Banks Decline  Bank shares were the worst performers among  19 industries 
in the Stoxx 600, tumbling every day this week to the lowest
level in almost four weeks.  UBS , Switzerland’s biggest bank, retreated 4.4 percent
after reporting a surprise third-quarter loss at its investment
bank on a slump in trading. Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  blamed “very low levels of client activity” and a
charge on the bank’s own debt.  Piraeus Bank SA led a decline in Greek lenders, sliding 7.2
percent, after saying it plans to raise 1.05 billion euros ($1.5
billion) selling shares and convertible bonds to bolster
capital. Larger rivals National Bank of Greece SA and EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA retreated 5.1 percent and 13 percent,
respectively.  Bank of Ireland Plc dropped 12 percent and Allied Irish
Banks Plc retreated 14 percent. Irish Central Bank Governor
 Patrick Honohan  said tougher action is required to reduce the
nation’s budget deficit after a fiscal deterioration “worse
than almost any other country” during the financial crisis.  Sandvik, Scania  A measure of industrial goods and services stocks slid 1.7
percent for the third-worst performance in the Stoxx 600.  Sandvik  reported third-quarter profit that missed analysts’
estimates after the krona’s gains against the euro and dollar
hurt earnings. The shares ended the week 5.7 percent lower, the
biggest weekly drop since July 30.  Scania, the Swedish truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen AG,
fell 6.8 percent after third-quarter revenue and orders trailed
analysts’ estimates.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S , the world’s largest maker of wind
turbines, was the biggest loser in the Stoxx 600, plummeting 15
percent as the company said orders will decline next year and it
will cut 3,000 jobs because of reduced demand.  Separately, Enel Green Power chose rival Siemens AG to
deliver machines for new European projects.  SSAB, Oriflame  SSAB AB , Sweden’s largest steelmaker, sank 12 percent after
reporting third-quarter net income that fell short of analyst
estimates. Deutsche Bank AG cut its recommendation on the shares
to “sell” from “hold.”  Oriflame Cosmetics AB  tumbled 14 percent after the Swedish
maker of cosmetics cut its sales and operating margin forecasts
for this year.  “Recent negative currency development in combination with
continued investment in top-line growth activities leads us to
lower the outlook for operating margin for the full year,”
Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Braennstroem  said.  Telecommunication stocks were the best performing industry
among European equities this week, rising 2.6 percent to the
highest level since July 2008.  France Telecom, the country’s largest phone company,
advanced 3.6 percent after its third-quarter net income beat
analysts’ estimates. Telenor and Swedish rival  TeliaSonera AB ,
the Nordic region’s two largest phone companies, climbed 5.6
percent and 0.9 percent, respectively, after raising their full-
year earnings forecasts.  ‘Not Too Expensive’  “Most companies, especially those with a large export
profile, have done well,” said  Ben Hauzenberger , a Zurich-based
fund manager at Swisscanto Asset Management AG, which oversees
$53 billion. “Equities are still not too expensive so there is
still room for some upside provided there are no negative
surprises.”  Of the 144 companies in the  Stoxx 600  to have posted
results since Oct. 7, 68 percent have beaten analyst estimates
for per-share income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In the U.S., 80 percent of Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies
have topped predictions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 