-- Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Coffee Supplies May Decline on India, Vietnam
-- B y   E d i t o r :   R i c h a r d   D o b s o n .
-- 2010-10-29T05:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/europe-commodity-day-ahead-coffee-supplies-may-decline-on-india-vietnam.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE EVENTS:  
Metal Prices: ($/ton)  Last  % Chg Aluminum        2,22    -1.1 Copper
8,243   -1.2 Lead            2,455   -2.0 Zinc            2,442
 -2.1 Nickel         22,833   -1.2 Tin            26,100   -0.6  Other Markets:  Last   %Chg      %YTD  U.S. Dollar Index     77.412   +0.1
  -0.6 Crude Oil            $81.70   -0.6      +3.0 Gold  $1,340.50   -0.3      +22  MSCI World Index    1,220.55   -
0.1      +4.5 *T  EXCLUSIVE:  Coffee Supply May Tighten on Indian Delay, Lower Vietnam Output  Global coffee supplies may tighten after an Indian
exporters’ group forecast a delay in harvesting because of
extended rains and an industry association in Vietnam said that
production may decline, potentially boosting prices.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Drops From London to Shanghai, Paring Fourth Monthly Gain  Copper declined from London to Shanghai, paring a fourth
monthly gain, on concern that the recent rally in prices slowed
purchases in China, the world’s largest consumer.  MINING:  Potash Corp.’s Doyle Urges Patience on Alternatives to BHP’s Bid  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Bill Doyle said anyone who thinks BHP Billiton Ltd. will be the
only qualified bidder for the Canadian fertilizer maker should
“be patient.”  China May Identify Molybdenum as National Resource, Journal Says  China is preparing to classify molybdenum as a so called
national mining resource to limit the mining of the minor metal
starting next year, the China Securities Journal reported today,
citing an unidentified person.  China’s Major Steelmakers Nine-Month Profit Gains 98%, Cisa Says  China’s 77 large-and-medium-sized steel makers recorded a
combined profit of 64 billion yuan in the first nine months, an
increase of 98 percent over the previous year, the China Iron &
Steel Association said on its website today. Sales revenues
gained 39.5 percent to 2.25 trillion yuan, the association said.  China’s Steel Exports to Decline, Association Says  China’s steel exports will drop “significantly” in the
fourth quarter from the first half because of the removal of a
tax rebate, yuan appreciation and lower demand, the China Iron
and Steel Association said.  China Says Iron Ore Price Talks for Next Year Have Started  Iron ore price talks for 2011 have started, Luo Bingsheng,
the vice president of the China Iron and Steel Association, told
reporters in Beijing today. He declined to comment further on
price negotiations or iron ore pricing.  Rio Tinto Sells $2 Billion of Debt to Fund 2013 Notes Buyback  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company,
sold $2 billion of bonds in a three-part offering to fund a
buyback of existing notes.  Southern Copper Hedged 11% of 2011 Copper Output at $3.73/LB  Southern Copper Corp., the largest metal producer in Peru
and Mexico, hedged 11 percent of its 2011 copper output at $3.73
per pound, according to a filing with Mexico’s stock exchange by
its parent company, Grupo Mexico SAB.  CSN Says Third-Quarter Profit Falls 37% on Price Cuts  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, Brazil’s third-largest
steelmaker, said third-quarter profit fell 37 percent as
increasing steel imports prompted the company to reduce prices.  BHP Wins Order Sealing Part of Revamped Potash Suit  BHP Billiton Ltd. won an interim court order sealing parts
of a revised complaint Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. filed
in an effort to block a $40 billion hostile takeover.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Drops as Biggest Rally in Two Weeks Prompts Investor Sales  Gold declined as the biggest rally in more than two weeks
prompted some investors to sell the precious metal to lock in
gains.  Silver, Palladium Flows Show Swing to Recovery: Chart of Day  Accelerating purchases of palladium, platinum and silver at
the expense of gold signals investors may be increasing bets on
an economic recovery.  Gold May Decline on Concern Prices Rose Too High, Survey Shows  Gold may decline on concern that prices rose too high amid
speculation about Federal Reserve asset purchases, a survey
found.  Gold Will Outlive Dollar Once Slaughter Comes: John Hathaway  The world’s monetary system is in the process of melting
down. We have entered the endgame for the dollar as the dominant
reserve currency, but most investors and policy makers are
unaware of the implications.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn, Rice Head for Biggest Monthly Gains in More Than Two Years  Corn headed for its biggest monthly advance since June 2008
on concern that global demand will outpace falling U.S. output.
Rice was set for its best monthly gain in more than two years as
floods damaged Asian crops.  Palm Oil Drops as Discount to Soybean Oil Narrows to 3-Week Low  Palm oil declined from a 27-month high after the discount
at which it trades to rival soybean oil narrowed to a three-week
low.  Corn’s 2-Year High Fails to Curb Ethanol Profit: Energy Markets  The highest corn costs in two years are failing to dent
profits for U.S. ethanol producers as demand grows and prices
for the biofuel and a byproduct used for animal feed increase.  China Agricultural Price Gains ‘Are Expected,’ New Hope Says  Most of China’s agricultural product prices are still lower
than global levels, so gains are expected, Liu Yonghao, chairman
of New Hope Group Co., said in Beijing today. New Hope is the
biggest maker of livestock feed in China.  Vietnam’s Rice Shipments May Decline Next Year, Thoi Bao Says  Vietnam’s rice exports may decline to 6 million metric tons
in 2011, the Thoi Bao Kinh Te Vietnam newspaper reported, citing
a forecast from the Ministry of Trade and Industry.  SOFT COMMODITIES:  Rubber Drops, Paring Monthly Gain as China May Curb Prices  Rubber declined, paring a monthly gain, as futures in
Shanghai slumped amid concern that China may tighten trading
rules to curb excessive speculation and data showed Japan’s
industrial production dropped at a faster pace.  Sugar Rises to Eight-Month High on Thailand Flood; Cotton Falls  Sugar prices rose to an eight-month high after floods hurt
crops in Thailand, the world’s second-biggest exporter. Cotton
fell for the second straight day.  DAIRY  Global Dairy IPO Soured by Melamine Scandal Memories  Global Dairy Holdings Ltd. fell for a second day in Hong
Kong after yesterday enduring the city’s fifth-worst trading
debut of 2010 as skepticism about China’s dairy industry lingers
two years after about 300,000 children were sickened by tainted
milk.  ECONOMIES:  Australia Wealth Fund to Swell Property, Infrastructure Assets  Australia’s sovereign wealth fund plans to increase
property and infrastructure investments and cut debt holdings
this fiscal year to diversify A$69.3 billion ($68 billion) of
assets.  Japan ‘Behind’ in Fighting Deflation as Fed Gears Up  The Bank of Japan’s inflation forecast shows it won’t meet
its own guidelines for price stability, a prediction that
signals policy makers haven’t pumped enough cash into the
economy.  China May Clamp Down on Yuan as Exports Tumble: Chart of Day  China’s exports may slide from year-earlier levels in
coming months, providing justification for the government to
rein in gains by the yuan against the dollar, according to Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc.  Singapore Employers Boost Payrolls, Jobless Rate Drops to 2.1%  Singapore employers expanded payrolls for a fifth
consecutive quarter, pushing the jobless rate to the lowest in 2
1/2 years.  OTHER MARKETS:  Crude Oil Drops Below $82 a Barrel After U.S. Equities Decline  Oil declined in New York after most U.S. equities fell,
signaling a recovery in fuel demand in the world’s biggest crude
consuming nation may falter.  Junk Sets October Record, Mortgage Bonds Rally: Credit Markets  Sales of junk bonds in the U.S. set a record for October as
returns topped investment-grade debt and more borrowers were
raised than cut. Government-backed mortgage bonds may beat
Treasuries by the most in at least 10 years.  Dollar May Be Nearing Bottom, Rise to 82 Yen: Technical Analysis  The dollar may rebound toward 82 yen as technical charts
indicate the currency is nearing a bottom, according to Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. 