-- Europe Inflation Unexpectedly Quickens; Jobless at 12-Year High
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-29T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/europe-inflation-unexpectedly-quickens-to-1-9-jobless-hits-12-year-high.html
European inflation unexpectedly
accelerated to the fastest in almost two years and  unemployment 
was at a 12-year high as the recovery showed signs of losing
momentum.  Euro-area  consumer prices  rose 1.9 percent in October from
a year earlier after increasing 1.8 percent in September, the
European Union statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That’s the fastest since November 2008 and above the 1.8 percent
forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate
was 10.1 percent in September, the highest since July 1998, a
separate report showed.  Crude-oil prices have jumped 9.2 percent over the past two
months, leaving companies and consumers with less money to spend
just as a stronger euro threatens to hurt exports. With the
recovery  faltering  and governments tackling budget deficits,
companies may keep hiring plans on hold, further eroding
spending.  “The euro-region labor market is in a poor condition and
will probably even worsen in 2011,” said  Christian Melzer , an
economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “That’s why we’re far from
a wage-price spiral.”  Today’s inflation report is an  initial estimate  and the
statistics office will release a breakdown of consumer prices on
Nov. 16. Economists had forecast inflation at 1.8 percent in
October, the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg survey
showed.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as
energy prices, was at 1 percent in September.  Higher Costs  Companies may struggle to pass on higher costs to
households as governments from France to Spain step up efforts
to push down budget shortfalls such as through tax increases.
Europe’s  manufacturing and service industries  expanded at the
weakest pace in a year in October and German  investor confidence 
dropped to the lowest in almost a year.  While a stronger euro is helping contain price pressures,
it’s also threatening exports, which drove the recovery in the
first half of the year.  MAN SE , the region’s third-largest
truckmaker, yesterday reported third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Schneider Electric SA , the world’s biggest
maker of circuit breakers, raised its full-year margin target
for a second time on Oct. 20.  While the euro-region economy expanded at the fastest pace
in four years in the second quarter, that’s failed so far to
translate into faster job creation as companies remain reluctant
to boost labor costs.  Unemployment  Some 15.9 million people within the euro region were
unemployed in September, up 67,000 from the previous month,
today’s report showed. The August jobless rate was revised to 10
percent from 10.1 percent reported earlier.  At 20.8 percent, Spain had the highest jobless rate in the
euro region, while the Netherlands had the lowest rate at 4.4
percent. In the 27-nation EU, unemployment held at 9.6 percent
last month.  The European Central Bank, which aims to keep annual gains
in consumer prices just below 2 percent, has signaled confidence
that the euro-area economy will avoid a renewed recession. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  projected “moderate” inflation
in 2011 on Oct. 7.  There are signs pointing toward a “certain weakening in
the second half of the year,” ECB Executive Board member
 Juergen Stark  said on Oct. 27. Still, the recovery “should
continue at a moderate pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  