-- Eurotunnel Said to Vie With 3i, Allianz, Borealis for High-Speed Rail Link
-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2010-10-29T14:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/eurotunnel-goldman-group-bids-for-rail-link-to-channel-tunnel.html
Groupe Eurotunnel SA ’s bid for the
rail line from London to the Channel Tunnel faces competition
from 3i Group Plc, the Borealis infrastructure fund and German
insurer Allianz SE, people with knowledge of the auction said.  Eurotunnel made an offer for the High Speed 1 contract,
valued by analysts at 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion), before
a noon deadline in London, said Kate Hill, a spokeswoman for the
company’s GB Speedrail bid vehicle, in an interview. The group
includes the infrastructure units of Eurotunnel shareholders
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Prudential Plc, she said.  Offers also came from 3i Infrastructure Plc teamed with
Morgan Stanley’s infrastructure unit and Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority, and from Canada’s Borealis Infrastructure Management
with the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the sale process is private.  Isabel Unsworth , a spokeswoman in London for 3i, Europe’s
largest publicly traded private equity firm, declined to
comment. Toronto-based Borealis didn’t immediately respond to
calls to its office in the U.K. capital.  The fourth bid is from Munich-based  Allianz , Europe’s
largest insurer, advised by Bank of America Corp., the people
said. Allianz spokesman  Michael Matern  declined to comment.  Britain’s coalition government is selling a 30-year
concession to run High Speed 1 through state-owned London &
Continental Railways as part of an asset-disposal program aimed
at paying down a 155 billion-pound budget deficit.  “We have a unique combination of expertise in railway and
infrastructure-operating skills, infrastructure-management
skills and access to finance,” GB’s Hill said by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St. Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net  