-- Eutelsat Declines Most in Two Years as Satellite Lost on Propulsion Fault
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-10-29T14:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/eutelsat-shares-drop-most-in-two-years-in-paris-after-loss-of-satellite.html
Eutelsat Communications SA  declined
the most in almost two years in Paris trading after reporting
the loss of its W3B satellite following “an anomaly” detected
on the propulsion subsystem.  The world’s third-largest satellite company  fell  as much as
6.1 percent, the biggest intraday drop since Dec. 5, 2008, and
traded 3.3 percent lower at 26.54 euros at 3:43 p.m.  The satellite was aimed at providing broadcasting and
telecommunications services in Central Europe. It was set to
replace three other Eutelsat satellites, which will now remain
in full service until the arrival of its next vehicle, W3C,
whose launch is slated for mid-2011. Eutelsat said it will
immediately start a new satellite program to “compensate for
this loss,” with a planned launch in the first quarter of 2013.  Eutelsat’s “margin of safety is reduced,” analysts
including  Wilton Fry  at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research wrote
in a note. “If Eutelsat is unlucky and loses another satellite
at launch, its ability to hit forecasts may be brought into
question as it may not be able to meet client demands.”  The Paris-based company said the loss of W3B doesn’t change
the guidance it gave in July. The satellite was built by Thales
Alenia Space, a joint venture between  Thales SA  and Finmeccanica
SpA. W3B was lifted into space by a rocket belonging to
Arianespace, the world’s biggest commercial satellite launcher,
from the European spaceport in Kourou, French Guiana.  Fully Insured  A team of investigators, including a Eutelsat official,
will study the causes of the failure, said  Florence Pontieux , a
spokeswoman for Thales Alenia. The company won’t have further
comment until the completion of that investigation, which could
take days or even weeks, she said.  “The loss of W3B is a disappointment for Eutelsat and for
our customers,” Chief Executive Officer  Michel de Rosen  said in
a statement today. Eutelsat said it’s fully insured for the
investment in W3B, which guarantees that it doesn’t “incur any
direct financial loss.”  Eutelsay forecast on July 30 that revenue and  operating
income  before depreciation, amortisation, impairments and other
charges in the fiscal year through June 2011 will advance to
more than 1.12 billion euros ($1.56 billion) and 875 million
euros respectively.  The launch of the W3B had been expected to open “a new
chapter at our 16 degrees east location, which is already the
chosen neighborhood for over 400 television channels, making it
one of our four fastest-growing video positions,” the company
had said in a statement today before the anomaly was reported.  Other Problems  Eutelsat has had problems with its satellites before. In
January 2009, it said the W2M satellite it launched the previous
month wasn’t working properly because of a defect in the power
subsystem. The satellite’s performance didn’t meet standards set
by its manufacturers and wasn’t added to Eutelsat’s fleet.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. ’s Astrium unit and
Antrix Corp., the commercial arm of the Indian Space Research
Organisation, built that satellite.  SES SA , the world’s largest publicly traded satellite
operator, said in April that it had shut down some transponders
on the AMC-16 satellite in March to conserve energy because of
solar-power system failures. SES said on April 10 that the
launch of the Astra 3B satellite was postponed because of a
rocket pressurization-system flaw.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  