-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Broker Gets One Year in Scheme
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-10-29T20:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/ex-morgan-stanley-broker-gets-one-year-in-scheme.html
A former broker for  Morgan Stanley 
and  Bank of America Corp.  was sentenced to one year and a day in
prison for receiving kickbacks in a stock-loan scheme.  Salvatore Zangari , 34, was sentenced today by U.S. District
Judge  John Gleeson  in Brooklyn, New York. When he pleaded guilty
April 15, Zangari admitted that he conspired in a plan that
resulted in the payment of sham fees to a purported stock-loan
finder. The scheme lasted from March 2004 to December 2005,
prosecutors said.  “Stupidity. I really can’t sit here and justify what I
did,” Zangari told the judge when asked why he participated.  Zangari’s guilty plea marked the 32nd conviction obtained
as part of an investigation of the stock-loan industry,
according to  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney
 Loretta Lynch  in Brooklyn. The probe focuses on allegations that
employees took bribes or purported finder fees, often when no
services had been rendered.  Zangari’s crime called for a sentence of 1 1/2 to 2 years
under federal guidelines, prosecutors said.  “I’m here today to take full responsibility for my
actions,” Zangari said in court. “I have no excuse for what
I’ve done.”  Cash Payments  Zangari, of New York City, received more than $187,000 in
kickbacks in the scheme, according to prosecutors. He paid back
$65,600, the amount that was deposited in his bank accounts,
prosecutors said. Zangari was accused of conspiring with another
former Morgan Stanley broker,  Peter Sherlock , who pleaded guilty
in March 2008 to taking illegal kickbacks and died at age 38
before he was to be sentenced.  “He obviously knew what he was doing in getting these cash
payments at discreet locations,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Winston Paes said about Zangari in court today.  The judge said that U.S. financial markets are regulated in
part by making sure those who skirt the law are punished to
deter others.  “I think the sentence requires a period of incarceration
but not the period requested by the government,” he said.  Zangari must surrender Jan. 14. Gleeson said he would
recommend the federal prison in Fort Dix, New Jersey, at
Zangari’s request.  ‘Mystifying’  Zangari’s case was “mystifying” because, with no
dependents and making “north of a couple hundred thousand a
year,” he didn’t need the money from the scheme, the judge
said.  “I am mystified that this crime got committed,” he said.  One of Zangari’s lawyers,  Randy Zelin  of Westbury, New
York, told the judge his client has expressed more concern about
how his actions have affected his family and friends than how
they have affected him.  “Judge Gleeson gives the people in his courtroom a fair
shake,” Zelin said in a phone interview after the hearing.
“This is a classic example of human frailties and judges having
to wrestle with good people doing bad things.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in a March
complaint that Zangari had been employed as a stock-loan trader
for 11 years at several Wall Street brokerage firms where he was
responsible for “negotiating, arranging and entering into
stock-loan transactions” on behalf of the firms.  Friends  The SEC said he worked most recently at  UBS AG , from
October 2006 to July 2009. He was at Bank of America from May
2005 to October 2006 and at Morgan Stanley from August 1998 to
May 2005, according to the SEC.  Loans of stock are made to an investor who is selling
short, or betting the price will drop, to cover delivery of the
shares to the buyer.  The SEC said that Zangari and Sherlock, of East Norwich,
New York, were friends, and that Sherlock approached him in
March 2004 to ask if he was “interested in making some extra
cash” by participating in the kickback scheme.  The case is U.S. v Zangari, 10-cr-00255, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 