-- Ex-Terrorist Meskini Sentenced to 31 Months More After Trying to Buy AK-47
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-29T23:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/ex-terrorist-meskini-sentenced-to-31-months-more-after-trying-to-buy-ak-47.html
Abdelghani Meskini , convicted in an
al-Qaeda plot to bomb Los Angeles International Airport, was
sent back to prison by a judge who said he violated parole by
trying to obtain an assault rifle and lying to authorities.  U.S. prosecutors charged that Meskini, 42, an Algerian who
pleaded guilty in 2001 to charges stemming from the foiled
attack, slipped back into a life of crime after completing a
six-year sentence. Meskini took a job in 2005 as a manager for a
suburban Atlanta apartment complex where the U.S. said he
participated in drug dealing, prostitution and bank fraud.  Meskini’s testimony helped convict two co-defendants who
intended to detonate a suitcase bomb at Los Angeles Airport in
December 1999. Defense lawyer Mark DeMarco told U.S. District
Judge  John Keenan  today that his client had been ill-used by
U.S. authorities who, despite his contributions, did nothing to
help Meskini after his release from prison.  “Your honor presided over Mr. Meskini’s sentencing,”
DeMarco said. “Your honor knows now what Mr. Meskini did for
the government, how his testimony in several trials helped
secure convictions of terrorists who planned to do some pretty
bad things.”  Keenan interrupted him, saying, “Oh boy, they were worse
than ‘pretty bad,’ ” he said. “If you remember, they wanted to
blow up the Los Angeles Airport on the day of the millennium,
New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day of 1999 into 2000.”  Transporting Explosives  The so-called millennium plot was thwarted when  Ahmed Ressam , another Algerian, was arrested on Dec. 14, 1999, while
transporting explosives across the U.S.-Canadian border near
Seattle. Meskini, who was living in Brooklyn, New York, was
charged after his telephone number was found in Ressam’s pocket.  Meskini testified for the government in federal trials in
2001. After being sentenced in January 2004, he was released
from prison in 2005 after receiving credit for time served and
good behavior. Today, Keenan sent him back for 31 months on five
violations of the terms of release.  At an Oct. 19 hearing, Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Michael Rosensaft said Meskini had gotten “a huge break on his
sentence” and “threw it all away.”  Meskini, who entered the U.S. illegally as a stow-away on a
tanker and helped finance the terror plot through bank fraud,
could have faced more than 100 years in prison after pleading
guilty to conspiracy charges related to the plot, the U.S. said.  ‘Hotbed’ of Crime  Keenan blamed the U.S. officials who oversaw Meskini after
prison for his working in a “a hotbed of criminal activity
where narcotics sales and prostitution occurred openly and
persistently.”  “The government’s attempt to put Meskini in jail for
associations about which it knew or should have known for
several years is disingenuous at best,” Keenan said in the
ruling.  During a two-day hearing beginning Oct. 13, prosecutors
called witnesses that included an Atlanta woman who said Meskini
advised her how to place ads for her prostitution business and a
man convicted of bank fraud who said he committed credit-card
and identity theft with Meskini.  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Christopher LaVigne  today
argued Meskini should be sentenced to more time because he had
possessed a handgun and attempted to buy an AK-47 assault rifle.  Atlanta Prostitute  Crystal Roughton, the prostitute who was also a resident of
the complex, testified during a two-day hearing that began Oct.
13, that around September 2009 Meskini asked her to help him
obtain an AK-47, “because he was AWOL from the military and he
might need it to get home.”  Roughton said Meskini sent her e-mails with photographs of
the AK-47 that he wanted. She and a second witness, Ricky
Stephenson, who was convicted of 168 counts of bank fraud,
testified they had seen Meskini with a handgun.  Roughton also said Meskini taught her how to do background
checks on her clients and helped proofread her ads because she
was a bad speller.  The case is U.S. v. Meskini, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  