-- Texas $23 Billion School Fund Run by Amateurs Faces Revamp Call for Pros
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-10-29T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/texas-23-billion-school-fund-run-by-amateurs-faces-revamp-call-for-pros.html
The  Texas  Permanent School Fund,
which backs $49.3 billion of municipal bonds and is overseen by
the same board that fought over how textbooks treat Islam, would
be run by professionals if Representative  Donna Howard  gets her
way.  Disclosure a year ago that a board member improperly took
gifts and questions about investments in charter schools may
help Howard, an Austin Democrat, get her bill to revamp the $23
billion fund’s management past the state legislature next year.
The measure didn’t survive a Senate committee in 2009 after
getting a two-thirds vote in the Republican-controlled House.  The fund , started with $2 million in 1854, is run by the
elected State Board of Education, which includes educators, a
newspaper publisher, real-estate broker and dentist. There’s no
rule that  members  possess financial expertise to run the money
pool, which generates cash for books, helps plug state budget
holes and guarantees billions of dollars in local-school debt.  “It’s a very political thing to give this much power to an
elected body,” said Howard, 59. “There is a potential there
for abuse and there seems to be no reason to keep it that way.”  Eight seats on the 15-member education board are in play in
elections Nov. 2. None of the major-party candidates for the
board, currently with 10 Republicans and five Democrats, has
financial experience, according to their websites. Most are
listed as career educators. One is a software engineer.  The only current member with a financial background --  Rick
Agosto , chief executive officer of San Antonio investment
company Aureus Partners Inc. -- isn’t seeking re-election.  Outside Staff  Finance experience isn’t necessary for the job because the
board hires outside staff, said Agosto, a Democrat who’s vice
chairman of the committee that oversees advisers and sets asset
allocations for the fund.  “It does what it is supposed to do,” said Agosto, 41.
“It provides a revenue stream and provides bond guarantees that
save school districts millions of dollars.”  The fund began guaranteeing school bonds in 1983, lending
local systems its AAA credit rating to get them the lowest
borrowing costs. The fund has never had to pay for a default. If
it had to, it can recoup its costs from an issuer’s state aid.  The fund also generates cash for education. In September,
the board approved $2.6 billion for textbooks and other
materials, freeing money to help balance the state’s budget.  The Board of Education manages $22.6 billion of the
Permanent School Fund. About $4.4 billion more, mostly physical
assets such as land and energy holdings, is run by the Texas
Land Commissioner, who’s also elected. The fund’s total value is
about $27 billion, according to a July 31 financial statement.  Benchmarks Exceeded  The part overseen by the school board lost 8.5 percent in
the  fiscal year  that ended Aug. 31, 2009, falling to a market
value of $20.6 billion, according to its annual report. It still
outperformed its target benchmark by 17 basis points. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The Permanent School Fund has solid returns,” said  Gail
Lowe,  a Lampasas Republican who chairs the school board. “We’re
an independent body and we have a good track record.”  Representative  Scott Hochberg , a Houston Democrat who’s
vice chairman of the House Committee on Public Education, said
professional management is needed so lawmakers can ensure the
fund is getting the best returns with the least risk.  “The state has been very fortunate about the results it
has gotten, but the returns don’t tell us anything about the
risk,” said Hochberg. “How would we know if something is going
seriously wrong? The board isn’t in a position to do that.”  Assets in Stocks  David Jaderlund , who works in fixed-income trading and
sales for investment adviser Hampstead Group LLC in Dallas, said
the 50 percent of the fund allocated to equities exposed it to
the stock market’s decline.  The fund stopped backing municipal bonds and cut its
contribution to the state last year after board-managed assets
shrunk to $17 billion in March 2009 from a peak of $26 billion
in mid-2007, a period in which the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
plunged more than 50 percent. It resumed bond guarantees in
February, after the S&P 500 reached a  15-month high .  “It was too weighted to equities because all of a sudden
it had to stop backing debt,” said Jaderlund, whose firm
focuses on Texas-issued municipal bonds. “You’d think there
would be more people with financial expertise.”  Standard & Poor’s, which rates the fund AAA, is one of
three credit evaluators that give the fund their highest marks.
S&P is satisfied that management practices justify the rating,
said  James Breeding , the analyst who covers the fund.  “We try not to get into the personalities,” he said.  Retaliatory Effort  State lawmakers’ effort to control the fund is retaliation
for controversial school-board decisions, Agosto said. The board
in September approved a non-binding  resolution  urging future
social studies textbooks provide “fair coverage” of religions
after a citizen asserted Islam was treated more favorably than
Christianity in earlier books. The seven-to-six vote came with
two members absent.  “The problem is the polarization of each of the members,”
he said. “Some legislators want to get back at them.”  Howard said the revelation in October 2009 that one board
member took a gift from a company seeking advisory work from the
fund is a reason why she will resubmit her bill.  The board member,  Rene Nunez,  an El Paso Democrat, agreed
in June to  settle  with the Texas Ethics Commission for accepting
and not disclosing $729 of gifts from AEW Capital Management, a
real estate advisory firm trying to get hired by the board.  The commission imposed a $400 penalty on Nunez, who didn’t
return a telephone call seeking comment.  Charter School Funds  The board’s July  decision  to consider using about $100
million from the fund to buy and lease buildings to charter
schools also influenced Howard to try again for professional
management, she said. The move seemed political rather than a
prudent investment because Texas charter schools don’t usually
get state funds for facilities, she said.  Howard’s  legislation  would create the Permanent School Fund
Management Council and require members to “have substantial
institutional-investment expertise or institutional financial-
management experience.”  She said the council would be under the  comptroller’s
office , which manages other state money. The legislation would
require a statewide vote to amend the constitution.  The board needs professionals to keep investment and
curriculum decisions separate, said Ryan Valentine, deputy
director of the  Texas Freedom Network  in Austin, which describes
itself as a monitor of “far-right issues, organizations and
leaders.” It called the board’s September decision on religion
in textbooks “anti-Islam.”  “When you have politicians controlling billions of dollars
in investments, politics clouds their decisions,” said
Valentine. “Billion-dollar investment decisions can complicate
decisions on textbooks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  