-- Swiss Stocks Fall; Synthes, ABB Slide as Meyer Burger Gains
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-29T15:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/meyer-roche-transocean-zurich-financial-swiss-equity-preview.html
Stocks in Switzerland fell, with the
benchmark Swiss Market Index heading for a monthly gain, as
investors digested the impact of faster U.S. economic growth on
the outlook for Federal Reserve stimulus.   Synthes Inc. , the maker of devices to treat spinal
injuries, slumped 1.8 percent after a U.S. rival cut its
earnings forecast.  ABB Ltd.  fell for a fourth day.  Meyer Burger
Technology AG  climbed 1.8 percent after it raised its full-year
sales target.  The  SMI  slipped 0.2 percent to 6,472.23 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich, having swung between gains and losses at least
eight times. The gauge has advanced 2.8 percent this month, the
biggest increase since February, amid speculation policy makers
in the U.S. and elsewhere will step up efforts to stimulate
economic growth through bond purchases, a strategy known as
quantitative easing. The broader Swiss Performance Index
retreated 0.1 percent today.  “The U.S. GDP figures were in line, which is a modest
relief given the generally weak economic data in the later part
of the summer into September,”  Antony Gifford , a London-based
manager at Henderson Global Investors, which oversees $87
billion, said today.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual pace
in the third quarter, up from a 1.7 percent rate in the prior
three months, according to the median estimate of 83 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The GDP estimate is the first of
three for the quarter, with revisions in November and December
when more information becomes available.  Synthes slipped 1.8 percent to 117.4 Swiss francs. U.S.
rival Zimmer Holdings Inc. yesterday narrowed its forecast for
the current fiscal year.  ABB Falls  ABB, the world’s biggest maker of power-transmission
equipment, fell 1.5 percent to 20.38 francs, extending the
decline over the past four days to 6.8 percent. The company slid
4.1 percent yesterday after earnings before interest and taxes
at the power products division, ABB’s largest by sales, fell to
$404 million from $477 million.  Meyer Burger, the maker of industrial cutting equipment,
jumped 1.8 percent to 31.3 francs, its second gain. The company
forecast fiscal full-year net sales of about 800 million francs
($812 million) instead of a previously projected 730 million
francs.  Schmolz & Bickenbach AG  fell 7.1 percent to 18.25 francs,
extending yesterday’s 4.2 percent decline when it released
details of its planned share sale. The manufacturer of steel
products said investors have the right to buy five new
registered shares for every two held at a price of 3.97 francs
each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 