-- Fangsmith Fashions Sharp Canines for His Party-Loving Vampires
-- B y   A l i x   G r e e n w a l d
-- 2010-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/fangsmith-fashions-sharp-canines-for-world-s-many-party-loving-vampires.html
Any one of the toothy ghouls you
spot on Halloween night could be clients of a Paris-based
fangsmith named  Father Sebastiaan van Houten .  A former dental assistant who made his first fangs for his
mother in 1994 on Christmas Day, van Houten is part of a complex
worldwide subculture of people who identify themselves as
vampires. They wear fangs and capes and corsets, they party
hard, and when the sun rises they disappear into normal day
jobs.  Van Houten, who is not a priest, says “Father” designates
his role as “fang maker.” He fashions custom canines from dental
acrylic and travels extensively in his other role as an
organizer of vampire events.  “I’ve made fangs for a Catholic priest, I’ve made fangs
for executives of record labels, a  Continental Airlines  pilot,”
says van Houten, who also works out of the Halloween Adventure
Store in Manhattan during October. He says he also made fangs
for “Twilight” actress Ashley Greene.  Van Houten, 35, produces the Endless Night Vampire Balls
held in Hollywood, Florida, Manhattan, New Orleans and Paris.
The New York incarnation took place on Oct. 21 at the club
Element on Houston Street. It featured belly dancer  JeniViva ,
who performed with a plate of tall candles on her head.  The New Orleans bash, which is tomorrow at the  House of
Blues , has been voted the No. 1 Halloween party in the world by
the website  TripAdvisor . The night of Paris’s living dead will
be held at the Moulin Rouge on April 23, 2011.  ‘Out of the Coffin’  I joined the bloodthirsty crowd at Club Element, a mix of
vampires, Goths and people who just enjoy the vamping. There I
chatted with a welder named Octavius; with Cal McQuade, who goes
by “Cairo” and said she manages a  Crumbs Bakeshop  in
Manhattan; and with Davin, a member of the U.S. Navy who said he
is not yet “out of the coffin.”  The only way to get a drink was to step on a man who was
lying face up on the floor in front of the bar wrapped in what
looked like an inside-out carpet and wearing a red mesh mask
with goggles. This was “his thing,” one attendee explained.  Tolerance seems to be a key element in the vampire culture.
A manifesto posted on van Houten’s website says, in part: “All
we ask is you come with the intent of an open mind, spend
countless hours thinking about your costumes and bring positive
energies to share with all.”  While the fangs that van Houten makes are sharp enough to
draw blood, he claims that most advanced vampires don’t drink
it. He used to but he stopped: “I realized it was just a fetish
-- it wasn’t really vampirism.”  The fangs “represent all those elements of the vampire
that people want to touch,” he says, adding philosophically:
“Not all vampires get fangs and not all people who get fangs
are vampires.”  ( Alix Greenwald  is a freelance writer for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Alix Greenwald in New York at 
 Alix.M.Greenwald@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 