-- Fiat's Chrysler Said to Seek Bank Loans Before Stock Offering
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/fiat-s-chrysler-said-to-seek-bank-loans-before-possible-stock-sale-in-2011.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker run by Fiat SpA, has contacted banks about borrowing
money before a possible initial public offering next year, two
people familiar with the effort said.  Chrysler owes the U.S. and Canadian governments $7.4
billion and Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  has said
interest on that debt has kept the automaker from earning a
profit in the first half of this year. Fiat, which he also runs,
can’t have a majority stake until Chrysler has repaid the money
borrowed as part of last year’s bankruptcy and reorganization.  The third-largest U.S. automaker’s board is looking to
refinance U.S. and Canadian government loans as it considers the
proper debt level for the company, Marchionne said last week.
The company approached banks about valuation and loans in recent
months, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the discussions were private.  “What he wants to do clearly is refinance it and take
advantage of the extraordinarily low level of interest rates,”
 Joseph Phillippi , principal of AutoTrends Inc., a consulting
firm based in Short Hills, New Jersey, said in a telephone
interview. “Getting the company’s financial footing in a much
stronger position is clearly going to benefit him.”  Chrysler, based in Auburn Hills, Michigan, has said its
effective interest on the money borrowed from the U.S.
government is as high as 14 percent and as high as 20 percent on
the Canadian loans.  GM’s Rates  General Motors Co.  recently obtained a $5 billion revolving
line of credit on which it will pay 4 percentage points more
than the London interbank offered rate on the credit line,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. Three-month
 Libor , the rate banks charge to lend to each other, has been
less than 0.55 percent all year.  Directors are exploring sources of funding as well as
timing of the IPO, Marchionne said last week. Trading could
begin in the second half of next year, he has said. Marchionne
is also spinning off Fiat’s industrial business.  Shawn Morgan , a Chrysler spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the board’s deliberations.  “They might want to refinance just to make the balance
sheet look better for the IPO,” said  Logan Robinson , former
general counsel for auto-parts maker Delphi Corp. and now a law
professor at the University of Detroit Mercy.  Chrysler Cash  Chrysler already topped its full-year earnings forecast in
the first six months of the year, with an operating profit of
$326 million. Its second-quarter net loss narrowed to $172
million from $197 million in the first three months of the year.
Chrysler ended the second quarter with $7.84 billion in cash. It
plans to report third-quarter results Nov. 8.  Chrysler needs to keep a minimum cash balance of about $3
billion for working capital, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
November 2009 note.  Marchionne said last week during  Fiat ’s third-quarter
financial results presentation that Chrysler needs “better
clarity” about its capital structure, “including refinancing”
the government positions.  “These are the things that are being examined by the board
of directors at Chrysler,” Marchionne said last week.  The maneuvering comes as Marchionne works to increase
Turin, Italy-based  Fiat’s  20 percent ownership stake in the
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based automaker to 35 percent through
accomplishing three milestones set up as part of Chrysler’s
reorganization deal with the U.S. and Canadian governments.  Beyond Nafta  The company is talking with the U.S. Treasury to change
Chrysler’s operating agreement related to the milestone
involving sales outside of the U.S., Canada and Mexico,
Marchionne said last week.  It calls for Chrysler to post cumulative revenue of $1.5
billion outside of North America and execute franchise
agreements allowing at least 90 percent of Fiat’s Latin American
dealers to sell Chrysler vehicles, according to the agreement.  Chrysler, which doesn’t report its international financial
results, has reached the revenue goal,  Monica Bosio , an industry
analyst with Milan-based Banca IMI SpA, said in a note to
investors.  While Fiat has “technically” met that requirement,
regulations governing Fiat’s dealer network in Brazil make the
obligation “fraught with difficulty,” Marchionne said. The
issue should be resolved by the end of next year, he said.  Mark Paustenbach , a spokesman for the Treasury, declined to
comment on the matter.  Three Milestones  Chrysler has said it will begin producing a small Fiat-
derived engine in November, another of the three milestones.  The final goal, assembling a car in the U.S. that gets 40
miles per gallon, also should happen next year, Marchionne said.  Chrysler is investing $600 million in its assembly plant in
Belvidere, Illinois, it said Oct. 28. That’s where the  Dodge 
small car based on Alfa Romeo’s Giulietta will be built,
according to two people familiar with the plans.  Morgan, the Chrysler spokeswoman, declined to comment on
which product will be built at the Belvidere plant.  While Fiat can’t obtain a majority stake until the
governments have been paid in full, it’s allowed to purchase as
much as an additional 16 percent of Chrysler after the principal
amount of the government loans falls to less than $4 billion.  Marchionne said he can’t exercise the option to purchase
additional shares in Chrysler until 2013 unless the agreement is
amended and that discussions on a change “absolutely” could
occur.  In September, Marchionne said Chrysler’s IPO may be
“relatively small” and in “chunks” so the company can
establish a base market for the stock. Chrysler’s financial
performance next year will support an IPO in the second half, he
said.  Chrysler hasn’t been an independent publicly traded company
since 1998, when it merged with the former Daimler-Benz AG. The
companies separated in 2007 with the sale of Chrysler to
Cerberus Capital Management LP, a private equity firm.  Fiat gained control of Chrysler during its U.S. government-
backed bankruptcy restructuring last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Lansing, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  