-- FIFA Says Corruption Probe Won't Affect Voting on 2018, 2022 World Cups
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r
-- 2010-10-29T16:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/fifa-says-corruption-probe-won-t-affect-voting-on-2018-2022-world-cups.html
Soccer’s ruling body says voting for
the hosts of the 2018 and 2022 World Cups won’t be delayed by a
corruption probe into the committee that awards the rights.  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said today the organization
will vote on the award of both events on Dec. 2. The decision
comes after two of the group’s executive committee members were
temporarily suspended as part of the investigation into alleged
promises of the exchange of votes for cash.  “There was never a question of changing anything in the
procedure,” Blatter said today at a news conference in Zurich.
He added that in hindsight choosing the sites for two World Cups
at the same time was “not the right thing to do, but now we’re
in the situation where we have to move on.”  FIFA officials and representatives of the nine bidders for
the two World Cups met in Zurich this week for the first time
since  Amos Adamu  of Nigeria and Teynald Temarii of Tahiti were
suspended following allegations published in the Sunday Times of
London that they offered to trade their votes for money.  FIFA’s ethics committee, which banned the two, will
continue to investigate the claims and announce a final decision
on Nov. 17. Four other officials were also provisionally
suspended after allegedly telling reporters they could
facilitate access to voters.  It’s unclear how many of the 24 executive committee members
will be allowed to have a say on where the World Cup will be
staged. Adamu and Temarii won’t be replaced for the vote if they
remain suspended, Blatter said.  Bidding Nations  England and Russia have individual bids for the 2018 World
Cup, while Spain and Portugal as well as Belgium and the
Netherlands are vying jointly to host that event. The U.S.,
Australia, Qatar, Japan and South Korea are bidding for 2022.  The votes will be done by secret ballot, with a vote on
2018 followed by one on 2022, and Blatter said there is no plan
to open up the process to more public scrutiny by revealing who
supported which bid.  Blatter said the ethics committee will also continue to
look into an alleged pact by Qatar’s committee and
Spain/Portugal’s bid to share votes. Officials of the
Spain/Portugal bid yesterday denied any wrongdoing.  Today, Spain’s Miguel Angel Lopez said England was trying
to influence the voters by making allegations of collusion. He
also questioned how the head of England’s bid knew the U.S. was
dropping out of the race for 2018.  ‘Garbage’  One of the rival bidders is “launching garbage against
Spain and Portugal,” Lopez, who’s running Spain’s bid, said
today on Gestiona Radio in Spain. “What a coincidence that all
of this comes out of England,” referring to an Oct. 17 report
in the Sunday Times that started the investigations.  The newspaper alleged that Adamu and Temarii, who heads the
Oceania confederation, told undercover reporters that their
votes could be exchanged for cash. Both men have vowed to prove
their innocence.  Blatter said the executive committee supported the ethics
committee’s probe and is now waiting “with interest for the
decisions that will be taken.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Verschuur  at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 