-- Financier Sipprelle Masks Wall Street Past in Competitive N.J. House Race
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-10-29T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/financier-sipprelle-masks-wall-street-past-in-competitive-n-j-house-race.html
Scott Sipprelle , a Republican
running against a House Democrat in New Jersey’s 12th
District, says Washington needs business smarts to fix the U.S.
economy. What he doesn’t say is where he got his business
experience: Wall Street.  As Sipprelle, a hedge fund manager and one-time  Morgan
Stanley  managing director, knocked on doors in Trenton this
week, he told voters that his goal in Congress would be creating
jobs for constituents. “I’m a businessman, not a politician,”
he says in a television ad that features construction workers
toting building materials.  Sipprelle’s message -- which mentions neither
“Republican” nor “Wall Street” -- shows signs of connecting.
He closed to within 5 percentage points of six-term
Representative  Rush Holt  in a poll released Oct. 13 by the
 Monmouth University Polling Institute  in West Long Branch, New
Jersey.  Those results helped add the race to those across the
country where a late surge by Republicans threatens to topple
longtime Democratic House members in the Nov. 2 elections.
Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to control the 435-seat
chamber.  Better News  A  Monmouth poll  released yesterday contained better news
for Holt, with Sipprelle slipping 3 points to 43 percent and
Holt remaining stable at 51 percent. The earlier  survey  had a
margin of error of 3.9 percentage points; the figure for the new
poll is 3 points.  “He’s not out of the woods yet,” poll director
 Patrick Murray  said of Holt.  “I don’t think many people expected the challenge to Holt
would be that significant,” said  Brigid Harrison , a political
science professor at New Jersey’s Montclair State University.
“Sipprelle has made hay of the anti-Democratic backlash, the
anti-incumbent wave.”  Holt’s seat had been presumed safe because of his victory
margin in recent elections: He won 63 percent of the vote in
2008 and 66 percent in 2006.  Sipprelle, 47, donated $1 million to his campaign through
Oct. 13, according to federal records. Through that same date,
Holt spent $2 million and Sipprelle $1.3 million, the federal
data show.  Other Race  In the other New Jersey House race that analysts say
Democrats could  lose , Republican and former Philadelphia Eagles
football player  Jon Runyan  leads freshman Representative  John Adler , 48 percent to 43 percent, among likely voters in the
state’s 3rd District, according to an  Oct. 26 poll  by the
Monmouth Institute. A  Sept. 30 Monmouth poll  showed Adler ahead,
42 percent to 39 percent. The most recent poll’s margin of error
was 3.1 percentage points, compared with 4.9 points for the
earlier survey.  Sipprelle’s Wall Street connection is grist for Holt, 62, a
former Princeton University plasma physicist whose district
spans the middle of the state -- from a short stretch of the
Jersey Shore through small towns such as Marlboro and Manalapan
to the state capital of Trenton, on the Pennsylvania border.  “Hasn’t Wall Street hedge fund manager Scott Sipprelle
done enough damage to the middle class?” Holt asks in campaign
ads, literature and stump speeches.  Sipprelle is one of many candidates nationwide who have
Wall Street experience but are playing down ties to the
financial industry.  Long Island Contest  Randy Altschuler , a Republican challenging Democratic
Representative  Tim Bishop  on New York’s Long Island, worked for
 Deutsche Bank AG , investment bank Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette,
and private equity firm  Blackstone Group LP . His campaign
 biography  skips the Wall Street banks and mentions only the two
companies he later founded.  Pat Toomey , a Republican running for the Senate in
Pennsylvania, says in a  television ad  that he has turned his
back on his Wall Street years, during which he traded foreign
currencies at Morgan, Grenfell & Co.  “Way back then, I learned that Wall Street is the last
place that should ever get a bailout,” Toomey says in the spot.  “Wall Street experience is definitely more of a liability
than an asset this year,” said  Erika Fowler , a political
scientist at Connecticut’s Wesleyan University who examines
campaign advertising for the  Wesleyan Media Project . “Very few
candidates with Wall Street experience mention it at all in
their airings; in fact, their opponents are more likely to
mention the connection than they are.”  Sipprelle said in an interview that he wants to offer
solutions, not rehash questions about the bailout initiated in
2008 under Republican President  George W. Bush .  ‘Bad Behavior’  “There’s been a lot of bad behavior on Wall Street, just
like in Washington,” Sipprelle said. “I am not here to defend
the Republican Party. I am here for problem-solving.”  He said he created 15 “high-paying jobs” when he launched
his hedge fund, Copper Arch, and that he’s further spurred job
development by investing in a dozen small businesses in the
Princeton area.  Sipprelle said Holt has been in Congress too long. “He’s
out of touch with the voters in his district,” Sipprelle said.  Montclair State’s Harrison said Holt has to watch how he
plays the Wall Street card.  “I don’t know that you are going to see that automatic
working- and middle-class backlash against Wall Street that you
see” elsewhere, Harrison said. “Many folks in this district
work on Wall Street.”  Holt said in an interview he’s not tarring individuals.  “When I mention Wall Street, it’s not a slam on people who
work there; it’s about private gain with public risk,” he said.
His concern, he said, is “does the American dream belong to all
of us, or to a privileged few?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  