-- Poland Rating May Be Downgraded by Fitch If No Action Is Taken on Deficit
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-10-29T14:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/fitch-warns-of-polish-rating-downgrade-if-no-action-is-taken-on-deficit.html
Poland’s credit rating may be
downgraded if the government doesn’t plan “a substantial and
sustainable” reduction in the budget deficit by 2012, said
Fitch Ratings’ head of operations in the country.  “The problem is the government’s forecasts on the deficit
and debt have been wrong in recent years, which raises our
skepticism over its plans and constitutes a problem for
investors,”  Piotr Kowalski  said in an Oct. 27 interview in
Warsaw. “A substantial and sustainable deficit reduction is
needed to prevent” a downgrade, “and the 2012 budget will be a
key for us,” he said.  Fitch in March affirmed Poland’s long-term debt rating at
A- with a stable outlook. That puts the European Union’s largest
eastern economy between the Czech Republic at A+, and Hungary at
BBB. If nothing “unexpected” happens, Fitch won’t revise the
rating for a year to 18 months, Kowalski said.  Kowalski’s suggestion a ratings downgrade is possible by
2012 is “a very serious warning,”  Lars Christensen , head of
emerging markets research at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said
today by phone. “This makes us less upbeat on the outlook for
Polish fixed-income, both short-term and long-term.”  The Finance Ministry said last week the  general government
deficit  will likely widen beyond the 2010 target of 6.9 percent
of gross domestic product to 7.9 percent. It was 7.2 percent in
2009. The  European Commission  called on Poland to reduce the gap
to the EU limit of 3 percent by 2012. The government said in
August it won’t meet the target before 2013.  Forecasts ‘Wrong’  The 2012 budget will be prepared before parliamentary
elections next year, and local elections will be held next
month. The election calendar doesn’t support the required
overhaul in public finance, Kowalski added.  A temporary jump in the shortfall is “unlikely to change
our bias,” Kowalski said. “We really need to see a credible
fiscal program, determination and the feasibility for its
introduction as a lot will depend on the election outcome.”  Fitch also has doubts about the government’s four-year
fiscal plan, Kowalski said.  The plan estimates public debt will stay below 55 percent
of GDP, the level that triggers automatic spending cuts, through
2013. The general government deficit is forecast to drop to 23.4
billion zloty ($8.2 billion) from 112.3 billion zloty in 2010.
The estimates are based on the assumption that  economic growth 
will be 4.8 percent in 2012 and 4.1 percent in 2013.  ‘Reform is Urgent’  “We aren’t as optimistic about the GDP outlook as the
government is as we see 3.5 percent growth in 2011 and 3.8
percent in 2012,” Kowalski said. “Public-finance reform is
urgent, while it’s difficult to do it counting solely on a
faster economic growth.”  Poland’s central bank, which this week left its main
interest rate unchanged for a 16th month, increased its 2010 GDP
estimate today to 3.5 percent growth from 3.2 percent. The
economy will expand 4.3 percent next year, down from the 4.6
percent predicted in June.  Poland plans to raise value-added taxes by 1 percentage
point to boost revenue, cap the growth in discretionary spending
at 1 percentage point more than inflation and reduce the number
of government jobs by 10 percent.  “The VAT hike is temporary, while the cap will be imposed
on discretionary spending, which concerns only a small fraction
of public expenditure and doesn’t resolve fiscal problems,”
Kowalski said. “A more aggressive reforming of budget spending
is needed. Poland enjoys this year faster-than-expected economic
growth and yet the public debt is rising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  