-- Ford’s Mulally Builds Dreamliners That Take Off: David Pauly
-- B y   D a v i d   P a u l y
-- 2010-10-29T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/ford-s-mulally-builds-dreamliners-that-take-off-commentary-by-david-pauly.html
Alan Mulally ’s hall-of-fame
performance as chief executive officer of  Ford Motor Co.  no doubt
gets as much notice at  Boeing Co. ’s headquarters in Chicago as 
it does at Ford’s Dearborn, Michigan, home.  Ford hired Mulally in 2006, a year after he was passed over
for the top job at Boeing. Instead, the aircraft and defense
company hired  James McNerney , then CEO at 3M Co.  Today, Mulally’s Ford is screeching ahead without resorting
to government bailouts and bankruptcy proceedings as did rivals
 General Motors Co.  and  Chrylser Group LLC . Ford this week
reported record third-quarter profit of $1.7 billion -- the old
high was in 1997 -- and its share of the U.S. light vehicle
market was 15.1 percent, up from 13 percent two years before.  Boeing meantime is best known for its inability to get its
787 Dreamliner off the ground.  Boeing  last year wrote off $3.5
billion in costs related to the 787 and to the also-late 747-8
jumbo jet. McNerney says the 787 will be delivered in the first
quarter of 2011, almost three years past due.  Soon after taking charge at Ford, Mulally mortgaged the
company to borrow $23 billion. That proved to be a stroke of
luck when later, the credit markets seized up leaving GM and
Chrysler desperate for cash and in need of handouts.  Hot Stuff  Under Mulally, 65, Ford  earnings  have been boosted by new
models such as the Fiesta subcompact and the hybrid Fusion. The
CEO has cut costs by jettisoning brands like Volvo and will stop
making Mercury models at year-end.  Mulally has paid off $10.8 billion of Ford’s  debt  this year,
including $3.6 billion to a union health-care trust due today.
The company will still have an automotive debt of about $22.8
billion. This puts Ford at a disadvantage to GM and Chrysler,
whose debts were pared by bankruptcies.  GM is now 61 percent owned by the U.S. government and
Chrysler is controlled by Italian automaker Fiat SpA. Both plan
selling shares to the public.  Ford has earned $6.4 billion so far this year, compared
with a $2.7 billion profit for all of 2009. The company is still
 in the red  for Mulally’s tenure, having lost $30.1 billion in
the three years ended in 2008.  Boeing’s troubles are common among aircraft makers: New
airplanes require years of development. The 787 has been an
extreme example, however, perhaps because the plane is made with
innovative plastic composites for greater fuel efficiency. The
747-8 is the company’s biggest jet yet.  In the Black  Even so, Boeing remains profitable. It earned $837 million,
or $1.12 a share, in the third quarter and said profit for 2010
would be as much as $4 a share, more than double last year’s
number.  McNerney, 61, had to sympathize with Mulally back in 2005.
McNerney had headed General Electric Co.’s jet engine business
but in 2001 lost out to  Jeffrey Immelt  in the race to succeed
 Jack Welch  to run GE.  For all its delivery problems,  Boeing  is still a stronger
company than  Ford . Its bonds are rated investment grade; Ford’s
are still junk. Boeing’s shares are up about 31 percent so far
this year while Ford’s have gained about 41 percent.  Neither Mulally or McNerney has an easy road ahead. And no
one knows whether Mulally would have done better than McNerney
as Boeing CEO. But it’s great fun to speculate.  ( David Pauly  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are his.)  To contact the writer of this column: David Pauly in Fort
Myers, Florida / or  dpauly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  