-- Foreclosure Freeze Cuts Sales, Supply in Hardest-Hit States
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/foreclosure-freeze-cuts-home-sales-supply-in-states-hardest-hit-by-slump.html
U.S. home  foreclosure  sales are
slowing in the states hardest-hit by the real estate crash as
banks review their practices and delay seizures.  In Arizona, California and Nevada, foreclosure auctions on
courthouse steps, known as trustee sales, are down 42 percent
since Sept. 20, according to ForeclosureRadar, a real estate
tracking service in Discovery Bay, California. In Florida’s
Miami-Dade and Broward counties, fewer foreclosures have led to
18 percent declines this month in the number of repossessed
homes listed for sale, said  Ron Shuffield  of Esslinger, Wooten,
Maxwell Inc., a realty firm based in Coral Gables, Florida.  In a real estate market where as many as 7 million homes
face foreclosure or have already been seized by lenders,
according to Zillow Inc., a clog in the pipeline may delay a
housing recovery, which won’t occur until home prices stop
falling. That could in turn postpone a U.S. economic recovery.
Distressed properties accounted for 31 percent of all U.S. home
sales last month, RealtyTrac Inc. said Oct. 14.  “If what’s a hiatus turns into a moratorium, that’s quite
problematic,”  Stan Humphries , chief economist for Zillow, a
Seattle-based real estate data provider, said in an interview.
“It will delay the ultimate bottoming process in the market.”  Attorneys general in all 50 states started probes into
foreclosure practices after court documents surfaced showing
employees signed papers without ensuring their accuracy. Bank of
America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.
temporarily suspended some foreclosure sales or evictions,
pending reviews of their procedures.  Record Seizures  Full national data reflecting the effect of the foreclosure
freeze isn’t yet available. Lenders took over a record 102,134
properties last month, before most of the delays, RealtyTrac, an
Irvine, California-based real estate data provider, reported.  Nevada, Arizona, Florida and California lead the nation in
foreclosure rates, according to RealtyTrac. Florida is the only
one of those states where courts supervise home seizures, the
focus of most of the banks’ reviews.  Bank-owned properties have been pulled off the market in
Florida and re-sales of foreclosed homes have stalled in the
process of closing, according to Shuffield. One in 56 homes in
the state received a foreclosure filing notice in the third
quarter, RealtyTrac data show.  Living in Hotel  Four days before Ted Roberts, 35, was scheduled to close on
his first house -- a $168,000, four-bedroom foreclosed home in
Orlando, Florida --  Bank of America  put the sale on hold. After
his apartment lease ended Sept. 30, Roberts moved his family of
four to one bedroom at the Homestead Studio Suites in Altamonte
Springs, waiting for the sale to close.  Roberts, a federal employee union organizer, could have
gotten his $2,000 in escrow refunded. Instead, he is counting on
the sale closing to avoid losing $1,000 spent on appraisal and
inspection fees. Meanwhile, he’s spent more than $1,000 for the
hotel room, furniture storage and a post office box.  “We’re going to try to ride it out,” he said in a
telephone interview as he drove his sons Kalen, 13, and Torian,
5, to school, another cost of the temporary relocation. “We’d
still like to get a house and obviously a foreclosure is a
better deal. But if we knew this was going to happen, we would
have looked at a non-foreclosure.”  Resubmitting Affidavits  Bank of America froze 102,000 foreclosures nationwide on
Oct. 8 to review its procedures, and has now started the process
of preparing affidavits for resubmission to courts. Affidavits
will be resubmitted over several weeks, as they are completed
through their internal process, according to  Dan Frahm , a
spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank. Those
cases will proceed through the foreclosure process, including
re-sales, he said.  “This review remains in effect and our review is
ongoing,” Frahm said. “We are committed to giving our
customers confidence they are being treated fairly.”  For the Florida foreclosure-judgment hearings that are
canceled this week, banks are almost a month away from
rescheduling them. That’s because a hearing can be scheduled no
earlier than 25 days in advance under the state’s rules for
legal proceedings, said Rick Melendi, a chief deputy court
administrator for the 13th Judicial Circuit in Tampa.  Faulty documentation has scared buyers away from foreclosed
properties because of concerns their titles may be in question,
said Erika Phelan, Roberts’s real estate agent with Buyers
Broker of Florida in Orlando.  ‘No Foreclosures’  “I just took out a buyer who said ‘no foreclosures’ to
avoid the problem,” she said.  Rick Sharga , RealtyTrac’s senior vice president for
marketing, said his company hasn’t seen an “appreciable”
dropoff in foreclosure activity so far this month.  “It could just be that these delays will be delayed a
little bit before they hit the numbers,” Sharga said yesterday
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “Or it could be that
the falloff isn’t going to be nearly as big as people have been
predicting.”  Before the foreclosure freeze, lenders were taking an
increasing amount of time to seize homes as they complied with
requirements to offer loan modifications or sought to avoid the
costs of repossession. Foreclosed borrowers were an average 484
days -- about 16 months -- delinquent on their  mortgage  payments
in September, up from an average of about 11 months in January
2009, according to Lender Processing Services Inc. of
Jacksonville, Florida.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. mortgage servicer, took
an average 18 months to complete foreclosures during the third
quarter, Frahm said.  Off the Market  Of 103 foreclosed homes listed for sale by Michael Saunders
& Co., a broker based in Sarasota, Florida, 35 were pulled off
the market since the foreclosure freeze began, said Tom
Heatherman, communications director for the firm. Another 23
properties assigned to the firm for pre-listing by Freddie Mac,
the mortgage guarantee company under federal conservatorship,
were temporarily held off the market, Heatherman said.  Fannie Mae, another mortgage guarantor under U.S.
conservatorship, has also frozen foreclosure sales in cases with
questionable documents, said  Janis Smith , a spokeswoman for the
Washington-based company.  “Transactions on such properties are on hold until the
servicer can verify that the problem has been rectified,” Smith
said.  Inventory Drop  Foreclosures and short sales, in which lenders agree to
sales at less than the mortgage balance, made up 66 percent of
transactions in Miami-Dade and Broward counties in September,
said Shuffield, the president of Esslinger, Wooten Maxwell.  “The closing pace hasn’t stopped yet,” Shuffield said.
“But the inventory has definitely dropped.’ ”  Western states have had a steep drop in foreclosed homes
headed for resale, said  Sean O’Toole , chief executive of
ForeclosureRadar.  The number of trustee sales in Arizona, California and
Nevada fell to 4,151 the week ending Oct. 22 from 7,142 four
weeks earlier, when the first freeze was announced, O’Toole’s
data show. Bank of America, Ally, and PNC Financial Services
Group Inc., which also suspended some sales, were the only
companies that he found to account for the decline, he said.  In Georgia, which had the seventh-highest U.S. foreclosure
rate according to RealtyTrac, the moratorium killed three
pending sales this month for Becky Loar, president of the Becky
Loar Group LLC, a real estate firm in Snellville, Georgia. One
was a cash sale, which was halted two weeks before closing. The
other two were in early stages of negotiations.  “It’s a nightmare for Realtors,” she said. “If you get a
contract to closing before they back out, you have a miracle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 