-- Fortinet Said to Be Approached by IBM; Shares Soar
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2010-11-01T20:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/fortinet-said-to-have-takeover-approach-from-ibm-talks-at-advanced-stage.html
Fortinet Inc., a maker of network-
security systems that sold shares to the public last year, 
has received a takeover approach from  International 
Business Machines Corp. , said two people with knowledge of 
the situation.  Fortinet is working with Morgan Stanley and exploring its
strategic options, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans aren’t public. Discussions with IBM
may be at an advanced stage, one person said, though a deal
could still unravel. Fortinet rose 6.3 percent in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. A Fortinet representative said there are no
talks with IBM and declined to comment on whether IBM made an
approach or whether any talks were held.  The company, with a market value of $2.27 billion, focuses
on all-in-one systems that keep networks secure, and it caters
to companies ranging from small businesses to large phone
carriers.  IBM  Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  has said he
plans to spend about $20 billion on acquisitions in the next
five years, adding tools to deliver cloud-computing services via
the Internet, and software to help customers analyze data.  “Fortinet’s focus on enterprises, services providers and
government entities maps particularly well against IBM’s
existing client base and should help broaden the company’s
solution set for and appeal in new and emerging markets,” said
Charles King, principal analyst at research firm Pund-IT in
Hayward, California. The company would give “potential suitors
an immediate leadership position in the increasingly business-
critical threat-management market.”  IBM Approach  IBM, the world’s largest provider of computer services,
approached Fortinet six to eight weeks ago, according to one of
the people.  Ed Barbini , a spokesman for IBM, declined to comment, as
did Rick Popko, a spokesman for Fortinet, and Morgan Stanley
spokeswoman  Mary Claire Delaney .  Fortinet, based in Sunnyvale, California, went public a
year ago and its shares have gained 81 percent this year amid
speculation that it might become an acquisition target. It
climbed $1.88 to $31.88 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq trading, after
climbing as much as $6.77.  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, slipped 28 cents to $143.32
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Fortinet almost doubled net income to $14 million in the
third quarter from $7.89 million a year earlier, as sales jumped
29 percent to $85 million. The company raised $156.3 million in
a November 2009 initial public offering, the first by a Silicon
Valley startup in almost two years. The shares were priced at
$12.50 apiece.  Filling Gaps  Fortinet was co-founded in 2000 by  Ken Xie , now chief
executive officer, who previously started and ran NetScreen
Technologies Inc. That company was bought by Juniper Networks
Inc. in 2004 for about  $3 billion .  IBM and other companies, including Hewlett-Packard Co.,
Oracle Corp. and Intel Corp., are using takeovers to add
technology that can help them cater to corporate customers
building data centers to handle a Web-traffic boom.  “IBM’s move is part of a bigger trend where technology
companies are trying to fill the gaps in their portfolios,”
said  Rajesh Ghai , an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in San
Francisco. “Fortinet is growing very fast, and IBM is looking
at high-growth companies also because the return on cash on a
balance sheet is very low.”  IBM has spent more than $20 billion on 100 purchases since
Palmisano took over in 2002, as he shifts IBM’s focus to
software and services from hardware. His largest takeover was
business-management software maker Cognos Inc., for $5 billion.  To build up its data-center technology,  HP  agreed to  spend 
$2.35 billion in September for the money-losing storage maker
3Par Inc., after an 18-day bidding war with Dell Inc. more than
tripled 3Par’s share price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Burrows  in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 