-- French Oil Refineries in First Stages of Starting Operations as Ports Open
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2010-10-29T16:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/french-oil-refineries-in-first-stages-of-start-after-strikes.html
Oil refineries in France are
starting to resume operations following the end of nationwide
strikes and protests at terminals.  Protests at Total SA’s Gonfreville refinery have ended and
“deliveries should resume shortly,”  Michael Crochet-Vourey , a
company spokesman, said today in a phone message.  Exxon Mobil
Corp.  said it’s started pumping crude from Le Havre port, in
northwest France, to its Gravenchon refinery and it will take
several days to return to normal production,  Catherine Brun , a
company spokeswoman, said by phone from Paris.  Strikes at the main port of Marseille in the south of
France ended after 33 days and vessels will begin discharging
tonight, the port authority said in an e-mailed statement. The
protest at the Fos and Lavera oil terminals at Marseille
stranded 38 crude carriers and 20 product tankers.  Protests broke out at France’s ports on Sept. 27 before
escalating over President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s pension reform. The
strikes caused France, the second-biggest refining center in
Europe after Germany, to halt production from at least nine of
11 active facilities in the country and one in Switzerland.  “At Gonfreville, we are also at the very early stages of
restarting refining operations,” Crochet-Vourey said. The
refinery can process 345,000 barrels of oil a day and is
France’s biggest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  France’s port of Le Havre ended strikes at 6 a.m. local
time today, a spokeswoman said by phone, declining to be
identified citing company policy.  LyondellBasell Industries NV said it’s making plans for the
start of the  Berre refinery  in the south of France after the
Marseille port opened. “The timing of the restart will depend
on the schedule of the unloading of the ships,”  David Harpole ,
a company spokesman, said by phone from Houston.  Fuel deliveries from Dunkirk have also resumed, Total’s
Crochet-Vourey said. The Dunkirk plant was idled last year amid
declining demand for fuels such as gasoline and diesel. Strikes
at the refiner’s Donges, Grandpuits and Feyzin plants were due
to finish at midday, he said.  ‘Resuming Operations’  “We are resuming operations progressively,” Exxon’s Brun
said. Rain is hampering the start of the site’s primary crude
distillation unit, she said.  France’s 11 active refineries can process 1.84 million
barrels of oil a day, according to Bloomberg data. Oil companies
began to halt production as early as Oct. 10 because of the
strike actions.  “The refineries in France are gradually starting to come
back,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director at Petromatrix GmbH, a
consultant based in Switzerland, said today in a note. “We
would expect the situation to improve next week if not over the
weekend.”  Workers at Petroplus Holdings AG’s Petit Couronne site
returned to posts and fuel deliveries resumed, a CFDT union
representative said yesterday. Petroplus, Europe’s largest
independent refiner, was forced to start closing its Cressier
refinery in Switzerland because of a lack of crude, the company
said on Oct. 26. The plant relies on oil from France’s Marseille
port via a pipeline.  Waiting for Crude  Ineos AG started to reduce production to “stand-by” mode
at its Lavera refinery and petrochemical site in the south of
France because of limited raw materials, the company said on
Oct. 25. “We’re keeping the assets warm and when we get the
crude, we’ll ramp up production,”  Richard Longden , a U.K.-based
Ineos spokesman, said two days ago.  The following table shows the status of French refineries,
ranked by processing capacity in barrels a day. The Cressier
plant in Switzerland is the only one outside France affected by
the strikes as it gets crude supplies via pipeline from the
southern port of Marseille.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nidaa Bakhsh  in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  