-- French Protests Dwindle as President Sarkozy Is Set to Sign Pension Bill
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-29T15:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/french-protests-dwindle-as-president-sarkozy-is-set-to-sign-pension-bill.html
Protests and strikes over the last
two months in France against the government’s plan to raise the
retirement age are winding down as train services return to
normal and refinery staff go back to work.  Employees at the Channel port of Le Havre voted to resume
working today, and the 33-day-long strike at the main port of
Marseille on the Mediterranean ended. Strikes were called off at
all French refineries, ending two weeks of fuel shortages.  The climbdowns come after five national strikes failed to
push the government of President  Nicolas Sarkozy  into
withdrawing its bill that will raise the minimum retirement age
to 62 from 60. The bill was approved by parliament last week and
is now being vetted by the country’s constitutional court.  “As soon as the constitutional court has given its
approval, I will promulgate the law,” Sarkozy said at a press
conference in Brussels today. “There is only one winner in this
affair, and that’s the French social security system.”  The protests and strikes led to transport disruptions,
flight cancelations and shortages of fuel. Some refineries and
train workers never went back to work after an Oct. 12 national
strike and, at one point, nine out of France’s 11 refineries
were idle and almost half of all service stations were dry.
Demonstrations brought about a million people to the streets.  Exxon Mobil Corp.  started pumping crude from Le Havre port
to its Gravenchon refinery, which will take several days to
return to normal production, said  Catherine Brun , a company
spokeswoman. Only about 15 percent of gas stations are still
dry, the government said.  No Retreat  “We are in the process of seeing the strike movement wind
down,” said  Bernard Vivier , director of the Paris-based
Superior Institute of Work, which trains labor negotiators. “It
was predictable from the start that they wouldn’t make the
government bend. There are some Trotskyite unions that want to
keep going, but the major unions are now seeking an exit.”  Unlike previous presidents who retreated in the face of
labor action, Sarkozy held firm because the reform is
financially necessary, Vivier said.  One out of 10 pensions is funded by government borrowing.
The state pension fund will lose 10.7 billion euros ($14.9
billion) this year, with the shortfall reaching 50 billion euros
in 2020 without a change in policy, according to the Budget
Ministry. The bill also raises the age for retiring with a full
pension to 67 from 65.  “What is important is that the French can count on
retirement, and know that their social security system works,”
Sarkozy said.  Unpopular Sarkozy  Unions have called for one more day of national protests,
on Nov. 6, although not for any further strikes.  The state railroad said intercity high-speed service is
back to normal, after running at about two thirds schedule for
the past two weeks. Paris public transport and airports are also
back to normal.  Sarkozy’s two-month battle with unions and workers has hurt
his popularity, which fell to a record low this month, with less
than a third of those questioned approving his performance, an
 Ifop  survey for the Journal du Dimanche showed Oct. 24. His
approval rating fell to 29 percent, against 32 percent in
September, the lowest since his May 2007 election.  “Some will say Sarkozy won because he has passed a tough
reform,” said  Jerome Fourquet , deputy director at Ifop. “But
for many French people this reform created pain and resentment,
and the protests could be sparked again with any future
reform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 