-- French Bonds Show Sarkozy Prevailing in Pension Fight With Labor, ING Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-29T17:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/french-bonds-show-sarkozy-prevailing-in-pension-fight-with-labor-ing-says.html
The bond market shows investors are
growing increasingly confident that French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has won his battle to raise the nation’s retirement age
in the face of union protests, ING Groep NV said.  The  premium France pays to borrow  for five years over
Germany dropped to 18 basis points today from 26 basis points at
the end of September, according to generic price data compiled
by Bloomberg.  While unions plan further protests for Nov. 6 and France’s
constitutional court needs to rule on the validity of pension
laws, workers at oil refineries are returning to work and
transport disruptions have eased. ING said that indicates
Sarkozy is set to prevail with his plan, which raises the
minimum retirement age to 62 from 60 to bolster growth and
France’s long-term creditworthiness while squeezing the deficit.  “French bonds are not a sell in our view,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-markets debt strategy at ING in
Amsterdam. “The French authorities will be able to push through
necessary reforms.”  France’s 10-year government bonds yield 2.91 percent,
compared with 2.52 percent for German bunds, which are
considered Europe’s benchmark. A basis point is one hundredth of
a percentage point.  A strike at the port of Le Havre ended today, allowing oil
tankers to unload there and supply France’s refineries. Workers
at 9 of France’s 12 refineries have voted to return to work.  Not Unnoticed  The strikes, which began Sept. 7, underlined the difficulty
France faces in pushing through changes. Sarkozy also plans to
run a budget deficit equivalent to 6 percent of gross domestic
product next year, above the 3.5 percent shortfall forecast in
Germany and deficits of 3.9 percent and 4 percent planned for
Italy and the Netherlands, respectively.  “These protests won’t go unnoticed,” Garvey said. “They
highlight the problems France is facing. France is one of a few
economies in the region that will have a large deficit problem
next year.”  Refiner strikes and port blockades caused shortages at
service stations in recent weeks and forced the government to
import gasoline supplies from neighboring countries. Workers at
the port of Marseille remain on strike.  The national railroad said that its intercity high speed
trains returned to normal today. Paris commuter trains and
regional trains are running at about three-quarters service.
Eurostar service to London hasn’t been affected by the strike,
while the Paris metro system and bus services were running
normally today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  