-- GM Gears Up Factories, Balance Sheet for Future Starting Now
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/general-motors-gears-up-plants-balance-sheet-for-future-that-starts-now.html
General Motors Co. , preparing for an
initial public offering, is showing a different spirit than the
failed behemoth that preceded it: investing in small cars,
planning to hire workers and paying obligations early.  GM yesterday said it’s investing in a Michigan factory to
make a small Cadillac and hire 600 workers. Hours later, it said
it paid $2.8 billion to its union retiree health-care trust and
obtained $5 billion in credit that it may not need. After the
IPO, the Detroit-based automaker said it will buy back preferred
shares from the U.S. and put $6 billion in its pension plans.  The rapid-fire moves show how GM will operate under new
Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  after the nation’s largest
automaker purged much of its debt and lowered its fixed costs by
restructuring in bankruptcy.  “What happened over the past 12 months was ordained by the
courts,” said  Maryann Keller , an auto industry consultant with
a self-named firm in Stamford, Connecticut. “The measure of how
good a company GM is starts now. They have to show that they can
operate this business by cleaning the balance sheet and
investing in the business.”  Setting up the  credit line , planning to pay debt and
managing pension obligations all were either expected or prudent
financial management that will help the company as it goes
public, Keller said.  GM has filed its  registration statement  for the offering
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The U.S. shares
will begin trading by Nov. 19, people familiar with the matter
have said.  Repurchase Plan  GM will purchase the Treasury’s 83,898,305 Series A
preferred shares at $25.50 apiece on the first dividend payment
date scheduled to occur after the IPO, the department said.  With the repurchase, taxpayers will have received $9.5
billion in repayments, interest and dividends from GM since the
automaker emerged from bankruptcy in July 2009, the Treasury
said. The department said its total funds invested in GM include
$13.4 billion under the Bush administration and $36.1 billion
under the Obama administration.  The Treasury said the repurchase of the preferred shares
won’t change its stake in GM’s common stock. After the IPO, the
Treasury may hold with less than a 50 percent stake in GM’s
common equity. The company and the U.S. aim to hold an IPO of $8
billion to $10 billion, two people familiar with the plan said
this month.  Cash Confidence  GM’s commitment to reducing the obligations shows that its
cash flow must be improving, said  Joe Phillippi , principal of
AutoTrends Inc., a consulting firm in Short Hills, New Jersey.  GM, which earned  $2.6 billion  in the first half, must
expect to remain profitable amid U.S. new-vehicle sales that are
running about 30 percent slower than the 16.8 million annual
average from 2000 to 2007, he said.  “We’re still not out of the woods with this  car market ,”
Phillippi said. “If they weren’t showing strong cash flow, they
wouldn’t take the risk.”  GM  hasn’t said  when it will report third-quarter results.  The automaker’s 8.375 percent bonds due July 2033, which
were issued by old General Motors Corp. and convert to shares in
the new GM, rose 1.375 cent on the dollar to 36.375 cents
yesterday in New York, according to Trace, the bond-pricing
service of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That was
the highest end-of-day price since May 4.  New Models  The company will keep pushing out new models and investing
in factories as it works to improve its  balance sheet . Since
bankruptcy, GM has put more than $3 billion into its plants,
Akerson said yesterday at a press event at a Cadillac plant in
Lansing, Michigan. The plant will build a small Cadillac
nicknamed the ATS to compete with  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG ’s
3-Series line.  GM also is introducing the small Chevrolet Cruze and the
Chevrolet Volt, which runs on gasoline and electricity.  Chairman  Ed Whitacre , who will leave the board by the end
of the year, had added funds to the product plan and pushed the
company to develop a flagship sedan for Cadillac and to consider
new models such as small pickups and minivans.  GM is reviving its marketing efforts to sell the new
products. In the months leading up to bankruptcy, the automaker
ended its relationship with golfer  Tiger Woods  and pulled
advertising from events such as the Super Bowl and the Academy
Awards. Seoul-based  Hyundai Motor Co.  now is the exclusive
national sponsor of the Oscars,  Joel Ewanick , GM’s vice
president of marketing and a former Hyundai executive, said at a
press event on Oct. 27.  Chevy Campaign  Ewanick started a campaign for Chevrolet with an ad that
ran during baseball’s World Series on Oct. 27 to show the
brand’s historic position in American culture. The campaign
features young women taking babies home from the hospital in
Chevy cars and people loading their dogs into Chevy trucks.  Ewanick said GM will spend slightly more on advertising
next year than the $2.5 billion the company spent in 2008.  Chevrolet  will advertise during the Super Bowl, and
Cadillac is considering marketing during television events like
the Golden Globe awards. GM has also advertised during the MTV
Video Music Awards and Country Music Awards.  “This is where America gathers to watch TV,” Ewanick
said. “It’s the best way to start a courtship with a brand that
some of them have forgotten.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Lansing, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  