-- Genworth Plunges as Profit Misses on Florida Mortgages
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-10-29T20:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/genworth-plunges-as-profit-misses-estimates-on-cost-of-defaulted-mortgages.html
Genworth Financial Inc.,  the mortgage
guarantor and life insurer, posted the biggest decline in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index after third-quarter profit missed
analysts’ estimates on costs tied to bad home loans.  The insurer plunged $1.25, or 9.9 percent, to $11.33 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
largest drop in three months. Richmond, Virginia-based
Genworth’s operating income, which excludes some investment
results, was 6 cents a share in the third quarter, missing by 20
cents the  average estimate  of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The operating loss at the U.S. mortgage-insurance unit
widened to $152 million from $116 million a year earlier as the
company set aside more reserves. Mortgage insurers pay lenders
when homeowners default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs.  “The slow economy and struggling housing market” weighed
on results, particularly in Florida, where the company
strengthened reserves for delinquent loans by $85 million, Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Fraizer  said.  Losses in Florida were fueled by foreclosures on properties
owned by investors. Mortgage servicers have had a better success
rate avoiding default by negotiating new arrangements in cases
where owners occupy the property, Genworth said.  Two servicers managing mortgages at investor-owned
properties in Florida are “having relatively low success rates
in completing modifications,” Fraizer said on a conference call
today. “Therefore more of these loans have proceeded to
foreclosure.”  Credit-Default Swaps  Genworth is little changed this year, compared with the 16
percent advance of the 24-company KBW Insurance Index. Net
income rose to $83 million from $19 million a year earlier,
Genworth said late yesterday.  Credit-default swaps on Genworth’s debt surged to the
highest since Sept. 30. Contracts on Genworth climbed about 54
basis points to 309.2, according to data provider CMA. That
means investors would pay $309,200 annually to protect $10
million of Genworth’s debt for five years. Investors use credit-
default swaps to protect from losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at   dkraut@bloomberg.net  