-- German Retail Sales Unexpectedly Fell in September
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-10-29T07:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/german-retail-sales-unexpectedly-fell-second-straight-month-in-september.html
Retail sales  in Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, unexpectedly dropped for a second straight
month in September.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, fell 2.3
percent from August, when they declined 0.4 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said in an e-mailed statement
today. Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent gain, the median of
seven estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  showed. In the year,
 sales  increased 0.4 percent.  “The figures are chronically volatile,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit in Munich. “Of course the
strong drop was disappointing, but we still expect a good
contribution to growth from consumer demand in the third quarter
overall.”  Germany is relying on domestic spending to prop up economic
growth as demand for its exports wanes with the slowing global
recovery. While  unemployment  fell to an 18-year low in October
and consumer and business confidence have gained, governments
across the 16-nation euro region are cutting spending to rein in
budget deficits, increasing uncertainty over the economic
outlook.  Praktiker AG , Germany’s second-biggest home-improvement
retailer, this week reported that revenue fell 5.7 percent in
its home market in the three months through September, prompting
it to scale back this year’s earnings forecast.  Still, the German Retail Federation last month raised its
outlook for 2010 retail sales, projecting growth of 1.5 percent
after previously forecasting stagnation.  Domestic demand is “increasingly aiding the economy,”
which may grow more than 3 percent this year, the Bundesbank
said on Oct. 18.  Puma AG , Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, this
week raised its 2010 forecasts for sales and profitability after
third-quarter profit rose 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  