-- It's Peanuts, Cracker Jack and Fake Beards as Giants Enjoy 2-0 Series Lead
-- B y   C o r y   J o h n s o n
-- 2010-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/giants-fans-cause-run-on-fake-beards-in-support-of-hairy-hurler.html
As the San Francisco Giants battled
their way to the National League Championship and a place in
baseball’s World Series, fans have devoured merchandise
including caps, T-shirts, bumper stickers and -- fake beards.  The hirsute trend is inspired by All-Star relief pitcher
 Brian Wilson , whose whiskers and legend have been growing since
late summer, inspiring a “Fear the Beard” mantra. Wilson, 28,
saved the game that propelled the Giants to the championship
series against the Texas Rangers, and his 48 saves during the
regular season tied the Giants’ single-season record held by  Rod Beck  since 1993.  “The beard is our big thing,” said Dave Martinez,
director of retail operations for the Giants.  Martinez filled the team-owned Giants Dugout Store with
fake beards and beard masks in September and they immediately
sold out. He then collaborated with  Nike Inc. , which designed a
silhouette of Wilson’s cap and beard and put them on orange T-
shirts with the slogan, “Fear the Beard.” Just in time for
Game 1 this week, the Giants opened a seventh Dugout Store
across the street from their stadium, AT&T Park, to accommodate
the growing demand.  “We’re doing 26 times the business we did last October,”
said Martinez, without providing specific figures.  Fans purchased $2.82 billion of official baseball
merchandise last year, according to the Licensing Letter, an
industry newsletter.  “That’s a lot of tchotchke,” said Publisher Ira Mayer.
“Major League Baseball has gotten really good at this kind of
event-based merchandizing. When a no-hitter is brewing, they’ve
got T-shirts ready to be silkscreened by the seventh inning.”  Rubber Chickens  While the follicular focus may be new, exploiting the
oddities of the team isn’t. Such merchandise sales have helped
make the Giants the ninth most valuable baseball franchise,
worth $483 million, according to  Forbes  magazine.  In 2002, Martinez noticed a fan waving a rubber chicken
each time an opposing pitcher would refuse to pitch to slugger
 Barry Bonds . Martinez added rubber chickens to the Dugout Store
and sold more than 5,000. In 2007, with strikeout artists  Matt Cain  and  Tim Lincecum  on the team, the store sold 3,000 giant
foam Ks, the scorecard symbol for strikeouts. The popularity of
third baseman  Pablo “Kung Fu Panda” Sandoval  triggered sales
of 15,000 panda hats over the last year.  “Facial hair is facial hair,” Wilson said in a televised
interview ahead of the first World Series game Oct. 27. San
Francisco won, 11-7, with Wilson finishing the game. He didn’t
appear in Game 2 last night, which the Giants also won, 9-0. The
team hasn’t won a World Series since moving to San Francisco
from New York in 1958.  Key Chains, Neckties  “The growth in searches for ‘Fear The Beard’ has been
astronomical,” said Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Mountain View,
California-based Google Inc. “It’s certainly the breakout
search term of the month.”  Zazzle Inc., the product-maker backed by venture firm
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, has bought ads tied to Google
searches for the phrase. The Redwood City, California-based
company, which lets users design their own key chains, neckties
and coffee mugs, said the slogan has inspired 2,201 items.  Zazzle’s staff is working overtime to meet demand, said
Mike Karns, Zazzle’s director of marketing.  “We’re big Giants fans here,” he said. Even so, “We’re
not rooting for a Giants sweep. With all these orders, we’d love
it to go to a Game 7.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cory Johnson at 
 cjohnson114@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  