-- Coffee Supply May Tighten on Indian Delay, Lower Vietnam Output
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-10-29T04:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/global-coffee-supply-may-tighten-on-indian-delays-lower-vietnamese-output.html
Global coffee supplies may tighten
after an Indian exporters’ group forecast a delay in harvesting
because of extended rains and an industry association in  Vietnam 
said that production may decline, potentially boosting prices.  India’s harvest may begin from the middle of November,
about three weeks later than normal, Ramesh Rajah, president of
the Coffee Exporters Association of  India , said in an interview.
Separately, Nguyen Van An, a board member of the Vietnam Coffee
and Cocoa Association, said today by phone that output may drop
as much as 3 percent to 1.1 million metric tons in 2010-2011.  The forecasts may extend rallies in arabica, which jumped
to a 13-year high this week, and robusta, at the highest in more
than two years. Prices have jumped on concerns that unfavorable
weather in Latin America and Vietnam, and delays at  Brazil ’s
Santos Port are curbing supplies. Vietnam is the biggest robusta
producer and India is  Asia ’s third-largest grower.  “Coffee prices may continue to climb until weather
concerns ease in Brazil and Vietnam,” said Rajah, who correctly
predicted a 10 percent gain in prices on Aug. 24. India’s
“harvest has got delayed but the good news is that the crop is
in excellent condition,” he said yesterday from Bangalore.  Arabica reached $2.046 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York  on Oct. 26, the highest price since August 1997, and the
December-delivery contract ended yesterday at $1.966. Robusta
advanced to $1,975 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in  London 
yesterday, the highest level since Oct. 6, 2008.  Indian Harvest  India’s total coffee production this year may be a record
and match a forecast of 308,000 tons from the state-run Coffee
Board of India, Rajah said. The harvest of robusta, used in
instant coffees, may be more than the 208,500 tons estimated by
the board, he said yesterday from Bangalore.  The monsoon has yet to withdraw from the Southern Indian
states of Karnataka and Kerala, which account for more than 90
percent of the nation’s production, according to the weather
bureau. The June-to-September rainy season, which brings more
than 70 percent of India’s annual precipitation, is still active
over the region, according to the  state forecaster .  In Vietnam, the outlook for the year from Oct. 1 from the
association’s An is less than the median forecast harvest of 1.2
million tons from a Bloomberg News survey of 10 growers,
analysts and traders conducted earlier this month. Officials in
Vietnam’s three largest growing provinces --  Dak Lak , Lam Dong
and Gia Lai -- also forecast production gains.  Smaller Beans  Rainfall in Vietnam’s Central Highlands, the nation’s main
coffee-growing area, was about 30 percent less this year than in
previous years, An said. “It hurt the development of coffee
cherries, causing the beans to have a smaller size,” An said
from Vicofa, as the association is known.  Output of the next crop in Brazil, the world’s biggest
overall producer, may drop to 36 million, 60-kilogram bags, the
lowest in four years, after a drought hindered flowering, the
South American nation’s coffee council said on Oct. 22.  Coffee shipments from producers will decline for a second
year in 2010 from last year’s estimated 95.5 million bags and
2008’s 97.7 million bags, according to the  International Coffee
Organization .  “Roasters have waited long on the sidelines for prices to
cool and with the winter approaching they may begin to cover
needs,” Rajah said. Arabica may gain to $2.13 a pound, while
robusta may climb to $2,150 a ton in a few weeks, Rajah said.  “Global coffee prices will be good this year, so we expect
to earn $1.8 billion to $2 billion in export turnover,” said An
at Vicofa, a non-governmental organization that represents
producers and traders and helps to shape government policy.  --Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen. Editors: Jake Lloyd-Smith, Matt Oakley  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  