-- Gold Will Outlive Dollar Once Slaughter Comes: John Hathaway
-- B y   J o h n   H a t h a w a y
-- 2010-10-29T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/gold-will-outlive-dollar-once-slaughter-comes-commentary-by-john-hathaway.html
The world’s monetary system is in
the process of melting down. We have entered the endgame for the
dollar as the dominant reserve currency, but most investors and
policy makers are unaware of the implications.  The only questions are how long the denouement of the
dollar reserve system will last, and how much more damage will
be inflicted by new rounds of quantitative easing or more
radical monetary measures to prop up the system.  Whether prolonged or sudden, the transition to a stable
monetary system will become possible only when the shortcomings
of the status quo become unbearable. Such a transition is, by
definition, nonlinear. So central-bank soothsaying based on the
extrapolation of historical data and the repetition of
conventional wisdom offers no guidance on what lies ahead.  It’s amazing that there is no intelligent discourse among
policy leaders on the subject of monetary rot and its
implications for the future economic and political landscape.
Until there is fundamental monetary reform on an international
scale, most economic forecasts aren’t worth the paper on which
they are written.  Telltale signs of future trouble aren’t hard to spot. Only
a few months ago, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and a
chorus of other high-ranking Fed officials were talking about
exit strategies from the U.S. central bank’s bloated balance
sheet and the financial system’s unprecedented excess liquidity.
Now, those same officials are talking about pumping more money
into the system to stimulate growth.  Risky Targets  And they’re not alone: Six months ago, the chief economist
of the International Monetary Fund,  Olivier Blanchard , suggested
that raising inflation targets to 4 percent from 2 percent
wouldn’t be too risky.  This sort of talk must grate on the nerves of our trading
partners, China, India, Russia and others, who have accumulated
pyramids of non-yielding Treasury debt. No haven there. Return-
free risk may be a better way to put it. And bickering among
central bankers over currency manipulation and rising trade
tensions doesn’t exactly reinforce one’s confidence in a
scenario of sustained economic growth and a return to
prosperity.  The prospects for an orderly unwinding of the extreme
posture of global monetary policy are zero. Bernanke,  Jean- Claude Trichet  and  Mervyn King , his counterparts in Europe and
the U.K. respectively, are huddling en masse upon the most
precarious perch in the history of monetary affairs. These
alleged guardians of monetary stability, in their attempts to
shore up the system, have simply created the incinerator for
paper money. We are past the point of no return. Quantitative
easing may well become a way of life.  No Freak Occurrence  The consensus investment view seems to be that the credit
crisis of 2008 was a freak occurrence, unlikely to repeat. That
is wishful thinking. Monetary policy has painted itself into a
corner. Based on our present course, there will be more bubbles
and more meltdowns.  Financial markets and institutions sense trouble, as
reflected in the flight to supposedly safe assets such as
Treasuries and corporate-debt instruments with paltry yields, as
well as the reluctance to lend by commercial banks. We are stuck
in an epic liquidity trap. The irony is, if global central banks
succeed in creating inflation, the value of these safe assets
will be destroyed. It is a slaughter waiting to happen.  In the pedantic mentality of central bankers, their
playbook creates just the right amount of inflation. As
inflation accelerates, consumers will spend to get rid of their
dollars of diminishing value and spur the economy. Once
consumers start spending, it will be time to raise interest
rates because a solid foundation for prosperity will have been
established, they say.  Slender Thread  But whatever the playbook promises, the capacity of
financial markets to overshoot can’t be overestimated. The
belief among policy makers and financial markets in the
possibility of this sort of fine-tuning is preposterous, but it
is the slender thread on which remaining investment and business
confidence rests.  The breakdown of the monetary system will be chaotic. When
inflation commences, it will be highly disruptive. The damage to
fixed-income assets will seem instantaneous. Foreign-exchange
markets will become dysfunctional. The economy will become even
more fragile and unpredictable.  Gold is an imperfect, but comparatively reliable, market
gauge for the extent of current and future monetary destruction.
The recent acceleration in the dollar price of the metal to
$1,381, a record high in nominal terms, coincided with talk of a
new round of quantitative easing and highly visible discord
among major nations on trade and currency-valuation issues.  Naysayers’ Bubble  Naysayers point to gold’s price and see a bubble, without
understanding that the only acceleration that is taking place is
in the rate of decline of paper currency. The Fed is organizing
an attack on the dollar’s value, believing that this is the most
expedient way to defuse deflationary market forces. The man in
the street is unaware, a perfect setup. Inflation can only be
successful when the public doesn’t see it coming.  The sudden torrent of commentary on gold isn’t the sign of
a bubble. Anti-gold pundits provide a great service to those who
grasp this historical moment: They facilitate the advantageous
positioning of the one asset most likely to be left standing
when the dust settles.  ( John Hathaway  is a managing director of Tocqueville Asset
Management LP in New York. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 John Hathaway  at  JHathaway@Tocqueville.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  