-- Goldman Says Fed Purchases May Include 30-Year Bonds
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-29T13:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/goldman-sachs-says-fed-asset-purchases-are-likely-to-include-30-year-bonds.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., one of the
18 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve , said a
resumption of asset purchases by policy makers next week would
likely include 30-year Treasury bonds.  Traders have speculated that the Fed would focus on buying  U.S. government debt  maturing in 10 years and less as part of a
policy known as quantitative easing to sustain the economic
recovery by keeping borrowing costs low. Ten-year Treasury notes
serve as a benchmark for loans ranging from corporate debt to
mortgages. Policy makers conclude their two-day meeting Nov. 3.  The Fed purchased $30.3 billion of Treasuries in the 12- to
30-year maturity range as part of its $300 billion in total
Treasury purchases last year, according Fed data tracked by
Barclays Plc. The difference in yield on 10- and 30-year
securities reached a record 1.46 percentage points on Oct. 15 on
concern the flooding of cash into financial markets by the Fed
will spur inflation.  “It’s the first time we’re hearing someone voice the
opinion publicly that the Fed’s going to have to do something
different in terms of QE,” said Gary Pollack, who helps oversee
$12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank
AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in  New York . “Goldman’s a
respected voice on the Street and is saying the Fed’s going to
have to go out to 30s to do something.”  Preferred Inflation Measure  Yields on 30-year bonds fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 4.03 percent at 9:39 a.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data.  A report showing the Fed’s preferred inflation measure
added to expectations that policy makers will buy longer-term
assets. The price gauge, which is tied to  consumer spending  and
strips out food and energy costs, climbed at a 0.8 percent
annual pace in the third quarter, less than the 1 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and down from a 1 percent
increase the prior quarter, Commerce Department figures showed.  Buying 30-year bonds may cause the difference in yield
between the securities and 10-year debt to narrow,Francesco Garzarelli, a London-based analyst, wrote in an e-mailed note
today. The difference in yields was 1.40 percentage points
today, compared with a five-year average of 0.52 point,
according to Bloomberg data.  Reinvestment Program  The Fed has purchased longer-term Treasuries, including
those with maturities of almost 30 years, in part of its current
program of reinvesting proceeds of maturing mortgage holdings
into Treasuries. Policy makers have bought $2.4 billion of bonds
in the 20- to 30-year maturity range in the reinvestment program
so far, according to Fed data tracked by Barclays. The Fed held
three operations since the program began in August for
Treasuries that fall in the maturity range of February 2021 to
August 2040.  “Our view is that the Fed is likely to continue
concentrating its purchases in the belly of the curve,”
said Michael Pond, co-head of U.S. rates strategy in New York at
primary dealer Barclays. “But if the program is sizable enough,
it will be forced to make a decision between spreading purchases
more along the curve or harming liquidity in certain sectors.”  The Fed may broaden its purchases this time as the likely
size of this new quantitative easing program may cause the
central bank to reach its internal guidelines of how much it can
hold of any given issue, Pond said.  The Fed limits itself to owning no more than 35 percent of
any specific security it holds in its System Open Market
Account, or SOMA. The Fed could increase this self-imposed limit
to approximately 50 percent, said Pond.  The central bank makes the securities in its portfolio
available to dealers through its daily securities lending
operation, making it unlikely that Fed purchases alone would
lead to an acute shortage of a given issue.  Estimates for the ultimate size of an asset-purchase
program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
Global Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs. Economists at
both firms agree the Fed will likely start by announcing $500
billion next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  