-- Google's Wind-Power Grid Would Benefit From Disputed U.S. Rule
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-10-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/google-s-undersea-wind-power-grid-would-benefit-from-disputed-u-s-rule.html
A U.S. proposal that may improve
prospects for a $5 billion undersea wind-power grid backed by
 Google Inc.  is sparking a fight between utilities and companies
developing renewable energy.  The regulation drafted by the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  is aimed at spreading costs for transporting
alternative power. Utilities such as  Southern Co.  say that may
be a bad deal for their customers. The head of the regulatory
agency says it would help make wind and solar energy competitive
with coal and natural gas.  “Ultimately we have to get transmission built to move
those clean-energy resources to the people,” FERC Chairman  Jon Wellinghoff  said in a phone interview. Energy from the wind and
sun must be transported from the waters of the Atlantic Ocean,
the plains of the Dakotas and the deserts of the Southwest to
cities and suburbs where the power is needed, he said.  FERC determines whether transmission pricing plans
submitted by regional grid operators and utilities are “just
and reasonable.” Its proposed rule would mandate that the plans
“account for transmission needs driven by public-policy
requirements” -- including standards calling for the use of
more renewable energy -- alongside cost and reliability.  Atlantic Grid Development, the Google-backed company that
this month proposed to build a grid connecting offshore wind
turbines, and  Iberdrola SA , a Spanish developer of wind power,
are among supporters of the proposal.  Utilities led by Southern of Atlanta and  Public Service
Enterprise Group  of Newark, New Jersey, say the rule may force
their customers to pay for long, expensive power lines when
better local options are available.  ‘Socializing’ Costs  FERC’s rule may lead to “socializing” transmission costs,
said Sue Sheridan, president and general counsel for the
utility-sponsored Coalition for Fair Transmission Pricing in
Washington.  “We stand for the cheapest renewable resources,” she said
in an interview.  More than 200 companies , interest groups and policy makers
responded to FERC’s proposal. The agency will issue a final rule
next year, Wellinghoff said.  The Energy Department has estimated that 20 percent of the
electricity consumed in the Eastern Interconnection, a power
grid running from the foot of the Rocky Mountains in the west to
the Atlantic coast in the east, may come from wind by 2024 if
$65 billion to $93 billion of new power lines were built.  Renewable Standards  President  Barack Obama  has called for legislation requiring
that 25 percent of U.S. power come from renewable-energy sources
by 2025, a proposal that remains stalled in Congress along with
efforts to cap carbon emissions linked to global warming.
Twenty-nine states and the District of Columbia already have
their own renewable-energy standards, according to the Database
of State Incentives for Renewables and Efficiency funded by the
U.S. Energy Department.  The offshore grid Google is developing with Trans-Elect
Development Co., Good Energies Inc., and Tokyo-based  Marubeni
Corp . in the Atlantic Ocean from Virginia to New Jersey would
deliver power to the  PJM Interconnection , a market that includes
13 eastern states and the District of Columbia.  “If you can take the transmission costs and allocate them
to a broader group of beneficiaries it reduces the costs and
promotes the offshore-wind industry,” said  Elias Farrah , an
attorney in Washington with Dewey & LeBoeuf and counsel to the
venture backed by Mountain View, California-based Google.  Such a project may improve reliability, enable customers in
the Northeast to buy cheaper power from the South and encourage
development of cleaner offshore wind generation, Wellinghoff
said.  Putting in ‘Backbone’  “By putting in this backbone, you basically help to
bolster support for the system,” he said.  Utilities that oppose FERC’s proposal want to keep
competing power generators away from their local markets by
blocking transmission development, according to Rob Gramlich,
senior vice president for public policy at the  American Wind
Energy Association , a Washington-based trade group whose members
include Iberdrola.  Unless costs are spread over a wider area than some grid
planners now require, green resources will remain untapped,
Melissa Seymour, U.S. director of regional markets and
regulation for Iberdrola of Bilbao, Spain, said in a phone
interview.  Midwest’s Grid  The conflicts are already playing out in central states.
The Midwest’s  grid  operator originally ascribed the costs of a
240-mile (386-kilometer) power line from Brookings County, South
Dakota, to Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota, to only part of
the grid it oversees.  That plan would have raised the price of energy from
Iberdrola’s proposed wind farms by 25 percent above market
prices, making it unlikely the company would find customers to
pay for the power, according to Seymour. “We couldn’t fund
it,” she said.  Planners have since submitted a proposal to FERC to spread
costs over the 13-state market run by the Midwest agency, known
as the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator. The
plan is under review.  Michigan accounts for 20 percent of the Midwestern market
so its consumers would pay a fifth of the $16 billion in
transmission projects planned in the region under the revised
plan even though they would get little benefit from the
projects, Steven Transeth, a former state utility regulator,
said in a phone interview.  While Michigan has a renewable-energy mandate, only power
generated within state borders counts toward the requirement.  “For Michigan, it’s going to make it harder for us to
attract businesses and keep the ones we have,” Transeth said.
“We need to keep energy affordable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 