-- Government Sticks to Housing Plan After Mayor Johnson's `Kosovo' Remarks
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-29T14:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/government-sticks-to-housing-plan-after-mayor-johnson-s-kosovo-remarks.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
refused to back down on planned reductions in housing benefits
after comments from London Mayor  Boris Johnson  that such
measures risked leading to “Kosovo-style social cleansing.”  The mayor expressed concern yesterday about the possible
effects on the capital of the plans by Cameron, a fellow member
of the Conservative Party, to cap social-housing subsidies, a
step that may force people on low incomes to move to areas where
rents are cheaper.  Johnson, who will run again for mayor in 2012, said he is
not prepared to accept poorer families moving out as a result of
the government’s planned changes. “What we will not see and we
will not accept is any kind of Kosovo-style social cleansing of
London,” the mayor told BBC London radio.  “We will pay up to 20,000 pounds ($32,000) a year for
someone’s housing benefit; we just won’t pay beyond that,”
Cameron told a news conference in Brussels today, declining to
comment directly on Johnson’s remarks. “I think people
listening at home will say ‘hold on a second -- 20,000 pounds in
rent; that is more than I could dream of paying; a better home
than I could possibly afford to have -- and I don’t see why my
taxes should go to housing-benefit levels above that’.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said Oct. 4 that
total  benefit payments  to any household will be capped at the
median take-home pay for working households of about 500 pounds
a week, starting in 2013. The welfare bill is being slashed as
the government attempts to narrow its record budget deficit.  Homeless Forecasts  London Councils , the umbrella group for London’s 33 local
authorities, estimates that as many as 82,000 households in the
capital will become homeless as a result of the cuts. The
government predicts the cap will affect 21,000 benefit
claimants, 17,000 of whom are in London.  “I think even in London you are now seeing quite a debate
opening up about how many homes are available,” Cameron said.
“I don’t think it will be necessary for anybody to go without a
home if we are prepared to pay up to 20,000 pounds.”  Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  called on concerned
lawmakers from Cameron’s coalition of Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats to join the opposition in voting against the changes
in the House of Commons next month.  ‘That Costs More’  “Why is it fair for someone who has been doing the right
thing, who’s been looking for work for a year, to lose 10
percent of the help with their rent?” Miliband told Labour’s
Scottish conference in Oban today, according to the text of his
speech. “Don’t they get it? If you drive up homelessness,
families end up in bed and breakfasts, and that costs more.”  The Liberal Democrat deputy leader,  Simon Hughes , who’s not
a minister, told Channel 4 television on Oct. 24 that many of
his colleagues oppose plans to reduce the subsidies. The
Conservatives depend on the Liberal Democrats for their majority
in the House of Commons.  Liberal Democrat Employment Minister  Ed Davey , though,
called Johnson’s comments “appalling, misleading and
scaremongering.” Asked on BBC television’s “Question Time”
program last night if the mayor should withdraw his remarks,
Davey replied “I think he should.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in Brussels at  tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 