-- Greek Bonds Slump on Budget Concern; Bunds Rise on Safety Bid
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-29T15:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/greek-bonds-slump-on-renewed-budgetary-concern-bunds-rise-on-safety-bid.html
Greek bonds fell, leading weekly
declines by securities from Europe’s periphery, as concern the
nation will struggle to meet deficit targets pushed the extra
yield over German securities to the highest in a month.  German bunds gained on concern a proposed European Union
measure to limit debt crises may penalize investors, encouraging
demand for safer assets. Portuguese bonds capped a weekly loss
as a survey showed the opposition Social Democrats increased
their poll lead over Prime Minister  Jose Socrates ’ Socialists.  “The periphery remains vulnerable,” said  Patrick Jacq , a
senior fixed-income strategist at BNP Paribas SA in Paris.
“Greece is still suffering.”  The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond rose 19 basis points, or
0.19 percentage point, to 10.68 percent at 4:01 p.m. in London.
The extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold the
securities instead of benchmark German bonds was at 809 basis
points, the widest level since Sept. 30 based on closing prices.
The spread hadn’t been above 800 basis points since Oct. 1.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  won European Union backing
for a rewrite of EU treaties to create a permanent debt-crisis
mechanism by 2013 to prevent a repeat of the Greece-led shock
that jolted the euro.  Merkel’s plan foresees an extension of debt maturities,
suspension of interest payments and a waiver on creditors’
claims, the Handelsblatt newspaper reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified government official.  ‘Default Regulation’  Such a proposal might be seen as “a step toward government
default regulation,” said  Christoph Kind , who helps invest
about $20 billion as head of asset allocation at Frankfurt Trust
in Frankfurt. “The market is pricing in the danger that this is
going to be realized at some point.”  Greece is likely to default within the next three years
because budget-cutting measures won’t be enough to reduce the
nation’s debt burden, Pacific Investment Management Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Mohamed A. El-Erian  said at a New York
conference this week.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield rose one basis point to 6.03
percent. The spread over similar German securities was 342 basis
points after earlier climbing above 350 basis points, the widest
since Oct. 14.  A survey published today by Portugal’s Catholic University
indicated 40 percent backing from voters for the Social
Democratic Party, 3 percentage points higher than in a June
survey, Diario de Noticias reported today. The Socialists had 26
percent support, 8 percentage points less than in the previous
poll, according to Diario.  Budget Proposals  The Social Democrats will consider any proposals the
government may still make regarding its 2011 budget, leader
 Pedro Passos Coelho  said in a conference today. Prime Minister
Jose Socrates said yesterday the government would make an effort
to reach an agreement.  “There are a lot of event risks coming up, with the
Portuguese budget and the Greek local elections,” said  Orlando Green , assistant director of capital-markets strategy at Credit
Agricole SA in London. “In terms of the EU, this brings
something else into the ball game.”  The German 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark security,
gained today, pushing the yield down four basis points to 2.53
percent. The yield was still headed for its first back-to-back
monthly gains since May 2009. Bunds were supported by
speculation that the Federal Reserve will resume buying debt.  Peripheral Nations  Debt of the peripheral nations gained earlier this month as
optimism that the region’s recovery would be sustained eased
concern that the nations would default.  German bonds have lost 1.3 percent this month, compared
with a 0.5 percent decrease for U.S. Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Portugal’s securities gained 2.7
percent, while those of Greece returned 0.7 percent.  Euro-area countries sold 70 billion euros ($97 billion) of
bonds in October, meaning they have covered 90 percent of their
funding needs for the year, according to UniCredit SpA.  The new supply compared with 90 billion euros in September
and pushed total sales for the year so far to 870 billion euros,
 Chiara Cremonesi , a market strategist at UniCredit in London,
wrote in a client note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  