-- Microsoft, Intel, TI Gain on Company Demand While Consumers Lag
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-10-29T21:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/microsoft-intel-ti-gain-on-company-demand-while-consumers-lag.html
Microsoft Corp.  followed Intel Corp.
and Texas Instruments Inc. in reporting a tradeoff likely to
weigh on technology sales through year’s end: While corporate
customers are spending more, consumers are keeping wallets shut.  Microsoft yesterday posted first-quarter results that were
buoyed by corporate demand, even as households held off on
personal-computer purchases. Quarterly earnings by Texas
Instruments and Intel this month also reflected lackluster
buying by consumers.  Corporations that cut spending during the recession are now
upgrading aging systems and stepping up orders for computers and
software. By contrast, households concerned about joblessness
and home prices are capping companies’ sales growth. That poses
a challenge to an industry increasingly dependent on consumers,
who may represent 30 percent of total technology spending in the
next few years, up from about 20 percent now, according to
researchers at IDC in Framingham, Massachusetts.  “The consumer is kind of damaged for a while,” said  Pat Becker Jr ., principal at  Becker Capital Management  in Portland,
Oregon, which oversees about $2.3 billion in assets, including
1.5 million Microsoft shares. “On the business side, the
corporate balance sheet is as good as we’ve ever seen there. But
you have two different balance sheets.”  ‘Strong’ Business Demand  Microsoft yesterday said net income rose 51 percent to $5.41
billion, or 62 cents a share, compared with the 55 cents
projected by  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg. The 25 percent
sales increase, to $16.2 billion, was fueled by demand for
Office 2010, corporate versions of Windows 7 and software for
running the server computers that anchor corporate networks.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, gained 39 cents,
or 1.5 percent, to $26.67 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The stock has dropped 13 percent this year.  Consumer PC shipments grew less than 10 percent, while
computers for businesses rose in the mid-teens, General Manager
 Bill Koefoed  said on a conference call. Microsoft gets about 70
percent of revenue from businesses and the rest from consumers,
according to  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG in San Francisco.  “Business demand was very strong and that was a big driver
of Office and Server sales,” said Chief Financial Officer  Peter Klein  said in an interview. “Consumer PC growth was a little
less than people had predicted three months ago.”  Intel, Texas Instruments  At Intel, the world’s largest maker of computer chips, and
 Texas Instruments , which ranks No. 2 in the U.S., the split
between consumers and companies was more pronounced.  Intel, based in Santa Clara, California, lamented slumping
demand among consumers in the U.S. and Europe, even as corporate
buying helped the company predict fourth-quarter sales that may
exceed analysts’ estimates.  Texas Instruments , based in Dallas,
forecast smaller fourth-quarter sales than some analysts had
estimated, citing a slowdown in consumer-electronics spending.  Texas Instruments Chief Executive Officer  Rich Templeton 
said consumer demand is cooling, hurting sales of computers and
televisions, while industrial demand remains “especially
strong.”  The round of growth fueled by the upgrading of dated
machinery could peter out in the first half of next year if
concerns over growth persist, said  Stephen Minton , an  analyst  at
IDC.  ‘Pretty Nervous’  “If the economy is still struggling three months from now,
companies will be pretty quick to put spending on hold,” he
said. “Companies are still pretty nervous.”  Case in point: International Business Machines Corp., the
world’s largest computer-services provider, said services
signings fell 7 percent to $11 billion in the third quarter, the
third straight quarterly drop in new contracts.  The increasing importance of consumers to the computer
industry is being felt by chipmakers, whose rebound from the
recession last year was partly fueled by demand for laptops.  The industry is on course to grow 18 percent from last year
on an annual basis, according to Intel CEO  Paul Otellini . Yet,
this year’s holiday shopping surge may fall short. Intel, whose
chips run more than 80 percent of the world’s PCs, usually gets
an 8 percent increase in fourth-quarter revenue from the
previous three months amid year-end holiday shopping.  Intel says sales will grow at most 6.3 percent this quarter
from the third. At the low end of Intel’s forecast, revenue will
decline.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. , Intel’s closest rival in
processors, predicted sales will be little changed this quarter.  Apple as Exception  U.S. consumers will spend about 2 percent less on gifts
this holiday season as shoppers remain concerned about a weak
economy, the  Consumer Electronics Association  said earlier this
month, citing an annual survey.  The average consumer will spend $750 on holiday gifts, the
industry trade group said Oct. 19. A third of the survey’s
respondents said they planned to reduce spending for reasons
related to unemployment, the association said.  Some technology companies are still benefiting from
consumer spending. Apple Inc. posted record earnings last
quarter after selling 14.1 million iPhones, more than analysts
predicted. Samsung Electronics Co., the biggest maker of
televisions and other consumer electronics, reported a 17
percent profit increase, also a record.  Many households are putting off PC purchases and opting
instead for tablets, such as Apple’s iPad.  Happy Holidays?  “This holiday season is going to be absolutely fantastic”
for Apple, said  Michael Obuchowski , chief investment officer of
First Empire Asset Management, which holds Apple shares. “They
were able to refresh their entire product line during the
recession. All of their devices are new designs.”  Outside the technology world, retail spending on clothes
and other goods may be starting to recover. Analysts expect
shares of Macy’s Inc., Target Corp., Nordstrom Inc. and Kohl’s
Corp. to jump over the next year. Economists lifted estimates
for consumer purchases in the third quarter after retail sales
climbed more than forecast in September.  “The consumer market is growing, but at a slower pace than
the business sector,”  Gregory Spierkel , chief executive officer
of Ingram Micro Inc., the biggest distributor of computer
equipment. “That was not the story last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  