-- India Seeks Ban on Iron-Ore Shipments, Minister Says
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-10-29T11:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/india-may-bar-iron-ore-exports-to-guarantee-supplies-for-local-steelmakers.html
India, the world’s third-largest
iron-ore exporter, should ban shipments overseas to ensure that
local steelmakers have adequate supplies of the raw material,
according to Steel Minister  Virbhadra Singh .  The country will need increased quantities of iron ore to
meet domestic demand from steel producers, so there is a need
for a ban, Singh said at a seminar New Delhi today. Singh had
said in May India will consider banning exports “if needed.”  An end to shipments from India would increase global
competition for supplies, potentially boosting prices of the raw
material from Australia and Brazil, the two biggest suppliers.
China is the world’s largest steelmaker, accounting for 43
percent of output last month, while  BHP Billiton Ltd. , Rio Tinto
Group and Vale SA are the top three iron-ore suppliers.  “Limiting exports is inevitable because rapid economic
development in India will demand more iron ore to feed its steel
mills,”  Xu Xiangchun , chief analyst at Mysteel Research
Institute, said from Beijing. “China has to look for new
resources, such as Africa, as alternatives to Indian ore.”  Karnataka Ban  India’s Karnataka state, the country’s second-biggest
producer of iron ore, banned exports in July, prompting appeals
from mining companies. The ban may cut India’s exports by 38
percent to 66 million tons this year, according to the
 Federation of Indian Mineral Industries , a trade body that
monitors Indian iron ore exports.  “The ban has already impacted output in Karnataka as
miners have either stopped or are producing lesser quantities,”
federation Director David Pichamuthu said. “We have approached
the court against the state’s decision and are expecting a
verdict next week.”  India’s steel production is expected to increase to 120
million tons by 2012, Singh said in August. India’s current
output is estimated at about 72 million tons.  The global iron-ore market will likely remain “tight” in
the near future because of a lack of new supply and increasing
demand from China, Brazil’s Vale said this week. India “could
come to contribute in a relevant way to the heating up of the
iron-ore market in the medium term,” the company said.  India’s urbanization rate is 30 percent compared with
China’s 47 percent, its industry is small in relative terms and
the government plans to boost infrastructure spending, Vale
said.  Asia’s third-largest economy will increase steel usage 10
percent in the year to March 31, compared with an April 6
forecast for a 9 percent rise, India’s Steel Ministry said on
Sept. 6. Consumption climbed 9.7 percent to 24.8 million tons
between April and August, from 22.6 million tons a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anto Antony  in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  