-- Indonesia Disaster Aid Begins to Arrive to Survivors as Death Toll Climbs
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2010-10-30T05:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/indonesia-disaster-aid-begins-to-arrive-to-survivors-as-death-toll-climbs.html
Indonesian rescuers used helicopters
to supply food and medicine to survivors of an Oct. 25 tsunami
in Sumatra as the death toll rose, while Mount Merapi in central
Java erupted for the second time in four days.  Survivors in remote parts of the Mentawai Islands, where
waves reached 400 meters inland after a 7.5-magnitude quake, are
dependent on airdrops in the absence of roads and docks for
ships to moor, said Gagah Prakoso, a spokesman for the
 Indonesian Search and Rescue Agency . The death toll increased to
413, with 303 people missing, the National Disaster Management
Agency said on its  website .  “Some villages are so remote they don’t have roads linking
them, while some have no docks and the water is too shallow for
even smaller ships to approach,” Prakoso said by telephone
yesterday. “Helicopters are the most effective means.”  The 3-meter (10-feet) high tsunami swept away houses along
the coastline of the Mentawai island chain, leaving survivors
stranded without food, clothes or medicine for a fourth day. The
range of the helicopters’ reach is limited as refueling is only
available at their base in Padang, while bad weather is
hampering relief efforts, Prakoso said. Padang, the provincial
capital of West Sumatra, is about 240 kilometers (150 miles)
north of Mentawai.  Bad weather was forecast yesterday, which would make it
more difficult to fight disease and keep people warm and fed,
Dave Jenkins of SurfAid International, a Mentawai-based
independent aid group working with the government, was cited as
saying by Agence France-Presse.  Merapi Erupts Again  In central Java, about 400 kilometers east of Jakarta,
Mount Merapi erupted again today, spewing more hot ash over its
slopes, Agus Budianto, head of volcanic observation at the
 Volcanology and Geology Disaster Mitigation Center , said by
telephone.  “More eruptions are still possible,” Budianto said. “We
can’t say that we’ve seen the worst yet.”  At least 36 people died and about 47,900 people have been
evacuated following a volcanic eruption Oct. 26, the nation’s
disaster management agency said on its website. Mount Merapi
means mountain of fire.  It’s become too dangerous to carry out plans to evacuate
cattle from the volcano’s slopes, Oka Hamid, a spokesman at the
Red Cross Indonesia’s Yogyakarta branch, said yesterday. Some
villagers have been going home to feed their livestock, he said.  ‘Ring of Fire’  Indonesia, a country of more than 17,000 islands, is prone
to earthquakes as it forms part of the “Ring of Fire,” an arc
of volcanoes and fault lines surrounding the Pacific Basin. A
7.6-magnitude earthquake in the same area in October 2009 left
more than 1,000 people dead in Padang, many of whom were buried
in mudslides and the rubble of collapsed buildings.  A magnitude 7 earthquake carries about as much as energy as
199,000 tons of TNT, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  A tsunami generated by a magnitude-9.1 earthquake off
northern Sumatra in December 2004 left about 220,000 people dead
or missing in 12 countries around the Indian Ocean.  Since the December 2004 quake and tsunami, countries
including Thailand, Malaysia and India have been installing
detection buoys and setting up warning networks.  The system consists of seismological stations and deep-sea
sensors, linked to more than 20 information analysis centers
capable of receiving and distributing tsunami advisories.  Many coastal areas have been equipped with sirens or other
alarms to warn of approaching waves.  Indonesia has had two of the world’s biggest volcanic
eruptions in the past 200 years, Mount Tambora in 1815 and
Krakatau in 1883.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
 Eko Listiyorini  in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  