-- Iran Agrees to Resume Negotiations on Nuclear Program After Yearlong Break
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-10-29T18:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/iran-agrees-to-resume-negotiations-on-nuclear-program-after-yearlong-break.html
Iran’s clerical regime, under
pressure from international economic sanctions, agreed to
restart talks over its disputed uranium enrichment activities
for the first time in more than a year, the European Union said.  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , the envoy of the
five permanent United Nations Security Council members plus
Germany on the nuclear program, said she will meet with  Saeed Jalili , Iran’s nuclear negotiator, after Nov. 10.  “This is a very significant move and we’re now in touch
with Iran this morning to see whether we can agree the time and
place as quickly as possible,” Ashton told reporters at an EU
summit in Brussels.  Iran’s return to the negotiating table opens a new chapter
in U.S.-led efforts to force the country to provide reassurances
that it isn’t seeking to build atomic weapons, which might touch
off a nuclear arms race in the Middle East.  The decision to resume contacts comes two days after the EU
announced details of sanctions on its banking, energy and
shipping industries, enforcing a fourth set of UN penalties that
so far have failed to persuade Iran to stop enriching uranium.  The two sides last met in Geneva on Oct. 1, 2009. In a
letter to the EU today, Jalili said Iran agreed to resume the
dialogue under a number of undisclosed conditions,  PressTV 
reported on its website.  “We would hope that Iran would come to the table prepared
for a meaningful engagement,” State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told reporters today in Washington. “We had strong
signs a year ago when the first meeting took place. We thought
it was a constructive engagement.”  Investment Ban  The EU’s sanctions package includes a ban on new investment
in or equipment sales to Iran’s oil and natural-gas industries,
restrictions on export-credit guarantees and insurance, and
closer monitoring of banks doing business with Iran.  In shrugging off previous UN sanctions, Iran has denied
Western suspicions that it is building bombs, saying the nuclear
program is designed to generate electricity for a growing
population.  “They still don’t have an agreement about what should be
on the agenda,”  Richard Dalton , a former British ambassador to
Iran who consults with the London-based Chatham House policy
advisory group, said in a telephone interview. “The P5+1 aren’t
prepared to talk about Iranian demands and the Iranians aren’t
prepared to abandon their nuclear program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  