-- Ireland, Greece Debt Woes Reverse Sovereign Default Swaps Rally
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-10-29T16:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/ireland-greece-deficit-woes-halt-europe-s-sovereign-default-swaps-rally.html
A bondholder showdown in Ireland,
slumping Greek tax revenue and political gridlock in Portugal
reversed Europe’s biggest sovereign debt rally in three months.  The  average price  of credit-default swaps on Portugal,
Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain rose to 406.5 basis points from
363.5 last week, according to CMA. That’s the biggest weekly
increase since Aug. 13.  Governments of Europe’s so-called peripheral nations are
struggling to lower their budget deficits even as they impose
public spending cuts and increase taxes. A review of Greece’s
2009 budget showed the deficit was above 15 percent of gross
domestic product, more than previously estimated, and the nation
has “serious tax compliance issues,” Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said this week.  “They need to get out of a deficit spiral,” said  Tim Brunne , a Munich-based strategist at UniCredit SpA. “It becomes
increasingly difficult if you have high debt, and that feeds
back again into your deficit and that’s a very difficult spiral
to get out of.”  Credit-default swaps on Greece jumped to 794 basis points
today from 671.5 last week, CMA prices show. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its
debt agreements. An increase signals deterioration in
perceptions of credit quality.  No Negotiations  Swaps on Ireland soared to 474 basis points today from 428
Oct. 22 as the government became locked in a standoff with Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. noteholders over who should bear the cost of
rescuing the nationalized lender.  Alan Dukes , the chairman of
the bank, said he wouldn’t negotiate with creditors who pledged
to block a proposed debt exchange that will impose almost $2
billion of losses.  Portugal climbed to 378 basis points from 343 last week
after the government and the country’s main opposition party
broke off talks on the biggest budget cuts since at least the
1970s, possibly jeopardizing passage of the 2011 plan to tame
the euro-region’s fourth-biggest deficit.  Contracts on Spain increased to 215 basis points from 204
last week, while Italy was unchanged at 171, CMA prices show.  “Sovereign issues are likely to be with us for most of the
next decade until we see a combination of further unparalleled
interventions, big currency moves, inflation, restructurings
and/or defaults,”  Jim Reid , head of fundamental strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in London, wrote in a note to investors. “We
are not close to any of these at the moment but over time we’ll
likely see these themes re-emerge. History would have to be re-
written if we don’t.”  Corporate Credit  Swaps on Europe’s peripheral nations also drove a broader
gauge of sovereign risk higher, reversing a month-long rally.
The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of contracts on 15
governments rose to 151 basis points today from 142.5 Oct. 22.  The cost of insuring against losses on European corporate
and bank bonds was little changed this week and benchmark
indexes are heading for the biggest monthly declines since July.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell to 97.5 basis points today from 99
last week, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The gauge is down
from 110.75 basis points Sept. 30.  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings fell to 458
basis points from 459 basis points Oct. 22, JPMorgan prices
show. The index cost 510 basis points last month.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to the senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers rose to 124.5 basis points from 123.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($13.9 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  