-- Italian October Inflation Rate Increases as Food, Cigarette Costs Advance
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-10-29T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/italian-october-inflation-rate-increases-as-food-cigarette-costs-advance.html
Italy’s  inflation rate  rose to the
highest in almost two years in October as food and cigarette
prices increased, more than offsetting lower transport costs.  The  inflation rate  based on European Union measurements
climbed to 2 percent from 1.6 percent in September the Rome-
based national statistics office Istat said in a preliminary
report today. The rate was higher the median  forecast  of 1.7
percent of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Prices  rose
0.7 percent from the previous month.  Food costs in the euro region’s third-biggest economy have
increased every month since May and gained 0.3 percent in the
month. Higher food prices also contributed to pushing the euro-
area inflation rate to 1.9 percent, the highest since Nov. 2008,
a separate report showed today. Food may keep rising in coming
months as commodity prices climb.  Based on  Italian methodology , prices rose 0.2 percent in
October from the previous month and gained 1.7 percent  from a
year earlier , Istat said. The cost of transportation fell 0.1
percent from September, and communication declined 0.9 percent,
according to the report.  “Inflation is seen broadly stable throughout the first
half of 2011 and averaging 1.5 percent and 1.9 percent,
respectively, this year and the next,”  Marco Valli , chief
Italian economist at UniCredit Mib in Milan said before the
report.  The European Central Bank, which aims to keep  inflation  in
the 16-nation euro region just below 2 percent, on Oct. 7 left
its  key interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent. The ECB last
month forecast euro-region inflation will average about 1.6
percent this year and around 1.7 percent in 2011.  Italy’s producer prices rose 0.2 in September  from the
previous month  and 4.1 percent  from a year earlier , Istat said
in a separate report earlier today.  Italian household confidence  unexpectedly rose for a second
month in October as consumers grew more optimistic about the
outlook for economic growth and jobs.  Final Italian consumer-price data will be released Oct. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  