-- Italian Unemployment Rises as Weak Spending Holds Back Export-Led Recovery
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-10-29T09:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/italian-unemployment-rises-as-weak-spending-holds-back-export-led-recovery.html
Italian  joblessness  rose in
September for the first time in seven months as weak  consumer
spending  held back the export-led recovery.  The unemployment rate climbed to a seasonally adjusted 8.3
percent from a revised 8.1 percent in August, Rome-based
national statistics office  Istat  said today. That matched the
median  forecast  of 9 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Even though the $2.3 trillion  economy  grew 0.5 percent in
the second quarter, the recovery has created few jobs. Real
unemployment, including workers paid by a state-backed fund for
layoffs, topped 11 percent in the same period, the Bank of Italy
said Oct. 15, more than the 8.5 percent official rate in the
period.  Job losses may rise in coming month after companies
including  Telecom Italia SpA  and  UniCredit SpA  approved plans to
reduce hours, pay and staff. The Finance Ministry forecasts the
jobless rate will rise this year to 8.7 percent.  Still,  consumer confidence  unexpectedly rose this month as
households grew more optimistic about the outlook for growth,
the  Isae Institute  said this week.  “Once discouraged people will re-enter the labor force,
because they turn more confident on the prospects of the
economic recovery, we could see the unemployment rate resuming
an upward trend,”  Marco Valli , chief Italian economist at
UniCredit Mib in Milan said before the report.  To help revive domestic demand the government freed up the
remaining 110 million euros ($152 million) in its consumer-
incentive program aimed at boosting spending on electric
vehicles and home appliances, among other products, the Industry
Ministry said in an Oct. 21 statement.  Istat originally reported an 8.2 percent unemployment rate
in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  