-- Gandolfini’s Hillbilly Twang; Teeming ‘Hornet’s Nest’: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/james-gandolfini-s-hillbilly-twang-teeming-hornet-s-nest-rick-warner.html
“ The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet’s
Nest ” opens with tattooed computer hacker Lisbeth Salander
lying in a hospital bed with a bullet in her head.  Salander recovers, but the third and final Swedish film
based on Stieg Larsson’s trilogy of best-selling crime novels
remains comatose for almost 2 1/2 hours.  Explaining the convoluted plot is like trying to solve a
Rubik’s Cube blindfolded. All I can say is that it involves
government corruption so massive it makes Watergate look like a
parking ticket.  Crusading magazine publisher Mikael Blomkvist (Michael
Nyqvist) is determined to expose the whole mess, even if it
means losing his editor/lover Erika (Lena Endre), getting raided
by police and being targeted by assassins in a Stockholm bar.  Salander (Noomi Rapace) also has her hands full. In
addition to facing trial for three murders, she must confront
the shrink who had her committed to a mental institution and
battle her thuggish half-brother in an abandoned warehouse. In
the latter scene, she wields a nail gun in a way you won’t find
in any instruction manual.  “The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet’s Nest,” from Music Box
Films, is playing across the U.S. Swedish, with English
subtitles. Rating: **  ‘The Rileys’  James Gandolfini ’s Southern accent in “ Welcome to the
Rileys ” sounds like a bad imitation of a hillbilly. It’s one of
several false notes in this downbeat drama about a runaway
stripper and a couple dealing with the loss of their teenage
daughter.  Gandolfini plays Doug Riley, an Indianapolis plumbing
contractor whose wife Lois ( Melissa Leo ) has become a shut-in
since their daughter died in a car crash. When he meets 17-year-
old stripper Mallory ( Kristen Stewart ) during a business trip to
New Orleans, it awakens his paternal instincts and he tries to
turn her life around.  Leo, acclaimed for her hard-bitten characters in “Frozen
River” and TV’s “Homicide: Life on the Street,” plays an
emotionally fragile woman who blames herself for her daughter’s
death. Stewart, best-known as the dreamy small-town girl who
falls in love with a vampire in the “Twilight” series, is a
cynical lost soul who initially resists Doug’s attempts to help
her. (Doug moves into her grungy apartment, cleans it up and
fines her for cursing.)  No Henry Higgins  Except for Leo, who gives her melancholy character
surprising resilience, the curious casting doesn’t pay off. It’s
fine for Gandolfini to show his softer side after playing a
vicious mobster on “The Sopranos,” but he’s miscast in the
Henry Higgins role. And Stewart’s raw, vulnerable stripper is a
stereotype that offers no surprises.  The best moments occur after Lois finally leaves her house
and drives to New Orleans to join her husband. When Lois meets
Mallory, whose mom died in a car accident when she was a child,
she bonds with the girl over their shared grief. They go
shopping together and Lois explains why she’s so guilt-ridden
over her daughter’s death.  The film is directed by Jake Scott, whose father Ridley
received Oscar nominations for directing “Thelma & Louise,”
“Gladiator” and “Black Hawk Down.” The younger Scott is a
prominent music-video maker who still has a lot to learn about
the rhythm of a feature film.  “Welcome to the Rileys,” from Samuel Goldwyn Films, is
playing in New York, Boston and Los Angeles. Rating: *1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 