-- Japanese Bonds Decline for Third Week Ahead of BOJ, Fed Policy Meetings
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-10-29T07:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/japan-s-bonds-extend-third-weekly-decline-before-boj-fed-policy-meetings.html
Japanese  bonds  fell for a third week
as traders reduced bets on government debt before the Bank of
Japan and Federal Reserve hold policy meetings next week.  Ten-year bonds also declined on speculation dealers reduced
their holdings to prepare for a 2.2 trillion yen ($27.3 billion)
auction of the securities next week. The Bank of Japan yesterday
brought forward the date of its next meeting, fueling
speculation it will follow the Fed in increasing debt purchases
to spur growth.  “There are too many unpredictable events next week and
investors want to reduce their positions to avoid risk,” said
 Akitsugu Bandou , a senior economist in Tokyo at Okasan
Securities Co. “As things deteriorate for bonds, a 0.9 percent
coupon may be a tough sell for the auction.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond rose two basis
points to 0.925 percent as of 3:53 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
0.8 percent security due in September 2020 fell 0.179 yen to
98.868 yen. Ten-year yields climbed 3.5 basis points this week.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery dropped 0.31 to
143.20 at the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Fed policy makers meet Nov. 2-3 to consider steps to boost
an economy growing too slowly to reduce unemployment. Market
participants are focusing on the size, timing and maturities of
likely purchases aimed at lowering long-term rates.  BOJ Meeting  The BOJ, which left its benchmark interest rate and credit
programs unchanged yesterday, will meet on Nov. 4-5. The central
bank plans to discuss purchases of exchange-traded funds and
real-estate investment trusts, it said.  “The BOJ can introduce additional measures if markets
react to the Fed’s policy excessively,” said  Takehito Yoshino ,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $24.8 billion as chief fund
manager at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s second-
largest bank. “The BOJ will be ready to take swift action if
the yen rises. This expectation has weighed on yields.”  Bonds still completed a seventh monthly gain, the longest
winning streak since December 1993, as a strengthening yen and
declining stocks boosted demand for the relative safety of
government debt.  The yen rose to 80.41 per dollar on Oct. 25, the strongest
level since April 1995. It gained 0.6 percent today to 80.55,
and the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 1.8 percent.  The Ministry of Finance will auction 10-year bonds on Nov.
2. The previous sale of the securities on Oct. 7 drew bids for
2.85 times the amount on offer, compared with a so-called bid-
to-cover ratio of 3.16 at the September auction.  Primary dealers, which are required to bid at government
debt sales, often reduce holdings of bonds before an auction in
case prices decline before they can pass on the new securities
to investors.  Japan’s bonds have handed investors a return of 3 percent
this year, according to an index compiled by Merrill Lynch & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 