-- Japan Says No Sign China Resumed Rare Earth Exports, Aims to Press Issue
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T06:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/japan-says-no-sign-china-resumed-exports-of-rare-earths-after-disruptions.html
Japan said it has no evidence China
resumed exports of rare-earth metals, which were disrupted last
month during a territorial dispute that soured relations between
Asia’s two largest economies.  “As of yesterday, there is no information about new cargo
movements,” Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  told
reporters in Tokyo. “The Japanese government intends to use
every opportunity to ask China to improve the situation
regarding export restrictions.”  Sengoku’s comments come after the New York Times reported
that China yesterday ended an unannounced embargo on exports of
rare earths to the U.S., Europe and Japan. While customs
officials allowed shipments to resume to all three destinations,
those to Japan face extra scrutiny and delays, the report said,
citing four industry officials it didn’t identify. China had
blocked exports to Japan since Sept. 21, and to the U.S. and
Europe on Oct. 18, the New York Times said.  China’s customs bureau said today there has never been a
cutoff in outbound shipments of rare earths, a group of 17
chemically similar metallic elements including cerium and
europium. China has been reviewing export licenses and other
paperwork for rare-earth shipments, according to a statement
read by an official in the bureau’s news office who declined to
be identified. China in July said it was cutting export quotas
for rare earths by 72 percent for the second half of the year.  Environmental Damage  Prices of rare earths have climbed as much as sevenfold in
the past six months. China controls more than 90 percent of
world supply, leading Japan, the U.S. and Germany to seek new
supplies. Greenwood, Colorado-based  Molycorp Inc.  and Sydney-
based  Lynas Corp.  plan to open rare-earth mines in the U.S. and
Australia in the next two years.  China’s Commerce Minister on Oct. 20 pledged to maintain
supplies of rare earths and denied suggestions there was an
embargo on shipments.  The export cuts are related to environmental and
conservation efforts, Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  told
his Japanese counterpart  Seiji Maehara  today in Hanoi, according
to Japan’s Deputy Press Secretary Noriyuki Shikata.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who is attempting to set
up a meeting with Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  at a regional
summit in the Vietnamese capital today, set aside funds to find
new sources of the metals in a stimulus plan announced earlier
this month.  Verifying Reports  Japan is contacting companies to verify reports that China
has resumed the export of rare-earth minerals, Shikata said.  “It takes a few days if there is a change of policies and
a change in the way export licenses are approved,” he said.
“It takes time before we can confirm everything is back to
business as usual.”  Yoji Sato , executive vice president of Tokyo-based  Sojitz
Corp. , a trading company, said disruptions are continuing and
the company is looking to diversify its sources of rare earths.
The company plans to begin importing them from Vietnam starting
in 2012.  “We understand that matters dealing with shipping still
aren’t going smoothly in China,” Sato said. “We do believe
that the delay in exports will eventually be cleared.”  Clinton, Obama  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on Oct. 27 called
on China to clarify its policy on rare-earth minerals following
the reports of export curbs. The issue may arise when President
 Barack Obama  meets Chinese counterpart  Hu Jintao  on Nov. 11 at
the start of a meeting of Group of 20 leaders, said  Jeff Bader ,
senior director for Asian affairs on the National Security
Council.  Chinese foreign ministry officials have repeatedly said
they hope to improve ties with Japan after a ship collision in
disputed waters sparked a diplomatic stand-off. Japan detained
the Chinese captain of a fishing boat for two weeks after it
collided with Coast Guard vessels on Sept. 7, near islands known
as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China.  -- Takashi Hirokawa ,  Li Yanping ,  Michael Forsythe ,  Daniel Ten Kate ,  Ichiro Suzuki . Editors:  Ben  Richardson,  Bill Austin .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  