-- Japanese Stocks Fall as Yen Appreciates; Advantest Retreats on Earnings
-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 2010-10-29T06:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/japanese-stocks-fall-on-strengthening-yen-advantest-declines-on-earnings.html
Japanese  stocks  fell, sending the
Topix index to its longest losing streak in more than three
months, as a strengthening yen added to concern about earnings
growth and some companies missed their profit estimates.  NGK Insulators Ltd., which makes industrial ceramic
products, and Hino Motors Ltd., a truckmaker, plunged more than
14 percent as the companies cut their full-year profit forecasts.
 Advantest Corp. , the world’s biggest maker of memory-chip
testers, lost 9 percent as profit missed forecasts and Nomura
Holdings Inc. cut its rating on the stock. Sharp Corp., Japan’s
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, plunged 5.8 percent
after cutting its profit outlook.  “The yen’s appreciation and weak growth in sales are
slowing down an earnings recovery,” said  Takeshi Osawa , a
senior fund manager in Tokyo at Norinchukin Zenkyoren Asset
Management Co. “Sales growth is too weak to absorb the impact
of the stronger yen. The drag of slowing production on earnings
was revealed at companies such as Sharp.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.8 percent to 9,202.45
at in Tokyo, the lowest close since Sept. 9. The broader  Topix 
index dropped 0.4 percent to 810.91, with about five stocks
retreating every three that advanced. It had the longest losing
streak since the five-day period ended July 22. For the month,
the Nikkei lost 1.8 percent while the Topix index was down 2.2
percent.  A drop in Japan’s industrial production and a decline in
consumer prices in September also weighed on the market.  The Nikkei 225 has decreased 13 percent this year, the most
among the world’s 40 largest equity markets. Shares in the gauge
trade at 16 times estimated earnings on average, the lowest
level in seven weeks.  -- Editors:  Sam Waite ,  John McCluskey .  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 