-- Judge Orders Regulators, Drilling-Ban Foes to Court on Nov. 9
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2010-10-29T21:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/judge-orders-regulators-drilling-ban-foes-to-new-orleans-court-on-nov-9.html
The U.S. judge overseeing legal
challenges to the Obama Administration’s deep-water drilling ban
ordered government regulators, environmentalists, politicians
and oil industry groups opposed to the moratorium to a
conference in New Orleans federal court on Nov. 9.  “The court would like to know what issues remain to be
resolved in each case,’’ U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  said
in an order issued today.  It’s the first time Feldman has asked parties involved in
all four lawsuits related to the administrative policy
restricting drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet to assemble
together in his court. The order includes environmentalists who
sued in Washington federal court this month to force Interior
Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  to restore the ban he rescinded.  The  Obama  Administration first restricted deep-water
drilling in May, after the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig
caused the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Feldman threw
out that first ban in June, calling it overly broad, and Salazar
instituted a second, similar ban in July. Salazar withdrew the
latter ban this month after determining the industry has made
progress on improving offshore drilling safety and oil-spill
response capabilities.  The cases are Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC. v, Salazar,
2:10-cv-1663; Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-1941; State
of Texas v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-2949, all U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans), and Center for
Biological Diversity v. Salazar, 1:10-cv-1787, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington, DC).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 