-- Junk Sets October Record, Mortgage Bonds Rally: Credit Markets
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-10-29T17:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/junk-sets-october-record-mortgage-bonds-rally-credit-markets.html
Sales of junk bonds in the U.S. set
a record for October as returns topped investment-grade debt and
more borrowers were raised than cut. Government-backed mortgage
bonds may  beat  Treasuries by the most in at least 10 years.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd.  and  Calpine Corp.  led
speculative-grade companies issuing $33 billion of debt this
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes have
gained 2.32 percent on average in October, compared with a loss
of 0.16 percent for high-grade securities, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Index data show. Not since March have high-yield,
high-risk securities outperformed by such a wide margin.  Investors have driven relative yields down to the lowest in
five months on confidence the Federal Reserve will flood the
economy with money, allowing the neediest borrowers to access
capital and refinance debt. The rally is robust enough to extend
into next year, said  James Murren , chief executive officer of
Las Vegas-based casino operator MGM Resorts International, which
sold $500 million of notes rated CCC+ on Oct. 25.  “The bond market will get better,” Murren said yesterday
in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “People
are going to start to have a more positive outlook toward 2011.
They’re going to be searching for yield and they’re going to go
down the rating scale and that’s going to benefit companies like
us.”  Ratings Raised  The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter as consumer spending climbed the most in almost
four years, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington.  Amid signs the expansion will continue, Standard & Poor’s
raised its ratings on 20 junk issuers this month, while cutting
12, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The extra yield investors
demand to hold speculative-grade bonds rather than Treasuries
narrowed to 577 basis points, or 5.77 percentage points,
yesterday from this year’s peak of 727 in June, the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index shows.  Elsewhere in credit markets, spreads on company bonds
worldwide were unchanged at 164 basis points, down from this
year’s high of 201 on June 11, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields
averaged 3.486 percent, from 3.515 percent Oct. 27.  Colgate-Palmolive Co., the world’s largest toothpaste
maker, may issue $438 million of debt as soon as today in a two-
part offering, according to a person familiar with the
transaction.  Default Swaps  The sale may include $188 million of 5-year notes that
yield 38 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and
$250 million of 10-year securities at a spread of 53 basis
points, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.15 basis point to a
mid-price of 94.15 basis points as of 12:50 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, touched the lowest in
more than five months Oct. 26 at 92.5 basis points.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The $5.3 trillion market for mortgage bonds guaranteed by
government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and federal
agency Ginnie Mae rallied in October, after underperforming
Treasuries for two straight months on refinancing concern.  Agency Mortgage Securities  The so-called agency mortgage securities have returned 105
basis points more than Treasuries with maturities similar to
their projected average lives, according to Barclays Capital
 index data  through Oct. 27. They trailed U.S. government debt by
52 basis points last month, the most since November 2008, just
after the height of the global financial crisis.  Bond buyers returned to the debt, in part, as monthly
reports confirmed refinancing by homeowners remains limited even
amid record-low  mortgage rates , according to  Paul Jacob ,
director of research at broker Banc of Manhattan Capital.  Prepayment reports released on Oct. 6 “weren’t as scary as
the market feared,” Jacob said in a telephone interview from
Calabasas, California. “While October had faster speeds, it
didn’t go bump in the night.”  ‘Tapered Off’  The tightening in spreads on high-yield debt shows
investors are betting the risk that the economy will slip back
into recession has fallen to 14 percent, according to BNP
Paribas Asset Management’s  Martin Fridson . That’s compared with
33 percent on Aug. 27, when spreads were 681 basis points.  “The concern has tapered off somewhat because the economic
indicators are more favorable and there’s less talk about a
double-dip than there once was,” said Fridson, global credit
strategist in New York, who started his career as a corporate
debt trader in 1976. “There’s just not as much of a
preoccupation with recessionary talk.”  Junk bonds are rated below BBB- at S&P and less than Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service.  Fortescue , Australia’s third-largest producer of iron ore,
sold $2.04 billion of five-year notes this week in the biggest
offering of junk-rated U.S. dollar-denominated bonds by an
Australian company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fortescue Offering  The 7 percent notes due in November 2015 were priced to
yield 575 basis points more than Treasuries. The iron ore miner
sold $1.65 billion of notes in the U.S. currency in August 2006
at coupons as high as 10.625 percent. Moody’s assigned the
latest notes a provisional grade of B1 and S&P ranked them B.  Proceeds of Fortescue’s latest bond sale will be used to
repay bank loans, the company said in an Oct. 27 statement to
the Australian stock exchange.  “We’ve pushed many of our clients into what we view as a
very attractive market from a refinancing standpoint,” said
Richard R.S. Smith, head of high-yield capital markets at Royal
Bank of Scotland’s RBS Securities unit. “We think it’s going to
continue as long as the U.S. government maintains a 10-year
treasury rate below 3 percent.”  RBS helped managed the sale of MGM Resorts’s $500 million
of six-year notes. The casino operator will use the proceeds to
repay some of the $1.2 billion owed to lenders under its senior
credit facility, MGM said in a statement distributed by
PRNewswire.  Calpine  The 10 percent debt was priced to yield 10.25 percent, or
874 basis points more than Treasuries. The offering followed MGM
Resorts’ $845 million sale of 10-year, 9 percent notes in March.  Calpine , based in Houston, sold $2 billion of February 2021
debt on Oct. 18, increasing the size of the offering from $1.5
billion. The 7.5 percent notes were priced to yield 495 basis
points more than Treasuries.  U.S. junk bonds have gained 14.4 percent this year,
compared with the record 57.5 percent in all of 2009. The 1.96
percent increase this month in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global High Yield & Emerging Markets Plus index exceeds gains on
the Global Broad Market Corporate Index by 215 basis points,
after outperforming by 233 basis points last month.  Global corporate bonds have lost 0.19 percent in October,
after rising 0.22 percent in September and the worst performance
since losing 0.4 percent in May. Year-to-date returns total 8.84
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 