-- Khodorkovsky Guilty Verdict Risks Damaging Medvedev
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-10-29T12:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/khodorkovsky-guilty-verdict-may-hurt-medvedev-reputation-before-election.html
The trial of jailed former Yukos Oil
Co. chief  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  on embezzlement charges is set to
end next week, and the outcome threatens to undermine President
 Dmitry Medvedev  and his promises to bolster the rule of law in
Russia, analysts said.  Khodorkovsky, 47, once Russia’s richest man, is expected to
make his closing statement on Nov. 3. The judge then may take as
long as two months to issue a verdict, said  Maxim Dbar , a
spokesman for the  defense team . Prosecutors have requested a 14-
year sentence for Khodorkovsky, who is scheduled for release
next year on a previous conviction.  “A guilty verdict would damage President Medvedev’s
reputation and his drive for modernization,” said Mark Urnov, a
political scientist at the Higher School of Economics in Moscow.
“Though Medvedev has never said that he’d like Khodorkovsky to
be freed, his acquittal would be seen by many as Medvedev’s
achievement,” Urnov said.  Medvedev, 45, is seeking to show foreign investors their
rights will be respected as he lines up companies including
Siemens AG and Cisco Systems Inc. for his planned “Silicon
Valley” technology hub in the Moscow suburb of Skolkovo.  ‘Negative Outcome’  Concern about the legal system is one reason Russia got
one-fifth of the investment made in China and Brazil and half of
that in India during the last three years, according to EPFR
Global of Cambridge, Massachusetts, which tracks $13 trillion of
assets.  The ex-Yukos chief and his business partner,  Platon Lebedev , are both already serving eight-year jail terms for
fraud. Khodorkovsky said the sentence was motivated by his
opposition to  Vladimir Putin , now prime minister, who was
president at the time of his 2003 arrest. Yukos, once Russia’s
largest oil company, was bankrupted under a $30 billion tax
claim and sold off in pieces to state oil company OAO Rosneft.  “A negative outcome for Khodorkovsky is likely to
reinforce investor skepticism toward the fairness of the Russian
business climate,” said  James Beadle , a U.K.-based consultant
for investors in Russia. “I don’t think that any foreign
company is under any illusions that things have changed; they
remain hesitant.”  Foreign Investment  Moscow’s dollar-denominated  RTS Index  fell 17 percent in
four days after Khodorkovsky’s arrest on Oct. 25, 2003. It took
the index 11 weeks to return to its previous level. The Dow
Jones Industrial Average added 9.1 percent, Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index rose 14.1 percent and Brazil’s Bovespa Index surged
34 percent in the same period.  Foreign direct investment  fell from October 2003 for a year
and then started to grow steadily, peaking in 2007. While a
second conviction for Khodorkovsky won’t affect the plans of
companies already in Russia, it would keep those away who have
concerns about the investment climate, said Urnov.  Khodorkovsky and Lebedev face charges of stealing 350
million tons (2.57 billion barrels) of oil from Yukos, which the
former billionaire has denounced as “utter rubbish.”  Defense lawyers expect time served under the first
conviction will be counted toward a new sentence, Dbar said.  Putin, 58, has denied any involvement in the case, saying
Khodorkovsky’s first conviction was the work of an independent
judiciary and that the second trial came as a surprise to him.
Khodorkovsky “deserved his punishment,” Putin told  Kommersant 
newspaper in an August interview.  ‘Arrogant’ State  Igor Yurgens , an adviser to Medvedev, said earlier this
month that he wanted to see Khodorkovsky set free in order to
signal a move away from a “massive, arrogant and strong state”
that is oppressing business.  Putin shouldn’t stand in the 2012 elections because
Medvedev is the right person to modernize Russia, Yurgens, head
of the Institute of Contemporary Development, said in a
Kommersant  interview  published on Oct. 21.  Putin relinquished the presidency to his protege Medvedev
in 2008 because the constitution prohibits three consecutive
terms. He hasn’t ruled out running in 2012.  Former Soviet President  Mikhail Gorbachev  said on Oct. 27
that Putin’s ruling United Russia party “has been doing
everything it can to move away from democracy, to stay in
power.”  Medvedev has made the fight against corruption and the
attraction of foreign investment to help diversify Russia away
from reliance on raw materials one of the cornerstones of his
presidency. He has been showing signs of independence and this
is creating “friction” between him and Putin, Gorbachev told
the British Broadcasting Corporation in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  