-- Korean Won Set for Monthly Gain on Speculation Fed Moves Will Spur Inflows
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-29T01:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/korean-won-set-for-monthly-gain-on-speculation-fed-moves-will-spur-inflows.html
South Korea’s won is headed for a
second monthly gain on speculation the Federal Reserve will pump
more money into the U.S. economy, boosting demand for higher-
yielding emerging-market assets.  Overseas investors bought $3.9 billion more Korean stocks
than they sold this month as the government predicted Asia’s
fourth-biggest economy will probably expand 6 percent this year.
The U.S. central bank has asked bond dealers and investors for
projections of central-bank asset purchases over the next six
months, according to a New York Fed survey obtained by Bloomberg
News.  The won rose on fund inflows and “prospective pricing in
of quantitative easing gradually over the month,” said  Cliff Tan , managing director and head of emerging-market foreign-
currency research at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong.  The won climbed 1.4 percent this month to 1,124.83 per
dollar as of 9:32 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency, which dropped 0.1 percent today and
this week, has gained 2.9 percent this year.  Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said today the Group
of 20 nations will discuss policy measures to counter excessive
capital inflows and outflows at a summit to be held in Seoul in
November, MoneyToday reported.  Decisions by China and some Asian emerging economies to
limit currency appreciation is contributing to “significant
exchange-rate misalignments” and tensions across G-20, the
International Monetary Fund said in a note yesterday.  South Korean bonds rose for a second day. The yield on the
3.75 percent bond due June 2013 dropped three basis points to
3.21 percent, according to Korea Stock Exchange. The rate
reached 3.03 percent, a record low, on Oct. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  