-- Nasdaq Profit Beats Analyst Estimates Amid Market Shares Gains in Options
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-10-29T20:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/nasdaq-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-amid-market-shares-gains-in-options.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. , the owner of
the second-largest U.S. stock exchange, reported third-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates as it gained market share in
options, offsetting slower equity trading.  Net income attributable to Nasdaq rose to $101 million, or
50 cents a share, from $60 million, or 28 cents, a year ago, the
New York-based company said today in a statement. Earnings beat
the 46-cent  average  estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Revenue excluding liquidity rebates, brokerage, and
clearance and exchange fees rose 6.5 percent to $372 million.  “Nasdaq posted a solid quarter, with growth in revenues
and slower growth in expenses,” Daniel Harris, a New York-based
analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a note after
today’s release. “Even with volumes down meaningfully quarter-
over-quarter in every asset class, Nasdaq was able to deliver
relatively stable results.”  Facing competition from U.S. stock exchanges and more
aggressive pricing, Nasdaq increased its focus on derivatives
trading and plans to add more complex order-handling features by
the end of 2010, the company said Sept. 22. The exchange
operator started a third equities platform to boost market share
as it struggles to attract orders in a fragmented market
dominated by electronic traders.  Advancing  Nasdaq shares  advanced  1 percent to $21.11 at 4 p.m. in New
York. They have gained 6.5 percent in 2010,  compared  with a 4.8
percent rise in the  FTSE/Mondo Visione Exchanges Index , which
tracks 18 companies. The stock advanced because of “the
combination of the top-and bottom-line beat, as well as Nasdaq’s
announcement of an expanded buyback program,” Alex Kramm, a UBS
AG analyst in New York, wrote in a note today.  The company said today it has bought back $300 million
worth of stock under a $550 million share-repurchase program,
$100 million of which was purchased in the third quarter. Chief
Financial Officer  Adena Friedman  said on a conference call that
Nasdaq could buy as much as $100 million more in stock this
quarter and expects the program to last into 2011, as long as
market conditions remain constant.  “It obviously makes it harder to do an acquisition with
our stock being lower, and easier to want to buy back shares,”
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said on the conference
call. Nasdaq shares trade at 11.1 times reported earnings, the
second-lowest in the FTSE/Mondo Visione Exchanges Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Smarts Deal  Last quarter, the company completed the acquisition of
Smarts Group Holdings, which provides market surveillance for
exchanges and regulators. The  acquisition , which Greifeld said
on the call cost about $75 million in cash, was integrated into
Nasdaq’s market technology unit. It accounted for about $4.5
million in expenses last quarter and should add to earnings by
the first quarter of 2011.  “As the markets fragment around the world, it’s harder and
harder for all of the trading activity to be regulated and
surveilled in a comprehensive way,” Friedman said in an
interview. “One of the things Smarts does is provide market
surveillance technology not only to exchanges, but to regulators
as well. We really are excited about that and what that does to
enhance our market technology offerings.”  Revenue  from that unit will be about $43 million this
quarter and $200 million by 2012, she said.  Expense Outlook  Operating expenses for 2010 will be $880 million to $890
million, including about $60 million in one-time costs. Last
quarter, they were $102 million, according to today’s release.
Investments in new initiatives such as the new Nasdaq OMX PSX
market will generate about $80 million to $85 million in 2010
revenue, with estimated costs of $62 million, down from the $71
million forecast three months ago.  Nasdaq OMX, formed by the merger of Nasdaq and Stockholm-
based OMX AB in 2008, introduced PSX, the 12th U.S. stock
exchange and the company’s third equity exchange on Oct. 8. The
exchange’s price-size priority matching system is designed to
attract larger orders from mutual funds and other investors,
benefiting firms willing to trade more shares. PSX’s market
share averaged about 0.5 percent daily, Greifeld said on the
call.  Chi-X  The company runs seven Nordic and Baltic bourses and is
considering a takeover of Chi-X Europe Ltd., an alternative
trading venue, Greifeld said on Oct. 11. Exchanges across the
globe are seeking ways to win back market share lost to new
rivals after European regulators opened the market to
competition in 2007.  “It’s part of our DNA to consider growth opportunities,”
Friedman said in the interview. “Chi-X would be one of several
things we would consider.” She declined to comment further on
the status of the discussions.  The company’s U.S. equity market share slipped to 22.3
percent last quarter from 22.8 percent in the second quarter,
according to today’s statement. Its share of U.S. options
trading grew to 28.8 percent last quarter, with both the Nasdaq
OMX PHLX and Nasdaq Options Market platforms reaching their
highest-ever market share on a quarterly basis at 23.7 percent
and 5.1 percent, respectively.  ‘Positive Momentum’  “Nasdaq has generated some positive momentum in 2010
including strong market-share gains in U.S. options and
favorable volume trends in European cash equities,”  Christopher Harris , a Baltimore-based analyst with Wells Fargo Securities
LLC, wrote in an Oct. 14 note. “Nasdaq possesses good diversity
of revenue including from sources not entirely dependent on
trading activity.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is examining
the role of electronic trading and ways to regulate it after the
May 6 crash erased $862 billion of value from equities in 20
minutes. Greifeld said today that he supports a curb that
prevents shares from trading above or below a certain level
tied, shifting from the existing pilot that has a circuit
breaker halt trading for five minutes when a security’s price
moves rapidly.  He also said he doesn’t expect the SEC to impose new
requirements on market-making firms in 2011.  Deutsche Boerse AG , Europe’s largest exchange operator by
market value, cut its full-year cost forecast on Oct. 27, after
reporting third-quarter profit that beat estimates.  NYSE
Euronext , the New York-based operator of the largest U.S.
exchange, is set to issue its third-quarter report on Nov. 2.
The average projection is for 43 cents a share in profit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 