-- New York Yankees Re-Sign Manager Joe Girardi to Three-Year Contract
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-10-29T19:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/new-york-yankees-re-sign-manager-joe-girardi-to-three-year-contract.html
Joe Girardi  signed a three-year
contract to remain the manager of the New York Yankees through
the 2013 Major League Baseball season.  Financial terms for the 46-year-old Girardi weren’t
disclosed in a news release from the team. The agreement is
worth $9 million compared with $7.5 million for his old deal,
according to the New York Post.  The Yankees went 287-199 during Girardi’s first three years
managing the franchise. In 2008, they missed the postseason for
the first time in 14 seasons. They responded last season with
their 27th World Series title and lost this year’s American
League Championship Series in six games to the Texas Rangers.  The Yankees struggled through the final month of the 2010
season, going 9-17 after Sept. 4, before sweeping the Minnesota
Twins in the best-of-five first round of the playoffs. Girardi
then made decisions with the pitching rotation for the Rangers’
series that were criticized by baseball analysts, using 24-year-
old  Phil Hughes  in Game 2 instead of  Andy Pettitte , the
winningest pitcher in postseason history, and starting  A.J. Burnett  in Game 4 after the left-hander recorded just one
victory since early August. Texas won all three games, then beat
Hughes to clinch its first World Series berth.  Over the next three campaigns, Girardi likely will have to
manage a group of aging homegrown veterans that led the Yankees
to five championships since 1996: shortstop  Derek Jeter , the
team’s captain, is 36; catcher/designated hitter  Jorge Posada  is
39; Pettitte is 38; and relief pitcher  Mariano Rivera  will be 41
in November. Posada is the only one of the four under contract
for 2011.  Marlins Tenure  Girardi joined New York after being named the National
League Manager of the Year in 2006 during his only season with
the Florida Marlins. He was fired from the Marlins before the
award was announced.  He was a major-league catcher from 1989 through 2003,
playing seven seasons with the Chicago Cubs, four with the
Yankees, three with the Colorado Rockies and one with the St.
Louis Cardinals.  Following  Lou Piniella ’s retirement as the Cubs’ manager in
August, Girardi -- an Illinois native and Northwestern
University graduate -- was frequently mentioned by New York and
Chicago newspapers as a candidate for that opening. The position
was filled on Oct. 19 by  Mike Quade , who had served as interim
manager following Piniella’s departure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 