-- NFL's Goodell Says Labor Dispute Already Affecting League Income
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   M i c h e l e   S t e e l e
-- 2010-10-29T12:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/nfl-s-goodell-says-labor-dispute-already-affecting-league-income.html
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said
labor uncertainty is already affecting National Football League
revenue as the U.S.’s most-watched television sport negotiates a
collective bargaining agreement with its players.  “The impact of not having a labor agreement is already
starting,” Goodell said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “It will continue to grow. It will continue to have
a greater and greater impact and my point is that there will be
lost revenue opportunities. And when revenue is reduced, it’s
even harder to reach an agreement.”  The commissioner didn’t provide examples of revenue
declines.  Goodell, in London for this weekend’s game between the San
Francisco 49ers and the Denver Broncos, said uncertainty makes
it difficult for sponsors to plan effectively.  “The longer this uncertainty continues about the future,
the harder it is on our partners and the fans,” Goodell said.  Owners voted in 2008 to shorten the collective bargaining
agreement by two years through the end of this season, saying
the share of revenue that players receive doesn’t account for
costs such as those of building stadiums. The last labor
agreement gave players about 60 percent of the league’s $8
billion in revenue.  George Atallah, a spokesman for the NFL Players
Association, didn’t immediate return a telephone call and e-mail
sent before business hours seeking comment. Players have said
they won’t agree to a deal that amounts to a pay cut and have
asked the NFL to document its financial concerns.  Goodell said much work remains before labor and management
reach a deal.  “We’ve got a responsibility to make sure we do everything
possible to get a labor agreement that’s fair for all parties,”
Goodell said. “I am convinced that it can get done and we have
to do it. It’s going to require focus and it’s going to require
everyone working hard to make sure it gets done. I have made it
very clear, though, that I think the sooner it gets done the
better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
 Michele Steele  in New York at 
 msteele10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 