-- Niger to Vote on New Constitution on Oct. 31; Muslim Leaders Urge Boycott
-- B y   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-10-29T06:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/niger-to-vote-on-new-constitution-on-oct-31-muslim-leaders-urge-boycott.html
Nigeriens go to the polls on Oct. 31
to vote on a new constitution that dilutes the powers of the
presidency, reversing changes made by former President  Mamadou Tandja , and separates the state from Islam.  Religious leaders in the West African nation, the world’s
sixth-largest uranium producer, called on the Muslim majority to
boycott the vote.  “We are against these measures which are against the
desires of 99 percent of Nigeriens, who are Muslims,” Cheik
Boubacar Ide, a member of the Nigerien Association of Islamic
Solidarity, said in an interview yesterday. “This would mean
Niger would be governed without any kind of ideology.”  The constitution would pave the way for fresh elections and
allow a civilian government to replace the current military
junta by April. Soldiers toppled Tandja in February after he
altered the constitution to allow himself to stay in power. The
new document bans soldiers from running for government.  If voters approve the constitution, the president would
serve a maximum of two five-year terms and the prime minister
would have greater powers, including appointing a government.  The constitution would also force the government to publish
oil and mining revenue.  Areva SA , the world’s largest supplier
of nuclear equipment and services, has operations in Niger.  While there are no opinion polls on whether the
constitution will be adopted, none of Niger’s 56 political
parties have opposed the new referendum. Results will be
announced by Nov. 1 or Nov. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Djibril Saidou  in Niamey via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ,
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 