-- Nippon Life Leads Insurer Rush to Japan's Bonds as Fed Targets Inflation
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-10-29T05:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/nippon-life-leads-insurer-rush-to-japan-s-bonds-as-fed-targets-inflation.html
Japan’s largest life insurers are
increasing their holdings of yen-denominated bonds as central
bank efforts to curb deflation fail and U.S. Treasuries head for
their worst month since March.  Nippon Life  Insurance Co., Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co.,
Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. and Sumitomo Life Insurance Co.,
which together oversee the equivalent of $1.5 trillion, said
they plan to add debt issued in Japan. A sale of 30-year
securities by the government on Oct. 14 drew bids for 5.4 times
the amount offered, the most in eight years in a sign of
increasing demand.  Japan’s investors are snapping up yen bonds even with 10-
year yields at 0.91 percent, the lowest in the world and
approaching the record of 0.43 percent set in 2003. That’s
because the so-called real  yield  rises to 1.81 percent after
accounting for a 0.9 percent annual drop in consumer prices,
better than the 1.58 percent on Treasuries of similar maturity.
As recently as July, the relationship was reversed and U.S. real
yields were higher than their Japanese counterparts.  “We plan to continue to increase mainly the holdings of
yen-denominated assets that bring stable interest income,”
 Yosuke Matsunaga , general manager of Osaka-based Nippon Life,
Japan’s largest life insurer, told reporters on Oct. 20. Japan’s
life insurers issue their investment outlooks twice a year.  Plans to Buy  Dai-ichi, located in Tokyo and the second-biggest life
insurer in Japan, said this month it plans to buy yen bonds to
safeguard returns. Meiji Yasuda, which also has its main office
in Tokyo and is the third-largest, said it will favor debt with
longer maturities. Sumitomo Life, the No. 4 life insurer and
based in Osaka, said it aims to invest mainly in Japanese
government bonds with a maturity of 10 years or longer.  Consumer prices will fall 1 percent in 2010, following a
1.35 percent decline last year, according to the median estimate
of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Japan is suffering from deflation even after efforts by
Finance Minster  Yoshihiko Noda  and central bank Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  to boost the economy.  Japan’s government sold yen in September to weaken the
currency after its 10 percent gain against the dollar in the
first eight months of the year threatened to slow the nation’s
export-led recovery. The yen climbed to 80.41 per dollar on Oct.
25, the strongest since April 1995. It traded at 80.63 today as
of 1:52 p.m. in Tokyo.  Rate Cut  The central bank followed in October by cutting its target
for overnight lending to a range of zero to 0.1 percent from 0.1
percent previously and setting up a 5 trillion yen ($61.8
billion) fund to buy government bonds and other assets. The Bank
of Japan already purchases 1.8 trillion yen of debt a month in
the $10.7 trillion market, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “They have been unable to reinvigorate the economy or end
deflation,” said  Michael Hasenstab , who runs the $40.9 billion
 Templeton Global Bond Fund  for Franklin Templeton Investments in
San Mateo, California. “The current policy measures are not
working and are likely to continue for even longer than we’d see
in the U.S.”  The Templeton Global Bond Fund has returned 12.2 percent a
year over the past five years, better than 98 percent of its
peers, Bloomberg data show. The fund is betting the yen will
weaken, Hasenstab, co-director of international bonds, said in
an e-mail.  Losing Appeal  Japanese bonds are gaining favor as U.S. government debt
loses appeal, threatening the record $836.6 billion of
Treasuries  held  by investors in the Asian nation.  Treasury yields show investors are expecting inflation to
accelerate in the U.S. as the Federal Reserve begins a new round
of bond purchases to keep the economic recovery from faltering.  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for the annual increase in consumer prices over the life of the
securities, widened to 2.2 percentage points on Oct. 27, the
most since May 18, from 1.47 percentage points in August. The
U.S. consumer price index rose 1.1 percent last month from a
year earlier.  “The market expects the inflation rate to increase,” said
 Takuya Yamamoto , who helps oversee $102 billion as a portfolio
manager in Tokyo at Diam Co., a unit of Dai-ichi Life. “The
Treasury yield will rise” once the Fed starts buying, said
Yamamoto, who added that his firm trimmed its Treasury holdings
this month.  While Treasuries due in 10 years or more have lost 3.8
percent this month, Japanese bonds with similar maturities,
which are most sensitive to deflation or inflation, have
declined 1.1 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  Monthly Loss  The whole Treasury market handed investors a 0.4 percent
loss in October, the most since it fell 0.9 percent in March,
the indexes show.  Investors in Japan  sold  a net 2.08 trillion yen of overseas
debt in September, the most in 11 months, according to the
Ministry of Finance.  Foreign investors owned 5.2 percent of Japan’s  debt  at the
end of 2009, according to the Ministry of Finance. Investors
outside the U.S. own about half of America’s publicly traded
debt, Treasury Department figures show.  “Yields are too low” said  Sungjin Park , who oversees the
equivalent of $55.5 billion as head of fixed income in Seoul at
Samsung Investment Trust Management Co., South Korea’s largest
private fixed-income investor.  Higher Yields  Japanese money managers who can invest abroad should seek
higher yields in Treasuries or quasi-sovereign and corporate
bonds in emerging markets, according to Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond  fund .
Investors confined to Japan should favor bonds due in seven to
10 years, according to Pimco, located in Newport Beach,
California.  “We still remain skeptical about the prospects for the
effectiveness of the BOJ’s policy, and expect deflation to
remain an issue,”  Tomoya Masanao , the head Pimco’s portfolio
management for Japan, said in an Oct. 26  report .  Central bank efforts to flood the economy with money will
maintain demand for Japanese government bonds, often called
JGBs,  Yasuharu Takamatsu , head of investments at Meiji Yasuda
Life, said on Oct. 19.  “We expect Japan’s long-term bond yields to remain low
because other financial institutions such as banks continue
buying JGBs with excess money,” Takamatsu said. Treasury yields
“will go up as U.S. economy recovers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ; 