-- Nobel Winner Pissarides Says U.S. Risks `Lost Decade' Amid Weak Job Growth
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2010-10-29T14:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/nobel-winner-pissarides-says-u-s-risks-lost-decade-amid-weak-job-growth.html
The United States risks an extended
period of low economic growth with little job creation and
additional emergency measures being considered by the Federal
Reserve aren’t likely to work, said  Christopher Pissarides , the
winner of this year’s Nobel Prize for Economics.  “There is a high risk that there might be a lost decade,”
Pissarides, a professor at the London School of Economics, said
in an interview in Rome today. “The situation is worrying
because there hasn’t been as much job creation as expected.”  While the U.S. economy has emerged from a recession,
growing at a 2 percent annual rate in the third quarter,
companies continue to resist hiring. The U.S. Labor Department
said 64,000 jobs were created in September, fewer than
economists forecast, and the jobless rate remained at 9.6
percent.  Some economists compare the situation with Japan in the
1990s when its asset bubbles burst, credit flow contracted, and
both employment and prices stagnated, giving rise to the
expression “lost decade.”  Pissarides said the lower growth and lack of jobs also make
the U.S. look increasingly “like a European country, but
without the social policy framework that Europe has.”  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said Aug. 27
the central bank would “do all it can” to sustain the economic
recovery. Investors anticipate the Fed will carry out more so-
called quantitative easing, a move that would pump additional
money into the world’s largest economy.  “It cannot achieve much,” Pissarides said. “What we need
is for banks to start lending more for house purchases and job
creation.”  He said alternative solutions could include new fiscal
policies and measures making it harder for banks to deposit
money with the central bank, thereby forcing them to give
credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 