-- Bankruptcy Rescue of Rangers Set for $100 Million Payoff
-- B y   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2010-10-29T16:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/nolan-ryan-s-bankruptcy-rescue-of-rangers-is-set-for-100-million-payoff.html
Hall of Fame pitcher  Nolan Ryan  and
the rest of the group that led the Texas Rangers from bankruptcy
to the World Series are getting a quick payback.  The team owners, including Ryan and  Chuck Greenberg , the
managing partner and chief executive, may see Major League
Baseball’s championship series boost the team’s value by $50
million to $100 million above the $593 million the group paid in
a bankruptcy court auction Aug. 5, said  Andrew Zimbalist , an
economics professor at Smith College in Northampton,
Massachusetts, who has written about the sports industry.  The World Series “puts us on the map” as a national-
caliber team, Ryan, 63, said yesterday before the Rangers lost
9-0 to the San Francisco Giants, falling behind in the best-of-
seven series 2-0.  “We were more of a North Texas-type franchise in the past
because of the lack of success that we’ve had,” Ryan said at a
news conference at the Giants’ AT&T Park.  Texas hosts the third game against the Giants tomorrow
night at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington. It’s the first World
Series in the franchise’s 50-year history. The Rangers had the
fourth-lowest opening-day payroll among the 30 major-league
teams this season, at $55 million.  The Rangers’ postseason run should be worth $40 million
next year in increased ticket sales, corporate sponsorships,
suite rentals and concessions, said  Marc Ganis , president of
Sportscorp Ltd., a sports business consulting firm in Chicago.  That’s on top of the $1 million-a-game gross profit
Zimbalist said the Rangers stand to make from this year’s
playoffs.  Ryan, Postseason  The involvement of Ryan -- the major-league career leader
with 5,714 strikeouts and a record seven no-hitters among his
324 victories, as well as the trip to the Series, “brings them
up a few notches,” Zimbalist said. “As far as selling tickets
the next several years, it’s a boon. The further they go the
better.”  Ryan said buying the Rangers cost more than his group
originally wanted to pay, so he doesn’t think he got a bargain.  “But I think our timing was good,” he said in an
interview yesterday. “And I’m a believer that timing is
everything.”  The income boost is needed to retain top players, sports
economists said. Ryan and his partners likely will have to pay
more to keep their best players, such as pitcher  Cliff Lee  and
outfielder  Josh Hamilton , and attract new ones, Ganis said.  “Everybody is going to want more money,” he said. “It’s
not only players -- it’s coaches, managers, marketing people,
everybody.”  Bankruptcy  Five months ago, the Rangers were filing for Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection under their previous owner, Dallas venture
capitalist  Tom Hicks , and in need of a $21.5 million loan from
the league to pay its bills. Judge D.  Michael Lynn  of U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas in Fort
Worth wondered aloud whether the team might get stranded on the
road with a maxed-out credit card.  The recapitalized club now is in the hands of Ryan, the
franchise president; Greenberg; and 16 other partners including
 Bob Simpson , chairman of XTO Energy Inc., and  Ray C. Davis , a
director at  Energy Transfer Partners  LP, a Texas pipeline
company.  The Rangers’ Dallas-Fort Worth home market is the fourth-
largest metropolitan area in the nation, according to 2009 U.S.
Census data. That provides ample room for growth in sponsorships
and season-tickets sales, Greenberg, an attorney, said in an
interview on Oct. 26.  “People mistake us for a small- to mid-market team,”
Greenberg said. “Actually, we’re in the largest market in North
America with only one Major League Baseball team.”  Cowboys Town  The big market, and fan loyalty, has helped build the
Dallas Cowboys franchise into the National Football League’s
most valuable team at $1.6 billion, according to Forbes
magazine. Though the Cowboys are in a slump now, with a season
record of 1-5, they benefit from a legacy of five Super Bowl
championships.  It will take more than one season for the Rangers to build
the same kind of devotion among fans, said  Sal Galatioto ,
president of New York-based Galatioto Sports Partners LLC, which
provides investment banking services to teams.  “The halo effect doesn’t last if next season you’re 20
games out,” he said.  Average attendance at Rangers Ballpark increased to 30,928
this season from 27,641 in 2009, the third-highest increase in
the majors, team spokesman  John Blake  said. The Giants, valued
at $483 million by Forbes, averaged 37,499 a game this year.  By defeating the New York Yankees for the American League
title, the Rangers created the likelihood that “baseline
attendance” will increase for five years, Ganis said.  More Tickets  An 8 percent to 12 percent increase in gate revenue would
add $15 million a year to the team’s budget, he said. Increased
sponsorships would provide an additional $20 million a year,
with sales of suites -- priced between $75,000 and $190,000 a
season, according to team figures -- and other sources adding $5
million more, he said.  To keep winning, the Rangers will need to increase their
 payroll , which this season was about one-quarter of the $206
million for the top-spending Yankees, Galatioto said. The
Giants’ payroll of $99 million is ninth highest.  Greenberg said his Texas team is financially secure enough
to bid what it must to keep Lee, who was 7-0 during his career
in the postseason before losing Game 1 of the Series to the
Giants on Oct. 27.  No Pea Shooters  Lee is eligible for free agency once the World Series is
over, and Ganis said the Rangers will have to pay $15 million to
$22 million annually on a multiyear deal to retain the 32-year-
old left-hander. He made $9 million this season, which he
started with the Seattle Mariners before being traded to Texas
in July.  Hamilton, who hit .359 with 32 home runs and 100 runs
batted in this season, made $3.3 million this year and is
eligible for salary arbitration after 2011.  “We’re not going in it with a pea shooter,” Greenberg
said. “We know that we are going to have to be aggressive
financially; we’re prepared to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Korosec  in Dallas, Texas
at   tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 