-- Nomura's Profit Plunges 96% on Losses in Asia, Europe
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-10-29T10:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/nomura-s-net-income-tumbles-96-to-14-million-misses-analysts-estimates.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. , Japan’s
largest brokerage, said profit plunged 96 percent to the lowest
in six quarters as trading income and brokerage commissions fell
and Asian and European operations posted losses.  Net income  plummeted to 1.1 billion yen ($14 million) for
the three months ended Sept. 30, from 27.7 billion yen a year
earlier, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today.
Revenue for the period fell 10 percent to 320.4 billion yen.  The drop in profit was steeper than those of global rivals
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Macquarie Group Ltd. as
Chief Executive Officer  Kenichi Watanabe  struggled to generate
business from his 2008 purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
operations. Nomura’s  shares  have tumbled about 50 percent since
it acquired the bankrupt U.S. firm’s Asian and European business.  “Profitability looks pale compared with global competitors
because Nomura can’t enjoy synergy between the regions as its
U.S. expansion is at an early stage,” said  Masao Muraki , a
director and analyst at Deutsche Securities Inc. in Tokyo.
“We’re gradually witnessing Nomura getting some cross-border
deals in M&A, but big deals in equity finance are yet to come.”  Nomura is looking abroad as the stagnating Japanese economy
hinders growth at home. As well as expanding in Europe and the
rest of Asia, the brokerage is hiring in the U.S., where it is
investing 250 billion yen and plans to offer research coverage
on 600 companies.  Those efforts have been slow to yield results. The company
posted a 14.2 billion yen pretax loss on overseas businesses in
the second quarter, led by operations in Europe and Asia,
compared with 20.1 billion yen profit from abroad a year earlier,
the statement said. Pretax profit in the U.S. fell. Nomura
didn’t give further detail on regional businesses.  Trading Profit Slumps  Declines in trading and brokerage fees contributed to
Nomura’s earnings slump last quarter. Trading profit slid to 103
billion yen from 148.5 billion yen, the company said. Brokerage
commissions dropped to 83.5 billion yen from 95.4 billion yen.  The average daily  trading volume  on the first section of
the Tokyo Stock Exchange fell 15 percent to 1.7 billion shares
last quarter from 2 billion shares in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Nomura’s second-quarter profit was worse than the 1.4
billion yen median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Nomura  fell 3 percent on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
before the earnings announcement and touched a 28-year low
earlier this month.  “In the second half, we will continue to focus on flow
businesses and generating revenues from our investments while
maintaining a robust financial position,” Watanabe, 58, said in
today’s statement.  ‘Top-Tier Bank’  In the late 1980s, Nomura was fleetingly the world’s
biggest financial institution -- with a market value of $76
billion on April 17, 1987, 18 times that of Merrill Lynch & Co.
-- before embarking on a scandal-plagued, decade-long decline.  “We want to be a top-tier investment bank in the medium
term,” Nomura’s Chief Financial Officer  Masafumi Nakada  said in
a press briefing in Tokyo. He said the company has “no plans at
all” to sell new shares to increase capital.  Smaller rival  Daiwa Securities Group Inc.  today posted a
loss of 4.2 billion yen for the quarter, its third straight, as
brokerage and underwriting fees declined. Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc., the investment-banking unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. , said today that net income slid 75 percent
to 5.9 billion yen from a year earlier, when it benefited from a
one-time tax gain.  Banking Fees Rise  The bank got a boost from investment-banking fees, which
increased to 24.9 billion yen for the quarter from 15.6 billion
yen in the same period last year.  Nomura rose in investment-banking rankings in the quarter,
jumping to eighth in advising on mergers and acquisitions from
12th a year earlier. The brokerage worked on 40 deals worth
$66.3 billion in the period, compared with 36 deals worth $20.3
billion a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Advisory deals in the period included Prudential Financial
Inc.’s purchase of American International Group Inc.’s two
Japanese units for $4.8 billion. Nomura was seventh in equity
underwriting last quarter, handling 23 deals worth $7 billion,
up from 10th a year earlier, when it worked on 11 deals worth
$4.1 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Nomura’s earnings for the period compare with net income of
2.3 billion yen in the quarter ended June 30, and 18.4 billion
yen of profit in the three months to March 31.  Macquarie , Australia’s biggest investment bank, today
recorded a 16 percent drop in profit for the six months ended
Sept. 30. Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in
Wall Street history, posted a 40 percent decline in third-
quarter profit this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  