-- Obama to Promote Business Deduction to Spur Investment
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-10-29T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/obama-tax-deduction-plan-will-speed-150-million-in-breaks-treasury-says.html
President  Barack Obama  will make the
case that his proposal to let companies take immediate tax
deductions for the full cost of new equipment will help the
economy grow and create jobs by encouraging about $50 billion in
new investments through 2011.  Four days before midterm elections that will determine
control of Congress, the president is scheduled to promote the
plan today in remarks at  Stromberg Metal Works Inc. , in the
Washington suburb of Beltsville, Maryland. The company, which
employs about 400 people, would like to hire more workers and is
an example of a business that may benefit from the deduction,
according to administration officials who briefed reporters
yesterday.  A report released by the  Treasury Department  today said the
plan will accelerate $150 billion in tax breaks to 2 million
businesses by letting companies write off the full cost of
qualified capital expenditures in the year they are made, rather
than deducting the costs over several years.  The total cost of the proposal is estimated to be about $30
billion over 10 years because businesses that take the full
deduction up-front wouldn’t get the smaller write-offs they
would have received in years to come.  The proposal, which requires congressional approval, would
be the largest temporary investment incentive ever, said an
administration official who outlined the plan to reporters on
condition of anonymity.  Last year’s federal stimulus plan included a similar
provision that let companies more quickly write off 50 percent
of capital investment costs. Obama last month signed a measure
extending that provision through the end of this year.  Tax Savings  Together, the tax breaks enacted last month and the
proposal for 2011 would provide about $200 billion in tax
savings for companies through 2011, according to the Treasury
report.  The proposal is designed to encourage companies to boost
the economy by spending some of the record $1.84 trillion in
cash they had on hand at the end of the first quarter, up from
$1.43 trillion at the start of 2009.  Ed Kleinbard , a former staff director at Congress’s Joint
Committee on Taxation, said providing immediate deductions for
the full cost of expenses may encourage companies to game the
system by borrowing money for equipment purchases just to get
the tax benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  