-- Obama Says Packages Bound for U.S. Had Explosives
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-10-29T20:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/obama-says-two-packages-bound-for-u-s-from-mideast-contained-explosives.html
President  Barack Obama  said two
packages shipped from Yemen and directed to Jewish institutions
in Chicago contained explosive materials and were intercepted.  The discovery, in the U.K. and Dubai, triggered an
examination of air cargo flights in the U.S.  “The American people should know that the counterterrorism
professionals are taking this threat very seriously and are
taking all necessary and prudent steps to ensure our security,”
Obama, who was notified of the threat last night, said in
remarks at the White House.  Obama said examination of the packages showed they contained
explosive material, leading the president and his top
intelligence aides to conclude there is “a credible terrorist
threat against our country.”  He said the U.S. is pursuing the investigations and pledged
to “destroy this al-Qaeda affiliate” based in Yemen.  Authorities are investigating whether the shipments
were staged as rehearsals for a future attack, a U.S. official
said.  Obama’s homeland security and counterterrorism adviser,
John Brennan, said the devices were “intended to do harm.”  The U.S. is giving greater scrutiny to packages from Yemen
as a result, Brennan said.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation checked packages on
three  United Parcel Service Inc.  jets from Europe. Two of the
planes landed in Philadelphia and another in Newark, New Jersey,
UPS spokesman Mike Mangeot said today. The Newark jet was later
cleared for another flight.  Brennan notified Obama at 10:35 p.m. yesterday and the
administration coordinated a response with federal agencies
including the Central Intelligence Agency, Homeland Security and
the Federal Aviation Administration, White House press secretary
 Robert Gibbs  said after Obama spoke.  The alert on the planes comes on the heels of the arrest of
a Virginia man who Justice Department prosecutors say
participated in what he thought was an al-Qaeda plot to bomb
subway stations in the Washington area. Farooque Ahmed, 34, of
Ashburn, a U.S. citizen born in Pakistan, is being held without
bail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net  