-- Obama a Drag on Democrat Joe Manchin in Pivotal West Virginia Senate Race
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/obama-a-drag-on-democrat-joe-manchin-in-pivotal-west-virginia-senate-race.html
Five years ago, the popular new U.S.
Senator  Barack Obama  helped out when  Robert Byrd  of West
Virginia needed money for his Senate re-election campaign,
backing a fundraising effort that generated more than $600,000
in 24 hours.  Now, President Obama is a drag on another Democrat’s effort
to win the seat held by the late Byrd for more than a half-
century. Governor  Joe Manchin , 63, is in a tough fight  with
Republican businessman John Raese and is distancing himself from
some of Obama’s more unpopular programs.  This week, Raese, 60, campaigned with Arizona Senator  John McCain , who won  West Virginia  by 13 percentage points in his
2008 presidential loss to Obama. With tight Senate contests in
Colorado, Illinois, Pennsylvania, Nevada and Washington,
Republicans are focusing on West Virginia Nov. 2 to help win a
majority of 51 votes in the  Senate , which Democrats now control
59-41.  “We will be up late on election night to see who has
control of the Senate; we will not be up so late unless we send
John Raese” to Washington, McCain told about 250 Republicans at
the American Legion hall in Charles Town on Oct. 26. “This will
come down to a handful of votes.”  Byrd died June 28 at age 92 after serving as a senator
since 1959. In March 2005, Obama wrote a fundraising  appeal  on
Byrd’s behalf, issued by the MoveOn.org advocacy group.  Rated a Tossup  The race is rated a tossup by the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report in Washington. An Oct. 23-24 poll by  Public
Policy  Polling had Manchin leading by six percentage points. An
Oct. 26  Rasmussen Reports  poll put Manchin ahead by three
percentage points, a reversal from the prior week’s poll that
gave Raese a seven-point lead.  “Voters are starting to realize the difference between the
two candidates” and that Raese “has ideas that aren’t in line
with West Virginians,” said Nathan Drain, Democratic Party co-
chairman in the Clarksburg area, citing Raese’s opposition to
the minimum wage.  Manchin, who won a  second term  in 2008 with 70 percent of
the vote, had a 69 percent approval rating among West Virginia
voters in the Oct. 23-24 Public Policy poll, compared with only
31 percent for Obama.  In a  television ad  Manchin took aim -- literally -- at the
president’s proposed cap-and-trade plan to control emissions
linked to global warming. Standing in a wooded area, Manchin was
shown loading a rifle and firing a bullet through a copy of the
bill nailed to a tree.  ‘Kill Cap-and-Trade’  “We are going to kill cap-and-trade,” Manchin told more
than 100 supporters at the Stonewood Volunteer Fire Department
near Clarksburg on Oct. 27. “It’s not good for this country and
it’s definitely not good for West Virginia.”  Manchin  sued  the  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  this
month over restrictions on new permits for surface coal mining,
which he said will “harm West Virginia’s economy and cost us
jobs.”  Raese contends Manchin would become a “rubber stamp” for
Obama in Washington. The Republican, making his fourth run for
the Senate, said his message “resonates right now as a strong
fiscal conservative.”  “The people are starting to look at the direction of this
country” and are supporting his candidacy, Raese said while
campaigning in Charles Town on Oct. 26.  The Public Policy poll showed that Manchin increased his
support among voters calling themselves conservatives to 24
percent, up from 17 percent in the group’s Oct. 9-10 poll.  No Republicans  West Virginia hasn’t elected a Republican U.S. senator
since Chapman Revercomb won a special election in 1956. He lost
to Byrd in 1958.  “For a Republican to win Byrd’s seat” would “send shock
waves,” said Mick Staton, a one-term Republican congressman
from West Virginia and chairman of the party committee in
 Berkeley County  in the eastern panhandle.  To prevent that, “we are putting forth our biggest get-
out-the-vote effort in recent history,” said Derek Scarbro,
executive director of the state  Democratic Party .  The  Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee  has spent $2.7
million on television and radio ads attacking Raese, according
to the  Sunlight Foundation , which tracks independent campaign
expenditures.  The  National Republican Senatorial Committee  has spent more
than $3.8 million to oppose Manchin, according to reports
compiled by the Sunlight Foundation. Spending by outside groups
on both sides of the campaign totals $2.4 million.  Extremist  Manchin is portraying his opponent as a political extremist
for his opposition to the minimum wage and advocacy of scrapping
the  U.S. Education Department .  “John Raese’s ideas are crazy,” says a Democratic Party
television ad airing this week. It shows Raese calling for an
expansion of the “Star Wars” anti-missile defense system with
“1,000 laser systems in the sky.”  Without mentioning Obama at the Stonewood rally, Manchin
voiced his ire about partisanship in Washington.  “I am as mad as you are about what’s going on” because
members of both parties “put their politics first,” he said.
“We are going to fix America by putting this country first.”  Manchin received his loudest applause when he promised to
emulate Byrd’s independence and advocacy for West Virginians.  “He didn’t care who was president or what party you were
from, if you were wrong for West Virginia you were wrong,”
Manchin said. “That’s the footsteps I hope to follow in.”  Byrd used his positions as Senate Democratic leader and,
later, as  Appropriations Committee  chairman to locate thousands
of federal jobs in his state.  Democrats have sought to portray Raese as an inauthentic
West Virginian because he has a home in Palm Beach, Florida,
where his wife, Elizabeth, is registered to vote.  One ad concludes with the line that Raese’s “wife isn’t
registered” in West Virginia “so she can’t vote for him. Why
should we?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Stonewood, West Virginia at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 