-- Hodgson Russ, Chairman Sued for $70 Million Over Investments With Madoff
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-10-29T23:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/hodgson-russ-chairman-sued-for-70-million-over-investments-with-madoff.html
Paul Comeau , chairman of Hodgson
Russ LLP, and the law firm were sued for more than $70 million
in connection with losses to Jack N. and Lorraine L. Friedman
trusts through investments with swindler  Bernard Madoff .  Comeau and Jay Ofsink, a now-deceased accountant with
Berdon LLP, also a defendant, followed their wealthy clients
from New York to Palm Beach in the 1990s and provided legal,
financial and trustee services, including “gambling on
imprudent investments” with Madoff, according to the complaint
filed in New York state Supreme Court today by the Friedmans’
grandchildren.  A suit the grandchildren brought in Florida Circuit Court
for Palm Beach County asserting the claims was dismissed July 1
after that forum was deemed inconvenient, the complaint says.
This action involves claims for negligence, breach of fiduciary
duty, legal malpractice and constructive fraud.  “There were a plethora of red flags that would have
alerted a prudent money manager that Madoff was running a Ponzi
scheme had the trustees and professionals performed the
necessary due diligence,” according to the complaint.  When Jack Friedman retired, he sold his interest in the
family business, Florasynth, a fragrance and flavor
manufacturer, according to the complaint. He died in 2005. The
Friedman grandchildren say that since then, the trustees have
grossly mismanaged the trusts in other ways, including an
unnecessary staff of 15 employees to manage the Florida real
estate and home where Lorraine Friedman resides.  Messages left for Comeau, the law firm, and Berdon after
regular business hours weren’t immediately returned.  Irving Picard  Asked about the Friedmans,  Irving Picard , the trustee
overseeing the Madoff bankruptcy, said “We’re not making
information public about anybody’s account.”  Picard said he hasn’t yet distributed $1.5 billion he has
recovered, though victims have received funds advanced from the
Securities Investor Protection Corp.  Madoff is serving 150 years in prison after pleading guilty
in 2009 to orchestrating a $65 billion Ponzi scheme, the biggest
in history.  The case is Caitlin Friedman v. Paul Comeau, 114255/2010,
New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 