-- Ohio’s Cordray Asks for Affidavits by ‘Robo-Signer’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2010-10-29T20:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/ohio-attorney-general-asks-for-affidavits-by-wells-fargo-robo-signer-.html
Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  asked judges in his state for copies of foreclosure
affidavits filed in their courts that are signed by a woman he
identified as a “robo-signer” for  Wells Fargo Bank NA .  Cordray sent a letter to 133 judges asking for information
on any cases that involved Xee Moua, a Wells Fargo vice
president of loan documentation. Cordray sent a separate letter
to Wells Fargo & Co. asking the bank to vacate any foreclosure
judgment in Ohio involving incorrect affidavits.  Moua gave a deposition in a Florida case in March in which
she testified that “statements made by her in sworn affidavits
were false,” Cordray said in the letter. Moua said she wasn’t
familiar with the books and records related to the transactions
an affidavit covered, according to Cordray.  “These are crucial misstatements that are an affront to
our legal system,” he wrote. “If you become aware of
affidavits Ms. Moua signed in any foreclosure cases filed in
your court, I would appreciate receiving copies of such
affidavits.”  Tom Goyda, a spokesman for Wells Fargo, said the company’s
policy is “to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
and to follow required court procedures” and that executives
“intend to cooperate” with Cordray’s inquiries.  Wells Fargo , the biggest U.S. home lender, said Oct. 27
that it will file supplemental foreclosure affidavits to courts
in about 55,000 proceedings after finding some statements “did
not strictly adhere to the required procedures.” The bank
has said it chose to resubmit the documents out of “an
abundance of caution” and that none of “these instances led to
foreclosures which should not have otherwise occurred.”  ‘Vacate Any Judgment’  Cordray provided a copy of a letter to Wells Fargo deputy
general counsel David Moskowitz in which he asked the San
Francisco-based bank to “vacate any judgment and withdraw any
motion that resulted in a judgment in which Wells believes an
improper affidavit was submitted.”  The attorney general also asked for a list of Ohio
foreclosures in 2009 and 2010 in which a Wells Fargo entity
served as plaintiff or servicer and a list of all people who
signed Ohio foreclosure affidavits for Wells Fargo in those
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Riley  in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 