-- Tokyo Exchange Investigates Inside Trading Before Capital Raising Plans
-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2010-10-29T05:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/tokyo-stock-exchange-says-its-probing-suspicious-trades-before-fundraising.html
The Tokyo Stock Exchange said it’s
investigating suspicious trading of shares that fell before
companies announced capital-raising plans. Japan’s securities
trading watchdog said it’s monitoring the situation.  “We are making proper investigations in such cases where
insider trading is suspected,” said  Naoya Takahashi , a
spokesman at the exchange. “We have received no direct requests
from investors to initiate an investigation.”  He declined to name specific companies and said the
investigation was routine, without elaborating.  The two bodies are examining possible insider trading where
short-selling increased substantially before announcements of
new share sales, the Financial Times reported earlier today,
citing officials at both organizations. The report cited share-
price declines in  Nippon Sheet Glass Co.  and Tokyo Electric
Power Co. before the announcement of stock issues.  Tokyo Electric is careful about corporate information and
that it’s unlikely that it was the source of any leaked
information, said Masahyuki Kishino, a  Tokyo Electric  spokesman.
“It’s unthinkable the information could have been leaked from
our company,” he said.  Spokespeople at Nippon Sheet Glass couldn’t be immediately
reached for comment.  “Stocks that move irregularly right before or after a
capital increase will be monitored,” said Tatsushi Terada,
Director of the Strategy and Policy Coordination Division of the
Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission. “We have
received no direct requests from investors to initiate an
investigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  