-- Tokyo Electric Power Raises Full-Year Earnings Forecast to $992 Million
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 2010-10-29T09:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/tokyo-electric-power-raises-full-year-earnings-forecast-to-992-million.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. , Asia’s
largest electricity generator, raised its full-year earnings
forecast by 23 percent, after demand rose during a record hot
summer in Japan.  Full-year net income will probably be 80 billion yen ($992
million), up from 65 billion yen forecast earlier, the company
said in a statement. Net income fell 33 percent to 92.3 billion
yen in the six months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier.  The company returned to profit in the three months through
September as the hottest summer since records began in 1898
drove power demand for air conditioning. Tokyo Electric may
restart a reactor at its Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant, by
December, helping to cut fuel costs during the winter months,
said  Tomohiro Jikihara , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche
Securities Inc.  “Tokyo Electric may raise its profit forecast again as it
will probably resume operations of the nuclear reactor,”
Jikihara said, before today’s announcement. Jikihara has a
“hold” rating on Tokyo Electric’s stock.  Today’s revision was the second time the Tokyo-based
company raised its profit outlook this year. The company may
report full-year profit of 107 billion yen, according to the
average of 12 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Share Decline  Tokyo Electric’s  shares  rose 2.5 percent today to close at
1,925 yen, reducing this year’s decline to 17.6 percent. The
shares fell to an eight-year low in September after Tokyo
Electric announced plans to sell new stock. The company made its
earnings announcement as the market closed.  The profit revision implies it expects to make a loss in
the second half. Tokyo Electric typically books costs for
repairing power plants and grids in the second half of the year,
company spokesman Manabu Takeyama said.  As the mercury rose in the summer, Tokyo Electric rebounded
from a loss of 5.4 billion yen in the three months to June 30,
when it made a special charge after adopting a new accounting
standard for dismantling an old nuclear reactor.  Temperatures in the three months through Aug. 31 were 1.64
degrees Celsius (3 degrees Fahrenheit) higher than the summer
average between 1971 and 2000, the Japan Meteorological agency
said in a  statement  on its website.  Japan’s 10 regional power utilities led by Tokyo Electric
 produced  8.8 percent more electricity in the six months ended
Sept. 30 to meet the power demand, according to  the Federation
of Electric Power Companies of Japan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
 Michio Nakayama  in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 