-- Honda Raises Annual Profit Forecast as Gains in Asia Offset Stronger Yen
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2010-10-29T09:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/honda-raises-annual-profit-forecast-as-gains-in-asia-offset-stronger-yen.html
Honda Motor Co. , Japan’s second-
largest carmaker, raised its profit forecast as surging sales in
Asia outweigh the impact of a stronger yen.  Honda expects net income of 500 billion yen ($6.2 billion)
in the year ending March, compared with an earlier estimate of
455 billion yen, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement
today. Sales may rise to 9 trillion yen from 8.6 trillion yen,
the automaker said.  The company’s car sales increased in Japan and other Asian
countries during the fiscal first half, while the company also
raised its forecast for global motorcycle sales and said it
would reduce capital spending. Honda raised its profit outlook
even as the  yen  trades near a 15-year high against the dollar,
reducing the value of overseas earnings.  “Honda is solidly increasing its profitability, and the
motorcycle unit is also supporting the business,” said  Tadashi Usui , an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in Tokyo.
“Compared with Toyota, Honda is more economical with its
capital investments, so we can be confident about its finances
from a fixed-cost perspective.”  Still, based on today’s statement, Honda expects to earn
only 92 billion yen in the fiscal second half, compared with 408
billion in the first six months.  Honda fell 0.3 percent to 2,937 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, before the earnings
announcement.  Mazda, Toyota  Mazda Motor Corp. , Japan’s second-biggest car exporter,
also raised its annual profit forecast today on increased sales
in North America and Europe.  Toyota Motor Corp. President  Akio Toyoda  this week said he
felt an “an extreme sense of crisis” because of the strong yen.
Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, reports results on Nov. 5.  Honda’s net income increased to 136 billion yen in the
three months ended Sept. 30 from 54 billion yen a year earlier,
the company said. Sales rose to 2.25 trillion yen from 2.06
trillion yen.  Honda today revised its full-year exchange-rate assumption
to 84 yen to the dollar from an earlier forecast of 87 yen. The
company expects the yen to average 80 against the dollar in the
fiscal second-half.  The dollar traded at 80.94 yen as of 8:55 a.m. in Tokyo
after strengthening to 80.41 yen on Oct. 25, the lowest level
since April 1995.  Capital Expenditure  The company will also cut costs by trimming capital
expenditures by 20 billion yen from an earlier plan, to 360
billion yen for the year through March.  To reduce the impact of the yen on net income, Honda will
focus on more efficient manufacturing of exports from Japan,
Executive Vice President  Koichi Kondo  told reporters in Tokyo
today  “Our localization of production in North America is at a
good level, so we need to make sure that we can be profitable
with our export models,” he said.  Honda makes 87 or 88 percent of the vehicles it sells in
North America in the region, he said. While the company could
consider overseas production for newly introduced models, it is
unlikely to offshore output for existing models, he said.  North America  The maker of Accord sedans lowered its global vehicle sales
forecast to 3.615 million units from an earlier estimate of 3.64
million, citing weaker demand in North America and Europe.  “The North American market is not recovering as much as we
had earlier expected,” Kondo said.  Honda also faces declining sales in Japan after a
government subsidy program for fuel-efficient cars ended Sept. 8.
The company’s deliveries in September dropped 12 percent. Sales
in its domestic market rose 13 percent in the fiscal first half.  To boost sales, Chief Executive Officer  Takanobu Ito  is
expanding Honda’s gasoline-electric hybrid line-up and unveiled
a hybrid version of the Fit compact, its most popular model in
Japan, on Oct. 8.  The carmaker will introduce a 500,000-rupee ($11,200) car
in India next year and plans to sell a similar model in Thailand,
Ito said on July 21. Sales in Asia outside Japan increased 15
percent from in the six months through Sept. 30.  Honda, also the world’s biggest motorcycle maker, aims to
build a new plant in Indonesia next year with capacity to make
500,000 two-wheelers a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  