-- ONGC Targets Higher Oil Production in Three Years to Help Boost Earnings
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-10-29T05:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/ongc-targets-higher-oil-production-in-three-years-to-help-boost-earnings.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , India’s
biggest energy explorer, plans to increase crude output from new
fields in three years after stagnant production from ageing
blocks curbed profit growth.  The company, which produces 45 percent of India’s oil, may
raise annual output 12 percent to 28 million metric tons in the
year starting April 2013,  Sudhir Vasudeva , director of offshore
services, said in New Delhi yesterday. ONGC reported second-
quarter net income rose 6 percent to 53.9 billion rupees ($1.2
billion), missing analysts’ estimates after increasing
provisions for dry wells.  ONGC is lagging behind global producers including  Exxon
Mobil Corp.  and  PetroChina Co.  that have beaten earnings
estimates this quarter after oil prices increased. India in June
more than doubled gas prices to boost ONGC’s earnings before
selling a 5 percent stake by March.  “Their track record of increasing production hasn’t been
the best,” said  Kishor Ostwal , managing director of CNI
Research (India) Ltd., a publicly traded equities research
provider in Mumbai. “Government policy on fuels and gas pricing
gives them a good incentive to increase production.”  The Indian explorer needs to boost earnings to compete with
 Cnooc Ltd.  and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.  in the race for
overseas energy assets. India lost out to China in at least
$12.5 billion of deals for assets in the year ended June 30.  ONGC  shares  gained 0.2 percent to 1,307 rupees at 10 a.m.
in Mumbai trading compared with a 0.1 percent increase in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange. The
stock has gained 11 percent this year.  Resource Base  “We have a strong resource base and that will start
showing in the next few years,” ONGC Chairman  R.S. Sharma  told
reporters in New Delhi yesterday. “From 2006 to 2009 were very
tough years as high crude prices pushed up cost of services and
slowed things.”  Natural gas production may increase 67 percent to 100
million cubic meters a day starting April 2015, Vasudeva said.  Four-decade-old fields that have reached their peak make up
about 80 percent of ONGC’s current output. The explorer has
awarded $3.5 billion of contracts in the past 18 months that
will enable new fields to start in three years, Vasudeva said.  “Production that has been languishing for some time will
get a boost,” he said. “Till then, there will be some pressure
on volumes.”  Dry Wells  The company wrote off 24.4 billion rupees for dry wells in
the second quarter compared with 6.5 billion rupees a year
earlier, according to  Vinay Nair , a Mumbai-based analyst with
Khandwala Securities Ltd. Depreciation, including depletion,
amortization and impairment loss, rose to 44 billion rupees from
23.6 billion rupees, according to the earnings statement.  Oil and gas price increases boosted the New Delhi-based
explorer’s profit to the highest level in more than two years.  ONGC supplied crude at $62.75 a barrel in the quarter after
giving discounts to state refiners as partial compensation for
selling fuels below cost, an 11 percent increase from a year
earlier. The government also allowed ONGC to more than double
gas prices to 6,818 rupees per thousand cubic meters in June.  Discounts given by ONGC to state refiners rose 15 percent
to 30.2 billion rupees from a year earlier, Finance Director
 D.K. Sarraf  said Oct. 26. The subsidy bill was 55.2 billion
rupees in the three months ended June 30.  Crude oil in New York gained 12 percent to an average
$76.20 a barrel in the quarter, boosted by demand from India and
China, Asia’s two fastest growing economies. The December
contract decreased as much as 49 cents, or 0.6 percent, to 81.69
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, and was at $81.91 at 1:02 p.m. Sydney time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 