-- Ophir Energy Finds ‘Good Volume’ of Gas Off Tanzania
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-10-29T14:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/ophir-energy-finds-good-volume-of-gas-off-tanzania-plans-more-drilling.html
Ophir Energy Plc, a U.K.-based
exploration company, found a “good volume” of natural gas off
the coast of  Tanzania , said Halfani R. Halfani, an official at
the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corp.  The gas was found in Block 4, southeast of Mafia Island,
where Ophir plans to start drilling a second exploratory well in
“the next few days,” Halfani, director of exploration
production and technical services at the state-run company, said
in an interview today in Dar es Salaam, the commercial capital.  An additional well is planned by the company in the
southern Block 1 early next year, he said. Ophir Energy is a
partner with  BG Group Plc  in the project, Halfani said.  “If we continue to make discoveries in other locations,
it’s very likely we’ll be able to come up with a development
project,” Halfani said. “We’re trying to come up with a
portfolio of reserves so it’s big enough for production.”  Two natural gas deposits are in commercial production in
Tanzania. Songo Songo holds 1.5 trillion cubic feet of gas,
while the Mnazi Bay field near the border with Mozambique has 2
trillion cubic feet of gas in place, Halfani said.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the state-controlled Brazilian oil
company, expects to drill two offshore exploratory wells in the
East African country in the second half of next year, while
 Statoil ASA , Norway’s biggest oil and natural-gas producer, may
begin drilling one well in the same period, he said.  Production Sharing  About 16 oil and gas exploration companies, including
 Maurel & Prom SA  of France and Australia-based  Key Petroleum
Ltd. , have signed 24 production-sharing agreements with the
Tanzanian government.  Tanzania is also in talks with  Tullow Oil Plc  to license a
block in the country’s western Lake Tanganyika, Halfani said.
The government may open a “limited tender” for the rights to
four onshore blocks by December to do work that includes aerial
surveying and collecting basic geological data.  Piracy has been a challenge for companies searching for oil
and gas in the Indian Ocean off the coast of Tanzania, said
Halfani. Pirates attempted four times to attack supply vessels
carrying fuel, chemicals and other materials from Tanzania’s
southern Mtwara town to the Ophir Energy prospect, he said.  Somali pirates seized 35 vessels off the east coast of
Africa so far this year as they expanded their area of
operations further into the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea,
according to the  International Maritime Bureau .  Tanzania will open its fourth bidding round for deep
offshore drilling in April 2011, making areas in the Indian
Ocean available for oil and gas exploration, the TPDC said last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Dar es Salaam via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 