-- Mortgage Lenders Haven’t Gotten What’s Due Them: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-10-29T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/mortgage-lenders-haven-t-gotten-what-s-due-them-ann-woolner.html
A distressed U.S. homeowner with a
temporarily modified mortgage made every payment on time for 13
months. That’s 10 months past the standard three-month trial
period, but the servicer was predicting a permanent
modification, so the homeowner kept paying.  Instead, a negotiator who never spoke to the borrower
rejected the permanent adjustment so the sheriff’s department
put the house up for sale, no explanation given.  Another borrower spent 11 months working out and paying a
reduced mortgage on a trial basis, only to learn that the
servicer decided not to grant him a permanent break after all.
The reason cited could have been given in the first place: the
value of the  property  was too low.  If the homeowner had known that sooner, he would have
stopped paying sooner and “not thrown away the money,” the
borrower’s lawyer wrote in a letter to the servicer.  A couple says that they, too, made all their modified
mortgage payments and submitted every piece of paperwork
required -- multiple times because the servicer claimed to keep
losing it, despite proof of delivery.  This is a frequent complaint by borrowers who, like the
homeowners mentioned here, have sought adjustments through the
U.S. Treasury Department’s Home Affordable Modification Program,
or  HAMP .  In this case, the couple had been told they were approved
for a permanent modification, only to be informed by letter
they’d been rejected. Why? The servicer said they had failed to
sign and return documents the couple says they never received.  What Servicers Want  These are among complaints piling into the Troubled Asset
Relief Program, which administers HAMP and other programs aimed
at helping homeowners. These cases are among examples quoted in
the Special Inspector General’s  report  to Congress this week,
which slammed HAMP.  A cynic might conclude from these and similar horror
stories that abound in the  news  that servicers are simply
milking as much money from the borrower as they can before
taking the house, which they knew they would do all along.  As long as they keep the payments coming, the servicer gets
paid as well as the investor.  For some homeowners who don’t get permanent relief, they
lose more than the house and the money they’d been laying out
for the adjusted mortgage payments. Even if they paid the
modified trial sums on time, they get hit with late fees for not
making the full, pre-adjusted payments during that period.  That’s right. They get penalized for doing what they
thought they were supposed to be doing.  ‘Anger and Mistrust’  Plus, servicers can tack on other fees and charges.
Homeowners can end up with more principal owed after going
through a government-backed program meant to help them, and less
ability to pay it.  About 467,000 homeowners have permanent HAMP mortgage
adjustments, which last for five years. When it began in 2009,
the program aimed to help 3 million to 4 million borrowers.  “A program that began with much promise now must be
counted among those that risk generating public anger and
mistrust,” the inspector general’s report says.  About 700,000, or roughly half, of the trial modifications
were cancelled, with another 173,000 in limbo, according to the
report.  To be sure, HAMP and the servicers can’t be blamed for all
of the failures. And some who didn’t get permanent HAMP
modifications got adjustments from banks or otherwise were able
to keep their homes.  Plus, as Treasury points out, the program aided in less
measurable ways. HAMP set standards for debt-to-income ratios
and market value to mortgage value, which have helped private
lenders decide whether and how to modify mortgages.  What Treasury Does  But you can’t explain away so many stories of borrowers
following program guidelines and making payments, only to see
their home taken away, anyway. And what about complaint after
complaint that no matter how often they submitted paperwork, no
matter how much proof of delivery resulted, they were told that
their documents had been lost? Sounds like a stall to me.  So, what does Treasury do in the face of such failure? It
declares success.  “While many of these borrowers did not convert to
permanent modifications, they were afforded much needed
breathing room,” Phyllis Caldwell, the chief of the Treasury
Department’s Homeownership Preservation Office,  told  Congress
this week.  With more homeowners staying put longer, perhaps in hopes
of landing a job, neighborhoods and the housing market didn’t
experience the degree of instability they otherwise would have.  Hence, failure is actually a success.  Blaming the Borrower  Banks caught forging signatures on  foreclosure  documents
and claiming ownership of mortgages that aren’t theirs like to
shift attention to the deadbeat homeowner. They were going to be
foreclosed on, anyway, so what’s the big deal about sloppy
paperwork?  They promised to make payments and didn’t. They violated
their contracts with lenders. They got what was coming to them,
the banks are essentially saying.  But banks, too, made certain promises. Those that took in
billions of dollars in TARP funds were contractually obligated
to help homeowners, participate in HAMP and follow its rules. It
looks like they haven’t.  When will the banks and their loan servicers get what is
coming to them?  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  