-- Total Profit Climbs 32% as Fields Come On Stream, Price of Oil Increases
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-29T06:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/total-profit-climbs-32-as-fields-come-on-stream-price-of-oil-increases.html
Total SA , France’s largest oil
company, said third-quarter  profit  rose 32 percent on higher
production after new fields were started.  Profit  excluding changes in inventories and the value of a
stake in  Sanofi-Aventis SA  rose to 2.48 billion euros ($3.44
billion) from 1.87 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said today in a statement. That beat the 2.43 billion-
euro average of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income
rose 47 percent to 2.83 billion euros.  Third quarter production rose 4.3 percent to 2.34 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day compared with a year earlier,
according to the statement.  The rise in profit and output “confirms the momentum,”
Chief Executive Officer  Christophe de Margerie  said in the
statement.  Total has reversed a slump in production that touched a
nine-year low last year by starting fields in Nigeria, the Gulf
of Mexico, Angola and Norway, as well as liquefied natural-gas
projects in Yemen and Qatar. The Paris-based oil company expects
production to be little changed next year because of a lull in
new startups and has pledged to explore more aggressively in
frontier regions to boost future output.  Total has forecast average production growth of 2 percent a
year through 2014 and said it would increase exploration through
22 “promising prospects” to be drilled by the end of 2012.  The French oil company last week announced an agreement to
buy a 60 percent stake in the Ivory Coast CI-100 deepwater
exploration license from Yam’s Petroleum.  Clov Development  Total sanctioned investment in the Clov development off
Angola and said final investment decisions could come for Ofon
II and the Gladstone LNG venture this year. Engina in Nigeria
could come at the start of 2011, while the company has also said
it could sanction Sulige in China, Ichthys LNG in Australia,
Shtokman in Russia and Ahnet in Algeria.  The French company has announced $6 billion in  acquisitions 
since the start of the year and $4 billion in asset sales,
according to a presentation last month.  In addition to buying a stake in Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s
U.S. shale gas assets, Total has announced the acquisition of 20
percent of an LNG project fed by methane trapped in coal seams
in Australia’s Queensland state and is completing the purchase
of Canadian oil sands company UTS Energy Corp.  Oil futures averaged $76.21 a barrel in the quarter, a 12
percent increase from a year earlier, and natural-gas futures
rose 23 percent.  Improved Margins  Total has benefited from improved refining margins. Profit
from turning crude into fuel rose to $16.40 a ton compared with
$12 a ton a year ago, the company said earlier this month.  Total shut down all five of its active refineries in France
due to a strike by oil workers this month over a government plan
to overhaul the country’s pension system. The labor action was
the second this year led by the CGT union, the biggest among
refinery workers.  Total has plans to reduce its refining capacity by about
one-fifth, or 500,000 barrels a day, between 2007 and 2011.
About 85 percent of its 2.6 million-barrel-a-day capacity is in
Western Europe.  The goal to sell its Lindsey refinery and U.K. marketing
business is part of the restructuring that could also see
development of downstream activities in countries where there is
growth, de Margerie has said.  Total wants to reach an agreement to sell Lindsey by the
end of the year, he said last month, adding that the oil company
has received several offers for the 221,000 barrel-a-day oil-
processing plant in northeast England.  Total also plans to dismantle its Flanders refinery near
Dunkirk, France.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s  largest oil company ,
yesterday posted earnings that beat analyst estimates for the
third straight quarter while Exxon Mobil Corp. reported its
largest third-quarter profit increase in six years as rising
worldwide energy demand listed commodity prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  