-- Overnight Rates Soaring to 13% on Shortage of Peso Bills: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-29T14:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/overnight-rates-soar-to-13-on-shortage-of-peso-bills-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s overnight loan rate
between banks is rising the most in two years as inflation
quickens and speculation grows that lenders are facing a
shortage of peso bills.  The one-day interbank rate jumped 200 basis points last
week, the most since October 2008, to 13 percent, an 18-month
high, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South America’s second-biggest economy is growing at the
fastest pace in five years, boosting demand for pesos, the
central bank said Oct. 13. At 13 percent, Argentina’s loan rate
is 225 basis points, or 2.25 percentage points, higher than
Brazil’s and compares with key rates of 1 percent or lower in
the U.S., Japan and Europe. Month-end demand for cash to pay
workers and retirees is exacerbating the shortage of pesos, said
 Federico Sturzenegger , president of Banco de la Ciudad de Buenos
Aires.  “The central bank can’t keep up with the rising
circulation needs,” Sturzenegger said. “Banks are using bills
for longer periods of time and putting worn-out notes into
automatic-teller machines.”  Speculation the central bank’s printing press is failing to
keep up with demand grew after Buenos Aires-based newspapers
Ambito Financiero, La Nacion and Clarin reported on the shortage
this month.  Some bankers may be stockpiling cash on speculation that
there may be a bill shortage in the future, said a central bank
official who declined to be identified in accordance with
policy. While the central bank has slowed the pace at which it
removes and destroys old bills to help meet a seasonal spike in
demand, its printing presses are running at full capacity and
guaranteeing supply, he said.  ‘Dynamic’ Expansion  The interbank rate, also known as the call money rate, fell
75 basis points yesterday to 12.25 percent. It’s up from 10.08
percent on Sept. 28, as the central bank forecasts the economy
will grow about 9 percent this year, the most since 2005.  “The increasingly dynamic economic expansion has continued
to boost the demand for money from the private sector,” the
 central bank  said in a monthly report released Oct. 13.  The economic expansion is also sparking a surge in consumer
prices. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates inflation in
Argentina is about 25 percent, more than double the government’s
11.1 percent rate.  Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos  have questioned official inflation statistics since 2007,
when then-President  Nestor Kirchner  made personnel changes at
the national statistics institute. Kirchner, who died Oct. 27,
and President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  have said the
government data is accurate.  New Bill  Pablo Verani , an Argentine senator from the Radical Civic
Union opposition party, this week presented a plan to introduce
a 200-peso bill to combat the erosion of purchasing power caused
by inflation and mark the nation’s bicentennial. The 100-peso
bill has been the largest note in circulation since Argentina
introduced the currency in January 1992.  “My plan is related to comfort,” Verani said. “If you go
to a supermarket with 100 pesos now, you buy about 20 percent of
what you bought three years ago.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed eight basis points to
520 as of 9:59 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. It tumbled 49 on Oct. 27 after the death of Kirchner spurred
speculation that the nation’s statistical reporting will become
more transparent.  Money Supply  The  cost  of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 34 basis points
yesterday to 613, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy rose 0.15 cent today to 13.23 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso was little changed at 3.9590 per U.S. dollar.  The central bank, which is fueling money supply growth by
selling pesos for dollars to weaken the currency and shore up
exports, raised its 2010 monetary growth targets on Aug. 26 to
29.4 percent from 19 percent. Foreign reserves rose to a record
$51.8 billion on Oct. 25.  Juan Carlos Nougues , president of Buenos Aires-based Banco
Supervielle SA, said his bank is not struggling with a shortage
of bills.  “Our bank hasn’t had problems obtaining bills,” he said
in an e-mailed response to questions. “The rise in the call
rate doesn’t seem significant to me.”  ‘Psychological’  The rate should fall by early next month as salaries are
paid out, said  Fernando Izzo , a currency trader at ABC Mercado
de Cambio in Buenos Aires.  “They say there is a lack of bills, that there is
inflation and that the central bank can’t print notes fast
enough,” he said. “It’s a bit psychological.”  A lack of bills, mainly 100-peso notes, led the central
bank to remove fewer pesos from the system during this week’s
auction of short-term notes known as lebacs and nobacs, said
 Camilo Tiscornia , a former central bank economist who is now an
analyst at research company C&T Asesores in Buenos Aires.  The sale of notes this week tumbled to 948 million pesos
($239.5 million) from 3.6 billion pesos last week, according to
the central bank.  “If the banks fear that they will run out of bills, they
will hold on to more currency, which implies there is less
supply of cash in the interbank market, pushing up the call
money rate,” Tiscornia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net 
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  