-- Palocci Seen as `Card Up' Rousseff's Sleeve If She Wins Brazilian Election
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2010-10-29T19:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/palocci-seen-as-card-up-rousseff-s-sleeve-if-she-wins-brazilian-election.html
In a likely  Dilma Rousseff 
government, former Brazilian Finance Minister  Antonio Palocci 
will be a “card up her sleeve,” possibly serving as Cabinet
chief, Bahia state governor  Jacques Wagner  said.  Wagner, a former minister in President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s government, said Palocci stands out for his skills in
both economic management and political negotiations. Wagner is a
leading Workers’ Party politician in the Northeast region, where
Rousseff draws her strongest support, and was reelected Oct. 3
to governor of Brazil’s fourth-most populous state.  “Palocci is the one everybody considers a card up her
sleeve. He’s competent, he has good relations with parties and
the political and business sectors,” Wagner said in a telephone
interview from Bahia. Other possible positions for Palocci are
planning or heath minister, Wagner said.  If elected, Rousseff may retain some ministers from Lula’s
government, such as Planning Minister  Paulo Bernardo , Wagner
said.  Luciano Coutinho , president of the country’s development
bank, known as BNDES, could head a ministry, Wagner said.  Officials who played major roles in her campaign may also
occupy posts in a Rousseff government, Wagner said.  Alexandre Padilha , Lula’s institutional relations minister, and the
Finance Ministry’s economic policy secretary,  Nelson Barbosa ,
joined the campaign leadership between the Oct. 3 first round of
the election and the Oct. 31 runoff.  Rousseff’s lead over rival  Jose Serra  fell to 10 percentage
points from 11 points in a Datafolha survey taken Oct. 28 and
published today. Support for the  Workers’ Party ’s candidate
increased to 50 percent from 49 percent in the previous
Datafolha survey, published Oct. 27, while Serra’s backing rose
to 40 percent from 38 percent. The survey of 4,205 people had a
margin of error of two percentage points.  The real was little changed at 1.7052 per dollar at 3:07
p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Simoes  in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  