-- Pemex Increases Production Forecast for Chicontepec by 15% for Next Year
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2010-10-29T17:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/pemex-performance-based-contracts-to-be-ready-in-weeks-morales.html
Petroleos Mexicanos, Latin America’s
largest oil producer, increased its estimate for Chicontepec’s
2011 production to “around 70,000” barrels a day, 15 percent
higher than the previous forecast.  The oil company based in Mexico City “will continue
increasing production” after it reaches the new output
estimate,  Carlos Morales , the company’s head of exploration and
production, said today on a conference call with investors.  After output targets were missed in December, Pemex slashed
Chicontepec’s drilling program by 60 percent for next year and
earmarked the majority of the field’s 21-billion peso ($1.7
billion) budget for research on the field, Chief Executive
Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said on Oct. 1.  The increase in production at Chicontepec will allow Pemex
to have “slightly” higher output in 2011 compared with this
year, Morales said. Pemex aims to begin a trend of increased
production in the next few years, he said.  Chicontepec is a field with small pockets of oil and low
pressure spread across the states of Puebla, Hidalgo and
Veracruz near the Gulf of Mexico.  Morales said that performance-based contracts for
exploration and production in mature fields should be approved
“within weeks” by the company and its board members.  Pemex said yesterday its third-quarter net loss narrowed to
2.8 billion pesos from a loss of 3.7 billion in the previous
year.  Also on today’s conference call, Guillermo Ruiz, Pemex’s
deputy director of operations, said the company expects early
next year to complete repairs at its Cadereyta refinery. The
plant’s hydrotreater unit was damaged in a Sept. 7 explosion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Manuel Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 