-- Pennsylvania Capital Will Skip $6.2 Million in 2003 Series Bond Payments
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-29T18:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/pennsylvania-capital-will-skip-6-2-million-in-2003-series-bond-payments.html
Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , capital of
the sixth-most populous U.S. state, will miss $6.2 million in
payments on 2003 Series bonds it guaranteed on behalf of the
Harrisburg Authority, according to notices to the bond trustee.  The city of 47,000, which has sought oversight and funds
under a state program for financially distressed communities,
was scheduled to make the payments on the authority’s 2003 debt
to the bonds’ trustee on Oct. 31, according to the notices.
Bondholders are supposed to get the payments Dec. 1.  Harrisburg also won’t cover $1.2 million in payments due
Nov. 1 to holders of the authority’s $17 million in 2002A Series
bonds,  Chuck Ardo , spokesman for Mayor  Linda Thompson , said
today by e-mail.  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.  will cover the Nov. 1
payments and any unpaid amount out of $1.7 million due Dec. 1 to
holders of the $9.8 million in 2003 Series F bonds, the
Hamilton, Bermuda-based insurer said in an e-mailed comment.  Harrisburg hasn’t paid off on guarantees for about $8
million in bond payments this year. The city backed $282 million
in authority debt, issued in connection with a waste-to-energy
incinerator. On Oct. 26, the city notified  TD Wealth Management ,
the trustee for the 2003 bonds, of its plans to miss the
December payments, according to letters from the mayor’s office.  Payments Precluded  “The city’s current financial situation precludes us from
making any transfer to you to cure this debt service deficiency
at this time,”  Robert Kroboth , Thompson’s interim chief of
staff and business administrator, said in the notices to TD
Wealth, a unit of  Toronto-Dominion Bank . “The city is
developing a comprehensive plan to meet its debt obligations in
the near future.”  Harrisburg may not be able to meet its payroll and owes
vendors almost $2 million. Along with applying for state
oversight and aid under the Act 47 program, the city has
considered seeking bankruptcy court protection from creditors.
The incinerator authority doesn’t generate enough revenue to pay
both its operating expenses and the debt service on its bonds.  Harrisburg has been sued for missing payments by Dauphin
County, which encompasses the city and was a co-guarantor on the
$96.5 million in 2003 Series D and $4.4 million in series E
bonds. Assured, which has said it backs payments on about $195
million of the authority debt, also has taken the city to court.  Covanta Holding Corp ., the Fairfield, New Jersey-based
operator of the incinerator, has begun a lawsuit against
Harrisburg because it skipped $1.9 million in payments owed this
year on an operating advance.  Assured Downgraded  Assured, which lost its top AAA rating in a Standard &
Poor’s downgrade to AA+ on Oct. 25, has paid at least $1.3
million on the bonds for the city, according to the company.  Pennsylvania’s Community and Economic Development
Department is scheduled to decide by Nov. 20 whether Harrisburg
qualifies for Act 47 help as a distressed city, Jamie Yates, a
spokeswoman for the department, said today by telephone.  State analysts have recommended a declaration of Harrisburg
as a distressed community, because the city may not be able to
pay its employees or contribute to its pension fund. The
designation is a prerequisite to obtaining Act 47 oversight and
financial assistance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  