-- Peru's Sol Posts Biggest Monthly Decline Since October '09 on Central Bank
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-10-29T19:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/peru-s-sol-has-biggest-monthly-fall-since-october-2009-on-central-bank.html
Peru’s sol had its biggest monthly
drop since 2009 after the central bank took steps to stem
capital inflows that drove the currency to a two-year high.  The sol weakened 0.4 percent this month to 2.7985 per U.S.
dollar at 3:16 p.m. New York time, from 2.7861 on Sept. 30. The
currency gained 0.1 percent today. It dropped 0.9 percent in
October 2009.  Peru’s central bank increased  dollar purchases  and doubled
the marginal reserve requirement for foreign banks’ deposits
last month, after rising interest rates triggered a surge in
inflows. The bank has purchased almost $9 billion this year,
including $1.91 billion in September, the most since March 2008.
It also introduced new securities redeemable in dollars on Oct.
20, helping to cool demand for soles and curtail currency
speculation, said  Pedro Tuesta , senior Latin America economist
at 4Cast Inc.  “Peru’s central bank has been the most aggressive by far
with market intervention,” Tuesta said. “You don’t see upside,
so you don’t bet on the currency. You don’t see upside because
of the aggressiveness of the central bank,” he said.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 8.6 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2017 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 4.85 percent today, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s
local unit. The bond’s yield fell 17 basis points this month.  Limit Gains  The central bank is ready to implement other measures to
prevent any new surge in inflows from pressuring the sol, said
 Renzo Rossini , the bank’s general manager, on Oct. 14. Those
comments have helped limit the sol’s gains, even though the
central bank reduced its dollar purchases this month, said
 Roberto Flores , an economist at Inteligo SAB in Lima.  “This, coupled with concrete measures in Brazil, the
increased noise in general and expectations that central banks
will become a little more aggressive to slow the appreciation of
their currencies, is what has kept the sol stable, and with a
tendency to weaken,” Flores said.  The Andean country’s banking regulator will impose a limit
on banks’ dollar forward holdings next month as part of efforts
by policy makers to ensure Peru has a “measured” currency,
Superintendent  Felipe Tam Fox  said in an interview in Lima
yesterday.  Peruvian banks’ net forward positions are all below the
proposed limit of 25 percent of their assets, he said.  “It’s better to put a barrier. It’s a precautionary
measure,” Tam Fox said. “It’s not a coercive measure to oblige
them to sell or pressure them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  