-- TPG to Invest More in Emerging Markets Such as Turkey, Brazil, Indonesia
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-10-29T03:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/tpg-to-invest-more-in-emerging-markets-such-as-turkey-brazil-indonesia.html
TPG Capital, the private-equity firm
that manages $47 billion, said it plans to make more investments
in companies in the developing world, including  PT Bank Tabungan
Pensiunan Nasional , which it controls in Indonesia.  “Private-equity investing will become much more dominated
by emerging markets,” said  Ashish Shastry , TPG’s head of
Southeast Asia in Singapore. “That’s true in our firm, that’s
true across the various activities we’re seeing.”  The proportion of investors in private-equity funds that
are considering putting money into emerging markets rose to
about 72 percent in June, from 67 percent in December, according
to a survey by London-based researcher Preqin Ltd. About 56
percent said Asia presented the best investment opportunities
among emerging markets, while 37 percent named China and 25
percent picked India, according to Preqin’s  quarterly report 
published in July.  The “greater emerging market stories in the next decade”
will be Turkey, Brazil, Indonesia, Vietnam and Eastern Europe,
Shastry said yesterday at a private-equity conference organized
by Singapore Management University.  “If you are talking about China and India today, you are
about 15 years too late,” Shastry said. “We always
oversimplify and talk about the two big countries.”  ‘Good’ Returns  TPG invested about $1.1 billion in Southeast Asia from 2005
to 2009, accounting for about 30 percent of the capital that the
Fort Worth, Texas-based firm spent on the whole of Asia, Shastry
said.  “Our returns have been good,” he said, without providing
details.  The firm agreed in March to sell its 24 percent stake in
Singapore-based  Parkway Holdings Ltd. , Asia’s biggest hospital
operator, for S$959 million ($739 million).  TPG, run by billionaire David Bonderman, plans to put more
money in Bank Tabungan, which opened about 550 branches in 18
months as it expanded into micro-lending, Shastry said. The
Indonesian bank was originally a lender to retired civil
servants.  “This is a business that’s all about growth,” he said.
“We’re going to have to put more money in because the bank has
run out of capital, they’re growing so fast.”  Rights Offer  Bank Tabungan  shares  rose to a record yesterday after it
said on Oct. 26 it plans to raise 1.32 trillion rupiah ($148
million) in a December rights offer to boost capital and expand
lending.  “The most interesting investment themes in the emerging
markets will focus on consumption and natural resources,”
Shastry said.  TPG and BankInvest, a Danish investment fund, bought a $50
million stake a year ago in  Masan Group Corp. , a Vietnamese food
and financial services company.  Masan said yesterday net profit in the first nine months
almost tripled to 573 billion dong ($29 million). The stock has
gained 64 percent this year, compared with a 9 percent decline
in Vietnam’s benchmark VN Index.  London-based CVC Capital Partners Ltd.’s 7.2 trillion
rupiah acquisition of the retail unit of Indonesia’s PT Matahari
Putra Prima was the biggest private-equity transaction in Asia
in the first half of the year, according to the Center for Asia
Private Equity Research in Hong Kong.  The renewed focus on private-equity deals in emerging
markets is here to stay because of their “deeper pool of
labor,” savings and natural resources, Shastry said.  “This a secular trend, not a cyclical trend,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  