-- Orlen of Poland Sees `Very Good' 4th Quarter After Reporting 86% Ebit Jump
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-10-29T09:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/pkn-orlen-third-quarter-profit-rises-to-432-8-million-on-increased-volume.html
PKN Orlen SA , Poland’s largest oil
refiner, forecast today that earnings before interest and taxes
will be “very good” in the fourth quarter, after profit
increased 86 percent in the previous period.  “We hope that the operating profit will be at a very good
level,” in the fourth quarter, Jacek Krawiec, the chief
executive officer, told  Radio PiN  in an interview today. He
declined to comment further.  Profit, or Ebit, rose to 788.6 million zloty ($274 million)
in the third-quarter from 423 million zloty last year as sales
volumes in its retail, petrochemical, and refining segments
improved, Orlen said in a regulatory statement.  “Retail and petchem segments are very strong legs of PKN
and should deliver solid results over the forthcoming
quarters,” Pawel Burzynski, an analyst at Bank Zachodni WBK SA
who has a “buy” recommendation on the stock, wrote in a note
today.  In a  website presentation  today the company said that its
model refining margin widened to $4.1 a barrel from $3.1 a
barrel in the third quarter.  Net income in the third quarter increased to 1.24 billion
zloty from 930.6 million zloty a year earlier as the
strengthening zloty cut the cost of foreign-currency denominated
loans.  That compares with the 1.14 billion-zloty mean estimate of
eight  analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg and is in line with the
preliminary earnings statement announced by the company last
week.  “The results show that the company is continuing on its
way to debt reduction and improvement of operating efficiency,”
Philipp Chladek, an analyst at Raiffeisen Centrobank AG, wrote
in a research note.  Debt  Plock, central Poland-based Orlen is in the process of
reducing its  debt  to free cash for investments in oil drilling
projects and power plants. The company cut net borrowing to 9.9
billion zloty AS OS sept. 30 from 13.7 billion zloty a year
earlier. To further reduce the debt PKN plans a second sale of
its mandatory oil reserves this year, raising “close to” 1
billion zloty, Krawiec said today.  Orlen is also selling its 24 percent stake in Polkomtel SA,
Poland’s largest mobile-phone company. It plans to complete the
transaction in the first half of 2011 as all shareholders, which
include  Vodafone Plc , are participating in the sale, Chief
Financial Officer Slawomir Jedrzejczyk said on a conference call
from Warsaw today.  -- Editors: Chris Peterson, Tim Farrand  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  