-- Russia Will Raise Gas Supplies to Poland as Gazprom, Gornictwo Sign Deal
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o
-- 2010-10-29T10:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/poland-russia-sign-agreement-to-increase-extend-gas-supplies.html
Poland and Russia today signed a
natural gas supply agreement in Warsaw following almost two
years of negotiations, increasing deliveries by as much as 38
percent.  Under the new deal  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo
SA,  Poland’s dominant gas company, known as PGNiG, will be able
to buy as much as 10.2 billion cubic meters a year from Russia’s
gas exporter  OAO Gazprom . This increased the volume from 7.45
billion cubic meters in the previous contract, the Warsaw-based
company said in a regulatory statement today.  PGNiG  values the agreement at about 8.5 billion zloty
($2.94 billion) annually at current prices, on which the
contract is based. The company may save as much as $250 million
by the end of 2014 if it uses the full discount offered by
Gazprom, the Polish company said.  Both governments and the companies have been negotiating
the contract since February 2009, when RosUkrEnergo AG, the gas
trader 50 percent owned by Gazprom, stopped deliveries to Poland
following a dispute between Russia and Ukraine. RosUkrEnergo was
contracted to ship 2.3 billion cubic meters a year to Poland.  Gazprom and PGNiG already reached an agreement on the
contract in January this year and its signing was delayed after
the European Union said it was assessing the deal’s compliance
with EU rules on pipeline management,access for third parties
and pricing.  Poland, which will use about 14 billion cubic meters this
year, will buy 9 billion cubic meters of the fuel from Russia in
2010 and 9.77 billion cubic meters next year, PGNiG said in the
statement. For the remaining part of gas needs the country
relies on domestic resources and imports from Germany.  The country is building a liquefied natural gas terminal on
the Baltic Sea, which will be able to process as much as 5
billion cubic meters a year, starting in 2014. Additionally it
counts on its shale and tight gas resources, after it sold about
60 exploration licenses to companies including Exxon Mobil
Corp., Chevron Corp. and Marathon Oil Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Espino in Warsaw 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  