-- Poll: Americans Don't Know Economy Expanded With Tax Cuts
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-10-29T15:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/poll-shows-americans-don-t-know-economy-expanded-with-tax-cuts.html
The Obama administration cut taxes
for middle-class Americans, expects to make a profit on the
hundreds of billions of dollars spent to rescue Wall Street
banks and has overseen an economy that has grown for the past
five quarters.  Most voters don’t believe it.  A Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct. 24-26 finds that
by a two-to-one margin, likely voters in the Nov. 2 midterm
elections think taxes have gone up, the economy has shrunk, and
the billions lent to banks as part of the Troubled Asset Relief
Program won’t be recovered.  “The public view of the economy is at odds with the facts,
and the blame has to go to the Democrats,” said J.  Ann Selzer ,
president of  Selzer & Co. , a Des Moines, Iowa-based firm that
conducted the nationwide survey. “It does not matter much if
you make change, if you do not communicate change.”  The Obama administration has cut taxes -- largely for the
middle class -- by $240 billion since taking office on Jan. 20,
2009. A program aimed at families earning less than $150,000
that was contained in the stimulus package lowered the burden
for 95 percent of working Americans by $116 billion, or about
$400 per year for individuals and $800 for married couples.
Other measures include breaks for college education, moderate-
income families and the  unemployed  and incentives to promote
renewable energy.  Not Getting Through  Still, the poll shows the message hasn’t gotten through to
Americans, especially middle-income voters. By 52 percent to 19
percent, likely voters say federal income taxes have gone up for
the middle class in the past two years.  “He’s all about raising taxes,” says poll respondent
Jeanette Bagley, 74, a retired home health aide in a suburb of
St. Paul, Minnesota. “He’s all about big government and big
spending.”  The view that taxes have gone up is shared by a majority of
almost all demographic groups, including 50 percent of
independent voters, among the linchpins of Obama’s victory in
the  2008 election .  Even a plurality of Democrats, 43 percent, holds this
misperception. Overall, 63 percent of those who earn $25,000 to
$49,999 say taxes have gone up, compared with 45 percent of
those who earn $100,000 or more.  Republican Advantage  The poll demonstrates the tough odds for Democrats heading
into the midterms. Republicans are poised to retake the U.S.
House next week with a 47 percent to 44 percent edge among
likely voters. Independents are driving the Republican
advantage.  The heart of Obama’s voting base and the group he’s
tailored most of his policies to, middle-income earners -- or
those who make $25,000 to $49,999 -- feel more pinched by taxes,
are gloomier about economic growth and more pessimistic the tax
dollars lent to Wall Street banks will ever be repaid than their
higher-income-earning counterparts.  In an October  report  to Congress, released as TARP turned
two years old, the  Treasury  said it had recovered most of the
$245 billion spent on the Wall Street bank part of the rescue,
and expects to turn a $16 billion profit. In the Bloomberg poll,
60 percent of respondents say they believe most of the TARP
money to the banks is lost and only 33 percent say most of the
funds will be recovered.  “Anything that ever needs to be paid back it’s ‘let’s go
after the middle class,’” says poll respondent Judith Ann
Micone, a 55-year-old cosmetologist and Republican from
Kalispell, Montana.  Women More Skeptical  Women are slightly more skeptical than men that the funds
will be recovered. Independents and Republicans are
overwhelmingly skeptical. Even Democrats are mostly doubtful,
with 48 percent saying the money will be lost, compared with 41
percent who say it will be recovered.  Separate from the aid for the Wall Street banks, the
Treasury says the payouts for insurers such as New York-based
 American International Group Inc.  will end with a small loss on
investment, as will the bailout for automakers. Only the
assistance to mortgage lenders, projected to reach about $45
billion, will never be repaid, Treasury says.  The perceptions of voters about the performance of the
economy are also at odds with official data. The recession that
began in December 2007 officially ended in June 2009, making the
18-month stretch the longest since the Great Depression.  Economy Grows Again  Today, the Commerce Department reported the economy grew at
a 2 percent annual rate in the third quarter as consumer
spending climbed the most in almost four years, a sign the
expansion is developing staying power. In the past year, the
economy has grown 3.1 percent.  The third-quarter growth matched the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a 1.7 percent
gain the prior three months. Household purchases, about 70
percent of the economy, rose at a 2.6 percent pace, the best
quarter of the recovery that began in June 2009.  Voters aren’t seeing the better climate: 61 percent of poll
respondents say the economy is shrinking this year, compared
with 33 percent who say it is growing.  Charlene Miller, a 58-year-old unemployed nursery worker
from Waterview, Maryland, said her impression is shaped by the
state of  jobs  and wages and the fact that she’s been unemployed
for two years.  Jobs Going Overseas  “We’re sending too many jobs overseas and not paying
Americans for their work,” says Miller, an independent who
voted for Obama.  Older voters are more likely to view the economy
negatively, with 69 percent of those age 55 and older saying it
is shrinking, compared with 48 percent of voters under 35 who
say so. For those 65 and older, it’s 71 percent. Those who earn
less than $50,000 are more likely to view the economy negatively
than those who earn more.  The Bloomberg National Poll, which included interviews with
1,000 likely voters in the November 2010 general election, has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  The impressions of these voters also are dissonant with
other signs of economic improvement.  A year and a half after  U.S. stocks  hit their post-
financial-crisis low on March 9, 2009, the benchmark Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has risen 75 percent, and it’s up 15 percent
for this year.  Jobless Rate Dominates  The unemployment rate that’s hovered at or above 9.5
percent for 14 months is crowding out any positive news, said
 Bruce Oppenheimer , a political science professor at Vanderbilt
University in Nashville.  “It spreads a dark cloud across anything else that you’re
doing,” Oppenheimer said. “This won’t be a good election for
Democrats.”  The poll reveals the failure of the Democrats to
communicate their achievements even within their own party and
the opposition’s triumph in painting the Obama administration as
a failure, particularly on economic issues.  “The administration has said for a long time that the best
politics was doing the right thing,” says  Steve McMahon , a
Democratic strategist. “It requires a lot more. These numbers
show that the best politics is selling what you’re doing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 