-- Post-Lula Inflation Concerns Spark CPI-Linked Bond Advance: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-29T14:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/post-lula-inflation-concerns-spark-cpi-linked-bond-advance-brazil-credit.html
Concern is growing that President
 Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s successor will fail to keep  consumer
prices  in check, trading in Brazil’s bond market shows.  Investor expectations for inflation, implied by the
difference between the government’s two-year inflation-linked
bonds and fixed-rate notes, rose to 648 basis points, or 6.48
percentage points this week, the highest since December 2008,
from 541 basis points on June 28. The gap, known as the
breakeven rate, compares with 388 basis points in Mexico, Latin
America’s second-biggest economy after Brazil.  While countries from the U.S. to Japan are considering
measures to fend off deflation as the global economy slows,
investors are betting the inflation rate in Brazil will hold
above the government’s 4.5 percent target unless policy makers
curb spending or raise interest rates.  Dilma Rousseff , who is
leading in polls ahead of the Oct. 31 election runoff, called
reducing spending a “crime” in an August television interview.  “The market doesn’t have a very strong belief that the
next government will act on the fiscal side to contain public
spending,” said  Marcelo Schmitt , a fixed-income portfolio
manager at SulAmerica Investimentos in Sao Paulo, who bought
inflation-linked bonds three months ago. “The market is
expecting more inflationary pressure lasting for longer periods,
extending throughout 2011.”  Yields on Brazil’s 6 percent notes due in August 2012 that
offer protection against inflation fell 41 basis points this
month to 5.52 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yields on the 10 percent fixed-rate notes due in January 2013
declined 4 basis points to 11.97 percent.  Unemployment, Wages  Economists forecast growth of 7.55 percent this year, the
most in over two decades, according to a central bank survey of
about 100 financial institutions released this week. The  jobless
rate  fell to a record low in September and average inflation-
adjusted wages rose 6.2 percent over the past 12 months to 1,499
reais ($881), the statistics agency said last week.  Annual  inflation  will quicken to 5.3 percent by December
from 5 percent in mid-October and 4.3 percent at the end of
2009, according to the central bank’s survey of economists. The
median forecast a week earlier was 5.2 percent.  Policy makers, led by central bank President  Henrique Meirelles , held the benchmark overnight rate at 10.75 percent
for a second straight meeting on Oct. 20 after  raising  it 200
basis points earlier in the year. The bank said in minutes
released yesterday from the meeting that its “prevailing
understanding” is that inflation will converge toward the 4.5
percent target. That forecast “hinges on the fiscal and credit
trajectories with which the monetary policy committee works,”
policy makers said.  Rising Spending  Investors are becoming concerned that policy makers aren’t
doing enough, said  Nick Chamie , the global head of emerging
markets at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.  “By most accounts it seems as if the central bank should
be tightening the policy and they’re not and that’s most
people’s concern, that Meirelles is eager not to upset his new
bosses,” Chamie said in a telephone interview. “We’re starting
to see a rise in inflation premium locally.”  The central bank declined to comment yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  Lula’s government boosted spending 18.2 percent in July
from a year earlier, helping push the  budget deficit  to the
equivalent of 3.4 percent of gross domestic product from 1.3
percent in October 2008.  Rousseff , Lula’s former cabinet chief and energy minister,
tripled her lead over opposition rival  Jose Serra  four days
ahead of the runoff vote, a Sensus poll showed.  Widening Lead  Support for Rousseff rose to 51.9 percent from 46.8 percent
in the previous Sensus poll taken Oct. 18-19. Support for Serra,
a 68-year-old former Sao Paulo governor, declined to 36.7
percent from 41.8 percent, according to the poll of 2,000 people
nationwide. The survey has a margin of error of 2.2 percentage
points.  In the first-round vote on Oct. 3, Rousseff took 47 percent
of the vote while Serra won 33 percent.  Rousseff, 62, said on Oct. 21 that the economy can expand
7.5 percent a year while keeping inflation under control.
Speaking to reporters in the coastal city of Porto Alegre,
Rousseff said the country was “technically” at full-employment
and that inflation has to be kept “strictly under control.”  Rousseff’s campaign staff didn’t reply to questions sent by
e-mail.  ‘Inflation Credibility’  The increase in inflation expectations will probably halt
as the new administration takes over next year, said  Guillermo Osses , who helps oversee $50 billion in emerging-market assets
at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,
California.  “In the longer run, it will depend on the policy mix
adopted by the new economic team and new central bank
authorities,” Osses said. “But we think they do understand the
benefit that inflation credibility has for the economy and for
their own political future.”  Inflation has slowed from a high of 17 percent in Lula’s
first year in office in 2003, helping the economy maintain an
average annual growth rate of 3.4 percent and lift 21 million
people out of poverty, according to the Rio de Janeiro-based
Getulio Vargas Foundation.  Yields on interest-rate futures due in January 2012 fell
three basis points to 11.33 percent, signaling traders expect
the central bank will raise the benchmark rate to about 12.25
percent by then, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Real’s Rally  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point to 173,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell one basis point to
99, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real gained 0.2 percent to 1.7013 versus the dollar by
10:22 a.m. in New York.  Record-low interest rates in the U.S., Japan and Europe are
fueling demand for Brazilian fixed-income assets, helping push
the real to 1.6442 per dollar on Oct. 14, the strongest level
since September 2008. The Finance Ministry tripled a tax on
foreigners’ purchases of fixed-income assets this month to 6
percent to curb the currency rally and shore up exports.  Money Supply  The central bank bought $4.2 billion in the first half of
October after tripling purchases to $10.8 billion in September
to weaken the real, according to data on the bank’s website.  Those purchases are injecting reais into the economy,
adding to inflation even as the central bank seeks to drain the
cash back out, RBC’s Chamie said. Annual money supply growth, as
measured by the  M1 monetary  aggregate, quickened to 19.8 percent
in August from 12 percent at the end of last year, according to
data compiled by Banco Central do Brasil.  The “central bank has been intervening very hard and
sterilization efforts aren’t very helpful,” Chamie said. “It
generates money supply growth and as a result that’s going to
add to inflation concerns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at   yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  