-- Pot Taxes on Ballots in California Cities as Legalization Looms
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-10-29T13:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/pot-taxes-on-ballots-in-california-cities-as-legalization-looms.html
Oakland  and  San Jose  lead  California 
cities preparing to tax marijuana crops and sales if state
voters decide on Nov. 2 to legalize the drug for personal use.  From Long Beach to Berkeley, ballot measures aim to spin
tax revenue from passage of Proposition 19, which would let
adults 21 and older grow and possess marijuana. Initiatives to
tax growers and sellers are among at least 11 local proposals,
according to data prepared for Bloomberg News by Santa Cruz
County Clerk Gail Pellerin.  “Should Prop 19 pass, we’re going to see a number of
requests for retail businesses in San Jose and we’ll have to
deal with regulations as well as taxing the operations to defray
the cost of oversight,” said Rick Doyle, the city’s attorney.
Located in the heart of Silicon Valley, San Jose is home to
technology companies, including  EBay Inc.  and  Cisco Systems Inc.   Proposition 19 would let local governments tax and regulate
commercial production, distribution and sale of marijuana. Some
cities would designate the new revenue to pay anticipated
increases in law-enforcement costs. Others would use the cash
raised to cover unrelated expenses. In 1996, California became
the first state to legalize marijuana for medical use.  “The medical marijuana dispensaries are telling us that it
will be lucrative,” Doyle said, citing Oakland, which collects
revenue from the state sales tax on the drug. The levies range
from 8.25 percent to 10.75 percent, according to Anita Gore, a
spokeswoman for the  California State Board of Equalization , the
state’s tax administrator.  Oakland Collects  In Oakland, where voters will consider a new levy on
marijuana businesses, the city’s four dispensaries generated
$3.01 million in sales taxes in the past fiscal year, including
more than $308,000 that went into municipal coffers, according
to  Karen Boyd , the city’s communications director.  San Jose’s ballot measure would impose a tax of as much as
10 percent on gross receipts of marijuana businesses to pay for
road paving, parks, senior programs and other city services.  The revenue potential from legalizing the drug is hard to
project, since it hinges on variables such as the tax rate, the
number of marijuana businesses and their receipts, said Michelle
McGurk, a spokeswoman for San Jose Mayor  Chuck Reed .  Proposition 19  would let Californians grow the plant on as
much as 25 square feet (2.3 square meters) of land per residence
or parcel for personal use and not for sale. It would allow
local governments to license retail sales and regulate
commercial cultivation, according to a state voter guide.  New Taxes  In Rancho Cordova, a suburb of Sacramento, a ballot
proposal would require marijuana businesses to pay a tax ranging
from $120 to $150 per $1,000 of receipts. Another measure would
require growers to pay an annual tax of from $600 to $900, based
on indoor or outdoor cultivation.  “There are additional public-safety expenses that will
come about from the legalization of marijuana,”  Donna Silva ,
finance director for Rancho Cordova, said by telephone. “We
want to make sure that we have adequate revenues.”  In Berkeley, voters will decide whether to let the city
slap a $100 levy on each $1,000 of receipts for non-medical
marijuana businesses to help pay for  services  ranging from
street repair to public health, according to the city’s website.  “Our city has been suffering during the recession,”  Kriss Worthington , a member of the Berkeley City Council who supports
legalization, said by telephone. “This will be one piece to
make up for some of the declines in the economy.”  Support for Proposition 19 has dwindled, with 51 percent of
likely voters opposed to it, compared with 39 who supported it
in a poll released Oct. 22 by the University of Southern
California and Los Angeles Times. A May survey showed backers at
49 percent, with 41 percent opposed.  California residents consume about 1 million pounds (454
metric tons) of marijuana each year, according to the
 Equalization Board .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 