-- Prasarn Says Baht Measures Appropriate, Doesn't Rule Out More Inflow Curbs
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-10-29T09:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/prasarn-says-baht-measures-appropriate-doesn-t-rule-out-more-inflow-curbs.html
Bank of Thailand Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said existing measures to curb volatility in the
baht are appropriate, though he didn’t rule out using additional
tools if the currency’s appreciation accelerates.  “What we are using now is appropriate in the current
situation,” Prasarn said at a briefing in Bangkok today. “But
I can’t say we won’t do anything. We are quite flexible and we
will try to curb volatility as much as we can. We have prepared
other measures and will see whether we will use them or not.”  The baht rallied for a fifth month, the longest stretch
since 2008, boosted by  trade inflows  and foreign demand for the
country’s stocks and bonds. Thailand this month scrapped a tax
exemption for foreign investors in domestic bonds to slow
capital inflows that have pushed the currency to a 13-year high.  “The Bank of Thailand is willing to allow the baht to
appreciate in line with regional currencies and is committed to
limiting volatility,” said  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based
economist at Barclays Plc. “With a strong current account
surplus and rising inflows into the equity market, we continue
to expect the baht to appreciate in coming months.”  The baht rose 1.6 percent this month to 29.98 per dollar as
of 3:35 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency declined 0.1 percent today. It has rallied 11
percent this year, the best performance among Asia’s most-traded
currencies excluding the yen. The baht will likely end the year
at 30 per dollar and appreciate to 29 by end-2011, Bajoria said.  Exporters Must Adjust  Prasarn urged Thai exporters to adjust to the realities of
a stronger currency.  “Thai exports can no longer rely on cheap labor and a weak
baht,” he said, in his first press conference since taking
office at the start of October.  Thailand’s current account surplus widened to $2.77 billion
in September from $280 million in August due to rising exports
and recovering tourism, the central bank said. Exports rose 21.8
percent to a record $17.96 billion last month.  Prasarn said he didn’t see inflation as an immediate threat,
and the central bank’s monetary policy will be “flexible.”  The  Bank of Thailand  last week refrained from a third
straight increase in its benchmark interest rate, citing
“uncertainties” in the global economy. The central bank
yesterday raised its economic growth forecast this year to as
much as 8 percent, the highest in 15 years, and Moody’s
Investors Service revised the nation’s credit rating outlook to
stable from negative, citing the strength of the recovery.  Interest Rate May Rise  “Local interest rates are adjusting to a normal level,”
Prasarn said. “Inflation doesn’t have immediate pressure. But
there is a risk that core inflation will accelerate to the upper
end of our target next year.”  The  central bank  on Oct. 20 held  its benchmark interest
rate  at 1.75 percent after raising it in July and August,
joining counterparts in Malaysia and South Korea in pausing
after raising rates earlier this year.  “The probability of a rate hike at the Dec. 1 policy
meeting has declined significantly,” Barclays’s Bajoria said in
a research note today. “With inflationary pressures likely to
rise only in 2011, and given that it expects growth to moderate
in the second half of 2010, we believe the central bank is
likely to take a gradual approach to policy normalization.”  Exports Surge to Record  Thailand’s  current account surplus  widened to $2.77 billion
in September, the central bank said today. The measure comprises
the difference between exports and imports of goods and services,
investment income and remittances. Trade makes up about 70
percent of the current account, and tourism contributes most of
the service industry’s 30 percent component.  Exports  gained 21.8 percent after rising 23.6 percent in
August.  Imports  rose 15.7 percent last month, and the trade
surplus widened to $3.24 billion, compared with $852 million in
August.  “We may see the baht strength impact exports next year as
most exporters already booked orders for this year,” central
bank Director  Mathee Supapongse  said today.  Manufacturing output rose 8.1 percent from a year earlier
in September after a revised 8.4 percent in August, the central
bank said, citing data from the Office of Industrial Economics.  The central bank yesterday forecast exports this year will
grow between 25.5 percent and 28.5 percent, before slowing to as
much as 14 percent next year. GDP growth will also moderate to
as much as 5 percent in 2011.  There is no sign of an asset-price bubble in Thailand’s
property market, according to the central bank.  “But we are cautious, as we don’t want it to happen,”
Prasarn said. “There is the possibility that it can happen when
lots of capital flows in and interest rates are low, so we have
to be careful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  