-- Treasury 30-Year Bonds Climb as Preferred Inflation Gauge Misses Forecast
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-29T14:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/treasuries-set-for-first-monthly-loss-since-march-as-fed-prepares-stimulus.html
Treasury 30-year bonds rose as a
report showing the Federal Reserve’s preferred inflation measure
increased less than forecast added to speculation that policy
makers will boost purchases of longer-term assets.  The long bonds erased earlier  losses  after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. predicted that the Fed may include them in a purchase
effort called quantitative easing. The acquisitions may cause
the difference in yield between 10- and 30-year debt to narrow,
 Francesco Gazarelli , a London-based analyst, wrote in an e-
mailed note today.  “We have softer-than-expected inflation data,” said  Dan Mulholland , a Treasury trader in New York at Royal Bank of
Canada, one of 18 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “The
GDP is a positive sign going forward, but inflation data will
trigger whether or not the Fed does QE.”  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 4 percent at 10:01 a.m. in New York, after
tumbling as much as six basis points, according to BGCantor
Market Data. Benchmark 10-year note yields fell four basis
points to 2.62 percent.  Treasuries handed investors a loss of 0.4 percent in
October, the first decline since they fell 0.9 percent in March,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes showed.  The  price gauge , a measure of personal consumption that
strips out food and energy costs, increased at a 0.8 percent
annual pace in the third quarter, less than the 1 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and down from a 1 percent
increase the prior quarter, government figures showed today.  GDP Growth  Gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual rate from
July through September, in line with economists’ forecasts,
Commerce Department figures showed. The pace was 1.7 percent in
the second quarter and 3.7 percent in the first.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
U.S. consumer sentiment fell to 67.7 in October from 68.2 a
month earlier. The preliminary October measure was 67.9.
Economists had forecast a reading of 68, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Fed policy makers meet Nov. 2-3 to consider next week steps
to boost an economy that’s growing too slowly to reduce
unemployment near 10 percent. Market participants are focusing
on the size, timing and maturities of likely purchases of
assets. Debt investors have said the central bank shouldn’t
allow inflation, which erodes the value of bonds’ fixed
payments, to accelerate too rapidly.  “In the near term we need stimulus,” said  Suvrat Prakash ,
an interest-rate strategist in New York at primary dealer BNP
Paribas. “There is some level of trust in how aggressive the
Fed can be in taking back stimulus when the time comes.”  ‘Something Different’  The Goldman report on 30-year bonds helped push them
higher, said  Gary Pollack , who helps oversee $12 billion as head
of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth
Management unit in New York.  “It’s the first time we’re hearing someone voice the
opinion publicly that the Fed’s going to have to do something
different in terms of QE,” Pollack said in an interview.
“Goldman’s a respected voice on the street saying the Fed’s
going to have to go out to 30s to do something.”  Treasury Inflation Protected Securities show traders’
expectations for consumer prices rose for a second month as
central-bank policy makers prepared to meet.  “Inflation-linked bonds outperformed nominal Treasuries
significantly because of expectations that a fresh round of
quantitative easing will lead to inflation,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Treasuries might fall further if it turns
out that the Fed takes a more cautious approach this time. It’s
not going to be another shock-and-awe.”  Inflation Bets  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for the annual increase in consumer
prices over the life of the securities, widened 34 basis points
this month to 2.15 percentage points.  A $10 billion sale of five-year TIPS on Oct. 25 drew a
yield of minus 0.55 percent, the first negative rate at a U.S.
debt sale, as investors speculated they will have positive
returns when inflation picks up.  Treasuries are up 8.3 percent in 2010, the Bank of America
indexes show, reflecting demand for the relative safety of
government debt as economic growth slowed. The  Standard & Poor’s
500  Index rose 6.2 percent in the period.  Reinvestment Program  U.S. central bankers announced Aug. 10 they would reinvest
principal payments from the Fed’s holdings of mortgage debt in
U.S. government securities. They have bought $62.3 billion of
Treasuries since the program started a week later.  Fed officials said Sept. 21 they are prepared to do more to
support the recovery and lift the inflation rate, and traders
have been trying to predict what the central bank will do since.  Consumer prices excluding food and fuel costs rose 0.8
percent in September from the year before, the smallest  year-
over-year  gain since 1961.  Treasuries gained yesterday as a Fed survey asking bond
dealers how asset purchases will influence yields spurred bets
policy makers are open to buying large amounts to spur growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  