-- Treasury 30-Year Bonds Climb as Preferred Inflation Gauge Misses Forecast
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-29T21:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/treasury-30-year-bonds-climb-as-preferred-inflation-gauge-misses-forecast.html
U.S. 30-year bonds gained for a
second day as a report showing the Federal Reserve’s preferred
inflation measure rose less than forecast added to speculation
policy makers will boost purchases of longer-term assets.  The long bonds pared their biggest monthly drop since
December amid the data and comments from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. that any so-called quantitative easing by the Fed to spur
the economy would likely include buys of the securities. The  gap 
in yield on 10- and 30-year debt narrowed to a record 1.46
percentage points Oct. 15 on concern the flooding of cash into
financial markets by the Fed will boost consumer price gains.  “Some of the things the Fed was trying to achieve they
achieved already, and one of those was an increase in inflation
expectations,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-based
fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. “Now
let’s do it, already -- let’s see what this is going to amount
to.”  Yields  on 30-year bonds tumbled six basis points, or 0.6
percentage point, to 3.99 percent at 4:56 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The yields increased 30 basis
points this month, the most since they surged 45 basis points in
December, and were up six basis points for the week. The 3.875
percent security due in August 2040 climbed 1 2/32 today, or
$10.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 2/32.  Benchmark  10-year note  yields fell six basis points for the
day and rose five basis points for the week to 2.6 percent.  Two-
year yields  touched 0.3357 percent, within one basis point of
the record low 0.327 percent reached Oct. 12. They fell two
basis points for the week.  Monthly Decline  Treasuries handed investors a loss of 0.4 percent in
October, the first monthly decline since March, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes showed. They’re up 8.3 percent in 2010,
reflecting demand for the relative safety of government debt as
the U.S. economic recovery faltered. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 
Index rose 6.1 percent in the period.  The  inflation gauge , a measure of personal consumption that
strips out food and energy costs, increased at a 0.8 percent
annual pace in the third quarter, less than the 1 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and down from a 1 percent
increase the prior quarter, government figures showed today.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual rate from
July through September, in line with economists’ forecasts,
Commerce Department figures showed. The pace was 1.7 percent in
the second quarter and 3.7 percent in the first.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
U.S.  consumer sentiment  declined to 67.7 in October from 68.2 a
month earlier. Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast an
increase in the reading to 68.  ‘We Need Stimulus’  Fed policy makers meet Nov. 2-3 to consider steps to boost
an economy that’s growing too slowly to reduce unemployment near
10 percent. Market participants are focusing on the size, timing
and maturities of likely asset purchases. Debt investors have
said the central bank shouldn’t allow inflation, which erodes
the value of bonds’ fixed payments, to accelerate too rapidly.  “In the near term we need stimulus,” said  Suvrat Prakash ,
an interest-rate strategist in New York at primary dealer BNP
Paribas. “There is some level of trust in how aggressive the
Fed can be in taking back stimulus when the time comes.”  Fed purchases of 30-year bonds may cause the difference in
yield between them and 10-year Treasuries to narrow,  Francesco Gazarelli , a London-based analyst at primary dealer Goldman
Sachs, wrote in an e-mailed note today. The gap in yields was
1.38 percentage points, compared with a five-year average of
0.53 percentage point, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Something Different’  “It’s the first time we’re hearing someone voice the
opinion publicly that the Fed’s going to have to do something
different in terms of QE,” said  Gary Pollack , who helps oversee
$12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank
AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New York. “Goldman’s a
respected voice on the street saying the Fed’s going to have to
go out to 30s to do something.”  Treasury Inflation Protected Securities show traders’
expectations for consumer prices rose for a second month as
central-bank policy makers prepared to meet.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for the annual increase in consumer
prices over the life of the securities, widened 34 basis points
this month to 2.15 percentage points. It was 1.47 percentage
points on Aug. 25, the least since May 2009.  A $10 billion sale of five-year TIPS on Oct. 25 drew a
yield of minus 0.55 percent, the first negative rate at a U.S.
debt sale, as investors speculated they will have positive
returns when inflation picks up.  Purchase Forecasts  The Fed will probably announce next week asset purchases at
an initial pace of $75 billion to $100 billion a month,
strategists at Citigroup Inc. including  Brett Rose  and  Joseph Leary  wrote in a research note. While the report forecast $500
billion to $750 billion in buys over six to nine months, it said
policy makers are unlikely to commit to a specific time period.  Other estimates for the ultimate size of an asset-
acquisition program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch Global Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs.
Economists at both firms said the Fed will likely start by
announcing $500 billion next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  