-- Republicans Will Win House, Start Cutting Budget, McCarthy Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-10-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/republicans-will-win-house-start-cutting-u-s-budget-mccarthy-predicts.html
Republican U.S. Representative  Kevin McCarthy  said his party will win the House majority in the Nov.
2 elections and could gain as many as 59 seats.  “We’ll capture the majority,” McCarthy, chief recruiter
of Republican candidates for the House, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing
this weekend. Asked whether his party may gain as many as five
dozen seats, the two-term California congressman said “we could
post as high as 59.”  Polls show that Republicans, running on a platform of
change, are poised to regain control from House Democrats. They
need a net gain of 39 seats to reach that threshold. Republicans
have a 47 percent to 44 percent edge among likely voters in
congressional races, according to a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted Oct. 24-26.  In a separate interview on “Political Capital,” U.S.
Senator  Robert Menendez , who leads the Democratic Senate
campaign, said his party will do better than expected in that
chamber and predicted an upset win in the Illinois race for
President  Barack Obama ’s old seat.  “We will, number one, be in the majority in the Senate as
Democrats after Nov. 2,” Menendez of New Jersey said.  McCarthy, 45, the Republican chief deputy whip, said he
doesn’t see his party reaching a compromise with Democrats on
extending Bush-era income-tax cuts during a lame-duck session
after the elections.  Tax Cut Extension  Democrats and Republicans are deadlocked over who should be
covered by an extension of the tax cuts, enacted in 2001 and
2003, that are set to expire at the end of this year. Democrats
want to continue the lower tax rates for families earning up to
$250,000 a year, while Republicans insist on keeping the cuts
for higher-income Americans as well.  “The best compromise is not to raise taxes in a
recession,” McCarthy said. “The best perspective here is end
the uncertainty, give an extension and start focusing on small-
business growth.”  McCarthy said Republicans will immediately begin making
good on their pledge to cut federal spending. He refused to say
whether those reductions would come from programs such as Pell
Grants to help low-income students pay for college or funding
for National Institutes of Health research into diseases such as
cancer and Alzheimer’s.  ‘Special’ Places  “People go out and pick the special little places,” he
said. “We would look at all discretionary spending outside of
security.”  “You could find so many other places to cut before you
even touch those,” McCarthy said.  Even so, he questioned whether all NIH money is going to
actual research. He pointed to a grant to a college professor to
study Congress’s votes on the health-care overhaul, adding “is
that the best use of money?”  House Republicans, in their “Pledge to America” agenda
announced in September, promised to cut $100 billion in domestic
spending programs if they take power. The unspecified cuts would
come from non-defense domestic discretionary programs, which
totaled $477 billion in the 2010 budget. Social Security and
Medicare would be excluded from the proposed 21 percent
reductions.  Fewer than one-third of the Bloomberg poll respondents --
31 percent -- say they support cutting federal spending in areas
such as education and health care.  Opposition to Gridlock  Voters in the Bloomberg poll overwhelmingly say they don’t
want a Republican takeover to result in congressional gridlock.
Four-fifths say they want Republicans and Democrats to work
together to get things done, as opposed to rigidly sticking to
principles.  “We need to have solutions,” McCarthy said when asked
about that finding. He said Republicans promise to work toward a
balanced budget and “get this country back under control. That
is a principle that I think America wants to see happen, and
that’s something that we will fight for.”  Asked about a possible surprise victory by Republicans next
week, McCarthy said challenger Andy Vidak would defeat
Democratic Representative  Jim Costa  in California.  “No one’s been watching it and it hasn’t been on anybody’s
radar screen,” he said.  Menendez, 56, said surprises will continue in the
elections, similar to the losses in primaries by some Republican
incumbents, and he dismissed a forecast his party will lose
eight seats in the Senate.  Illinois Race  “We may very well do better than that,” he said.
Democrats control the Senate 59-41, and Republicans need a net
gain of 10 seats to take the majority. Menendez predicted that
Illinois Democrat  Alexi Giannoulias  will win his race against
Republican Representative  Mark Kirk  to keep Obama’s former
Senate seat in Democratic control.  Illinois Republican Chairman Pat Brady said in an e-mail
that Menendez’s “happy talk will not change the results on
election day when Illinois voters support Mark Kirk.”  Menendez also said Democrats have a good chance of picking
up a seat in Alaska, where Republican Senator  Lisa Murkowski  is
seeking re-election as a write-in candidate after her upset loss
in the primary to Tea Party-backed candidate Joe Miller.  Miller’s campaign is struggling, creating an opportunity
for Democratic candidate  Scott McAdams , mayor of Sitka, in the
three-way contest.  “He has a real shot of winning,” Menendez said. “Every
poll shows that he has risen dramatically.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  