-- Reserve Bank of India to Ease Cash Shortage After Share Sales Drain Funds
-- B y   V   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-10-29T09:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/reserve-bank-of-india-to-ease-cash-shortage-after-share-sales-drain-funds.html
India’s  central bank  said it will
inject funds into the banking system to ease a cash shortage
after the nation’s record share offering by state-owned Coal
India Ltd. drained money.  The monetary authority will conduct special  repurchase
auctions  today, tomorrow and Nov. 1, allowing banks to borrow
from it at 6 percent, the Reserve Bank of India said in an e-
mailed statement today. The overnight  call money rate  touched
12.25 percent today, the highest level since Nov. 1, 2008,
indicating demand for cash pushed up interbank lending rates.  ”This will enable banks to plan their liquidity better,”
said  Saugata Bhattacharya , an economist at Axis Bank Ltd. in
Mumbai. “The balance is far tipped to provide liquidity than
worrying about inflation at this point.”  Surplus cash in the banking system dried up as investors
withdrew money to pay for the shares of state-owned Coal India,
the world’s biggest producer of the fuel, at its initial public
offering last week. Orders at the sale reached 15 times the
stock available, helping the government raise 152 billion rupees
($3.4 billion).  Banks will be allowed to borrow up to one percent of their
deposits based on their liabilities as on Oct. 8, the monetary
authority said. This will be in addition to the amount they can
borrow by pledging bonds held by them above the so-called
 Statutory Liquidity Ratio . Reverse-repurchase auctions will also
be conducted on all the three days to mop up any surplus.  Banks have to invest 25 percent of their deposits in low-
risk debt, including government bonds, approved by the central
bank. Penal interest will be waived on banks that fall short of
bond reserve requirements temporarily, according to the
statement.  Lenders borrowed an average of 603 billion rupees ($13.5
billion) a day from the central bank’s repurchase auction window
in October, compared with an average of 250.8 billion rupees a
day in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  