-- Tribune Lenders Sue JPMorgan Claiming Buyout Was Fraud
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-30T00:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/tribune-lenders-sue-jpmorgan-merrill-claiming-they-knew-buyout-was-fraud.html
A group of  Tribune Co.  lenders sued
affiliates of JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and
Citigroup Inc. over the 2007 buyout of the newspaper publisher,
claiming the banks knew the deal would ultimately fail.  When they pushed to close the two-stage transaction, the
banks knew the $3.7 billion in financing “was tainted with
fraud and other misconduct,” the lenders, who include hedge
funds and investors who specialize in distressed debt, said in a
complaint filed today in New York state court in Manhattan.  Since Chicago-based Tribune filed bankruptcy last year,
lenders and other creditors have fought among themselves in
court over whom was to blame for the company’s bankruptcy and
how to divide ownership of the biggest newspaper and television
company in bankruptcy.  JPMorgan is allied with Tribune and hedge funds Angelo
Gordon & Co. and  Oaktree Capital Management LP , who are also
buyout lenders but not part of the lawsuit. They have proposed
splitting Tribune among themselves and settling some potential
buyout lawsuits.  Other creditors have until midnight to file their own
reorganization plans.  Lending Agreement  In the complaint, a group that holds about $767.7 million
of the $8.3 billion buyout debt alleged JPMorgan and the other
banks violated the lending agreement that binds all of the
lenders and the banks.  The banks knew that the second stage of the transaction
would add so much debt on the company that Tribune wouldn’t be
able to repay the loans, according to the complaint.  Spokesmen for JPMorgan and Citigroup didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment. Bank of America spokeswoman
 Shirley Norton  declined to comment.  Fighting among Tribune’s creditors, who are owed more than
$12 billion, intensified after July 27 when a bankruptcy
examiner,  Kenneth N. Klee , released a report that bolstered the
position of lower-ranking creditors and lenders who funded the
first stage of the buyout. Klee found that the second part of
the buyout, which closed in December 2007, was vulnerable to a
court challenge by creditors.  As part of the bankruptcy, the banks have claimed that if
lenders in the first stage of the transaction win a lawsuit
related to the second stage, the banks get to share in the
monetary damages. The lenders want a judge to throw out that so-
called sharing provision of the lending agreement.  The complaint claims the banks structured the deal in a way
that reduced their risks at the expense of the lenders. The
banks also hedged themselves through credit default swaps, which
pay holders should a company go bankrupt, the lenders claim.  The case is Alden Global Distressed Opportunities Fund LP
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 651884/2010, New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 