-- Robeco to Raise $150 Million by Year-End for Environmental Technology Fund
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-29T00:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/robeco-group-seeks-to-raise-150-million-for-environmental-technology-fund.html
Robeco Group, the Dutch money
manager owned by Rabobank Groep NV, aims to raise an additional
$150 million by year-end for its third private equity fund that
invests in environmental-technology companies.  The Sustainable Asset Management unit has raised $200
million so far for the fund of funds, said  Andrew Musters ,
global head of private equity at Rotterdam-based Robeco, which
has about 130 billion euros ($180 billion) in assets. The fund
will have a return target of about 15 percent, in line with
returns made by its two existing funds.  Robeco is trying to capture growing investor interest in
technology used in the renewable energy, recycling, water and
agriculture industries. Investment in those technologies grew 16
percent to $140 billion in the 12 months to Sept. 30, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “The theme of clean tech is becoming increasingly popular
with investors because the growth drivers are very strong,”
said Musters, 39, in an interview in Tokyo. “One of the most
important things is that natural resources are becoming scarce -
- we have seen the end of cheap commodities.”  The Robeco SAM Clean Tech Private Equity III fund plans to
invest in as many as 20 private equity funds that target
environmental technologies, make some direct investments in
companies and aim to participate in at least 10 secondary deals,
he said.  So far, it has made water, wind and solar investments in
Europe, Australia and the Americas, Musters said, declining to
name any of the funds or companies. It plans to expand its
investments into Asia, where it sees most opportunities in India
and China, he said.  Musters is visiting existing and potential Japanese
investors, including some oil and gas companies. New technology
and materials being developed for fuel cells in the country are
attractive, he said.  Robeco aims to raise a total of $500 million by the second
quarter of 2011 for the fund, according to Musters. The fund
aims to split its investment evenly between the U.S., Europe and
the rest of the world, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 