-- Rubber Declines, Paring Monthly Gain, as China May Tighten Trading Rules
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-10-29T02:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/rubber-declines-paring-monthly-gain-as-china-may-tighten-trading-rules.html
Rubber declined, paring a monthly
gain, as futures in Shanghai slumped amid concern that China may
tighten trading rules to curb excessive speculation and data
showed Japan’s industrial production dropped at a faster pace.  The most-active contract lost as much as 1.5 percent to
331.6 yen per kilogram ($4,122 a metric ton) before trading at
332.4 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange at 11:19 a.m. Futures
have gained 6.5 percent this month, heading for the best
performance since August, and increased 20 percent this year.  Futures in Shanghai tumbled amid speculation that China may
take additional steps to curb raw materials prices. The
Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange increased the margin requirement
for rice, rapeseed oil, wheat and sugar trading on Oct. 26. The
action came after the bourse said it would track “abnormal”
trading and recommend investigation by watchdogs.  “Caution about Chinese regulation was the largest drag on
the price of rubber futures,”  Takaki Shigemoto , an analyst at
JSC Corp. in Tokyo, said today by phone.  Chinese policy makers have grappled with rising consumer
prices and property-price gains after record lending and a 4-
trillion yuan stimulus package pumped up growth during the
financial crisis. Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent last month.  May-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
slumped as much as 4.8 percent to 30,765 yuan ($4,607) a ton
before trading at 31,265 yuan at 10:15 a.m. local time. The
price climbed to a record 33,320 yuan on Oct. 26.  Japan’s Factories  Rubber futures also declined as data showed Japan’s
industrial production fell for a fourth month in September,
raising concern its demand for the commodity used in tires may
weaken, Shigemoto said.  Factory   output  decreased 1.9 percent from August, when it
dropped 0.5 percent, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today. The
median estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a 0.6 percent decline.  Manufacturers including  Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Honda Motor
Co.  are grappling with the appreciation of the yen, which has
gained more than 5 percent even after the government intervened
in the foreign-exchange market last month. Japan’s exports grew
at the slowest pace this year in September as global demand
cooled, a government report showed this week.  Losses were limited as rain may cause flash floods and
landslides in 15 southern provinces in Thailand before the end
of the month, the Department of Disaster Prevention and
Mitigation said. About 68 percent of rubber plantation areas are
in the south of Thailand, the largest producer and exporter.  A natural-rubber supply shortage will likely “worsen” in
the fourth quarter as unseasonal rainfall continues to disrupt
production from key growers,  the Association of Natural Rubber
Producing Countries  said.  Global rubber production this year is unlikely to increase
more than 5.3 percent to 9.4 million tons, from a previous
forecast of 6.3 percent, the association said. A further cut in
output is expected because of tapping disruptions in Malaysia,
Thailand and India, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  