-- Rupee Lures UBS as Currency Reserves Reaching $300 Billion: India Credit
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a   a n d   V e n   R a m
-- 2010-10-29T00:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/rupee-lures-ubs-as-currency-reserves-reaching-300-billion-india-credit.html
India is poised to join China, Japan
and Taiwan with foreign-exchange  reserves  exceeding $300
billion, helping the rupee toward its best two-month gain since
the period to May 2009.  The stockpile has increased $14 billion since Aug. 31 to a
two-year high of $296.4 billion, heading for the biggest two-
month gain since February and March 2008,  Reserve Bank of India 
data show. A central bank report today may show that reserves
are on track to reach the level shared by only three other Asian
economies, according to Standard Chartered Plc and Yes Bank Ltd.
The rupee has advanced 5.7 percent since Aug. 31, the second-
best performance among Asian currencies behind the South Korea
won’s 6.7 percent gain, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Global investors have poured an unprecedented $35 billion
this year into  stocks  and  bonds  of Asia’s third-biggest economy,
driving down corporate-bond yields in relation to government
borrowing costs. The surge in reserves is prompting UBS AG,
Credit Suisse Group AG and Wells Fargo & Co. to predict the
rupee will strengthen every quarter through 2011.  “Reserve gains ease concerns about the balance of payments
and are symptomatic of rising pressure on the currency to
appreciate in the medium term,”  Bhanu Baweja , the London-based
global head of emerging-markets currency and fixed-income
strategy at UBS, said in an Oct. 27 interview. “The rupee is
set to be one of the top performers among Asian currencies,
driven by the strength of India’s capital account.”  ‘Speculative’ Flows  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao warned this week
that near-zero interest rates in developed nations are fueling
“ speculative ” capital flows into emerging markets, heightening
the risk of asset bubbles.  In 1991, a balance of payments crisis led India to pawn its
gold with the International Monetary Fund to pay for imports. In
1997, Asian nations were forced to seek a bailout worth more
than $100 billion from the IMF after an exodus of foreign
investors caused their currencies to slump.  India’s reserves have increased more than  eightfold  in the
past decade and touched a record $316.2 billion in May 2008,
central bank data show. The currency assets now cover 10 times
the amount the South Asian nation paid for  imports  in August.  “The rise in currency holdings tells a story of tremendous
local and global confidence in the economy,” Shubhada Rao,
Mumbai-based chief economist at Yes Bank, which is partly owned
by Rabobank Nederland NV and HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an
interview yesterday. “It’s only a matter of time before
reserves cross $300 billion as Indian assets attract more
investments.”  Default Swaps  Prices of credit-default swaps used to protect against
losses on the debt of nine Indian companies fell in the past
three months, according to the data provider CMA. Swap prices
dropped 14 percent to 165 basis points for  State Bank of India ,
the nation’s largest lender, and 1.3 percent to 167 for  Reliance
Industries Ltd. , the country’s biggest company by market value.  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold India’s five-year
corporate bonds instead of similar-maturity government notes has
shrunk to 63 basis points from an all-time high of 413 in
October 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
spread has narrowed 24 basis points this year.  A measure that weighs company earnings against their share
prices signaled Indian stocks are the most expensive in Asia.
The  price-to-earnings  ratio of the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
 Sensitive Index  climbed to 20.1 this month from 16.1 in May,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  India’s Bonds  Investors are buying India’s bonds after the debt
underperformed earlier this year as average inflation in the
first nine months jumped sevenfold to 9.7 percent. International
funds have purchased almost $10 billion in  Indian rupee debt  in
2010, more than the combined amount for the previous eight
years, according to the Securities and Exchange Board of India.  India’s government bonds returned 3.7 percent this year,
the second-worst performance among 10 local-currency debt
markets outside Japan, according to indexes compiled by London-
based HSBC, as the Reserve Bank raised interest rates five times
to slow inflation.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year  notes  climbed 55 basis
points in 2010 and rose one basis point yesterday to 8.14
percent. Similar-maturity securities yield 3.51 percent in
China, 7.53 percent in Russia and 12.23 percent in Brazil. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Capital Inflows  India has relied on capital inflows to help fund its trade
 deficit , which widened 47 percent to $13 billion in August from
a year earlier. The shortfall was the worst among the region’s
14 biggest economies.  “The current pace of capital inflows may not be
sustainable,” said  Priyanka Chakravarty , a Mumbai-based
foreign-exchange strategist at Standard Chartered. “A slowdown
in capital inflows may lead to renewed focus on the risks of the
widening trade deficit.”  The rupee, which slipped 0.1 percent yesterday to 44.52 per
dollar, will advance 2.3 percent to 43.48 by the end of 2011,
according to the median forecast of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The premiums investors paid for options offering protection
against possible rupee declines in a month was 113 basis points
yesterday, down from this year’s high of 600 on May 25,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Risk Reversal  So-called risk-reversal rates are below the level of 359
basis points for Brazil’s real and 122 for Russia’s ruble. The
measure for China was a positive 60 basis points, meaning
investors are more bearish on the dollar than China’s currency.  Implied volatility on one-month dollar-rupee options has
dropped to 10 percent from this year’s high of 18 percent
reached on May 25, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Traders
quote the gauge of expected swings in exchange rates as part of
option prices.  UBS, the world’s second-biggest currency trader,
recommended this month that investors buy the rupee against the
dollar and the pound, Baweja said. The Swiss bank predicts the
currency will gain 17 percent to 38 per dollar by October 2011.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc estimates the rupee will
climb to 44.30 by the end of this year as the South Asian
nation’s share sales attract inflows. Equity offerings have
totaled 1 trillion rupees ($22.4 billion), beating a previous
record of 782 billion rupees set in 2007, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The rising trend in India’s reserves should continue as
big share sales attract more inflows,”  Pin Ru Tan , a Singapore-
based strategist at RBS, said in an interview yesterday. “I’m
bullish on the rupee, given India’s economic strength.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ven Ram  in Singapore at 
 vram1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  