-- Russia Leaves Rates Unchanged as Recovery Stumbles
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-29T13:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/russia-leaves-rates-unchanged-for-fifth-straight-month-as-rebound-stumbles.html
Russia’s  central bank  left its main
interest rates unchanged for a fifth month on concern the
country’s economic rebound may be losing steam.  The bank kept the  refinancing rate  at a record-low 7.75
percent, as forecast by all 17 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Moscow-based Bank Rossii also left the repurchase rate on one-
and seven-day loans unchanged at 6.75 percent. The regulator
last cut rates on May 31.  “Statistics show a recovery of  economic growth  in Russia,
but risks for the stability of this process remain,” the bank
said in an e-mailed statement today. “Weakening consumer demand
as well as the uncertain prospects for the development of the
global situation pose added risks for economic growth.”  Economic expansion in the world’s largest energy producer
may fall short of the government’s official 4 percent target for
this year, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said on Oct. 20.
Citigroup Inc. cut Russia’s 2010 economic expansion forecast to
4.1 percent this week from 5 percent after retail sales lagged
behind economist estimates last month, adding to evidence
domestic demand may be weakening.  Increasing the refinancing rate is unlikely “right now,”
First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  told reporters on Oct. 5.
If economic growth becomes “risk free, stable, while price
stability gets disrupted, this would create conditions for
raising the rate.”  Shift Policy  The central bank is trying to shift policy to an inflation
targeting regime from its current mandate to support a stable
currency. The ruble kept its declines versus the dollar, trading
0.4 percent weaker at 30.7950 after the rate decision. The
currency weakened 0.6 percent to 30.8397 versus the dollar at
the close of trading in Moscow.  “Inflation risks, determined by monetary conditions, are
currently at an acceptable level,” the central bank said.
“Greater flexibility of the ruble’s exchange rate and a planned
decrease of the federal  budget deficit  next year, as well as the
use of market mechanisms to finance it, may help decrease these
risks.”  Russia’s annual  inflation  rate may meet the government’s 8
percent estimate, Kudrin said this month. The rate was 7 percent
in September. Consumer-price growth won’t exceed a monthly 0.6
percent in October, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  told
reporters on Oct. 25. Prices rose a 0.8 percent last month,
according to the Federal Statistics Service.  ‘Anomalous Weather’  Retail sales  growth slowed and inflation accelerated in
September after the summer’s “anomalous weather,” according to
Nabiullina. The country suffered the worst drought and wild
fires in at least half a century, sending grain prices higher
and fueling inflation. The central bank has indicated it won’t
raise rates to offset the price shock triggered by the extreme
weather conditions.  The bank is also unlikely to raise interest rates as the
government increases its debt sales, needed to finance the
budget deficit. The administration of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is trying to keep yields low even as issuance increases.  “Growing producer costs and the acceleration of  money
supply  growth will add to inflationary pressures from the end of
2010 and into 2011,” Moscow-based economists  Elina Ribakova  and
 Natalia Novikova  wrote in an e-mailed note on Oct. 27 “However,
we expect the central bank will remain under pressure not to
increase rates in order to support a greater issuance of
government bonds.”  ‘Not Too Fast’  The economy is on a recovery path that is “not too fast,
but more or less sustainable,” Ulyukayev said in an interview
in Moscow on Oct. 5. “We are in a balance between our economic
growth and inflation,” he said, adding the regulator isn’t “in
a position to cut rates now.”  The bank may keep an expansionary monetary policy “for the
coming months to support domestic growth drivers,” it said in a
statement today.  “Implications of the highly accommodative policy are
apparently bad for the ruble,”  Alexander Morozov , chief
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. in Moscow, said in an e-mailed
note today. “It makes the ruble an unattractive currency to
invest in at current interest rates.”  Russia’s central bank is set to keep the refinancing rate
unchanged for the rest of the year, according to a survey of
analysts from banks including Credit Agricole SA, Trust
Investment Bank and BNP Paribas SA.  That puts the country’s regulator in line with East
European central banks such as Poland, Hungary and the Czech
Republic, which probably won’t raise rates until next year as a
global economic recovery stalls and inflation remains in check,
last month’s Bloomberg survey of nine economists shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  