-- Russian Billionaire’s Bashneft Poised for Arctic Oil
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-10-29T12:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/russian-billionaire-s-bashneft-gets-clear-path-to-arctic-oil.html
OAO Bashneft, the oil company
controlled by Russian billionaire  Vladimir Yevtushenkov , may
increase its reserves about 70 percent after getting a clear run
at two of Russia’s largest undeveloped fields.  Bashneft  became the only bidder for Trebs and Titov fields
in Russia’s Arctic when OAO Surgutneftegas failed to make a
necessary cash deposit, a spokeswoman at Russia’s natural
resources ministry said yesterday, declining to be identified
because of internal policy.  Yevtushenkov has built Russia’s fastest growing oil company
from Soviet-era fields by using his purchasing power to resolve
politically sensitive ownership disputes. His  AFK Sistema  group
has spent more than $3 billion buying shares in Bashneft and OAO
Russneft. Output at Bashneft has jumped 25 percent since he took
control last year.  The Trebs and Titov oilfields, discovered in the Soviet
era, may hold more than 200 million metric tons, or 1.47 billion
barrels, of recoverable oil reserves, according to the
government. That compares with the 2.13 billion barrels of
proven, possible and probable reserves Bashneft said it held in
the second quarter of 2010, citing an audit from Miller & Lents
Ltd.  Yevtushenkov, Russia’s 13th richest man with a $7.5 billion
fortune according to Forbes, controls OAO Mobile TeleSystems,
Russia’s largest mobile phone operator, and is championing a
push by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to make the Glonass
satellite navigation project compete with the U.S. Global
Positioning System.  Tender Process  Bashneft, which still has to pass through the ministry’s
tender process, will likely get the fields,  Oleg Maximov ,  Valery Nesterov  and  Alex Fak , oil and gas analysts at Troika Dialog,
wrote in research yesterday.  “The fields’ net present value, estimated at $1.3 billion
in our view, contributes about 15 percent to the company’s
market cap and represents a free option on Bashneft stock and
the market has somehow yet to appraise this,” the analysts
said.  Bashneft has submitted the necessary documents and deposits
for the tender and aims to win the fields, a company spokeswoman
said.  The ministry in September said it rejected bids from  OAO
Lukoil  and TNK-BP, Russia’s second- and third-largest oil
producers, as well as OAO Gazprom Neft and India’s Oil & Natural
Gas Corp.  Additional Capacity  Lukoil and ConocoPhillips’s OOO Naryanmarneftegaz venture
owns the only infrastructure in the area, a pipeline passing by
the deposits to the Varandei export terminal that loads tankers
bound for western Europe and the U.S. among other areas. Both
the terminal and pipeline have the capacity to handle additional
oil, said a Lukoil spokesman who declined to be identified,
citing company policy.  “If the government had decided whom it wanted to develop
the field, it should have passed a directive to give them the
asset,”  Leonid Fedun , Lukoil’s deputy chief executive, said on
Oct. 6. “That’s within the law and the state’s right. Here we
had a tender announced and the way it was conducted wasn’t
pretty to say the least.”  Under the terms of the tender, the winner must refine at
least 42 percent of the output at its own plants and sell at
least 15 percent of the oil products via a Russian commodities
exchange.  Sistema’s target is to create a business valued at more
than $10 billion,  Alexander Korsik , the group’s head of oil,
said in an interview last month.  Ownership Clash  Bashneft has gained 60 percent this year, raising its
market value to $7.1 billion, while the RTS index in Moscow has
advanced 9.8 percent.  Sistema took  control  of Bashneft last year, ending an
ownership clash between the federal government and Bashkortostan
region. The former leader of the Urals Russia region,  Murtaza Rakhimov , sold the energy assets to structures with undisclosed
ownership in 2003.  “Russia’s political elite, for whatever reason, have
chosen Sistema as an agent of compromise to resolve disputes and
so far Sistema is adding value,” said  Igor Kurinnyy , an oil
analyst at ING Groep NV.  Sistema aims to boost combined output at Bashneft and
Russneft, in which it owns 49 percent, to about 600,000 barrels
of oil a day in the next several years from 550,000 barrels now,
Korsik said. Bashneft’s total refining capacity is 600,000
barrels a day. Korsik’s estimates exclude potential gains should
Bashneft win the Arctic fields.  State-run OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, did
not place a bid for the fields after previously expressing
interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 