-- Ryanair's 30% Stake in Aer Lingus Being Probed by U.K. Antitrust Regulator
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-29T11:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/ryanair-s-stake-in-aer-lingus-being-probed-by-u-k-s-antitrust-regulator.html
Britain’s antitrust regulator said
it’s investigating whether  Ryanair Holdings Plc ’s stake in Irish
competitor  Aer Lingus Group Plc  could lessen competition, four
years after the share purchase was completed.  The probe will examine whether the 30 percent stake, which
Ryanair acquired in 2006, gives it “material influence” over
Aer Lingus’s commercial policy, the  Office of Fair Trading  said
in a statement today. The watchdog said it’s also examining if
the deadline for investigating has expired. Ryanair says it has.  “Given the considerable passage of time, the OFT is now
legally out of time and no longer has jurisdiction,” Ryanair,
based in Dublin, said in a statement today. The investigation
“sets an alarming precedent for all current and future mergers
involving non-U.K. companies.”  After buying the stake in its Dublin-based competitor in
2006, Ryanair mounted a public bid for the rest of the company.
The  European Commission  investigated the proposed takeover and
in June 2007 prohibited the deal -- a decision that Ryanair
unsuccessfully appealed.  Aer Lingus also appealed, challenging the commission’s
decision not to force Ryanair to divest its minority holding. In
July 2010, the European General Court ruled that the Brussels-
based regulator couldn’t force a divestment when a minority
stake doesn’t give “decisive influence” over a company.  “The European Courts have already carried out detailed and
extensive investigations into Ryanair’s minority shareholding,
and have conclusively ruled that Ryanair lacks influence or
control over Aer Lingus,” Ryanair said in today’s statement.  Aer Lingus  Aer Lingus said in a statement that the carrier
“welcomes” the OFT’s decision to investigate and that it will
cooperate with the probe.  “While the EU merger regulation does not give the EU
Commission power to address such minority shareholdings,
individual member states remain free to apply their national
competition law to Ryanair’s shareholding,” Aer Lingus said in
the statement.  If the OFT finds problems with the deal, it can refer the
case the  U.K. Competition Commission . The investigation comes as
Britain’s government is considering merging the two regulators
to save costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 