-- Samsung, Novartis, NuVasive: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-29T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/samsung-j-j-spoonflower-blue-magic-nuvasive-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co.  agreed to
settle a patent-infringement case before the U.S. International
Trade Commission over its flash-memory chips used in  Apple
Inc. ’s iPhone and  Research In Motion Ltd .’s BlackBerry.  ITC Judge Theodore Essex said he will delay by 30 days a
ruling that was scheduled for yesterday on whether Samsung
violated patents owned by closely held BTG International Inc.
The companies named in the case, including Samsung, Apple, RIM
and  Dell Inc. , sought time to complete “a joint motion to
terminate the investigation based on settlement agreement,”
according to the order on the ITC’s website. The ITC must
approve the settlement.  BTG had been seeking an order to ban U.S. imports of
products containing Samsung Nand flash-memory chips, which store
songs or pictures on portable electronics, because they may have
infringed the company’s patents. BTG’s patents relate to ways of
programming and reading flash-memory cells that store more than
a single bit of information per cell, called “multi-level
cell,” according to the original complaint.  The company targeted products that are made in China, Hong
Kong and Taiwan and then sold in the U.S. Those electronics
include Apple’s iPhone, iPod music player and MacBook Air
notebook computer; RIM’s BlackBerry Storm mobile phone;  Sony
Corp. ’s digital cameras, Vaio computers and MP3 players; and
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung’s mobile phones, camcorders,
computers and MP3 players, according to the complaint.  Telephone and e-mail messages left for Samsung and BTG
about the ITC’s announcement weren’t immediately returned.  BTG, which doesn’t make any products, also is seeking
unspecified cash compensation in a civil lawsuit filed in
federal court in Marshall, Texas. That case has been put on hold
pending the outcome of the ITC investigation.  The ITC is tasked with protecting U.S. markets from unfair
trade practices by using its power to ban imports of products
that violate U.S. patents. Unlike a civil court, the Washington-
based agency has no authority to impose royalties on violators.  Also targeted in the case are computers by  Asustek Computer
Inc . and  Lenovo Group Ltd ., and flash-memory cards by  PNY
Technologies Inc.  and  Transcend Information Inc.   BTG is based in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania.  The case is  In the Matter of Certain MLC Flash Memory
Devices and Products Containing Same, 337-683, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  Novartis Wins J&J Appeal in France Over Lens Patent  Novartis AG  won an appeals court bid in Paris to uphold the
French portion of its European patent for extended-wear lenses,
defeating claims by  Johnson & Johnson  to overturn the
intellectual-property protection.  The ruling by France’s Court of Appeal Oct. 27 confirms a
March 2009 decision to reject an appeal by J&J and order the New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based maker of Acuvue brand contact lenses
to stop selling the product in France.  “The latest ruling confirms the validity of Novartis’s
patent in France,” Pierre Veron, the lawyer representing the
Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker, said by telephone yesterday.
J&J removed its product from the French market last year.  Courts have issued mixed rulings on the dispute since J&J,
the world’s biggest health-products company, started selling
 Acuvue Oasys  lenses in 2005. Judges in the U.S., France and the
Netherlands have backed Novartis’s patent, while courts in the
U.K., Germany and Austria have sided with J&J. Parallel cases
are pending in Ireland, Italy and Spain.  Novartis, Switzerland’s largest drugmaker, sued J&J in
France in 2007 over claims that the lenses infringed its patent
by using similar chemicals.  J&J spokesman Gary Esterow said the company is disappointed
with the Oct. 27 ruling in Paris and will appeal.  “We will continue to respect the injunction,” Esterow
said yesterday in an e-mail.  In the U.K. dispute, the Court of Appeal in London upheld a
lower-court ruling and invalidated Novartis’s patent over claims
it was “insufficient.” J&J has appealed its loss in the U.S. A
hearing hasn’t been scheduled, Esterow said.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Oracle Says SAP Won’t Contest Copyright Infringement Claims  Oracle Corp.  said in court filings that  SAP AG  won’t
contest Oracle’s claims that SAP contributed to copyright
infringement by a now-defunct software-maintenance unit being
sued for improperly downloading Oracle software.  SAP  lawyers  told Oracle in an e-mail Oct. 27 about its
decision and its plan to ask the judge who presides over the
case to shorten the trial, scheduled to begin Nov. 1, according
to a filing yesterday in federal court in Oakland, California.
Oracle, which is seeking billions of dollars in damages, says it
needs to revise its trial plans and asked the judge to postpone
the trial until Nov. 4.  “We are electing not to contest the claim for contributory
copyright infringement,” Greg Lanier, SAP’s attorney, said in
an e-mail contained in the court filing. Lanier didn’t return a
voice-mail message.  SAP previously said that the software-maintenance unit,
called TomorrowNow, was liable for its conduct and SAP, while it
owned the company, didn’t cause or contribute to the
infringement, according to an Aug. 27 court filing.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  Spoonflower Says Economics Prevents Copyright Infringement  Although copyright-infringement lawsuits are common in the
textile industry, a North Carolina company that custom prints
fabric designs says it has so far managed to avoid any such
litigation.  Spoonflower , based in Durham, prints on demand fabrics
derived from images uploaded by consumers. Spoonflower spokesman
Stephen Fraser said that unlike music piracy, it would make no
economic sense for a consumer to rip off a commercial design and
ask his company to reproduce it.  “Digitally printed fabric, which is what Spoonflower
produces, is significantly more expensive than conventionally
produced fabric,” he said in an e-mail yesterday. The price of
commercial fabric is around $8 a yard, while Spoonflower’s
digitally produced fabric costs about $18 a yard, he said.  “This is in stark contrast to the environment for piracy
in purely digital goods like music and movies,” Fraser said.
“The incentive for copying a movie or a song is not having to
pay for it. Not so with fabric.”  The company’s terms of service bar the unauthorized
uploading of intellectual property, Fraser said. “When we
receive notice from any individual or organization that a piece
of its copyrighted content appears on our site without
permission, we remove it immediately,” he said.  Blue Magic Founder Claims DVD Infringes Copyright  Vernon Sawyer, a founding member of the 1970s soul band
Blue Magic, sued an Illinois-based music producer for copyright
infringement.  The lawsuit stems from what Sawyer says is the unauthorized
taping and sale of a recording of a Blue Magic live performance
in Washington. Darryl Payne of Aurora, Illinois, is accused of
recording the concert and editing it into a “bootleg” DVD
titled “Blue Magic Live in Concert,” according to the
complaint filed Oct. 27 in federal court in Manhattan.  Vernon Sawyer said that while he and Payne entered into
negotiations after the fact about the sale and distribution of
the DVD, they never reached an accord. Instead, Sawyer said,
Payne presented a contract to two other members of the group,
persuaded them to sign it, and then proceeded with the sale and
distribution based on that agreement.  The DVD has been sold by Amazon.com Inc. other outlets, and
has received “extremely unfavorable” ratings because of the
poor production quality, according to court papers. Not a single
review of the DVD on the Amazon.com website is favorable, Sawyer
said in his pleadings.  He claims his reputation and future performing
opportunities are harmed by the sale and distribution of the
allegedly infringing recording.  Sawyer asked the court to bar further sale and reproduction
of the proprietary content, and for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs. He also asked for
destruction of all marketing materials that incorporate his
content without authorization.  He is represented by  Jerome S. Fortinsky ,  Christopher M.
Halfnight  and  Karina B. Lubell  of New York’s  Shearman & Sterling
LLP  and  Gregory C. Wyckoff  and  Robert L. Raskopf  of Los Angeles-
based  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP .  The case is Vernon Sawyer v. Darryl Payne, 1:10-cv-08142-
PKC, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  NuVasive Loses $60 Million Trademark Infringement Verdict  NuVasive Inc. , a medical-device company based in San Diego,
was ordered to pay a competitor $60 million in a trademark-
infringement case.  A jury in federal court in Los Angeles awarded the damages
to  Neurovision Medical Products Inc.  on Oct. 25.  Neurovision, based in Ventura, California, filed the
lawsuit in September 2009, claiming NuVasive began infringing
its trademark after discussions about a long-term contract
between the two companies ended without an agreement.  The jury found that NuVasive deliberately infringed the
mark and concealed that it knew of Neurovision’s prior use of
the mark when it filed trademark applications at the patent
office.  NuVasive said in a statement that it will appeal the
verdict, which had ‘no bearing on our proprietary technology or
product platform” and wouldn’t affect sales.  The case is Neurovision Medical Products Inc. v. NuVasive
Inc., 2:09-cv-06988-R-JEM, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California (Los Angeles).  INGfertility Registers ‘Seriously Fun Baby-Making’ Trademark  INGfertility LLC, a maker of products aimed at improving
human reproductive outcomes, registered “Seriously fun baby-
making” as a trademark.  The Spokane, Washington-based company will use the mark for
a sexual lubricant that doesn’t interfere with conception,
according to a  statement  released yesterday. The product, known
as Pre-Seed, is a water-soluble lubricant sold through  CVS
Caremark Corp. ’s stores, as well as independent pharmacies and
clinics.  INGfertility applied for the mark in February with the
assistance of  Gayle L. Strong  of Miami’s  Greenberg Traurig LLP ,
according to the trademark database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  According to the INGfertility  website , the company is named
for Ing, a Norse deity associated with fecundity.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 