-- Samsung Electronics Forecasts Weak Quarter as Earnings Peak
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-10-29T08:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/samsung-electronics-profit-climbs-to-record-fueled-by-semiconductor-sales.html
Samsung Electronics Co. , the world’s
biggest maker of televisions, memory chips and flat screens,
forecast weaker fourth-quarter earnings because of falling
prices and the strengthening South Korean won.  Oversupply of computer-memory chips and the drop in liquid-
crystal display prices will persist, the Suwon-based company
said in a statement. Samsung, which today reported record third-
quarter profit, also said it anticipates “severe” competition
in TV prices during the year-end season.  Samsung led technology-related  stocks  lower in Asian
trading as the projections fueled concern the earnings recovery
by the region’s export-driven companies is losing steam.
Government reports today showed South Korean industrial
production slowed and Japanese consumer prices fell, signaling
weaker economic growth.  “It comes to the economic conditions of advanced markets,
and there are only expectations,” said Kim Tae Woon, a fund
manager at Seoul-based NH-CA Asset Management, which oversees
$8.3 billion in assets. “There’s not much to rely on from
demand factors.”  Demand for electronics has been “abnormal” this year, and
it’s hard to predict when spending will pick up amid global
economic uncertainties, said  Peter Yu , a Seoul-based analyst at
BNP Paribas Asia.  Third-quarter  net income  climbed 17 percent to a record
4.46 trillion won ($4 billion), in line with the average of 10
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Samsung said profit
growth would slow in the fourth quarter, without providing
forecast figures.  Stronger Won  “We expect increased oversupply and price declines in the
memory market, as well we possible further declines in LCD
panels,”  Robert Yi , vice president of investor relations, said
on a conference call today. “Combining these with a possible
appreciation of the won, we expect the overall fourth-quarter
business conditions to be difficult.”  The won has gained 5.5 percent against the dollar in the
past three months, making it the third-best performer among the
10 most traded Asian currencies, excluding the yen, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Only the Thai baht and Philippine
peso have risen more against the U.S. currency in the period.  Samsung  fell 2.5 percent to 745,000 won at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Seoul, leading a 0.9 percent drop on the  MSCI AC
Asia Pacific Information Technology Index .  Chip Prices  Prices of chips known as dynamic random access memory,
which allow computers to run multiple programs simultaneously,
will probably fall because of an industry glut and weak
personal-computer demand, the company said. Samsung, the world’s
second-largest chipmaker after  Intel Corp ., today reported
semiconductor profits tripled in the third quarter.  The comments echoed those of its nearest competitor,  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc ., whose chief financial officer said yesterday
that DRAM prices will probably fall 20 percent to 25 percent
sequentially this quarter.  Elpida Memory Inc., the world’s third-largest maker of
computer-memory chips, will probably miss previous earnings
projections as slowing personal-computer demand drives down chip
prices, President  Yukio Sakamoto  said on Oct. 5  Sony, Panasonic  In LCDs, Samsung said the company will focus on producing
more profitable panels, such as those used in LED and 3-D TV
sets, as overall demand remains weak.  LG Display Co ., the
largest LCD maker after Samsung, said this month it expects the
display industry to turn around in the first quarter.  Samsung, which competes against Sony Corp. and  Panasonic
Corp . in the TV market, forecast “severe” price competition in
the industry after its digital-media division that assembles TVs
posted a loss of about 230 billion won.  Sony , Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics and
the maker of Bravia televisions, said today it’s cautious in its
outlook for the main electronics business because of a
deteriorating TV market in North America. The company still
raised its full-year profit forecast by 17 percent, citing
better earnings at its games and personal-computer businesses.  Panasonic expects uncertainty in the market to continue
with signs of “faltering” economic recovery in the U.S. and
Europe, while increasing competition drives down prices further,
the company said in a statement. The world’s largest maker of
plasma televisions reported net income of 31 billion yen ($384
million) in the three months ended Sept. 30 and kept its full-
year forecast unchanged.  In telecommunications, Samsung said it plans to keep profit
margins above 10 percent and focus on expanding its smartphone
business after introducing the Galaxy S to challenge  Apple
Inc .’s iPhone. Samsung has sold 5 million units of the handset
and aims to sell another 5 million during the rest of the year.  Profit at the mobile-phone division increased almost 20
percent to 1.13 trillion won in the third quarter after Samsung
sold 71.4 million handsets, an increase of 19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ; 