-- Schneider Electric's New Energy Units May Reach 15% of Revenue by 2015
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-29T13:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/schneider-electric-s-new-energy-units-may-reach-15-of-revenue-by-2015.html
Schneider Electric SA , the world’s
biggest maker of circuit breakers, said four new energy-
management businesses for industries such as electric-car
charging may account for as much as 15 percent of sales by 2015.  A three-year-old division that builds and runs solar-panel
arrays may contribute 350 million euros ($485 million) in
revenue in 2010,  Philippe Delorme , executive vice president in
charge of strategy and innovation, said in an interview. Teams
are developing units to offer electric-vehicle infrastructure,
demand-response power-usage technology and household energy-
saving equipment, and acquisitions may help growth, he said.  “The seeds that we’re planting will become substantial
businesses tomorrow in our portfolio,” Delorme said at company
headquarters in the Paris suburb of Rueil-Malmaison. “In these
businesses, we’re reacting quarter-by-quarter, like private-
equity funds. We’re in startup mode.”  Schneider , the world’s leader in low- and medium-voltage
distribution gear, bought Areva SA’s power-distribution unit in
June to add software and equipment for so-called smart grids,
which help operators manage fluctuating power supplies from
renewable-energy sources. It’s a partner in a French state-
backed program set up last year to create a nationwide battery-
charging network for electric cars.  The four new units may account for 5 percent to 15 percent
of Schneider’s revenue in five years, with the contribution
probably “in the double-digit area,” Delorme said.  The solar-park management business would provide
1.9 percent of Schneider’s revenue in 2010, based on  analysts’ 
estimates of 18.9 billion euros in group sales this year.
Delorme didn’t provide revenue forecasts for this year or next
for the vehicle-charging, demand-response or household-energy
operations.  ‘Monitoring’ for Purchases  Schneider is “monitoring” the demand-response industry
for possible takeover targets, with “plenty of players” in the
U.S. and Europe, Delorme said. He declined to name candidates,
adding that  EnerNoc Inc. , a Boston-based provider of energy
demand-reduction services, probably won’t be of interest because
it’s too expensive.  The French company is also seeking purchases for more
established divisions such as air-conditioning control systems
for buildings, where it trails  Honeywell International Inc. ,
Siemens AG and Johnson Controls Inc., Delorme said.  “Our acquisition projects are for everything that would
reinforce our position in building automation and industrial-
process automation,” with a priority in emerging markets, he
said. Schneider is also seeking to buy local or regional energy-
efficiency consultants, he said.  Schneider agreed on Oct. 20 to buy 50 percent of
Electroshield-TM Samara, which sells medium-voltage equipment in
Russia and Central Asia. Chief Financial Officer  Emmanuel Babeau 
said in April that India is a “top priority” for Schneider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  