-- SEC Urges Banks to Disclose Potential Losses From Foreclosures
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-10-29T22:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/sec-urges-banks-to-disclose-potential-losses-from-flawed-home-foreclosures.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission urged banks to disclose their expected losses from
flawed foreclosure documents, as mortgage-bond investors demand
refunds on billions of dollars of securities.  Lenders must disclose circumstances that they “reasonably
expect” to have an “unfavorable impact” on financial results,
the SEC said in a letter posted on the agency’s website today.
The letter was sent because of “concerns about potential risks
and costs associated with mortgage and foreclosure-related
activities,” the SEC said.  Federal regulators and attorneys general from all 50 states
are investigating whether loan-servicing companies used improper
procedures during foreclosure proceedings, including so-called
robo-signers who didn’t check documentation. Investors such as
Pacific Investment Management Co. have demanded that banks buy
back faulty loans that were bundled into bonds.  Banks should set aside funds for litigation and “other
contingencies when it is probable” that they will have losses,
the letter said. If companies can’t estimate losses, then they
should say so, the SEC said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp., Wells Fargo &
Co. and Citigroup Inc. have set aside a combined $10 billion to
cover buybacks. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to say which
banks received the letter.  Banks should also disclose financial obligations that stem
from packaging loans into securities, the letter said. Other
topics lenders should discuss include potential delays in
completing foreclosures and risks posed by “potentially higher
repurchase requests,” the letter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  