-- Shanghai Electric $10 Billion Order From India Signals China Export Surge
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T06:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/shanghai-electric-10-billion-order-from-india-signals-china-export-surge.html
Shanghai Electric Group Co. ’s $10
billion contract to supply coal-fired generators to India’s
 Reliance Power Ltd.  shows Chinese equipment makers are
increasing exports as the domestic market shrinks because of
government measures to curb pollution, analysts said.  The share of revenue from exports has almost doubled at
Shanghai Electric, China’s biggest power-equipment maker by
market value, and  Harbin Power Equipment Co.  as they compete
with global rivals led by General Electric Co. Reliance Power’s
order may be the world’s largest for generators, the company
controlled by Indian billionaire Anil Ambani said yesterday.  “Chinese manufacturers are targeting the developing world
for orders outside China, such as India, the Middle East and
Southeast Asia,” said Simon Jiang, an analyst at Guotai Junan
Securities HK Ltd. “They have a real advantage over competitors
from the developed world because their costs are lower. And the
technology now matches that in the West.”  China’s investment in power plants may fall “slightly”
this year to 660 billion yuan ($99 billion) as the government
chases energy-efficiency targets and pollution goals, the China
Electricity Council said in a statement today. The country will
invest mainly in power plants fueled by clean energy resources
this year, according to the council.  Shanghai Electric got 16 percent of its  revenue  from
overseas sales last year, compared with 8.25 percent in 2007.
Harbin Power, listed in Hong Kong, received 15 percent of its
revenue from abroad, from 7.8 percent in 2007.  The company must venture overseas because the market for
coal-fired generators in China will decline as the government
tackles pollution, said Dave Dai, an analyst at Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets in Hong Kong.  Power Capacity Expansion  Shares of  Shanghai Electric  surged 39 percent in Hong Kong
this year, beating the 5.4 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index . The power equipment maker climbed 1.9 percent to
HK$5 at the midday break. Reliance Power rose 3 percent to 157.5
rupees in Mumbai at 11:29 a.m. local time.  Shanghai Electric will supply a total of 30,000 megawatts
of generation equipment over the next three years, equivalent to
about 18 percent of India’s current installed capacity, Reliance
Power said in a statement yesterday. For the deal, Reliance
Power signed a $12 billion financing agreement with Chinese
banks in Shanghai.  “The strategic cooperation between Reliance Power and
leading global suppliers like Shanghai Electric will enable
faster project execution of our projects,” Reliance Power Chief
Executive Officer J.P. Chalsani said in the statement, adding
that deliveries have already started. An ultra mega power
project is capable of generating 4,000 megawatts.  Infrastructure Spending  The equipment will be delivered to Krishnapatnam ultra mega
power project, Chitrangi power project and Tilaiya ultra mega
power project, Chalsani said in an interview in Shanghai
yesterday. Some equipment has already been delivered to the
Rosa, Butibori and Sasan plants, he said.  The Shanghai Electric deal surpassed the supply contract
Reliance Power signed with GE, said the world’s biggest producer
of power-plant equipment on Oct. 25. Under a deal exceeding more
than $750 million in value,  GE  will deliver gas and steam
turbines that will be used to expand the capacity of a Reliance
Power plant.  India, ranked below war-ravaged Ivory Coast and Sri Lanka
for the quality of infrastructure, plans to spend $1.5 trillion
in the decade to 2017 to build roads, ports and power plants.
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on March 23 asked companies and
investors to fund half the planned $1 trillion budgeted for the
five years starting April 2012.  Indian Power Demand  The country’s $1.3 trillion economy grew at 8.8 percent in
the three months ended June, the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years.
India faced power shortages of as much as 10.7 percent during
peak hours in  August , the Central Electricity Authority said.
Current installed generation capacity is about 165,000
megawatts.  The government has pledged to provide electricity
nationwide by 2012, which would require an installed generation
capacity of 200 gigawatts to sustain economic growth of 8
percent, according to the power ministry.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 