-- Shenhua Energy Third-Quarter Profit Rises 11% on Higher Coal Price, Output
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T11:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/shenhua-energy-third-quarter-profit-rises-11-on-higher-coal-price-output.html
China Shenhua Energy Co. , the
nation’s biggest producer of the fuel, posted an 11 percent
increase in third-quarter profit after the company increased
production to benefit from higher prices.  Net income rose to 9.7 billion yuan ($1.45 billion), or
0.489 yuan a share, from 8.7 billion yuan, or 0.44 yuan a share,
in the same period  a year earlier , Shenhua said in a statement
to the Hong Kong stock exchange today. Sales jumped 30 percent
to 40.3 billion yuan.  Benchmark coal prices in China rose 28 percent in the
quarter from a year earlier, according to data from the China
Coal Transport and Distribution Association. China’s economy
grew by 9.6 percent in the same period, boosting demand for raw
materials and fuels.  “Coal prices are expected to rise further in the fourth
quarter because of higher demand for heating fuels, which will
benefit coal producers like Shenhua,”  Zhao Ke , a coal analyst
with China Galaxy Securities Co., said by phone from Beijing.  Shenhua  has declined 9.2 percent in Hong Kong this year,
compared with the 5.6 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng
Index. The company’s nine-month profit gained 13 percent to 29.5
billion yuan, it said today.  Coal demand will continue to rise in the second half
although growth may slow as the government shuts highly
polluting factories, Shenhua President  Ling Wen  said at a media
briefing in Hong Kong on Aug. 30.  Shenhua said in March it’s looking to boost production
through overseas acquisitions. The coal producer is also
considering purchasing assets from its parent Shenhua Group Corp.  -- Wang Ying  in Beijing, with assistance from  John Duce  and Marco
Lui in Hong Kong. Editors:  Ben Richardson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  