-- SingTel Optus Misled Australians With Ads for Broadband Plans, Judge Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-10-29T08:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/singtel-optus-misled-australians-with-broadband-advertisements-judge-says.html
SingTel Optus Pty Ltd.  misled
Australians in print, television and online advertisements for
its broadband service that promised data plans customers weren’t
likely to receive, a federal court judge ruled.  SingTel Optus, a unit of Southeast Asia’s biggest phone
operator Singapore Telecommunications Ltd., advertised broadband
plans that offered up to 170 gigabytes of data per month for a
set price, while noting in fine print if customers exceeded a
set limit during peak hours, the whole service would be slowed
to 64 kilobytes per second, a fraction of the broadband speed
that can be as high as 100,000 kilobytes per second.  “This advertisement is misleading, seriously so,” Judge
Nye Perram said of a television ad featuring a moose with
oversized antlers. The disclaimer outlining the limits of the
offer is only discernible by “often using the pause button,”
the judge said.  SingTel Optus can’t rely on call centers or hard-to-read
print for disclosure if the main message of an advertisement is
misleading, the judge ruled, setting a bar for other Australian
companies that rely on fine print to clarify limitations in an
ad.  Perram, who read the verdict from the bench and said a
written version would be available Nov. 2, plans to hold a
hearing later to determine the penalties to impose on SingTel
Optus. A date for the hearing hasn’t been set.  Fines Sought  The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, which
sued SingTel Optus, is seeking an order forcing the company to
run corrective ads and pay fines.  The judge today issued an order prohibiting SingTel Optus
from again running the ads.  “It is never our intention to mislead our customers and we
have corrected the advertising in question to make it clearer,”
SingTel Optus said in an e-mailed statement in response to the
ruling.  Television, billboard and newspaper advertising directs
potential customers to call the telecommunications company, or
go to its web site, Matthew Darke, SingTel Optus’s lawyer said
at a hearing earlier this week. The customers get complete
disclosure of the limitations of the service from the call
center or the web site, he said.  Consumers research broadband offerings before purchasing,
according to Optus’s studies, Darke said.  “Consumers don’t purchase broadband services on impulse,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  