-- Singapore Exchange to Trade ADRs for India, Taiwan, South Korea Companies
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2010-10-29T12:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/singapore-exchange-to-trade-adrs-for-india-taiwan-south-korea-companies.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. , which is
bidding for Australia’s  ASX Ltd. , plans to quote American
depositary receipts of Indian, Taiwanese and South Korean
companies by the first half of 2011.  The bourse, Asia’s second-largest publicly traded exchange
by market value, will first build up trading volumes on the 19
Chinese ADRs it started trading last week,  Rick Aston , head of
product sales, said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday.
Those ADRs range from  PetroChina Co. , Asia’s biggest company by
market value, to search-engine operator Baidu Inc.  “We’re essentially bringing these Asian companies back to
Asia,” Aston said. “We think this will bring in new investors
and add volume.”  He declined to comment on the company’s move to acquire
ASX, the operator of Australia’s dominant stock exchange.
 Singapore Exchange , led by Chief Executive Officer Magnus
Bocker, is trying to develop a pan-Asian presence to compete
with Hong Kong and Tokyo.  The Singaporean bourse started quoting the 19 Chinese ADRs
on Oct. 22 and bid about A$8 billion ($7.8 billion) for Sydney-
based ASX on Oct. 25. The company is also planning to introduce
a faster trading system by the first quarter of 2011.  New Initiatives  “If you’re going to just depend on Singapore listings
alone, that might not generate the kind of growth they’re hoping
to get,” said  James Koh , who covers the exchange as an analyst
for Kim Eng Securities Pte Ltd. in Singapore. “Bocker is
obviously a very proactive CEO and is generating a lot of new
initiatives.”  Singapore Exchange’s ADR partnership is the third between
the bourse and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. , Bocker’s former employer.
The two exchanges share trading technology and announced on Oct.
22 a collaboration to get companies to seek dual listings in
Singapore and New York.  Shares of the Singaporean bourse lost 0.9 percent to
S$8.80. The stock fell 7.8 percent this week, the biggest  weekly 
decline since May 2009, amid concern the company is paying too
much for ASX and that Australia’s government will block the
deal.  Three Australian lawmakers said yesterday they opposed the
ASX sale, meaning Singaporean Exchange needs the support of the
Labor government and at least four other legislators in the
lower house of parliament to approve the transaction.  Joe Hockey , the treasury spokesman for Australia’s
opposition coalition, told reporters in Sydney today that he
sought more information about the ASX sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  