-- Carlos Slim Calls on China to Bolster Domestic Demand
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-10-29T17:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/slim-calls-on-china-to-spur-domestic-market-rather-than-revalue-currency.html
China  needs to take steps to boost
domestic demand rather than let the currency appreciate to
improve global trade, said Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim .  Slim in an interview in New York also said competitive
devaluations “won’t succeed” and could spur inflation should
commodity prices remain high.  “If China salaries get increased and people work less they
will have more time and more money to spend,” Slim, the world’s
richest man according to Forbes magazine, said. “This domestic
demand will also help other countries in the world.”  The U.S. should rely on private investment rather than
government spending to help the economy, Slim, 70, said. Near
zero interest rates in the U.S. make “most of the investments
profitable.” Slim said the government needs to consider selling
assets to boost the economy and reduce the deficit.  “Most aggressive monetary and fiscal policies are not
enough,” Slim said earlier at the George Washington University
Global Forum in New York City. “They are temporary measures.”  Slim, who controls  Telefonos de Mexico  SAB, the nation’s
largest landline phone company, and has a stake in the New York
Times Co., said the global financial crisis is a sign that
governments must rein in debt. Forbes estimates Slim’s net worth
at $53.5 billion.  ‘Temporary Medicine’  Fiscal and monetary policies are only “temporary
medicine” and won’t help economies return to growth, he said.  U.S. policy makers are considering a round of asset
purchases after buying $1.7 trillion in debt from December 2008
to March. The Federal Reserve meets Nov. 2-3 to consider steps
to boost an economy growing too slowly and prevent inflation,
which remains below its longer-term projections, from cooling
even more. Growth in the 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent range is
consistent with keeping the jobless rate stable, according to
policy makers’ latest forecasts.  The Times is the “best brand, the best newspaper,” and
has options to publish in an electronic format, Slim said.  Charitable efforts by billionaires  Bill Gates  and Warren
Buffett are “well intentioned” but may not solve, Slim said.
Gates and Buffett have pledged to donate the bulk of their
wealth to charity.  Nations need infrastructure and telecommunications, not
just charity, he said.  “It’s important to put up your talent, not just your
money,” Slim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  