-- Sony Raises Full-Year Profit Forecast, Citing Demand for Games, Computers
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2010-10-29T09:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/sony-raises-full-year-profit-forecast-citing-demand-for-games-computers.html
Sony Corp. , Japan’s biggest exporter
of consumer electronics, raised its full-year profit forecast 17
percent, citing improved earnings at its games and personal-
computer businesses.  Net income  in the year ending March 31 will be 70 billion
yen ($868 million), compared with a previous projection of 60
billion yen, Sony said in a  statement  today. The company cut its
full-year  sales forecast  to 7.4 trillion yen from 7.6 trillion
yen, citing the stronger Japanese currency.  Computer sales rose and the cost of building  PlayStation 3 
game consoles fell, helping  Sony  deliver second-quarter earnings
that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Still, the maker of Bravia
TVs said it’s cautious in its outlook for the main  electronics
business  because of a deteriorating TV market in North America,
echoing concerns voiced by South Korea’s  Samsung Electronics Co.   “It looks like everything other than TVs did surprisingly
well, but television inventories are a worry,” said  Hidehiro Tomioka , who helps manage $1.4 billion in Tokyo at MFC Global
Investment Management (Japan) Ltd. “It’s hard to tell where
growth will come from in the future. They’ve got Samsung to
contend with, and the yen as well.”  Sony  fell 1.4 percent to 2,690 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo trading before the announcement. The company has gained
0.8 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent  drop  for
Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average , a 6.8 percent decline for
Samsung and an 18 percent slump for  LG Electronics Inc.  in Seoul.  Profit Beats Estimate  Second-quarter  net income  totaled 31.1 billion yen, beating
the 11.1 billion yen average of five analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. A year earlier, it had a  loss  of 26.3 billion yen.  Income at the  Consumer Professional & Devices group , the
division that makes TVs, Cyber-shot cameras and semiconductors
and is Sony’s biggest by revenue, more than doubled to 16.9
billion yen, missing analyst estimates for 22 billion yen. The
company has cut its forecast for the segment’s full-year profit
from its July projection, Sony said without elaborating.  The Networked Products & Services group, which handles
PlayStation games, VAIO computers and Walkman media players,
posted profit of 6.9 billion yen in the quarter, compared with a
59 billion yen loss a year earlier. Analysts had estimated a
loss of 12 billion yen.  Operating results for this segment are likely to exceed the
July forecast, Sony said in the statement, without providing a
specific figure.  Greater Inventory  Inventory at the two divisions rose 7.4 percent from a year
earlier to 819.9 billion yen. Compared with the April-to-June
quarter, the stock increased 25 percent.  Second-quarter losses at the film unit totaled 4.8 billion
yen, worse than analyst estimates for a 2.8 billion yen loss.
Operating income at Sony’s music unit declined to 8.1 billion
yen, while that at the financial services segment jumped 31
percent to 43 billion yen.  Sony maintained its target to sell 15 million PS3 machines,
about 196 million game titles and 8.8 million personal computers.  The company revised its assumptions for the yen exchange
rate to the dollar to 83 yen for the six months from Oct. 1,
from 90 yen projected three months ago. The company kept its
assumption for the euro at 110 yen.  Japan’s largest exporter of TV loses about 7 billion yen of
annual operating profit for every 1 yen decline in the value of
the euro and 2 billion yen for every 1 yen the dollar weakens.  Yen Appreciation  The yen gained 17 percent against the euro and 11 percent
against the dollar in the first nine months of 2010, the best
performer among 17 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. A
stronger yen damps the value of overseas earnings at Japanese
exporters when repatriated.  Earlier this month, Sony started offering Internet-enabled
TVs in the U.S. that use  Google Inc.  software to let viewers
access websites and Web videos. The company is considering
offering a 3-D version of the web-connected set. Sales of 3-D
sets will probably account for about 10 percent of Sony’s total
volume this fiscal year, it said in March.  The TV industry “is heading towards harsh competition in
terms of marketing and prices,” Chief Financial Officer  Masaru Kato  said at a briefing in Tokyo. “It’s looking difficult to
bring the TV operations profitable this fiscal year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 