-- Sony, Samsung Face `Miserable' Christmas Amid Price War
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2010-10-30T00:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/sony-samsung-brace-for-miserable-christmas-sales-as-tv-price-war-looms.html
TVs are about to get cheaper.  Sony Corp.  gave up yesterday on a goal to profit from
televisions this fiscal year and Panasonic Corp. forecast price
drops will deepen this quarter. Earlier, Samsung Electronics Co.
predicted “severe” competition for the year-end season,
echoing comments from LG Electronics Inc. a day earlier.  Projections from the world’s four largest TV makers signal
the industry will fail to capitalize on the biggest sales
quarter of the year, with some  analysts  predicting price
declines of as much as 25 percent in 2010. Companies from
Microsoft Corp. to Intel Corp. are increasingly counting on
corporate demand as consumers are reluctant to shop.  “There’s going to be a price war this Christmas season and
there’s no way around that,” said  Tsutomu Yamada , a market
analyst at kabu.com Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The whole
strategy this year is ‘sell earlier and sell for less.’ That
makes life miserable for the manufacturers.”  TV makers were betting earlier this year that pricier LED
TVs with brighter screens or 3-D sets would keep prices from
falling the typical 20 percent to 25 percent annually, according
to  Atul Goyal , a senior research analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets in Singapore. That bet hasn’t materialized as pessimism
has increased recently and shoppers in the U.S. aren’t willing
to pay extra for higher quality sets.  ‘I’ll Wait’  “Consumers are saying, ‘I like the product but I don’t
want to pay a 30 percent premium to the other one. I’ll wait,”
Goyal said. “Prices will have to come down. That’s a given.”  U.S. retailers such as Target Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
are sweetening discounts ahead of the holiday season to move
merchandise as joblessness hovers near a 26-year high. Target,
the second-biggest discount retailer behind Wal-Mart, said this
month it would lower prices on more than 1,000 toys to attract
shoppers. Wal-Mart responded with its own discounts.  Sony Chief Financial Officer  Masaru Kato  said yesterday the
maker of Bravia TVs is forecasting a loss from the business this
fiscal year and the company is bracing for “harsh” competition.
Sales of 3-D sets, projected to account for 10 percent of the 25
million annual TV target, are trailing Sony’s previous
expectations, he said.  While Tokyo-based Sony raised its full-year net income
forecast 17 percent to 70 billion yen ($867 million) yesterday,
the world’s third-largest TV maker attributed the increase to
better-than-expected earnings from games and computers during
the quarter ended Sept. 30 and said it’s “cautious” on the
outlook for the rest of the year.  Cutting Forecasts  Full-year profit at Sony’s main electronics unit that makes
TVs will be lower than anticipated in July, the company said
yesterday, without specifying numbers.  Panasonic, the world’s  biggest  maker of plasma TVs, said
yesterday falling prices, the stronger yen and more expensive
raw materials prevented the maker of Viera TVs from raising its
full-year profit forecast even though earnings during the first
half exceeded the company’s projections. The yen trading near a
15-year high against the dollar isn’t helping.  “The strong yen will be a major hurdle in the TV business
in the second half,”  Hideaki Kawai , the executive officer in
charge of finance and accounting at Panasonic, said in Osaka
yesterday. “It’s an extremely severe situation.”  South Korea’s Samsung and LG, the world’s two-biggest TV
makers, have voiced similar concerns after the advantage of
having a weaker won, the worst-performing major Asian currency
from April to June, dissipated. The won’s 5.3 percent gain
against the dollar since September makes it the region’s best
performer during the period.  ‘Severe’ Competition  Samsung yesterday forecast earnings are poised to fall from
their  record high  in the three months ended Sept. 30 and said
competition in the TV market will be “severe” during the
fourth quarter.  “We expect increased oversupply and price declines in the
memory market, as well we possible further declines in LCD
panels,” said Robert Yi, vice president of investor relations
at Samsung. “Combining these with a possible appreciation of
the won, we expect the overall fourth-quarter business
conditions to be difficult.”  Fourth-quarter prices of LG sets will probably fall as much
as 8 percent from the preceding three-month period, as TV makers
clear mounting inventory, Chief Financial Officer  David Jung 
said on Oct. 28.  Global LCD television shipments may increase 24 percent to
180 million units in 2010, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
said in an Oct. 19 report, lowering its previous growth estimate
of 29 percent. Merrill cited weak demand in the U.S. and Europe,
as well as high inventory for the revision.  “The Christmas season makes or breaks you and this year
you’ve got  unemployment  and deflation,” said Yamada of  kabu.com
Securities .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 