-- South Africa Posts an Unexpected Trade Surplus as Iron Ore Exports Rebound
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-29T13:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/south-africa-posts-unexpected-trade-surplus-as-iron-ore-exports-rebound.html
South Africa posted an unexpected
trade surplus in September after iron-ore shipments resumed
following a rail accident, boosting exports.  The surplus of 3.6 billion rand ($516 million) followed a
deficit of 4.7 billion rand in August, the  South African Revenue
Service  said in an e-mailed statement today. The median estimate
of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a shortfall of
2.3 billion rand.  South Africa may return to trade deficits as the rand’s 9
percent gain against the dollar since June 1 curbs export growth
and an economic recovery fuels imports, said  Kevin Lings , an
economist at Stanlib Asset Management in Johannesburg.  “Exports are likely to struggle to accelerate
significantly into 2011, given the still-strong rand,” Lings
said in an e-mailed note to clients. “The trade balance could
be under some pressure over the coming 12 to 24 months.”  The rand was at 6.9612 against the dollar as of 3:11 p.m.
in Johannesburg from 6.9883 before the data was released.  Iron-ore exports increased last month after Transnet Ltd.,
the state-owned port and rail operator, reopened its Sishen-
Saldanha railroad on July 28 following a derailment that forced
a six-day shutdown. Exports of mineral products, which include
coal and iron ore, surged 27 percent, or 2.6 billion rand, in
September as companies caught up with the backlog, the revenue
service said.  Derailment Losses  The 861-kilometer (535-mile) railway carries about 34
million metric tons of iron-ore exports a year from mines near
Sishen in the Northern Cape to the port at Saldanha in the
Western Cape, according to Transnet.  Total exports rose 9.6 percent to 53.2 billion rand in
September from the previous month, boosted also by a 21 percent
increase in precious-metal exports, the revenue service said.
Imports declined 6.9 percent to 49.5 billion rand, mainly due to
a 35 percent slump in vehicle and aircraft purchases.  Rising export demand helped limit South Africa’s trade
deficit to 9.5 billion rand in the first nine months of the
year, almost half the 18.5 billion rand shortfall posted in the
same period last year, according to the revenue service.  That may help to narrow the deficit in the  current account ,
the broadest measure of trade in goods and services, which
reached 2.5 percent of gross domestic product in the second
quarter, the lowest level in more than six years. The smaller
current-account gap has helped to underpin the rand.  South African Trade figures are often volatile, reflecting
the timing of shipments of commodities such as oil and diamonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 