-- South African Benchmark Interest Rate Poised for Ninth Drop on Inflation
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-29T14:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/south-african-benchmark-interest-rate-poised-for-ninth-drop-on-inflation.html
South Africa may lower interest
rates next month for the ninth time in two years as slowing
economic growth and easing inflation give policy makers more
room to cut borrowing costs, forward-rate agreements show.  Money-market futures used by traders to gauge rate
expectations fell to a record low this week as speculation
intensified that Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  will announce
a reduction in the 6 percent benchmark rate when the next
decision is announced on Nov. 18. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said this week that the government is targeting “looser
monetary policy” to help grow the economy.  Forward-rate agreements for  three-month cash contracts due
in three months  fell to 5.59 percent yesterday, the lowest level
since the central bank first introduced its repurchase rate in
1999. The rate held steady at 5.59 percent as of 3:46 p.m. in
Johannesburg, after reaching 5.58 percent earlier today.  “Our house view is that we expect a 50 basis-point cut at
the November meeting,”  Kgotso Radira , an economist at Investec
Group Economics in Johannesburg, said in a telephone interview.
“The economy is slowing and the inflation outlook over the
short-term has improved.”  South Africa’s monetary policy makers have lowered their
benchmark interest rate  eight times  since December 2008 to help
stimulate  economic growth , which slowed to 3.2 percent in the
second quarter, from 4.6 percent in the first.  Inflation  in
Africa’s biggest economy has eased as the rand’s 34 percent
rally against the dollar since the start of last year helped
curb the cost of oil and other imports.  Inflation  Reports this week showed consumer price growth slowed to a
five-year low of 3.2 percent in September, while  producer
inflation  decelerated to a lower-than-estimated 6.8 percent.  “Expectations of further monetary policy easing” have
increased,  Standard Bank Group Ltd. , Africa’s biggest lender,
said in a client note today. “Standard Bank now expects a 50
basis-point cut at next month’s monetary policy committee
meeting.”  Government bonds rose for a second day today, with the
benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015 adding 20
cents to 126.13 rand, sending the yield down four basis points
to 7.06 percent, headed for the lowest close since at least
November 2004 when Bloomberg began tracking the data. The bond
was first issued in January 1991.  South Africa is likely to lower its 6 percent benchmark
interest rate by 25 basis points at its next meeting, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and RBC Capital Markets said in client
notes yesterday. Royal Bank of Scotland said it expects that to
be the “final” reduction in the current monetary policy easing
cycle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  