-- Rand Strengthens, Reversing Losses, After Unexpected Monthly Trade Surplus
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-10-29T14:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/south-african-rand-falls-before-report-that-may-show-2nd-monthly-trade-gap.html
The rand strengthened after South
Africa unexpectedly posted a monthly trade surplus, easing
concern the currency’s strength is hurting the economy and
reducing the need for foreign capital inflows to fund the gap.  The rand appreciated as much as 0.8 percent to 6.9398 per
dollar and traded at 6.9605 by 4:45 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a
close of 6.9920 yesterday. The move reversed an earlier decline
of as much as 0.7 percent to 7.0397 per dollar and extended the
rand’s advance this past month to 0.3 percent.  The surplus of 3.6 billion rand ($513 million) followed a
deficit of 4.7 billion rand in August after iron-ore shipments
resumed following an accident on the main Sishen-Saldanha
railroad that forced it to be shut for six days, the South
African Revenue Service said in an e-mailed statement today. A
 median estimate  of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
a 2.3 billion-rand shortfall.  “It’s good news for the  current-account  deficit,” Freddie
Mitchell, an economist with Efficient Group, said. “It’s good
for economic growth. The market reacted very positively.”  Labor unions and manufacturers have argued that the rand’s
35 percent surge versus the dollar since the start of last year
is making exports less competitive and costing jobs.  The rally in the rand has been fuelled by foreign purchases
of South African stocks and bonds, which have risen to a net
87.5 billion rand so far this year, according to data from the
 JSE Ltd. , the company that runs the nation’s exchanges.  “Even though we have a strong rand and manufacturers are
complaining about suffering exports, we’re seeing that’s clearly
not the case,” Mitchell said.  South Africa’s  current account , the broadest measure of
trade in goods and services, reached 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product in the second quarter. South Africa relies on
foreign purchases of its assets to fund the shortfall and
prevent the rand from weakening.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net 
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  