-- Spain Jobless Rate Falls for First Time in Three Years; Inflation Rises
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-10-29T13:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/spain-jobless-rate-falls-for-first-time-in-three-years-inflation-rises.html
Spain’s jobless rate, the highest in
 Europe , unexpectedly fell for the first time in more than three
years and an increase in sales tax aimed at cutting the budget
gap pushed up the inflation rate to the highest in two years.  The  unemployment  rate fell to 19.8 percent in the third
quarter, from 20.1 percent in the previous three months, the
National Statistics Institute said today. Economists expected
the rate to remain unchanged, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey.  Consumer prices  rose 2.2 percent in
October from a year earlier, accelerating from 2.1 percent
increase the previous month, the Madrid-based institute said.  Spain emerged from the worst  recession  in six decades in
the first half, led by a surge in exports. Falling unemployment
will start to ease pressure on the third-largest budget deficit
in the euro region and may help the Socialist government, whose
popularity has slumped in opinion polls.  The unemployment rate fell as the active population --
workers and people looking for work -- was unchanged in the
quarter, after growing in the first two quarters of the year,
the statistics institute said.  “The pace of job destruction has slowed, but there’s still
a long way to go before we can think about a recovery in
employment in Spain,” said  Estefania Ponte , the Madrid-based
head of research at Cortal Consors, who correctly forecast the
third-quarter jobless rate.  ‘Turning Point’  The data signaled the labor market has reached a “turning
point,” Deputy Finance Minister  Jose Manuel Campa  told a news
conference in Madrid today.  Around 75 percent of the unemployed in Spain receive some
kind of government subsidy, according to Labor Ministry data.
That helped swell the budget  deficit  to 11.1 percent of gross
domestic product last year, the third-largest in the region.
Aiming to cut that by half in two years, Spain is implementing
the deepest fiscal cuts in three decades.  Those measures, including a public wage cut and pension
freeze, may undermine the recovery, and the government cut its
own economic forecast for next year to 1.3 percent from 1.8
percent to reflect the impact of the budget squeeze. Bank of
Spain Governor  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said on Oct. 5
that the economy showed a “clear weakening” in the third
quarter. The central bank is due to publish its third-quarter
GDP estimate next week.  ‘Difficult Path’  While the job data were “positive,” Spain still faces “a
long and difficult path ahead for employment to recover,” Prime
Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  told a news conference in
Brussels today. “It’s a very arduous task.”  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of German equivalents rose to 163.7 basis points
from 162.7 basis points yesterday. The spread has fallen from a
euro-era high of 221 basis points in June.  Zapatero, a union member who was re-elected in 2008 on
pledges of full employment, has seen his popularity decline in
the polls. The opposition People’s Party has a 13.4 point lead
over the ruling party, a poll published by Publico newspaper
showed on Oct. 11.  The austerity measures also included an increase in value-
added tax on July 1, which sent prices higher even as weak
demand meant retail sales fell in September for a third month.
In August, the higher tax rate accounted for more than half of
the 1.8 percent inflation rate, the institute said on Oct. 14.  The statistics office will publish final inflation data
with a full breakdown on Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  