-- Ssangyong Jumps After Mahindra Takeover Approved by Antitrust Commission
-- B y   N e i l   D e n s l o w   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-10-29T07:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/ssangyong-jumps-after-mahindra-takeover-approved-by-antitrust-commission.html
Ssangyong Motor Co. , the South
Korean automaker under bankruptcy protection, rose the most in
four months in Seoul trading after  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. ’s
takeover plan was approved by Korea’s antitrust regulator.  Ssangyong  jumped by the daily limit of 15 percent, the most
since June 24, to 10,500 won at the 3 p.m. trading close on the
Korea Exchange, while the benchmark Kospi index fell 1.3 percent.
Mahindra rose as much as 1.7 percent to 745.3 rupees in Mumbai.  The planned acquisition of Ssangyong by India’s largest
sport-utility vehicle maker was approved today by South Korea’s
 Fair Trade Commission , which said in an e-mailed statement the
combination of the two companies is unlikely to hurt competition
in the domestic market. Mahindra, the maker of Scorpio SUVs, is
seeking to benefit from the South Korean automaker’s technology
and international sales network.  “It’s a procedural step for Mahindra to pursue the
Ssangyong deal,” said  Song Sang Hoon , head of research at Kyobo
Securities Co. in Seoul. “How much synergy the takeover will
bring to Ssangyong remains to be seen.”  Ssangyong expects the FTC’s approval to help speed progress
of the ongoing talks with Mahindra to close the acquisition,
 Chung Mu Young , a spokesman for the Pyeongtaek, South Korea-
based carmaker, said by telephone.  Roma Balwani , a spokeswoman
for Mahindra, declined to comment on the FTC’s statement.  Mahindra, which was named the preferred bidder for
Ssangyong in August, hopes to complete the acquisition as early
as February after signing the final agreement by year-end,  Anand Mahindra , vice chairman of the Indian automaker, said on Oct. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  