-- Standard Bank Cuts Jobs as Africa's Largest Bank Braces for Revenue Slump
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-29T12:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/standard-bank-to-fire-4-of-south-african-workers-cut-13-of-london-jobs.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd ., Africa’s
largest lender, said it will cut 4 percent of its South African
workforce and 13 percent of its London employees to prepare for
a possible decline in full-year revenue.  “Revenues have been falling at an increasing rate,” Chief
Executive Officer  Jacko Maree  told reporters in Johannesburg
today, adding that the environment for banking in South Africa
“remains very tough.” The outlook for revenue in the year
through December is “flat, maybe down,” he said.  Standard Bank will make redundant 1,145 permanent South
African jobs, including 65 executives, 670 managers and 410
general staff, and cut 600 contract jobs in the country, it said
in a statement. In London, 160 permanent roles will be
terminated, including 40 executives, 75 managers and 45 general
staff, with another 110 contract jobs ended, it said.  Standard Bank’s cost-to-income  ratio  of 58.1 percent at the
end of the first half compares with South African rivals Absa
Group Ltd.’s 54 percent,  Nedbank Group Ltd.’s  55 percent and
FirstRand Ltd.’s 57 percent for the full year through June.
Standard Bank’s staff costs increased 6 percent to 9.5 billion
rand ($1.36 billion), accounting for more than half of operating
expenses, in the first six months of the year.  Standard Bank will also scale back and delay some projects,
especially in information technology, reduce marketing and
sponsorship deals and has canceled conferences and year-end
functions, it said. With hindsight, the company should’ve acted
sooner, Maree said.  Employee Consultations  Managers make up 31 percent of Standard Bank’s workforce
while global benchmarks indicate it should be closer to 20
percent, Deputy CEO  Sim Tshabalala  said. The company will
complete consultations with its employees by next week, he said.  The lender’s private banking division in South Africa and
London will be affected while the private equity unit in South
Africa is being re-organized, Maree said. No other “general
retrenchments” are planned, he said, adding that decisions on
bonuses to executives will be made in February.  Standard Bank wants to focus on emerging nations after
expanding in Russia, Argentina, Nigeria and other African
markets faster than local competitors. The company’s share price
is the worst-performing of the five-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks
Index  this year, rising less than 1 percent compared with an
average increase of 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 