-- Stocks May Rally 10% After Fed's Announcement on Easing, Barton Biggs Says
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2010-10-29T21:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/stocks-may-rally-10-after-fed-s-announcement-on-easing-barton-biggs-says.html
U.S.  stocks  may gain 10 percent
should the Federal Reserve announce a program of asset purchases
known as quantitative easing, and emerging-market shares will
keep rising, according to hedge-fund manager  Barton Biggs .  “The conventional wisdom is the markets are going to
probably sell off,” Biggs, managing partner of New York-based
Traxis Partners LLC, said in an interview today with  Betty Liu 
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” Investors may in fact
get a “surprise” with “another 10 percent rally.”  Fed policy makers meet Nov. 2-3 to consider steps to boost
an economy that’s growing too slowly to reduce unemployment near
a 26-year high. The central bank has asked bond dealers and
investors for projections of central bank asset purchases over
the next six months as it seeks to gauge the possible impact of
new efforts to spur growth.  The  S&P 500  has risen as much as 16 percent from this
year’s low in July as more than 70 percent of its companies  beat 
the average profit estimate for the sixth straight quarter, the
longest streak in Bloomberg data going back to 1993, and
speculation the Fed will buy bonds to stimulate the economy. The
benchmark index for U.S. equities fell less than 0.1 percent to
1,183.26 as of 4 p.m. today in New York.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of equities in 21 nations
has gained 29 percent since its 2010 low in May, and surged 143
percent since October 2008, when it reached the weakest level in
four years. The Shanghai Composite Index has rallied 26 percent
since reaching its 2010 low on July 5, while Brazil’s Bovespa
index has jumped 21 percent since May 20.  “We are only halfway along the way to a gigantic eventual
bubble in the emerging markets,” Biggs said. “But we are not
there yet, the fundamentals are too strong, too good, too much
growth, and the valuations are still attractive.”  It would be a mistake for government stimulus measures to
stop because the world economy is still in a “very dangerous
position,” the 77-year-old investor said.  “The Fed is doing the right thing,” he said. “Our
government is not doing the right thing. We are still yammering
away about fiscal austerity. We need more economic growth, and
we need to make sure that we don’t tip ourselves and the world
back into another recession. The price of that is going to be a
bubble at some point.”  Budget Deficit  The U.S. government posted its second straight annual
budget deficit in excess of $1 trillion as lingering
unemployment constrained tax revenue. The shortfall totaled
$1.294 trillion in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, second only
to the $1.416 trillion deficit in 2009, the Treasury Department
said Oct. 15. President  Barack Obama  formed a commission in
February charged with presenting a plan by Dec. 1 on how to
reduce deficits over the next decade.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter as consumer spending climbed the most in almost
four years, Commerce Department data showed today in Washington.
Central bankers meeting next week are concerned growth is too
slow to lower an unemployment rate stuck near 10 percent and are
seeking ways to prevent a drop in prices that would hurt the
recovery.  Biggs said the “most attractive plays” for investors are
technology stocks and pharmaceuticals. He said oil-services
companies have fallen too much. The  S&P 500 Pharmaceuticals,
Biotechnology & Life Sciences Index  gained 1.5 percent this year
through yesterday, trailing the 6.2 percent advance in the main
index for U.S. equities. Technology companies rose 5.7 percent
while  the Philadelphia Oil Service Sector Index  rallied 7.7
percent year-to-date.  Sold, Bought in July  Biggs said in a July 2 interview that he’d sold stocks
aggressively, including most of his U.S. technology holdings,
cutting his equity holdings to about 35 percent of his assets.
Three weeks later, he told Bloomberg News that shares made up 75
percent of his Traxis fund as the S&P 500 headed for a 6.9
percent July rally.  Traxis gained 38 percent in 2009 after Biggs bought shares
as the S&P 500 fell to a 12-year low in March. He said at the
beginning of September 2010 that investors shouldn’t be
underinvested in stocks as he got more bullish on the world
economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  