-- Sugarcane Crushing in India Faces Delay as Farmers, Mills Spar on Prices
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2010-10-29T11:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/sugarcane-crushing-in-india-faces-delay-as-farmers-mills-spar-on-prices.html
Sugarcane crushing in India’s
biggest growing state may be delayed after mills and farmers
failed to agree on cane prices, a grower’s group said.  Farmers in Uttar Pradesh want at least 300 rupees ($6.74)
per 100 kilograms (220 pounds), Avdhesh Mishra, president of the
Cane Committees’ Association, said by telephone from the state’s
capital Lucknow today. The mills offered to pay not more than
170 rupees per 100 kilograms, he said.  The price dispute may delay production of the new sugarcane
crop in India and hinder government plans to ease export curbs
on the sweetener to benefit from the highest price in eight
months. Raw-sugar futures have surged partly on concern that
adverse weather will reduce output from Brazil, the biggest
shipper.  “Unless there is an agreement between mills and farmers on
cane price, crushing will not start,” Mishra said. “Mills are
not going to begin crushing before Nov. 15 due to differences
with farmers on price as well as late rains.”  C.B. Patodia , president of the UP Sugar Mills Association,
didn’t respond to calls made on his mobile. Mills want the cane
price to be linked to the open market rate of sugar, Mishra
said.  India’s government may consider allowing foreign shipments
under the open general license plan in the second week of
November, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said Oct. 27. The nation
may export 2.5 million tons of sugar this crop year, according
to G.S.C. Rao, chief executive officer of local miller Simbhaoli
Sugars Ltd.  Raw-sugar futures have more than doubled from a 13-month
low on May 7, partly on concern about a smaller Brazilian crop.
The contract for March delivery reached 29.59 cents, the highest
intra-day level for a most-active contract since Feb. 3 on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  