-- Australian Sugar Output Forecasts Cut by Wet Weather
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-29T05:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/sugar-production-forecasts-for-australia-cut-by-rains-amid-supply-concern.html
Sugar production forecasts in
Australia, the third-largest exporter, were cut by producers’
group Canegrowers and National  Australia  Bank Ltd. because of
rain, as prices rise amid concerns about tight global supplies.  Output may drop to 4 million metric tons, Steve Greenwood,
chief executive officer of Canegrowers said today by phone from
Brisbane, down from a previous forecast of 4.2 million tons. The
Melbourne-based National bank cuts its estimate to 4.1 million
tons in a report, down from 4.3 million tons estimated earlier
this year and production of 4.5 million tons in 2009.  Sugar prices in  New York  rose to an eight-month high
yesterday after floods hurt crops in  Thailand  and following dry
weather in cane-growing areas of Brazil, the largest exporter. A
La Nina event has brought record  rain  to Australia, according to
the Bureau of Meteorology, hindering harvesting and reducing the
sugar content in cane compared with a year earlier.  “Prices continue to be supported by bullish news, with  Brazil ,  India  and Australia facing a worse or more uncertain
outlook than earlier thought,” Michael Creed, agribusiness
economist at National Australia, wrote in a rural commodities
report e-mailed today. A weak dollar and higher soft commodity
prices were helping underpin futures, he said.  Raw sugar for March delivery rose 0.4 percent to 28.71
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York yesterday. The
price earlier reached 29.59 cents, the highest level for a most-
active contract since Feb. 3.  Harvest Progress  Harvesting in Australia was about 70 percent complete,
Canegrowers said, compared with at least 80 percent normally for
late October. Production last season was 4.4 million tons,
according to the group.  Exports may be “slightly less” than an earlier outlook
for 2.9 million tons, Neil Taylor, chief executive officer of
Queensland Sugar Ltd. said yesterday in an interview after an
agri-business dinner in  Melbourne . The  company  handles more than
90 percent of the country’s raw sugar shipments.  “We would be about 80 percent to 90 percent sold,” he
said. “The market for sugar in  Asia  is fundamentally tight and
there is no sign of that easing in the short to medium term.”  Any price decline could depend on a larger-than-expected
production in India, which may favor shipments of white sugar
because of the price premium over raw supplies, Taylor said.  “The world at the moment believes they are going to make
whites, which will tighten the raw sugar market further,” he
said.  China Demand  National Australia said it had doubled its forecast for  China ’s imports in 2010-11 to 2 million tons as the early import
pace outstripped previous levels. Demand levels by importing
countries in the first quarter of calendar 2011 would be “key”
to prices, it said.  “If any major consumer has not re-stocked and has large
open demand in the first quarter of 2011, they will have very
few options,” the bank said.  The global sugar surplus may be 2 million tons for
2010-2011, down from 3.22 million forecast two months ago,  Sergey Gudoshnikov , economist at the London-based International
Sugar Organization, said in an interview Oct. 26.  La Nina weather, characterized by cooling temperatures in
the tropical  Pacific Ocean , is forecast to persist into at least
early next year, according to Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  