-- U.K. Lenders Approve More Mortgages Than Forecast
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-29T09:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/u-k-lenders-approved-more-mortgages-in-september-than-economists-forecast.html
U.K. lenders approved more  mortgages 
than economists forecast in September, signaling a slowdown in
the housing market may not be as severe as some reports had
indicated.  Lenders granted 47,474 loans to buy homes, compared with
47,498 in August, the Bank of England said today in London.
Economists forecast approvals would decline to 46,000, according
to the median of 17 estimates in Bloomberg News survey.
Approvals are about half the peak of the property boom in 2007.  House prices are falling as more properties are put on sale
and buyers’ appetite is hurt by the biggest budget cuts since
World War II, which will wipe out half a million jobs. While
data this week showed the  U.K. economy  grew faster than expected
in the third quarter, mortgage lender Halifax said Oct. 7 that
home values dropped in September by most since at least 1983.  Approvals “are still low,”  Hetal Mehta , a U.K. economist
at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Ltd. in London, said in a
telephone interview. “The fact they didn’t fall further isn’t
particularly comforting. It’s not going to change the fact we
are going to have a double dip in the housing market.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
report, and traded at $1.5902 as of 10:12 a.m. in London from
$1.5946 yesterday.  A separate report by Nationwide Building Society showed
yesterday that  home values  fell in October to the lowest level
in eight months. The average cost of a home dropped by 0.7
percent from September to 164,381 pounds ($261,447).  ‘More Traction’  “Mortgage approvals won’t fall significantly further from
here, but it will be very difficult to see us returning to pre-
crisis levels over the next decade,” said  Azad Zangana , chief
European economist at Schroder Investment Management Ltd. in
London. “We’ll find a new normal at some stage and that will be
above the levels we’re seeing today. But we need to see more
traction in the recovery.”  Net mortgage lending was 112 million pounds ($178 million)
in September, compared with 1.6 billion pounds the previous
month, the Bank of England said. Gross home loans amounted to 11
billion pounds.  Data are painting a mixed picture about the health of the
U.K. economy before the Bank of England decides whether to add
more stimulus to the economy next week. While the housing market
is slowing, gross domestic product expanded twice as fast as
economists had forecast in the third quarter and a separate
release today showed U.K. consumer confidence unexpectedly rose
in October.  ‘Ebbed Away’  Homebuyer confidence “slowly ebbed away during the
summer” on concern about the budget squeeze and has since then
“picked up, albeit only slightly,”  Howard Dawe , chairman of
U.K. homebuilder Bellway Plc, said on Oct. 19.  Consumers added a net 262 million pounds to unsecured
borrowings last month, the Bank of England said. Credit-card
lending rose a net 185 million pounds, while personal loans and
overdrafts increased by 77 million pounds, the most in four
months.  The Bank of England this month kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent this month and
held its bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds. Policy maker
 Adam Posen  has called on the central bank to restart its asset
purchases to aid growth, while  Andrew Sentance  has argued the
economy is strong enough to withstand an interest-rate increase.  A measure of M4 money-supply growth that the central bank
uses to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases fell to
0.3 percent in the three months through September on an
annualized basis, from 4.1 percent in August. The gauge excludes
financial companies that specialize in intermediating between
banks, such as holding companies and non-bank credit grantors.  M4, the broadest measure of money supply, fell 0.2 percent
on the month and was up 1 percent on the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  