-- U.K. Higher-Rate Taxpayers Will Face Fines If Child Benefits Not Declared
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-29T12:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/u-k-higher-rate-taxpayers-will-face-fines-if-child-benefits-not-declared.html
The U.K. Treasury said it will fine
higher-rate taxpayers if they fail to declare that they or their
partners receive child benefits, after the government changed
eligibility rules for the state-funded payments.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced Oct. 4
the removal of child benefits from 2013 that will hit 1.5
million families with at least one parent earning more than
about 44,000 pounds ($70,000) a year under current tax
thresholds. That means a family in which both parents earned
43,000 pounds would retain the benefit, putting some households
with one earner at a disadvantage.  The measure will save the government 2.5 billion pounds a
year from 2013. It’s part of a bid to slash the welfare bill
among 81 billion pounds of spending cuts Osborne set out last
week to narrow Britain’s  record budget deficit .  The Revenue and Customs agency, which administers taxes,
“will take action in cases of non-disclosure of information
which is relevant to a person’s tax affairs,” the Treasury said
in an e-mailed statement today. “This will include the issuing
of penalties.”  “I don’t start from the proposition we are all appalling
cheats and liars and tax evaders,” Prime Minister  David Cameron 
told a news conference in Brussels today. “I am quite sure that
this change will secure the very generous revenue that the
Office for Budget Responsibility has penciled in.”  ‘Virtually Unenforceable’  Some lawmakers have argued that the proposal is flawed
because it requires complete honesty between couples about their
financial affairs and there would be complications if couples
break up. Conservative  Ian Liddell-Grainger  said today the plan
for fines by would be “virtually unenforceable.”  “The system is going to creak and may well fail and the
ramifications for getting it wrong will be huge for taxpayers in
the U.K.,” Liddell-Grainger told BBC Radio 4’s “Today”
program. “Although the Revenue is one of the most intrusive
institutions, they can’t move at the pace needed for changes
like this and we need rethinking on revenue collections.”  The opposition Labour Party’s Treasury spokesman,  Alan Johnson , said it was “increasingly clear” that the child-
benefit plans “simply haven’t been thought through” and wrote
to Osborne asking him to clarify how the policy would work in
practice.  ‘How Many Nights?’  “If a single mother meets a new partner who is a higher-
rate taxpayer -- how many nights would they need to spend
together for her to be disqualified from child benefit?”
Johnson wrote, citing one example. “Would she have to keep a
record of the number of nights she stayed with him? Would the
answer vary if the nights were spent in her property or his?”  The Treasury described criticism that the measure can’t be
implemented as “nonsense.”  “The withdrawal of child benefit for higher-rate taxpayers
will be enforceable and will go ahead in 2013,” it said in the
statement.  The payment is worth 1,055 pounds a year for the first
child and 696 pounds a year for each subsequent child. It costs
12 billion pounds a year and is paid to 7.8 million families,
according to Treasury figures. Legislation will be brought
forward to implement the change, the Treasury said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in Brussels at  tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  