-- U.S. Stocks Fluctuate as GDP Data Match Economist Forecast; Chevron Falls
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-29T16:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/u-s-stocks-fluctuate-as-gdp-data-match-economist-forecast-chevron-falls.html
U.S. stocks swung between gains and
losses, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index trimming its second
straight monthly advance, as the market digested a new report on
economic growth that matched economist forecasts.  Chevron Corp. declined 1.7 percent after its earnings were
below analyst estimates.  Microsoft Corp.  rose 1.5 percent after
the biggest software maker reported profit that topped
predictions.  Monster Worldwide Inc.  soared 26 percent after
raising its fourth-quarter forecast.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.1 percent to 1,183.06 as of 12:18 p.m.
in New York. The gauge had risen 3.7 percent in October through
yesterday on better-than-estimated corporate earnings and
speculation the Federal Reserve will buy bonds to stimulate the
economy, a practice known as quantitative easing. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average lost 5.76 points, or 0.1 percent, to
11,108.19.  “The GDP number was OK and probably baked into investors’
expectations,” said  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist
at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital Management, which manages
$342 billion. “The figures also suggest that the Fed might be
doing less than what some people expected.”  Most U.S. stocks fell yesterday as 3M Co. drove industrial
shares lower after cutting its profit forecast, helping erase an
early gain triggered by Exxon Mobil Corp.’s better-than-
estimated earnings report. The S&P 500 has risen as much as 16
percent from its 2010 low in July.  GDP Growth  The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter as consumer spending climbed the most in almost
four years, a sign the expansion is developing staying power.
The increase in gross domestic product matched the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a
1.7 percent gain the prior three months.  “It’s slow growth at best,” said  Richard Sichel , who
oversees $1.5 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co. “There’s no surprise in the GDP figures.
Consumer spending is growing, but not as much as we would like.
It seems that unemployment will stay high for the foreseeable
future. That most likely calls for further quantitative easing
next week.”  Confidence among U.S. consumers fell in October to the
lowest level in almost a year, which may temper the biggest part
of the economy. Another report showed that business activity in
the U.S. unexpectedly accelerated in October, signaling
corporate and consumer spending are holding up after the economy
expanded at a faster pace in the third quarter.  ‘Lackluster’  “We may not be out of the woods, but I wouldn’t get too
negative here,” said  Eric Teal , chief investment officer at
First Citizens Bancshares Inc. in Raleigh, North Carolina, which
manages $5 billion. “The lackluster economic numbers really
suggest the Fed will have to implement more aggressive stimulus
measures. On the other hand, as business confidence improves,
we’ll get a better jobs picture and ultimately investors’
psychology will improve. That will be gradual though.”  Chevron sank 1.7 percent to $82.97. The second-largest U.S.
energy company posted an unexpected drop in net income, bucking
the trend of bigger profits among its peers, after a jump in
costs erased gains from higher crude prices and record
production.  Genworth Financial Inc. had the biggest decline in the S&P
500, slumping 11 percent to $11.25. The mortgage guarantor and
life insurer reported third-quarter operating income excluding
some investment results of 6 cents a share, missing the 26-cent
average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Microsoft  Microsoft Corp. rose 1.5 percent to $26.66. The world’s
largest software maker reported first-quarter earnings of 62
cents a share, beating an average estimate of 55 cents as
corporate customers stepped up purchases of computers and the
programs that run on them.  Monster Worldwide Inc. jumped 26 percent to $18.10 for the
biggest gain in the S&P 500. The world’s largest online-
recruiting company forecast adjusted earnings in the fourth
quarter of as much as 8 cents a share, higher than the 5-cent
average analyst estimate.  Earnings at 249 of the 310 companies in the  S&P 500  that
have reported results since Oct. 7 have beaten analysts’ per-
share earnings estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict 26 percent
growth in third-quarter profit from a year earlier for S&P 500
companies, the fourth straight quarterly increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at   mregan12@bloomberg.net . 