-- U.S, Japan Seek to Calm China Tensions Over Disputed Islands
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-30T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/u-s-japan-push-for-maritime-code-as-encounters-with-china-fan-tensions.html
The U.S. and Japan sought to ease
tensions with China fueled by territorial disputes in waters off
its coast that have hindered talks on currency and trade
policies before a Group of 20 summit next month.  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan told reporters he met for
10 minutes yesterday with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao after a
spat over a disputed island chain in the East China Sea scuttled
more formal talks. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton offered to
host a meeting to mediate between the two sides while repeating
a U.S. legal obligation to defend Japan’s claims.  “We’ve encouraged both Japan and China to seek a peaceful
resolution of any disagreement,” Clinton said in a speech in
Hanoi, where she attended a regional summit with Wen, Kan and 15
other Asia-Pacific leaders. “It’s in all of our interests to
have stable, peaceful relations” between China and Japan, she
said.  The moves aimed to calm a feud between the world’s three
biggest economies after China lashed out at Japan and the U.S.
for statements about the island chain. The conflict has
distracted Asian leaders as they prepare to iron out a global
deal on currency policy at next month’s G-20 meeting in Seoul.  Clinton “made very clear we want the temperature to go
down,” a U.S. official who briefed reporters on the condition
of anonymity said after Clinton met Chinese Foreign Minister
Yang Jiechi. “The stakes are so high.”  Ruined Atmosphere  Japan ruined the atmosphere for talks between Wen and Kan
by giving “untrue” media statements, the state-run Xinhua News
Agency cited Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister Hu Zhengyue as
saying Oct. 29. China’s foreign ministry also expressed “deep
dissatisfaction” with Clinton for saying the disputed islands,
known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, fall within the
Japan-U.S. security alliance, Xinhua said in a separate report.  Yang told Clinton yesterday that the U.S. should respect
China’s sovereignty and not make any “irresponsible remarks,”
Xinhua reported.  A sea collision between a Chinese fishing boat and Japanese
Coast Guard vessels near the disputed islands last month soured
relations and reportedly prompted Beijing to cut exports of
rare-earth minerals. Wen pledged a steady supply of the minerals
during an Oct. 28 meeting with Kan and South Korean President
Lee Myung Bak, and Yang repeated those vows to Clinton
yesterday.  ‘Cooperative Relations’  The current conflict between China and Japan won’t be seen
as “decisive trouble” compared with past incidents, Kan told
reporters after his encounter with Wen.  “We shall be able to engage in cooperative relations with
each other that will be in the interest of peace for the region
and the world,” Kan said.  The U.S., Japan and several countries in the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations continued to push China to agree to a
set of rules at sea at the three days of meetings in Hanoi.
Clinton said yesterday she was “encouraged” that another round
of working-level talks on a sea code involving Asean and China,
which have been stalled since 2002, will take place in December.  “The United States has a national interest in the freedom
of navigation and unimpeded lawful commerce,” Clinton told the
summit. “When disputes arise over maritime territory, we are
committed to resolving them peacefully based on customary
international law.”  ‘Virtually an Attack’  In July, Yang said Clinton’s assertion that the U.S. had a
“national interest” in the South China Sea was “virtually an
attack on China.” U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Oct.
12 that China’s actions in the seas are “clearly on everybody’s
mind” and fall within the sphere of maritime security.  The issue came up at the East Asia Summit, a forum of 16
nations that the U.S. and Russia joined for the first time
yesterday. Rocky outcrops in the South China Sea that may
contain oil and gas reserves are claimed in whole or in part by
China, Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan.  “The region fears being dominated by a rising China,”
said Ernest Bower, an analyst at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington. “The solution? Invite the
Americans to join. This gives the rest of Asia the balance they
want.”  China has aimed to keep its territorial disputes with
Japan, Vietnam and the Philippines off the agenda at regional
meetings, preferring one-on-one negotiations. Wen praised
Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen for saying maritime border
issues should be resolved bilaterally, Xinhua reported Oct. 28.  U.S. allies in the region include Japan, South Korea, the
Philippines, Thailand and Australia. Washington has boosted its
naval presence in Singapore and is increasing cooperation with
the Indian navy in the Pacific Ocean, Clinton said Oct. 28.  She denied that increased military ties with Asian
countries were aimed at containing China, saying the U.S.
supports the country’s growth. Last night she visited China’s
Hainan Island, home to a naval base with quick access to the
South China Sea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Hanoi at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptioghe@bloomberg.net  