-- U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Little Changed Following GDP Report
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-29T21:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/u-s-credit-default-swaps-little-changed-following-gdp-report.html
The cost of protecting bonds from
default in the U.S. was little changed from near a five-month
low after a government report showed the U.S. economy expanded
at a 2 percent annual rate in the third quarter, as forecast.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.5 basis point to a
mid-price of 94.5 basis points as of 4:55 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Swaps on
Halliburton Co. surged the most since June.  The increase in gross domestic product matched the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a
1.7 percent second-quarter gain, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. The report underscores the views of
Federal Reserve policy makers who say more stimulus will be
needed to spur growth. Other reports showed business activity
increased this month and  consumer confidence  weakened.  There was “nothing surprising coming out of the GDP
numbers and the other data,” said  Adrian Miller , fixed-income
strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New York.
“There were no huge outliers, no tail event that’s causing the
credit market to move, so everybody’s just in a holding pattern
for the Fed, midterm elections, and then ultimately the
employment report on Friday.”  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, touched the lowest in
more than five months Oct. 26 at 92.5 basis points.  No Reason to Panic  “People are really still focused on the macro front,”
said  Adam Richmond , a strategist at Morgan Stanley. “Earnings
have not been a reason to panic.”  Earnings at 249 of the 310 companies in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  that have reported results since Oct. 7 have
beaten analysts’ per-share estimates, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The companies in the index will have 26 percent
growth in third-quarter profit from a year earlier, the fourth
straight quarterly increase, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
predict.  No corporate issuers defaulted this week, leaving the
global total for this year at 69, according to an S&P report.  The 2.4 percent default rate “likely will be close to the
trough for this cycle,’’  Diane Vazza , head of global fixed-
income research in New York, said in a report. “Beyond the one-
year forecast horizon, we believe that default risk could
increase. A significant overhang of leveraged corporate issuers
remains.’’  Credit-default swaps on Halliburton soared after the
world’s second-largest oilfield-services provider was ordered to
turn over cement used on the Deepwater Horizon project in
connection with a probe into the cause of the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill.  Bad Home Loans  The contracts climbed for a second day, rising 27.6 basis
points to 114.8, according to data provider CMA, after falling
as low as 59.9 basis points on Oct. 27. The cost to protect the
Houston-based company’s debt nearly tripled in June, reaching as
high as 219.4, after the worst U.S. oil spill, CMA data show.  Swaps on  Genworth Financial Inc. ’s debt surged to the
highest since Oct. 7 after the mortgage guarantor and life
insurer’s third-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates on
costs tied to bad home loans.  The contracts climbed 53.6 basis points to 308.8,
according to CMA. That means investors would pay $308,800
annually to protect $10 million of Genworth’s debt for five
years.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  