-- U.S. Stocks Fluctuate as GDP Data Match Forecast; Chevron Falls
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-29T20:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-before-gdp-data-microsoft-gains-on-earnings.html
Most U.S. stocks rose, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index completing its second straight
monthly advance, as Microsoft Corp. beat profit estimates and
economic growth matched forecasts.  Microsoft  rose 1.5 percent as corporate customers increased
purchases. Monster Worldwide Inc. soared 26 percent after the
job-listing service raised its fourth-quarter forecast. Chevron
Corp. declined 2.2 percent after its earnings missed analyst
estimates. Merck & Co. slumped 1.7 percent after saying that the
legal costs to resolve a criminal probe into its Vioxx
painkiller reduced profit.  Almost seven stocks advanced for every five that declined
on U.S. exchanges. The  S&P 500  fell less than 0.1 percent to
1,183.26 as of 4 p.m. in New York. The gauge rose 3.7 percent in
October on speculation the Federal Reserve will buy bonds to
stimulate the economy, a practice known as quantitative easing.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 4.54 points, or less
than 0.1 percent, to 11,118.49 today.  “The market is in a holding pattern,” said  Mark Bronzo , a
money manager in Irvington, New York, at Security Global
Investors, which oversees $21 billion. “The GDP numbers came in
as expected. I’m not sure it will change the Fed’s mind on QE2.
Don’t forget that the Fed is said to be getting inputs from
banks as a way to avoid any surprise next week. The market has
had a very good move and it’s now digesting it.”  The S&P 500 has risen as much as 16 percent from its 2010
low in July. Most U.S. stocks fell yesterday as 3M Co. drove
industrial shares lower after cutting its profit forecast,
helping erase an early gain triggered by Exxon Mobil Corp.’s
better-than-estimated earnings report.  GDP Growth  The U.S. economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter as consumer spending climbed the most in almost
four years, the Commerce Department said today, a sign the
expansion is developing staying power. The increase in gross
domestic product matched the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a 1.7 percent gain the
prior three months.  “It’s slow growth at best,” said  Richard Sichel , who
oversees $1.5 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co. “There’s no surprise in the GDP figures.
Consumer spending is growing, but not as much as we would like.
It seems that unemployment will stay high for the foreseeable
future. That most likely calls for further quantitative easing
next week.”  Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers fell in October to the
lowest level in almost a year, which may temper the biggest part
of the economy. Another report showed that business activity in
the U.S. unexpectedly accelerated in October, signaling
corporate and consumer spending are holding up after the economy
expanded at a faster pace in the third quarter.  “We may not be out of the woods, but I wouldn’t get too
negative here,” said  Eric Teal , chief investment officer at
First Citizens Bancshares Inc. in Raleigh, North Carolina, which
manages $5 billion. “The lackluster economic numbers really
suggest the Fed will have to implement more aggressive stimulus
measures. On the other hand, as business confidence improves,
we’ll get a better jobs picture and ultimately investors’
psychology will improve. That will be gradual, though.”  Earnings at 249 of the 310 companies in the  S&P 500  that
have reported results since Oct. 7 have beaten analysts’ per-
share earnings estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict 26 percent
growth in third-quarter profit from a year earlier for S&P 500
companies, the fourth straight quarterly increase.  Microsoft  Microsoft rose 1.5 percent to $26.67. The world’s largest
software maker reported first-quarter earnings of 62 cents a
share, beating an average estimate of 55 cents as corporate
customers stepped up purchases of computers and the programs
that run on them.  Monster Worldwide jumped 26 percent to $18.06 for the
biggest gain in the S&P 500. The world’s largest online-
recruiting company forecast adjusted earnings in the fourth
quarter of as much as 8 cents a share, higher than the 5-cent
average analyst estimate.  Chevron sank 2.2 percent to $82.60. The second-largest U.S.
energy company posted an unexpected drop in net income, bucking
the trend of bigger profits among its peers, after a jump in
costs erased gains from higher crude prices and record
production.  Merck slumped 1.7 percent to $36.31. The second-biggest
U.S. drugmaker set aside $950 million to resolve a criminal
probe into the Vioxx painkiller it withdrew six years ago,
raising potential legal costs to $7.7 billion. The legal reserve
contributed to a 90 percent decline in third-quarter income to
$342 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at   mregan12@bloomberg.net . 