-- U.S. Economy Grew 2% as Consumer Spending Rises
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-29T16:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/u-s-economy-picked-up-in-third-quarter-on-consumer-spending.html
The U.S. economy expanded at a 2
percent annual rate in the third quarter and inflation cooled,
underscoring the views of Federal Reserve policy makers who say
more stimulus will be needed to spur growth.  The increase in gross domestic product matched the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a
1.7 percent second-quarter gain, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. Other reports showed business
activity increased this month and  consumer confidence  weakened.  Central bankers meeting next week are concerned growth is
too slow to lower an unemployment rate stuck near 10 percent and
are seeking ways to prevent a drop in prices that would hurt the
recovery. Today’s report showed the inflation gauge watched by
the Fed rose the least in almost two years as retailers like
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  use discounts to entice consumers into
spending.  “We need to do better than this to get a real recovery in
the labor market,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. “The report leaves everything
in place for more asset purchases by the Fed next week.”  Treasury securities and commodities rose as the data fueled
speculation the Fed will begin large-scale asset purchases to
revive the world’s largest economy. The yield on the benchmark
10-year note, which moves inversely to prices, fell to 2.62
percent at 12:06 p.m. in New York. Stocks fluctuated between
gains and losses.  Chicago Purchasers  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
 business barometer  rose to 60.6 this month from 60.4 in
September. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of  consumer sentiment 
fell to 67.7 from 68.2 last month.  Employment expenses rose less than forecast in the third
quarter, reinforcing expectations that inflation will be
restrained in coming months, figures from the Labor Department
also showed. The 0.4 percent increase in the employment cost
index was the smallest gain this year, reflecting a record
decline in pay for state and local government workers.  The growth report showed the so-called core personal
consumption expenditures price  index , which is tied to consumer
spending and strips out food and energy costs, climbed at a 0.8
percent pace, down from a 1 percent gain the prior quarter.  GDP projections of the 83 economists surveyed ranged from
0.5 percent to 3.6 percent.  Household purchases , about 70 percent of the economy, rose
at a 2.6 percent pace, the best quarter of the recovery that
began in June 2009.  Spending Pickup  The gain in consumer spending was the biggest since the end
of 2006 and compared with a 2.5 percent median forecast in the
Bloomberg survey.  Stock-market gains and reduced debt may be allowing
consumers to increase spending, which bodes well for the holiday
season. The National Retail Federation has forecast November-
December sales will rise 2.3 percent from a year ago, making it
the best holiday season in four years.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer,  Target Corp. ,
Amazon.com Inc. and EBay Inc. are among merchants that will
benefit as holiday shoppers seek bargains, according to results
of a survey issued this month by Consumer Edge Research in
Stamford, Connecticut.  Target, the second-biggest discount retailer, said this
month it would lower prices on more than 1,000 toys to attract
shoppers. Its larger rival responded with its own discounts,
advertising saving on brands such as Barbie and Nerf toys.  ‘Steady and Solid’  Miami-based  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. , the world’s
second-largest cruise operator, raised its 2010 profit forecast
and predicted record earnings next year. Passenger bookings are
rebounding since Chief Executive Officer  Richard Fain  slashed
ticket prices and costs last year.  Demand is now “steady and solid,” Fain said in an Oct. 26
statement. “The economy is still tough, but even facing such
headwinds, our outlook is remarkably encouraging.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 27 that the
central bank “will do all that it can” to sustain the economic
recovery. Investors are anticipating policy makers will announce
another round of asset purchases after buying $1.7 trillion in
debt from December 2008 to March.  The Fed meets Nov. 2-3. Inflation remains below its longer-
term projections which are in a range of 1.7 percent to 2
percent. Growth in the 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent range is
consistent with keeping the jobless rate stable, according to
policy makers’ latest forecasts.  Voter Discontent  The election next week will determine which party controls
Congress. There is no clear consensus on which party deserves
more blame for the economy’s problems, or how best to fix them,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct. 24-26. It
showed Republicans are poised to retake the U.S. House without a
mandate from voters to carry out their policies.  In addition to consumer spending, third-quarter growth got
a lift from a pickup in inventories and gains in business
investment on equipment and software and federal government
outlays. The economy may not be able to count on the latter much
longer as about 70 percent of President  Barack Obama ’s estimated
$787 billion stimulus has been spent, according to a September
White House report.  Automakers were another bright spot last quarter. Vehicle
production climbed at a 21 percent annual rate, adding 0.4
percentage point to growth.  Ford’s Plans  Ford Motor Co. , the second-largest U.S. automaker, plans to
invest $850 million and add 1,200 jobs in Michigan by 2013 as
sales rebound, the company said Oct. 25. It will add 900 hourly
positions in its factories and 300 salaried jobs at its
engineering and manufacturing operations, it said.  A pickup in auto demand may keep helping manufacturers.
Vehicle sales are running at a 12 million annual rate in
October,  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of the Americas, said
this month. The rate would be the highest since the government’s
“cash for clunkers” incentive boosted demand in August 2009.  “We continue to see good, steady improvement,” Fields
said on Oct. 25 at an event in Sterling Heights, Michigan.  A 29 percent plunge in home building, the biggest since the
first quarter of 2009, and a widening trade gap hindered growth
over the past three months, today’s report showed.  Final sales to domestic purchasers, which excludes trade
and inventories and is a measure of underlying demand, the
economy would have grown at a 2.5 percent annual rate after
expanding at a 4.3 percent pace the previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  