-- Jobless Likely to Shun Election That Is Focused on Their Plight
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-10-29T04:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/unemployed-likely-to-sit-out-u-s-election-that-is-focused-on-their-plight.html
Jackson, Michigan, is home to one of
this year’s most closely contested U.S. House races, with both
candidates promising to bring jobs back to an area suffering
from 13 percent unemployment.  Nick Barr, an out-of-work electrician, said the election is
the least of his concerns. He’s lost his house and his truck,
and has told his three kids they can’t play hockey anymore
because he can’t afford the cost.  “Honestly, I’ve been so busy trying to find work I haven’t
paid much attention,” Barr, 31, said outside the local Michigan
Works! office, where the unemployed come to seek help preparing
resumes, search job listings and use Internet connections.
“I’ve always been pretty secure in my line of work, but now
there’s just nothing.”  With  joblessness  at 9.6 percent nationwide last month, the
economy has emerged as a top issue in Nov. 2’s midterm
elections. Yet many of those like Barr who’ve been hurt most by
the slow economy say they have no intention of going to the
polls. That’s bad news for Democrats, who may see little reward
after spending months pushing jobless-benefit extensions through
Congress over Republican objections to their cost.  “There is such a leap between casting a vote and any help
for being unemployed that I don’t think most of them make that
linkage,” said  Cliff Zukin , a pollster at  Rutgers University  in
New Brunswick, New Jersey, who surveys the jobless. “I don’t
think they see voting as a way of redressing grievances.”  Younger, Less-Educated  Polling experts such as Zukin say the unemployed are the
mirror image of those most likely to vote in midterm contests.
Turnout in off-year elections tends to be dominated by older,
better-educated and wealthier voters who are among the least
likely to be unemployed. Government statistics show joblessness
spikes among younger, less-educated Americans.  “The profile of voters is upscale and the profile of those
who are unemployed is decidedly not,” Zukin said.  Turnout among the unemployed has lagged behind those with
jobs by at least a dozen percentage points in every midterm
election of the past quarter century. Even in 1982, when
joblessness nationwide was 10.8 percent -- the only time in the
past 60 years an election was held amid worse unemployment than
today -- just 34 percent of those out of work reported casting a
ballot; 50 percent of those with jobs said they voted.  Television Ads  In Jackson, a blue-collar town 80 miles west of Detroit,
the incumbent Democratic congressman,  Mark Schauer , 49, is
trying to fend off a challenge from the man he defeated in 2008,
Republican  Tim Walberg , 59.  Both promise to restore the economy in an area once a hub
of auto-parts suppliers that has since seen companies such as
Schaumburg, Illinois-based  Sparton Corp.  and Livonia, Michigan-
based  TRW Automotive Holdings Corp.  take jobs elsewhere. Schauer
has promised to fight international trade agreements he says
promote outsourcing, while Walberg has proposed tax cuts he says
would jog hiring.  Neither pitch resonates with many of the 5,000 people who
pass each month through the city’s Michigan Works! office. On a
recent day jobseekers browsed a thin list of help-wanted ads
that included openings for a lathe operator, a “greeter” at
the Oasis Quick Lube, a sales job at Team Hillsdale Chrysler and
a $10 per hour position at Doctor Flue, a chimney-cleaning
service that requires applicants to “be able to climb
chimneys.”  ‘Butchering/Boning’  Another job, at a  Bob Evans Farms Inc.  food-processing
facility, titled “Harvest Floor,” requires one year experience
in “butchering/boning” along with a willingness to “work in
consistently cold temperatures the entire shift.” It pays $10
per hour.  Scott Zollin, 46, a former welder, is getting state-funded
retraining at Jackson Community College in heating and cooling
after being jobless for two years. “Will I find a job there?
No,” he said. “Because everyone in the heating and cooling
industry is laid off also, so it’s all just a big farce.”  Richmond Morgan, 56, who lost his job at a steel mill 21
months ago, is getting retraining in maintaining computer
networks. He too is skeptical he’ll find a job when he finishes
his associated degree next year. “Why would you hire old dad at
60 years of age for 50,60 thousand a year when you can hire
young Johnny over here who’s fresh out of school and he’s
willing to work for 19.5?” said Morgan. “Who would you hire?”  ‘Just Talk’  For some, the search for work has bred cynicism that
politicians have an answer to the joblessness. Shanique Parker,
21, who two years ago cast her first vote for President  Barack Obama , dismissed the candidates’ promises. “It’s just talk to
get into office,” she said. “It’s not going to change
anything.”  Darrin Hogan, 41, out of work since February, says he has
no confidence the jobs will ever come back and is considering
leaving Jackson. “There is nothing here,” he said. “If they
was going to bring them, they would have brought them -- you
don’t wait until an election to bring jobs.”  Brooke Stiles, 30, who has been out of work for a year,
said she hasn’t heard much about the candidates’ promises -- or
about the race at all, despite a flood of television ads --after
cutting cable television out of her budget. And “it’s not like
you can go to your neighbors to borrow their TV, because they’re
unemployed, too,” she said.  To be sure, some of the jobless in Jackson said they plan
to vote. What’s more, the AFL-CIO is trying to organize the
jobless in Michigan and eight other states with high
unemployment on behalf of Democrats.  Zollin, the welder, said he’ll vote because that’s what
he’s always done and also because “I cannot pick up a gun and
go shoot” politicians, even though “what half of them need is
a piece of lead.”  Still, when pressed on how he might vote, Zollin called
both Schauer and Walberg “crooks,” and said he may just write
his own name in.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Jackson, Michigan at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva@bloomberg.net  