-- United Trio to Get Offers to Play in Middle East, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-29T09:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/united-trio-to-get-offers-to-play-in-middle-east-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Dubai Offers  Manchester United veterans  Ryan Giggs ,  Paul Scholes  and
 Gary Neville  are all expected to receive lucrative offers to
finish their careers in the Middle East, the  Sun said .  Giggs, 36, will be offered 200,000 pounds ($318,000) a
week, while Scholes and Neville, both 35, may also get similar
deals, the Sun said without identifying any clubs.  Fabio Cannavaro , captain of Italy’s 2006 World Cup
championship team, moved to Al Ahli last summer for 100,000
pounds a week, tax-free, which equates to 200,000 pounds in the
U.K., the Sun said.  Fergie’s Targets  United manager  Alex Ferguson  has put Bayern Munich’s
 Bastian Schweinsteiger  and Tottenham’s  Tom Huddleston  at the top
of his list as he looks to bolster his midfield, the  Daily Star 
said.  Ferguson has turned to Schweinsteiger, whose contract with
Bayern expires after the season, after losing out on Inter
Milan’s  Wesley Sneijder  and believes he can lure the German to
Old Trafford during the January transfer period, the Star said.  Chelsea also has an interest in signing Schweinsteiger to a
pre-contract in January, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Two Games  West Ham manager  Avram Grant  has two games to save his job
as the club sits last in the Premier League, the  Daily Star 
said.  The Hammers have just six points from nine games this
season and co-owners  David Sullivan  and David Gold were less
than impressed with last weekend’s home loss to Newcastle, the
Star said. Grant wouldn’t be fired if West Ham loses at Arsenal
tomorrow but defeat Nov. 6 at Birmingham, which Sullivan and
Gold once owned, could end Grant’s tenure, the newspaper said.  New Name for Ewood?  The new owners of Blackburn Rovers may sell the naming
rights to the club’s Ewood Park stadium, the  Daily Telegraph 
said.  Venky’s (India) Ltd. expects to complete its 46 million-
pound purchase of the club within the next two weeks and is
investigating the value of selling the naming rights, the
Telegraph said. Blackburn has played at Ewood Park since 1890.  Arsenal Interest  Arsenal is following the progress of Schalke defender
Benedikt Howedes, the  Daily Mail  said.  Howedes, 22, has been a starter at the Bundesliga club for
five years and can play both fullback and center-half, the Mail
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 