-- Obama Says Packages Bound for U.S. Had Explosives
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r ,   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-10-29T19:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/ups-planes-in-new-jersey-philadelphia-probed-after-suspicious-items-found.html
U.S. officials are investigating
packages sent from Yemen to the U.S. after suspicious parcels
were found in the U.K. and Dubai, raising concern that the
incident was a dry run for a future terrorist attack.   United Parcel Service Inc.  said the Federal Bureau of
Investigation checked packages today on three jets from Europe,
while  FedEx Corp.  said it embargoed shipments from Yemen after a
parcel from the country was seized by officials at its Dubai
facility. President  Barack Obama  was notified late yesterday
about a “potential terrorist threat,” the White House said.  “Authorities were able to identify and examine two
suspicious packages, one in East Midlands, United Kingdom, and
one in Dubai,” the White House said in a statement. “Both of
these packages originated from Yemen.”  Investigators are looking at whether the shipments were
staged as rehearsals for a future attack, a U.S. official said.
Links to al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, a branch of the
group that operates in Yemen, also are being studied, said the
official, who requested anonymity.  Obama will make a statement about the case at 4:15 p.m.
Washington time, the White House said.  Tests for explosives were negative on a toner cartridge
found on the plane that landed in the U.K. en route to Chicago
from Yemen, said  Richard Kolko , a spokesman for the FBI in New
York, in a telephone interview. He didn’t specify the carrier
involved.  Wires, White Powder  Wires protruded from the toner unit, and a white powder was
found along with it, according to the U.S. official who asked
not to be identified. U.K. authorities alerted the U.S. to check
for packages from same Yemeni shipper, according to a different
person familiar with the inquiry.  Checks for explosives are required for all 4.2 billion
pounds of freight shipped on passenger planes annually within
the U.S., plus goods on flights headed for international
destinations, under a U.S. rule that took effect in August.  UPS, the world’s package-delivery company, screens
shipments that will be carried on passenger jets, although it
doesn’t have to screen cargo on its own planes, according to the
Atlanta-based company’s website.  Dry Run or Mischief?  “It looks either like a dry run or an act of mischief,”
 Richard Falkenrath , a principal at Chertoff Group and  former
deputy commissioner of counterterrorism at the New York City
Police Department, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“But there is a significant vulnerability that someone may be
probing, and that is cargo aircraft entering U.S. airspace.”  The discoveries in Dubai and the U.K. set off a day of law
enforcement investigations stretching from the Persian Gulf
region to the U.S., and alerts to Chicago-area synagogues from a
Jewish community group that said it was advised by federal
authorities to take precautions.  The Department of Homeland Security said it was boosting
security at airports, including more-thorough screening of
cargo.  “Passengers should continue to expect an unpredictable mix
of security layers that include explosives trace detection,
advanced imaging technology, canine teams and pat downs,” the
agency said in a statement.  Yemen and Terror  Yemen figured into the U.S. inquiry of the last major
security threat on a U.S. jetliner, the attempted bombing of a
 Delta Air Lines Inc.  plane on Dec. 25. Obama told reporters in
January that evidence indicates that the suspect,  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab , was trained and equipped by a Yemeni group
affiliated with al-Qaeda.  Maury Lane , a spokesman for Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx,
said he didn’t have additional information about the shipper or
contents of the package in Dubai. The government media office in
Dubai declined to comment.  A person at UPS’s office in Sana‘a, the Yemeni capital,
said the manager was unavailable, refused to comment further and
declined to give his name, saying he wasn’t authorized to
comment.  All three UPS planes landed safely in the U.S., with two in
Philadelphia and one in Newark, New Jersey, a spokesman, Mike
Mangeot, said in a telephone interview. The Newark jet was later
cleared for another flight, he said. The search turned up
nothing suspicious, according to a law enforcement official who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  UPS Planes  Mangeot said the FBI and Transportation Security
Administration haven’t given UPS further details about the
nature of the packages or what is under investigation. He said
he wasn’t aware of any visible signs of smoke or fire from the
packages or on the company’s planes.  A Boeing Co.  767 from Paris and an MD-11 from Cologne,
Germany, landed in Philadelphia, and a 767 flew to Newark from
East Midlands, Mangeot said. He said the Newark jet was now on
another flight, to Louisville, Kentucky.  A UPS truck that had been stopped in Brooklyn for a
suspected explosive device was cleared following an
investigation, said  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the New York
City Police Department, in an e-mail.  The Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago, a not-for-
profit charity group, was advising local synagogues to take
“appropriate precautions” today after being notified by
authorities to be on alert, said Linda Haase, a spokeswoman for
the group, in a telephone interview.  The U.S. got a tip from one its allies about packages
coming from Yemen destined for synagogues in Chicago, CNN
reported, citing an unidentified person in law enforcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net 
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 