-- Vivus Gains on Indication FDA May Clear Obesity Drug
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-29T20:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/vivus-gains-on-potential-to-win-u-s-clearance-for-obesity-drug-next-year.html
Vivus Inc.  rose the most in 13
months in Nasdaq trading after U.S. regulators didn’t ask for
additional trials of its experimental diet pill Qnexa,
indicating the drug may be approved as early as next year.  The Mountain View, California-based company jumped $1.62,
or 26 percent, to $7.75 at 4:01 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite  trading , its biggest percentage gain
 since  Sept. 9, 2009. Vivus said yesterday that the Food and Drug
Administration had safety questions about Qnexa.  Vivus has been in a race with  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
and  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.  to introduce the first
prescription diet pill in more than a decade for the estimated
one-third of Americans with obesity. The FDA asked for more in-
depth information on Arena’s drug last week and is scheduled to
decide on Orexigen’s product by Jan. 31.  “Vivus indicated they’re going to respond very quickly”
to the FDA’s questions, said  Ian Sanderson , an analyst with
Cowen & Co. in Boston, in a telephone interview today. “Most
people thought that a longer-term cardiovascular safety trial
would be required.”  Qnexa is a once-daily pill that works by using a
controlled-release formula of low doses of phentermine and
topiramate. The chemicals act on the receptors of the brain that
control appetite and sense of fullness. The drug helped patients
lose an average of 26 pounds (12 kilograms), or 11 percent of
their body weight, in a two-year study released last month.  Birth Defects Risk  Outside advisers to the FDA recommended against approval in
a 10-6 vote in July over concerns that Qnexa may cause birth
defects and increased heart rate. The FDA asked the company
yesterday to submit the two-year study results, evidence that
the drug doesn’t increase the risk of major cardiovascular side
effects, and a plan to prevent use during pregnancy.  Vivus Chief Executive Officer  Leland Wilson  said he
anticipates the company will respond to the FDA within six
weeks, and then the agency will take two to six months to
consider the information before making an approval decision.  “The request for information by the FDA was clear and
specific,” Wilson told analysts and investors today on a
conference call. “We believe we can address all the FDA’s
questions with the information that currently exists.”  Competitors Focus  Vivus had more than $155 million in cash reserves in
September, a sufficient amount to get through the remainder of
the FDA approval process, Wilson said.  Qnexa sales may reach $450.9 million in 2015, according to
the  average estimate  of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Vivus sold global rights to its only marketed product, Muse for
erectile dysfunction, to Meda AB of Solna, Sweden, this month.  Safety and patent concerns have left Vivus as the only one
of the three companies developing weight-loss drugs without a
marketing partner. Arena partnered its lorcaserin pill with
Tokyo-based  Eisai Co. , and Orexigen teamed up with  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.  of Osaka, Japan, on its Contrave pill. Both
Arena and Orexigen are based in San Diego.  The FDA hasn’t approved a prescription weight-loss drug
since Xenical, from  Roche Holding AG  in 1999. Safety issues have
spelled the demise of medicines for losing weight, including
Wyeth’s fen-phen in 1997,  Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s rimonabant in 2007
and Abbott Laboratories’ Meridia this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 