-- Vivus Fails to Win U.S. Approval for Diet Pill Qnexa Over Safety Concerns
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/vivus-fails-to-win-u-s-approval-for-diet-pill-qnexa-on-safety-concerns.html
Vivus Inc.  failed to win U.S.
approval to introduce the first new prescription diet pill in
more than a decade, becoming the second experimental obesity
treatment rejected by regulators in the past two weeks.  The Food and Drug Administration asked Vivus to assess the
heart risks of the medicine, Qnexa, and evaluate its potential
harmful effects on the development of a fetus, the Mountain
View, California-based company said late yesterday in a
statement. Vivus also must submit the results of its completed
two-year Sequel study of the drug. Outside advisers to the FDA
recommended against approval in a 10-6 vote in July over
concerns Qnexa may cause birth defects and increased heart rate.  Vivus has been competing with  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
and  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.  to introduce options for the
estimated one-third of Americans who struggle with obesity. The
FDA asked for more information on Arena’s drug last week and
scheduled a panel review of Orexigen’s product for Dec. 7.  “We doubt additional pre-clinical or clinical data will be
required, but we suspect there will be concern about the
safety” of Qnexa, said  William Tanner , an analyst at Lazard
Capital Markets in New York in an Oct. 25 note to clients.
“That concern could be dealt with by a tight” risk-management
plan “and restricted distribution, but that would clearly
impair the drug’s commercial potential.”  Qnexa sales may reach $450.9 million in 2015, according to
the  average estimate  of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Vivus sold global rights to its only marketed product, Muse for
erectile dysfunction, to Meda AB this month.  Stock Performance  Vivus gained 5 cents to $6.13 at 4:30 p.m. New York time
yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The stock
has  dropped  33 percent so far this year, including a 55 percent
decline the day after the advisory panel vote.  Hedge funds  own  33 percent of Vivus shares, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Citadel Advisors LLC reported a 5.1
percent passive stake in Vivus yesterday to become the company’s
third-largest holder with 4.12 million shares.  Devon Spurgeon , a
spokeswoman for Chicago-based Citadel, declined to comment.  The FDA hasn’t approved a prescription weight-loss drug
since  Roche Holding AG ’s Xenical in 1999. Safety issues have
spelled the demise of medicines for losing weight, including
Wyeth’s fen-phen in 1997,  Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s rimonabant in 2007
and Abbott Laboratories’ Meridia this month.  Qnexa is a once-daily pill that works by using a
controlled-release formula of low doses of phentermine and
topiramate. The chemicals act on the receptors of the brain that
control appetite and sense of fullness.  Drug Components  Topiramate, an anticonvulsant, is the generic form of
 Johnson & Johnson’s  Topamax. The drug can trigger an irregular
heartbeat and psychiatric issues led by depression, anxiety and
hallucinations. Phentermine, a component of fen-phen, is still
sold as a short-term appetite suppressant.  The FDA didn’t require any new clinical studies of Qnexa
though it may call for another study if its safety concerns
aren’t satisfied, Vivus said in the statement.  “We remain confident in the efficacy and safety profile of
Qnexa demonstrated in the clinical development program and look
forward to continue working with the FDA toward approval for the
treatment of obesity,”  Leland Wilson , Vivus’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  A 56-week study showed Qnexa helped severely obese people
lose an average of 14.7 percent of their body weight, compared
with 2.5 percent on placebo. Side effects included anxiety,
depression, memory and attention lapses, and increased heart
rate.  Seeking a Partner  Safety and patent concerns have left Vivus as the only one
of the three companies developing weight-loss drugs without a
marketing partner. Arena, of San Diego, partnered its lorcaserin
pill with Tokyo-based  Eisai Co. , and Orexigen, also of San
Diego, has teamed up with  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.  of Osaka,
Japan on its Contrave pill.  Vivus reported a net loss of $54.3 million in 2009 and
hasn’t recorded an annual profit since 2000. The company had
$11.6 million in  cash  and near-cash items at the end of June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 