-- Washington Times Nears Sale, Wins Dismissal of Forced Bankruptcy in Court
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-29T18:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/washington-times-says-it-s-near-sale-wins-dismissal-of-bankruptcy-case.html
The  Washington Times  LLC is close to
being sold, the newspaper’s publisher said in court papers that
successfully sought to avert a forced bankruptcy.  Should “an impending sale of the membership interests” of
Washington Times succeed, the company would get $3.1 million in
cash to pay creditors, lawyers for the publisher said in papers
filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Washington.  The company, based in Washington, didn’t disclose any other
details about the proposed sale.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge S.  Martin Teel Jr . dismissed an
involuntary bankruptcy petition filed against The Washington
Times by Richard A. Steinbronn, a fired officer of an affiliate,
who claimed the company owed two other affiliates $2 million and
therefore should be under court protection. The proposed sale
was disclosed on Oct. 25 in court papers seeking dismissal of
Steinbronn’s petition.  Steinbronn, a former director of Times Aerospace
International LLC, said in the filing he was “wrongfully
terminated from various positions in early 2009.”  The Washington Times’ daily circulation is 38,587 and it
employs 128 people, according to court filings. Readership has
fallen from last year, when circulation fell 17 percent to
67,148 in the six months ending 2009, the most recent data
available from the Audit Bureau of Circulations. That compares
with declines of 6.4 percent at the Washington Post in the
period, and 11 percent industrywide.  A spokesman for News World Communications Inc., the owner
of the Washington Times, couldn’t be reached for comment.  The Washington Times was founded by the  Reverend Sun Myung Moon , leader of the Unification Church.  The case is In re Washington Times LLC 10-01041, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Columbia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 