-- Washington Metro Bomb Suspect to Be Held Without Bail, U.S. Judge Rules
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-29T20:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/washington-metro-subway-bomb-suspect-to-be-held-without-bail-judge-rules.html
A Virginia man charged with
participating in what he thought was an al-Qaeda plot to bomb
Metrorail subway stations in the Washington area will be held
without bail, a U.S. magistrate judge said.  In a hearing before U.S. Magistrate Judge John Anderson in
Alexandria, attorneys for Farooque Ahmed didn’t contest his
detention. Farooque, with a beard, glasses and wearing a green
prisoner’s jumpsuit, didn’t say anything during the proceeding,
which lasted about two minutes.  Ahmed, 34, of Ashburn, is accused of gathering information
on which stations and times would cause the most destruction. He
then passed the information to people he believed to be members
of al-Qaeda, according to the U.S. Justice Department.  “It is appropriate for you to remain in custody,”
Anderson told Ahmed. Ahmed is allowed to reconsider and
challenge his detention, Anderson said.  Ahmed, a U.S. citizen born in Pakistan, was caught in an
undercover operation, according to a federal official who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the investigation is
continuing. He was taken into custody Oct. 27 after a grand jury
returned a three-count indictment against him.  Material Support  Ahmed faces as long as 50 years in prison for attempting to
provide material support to a terrorist group and attempting to
help carry out attacks, the U.S. said.  Anderson didn’t schedule any further proceedings.  From April to Oct. 25, Ahmed met in northern Virginia hotel
rooms with people he believed represented al-Qaeda, prosecutors
claim. At one meeting he agreed to watch a Washington hotel and
an Arlington, Virginia, Metro station to study the security and
learn of the busiest periods, according to the government.  At subsequent meetings, Ahmed provided a computer memory
stick and a USB drive including images of the Courthouse,
Pentagon City, and Arlington Cemetery Metrorail stations in
Virginia.  He obtained the recording with a mobile phone camera,
holding up the phone as though he were talking and not
recording.  In September, he provided diagrams he had drawn of the
three Metrorail stations and provided suggestions as to where
explosives should be placed on trains to kill the most people in
a simultaneous attack planned for 2011, prosecutors said.  Rolling Suitcase  He also suggested using rolling suitcases rather than
backpacks for the attacks to kill as many military personal as
possible, according to court papers.  In January, federal agents learned that Ahmed wanted to
contact a terrorist organization and fight U.S. forces in
Afghanistan or Pakistan, telling others he wanted be a martyr,
according to legal papers. U.S. investigators said they were
monitoring Ahmed from the start of the alleged plot.  Ahmed doesn’t appear to have been part of a terrorist cell,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the investigation is continuing.  The subway system covers 106 miles of tracks, providing
rail transportation through Washington, Virginia and Maryland.  The case is U.S. v. Ahmed, 10-cr-00413, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Alexandria, Virginia, at 
1849 or
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 