-- Wheat Futures Decline on Speculation Cold Weather Won't Damage U.S. Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-29T19:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/wheat-futures-advance-on-concern-dry-weather-may-damage-u-s-winter-crops.html
Wheat futures fell for the first
time this week on speculation that cold weather forecast for the
U.S. Midwest won’t be enough to hurt crops.  Temperatures  in soft-red wheat growing areas may drop to
about 30 degrees Fahrenheit (-1 degree Celsius) tomorrow,
according to the National Weather Service. That may not be cold
enough to damage recently planted winter crops, said  Mike Zuzolo , the president of Global Commodity Analytics & Consulting
in Lafayette, Indiana.  “Temperatures were not as cold in the soft-red belt as
what had been predicted, so a killing freeze is unlikely this
weekend,” Zuzolo said.  Wheat futures for December delivery dropped 1 cent, or 0.1
percent, to settle at $7.1725 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The price climbed 6.4 percent in
October, the biggest monthly increase since July.  Traders also may have sold contracts after prices climbed
to $7.25 today, the highest level since Oct. 11, Zuzolo said.  Wheat rose earlier as extended dry weather in U.S. growing
areas revived concern for young plants.  Some fields in the Great Plains and Midwest will receive
“no appreciable precipitation” in the next two weeks,
according to Belton, Missouri-based forecaster Weather
Derivatives. Parts of Kansas, the largest winter-wheat state,
are “abnormally dry,” while areas of Nebraska, Colorado and
Wyoming are experiencing “moderate”  drought , according to data
from the University of Nebraska at Lincoln.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, government data show. Corn, soybeans and hay
were larger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 