-- White-Collar Criminals in U.S. May Invoke Age to Seek Lighter Sentences
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-10-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/white-collar-criminals-in-u-s-may-invoke-age-to-seek-lighter-sentences.html
Elderly people convicted of
financial fraud and other federal crimes will be more likely to
invoke their age in seeking lower prison terms due to a change
in U.S. sentencing guidelines set to go into effect Nov. 1, a
white-collar crime expert said.  The amendment states that age may be relevant in
calculating sentencing ranges. The current language says age is
“not ordinarily relevant.” Some high-profile defendants such
as  Adelphia Communications Corp. ’s  John Rigas  and former
Illinois Governor  George Ryan  were in their 70s and 80s when
sentenced.  “These sentences can turn into death sentences for
individuals who are older,” Jeff Ifrah, co-author of “Federal
Sentencing for Business Crimes,” said in a phone interview.
“You’ll start seeing defendants” ask for lower departures from
the normal guideline “based on age in the appropriate
circumstances.”  White-collar defendants tend to be older than those
convicted of other federal crimes. Almost half of all defendants
sentenced last year for tax offenses and 28.3 percent for money
laundering were older than 50, the most of any age category in
statistics compiled by the  U.S. Sentencing Commission .  Youth Included  Defendants in 22 percent of larceny cases and 19.8 percent
of fraud cases were older than 50, according to the commission,
a Washington-based agency that advises the president and
Congress on crime policy.  Last year, only 2.6 percent of defendants got a downward
departure from the guideline range due to age, according to the
commission.  The amendment changes the guidelines to say that “age
(including youth) may be relevant” if age is a factor “to an
unusual degree.”  A defendant’s youth would probably be considered in drug
cases, said Ifrah, founding partner of Washington-based law firm
 Ifrah PLLC .  Laura Sweeney, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, didn’t return a call seeking comment on the
guideline change.  “We were supportive of this particular amendment,” Mark
P. Rankin, co-chairman of the sentencing committee at the
 National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers , said in a
phone interview. “Anything that broadens the scope
of the district judge’s discretion is good for the sentencing
process.” Rankin is a partner at Shutts & Bowen LLP in Tampa,
Florida.  Citing Age  The lawyer for Mauricio Cohen Assor, convicted on Oct. 7 at
age 77 of hiding a $33 million hotel sale from U.S. tax
authorities, said he will cite Cohen’s age at his Dec. 17
sentencing by U.S. District Judge  William Zloch  in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida.  Cohen, who was convicted with his son, Leon Cohen Levy,
faces as long as 11 years in prison. The Cohens built hotels
under the “Flatotel” brand.  “For sure at the sentencing set in December, one of the
issues that we will put to Judge Zloch is that consideration of
age as a grounds of variance from the advisory-guidelines
calculation,”  Michael S. Pasano , the Cohens’ lawyer at  Carlton
Fields  in Miami, said in a phone interview.  In the past, appeals courts have overturned sentences when
judges took a defendant’s advanced age into account. A federal
appeals panel in 1996 overturned a one-year sentence, when the
guidelines called for from 27 to 33 months, because the judge
said a 60-year-old former Texas official broke the law under
duress, in part due to his age.  Other Excuses  The appeals court said fear of career loss was not the kind
of duress contemplated by the guidelines.  “If you had someone with great age or a health issue,
you’d argue for a downward departure and courts would often say
no and were upheld on appeal,” Pasano said.  While the federal sentencing guidelines, in effect since
1987, have been advisory rather than mandatory since a 2005 U.S.
Supreme Court ruling, statistics show that courts continue to
adhere to them.  Last year, 56.8 percent of defendants were sentenced within
the guideline range and another 25.3 percent were sentenced
below it at the government’s request, according to the
sentencing commission.  A lawyer for Ryan, the former Illinois governor, asked for
his client to have a “few years with his family before he
dies” when he was sentenced, at age 72, to 6 1/2 years in
prison in 2006 after being convicted of public corruption.  Health Issues  Dan Webb , Ryan’s lawyer, asked for the sentence to be
capped at 2 1/2 years, noting Ryan suffered from diabetes and
Crohn’s disease. The ex-governor probably had less than 10 years
to live, Webb said at the time. Ryan, now 76, is in federal
prison in Terre Haute, Indiana.  In June 2005, Rigas, the founder of Greenwood Village,
Colorado-based cable-television operator Adelphia, was sentenced
to 15 years after being convicted for looting the company and
lying about its finances, in a fraud prosecutors estimated at
almost $2 billion.  At the time of his sentencing, Rigas was 80 and had cancer
and a heart condition. U.S. District Judge  Leonard Sand  in
Manhattan said that after Rigas served two years, the Bureau of
Prisons could ask for a reduction of his sentence if it
concludes he has less than three months to live.  “One shrinks from, no matter how horrendous the crime, the
prospect of someone dying in a prison hospital,” Sand said.  Rigas’s term was later reduced to 12 years after an appeals
court threw out one count. He is now 85 and in federal prison in
Butner, North Carolina, with a projected release date of Jan.
23, 2018, according to the Bureau of Prison’s  Web site .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 