-- Woodside Takes Over Gas Permit From Hess to Support Expansion of Pluto LNG
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-29T06:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/woodside-buys-50-of-gas-permit-from-hess-to-support-lng-pluto-expansion.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. , seeking
supplies to expand its A$13 billion ($12.7 billion) Pluto
liquefied natural gas project, agreed to acquire  Hess Corp. ’s 50
percent stake in an exploration permit off Western Australia.  The area in the Carnarvon Basin contains the Martell,
Noblige, Larsen and Larsen Deep gas discoveries as well as
prospects that haven’t been drilled, Perth-based Woodside said
in a statement to the Australian stock exchange today.  After the transaction with Hess is completed, Australia’s
second-largest oil and gas producer will own 100 percent of a
permit that’s “likely to be the key source of gas for Pluto
expansion,”  Neil Beveridge  and  Angus Chan , analysts at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong, wrote in a report today.
“Woodside is effectively doubling its bet on Pluto expansion.”  Woodside said earlier this month that an exploration
campaign to find more gas to feed the Pluto development will
continue into next year and that it remained in discussions with
other owners of gas resources in the Carnarvon Basin. The first
phase of Pluto is due to start by the end of February, with
initial exports at the end of March, Woodside said in August.  Pluto is set to become the fastest LNG venture, from the
discovery of gas in 2005 to the first production, Woodside says
on its website. The company said this month it is evaluating
Pluto’s schedule and cost, prompting analysts at firms including
 JPMorgan Chase  & Co. and Deutsche Bank to predict delays.  Attractive Price?  Woodside deferred a decision on adding capacity at Pluto
until next year after the company’s exploration program
progressed slower than expected.  Woodside  fell 1.4 percent to A$43.50 in Sydney by the
market’s 4:10 p.m. close, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index
declined 0.5 percent.  The Hess agreement involves an initial cash payment,
Woodside said, without giving any further financial details.  “Either Woodside has paid an attractive price or Hess
believes that Pluto expansion is unlikely to happen and is
exiting while the going is good,” Beveridge said.  The Bernstein analysts said they believe Woodside will get
the gas necessary to make a final investment decision on a
second processing unit. Woodside’s exploration efforts have
recorded six discoveries out of 12 wells drilled, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 