-- WPP Quarterly Sales Rise 12% on U.S., U.K. Recovery
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-10-29T07:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/wpp-third-quarter-sales-rise-12-to-2-25-billion-pounds-beating-estimates.html
WPP Plc , the world’s largest
advertising company, said third-quarter revenue rose 12.2
percent, beating analyst estimates, led by the continued
recovery in ad spending in the U.S. and U.K.  Revenue climbed to 2.25 billion pounds ($3.6 billion), the
London-based WPP said in a statement today. That beat the 2.18
billion-pound average  estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company said it expects to beat the group’s full-
year margin target of a 1-point improvement.  WPP , whose agencies include Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and
the Hill & Knowlton public relations firm, said sales growth
excluding currency fluctuations and acquisitions soared to the
highest quarterly rate since the fourth quarter of 2000. WPP
agencies focused on advertising, media investment management,
branding and communications benefitted the most in the quarter.  “Last year was about survival, this year is about growing
the top line,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell  said in a
Bloomberg TV interview today.  Sorrell said he expects growth to continue in 2011.  “We haven’t done our budgets and we’re a long way off, but
preliminary indications we get in from operating companies show
similar growth patterns next year,” he said in a phone
interview today.  The  stock  rose 0.4 percent to 721.5 pence in London trading
as of 8:21 a.m. Before today, the stock had gained 18 percent
this year.  Concerns  The full year looks “set fair” with good prospects for
the fourth quarter, Sorrell said. He said some clients still
have concerns over “Eurozone contagion” and slowing consumer
demand in the U.S.  The U.S. is unlikely to continue the same growth recorded
in 2010, when ad spending in many sectors started to recover,
most notably the among financial services companies, travel and
retail, he said.  WPP’s long-term targets are to improve operating profit by
10 percent to 15 percent each year and increase operating
margins by half to one margin point annually, according to the
statement.  Revenue from developing markets and digital activities
“are both now approaching 30 percent each of our total
revenues, which this year will be moving towards $15 billion,”
the company said.  Acquisitions  WPP announced today a $5 million investment in New York-
based Buddy Media, a Facebook management system for brands and
marketers.  Sorrell said WPP will continue to focus on small and
medium-sized acquisitions in developing markets and in digital
activities. WPP this year bought assets in countries including
Korea, Brazil, Poland, Israel and Argentina, he said.  Average net debt at WPP in the first nine months fell to
3.15 billion pounds from 3.44 billion pounds the year before.  WPP and its peers including Interpublic Group of Cos.,
 Omnicom Group Inc.  and  Publicis Groupe SA  are posting higher
sales and profit as marketers increase spending on ads after
slashing budgets in previous years.  Net new business billings at WPP for the third quarter
totaled 880 million pounds and new billings in the first nine
months were 2.99 billion pounds, a rise of more than 50 percent
from last year, the company said.  Ad Spending  WPP’s GroupM media-buying unit raised its forecast for
global ad spending in June, saying it would climb by 3.5 percent
this year to $451 billion. It previously predicted a 1 percent
increase. If achieved, this would equal the amount spent in
2006-2007. GroupM also predicted a 4.5 percent increase in
global ad spending in 2011.  Publicis Groupe SA, owner of the Saatchi & Saatchi and Leo
Burnett ad agencies, has said its third-quarter revenue rose 9.2
percent, led by digital activities in North America and business
in emerging markets such as China.  Havas SA reported its third-quarter revenue rose 5.3
percent to 368 million euros, and the U.S.’s Omnicom Group Inc.
said its sales advanced 5.5 percent in the quarter to $2.99
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 