-- Yacht Regatta Cancels Hong Kong Leg After City Says Skippers Lack Licenses
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2010-10-29T08:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/yacht-regatta-cancels-hong-kong-leg-after-city-says-skippers-lack-licenses.html
Organizers of the fourth  China Cup
International Regatta , a series of yacht races that has
attracted teams from more than 20 countries, have cancelled the
Hong Kong leg after city officials said some crews didn’t have
the correct license.  Hong Kong’s Marine Department said some of the
international teams didn’t have Hong Kong-issued operator
certificates and could not legally take part in the race. The
teams held valid international licenses but these were not
recognized by the department and the first leg had to be
cancelled, said Leon Chou a spokesman for the China Cup
International Regatta Organizing Committee.  “This is the fourth time we’ve held the event in Hong Kong
and this has never happened before,” Chou said. “All the crews
from around the world are holding international licenses. Hong
Kong has their laws and we have to follow them, but I don’t know
what they are thinking.”  The teams ran afoul of a rule that at least one person on
board a pleasure vessel operating in the city’s waters must have
an appropriate Hong Kong-issued license, Chou said. This year’s
event had attracted 76 yachts, he said.  “The race has been cancelled,” said Cheung Pui-Sang, a
senior assistant shipping master with the Marine Department.
“Some of the operators were not holding the relevant Hong Kong
 pleasure vessel operator certificate . Even though they hold a
foreign or international license of a higher grade they can’t
operate in Hong Kong waters without an exemption.”  Skippers of yachts sailing to and from Hong Kong didn’t
need local qualifications to enter and leave the city’s waters,
Cheung said. Those wishing to sail in and around Hong Kong, home
to some of the world’s busiest shipping channels, need to have
their paperwork in order, he said.  The yachts sailed from Hong Kong today, headed for the
southern city of Shenzhen, where a number of short course races
were planned, Chou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nick Gentle  in Hong Kong at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 