-- Yemen Packages on UPS, FedEx Jets Show `Massive' Air-Cargo Security Hole
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-29T23:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/yemen-packages-on-ups-fedex-jets-show-massive-air-cargo-security-hole.html
Explosives found in air-freight
shipments from Yemen spotlight a dangerous hole in U.S.
screening efforts and may spur the government to change how air
cargo is handled, security specialists said.  Discovery of the packages in the U.K. and Dubai, both bound
for synagogues in Chicago, triggered an examination of three
 United Parcel Service Inc . planes yesterday and confiscation of
a  FedEx Corp . parcel. Both companies halted service from Yemen.  While new U.S. rules implemented in August require
screening of all cargo in the bellies of passenger airliners,
goods on air freighters aren’t subject to those checks. UPS is
the world’s largest package-delivery company, and Memphis,
Tennessee-based FedEx runs the biggest cargo airline.  “You cannot possibly inspect every last package that is
sent across the globe,” said  Christopher Boucek , an analyst
specializing in al-Qaeda and the Middle East at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Washington. “That is an
inherent, massive weakness.”  The Department of Homeland Security said yesterday it was
ratcheting up checks for people and cargo. Passengers should
expect an “unpredictable mix” of measures, including canine
teams and searches, and freight scrutiny will be tightened, the
agency said.  UPS and FedEx said yesterday that they are cooperating with
authorities and declined to comment on whether or how they will
change procedures in response to the incidents.  The companies handle goods ranging from electronics parts
to legal documents to consumer goods such as sweaters and books
ordered over the Internet, making them economic bellwethers.
Together, they own or lease 1,170 aircraft, according to the
companies’ most recent annual reports.  20 Million Pieces  Satish Jindel , president of SJ Consulting Group in
Sewickley, Pennsylvania, estimated that Atlanta-based UPS and
FedEx move about 20 million pieces a day.  “It is many, many times more than all the bags transported
by the passenger airlines,” Jindel said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  Explosive-detection machinery costs millions of dollars,
and attempting to scan all packages simply won’t work, said  Hans Weber , owner of San Diego-based aviation consultant Tecop
International Inc.  “In this case, the cure could economically kill cargo
transportation by air,” Weber said.  Security systems already in place may have helped
authorities discover the packages at the center of the latest
probe, he said.  Yemen’s Role  Yemen figured into the U.S. inquiry of the last major
security threat on a U.S. jetliner, the attempted Christmas Day
bombing of a  Delta Air Lines Inc . plane on Dec. 25. President
 Barack Obama  told reporters in January that evidence indicates
that the suspect,  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab , was trained and
equipped by a Yemeni group affiliated with al-Qaeda.  This month, a Virginia man was arrested in what he thought
was an al-Qaeda plot to bomb Washington-area subway stations,
the Justice Department said. Farooque Ahmed, 34, of Ashburn, a
U.S. citizen born in Pakistan, is being held without bail.  Boucek, the Carnegie analyst, said sending explosives via
air-cargo carriers suggested that terrorists were exploring a
new avenue of attack.  “Since Christmas, they have done a lot of thinking about
what worked, what didn’t and what they could do differently next
time,” he said. “What scares me is that they used two
different carriers and multiple packages to find out which one
might get through and what the response would be.”  Cargo carriers have been using so-called trusted shipper
programs for years, which rely on known customers to declare
potentially hazardous or dangerous materials and to package them
properly.  There are “always going to be weaknesses” in any security
system, said  Richard Bloom , director of terrorism and security
at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott, Arizona.  “There is no such thing as a perfect security standard,”
he said. “You’re always going to find vulnerabilities. The
trick is to be up on the latest threat so it’s more and more
difficult for terrorists to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  