-- Dollar Falls to 15-Year Low Versus Yen on Fed Easing Outlook
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-29T21:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/yen-gains-versus-euro-dollar-on-asian-stock-drop-signs-recovery-sluggish.html
The dollar fell to a 15-year low
against the yen as slowing inflation added to speculation the
Federal Reserve will have greater latitude to expand asset
purchases next week to support the economic recovery.  The euro dropped against Japan’s currency as European Union
discussions on a permanent mechanism to deal with nations facing
default raised concern the region’s debt crisis may intensify
again. The dollar extended its drop against the yen as a report
before next week’s central bank meeting showed U.S. consumer
prices increased at a reduced pace.  “The dollar’s direction is going to be determined by how
much stimulus the Fed comes up with next week,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in Washington at Commonwealth
Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage. “Ultimately those
debt concerns and default concerns will keep the euro’s upside
limited even in an environment of a generally weaker dollar.”  The U.S. currency decreased 0.8 percent to 80.40 yen at 5
p.m. in New York, from 81.03 yesterday. It touched 80.39, the
lowest level since April 1995 and just above the post-World War
II low of 79.75 reached that month. The dollar fell 0.1 percent
to $1.3947 per euro, compared with $1.3930. The euro fell 0.8
percent to 112.12 yen, from 112.87 yen.  The dollar has fallen 2.2 percent versus the euro this
month on speculation Fed policy makers will debase the greenback
by increasing purchases of government debt. The U.S. central
bank will meet Nov. 2-3.  Slowing Inflation  The  price  gauge preferred by the Fed, which is tied to
consumer spending and strips out food and energy costs, climbed
at a 0.8 percent annual rate in the third quarter, the Commerce
Department reported. The median forecast of 20 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 1 percent pace.  The U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual
rate in the third quarter after a 1.7 percent increase in the
previous three months, the Commerce Department also reported.  “There was no upside surprise in the GDP reading,” said
 Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers
Group LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. “It puts back on the table
the prospect of possibly a larger ease.”  Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes tracking 10
developed-world currencies show the dollar fell 0.6 percent
today. It dropped 0.6 percent to $1.6038 versus the pound and
slid 0.2 percent to C$1.0194 versus the Canadian dollar.  Morgan Stanley View  The dollar may depreciate by the end of the year to $1.46
per euro, a level last reached in December, as the Fed buys more
assets, Morgan Stanley said in a research note to clients. The
firm previously estimated the greenback would trade at $1.36.  The yen had its sixth monthly gain against the dollar,
matching a stretch of advances that ended in January 2004.
Japan’s currency has appreciated more than 5 percent since
authorities acknowledged on Sept. 15 intervening for the first
time in six years to help the nation’s exporters by selling the
yen. Japan refrained from selling yen this month, the Ministry
of Finance said today.  The Bank of Japan yesterday moved forward the date of its
next meeting, fueling speculation it will follow the Fed in
increasing debt purchases to spur growth. Board members will
meet Nov. 4-5, more than a week earlier than scheduled.  A gauge of Asian currencies, led by Taiwan’s dollar, has
gained for a second month on bets Fed easing will increase the
amount of funds that can be invested in higher-yielding assets.  Asian Currencies  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, has risen
0.8 percent this month following September’s 2.6 percent
increase, the biggest since March 2009. Taiwan’s dollar gained 2
percent to 30.62 in October.  Brazil’s real dropped 2.9 percent against the dollar this
month in the biggest decrease among major currencies after the
government raised taxes on foreign inflows to stem its
currency’s gain. The real advanced 0.3 percent to 1.6991 today.  Figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed today that bets the  euro  will gain against the
dollar fell from almost the highest level since October 2009.  At a summit in Brussels, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
won European Union backing for a rewrite of treaties to create a
permanent debt-crisis mechanism by 2013, aiming to prevent a
repeat of the Greece-led shock that jolted the euro.  Merkel’s plan foresees an extension of debt maturities,
suspension of interest payments and a waiver on creditors’
claims, the Handelsblatt newspaper reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified government official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  