-- Typhoon Chaba Weakens After Lashing Japanese Islands
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-10-29T08:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/typhoon-chaba-weakens-over-pacific-after-lashing-southern-islands-of-japan.html
Typhoon Chaba weakened on a path
toward Japan’s main island of Honshu after lashing Okinawa and
other islands with rain and strong winds, injuring seven people,
forcing others to seek shelter and disrupting air travel.  Chaba was about 520 kilometers (323 miles) northeast of
Naha, Okinawa, and 800 kilometers south of Osaka at 2 p.m. local
time today, the Japan Meteorological Agency  said  on its website.
The storm was moving northeast at 20 kilometers per hour with
sustained winds of 130 kph and gusts to 185 kph, the agency
said.  The typhoon dumped as much as 50 millimeters (2 inches) of
rain per hour as it passed Okinawa and Amami island to the
northeast, where 3 people died in storms that triggered flooding
and landslides last week. The agency issued warnings for high
waves from Okinawa to southern Kyushu and advisories for gales
and thunderstorms.  Seven people suffered minor injuries in Okinawa prefecture
as the storm passed yesterday, national broadcaster NHK
Television  reported  today. On Amami island, 260 people took
refuge in temporary shelters, the Yomiuri newspaper  reported ,
citing local officials.  Japan Airlines Corp. canceled 17 flights between southern
islands, the company said in a  statement  on its website. Skymark
Airlines Inc., Japan’s biggest discount carrier,  said  it
canceled four flights including services from Naha to Kobe and
Fukuoka. All Nippon Airways Co. doesn’t expect disruptions
today, the company  said  in a statement, while advising
passengers to check before travel.  Ferries Canceled  Marix Line, which runs services between Okinawa, the Amami
islands and Kyushu, has canceled three ferries since Oct. 27,
including today’s from Naha to Kagoshima, the company  said .  The U.S. air force base of  Kadena  on Okinawa resumed normal
operations, according to a  statement  posted on its website. They
were suspended yesterday under the highest typhoon alert,
indicating winds stronger than 93 kph were blowing at the base.  Chaba is forecast to weaken into a tropical storm tomorrow
as it skirts the southern coast of Honshu, the U.S. Navy Joint
Typhoon Warning Center said in the latest  advisory  on its
website. It may remain offshore and pass about 115 kilometers
from Yokosuka, south of Tokyo, the center said.  Chaba, the 16th storm of the season, is the name of a
tropical flower in Thailand, according to the Hong Kong
Observatory, which  lists  names assigned to storms in the
northwest Pacific. The Japan weather bureau numbers Chaba as the
14th storm.  To contact the reporters on the story:  Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at
   ssbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 