-- Yuan Forwards Rise Most in a Week After Dollar Slumps in New York Trading
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-29T02:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/yuan-forwards-rise-most-in-a-week-after-dollar-slumps-in-new-york-trading.html
Yuan non-deliverable forwards rose
the most in almost a week as the central bank set the daily
reference rate stronger for the first time in four days and
after the dollar slumped in New York trading.  Pressure on China to allow faster currency appreciation is
building. The International Monetary Fund said decisions by
China and other Asian emerging economies to limit currency gains
is contributing to “significant exchange-rate misalignments,”
according to a report sent to finance officials from the Group
of 20 nations released today. G-20 countries last week said they
would refrain from “competitive devaluations.”  “The appreciation priced into the NDFs is too little given
the broad dollar picture and the fact China wants to be less
dependent on exports,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. Twelve-month
forwards will be pricing in a 5 percent gain in the yuan by
the end of this year, he said.  The contracts climbed 0.5 percent to 6.4475 per dollar as
of 10:45 a.m. in Hong Kong, reflecting bets the currency will
strengthen 3.6 percent from the spot rate of 6.6782, which has
climbed 0.2 percent this month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The central bank set the reference rate for yuan
trading at 6.6908, compared with 6.6986 yesterday.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority was forced to tap its yuan
swap arrangement with the People’s Bank of China after demand
for trade settlement using the currency exceeded expectations.  The Authority plans to draw 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion)
through the arrangement, out of the annual maximum of 200
billion yuan, to meet demand, Deputy Chief Executive  Arthur Yuen 
told reporters in Hong Kong yesterday. Banks should use long
yuan positions or buy the currency from other banks as needed,
he said.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan rose 0.9 percent
to 6.5700 per dollar, the biggest jump in more than a month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  The Dollar Index , which tracks the currency against those
of six major trading partners, dropped 1 percent in New York
yesterday, and was little changed today.  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  Simon Harvey ,  Ven Ram   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 