-- Zloty Heads for First Monthly Drop Since June as Poland Won't Raise Rates
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-29T10:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-29/zloty-heads-for-first-monthly-decline-since-june-on-polish-interest-rates.html
The Polish zloty headed for its
first monthly decline in four after the central bank kept
interest rates at a record low, rejecting calls from some policy
makers to raise borrowing costs as economic growth accelerates.  The zloty lost 0.3 percent to 3.9892 per euro as of 11:43
a.m. in Warsaw after depreciating as much as 0.6 percent to
4.0002, the lowest level since Sept. 1. The three-day losing
streak has extended the currency’s monthly drop to 0.6 percent,
the first since June. The Czech koruna has lost 0.3 percent this
month and the Hungarian forint gained 1.2 percent.  Poland’s central bank left the  main rate  at 3.5 percent for
a 16th month on Oct. 27 on concern that higher rates would
attract capital inflows, which could strengthen the zloty,
curbing exports and economic growth. Governor  Marek Belka  said
“it would be irresponsible” for Narodowy Bank Polski to
disregard global conditions as policy makers in the U.S. and
Europe keep borrowing costs close to zero.  “The zloty’s underperformance continues,” BNP Paribas SA
strategists led by  Shahin Vallee  in London wrote in a note to
clients. “A lot of investors will have to now reassess their
expectations for rate hikes in the coming months” after the
“dovish” statement from policy makers.  An increase in Polish interest rates may encourage
investors to speculate on the zloty, strengthening the currency,
 Witold Kozinski , a deputy central bank governor, told the PAP
newswire yesterday. Kozinski is not a member of the Monetary
Policy Council that sets the country’s interest rates.  Reserve Rate  The central bank’s decision means it probably won’t raise
borrowing costs next month, according to eight economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News yesterday. Policy makers this week
increased the mandatory reserve rate for banks by a half
percentage point to 3.5 percent in a “delicate signal” of a
future tightening in monetary policy, Belka said.  The council said it saw no current threat from
accelerating inflation because last month’s increase was driven
mainly by food prices, with core inflation remaining unchanged
at 1.2 percent. The consumer price index rose to 2.5 percent in
September, meeting the bank’s inflation target.  Poland was the only European Union member to avoid a
recession last year, with gross domestic product climbing 1.8
percent, the slowest in a decade. The economy will expand 3.5
percent this year, compared with the previous forecast of 3.2
percent, the central bank said in its projections for consumer
prices and gross domestic product published today in Warsaw. GDP
will grow 4.3 percent next year, down from the 4.6 percent
predicted in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  