-- ICA Appoints Soares as Chief Executive of ICA Norge
-- Meera Bhatia
-- 2008-08-13T08:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-08-13/ica-appoints-soares-as-chief-executive-of-ica-norge-update1-.html

          
          
             ICA AB, the Nordic food retailer
partly owned by Royal Ahold NV, named Antonio Soares as chief
executive officer of ICA Norge to improve sales and
profitability at the unit.  
 Soares, who is currently CEO of its Rimi Baltic AB unit,
will succeed Trond Kongroed, Solan, Sweden-based ICA said today
in a statement. Kongroed, who decided to resign, will remain
with ICA and his new post will be made public later in the fall.  
 ICA Norge, which posted a second-quarter loss, this year
started a program to lower prices and lure customers after
refurbishing outlets in recent years. ICA cut prices on 1,000
items in June as rival supermarkets become more competitive in
the region.  
 ``The efforts to reverse the negative trend in  Norway  and
improve sales and profitability will now continue under the
management of Antonio Soares,'' ICA said in the statement.  
 ICA Norge has almost 700 stores that are operated as
franchises or independent outlets in Norway. Its outlets include
hypermarkets, supermarkets,  discount stores  and so-called
neighborhood stores carrying the brand names ICA Naer, ICA
Supermarked, ICA Maxi and Rimi, its Web site shows.  
 The retailer will finance the price cuts through cost
reductions and negotiations with suppliers, it said Aug. 6.  
 Soares will report directly to ICA's CEO Kenneth Bengtsson.
In addition, Edgar Sesemann was named deputy-CEO of Rimi Baltic
and acting CEO, the company added. He will continue for now as
head of Rimi Estonia.  
 Amsterdam-based Ahold shares control of ICA with Hakon
Invest AB, also located in Solna,  Sweden .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        