-- Abbott's Surfing Lessons Trump Rudd's Barefoot Bowls in Charity Auction
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-06-17T02:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/abbott-s-surfing-lessons-trump-rudd-s-barefoot-bowls-in-charity-auction.html

          
          
             A surfing lesson with Australian
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  attracted a bigger price than
playing barefoot bowls with Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  at a
charity EBay Inc. auction.  
 GetUp!, a Sydney-based group that campaigns on political
issues, paid A$16,100 ($14,000) for Afghan refugee Riz Wakil to
have the lesson with Abbott in a bid to get him to soften his
stance on controlling asylum seekers. Abbott is favored in polls
to win an election due to be held in the next 10 months.  
 An unidentified bidder paid A$12,600 to play lawn bowling
without shoes with Rudd and Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and another
paid A$10,100 to have dinner with Deputy Prime Minister  Julia Gillard .  
 “Tony Abbott has to have a heart and I want him to have a
more humane approach to border protection,” Wakil, said in an
interview from his printing business in Sydney. “His policies
are not humane and won’t stop the number of asylum seekers
coming to Australia.”  
 Wakil, who came to Australia in 1999 on a fishing boat and
spent nine months in a detention center before becoming an
Australian citizen, has never been on a surfboard. Abbott, 52,
who won two boxing Blues while studying at Oxford University, is
a swimmer, surfer and cyclist.  
 His Liberal-National coalition has promised to increase
border protection measures, including turning back boats
carrying asylum seekers and processing refugee applications on
offshore islands. Abbott blames the Rudd government’s softer
border policies for an increase in the number of refugee boats
arriving on Australian shores.  
 Asylum Seekers  
 About 3,204 asylum seekers have arrived on 69 boats so far
this year, Immigration Department figures show. That compares
with 2,726 on 60 boats in 2009.  
 Abbott’s coalition led Rudd’s governing Labor party in a
Nielsen opinion poll published in the Sydney Morning Herald on
June 7. The coalition led labor 53 percent to 47 percent,
according to the poll that had a margin of error of 2.6
percentage points.  
 Since winning office in November 2007, Rudd has moved to
dismantle former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s “Pacific
Solution” policy of detaining refugees in island camps in third
countries and has pledged to speed up the assessment of asylum
claims.  
 The government in 2008 closed detention centers on Nauru
and Manus, a province of Papua New Guinea.  
 Rudd on April 9 halted processing new asylum claims from
Afghanistan and Sri Lanka to refute claims it had softened
border protection. Australia will  accept  13,750 refugees and
people who qualify under special humanitarian rules in the year
ending June 30, up from 13,507 in the previous year.  
 “People in Afghanistan are still being persecuted,” Wakil
said. “Tough measures will not stop people arriving on boats.
They are desperate.” He doesn’t yet know when the surfing
lesson with Abbott will be.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        