-- Abramovich Buys, Hirst Sells as Basel Dealers See Rising Demand
-- Scott Reyburn
-- 2010-06-17T23:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/abramovich-buys-hirst-sells-as-basel-dealers-hail-return-to-2007-demand.html

          
          
             Roman Abramovich  was buying and
 Damien Hirst  works selling yesterday in Basel as art dealers
hailed a return to levels of demand seen before the financial
crisis.  
 The Russian billionaire was among VIP collectors in
Switzerland for the world’s largest fair of modern and
contemporary art. Trophy works by established names and
affordable pieces by up-and-coming artists led Art Basel sales.  
 “It was like 2007,” Glenn Scott Wright, a director at
London’s  Victoria Miro  gallery, said in an interview. “Pretty
much everything on the booth sold on the first day.”  
 For many of the 303 galleries from 36 countries showing at
this year’s 41st edition of the fair, demand has gathered
momentum. Last year, better-than-expected Basel sales pointed to
an improvement in the market that had seen prices decline as
much as 50 percent after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings in September 2008.  
 At the top end of the contemporary market, sales of high-
value works by art-boom favorites such as Hirst and  Takashi Murakami  gave dealers the most cheer.  
 Los Angeles-based  Blum & Poe  sold a 2009 diptych of
Murakami paintings based on the artist’s sculptures “My
Lonesome Cowboy” and “Hiropon,” priced at $1 million.  
 Paris dealer Galerie  Emmanuel Perrotin  sold a version of
Murakami’s bronze of a Manga-style “Yume Lion,” priced at $1.3
million, to a European collector.  
 While there was a higher proportion of Asian faces in the
crowd, few galleries were able to confirm sales to new Chinese
collectors. American and European clients continued to dominate.  
 White Cube  
 A European collector bought a new 9-foot-wide Hirst jewel-
cabinet, “Memories of Love,” priced at 2.35 million pounds
($3.48 million) at the booth of the artist’s London dealer,
 White Cube . By the fair’s third day, White Cube had sold six of
Hirst’s most recent series of personally executed paintings for
prices ranging from 575,000 pounds to 2.5 million pounds.  
 Hirst prices dropped after the 111.5-million-pound
“Beautiful Inside My Head Forever” auction at Sotheby’s on the
day that Lehman collapsed. The sale included a jewel-cabinet
piece identical in size to the one sold at Art Basel. It reached
5.2 million pounds. Since then, Hirst’s works have been a less
ubiquitous presence at contemporary-art auctions.  
 “The market got egregiously frenzied from 2006 to 2008,”
the New York-based art adviser  Todd Levin  said in an interview.
“This year’s Art Basel has shown things have returned to a
certain level of normality.”  
 Hot Artist  
 “Prices haven’t fully recovered,” Levin said. “Two years
ago, works by a hot artist like  Anselm Reyle  were selling for
$400,000 at fairs like Art Basel. Now they’re priced at $100,000
and you just don’t see them. If anything, collectors are
thinking more about money than they were two years ago.”  
 New York-based gallerist  Marianne Boesky  sold a 2010
minimalist blue abstract by Donald Moffett for $60,000.  
 “Buyers respond well to blue-chip works and pieces by
emerging artists if they’re correctly valued,” Boesky said.
“If you overprice an artist you’re not going to sell it.”  
 “There’s less speculation,” said Frank Demaegd, director
of Antwerp-based  Zeno X  Gallery. “People don’t come thinking
that if they buy something it will double in price in one or two
years.”  
 Slovakian-born Tomas Libertiny was the artist attracting
most attention at the Design Miami/Basel fair.  
 His honeycomb-covered 2010 sculpture of a crucified man in
a vitrine, “The Unbearable Lightness,” was bought by
Abramovich for 65,000 euros ($80,460) on the booth of the London
dealers Carpenters Workshop Gallery, the dealer said.  
 Art Basel’s main sponsor is  UBS AG . The event takes place
at Messe Basel, Messeplatz, 4005 Basel through June 20.  
 Information:  http://www.artbasel.com/go/id/ss/lang/eng/   
 ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in Basel at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       ''The Unbearable Lightness"  
                       
                         
                           Carpenters Workshop Gallery via Bloomberg 
                         
                         ''The Unbearable Lightness," by Slovakian designer Tomas Libertiny. The work, made with the help of live bees, is an edition of six and was priced at 65,000 euros at the booth of Carpenters Workshop Gallery at the Design Miami/Basel fair in Switzerland. The buyer was Roman Abramovich, according to dealers. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     ''The Unbearable Lightness," by Slovakian designer Tomas Libertiny. The work, made with the help of live bees, is an edition of six and was priced at 65,000 euros at the booth of Carpenters Workshop Gallery at the Design Miami/Basel fair in Switzerland. The buyer was Roman Abramovich, according to dealers. Source: Carpenters Workshop Gallery via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Memories of Love"  
                       
                         
                           Gareth Brown/White Cube via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Memories of Love," a jewel-cabinet piece by Damien Hirst. Containing 6,000 laboratory-produced gemstones, it was priced at 2.35 million pounds. The work was offered by the London-based dealers White Cube at the Art Basel fair in Switzerland and sold to a European collector. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Memories of Love," a jewel-cabinet piece by Damien Hirst. Containing 6,000 laboratory-produced gemstones, it was priced at 2.35 million pounds. The work was offered by the London-based dealers White Cube at the Art Basel fair in Switzerland and sold to a European collector.  Photographer: Gareth Brown/White Cube via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Fiberglass and plastic pumpkin sculptures by Yayoi Kusama. The works are offered by the London dealer Victoria Miro at the Art Basel fair in Switzerland, which previewed on June 15. Dating from 2010, they are priced at $210,000 and $262,500 each. Photographer: Serge Hasenbohler/Victoria Miro via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
