-- Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank, Air Arabia, Arabtec, Dana: Gulf Equity Preview
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-06-17T05:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/abu-dhabi-commercial-bank-air-arabia-arabtec-dana-gulf-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following stocks may rise or
fall in Gulf Arab markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are from the last close.  
 Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  gained 0.3 percent, while
Dubai’s  DFM General Index  retreated 1 percent to the lowest in
four months. Benchmark indexes in  Oman  and  Bahrain  fell 0.1
percent and Kuwait’s  gauge  advanced 0.2 percent. Saudi Arabia’s
market is closed for the weekend.  
 Air Arabia PJSC  (AIRARABI UH): The United Arab Emirates’
biggest low-cost carrier was raised to “overweight” from
“neutral” and assigned a 12-month price estimate of 1.10
dirhams at HSBC Holdings Plc. The shares retreated 1.8 percent
to 82 fils.  
 Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC  (ADCB UH): Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc agreed to sell its retail banking assets in
the U.A.E to ADCB, the third largest bank in the country by
assets. ADCB shares rose 2 percent to 1.54 dirhams.  
      Arabtec Holding PJSC  (ARTC UH): The U.A.E.’s biggest
builder expects to receive final approval for a delayed Gazprom
tower project by the end of the year, the builder’s Chief
Financial Officer  Ziad Makhzoumi  said in remarks to Al Arabiya
television yesterday.  
 Separately, the company said in a statement today it was
not informed of any decision to halt the Okhta Center project in
Russia. The shares declined 2.6 percent to 1.85 dirhams.  
      Dana Gas PJSC  (DANA UH): The explorer and producer
operating in Egypt and Iraq said the board will consider buying
back the company’s shares. The board will review projects in the
U.A.E. and Iraq’s Kurdish region at a meeting on June 22. The
shares advanced 1.6 percent to 63 fils.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        