-- Acampora Says S&P 500 Will Rally on Psychology Shift: Technical Analysis
-- Elizabeth Stanton
-- 2010-06-17T15:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/acampora-says-s-p-500-will-rally-on-psychology-shift-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks are likely to add to the
gains that lifted the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  6.1 percent
through yesterday from a seven-month low on June 7, said  Ralph Acampora , whose career as a technical analyst began in 1966.  
 The magnitude of the market’s decline in May, as the S&P
500 fell 8.2 percent for its  biggest drop  in 15 months, and the
effect on investor sentiment make possible a rally that might
extend the advance to as much as 12 percent, Acampora said in a
telephone interview yesterday. Technical analysts view pessimism
as a sign that stocks may rise, because it indicates investors
have capacity to buy shares after avoiding the market.  
 “The damage in price and the damage in psychology has set
us up on a very short-term basis for a good recovery,” Acampora
said. “The low that we made a couple of days ago I think is a
good one, and I think we could set the stage for a 10-plus
percent recovery.”  
 Gains beyond that will depend on the stocks that  lead  the
advance, Acampora said. Leadership from “aggressive”
industries such as technology, and participation in the gains by
small- and medium-sized companies will bode well for the market,
while a rally led by large companies and defensive stocks such
as utilities is likely to stall, he said.  
 Moves by the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  and the Dow Jones
Transportation Average to new highs also would signal that the
bull market that began in March 2009 can continue, Acampora
said.  
 “If we don’t get the broadening, the quality leadership,
if we don’t get new highs, we set ourselves up for another
selloff in September-October,” he said.  
 Four-Decade Career  
 Acampora, a New York-based director at Alverita LLC, came
out of retirement last year to manage funds sold to European
investors by Geneva-based Altaira Wealth Management. His four-
decade Wall Street career included stints as director of
technical research at Kidder Peabody & Co. and Prudential
Securities. Technical analysts make predictions based on price
and volume chart patterns.  
 U.S. stock benchmarks rose to their highest levels of the
year in April, extending the rebound from last year’s 12-year
low in the S&P 500 to 80 percent. The main benchmark for
American equities then tumbled 14 percent amid concern about the
widening European debt crisis, the biggest-ever U.S. oil spill
in the Gulf of Mexico, financial-services regulation, and
indications U.S. economic growth is slowing.  
 As stock prices fell, investor sentiment deteriorated. A
weekly analysis of investment newsletters by  Investors
Intelligence  in New Rochelle, New York, last week found the
lowest bullish percentage since Feb. 16 and the highest bearish
percentage since July 2009. The American Association of
Individual Investors, which polls its members weekly, saw the
bullish percentage fall to 30 percent at the end of May from 48
percent in mid-April, and the bearish percentage rise to 51
percent from 30 percent.  
 “I like the tenor of the market -- everyone’s so bearish
now,” Acampora said. “From a very short-term point of view,
looking out a month or so, I’d rather be long.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        