-- Advanced Cell, Isohunt, BCGC: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-17T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/advanced-cell-isohunt-teksystems-downloading-ban-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Advanced Cell Technology Inc. , a
biotech company in the regenerative medicine area, received a
U.S. patent on a process to produce cells used to treat eye
diseases such as retinitis pigmentosa and neurological disorders
such as Parkinson’s disease.  
 Patent 7,736,896, which was one of  5029 U.S. patents  issued
June 15, is for a method of producing human retinal pigment
epithelium cells. The process involves differentiating human
embryonic stem cells into the desired cell types.  
 Worcester, Massachusetts-based Advanced Cell Technology
applied for the patent in July 2005, with the assistance of New
York’s  Hunton & Williams LLP .  
 The company said in a statement yesterday that it has filed
an application to test the cells in humans as a treatment for
Stargardt’s Macular Dystrophy, a rare hereditary disease.
Advanced Cell Technology said it also plans to use the cells to
treat an eye condition known as dry Age-related Macular
Degeneration, which commonly affects people over the age of 60.  
 The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has granted the cells
covered by the patent an “orphan drug” status, which is given
to potential treatments for rare conditions, the company said in
its statement.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Isohunt Tells Appeals Court Search Ban Order Is Overbroad  
 Isohunt Web Technologies Inc. , a Bit Torrent file sharing
system, asked a federal appeals court to overturn an order
barring searches for movie titles.  
 U.S. District Judge Stephen H. Wilson issued an order in
March barring Isohunt and founder Gary Fung from a wide range of
what the judge deemed infringing conduct. Earlier he found Fung
and Isohunt liable for infringement because they “engaged in
purposeful, culpable expression and conduct aimed at promoting
infringing uses” of their websites.  
 A group of movie studios including  Walt Disney Co. ,
Paramount Pictures and  Columbia Pictures Industries Inc.  sued
Fung and Isohunt for copyright infringement in federal court in
Los Angeles in September 2006, claiming Isohunt infringed film
copyrights and facilitated infringement by others.  
 Fung and Isohunt filed  court papers  with the U.S. Court of
Appeals in San Francisco on June 15, asking the court to keep
Wilson’s orders from taking effect until they could appeal his
rulings.  
 The lawyer representing the defendants, Ira P. Rothken of
the  Rothken Law Firm  of Novato, California, is arguing that
Wilson reached too far with his order, and that barring the
searches of movie titles violated the First Amendment.  
 The lower court case is Columbia Pictures Industries Inc.,
v. Gary Fung, 2:06-cv-05578-SVW-JC, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles). The appeals court case is
Columbia Picture Industries v. Gary Fung, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, 10-ff946 (San Francisco).  
 Universities Told They Must Enforce Illegal Downloading Ban  
 The U.S. Department of Education has sent a “Dear
Colleague” letter to U.S. universities reminding them they must
develop a plan to combat students’ illegal downloading and
distribution of digital content.  
 The  letter,  sent June 4, tells the universities that if
they wish to participate in the Title IV federal student loan
program, they have to set up a mechanism to educate their
communities about appropriate and inappropriate use of
copyrighted material.  
 Schools are also required to develop disciplinary
procedures for unauthorized distribution of copyrighted
material, and to use one or more of what the letter calls
“technology-based deterrents.”  
 Students must be notified of these measures every year
through a direct individual notice to each enrolled student.  
 The law mandating these measures is the  Higher Education
Opportunity Act of 2008 , which was signed by President George
Bush in August 2008. The enforcement provisions begin this year
on July 1.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Axial Vector Applies to Register ‘Good Green Energy’ Trademark  
 Axial Vector Energy Corp. , a Dubai-based developer of
engine and electric power-generator technologies, is seeking to
register “Good Green Energy” as a trademark.  
 According to the application filed with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office June 8, the company plans to use the mark for
anti-knock substances for internal combustion engines and for
consultations in the field of custom fabrication of power-
generation engines and the generation of energy.  
 The company said in a statement that it will use the mark
for a new line of smart electric grid products.  
 Urban Outfitters Awarded $1.3 Million in Fees, Sanctions  
 Urban Outfitters Inc. , the Philadelphia-based clothing
chain, was awarded $1.3 million in attorney fees and sanctions
of $5,000 in a trademark infringement case.  
 The retailer sued BCBG Max Ariza Group Inc. of Vernon,
California, for trademark infringement in federal court in
Philadelphia in September 2006. The suit related to Urban
Outfitters’ “Free People” trademark, used for a line of
clothing and a group of retail stores.  
 Urban Outfitters objected to BCBG’s “True People” line
introduced at the 2006  Magic apparel-industry trade show  in Las
Vegas. In August 2007, the court found that BCBG had infringed
and issued an order barring its use of “True People.”  
 At that time, the judge didn’t award attorney fees, so
Urban Outfitters appealed. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit upheld the trial court’s infringement finding and
told the judge to take another look at BCBG’s conduct in light
of an attorney fee award.  
 In his June 11 order, U.S. District Judge Michael M.
Baylson noted that BCBG had argued “26 separate legal reasons”
why Urban Outfitters shouldn’t get attorneys fees and also
claimed that the Philadelphia chain’s own lawyers’ conduct was
“egregious.”  
 The judge said BCBG and codefendant Street Beat Sportswear
Inc. of Brooklyn “extended this litigation unduly,” and caused
the court “to spend time on irrelevant matters.”  
 Urban outfitters was represented by  Alfred W. Putnam Jr. ,
 Mary E. Kohart ,  Michael J. Rinaldi , Noah A. Levin,  William J.
Lehane  and  William M. McSwain  of Philadelphia’s  Drinker Biddle &
Reath LLP .  
 BCBG was represented by Keith Lee,  M. Kelly Tillery  and
 Christopher D. Olyszyk Jr.  of Philadelphia’s  Pepper Hamilton LLP 
and  Neil B. Friedman  of  Baker & Rannells PA  of Raritan, New
Jersey.  
 The case is Urban Outfitters Inc. v. BCBG Max Azria Group
Inc., 2:06-cv-04003-MMB, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Allegis Claims Ex-Employee’s Use of LinkedIn Violates Agreement  
 Allegis Group Inc.’s TEKsystems’ trade-secrets case against
three former employees is set for trial in August 2011,
according to court filings.  
 An unusual element in the case is TEKsystems’ assertion
that a non-compete agreement was violated by one of its former
employees through her use of LinkedIn Corp.’s social networking
website. TEKsystems, a technology staffing company, is based in
Hanover, Maryland.  
 TEKsystems claimed Brelyn Hammernick used LinkedIn’s
systems to contact her former colleagues and solicit business
after she moved to Horizontal Integration Inc., of Minnetonka,
Minnesota, a TEKsystems competitor.  
 Hammernick’s actions violated the employment agreement she
signed when she went to work as a recruiter in January 2007,
according to the complaint filed March 16 in federal court in
Minnesota.  
 In her response to the TEKsystems complaint, Hammernick
said that, while she “linkedin” with TEKsystems employees, she
didn’t communicate with them in any other fashion. She and her
codefendants said their use of LinkedIn and Facebook Inc.’s
social networking site weren’t for promotional purposes or for
the exchange of any trade-secret or confidential information.  
 In her May 28 order, Magistrate Judge Susan Richard Nelson
said all pretrial information gathering in the case had to be
completed by Feb. 1, 2011, and that the parties should be ready
for a five- to seven-day trial beginning Aug. 1, 2011.  
 TEKsystems is represented by George R. Wood of San
Francisco’s  Littler Mendelson PC .  
 The case is TEKsystems Inc. v. Hammernick,
10-cv-00819-PJS-SRN, U.s. District Court, District of Minnesota.  
 IP Moves  
 Honigman Miller Hires Skadden Arps Patent Litigator Zelenock  
 Honigman Miller Schwartz & Cohn LLP  hired Emily J. Zelenock
for its IP practice, the Detroit-based firm said in a  statement .  
 Zelenock , a litigator, joins from New York’s  Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP . She has represented clients whose
technologies include mechanical devices, pharmaceuticals,
medical devices, engine parts, electronics, apparel, software,
financial applications and semiconductor chips.  
 She has handled patent, trade secret, unfair competition
and antitrust disputes in federal and state courts, arbitration
proceedings, and the International Trade Commission.  
 Zelenock has an undergraduate degree in biology and history
and a law degree from the University of Michigan. She is a
candidate for a master of laws degree from L’Università degli
Studi di Torino.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        