-- Afghanistan Seeks New Bids for Hajigak Iron Deposit, Other Mine Investment
-- Eltaf Najafizada
-- 2010-06-17T10:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/afghanistan-seeks-new-bids-for-hajigak-iron-deposit-other-mine-investment.html

          
          
             Afghanistan  will invite global
mining companies by September to bid for rights to develop one
of its richest known mineral fields, the Hajigak iron ore
deposit, Mines Minister  Wahidullah Shahrani  said.  
 Shahrani cancelled a previous  bidding process  in February
after it failed to attract major mining companies and only one
of seven bidders visited the site, 100 kilometers (62 miles)
west of Kabul. Shahrani will fly to London next week for a
conference that the government hopes will draw as many as 200
companies to hear details on the prospects for mining investment
in Afghanistan.  
 “The bidding process for the Hajigak iron ore deposit will
be re-started in August or September,” when the government
issues a new tender, Shahrani told a press conference in Kabul.
He said the government then will take six to nine months to
award a license for the 1.8 billion ton ore field.  
 The June 25 London meeting to boost interest in Afghan
mining will come 11 days after a front-page New York Times story
and announcements by U.S. Defense Department officials reported
U.S. estimates that Afghan minerals are valued at more than $1
trillion.  
 As the Obama administration tries to stabilize the Afghan
government of President  Hamid Karzai  against Taliban insurgents,
it is promoting the “development of this mineral resource to
support the  economic sovereignty  of Afghanistan,” U.S. Deputy
Under Secretary of State  Paul Brinkley  told reporters June 14.  
 Karzai says Afghanistan needs mining jobs to improve living
standards rated by the 2009 United Nations Human Development
Report as the world’s  second-most impoverished .  
 ‘4,000 Jobs’  
 The country’s only current major mining project, at the
Aynak copper deposit south of Kabul, may create 4,000 jobs for
Afghans, Shahrani said, when the  Metallurgical Corp. of China
Ltd.  begins production there as early as 2014.  
 The Afghan Taliban’s increasing ability to attack even
protected sites such as the U.S. airbase at Bagram has
discouraged big mining companies from investing in the country.
Another hurdle is laws that offer mining companies too few
protections, said U.S. geologist James Yeager, a former
consultant to the ministry on the Aynak project.  
 Afghanistan has never had a strong central government and
U.S. officials say official corruption is one reason why
Karzai’s administration has been unable to impose itself over
regional warlords in the country’s 34 provinces.  
 “Afghanistan has no capacity to manage these resources in
a transparent, equitable fashion, so inevitably it will be the
warlords who will be the beneficiaries and collect the resource
rents,” says  Michael Klare , professor of Peace and World
Security Studies at Hampshire College in Amherst, Massachusetts,
and author of a  2008 book , “Rising Powers, Shrinking Planet.”  
 New Laws  
 Shahrani said the government is working to counter such
doubts. “We have brought in new minerals and hydrocarbons laws,
which meet international standards of governance,” he said in  a
written statement  issued at his press conference.  
 “Afghanistan has huge untapped natural energy and mineral
resources which have enormous potential for our economic
development and national growth,” the statement said.
“Ensuring this is done in the most transparent and efficient
way whilst delivering the greatest value to the country is a
priority for the government,” it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Eltaf Najafizada  in Kabul,
Afghanistan at   enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        