-- Agricultural Bank of China, Standard Chartered Enter Strategic Agreement
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-17T06:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/agricultural-bank-of-china-standard-chartered-enter-strategic-agreement.html

          
          
             Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. ,
seeking to raise as much as $28 billion in the world’s largest
initial public offering, agreed to cooperate with Standard
Chartered Plc as it adds international partners.  
 The banks will explore opportunities to work together in
retail and wholesale banking in China and abroad, according to
an e-mailed statement from Standard Chartered today. The pact
will enable access for Chinese businesses to international
capital markets and take advantage of growing trade within Asia
and between Asia and Africa, according to the statement.  
 Agricultural Bank gains access to the global network of
London-based Standard Chartered, which  includes  operations in 14
African countries. For Standard Chartered, the agreement allows
the lender to speed up growth in the world’s most populous
nation by partnering with China’s largest bank by customers.  
 Hong Kong, where Standard Chartered has a stock listing,
has been picked as a potential “pilot region” for cooperation
between the two lenders under the partnership. Standard
Chartered makes at least three quarters of its  profit  in Asia.  
 Standard Chartered rose 4.3 percent to HK$195 at the midday
trading break in Hong Kong. The stock has  climbed  0.2 percent
this year, outpacing the 8 percent drop in the benchmark Hang
Seng Index.  
 Rabobank Partnership  
 Agricultural Bank is reserving as much as 40 percent of the
Hong Kong shares for corporate investors who will agree not to
sell their holdings for a few months in exchange, said two
people with knowledge on June 9. Rabobank Groep NV, Qatar
Investment Authority, Kuwait Investment Authority and Archer
Daniels Midland Co. were among those in advanced talks to buy
shares through this arrangement, they added.  
 Rabobank, the world’s biggest agricultural lender, on June
4 said it will start a strategic partnership with Agricultural
Bank to strengthen its position in China. The Dutch and Chinese
banks will jointly explore opportunities in wholesale banking,
leasing and asset management to develop and distribute products
through Agricultural Bank’s network, Rabobank said.  
 Standard Chartered didn’t say in today’s statement whether
the bank will buy shares in Agricultural Bank’s IPO.  
 Standard Chartered aims to quadruple the number of branches
it has in China this year, the Hong Kong Economic Journal
reported today, citing  Lin Qingde , the company’s president for
the country.  Gabriel Kwan , a spokeswoman for Standard Chartered
in Hong Kong, didn’t return repeated calls seeking comment.  
 Agricultural Bank, based in Beijing, may raise as much as
$15 billion in the Hong Kong part of the IPO, according to an e-
mail this week that was sent to investors.  
 The top end of the Hong Kong offering size indicated in the
e-mail would allow the bank to raise $19 billion to $28 billion
in the city and Shanghai combined, meaning the IPO could be the
largest since the $22 billion sale by Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. in 2006.  
 Agricultural Bank is reserving as much as 40 percent of the
Shanghai part of the IPO to so-called cornerstone investors
after exercising an over-allotment option, the bank  said 
yesterday.  
 -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong.
Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Brett Miller   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        