-- Land Securities Sells London Park House for $367 Million to Qatar's Barwa
-- Tim Barwell
-- 2010-06-17T16:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/land-securities-sells-london-park-house-for-367-million-to-qatar-s-barwa.html

          
          
             Land Securities Group Plc  agreed to
sell the biggest development on London’s Oxford Street in about
40 years to Qatar’s Barwa Real Estate Co., generating earnings
from the site years earlier than planned.  
 Barwa will pay 250 million pounds ($370 million) for Park
House, an office and retail project in the West End district,
London-based Land Securities said in a statement today. Barwa’s
biggest shareholder is Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund.  
 “It crystallizes a profit on the site with minimum risk
and Land Securities is able to reinvest the proceeds in other
profitable schemes,”  Harm Meijer , a London-based analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. with a “neutral” rating on the stock,
said in a note to investors today.  
 The transaction means that Barwa rather than Land
Securities, Britain’s largest real estate investment trust, will
pay for Park House’s construction and will have to find tenants
for the building. The U.K. company will act as development
manager responsible for completing the property.  
 “This sale enables us to realize the majority of our
profit ahead of schedule, with significantly reduced risk and
with no capital employed,”  Robert Noel , managing director of
Land Securities’ London portfolio, said in the statement.  
 Rising Rents  
 Land Securities said in January that work on the
development in Europe’s busiest shopping district would start in
May and be completed in 2012. The company predicted rising rents
because of a lack of new properties becoming available over the
next two years.  
 Park House will include 165,000 square feet (15,000 square
meters) of office space, 90,000 square feet of shops and 39
homes, Land Securities said. The sale price was based on the
company’s estimates that the office space will be leased at 90
pounds a square foot and the retail space at 500 pounds a square
foot, said London-based Credit Suisse AG analyst  Steve Bramley- Jackson , who has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  
 “I suspect they have extracted a very good price,”
Bramley-Jackson said. “They are selling it at a point when
there is very strong demand.”  
 Land Securities fell 13.5 pence, or 2.2 percent, to 615
pence in London trading. The stock has advanced 32 percent in
the last 12 months, giving the company a market value of 4.7
billion pounds.  
 Qatar Powerhouse  
 Barwa approached Land Securities earlier this year about
buying Park House, Land Securities spokesman  Donal McCabe  said
today.  
 Qatari funds are likely to be the “powerhouse” of global
real estate investment this year, property adviser Jones Lang
LaSalle said in a report three days ago.  
 Qatar Investment Authority, the country’s sovereign wealth
fund, last month bought Harrods, London’s best-known store, and
last year became the largest investor in  Songbird Estates Plc ,
the majority owner of the Canary Wharf development in the U.K.
capital’s Docklands area.  
 The wealth fund, which owns 45 percent of Barwa, is in
talks to buy about 33 percent of London’s Savoy Hotel and is one
of the bidders for the Grosvenor House Hotel, the London-based
Times said today.  
 In 2008, Barwa and other Qatari investors bought 80 percent
of the Shard, an 80-story tower being built near London’s river
Thames. Three days ago they bought out the building’s only
office tenant in anticipation that rents will almost double from
the agreed rate when the skyscraper is completed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Barwell  in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        