-- Manufacturers' Index Falls in June on Surprise Export Weakness, CBI Says
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-17T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/manufacturers-index-falls-in-june-on-surprise-export-weakness-cbi-says.html

          
          
             A U.K. index of  factory orders 
dropped in June for the first time in three months as export
sales weakened, the Confederation of British  Industry  said.  
 The gauge slipped to minus 23 from minus 18 in May, the
nation’s biggest business lobby said in London today. A measure
of  export  orders declined five points to minus 2, showing the
first negative balance since December. The CBI surveyed 498
companies from May 25 to June 9.  
 U.K. manufacturing  unexpectedly weakened in April for the
first time in three months, a sign the  economic recovery  may be
struggling to keep momentum. Britain faces the largest  public
spending  cuts in a generation at home and the threat of a slower
economic growth in the euro area, its biggest trading partner,
from the sovereign debt crisis.  
 “Although demand for U.K.-made goods has weakened a little
this month, the manufacturing sector remains on path of
recovery, with conditions much improved on just a few months
ago,” CBI Chief Economic Adviser  Ian McCafferty  said in a
statement. “U.K. exports continue to be boosted by the weak
pound and strengthening world trade.”  
 The decline in the factory index in June was driven by
“sharp deteriorations” in orders for capital goods
manufacturers, the CBI said. Capital goods are machines or
components used in oil, gas and mineral extraction, as well as
in the manufacturing of other products such as cars, lifting
equipment and planes.  
 Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  cautioned late
yesterday that the U.K. economy remains vulnerable to the crisis
in the euro area. The European Central Bank last week cut its
growth forecast for the euro region in 2011 to 1.2 percent from
an earlier projection of 1.5 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        