-- Arabica-Coffee Prices Decline for Second Day Amid Signs Rally Went Too Far
-- Elizabeth Campbell
-- 2010-06-17T18:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/arabica-coffee-prices-decline-for-second-day-amid-signs-rally-went-too-far.html

          
          
             Arabica-coffee futures fell the most
in almost two weeks on speculation that six sessions of price
gains went too far. Cocoa prices also declined.  
 Arabica coffee jumped 20 percent in a six-session rally
through June 15, while robusta prices surged 18 percent over
seven sessions. Production in Brazil, the world’s largest
producer, will rise 23 percent in the year starting July 1,
according to a unit of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  
 “We’ve pretty much gotten the market to where it has to
be,” said  Jack Scoville , a vice president at Price Group Inc.,
a broker in Chicago. “We’ve done enough. We’re just kind of
trading sideways trying to consolidate through here.”  
 Arabica coffee for September delivery fell 1.8 cents, or
1.1 percent, to $1.578 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
That’s the biggest decline for the most-active contract since
June 4. On London’s Liffe exchange,  robusta-coffee futures for
September delivery  declined $15, or 1 percent, to $1,551 a
metric ton.  
 Earlier arabica prices climbed as much as 0.8 percent.
Arabica coffee is grown mainly in Latin America and brewed by
specialty companies including Starbucks Corp. Robusta beans,
used in instant coffee, are harvested mostly in Asia and parts
of Africa.  
 Coffee harvests in Indonesia may be delayed because of
heavy rainfall this week, MDA Information Systems Inc. said
today.  
 ‘Fundamentals Point Higher’  
 “Overall, the tone and the fundamentals are definitely
pointing to higher prices,” said  James Calcagnini , the
president of East Coast Options Services in New York. In
“Central America in general, production is significantly lower,
demand is steady, and there’s just not a lot of availability for
exchange-deliverable coffees.”  
 The USDA is scheduled to release a production, supply and
distribution report on the world coffee market tomorrow at 3:30
p.m.  
 In New York, cocoa futures for September delivery fell $1 to
$2,954 a ton. In London, cocoa futures for July delivery lost 12
pounds, or 0.5 percent, to 2,418 pounds ($3,584) a ton on Liffe.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in New York at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        