-- Maradona Is Focus of Attention as Argentina Makes Perfect World Cup Start
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-17T22:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/maradona-is-focus-of-attention-as-argentina-makes-perfect-world-cup-start.html

          
          
             Diego Maradona  shouts during
Argentina’s matches. He gestures. He argues with opposing
coaches, and generally is the center of attention. It doesn’t
matter to his players, who keep winning at the World Cup.  
 Argentina’s 4-1 victory over South Korea yesterday gives
the team a perfect start in South Africa. The team, which
qualified for the event in South America’s last automatic 
slot, has the tournament’s top scorer and leads Group B 
with 6 points.  
 Yesterday, the 49-year-old gave the photographers a show.
He was frequently on his feet urging his team forward. He even
had time for an argument with opposing coach Huh Jung Moo.  
 “I didn’t actually understand what he was trying to say to
me,” Huh, who played against Maradona at the World Cup in 1986,
told reporters. “There are a lot of physical things that can
happen on the pitch and I don’t think it’s appropriate for
coaches to direct comments at each other.”  
 Maradona took over Argentina’s national team in November
2008 and the squad struggled to extend the country’s record of
reaching every World Cup since 1974, clinching a berth in its
final qualifying match. Critics have questioned the wisdom of
appointing the national icon, whose managerial expertise was
limited to two failed spells with minor clubs in his own
country.  
 Argentina got three goals from  Gonzalo Higuain  and a 17th
minute own goal from Park Chu Young, making Maradona’s team the
first to win two straight games in the tournament. It beat
Nigeria 1-0 in its opening group match on June 12.  
 Maradona’s Heir  
 Maradona, who led Argentina to the 1986 championship with a
series of individual performances, raced onto the field to
celebrate with his team. He left the field embracing  Lionel Messi , the 22-year-old forward who’s the reigning FIFA world
player of the year.  
 “It’s up to the players to say if I’m good or not,” the
Argentina coach told reporters after the game at Soccer City in
Soweto, Johannesburg. “But if you have such a sensational team
it’s easy.”  
 Maradona’s rise to the top coaching job in his country
looked unlikely as he struggled to cope with life after
finishing his soccer career in 1997.  
 He suffered from alcohol and drug dependency and almost
died in 2004 because of heart failure. A year later he had his
stomach stapled after his weight ballooned because of binge
eating. He’s also been arrested for shooting at reporters.  
 “With everything that’s happened to me in football and
life, I’ve had good and bad experiences,” he said. “I’ve
always been there to help and guide the players. I decided to be
coach and during this time I’ve learnt enormously.”  
 The type of shots that were blocked in the one-goal victory
over Nigeria were often successful against the Koreans, who’d
beaten Greece 2-0 in their first game.  
 Hat Trick  
 “I’m very happy to get a hat-trick but I have to enjoy it
without getting ahead of myself,” Higuain told reporters. “I
knew we would get chances and it was only a case of converting
them. Luckily the ones that didn’t go in against Nigeria went in
today.”  
 Argentina’s struggles in qualifying led bookmakers and
experts not to consider Maradona’s team among the likely winners
of the tournament.  
 “We hope the media continues to talk about other teams and
doesn’t make Argentina the favorites,” striker  Carlos Tevez 
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at Soccer City via the London newsroom on +44-
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Argentina's coach Diego Maradona, right, and Argentina's striker Lionel Messi speak after their Group B first round 2010 World Cup football match Argentina versus South Korea on June 17. Photographer: Gabriel Bouys/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
