-- Argentina's Dollar Bonds Rise to One-Month High as Investors Seek Yield
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-06-17T15:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/argentina-s-dollar-bonds-rise-to-one-month-high-as-investors-seek-yield.html

          
          
             Argentine dollar bonds advanced to
their highest price in a month as investors sought the South
American country’s higher-yielding securities, and the
government’s pension agency Anses bought debt.  
 The yield on dollar bonds due in 2015 slid eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 13.19 percent at 11:14 a.m.
New York time. The price climbed 0.27 cent to 78.5 cents on the
dollar, the highest level since May 17.  
 Argentine debt is advancing as the government’s offer to
restructure $18.3 billion in defaulted debt held out of a 2005
settlement nears its June 22 deadline.  
 “Bonds are climbing on some buying from investors ahead of
the close of the debt swap,” said  Adrian Mayoral , an analyst at
brokerage Mayoral Bursatil in Buenos Aires. “They are also
getting some help from buying by the Anses.”  
 An Anses spokeswoman requested an e-mail seeking comment.
She did not immediately respond to the e-mailed request.  
 Argentina’s restructuring offer includes warrants linked to
economic growth, as well as dollar bonds due in 2033 and bonds
due in 2017 to pay past-due interest. The offer doesn’t include
past-due payments on the GDP warrants.  
 Argentine Finance Secretary  Hernan Lorenzino  said at a
press conference in Milan yesterday that he’s confident the swap
offer will be accepted by the holders of at least 60 percent of
defaulted notes. The deadline won’t be extended, he said.  
 Italy, Japan  
 Italy is home to up to $4 billion in defaulted bonds,
according to the Argentine government. Earlier this week,
Lorenzino traveled to Tokyo where he met with Japanese bankers
and government officials.  
 Creditors have turned in most of the remaining Japanese-law
bonds, bringing total participation to 99 percent, the Economy
Ministry said in a June 15 statement.  
 As of June 11, creditors tendered about 56 percent of the
outstanding bonds, ministry spokesman Sergio Poggi said on June
14.  
 President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  opened the debt
swap May 3, five years after her husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , offered creditors about 30 cents on the dollar, the
harshest restructuring terms since at least World War II,
according to  Arturo Porzecanski , an international finance
professor at American University in Washington.  
 Argentina defaulted on $95 billion in 2001 and a successful
restructuring will help the country regain access to
international credit markets. It will also lower borrowing costs
for provinces and companies that seek to sell debt.  
 The peso was little changed at 3.9257 per dollar, from
3.9258 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        