-- Argentina Wins Second Match at World Cup; Greece, Mexico Get Victories
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-17T22:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/argentina-wins-second-match-at-world-cup-greece-gets-first-ever-victory.html

          
          
             Argentina beat South Korea 4-1
yesterday to maintain its perfect start at this year’s soccer
World Cup, as Greece and Mexico picked up their first wins.  
 Gonzalo Higuain  scored three goals as Argentina moved atop
Group B with six points after its second straight win in South
Africa. Greece beat 10-man Nigeria 2-1 for its first-ever World
Cup victory and Mexico defeated France 2-0.  
 “Korea was never capable of controlling us,” Argentina
coach  Diego Maradona  told reporters in Johannesburg. “Of course
they scored, but Korea never dominated any part of the match.”  
 Argentina took the lead when a free kick bounced off Park
Chu Young’s shin into his own goal. Higuain made it 2-0 when he
headed a cross over diving goalkeeper Jung Sung Ryong.  
 South Korea got a goal back just before halftime when
Argentina defender  Martin Demichelis  failed to control the ball
on the edge of the penalty box and Lee Chung Young put a shot
past goalkeeper Sergio Romero.  
 Yeom Ki Hun had a chance to tie after 55 minutes but shot
into the side-netting, a miss that South Korea coach Huh Jung
Moo said was the “turning point.” Higuain then scored in the
76th and 80th minutes to complete his hat trick and seal the
victory.  
 Today’s matches start with Germany taking on Serbia in
Group D, followed by Group C matches between Slovenia and the
U.S., and England and Algeria.  
 Yesterday in Polokwane, Mexico’s Javier Hernandez and
 Cuauhtemoc Blanco  scored in the second half. Mexico and Uruguay
have four points and face each other in the final game of Group
A on June 22. A tie would send both through to the round of 16.  
 Final Games  
 France and host South Africa have one point and meet in
their final game. Both need to win and have Mexico and Uruguay
not tie in order to have a chance of advancing.  
 Mexico took the lead when Hernandez beat a France offside
trap, went around goalkeeper Hugo Lloris and slid the ball into
the empty goal. Blanco made it 2-0 with his penalty after  Eric Abidal  took down Pablo Barrera.  
 In Bloemfontein, Greece scored twice after Nigeria’s Sani
Kaita received a red card to gain its first World Cup win in
five games.  
 “I wish we’d showed a lot more character and attitude to
try and get at least a draw,” Nigeria captain  Joseph Yobo  said
in a televised interview. “It looks like that even if we win
the next one, we’re not going to qualify, so practically we are
out of the tournament.”  
 Dimitrios Salpingidis and Vasileios Torosidis had the goals
for Greece, which had not scored in losing its four previous
World Cup games. Greece ties South Korea for second in Group B
with three points, with Nigeria last after losing both of its
games.  
 ‘Good Moment’  
 “We deserved to win because we worked really hard,”
Greece’s  Georgios Samaras  said on the World Cup website. “This
is a good moment for us.”  
 Nigeria’s Kalu Uche scored with a free kick in the 15th
minute that passed players from both teams before bouncing by
goalkeeper  Alexandros Tzorvas .  
 Kaita was then shown a red card 18 minutes later for
kicking out at Torosidis during a stoppage in play. Salpingidis
tied the game a minute before halftime with a shot from about 20
yards that deflected off Lukman Haruna.  
 Torosidis put Greece ahead in the 71st minute when he
tapped in after goalkeeper  Vincent Enyeama  was unable to hold
Alexandros Tziolis’s shot.  
 Argentina plays Greece and Nigeria meets South Korea in the
final Group B games on June 22. The top two teams advance to the
round of 16.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        