-- Argentina Accelerating Trade Permits From Brazil, Importers Chamber Says
-- Eliana Raszewski
-- 2010-06-17T13:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/argentina-accelerating-trade-permits-from-brazil-importers-chamber-says.html

          
          
             Argentina is accelerating permits
for food imports from Brazil after companies said they would
conduct trade in local currencies instead of U.S. dollars, said
 Diego Perez Santisteban , head of the Chamber of Importers.  
 “One of the government’s goals was to reduce the outflow
of U.S. dollars,” Santisteban said in a telephone interview
from Buenos Aires. “The use of local currencies also makes
 trade  costs cheaper for companies from both countries.”  
 Brazil and Argentina began to encourage use of the peso and
the real for trade last year in a bid to cut the two nations’
dependence on dollars for commerce. The system was used for
about $1 billion worth of the transactions so far, or less than
3 percent of total trade, Santisteban said.  
 Importers last month said it was harder to bring goods into
Argentina after the government said it would examine purchases
abroad to study the “competitiveness” of the national market.
The possibility of restrictions prompted threats of retaliation
against Argentina from Brazil and the European Union, the
country’s biggest trade partners.  
 The bid to use local currencies may slow the flight of
dollars from the country, which has been blocked from tapping
international credit markets since 2001, when it defaulted on
$95 billion in debt. Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de
Kirchner’s government is tapping about $4.4 billion of the
country’s $49 billion in reserves to help pay debt due this
year.  
 Accumulating Reserves  
 “With Argentina blocked from accessing international
markets, the government needs dollars to accumulate reserves,”
said  Mauricio Claveri , an economist at Buenos Aires-based
research company Abeceb.com.  
 The press office for Interior Commerce Secretary  Guillermo Moreno  didn’t respond to messages left by Bloomberg News.  
 Import restrictions and an exchange rate policy that
favored local industry enabled Argentina to build up a record
trade surplus of $17 billion in 2009, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said in an April 15 interview.  
 Argentina had a $332 million trade deficit with Brazil in
May as imports rose 74 percent from a year earlier, the fastest
pace in five months, according to  Abeceb.com . The overall trade
surplus rose to $1.9 billion in April, led by soybean sales,
after falling to $311 million in March, the national statistics
institute reported.  
 Santisteban forecasts the trade surplus surpassed $1.6
billion in May, the second biggest since May last year, as
global trade recovered. The national statistics institute will
release May figures on June 22.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        