-- Argentina's Metrogas Seeks Bankruptcy Protection After 10-Year Rate Freeze
-- Rodrigo Orihuela
-- 2010-06-17T20:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/argentina-s-metrogas-seeks-bankruptcy-protection-after-10-year-rate-freeze.html

          
          
             Argentina’s biggest natural-gas
distributor, Metrogas SA, is seeking  bankruptcy  protection after
an 11-year government rate freeze  hurt  the company’s finances,
pushing it toward default. The stock fell to a nine-month low.  
 A new tariff system approved in April 2009 by the Argentine
presidency “has been under consideration by the Planning
Ministry for approximately 10 months,” Metrogas said today in a
filing with Argentina’s securities regulator in Buenos Aires.  
 The Argentine government will “oversee” the distributor
to guarantee services, the Planning Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement following the regulatory filing. The ministry denied
that a new tariff system had been negotiated.  
 The Argentine government froze utility rates and converted
them from dollars into pesos, which depreciated as much as 70
percent, following a sovereign debt default in December 2001.  
 Government oversight will last until  Metrogas’ debt  is
restructured and “completed satisfactorily,” the ministry
said.  
 Metrogas  fell 5.4 percent to 0.61 peso on the Buenos Aires
Stock Exchange. It touched 0.6 peso, its lowest since September
2009. The stock has fallen 31 percent this year, the  second-
largest decliner  on the 70-member IBG Index.  
 The New York Stock Exchange halted trading of the share,
saying later that Metrogas will be delisted.  
 Bigger Loss  
 Metrogas’ annual loss widened to 78.3 million pesos ($20
million) in 2009 from 13.6 million pesos the prior year.  
 BG Group Plc and Spain’s Repsol YPF SA are the two major
 stakeholders in Metrogas , through Consorcio Gas Argentino SA,
which owns 70 percent of the distributor,  according  to the
company’s website. BG shuttered its Buenos Aires office in 2009.  
 Another 20 percent of Metrogas’ shares are traded on stock
exchanges in New York and Buenos Aires, while the remaining 10
percent is owned by company employees, according to the website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net  or
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        