-- U.S., U.K., Security Group Question UN Regulations (Correct)
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-06-17T17:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/armorgroup-dyncorp-win-u-s-support-in-resisting-international-regulation.html

          
          
             (Corrects first paragraph to show that companies haven’t
expressed opposition to treaty and trade group is voicing
concerns.)  
 The U.S. and British governments are
joining the trade group representing security companies working
in war zones in voicing concerns about international regulations
they say would boost costs and dangers.  
 Brazil, Egypt and Indonesia are among nations pushing for a
United Nations treaty to set screening and training standards in
an effort to avoid a repetition of alleged abuses by war zone
guards working for Blackwater Worldwide Inc. and ArmorGroup,
owned by West Sussex, U.K.-based G4S Plc.  
 The companies also face calls from Democrats in the U.S.
Congress for a law to clarify what agencies should police the
industry and to create a Justice Department investigative unit.  
 “If companies need additional licenses, permits, personnel
vetting, they will be significantly slowed,” said Doug Brooks,
president of the Washington-based International Peace Operations
Association, which includes 20 security companies. “And in the
case of a Haiti earthquake or something requiring immediate
response and services, such delays directly cost lives.”  
 The proposed UN draft treaty is “not an appropriate
vehicle” for industry oversight, Pentagon spokeswoman Cheryl
Irwin said in an e-mail. The Defense Department employs more
than 23,000 armed guards in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
 The U.S. association of companies, whose members include
ArmorGroup and Falls Church, Virginia-based DynCorp
International Inc., is concerned that the UN treaty would “draw
too hard a line” on what contractors can do in a war zone and
potentially “undermine humanitarian missions everywhere,”
Brooks said.  
 Shares Rise  
 The prospect of tighter regulation didn’t prevent investors
from pushing G4S, the world’s largest security company, to a
high of 283.5 pence ($4.18) per share in London on March 11.
DynCorp’s share price surged 48 percent on April 12, to $17.41,
on word that it would be purchased by New York-based Cerberus
Capital Management LP, a deal that is pending. G4S closed
yesterday at 282.2 pence in London, up 0.53 percent, and DynCorp
closed at $17.37, up 0.52 percent, in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  
 Marco Troiano, a London-based analyst with Standard &
Poor’s Equity Research, said in an interview he wasn’t aware of
the draft treaty and hasn’t taken the proposed regulations into
account in his G4S recommendations.  
 Resistance from Britain and the U.S. makes the chances of
adoption “50-50,” said Jose del Prado, who sits on the panel
drafting the UN treaty. The draft accord will be submitted to
the Geneva-based Human Rights Council this year and then to the
UN General Assembly, consisting of all 192 member states, he
said.  
 Public Scrutiny  
 The security contractors are dealing with fallout from
incidents that heightened public scrutiny, including the 2007
deaths of 14 Iraqi civilians in a firefight involving guards
from Moyock, North Carolina-based Blackwater, now called Xe
Services LLC. Last year ArmorGroup guards protecting the U.S.
Embassy in Kabul were sent home after the State Department said
they engaged in hazing of subordinates.  
 “There is a big problem because this is a new industry
with no regulation at an international level,” said del Prado,
a UN human rights advocate from Spain. “There is no
accountability, and vetting procedures are not there. Even the
toy industry is regulated better.”  
 Gaps Exposed  
 The incidents in Iraq and Afghanistan exposed a lack of
monitoring of guard forces, jurisdictional gaps in U.S. and
international laws, and the need to specify military functions
that can’t be outsourced, according to del Prado.  
 Five former Blackwater guards won dismissal in a U.S. court
last year of manslaughter and weapons charges related to the
Baghdad incident. Xe and G4S, which has pledged to cooperate
with a probe of the hazing in Kabul, didn’t respond to requests
for comments on the UN or congressional initiatives. DynCorp
referred questions to the industry association.  
 The need for more personnel and gear such as body armor
will add to costs, said Brooks, without specifying how much.
Requirements to take “reports at the scene of fender-benders to
pay compensation to locals could set up firms for ambushes,
creating risks for employees and civilians alike,” he said.  
 Protecting embassies, military bases and humanitarian
missions are the major missions for guards. The industry grew to
$20 billion in annual revenue through contracts in Iraq and
Afghanistan, where companies are preparing for more work tied to
the allied offensive, according to the company association.  
 Spying, Prisoners  
 The UN draft treaty, which would bind nations that ratify
it, would specify military acts such as spying or taking
prisoners that can be carried out only by national forces,
create licensing standards and set guidelines for compensation
of victims and potential prosecutions by the International
Criminal Court. The U.S. hasn’t ratified the accord that set up
the court.  
 Britain’s Foreign Office said the UN treaty would be hard
to implement. “Investigations, obtaining evidence and
enforcement would all be likely to prove highly complex and
difficult,” the Foreign Office said.  
 The U.S. and the companies support a third initiative, by
Switzerland and the Geneva-based International Committee of the
Red Cross, to prepare a non-binding code of conduct.  
 Senate and House bills would apply U.S. law to guards who
commit a crime overseas while working for departments other than
the Pentagon. Ambiguity about jurisdiction over guards under
contract to the State Department would be eliminated, according
to Asher Hildebrand, an aide to Representative David Price, a
North Carolina Democrat spearheading legislation in the House.  
 Hildebrand said the measures are likely to win bipartisan
support.  
 Security companies support the “clarity” the legislation
will bring to oversight, so that “bad actors” can be held
accountable, Brooks said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        