-- Global Stocks Extend 8-Day Gain; Gold, Spanish Bonds Rise
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-06-17T21:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/asian-stocks-metals-drop-on-u-s-housing-data-yen-strengthens-on-spain.html

          
          
             Stocks rose, with the  MSCI World
Index  extending its longest advance in 11 months, as a late-day
rally in technology shares helped the U.S. market reverse an
early drop. The euro gained as a Spanish bond sale eased concern
the region’s debt crisis will worsen. Gold rallied.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 0.1 percent to
1,116.04 at 4 p.m. in New York, reclaiming its advance for the
year along with the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The MSCI
World, a gauge of equities in 24 developed markets, increased
0.2 percent for an eighth straight gain. The euro strengthened
0.6 percent to almost $1.24, while gold futures rose 1.5 percent
to $1,248.70 an ounce, approaching a record. Treasuries surged.  
 Apple Inc.  climbed to a record and paced the advance in
technology shares that helped the S&P 500 recover from a 0.8
percent drop spurred by a lower-than-estimated reading in the
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s factory index and an
unexpected jump in jobless claims. Spanish bonds rallied as the
nation sold $4.3 billion in debt, the maximum set for the
auction, bolstering optimism Europe’s crisis is contained.  
 “Although the initial reaction to the claims numbers and
the Philadelphia Fed number was a kneejerk negative, a little
bit more thoughtful reflection on the numbers led to a more
positive conclusion,” said Hugh Johnson, who oversees $1.85
billion as chairman of Albany, New York-based Johnson Illington.
“When investors had a chance to digest and assess the news, they
should have reached the conclusion that the economy continues to
expand, albeit at a slow pace.”  
 Apple Hits Record  
 Apple rallied 1.7 percent to a record price of $271.87. The
customer base for the iPhone may top 100 million users next
year, with demand for the soon-to-be-released iPhone 4 helping
to persuade more buyers to embrace the smartphone, Morgan
Stanley said.  First Solar Inc.  jumped 3.9 percent to lead
industrial shares higher after Credit Suisse Group AG advised
buying the stock.  
 The S&P 500 tumbled 14 percent from a 19-month high in
April through June 7 amid concern Europe’s debt crisis and the
worst oil spill in U.S. history will stifle the economic
recovery. The index has risen 6.2 percent since and may extend
its rebound to 12 percent, said Ralph Acampora, whose career as
a technical analyst began in 1966.  
 “The damage in price and the damage in psychology has set
us up on a very short-term basis for a good recovery,” Acampora
said. Technical analysts view pessimism as a sign that stocks
may rise, because it indicates investors have capacity to buy
shares after avoiding the market.  
 200-Day Moving Average  
 The S&P 500 today remained above its 200-day  average  for a
third day after sinking below it for about a month. Tomorrow’s
expiration of stock options, coupled with the S&P’s quarterly
index rebalancing on the same day, resulted “in massive
technical noise today,” said Peter Boockvar, equity strategist
at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  
 The late-day rally in stocks came after U.S. bond markets
largely closed. Treasuries rose, pushing two-year yields to as
low as 0.69 percent, after the increase in jobless claims and a
drop in consumer prices spurred bets the Federal Reserve will
keep interest rates low. The yield on the 10-year note fell 7
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.19 percent.  
 The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  slid to a 10-month low of 8, less than half the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Initial U.S.
jobless claims rose to 472,000 last week, indicating firings
remain elevated even as the economy recovers. The index of
leading indicators, a gauge of the outlook for growth, climbed
0.4 percent in May, according to the Conference Board. Consumer
prices decreased 0.2 percent in May, the government said.  
 ‘Somewhat Concerning’  
 “The economic numbers are still somewhat concerning,”
said  Brett Hryb , part of a group that manages $2.6 billion at
MFC Global Investment Management in Toronto. “We have a very
long-tailed recovery as opposed to a V-shaped bounce back. The
gain in Treasuries and gold fall into the flight to safety. Gold
is the net beneficiary every time the market is unsure.”  
 General Electric Co., through its finance arm, sold $850
million of bonds backed by credit-card payments, GE’s biggest
such sale in nine months, according to a person familiar with
the offering. The top-rated securities, maturing in about three
years, yield 75 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the terms
aren’t public.  
 European Stocks  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.2 percent, paring a 0.7
percent rally. Spain sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of
10-year and 30-year bonds at yields lower than the prevailing
market rates, attracting bids worth as much as 2.45 times the
securities on offer, assuaging concern that it would face
difficulty meeting bond repayments.  
 Spain’s gauge of 35 stocks increased 0.7 percent. Spanish
bonds rose, with the yield on the 10-year note falling from the
highest level in almost two years. The yield dropped 11 basis
points to 4.77 percent. The  difference  in yield, or spread,
between German and Spanish 10-year government bonds narrowed 10
basis points to 211 basis points.  
 Spain is trying to convince investors it can cut the euro-
region’s third-largest deficit, while propping up the country’s
savings banks and lifting the economy out of a two-year slump.
Spain, which faces 24.7 billion euros of maturing debt in July,
had seen the risk premium on its 10-year bonds rise to a decade
high on concern it may need to tap a European rescue fund.  
 Hayward Testifies  
 BP Plc, battling to contain the worst oil spill in U.S.
history, rallied 6.7 percent in London then lost 0.4 percent in
New York. The shares have tumbled more than 45 percent on both
exchanges since the April 20 explosion that triggered the spill.  
 The company’s Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward was
denounced by U.S. lawmakers today for stonewalling as he failed
to answer questions about the causes of the spill. BP scrapped
dividends and pledged asset sales to meet President  Barack Obama ’s demand for a $20 billion fund to help victims. The U.S.
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board will look for the
causes of the explosion, Chairman John Bresland said.  
 The euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.2389 and earlier topped
$1.24 for the first time in almost three weeks as Spain’s bond
sale bolstered confidence in the currency. The dollar weakened
against 13 of 16 major currencies, led by a 1.7 percent drop
versus the Swiss franc.  
 The Swiss franc approached an all-time high against the
euro after the central bank softened its stance on fighting
franc gains as deflation risks ease. The Swiss National Bank,
which has been buying foreign currencies since March 2009 to
counter the threat of deflation, said today that those risks
have “largely disappeared.”  
 Emerging Markets, Commodities  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.4 percent, climbing
for an eighth day in the longest stretch of gains in two months.
Benchmark indexes in Turkey, Indonesia, Egypt and Romania
climbed at least 0.9 percent.  
 Crude oil fell for the first time this week, slipping 1.1
percent to $76.79 a barrel. Copper futures for September
delivery slid 8.95 cents, or 3 percent, to $2.924 a pound on the
Comex in New York.  
 The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of commodities retreated
for the first time in nine days, losing 0.3 percent and snapping
its longest streak of gains in three years.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An electronic stock board outside a securities firm in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Mold, senior economist at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about the outlook for emerging economies. 
     Developing and emerging countries are likely to account for nearly 60 percent of global gross domestic product by 2030, the Paris-based group said yesterday in a report. (Source: Bloomberg)
     
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Lawrence Eagles, head of commodities research at JPMorgan Chase Co., speaks about the outlook for oil prices.
     Eagles talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
