-- Asia's Currencies Retreat, Led by Won, as Europe Concerns Bolster Dollar
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-06-17T09:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/asia-s-currencies-retreat-led-by-won-as-europe-concerns-bolster-dollar.html

          
          
             Malaysia’s ringgit and South Korea’s
won led declines in Asian currencies as concern Europe’s debt
crisis will worsen bolstered demand for dollars.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index slipped from a
two-week high and the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares fell for
the first time in six days. The European Commission yesterday
called on governments to take “ambitious” steps to rein in
budget deficits.  
 “Should the European debt crisis worsen, you will see a
flight to quality for the dollar and that will weigh on the
Asian currencies,” said  Yeo Chin Tiong , head of treasury at OSK
Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “It’s just that whenever
any crisis happens, everybody just parks in U.S. assets and all
others suffer as a result.”  
 The ringgit weakened 0.2 percent to 3.2660 per dollar as of
5:11 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The won slid 0.2 percent to 1,213.40 and the
Indonesian rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,153.  
 The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
used currencies excluding the yen, dipped 0.1 percent and the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.1 percent. They’ve lost 1.4
percent and 7.6 percent, respectively, this quarter following
gains of 1.3 percent and 3.9 percent in the previous three
months.  
 Policy Tightening  
 Currency swings are prompting regional governments to
introduce policies to slow capital flows. Bank Indonesia set a
one-month minimum holding period for investors in its bills
yesterday, while South Korean regulators cut limits on banks’
currency-derivative positions on June 13. India this week
proposed a capital gains tax on all stock trades and Pakistan
announced a similar measure on June 5.  
 Asian regulators need to avoid the “slippery slope”
toward capital controls, according to Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co.  
 “When investing in emerging markets, there is always the
fear that mild controls are a step down a slippery slope,”  Win Thin , a New York-based senior currency strategist at Brown
Brothers, wrote in a note yesterday. “These measures are not
particularly worrisome, but introducing or discussing such
measures at a time of great uncertainty and fear in global
markets may end up being more destabilizing than stabilizing.”  
 Export Outlook  
 A recovery in Asian exports may cool as governments in
countries including Germany, Italy and Spain rein in spending to
help narrow budget deficits. Spanish and Portuguese debt levels
may “snowball” in coming years and more budget cuts are needed,
according to a draft European Commission document obtained this
week by Bloomberg.  
 Singapore, Malaysia’s biggest overseas market, reported
today that growth in non-oil domestic exports slowed to 24
percent last month, from 29 percent in April. The city-state’s
shipments to the European Union grew at a slower pace last month,
climbing 5.7 percent from a year earlier compared with a 21.3
percent increase in April.  
 Taiwan’s dollar rose to a two-week high after Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest contract
maker of chips, raised this year’s forecast for industry demand.  
 The benchmark Taiex  index  of shares, in which Taiwan
Semiconductor has the largest weighting, gained for a fifth day
after the company on June 15 raised its growth forecast for
global chip sales to almost 30 percent, from 22 percent.  
 Electronics Demand  
 “This should prompt foreign funds to invest in Taiwan’s
stock market,” said  Yang Kung-yi , a foreign-exchange trader at
Shanghai Commercial & Savings Bank in Taipei. “Some of the
semiconductor companies say their profits are better.”  
 Taiwan’s dollar climbed 0.1 percent from June 15 to
NT$32.310 against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. The currency touched NT$32.20, the strongest level
since June 4. The island’s markets were shut yesterday for a
holiday.  
 Elsewhere, the Philippine peso rose 0.1 percent to 46.145
per dollar and the Thai baht was little changed at 32.42.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        