-- Asia Must Avoid `Slippery Slope' to Capital Controls, Brown Brothers Says
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-06-17T02:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/asia-must-avoid-slippery-slope-to-capital-controls-brown-brothers-says.html

          
          
             Asian regulators from Indonesia to
South Korea need to avoid the “slippery slope” toward capital
controls as they impose measures to reduce swings in their
currencies, according to Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  
 Bank Indonesia set a one-month minimum holding period for
investors in its bills yesterday, while South Korean regulators
cut limits on banks’ currency-derivative positions on June 13.
India this week proposed a capital gains tax on all stock trades
and Pakistan announced a similar measure on June 5. The Asian
Development Bank and the International Monetary Fund both
proposed in the past three months that developing nations
restrain investment flows.  
 “When investing in emerging markets, there is always the
fear that mild controls are a step down a slippery slope,”  Win Thin , a New York-based senior currency strategist at Brown
Brothers, wrote in a note yesterday. “These measures are not
particularly worrisome, but introducing or discussing such
measures at a time of great uncertainty and fear in global
markets may end up being more destabilizing than stabilizing.”  
 Indonesia’s rupiah and South Korea’s won were Asia’s top
two performers last year, rallying 16 percent and 8 percent
respectively against the greenback. This year, the won is the
region’s biggest loser, dropping 4.9 percent to 1,216.40 per
dollar. The rupiah has risen 2.4 percent this year to 9,167.  
 Currency Gain Forecast  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecasts the rupiah may gain 8
percent to 8,500 in 12 months, economists  Enoch Fung  and Pranjul
Bhandari wrote in a report today. Indonesia’s central bank will
raise its  benchmark interest rate  50 basis points to 7 percent
in the fourth quarter, they said.  
 The measures don’t signal “a shift of the current monetary
policy stance on growth and inflation,” according to the report.
“These measures are more focused on providing a more robust
framework for capital flows management.”  
 Bank Indonesia said yesterday it will start selling nine-
and 12-month bills, encouraging funds to keep their money in the
nation for longer periods. Overseas investors boosted holdings
of Indonesian debt by 38 percent this year to 149.3 trillion
rupiah ($16.3 billion), according to the finance ministry.  
 “The outstanding size of foreign holdings in  central bank
bills  is quite small,”  Edward Lee , regional head of rates
strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore, said yesterday.
He said bills make up just 3 percent of foreign holdings,
compared with 86 percent in equities and 11 percent in bonds.  
 Overseas investors bought $258 million more Indonesian
shares than they sold this month through yesterday, boosting net
purchases this year to $621.4 million.  
 “We view the developments positively,”  Lim Su Sian , a
Singapore-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, wrote
in a note yesterday. “The measures should ultimately help to
reduce volatility in the rupiah as intended without being
tantamount to ‘hard’ capital controls.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        