-- AT&T, Verizon Join Police to Fight FCC, Sprint on Airwaves Plan
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-06-17T04:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/at-t-verizon-police-coalition-fights-fcc-sprint-on-u-s-airwaves-auction.html

          
          
             AT&T Inc.  and  Verizon Wireless , the
two biggest U.S. mobile-phone carriers, have joined a grassroots
alliance of police and firefighters to oppose a government plan
that could award disputed airwaves to smaller competitors.  
 The phone companies want Congress to give the airwaves to
public-safety agencies for communications instead. That would
derail a Federal Communications Commission plan for an auction
and keep the spectrum out of the hands of potential bidders such
as  Sprint Nextel Corp.  and  Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile .  
 “This is all about AT&T and Verizon trying to keep their
spectrum advantage,” said  Harold Feld , legal director of Public
Knowledge, a Washington-based advocacy group, in an interview.  
 AT&T and Verizon were the biggest winners in a 2008
airwaves auction. The FCC may bar the two companies from bidding
in the name of providing consumers more choices, Feld said. A
new auction would raise as much as $4 billion, according to
testimony prepared for a congressional hearing today.  
 The dispute is also about how to improve emergency
communications, a debate underway since the 2001 terrorist
attacks. Police and firefighters responding in New York couldn’t
get messages through and sometimes couldn’t talk with each other
because their radios were on different frequencies.  
 AT&T and Verizon say the answer is for Congress to give
public-safety agencies a swath of airwaves known as the D-block
for a unified and expanded communications network. They will
make their case today at  the hearing  of the House Subcommittee
on Communications, Telecommunications and the Internet.  
 “We’re saying what public safety says -- this has been a
mess for far too long,” said  Jeffrey Nelson , a spokesman for
Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based Verizon Wireless.  
 Transmitters, Towers  
 The FCC wants to auction off the D-block to
telecommunications companies, with proceeds going toward the
$6.5 billion cost of equipment, such as transmitters and towers,
for a new public-safety network. An auction may fetch $3 billion
to $4 billion, according to testimony submitted by  Coleman Bazelon , a Washington-based economist with the Brattle Group.  
 The FCC says police and firefighters can use spectrum
already assigned to them day-to-day and claim priority use of
the D-block in an emergency.  
 Borrowing commercial airwaves is unrealistic, said  Rob
Davis , the chief of police in San Jose, California, and
president of the  Major Cities Chiefs Association .  
 Even in minor earthquakes in California, “everybody
scrambles to their cell phones to call Grandma, and our cell
systems go down,” Davis said in an interview. “The right way
is to grant that spectrum to public safety.”  
 Financial Support  
 The  Public Safety Alliance , a partnership of groups
representing police, fire and emergency medical coworkers, is
opposing the FCC’s approach in a $500,000 campaign using the
Internet, press releases and advertisements in Washington
newspapers, spokeswoman Courtney McCarron said in an interview.  
 The alliance benefits from indirect financial support by
Dallas-based AT&T; Verizon Wireless, owned by Verizon
Communications Inc. and Vodafone Group PLC; and equipment makers
 Motorola Inc. , Alcatel-Lucent SA and Harris Corp.  
 Those companies help underwrite the Daytona Beach, Florida-
based Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials -
International, or APCO, which in turn runs the partnership and
has McCarron as its spokeswoman.  
 “They have been supporters of our position,” said
McCarron, who is based in Alexandria, Virginia.  
 Nelson of Verizon Wireless and AT&T’s Washington-based
spokeswoman Margaret Boles said the companies support APCO
without contributing directly to the campaign against the FCC
plan.  
 Rising Demand  
 Mobile-phone companies are fighting for airwaves to satisfy
rising demand for Web services,  Jeffrey Silva , a Washington-
based analyst for Medley Global Advisors LLC, said in an
interview. AT&T faces network congestion as the popularity of
smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone tax its system.  
 T-Mobile supports the FCC’s plan, said  Tom Sugrue , vice
president for government affairs at T-Mobile USA, in an e-mailed
statement. Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas, may bid on
the airwaves if they are offered, said Larry Krevor, a vice
president for spectrum, in an interview.  
 A decision should be made soon because public-safety
equipment could be hoisted onto towers as carriers deploy new
technology called 4G,  James Barnett Jr. , chief of the FCC bureau
of public safety and homeland security, said in an interview.  
 “This is the time that we have to do it,” Barnett said.
“If we miss the 4G buildup, the price goes up and I think we
miss the chance.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     AT&T and Verizon have joined a grassroots alliance of police and firefighters to oppose a government plan that could award disputed airwaves to smaller competitors.
Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
