-- Thatcher a Million Times Better for Business Than Cameron, Hargreaves Says
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-06-17T06:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/thatcher-was-a-million-times-better-than-cameron-peter-hargreaves-says.html

          
          
             Britain’s former Prime Minister
 Margaret Thatcher  was a “million times” better for business
than her Conservative successor  David Cameron , according to
 Peter Hargreaves , co-founder of the country’s biggest retail
brokerage,  Hargreaves Lansdown Plc .  
 “The Conservatives, along with Labour, I don’t think
understand what it is like to run a business,” said Hargreaves,
63, who jointly founded the retail brokerage in a bedroom in the
south-western city of Bristol during Thatcher’s first
premiership in 1981. “I don’t think there is any politician out 
there really supporting entrepreneurs at the moment.”  
 Government regulation stunts business growth because it
favors employees over managers and Cameron lacks the will to
change that, Hargreaves said in an interview. Thatcher freed
businesses from government bureaucracy, he said.  
 Cameron’s Conservatives  promise  to reduce the “burden of
red tape” and to cut business taxation, according to the
party’s election manifesto this year. Hargreaves’s firm, started
with two employees and a typewriter, has grown to employ more
than 600 people and has a market value of 1.65 billion pounds
($2.43 billion,) after it introduced U.K. investment product
sales through mailshots and later the  Internet .  
 “I think the biggest problem at the moment is not
taxation, it’s regulation,” Hargreaves said. “If Cameron
really wanted to impress me, he would pass one law repealing all
the legislation passed by Labour over the last 10 years because
they have all made it difficult to do business.”  
 Regulation ‘Inhibitive’  
 Hargreaves, who is the U.K.’s 111th wealthiest person, with
a personal fortune of 570 million pounds according to the Sunday
Times Rich List, announced in April that he is stepping down as
chief executive officer. While he will be replaced in November
by  Ian Gorham , 38, the company’s chief operating officer,
Hargreaves will keep a role at the company as senior executive
director.  
 “Hargreaves’s comments are representative of what many
businesses feel,” said  Stephen Alambritis , a spokesman for the
 Federation of Small Business , which represents 215,000
entrepreneurs. “We have a very entrepreneurial culture, but
once companies are in business they find that regulation can be
inhibitive.”  
 Hargreaves, the son of a Lancashire baker, said his
company’s success stems from offering its customers the freedom
to choose how to invest.  
 “The key is not to overcomplicate things,” Hargreaves
said. “We aim to keep things simple. Our aim is to help the
clients help themselves, not to tell them what to think.”  
 Hargreaves Lansdown’s Vantage platform, a “fund
supermarket” which allows investors to buy directly over the
Internet, now contributes 69 percent of revenue.  
 ‘Very Big Bribe’  
 The company has reported an eightfold increase in profit
since 2006 and has more than doubled assets under management, in
contrast to bigger financial firms like  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and Northern Rock Plc, which have needed government
bailouts and posted losses since the onset of the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  
 Hargreaves is critical of another element of the
Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition’s plans, its desire to
double  capital gains tax  from the current 18 percent rate. With
an announcement possible in the June 22 emergency budget,
Hargreaves says investors will alter investment decisions to
avoid a higher levy.  
 “There is an old adage that the quickest way to drop your
tax take is to increase taxes,” Hargreaves said. “If capital
gains tax is going to be 50 percent, my contingent capital gains
tax is going to be 250 million pounds.  
 ‘‘That is a very big bribe to me to work out how to avoid
that,’’ he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        