-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Trade Near a One-Month High on Economic Outlook
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-06-18T15:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/australian-new-zealand-dollars-touch-one-month-highs-on-global-recovery.html

          
          
             The Australian and New Zealand
dollars traded near their highest levels in a month as concern
eased that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will derail global
economic growth.  
 The two currencies had their first back-to-back weekly
gains since April a day after European Union leaders agreed to
disclose how banks performed in stress tests, seeking to show
investors the financial system can withstand shocks.  
 “The fact that the Europeans are going to release stress
tests for their banks will help to calm investor concerns,”
said  Khoon Goh , senior economist in Wellington, New Zealand, at
ANZ National Bank Ltd., New Zealand’s biggest lender. “The
Australian dollar should perform in an environment where risk is
put back on the table.”  
 Australia’s currency traded at 86.94 U.S. cents at 11:29
a.m. in New York, compared with 86.86 cents yesterday. It
earlier reached 87.13 cents, the highest level since May 18. New
Zealand’s dollar fetched 70.52 U.S. cents, compared with 70.45,
and touched 70.71 cents, the strongest level since May 17.  
 The Aussie advanced 2.3 percent this week against the
greenback following last week’s 3.3 percent rally. New Zealand’s
currency rose 2.2 percent after a 2.9 percent gain.  
 New Zealand’s economy grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Statistics New Zealand report next week. There’s an 82 percent
chance Reserve Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  will increase interest
rates for a second meeting in July, according to a Credit Suisse
Group AG  index  based on swaps.  
 “Underlying inflationary pressures are expected to
increase,” Bollard said in a statement June 10 after increasing
the official cash rate from a record low to 2.75 percent.
“Given the current low level of the cash rate, it is therefore
appropriate to gradually remove policy stimulus.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        