-- Australia Utilities Scale Debt Wall as Economy Trumps MBIA Subprime Fall
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-06-18T05:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/australia-utilities-scale-debt-wall-as-economy-trumps-mbia-subprime-fall.html

          
          
             Bond prices show the pace of
Australia’s economic growth may help infrastructure and utility
companies to refinance $13 billion of debt without top credit
ratings they once bought from insurers such as MBIA Inc.  
 Envestra Ltd. , ElectraNet Ltd. and five more firms raised
$2.3 billion from bonds this year, up from $140 million in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brisbane Airport Corp.
has A$350 million ($304 million) of MBIA-backed notes due on
June 30, while SP AusNet has A$185 million of bonds insured by a
unit of Ambac Financial Group Inc. due in September.  
 The nation’s central bank has led Group of 20 policymakers
in increasing the benchmark cash rate six times since October on
surging Asian demand for commodities and a jobs boom that pushed
unemployment to around half that of the U.S. and Europe. The
extra yield investors demand to own Australian utility debt
instead of government bonds has fallen 52 basis points to 206
basis points this year while spreads for firms in the industry
widened globally, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  
 “Investors are buying into an economy that outperformed
the world through the financial crisis,” said  Brad Scott ,
director of debt capital markets at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney. “Many recognize Australia is a
far more attractive place to invest than previously given
credit.”  
 Ratings Stripped  
 Infrastructure and utility firms were Australia’s biggest
users of insurers to sell cheaper, longer-dated debt until MBIA
and Ambac were stripped of their top ratings in 2008 amid losses
on notes backed by subprime mortgages. Since then five straight
quarters of growth in the country’s A$1.2 trillion economy have
bolstered corporate profits, attracting investors willing to
accept lower credit rankings and greater risk.  
 Investors “show strong appetite for names out of the
region,”  Lori Pollicino , an executive director of debt capital
market private placements at JPMorgan Securities Inc. in New
York, said in an e-mailed response to questions. Australian
utility companies’ spreads will “modestly tighten throughout
the remainder of 2010.”  
 Between 2000 and 2006 Brisbane Airport paid spreads of
between 100 basis points and 130 basis points including fees on
five bond sales backed by insurers, or so-called monolines,
Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell  said in a telephone
interview. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 While new debt is “certainly going to cost more than it
did a few years ago, it’s come down from the very high margins
of late 2008 and early 2009” when the airport was told it would
have to pay as much as 600 basis points, Rothwell said.  
 Miami Visit  
 The owner of the nation’s third-busiest airport aims to pay
about 200 basis points on a sale by early 2011, according to
Rothwell, who was “pleasantly surprised” at U.S. interest in
Australian bonds when he visited Miami last year.  
 SP AusNet, which manages a A$6.3 billion electricity and
gas network and is  rated  A- by Standard & Poor’s, has sold bonds
denominated in Swiss francs, Hong Kong dollars and Australian
dollars since February. The company rose as much as 1.2 percent
in Sydney today before trading at 84 Australian cents as of 3:20
p.m., a 0.6 percent gain.  
 SP AusNet’s Ambac-insured notes yielded 45 basis points
more than the bank bill swap rate when they were issued in 2000,
according to Bloomberg data, which doesn’t show the insurer’s
fee. The company, based in Melbourne, priced A$300 million of
bonds to yield 160 basis points more than the swap rate in March.  
 Spreads Narrow  
 The spread narrowed to 150.7 basis points as of 3:22 p.m.
in Sydney, the lowest since June 2, according to Commonwealth
Bank of Australia prices.  
 As companies seek to improve investor relations now they’re
refinancing without monoline support, Australia’s economic
strength is proving to be a “positive factor” in negotiations,
SP AusNet Treasurer  Alastair Watson  said in an interview.  
 Airports, utilities and infrastructure-related issuers have
A$15 billion of debt due by the end of 2011, according to
Moody’s Investors Service, while S&P says utilities must
refinance a third of their outstanding debt next year.  
 S&P said in a March 5 report that it’s concerned about the
concentration of maturing debt, even though companies are
arranging refinancing well before their bonds and loans mature.  
 Investors demanded about 60 basis points of extra yield to
hold Australian corporate bonds rather than government debt in
June 2006, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index shows. That
spread widened to as much as 433 basis points in April 2009
before shrinking to 212 as of yesterday, the index shows.  
 Bond Returns  
 Australia is the world’s biggest exporter of iron ore and
coal, and Chinese demand helped the economy  expand  2.7 percent
in the first quarter of 2010 from a year earlier. Investors have
profited from Australian corporate bonds every year for at least
the past 13 years, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data, and the notes delivered a 4.18 percent return this year.  
 Adelaide Airport Ltd. bought back A$231.5 million of MBIA-
insured bonds in April and issued A$235 million of notes without
a third-party guarantee. The new bonds yield 255 basis points
more than the bank bill swap rate compared with 49 basis points
on the insured notes, excluding MBIA’s fee, Bloomberg data show.  
 United Energy Distribution Pty. Ltd. , which provides
electricity to more than 600,000 customers in the state of
Victoria, sold $435 million of four- and seven-year notes to U.S.
investors in April. The bonds were priced to yield 180 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to a
person familiar with the transaction.  
 The company, rated Baa2 by Moody’s, paid an 83 basis point
spread when it sold $260 million of Ambac-backed notes in 2003,
according to Bloomberg data which doesn’t show the fees.  
 “While these companies are paying more for their debt now
than before the crisis, they’re certainly not alone,” said
 Michael Bush , Melbourne-based head of credit research at
National Australia Bank Ltd. “The market’s so different to what
it was three years ago, and all borrowers are affected.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        