-- Reserve Bank to Raise Borrowing Costs Once More in 2010, Citigroup Says
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-06-17T04:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/australian-central-bank-to-raise-rates-once-more-in-2010-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             Australia’s central bank will raise
 borrowing costs  only one more time this year amid signs the
nation’s economic expansion won’t push the inflation rate above
Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s target range, Citigroup Inc. said.  
 Stevens will boost the benchmark overnight cash rate target
by a quarter percentage point to 4.75 percent in the fourth
quarter, Sydney-based senior economist  Paul Brennan  said today.
His previous prediction was for the benchmark rate to climb to
5.25 percent. The median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for a rate of 5 percent by the end of the year.  
 Economic growth was weaker than Citigroup expected in the
first quarter after business investment fell, prompting Brennan
to trim his forecast for gross domestic growth in 2010 to 3.25
percent from his previous prediction of 3.5 percent. Governor
Stevens this week signaled that his decision to return borrowing
costs to average levels has given policy makers “flexibility”
to pause and gauge any fallout from Europe’s debt crisis.  
 “The RBA now has scope to pause for longer than we had
previously thought likely,” Brennan said. “A period of steady
lending rates through to later this year should underpin some
improvement in confidence, benefiting both the consumer and
housing construction.”  
 Brennan said one risk to Citigroup’s forecast is that the
pause in interest rate increases may trigger a faster rebound in
consumer sentiment and growth, “leading to higher inflation and
renewed house price pressures.  
 “This in turn would force the RBA to tighten more
quickly,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        