-- Redskins' Haynesworth Takes $21 Million, Fails to Show Up at Training Camp
-- Nancy Kercheval
-- 2010-06-17T04:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/haynesworth-takes-21-million-fails-to-show-up-at-redskins-training-camp.html

          
          
             Albert Haynesworth  failed to show up
for a mandatory two-day training camp with the Washington
Redskins after accepting a $21 million bonus check on April 1.  
 “I was surprised he wasn’t here, because I thought he did
make that commitment once he took that check, that he wanted to
be a Washington Redskin and he wanted to do the best thing for
the Washington Redskins,” coach  Mike Shanahan  told reporters
yesterday.  
 The Redskins are looking into how to recoup the money after
giving Haynesworth the option to accept the bonus and commit to
the team or refuse it and leave,  the Washington Post reported ,
citing a National Football League official it didn’t identify.  
 Haynesworth asked the NFL Players Association if his bonus
was secure under the collective bargaining agreement before he
cut minicamp, the Post said.  
 Shanahan, a two-time Super Bowl winner at the Denver
Broncos who was hired in January to succeed  Jim Zorn , declined
to discuss the team’s plans for Haynesworth.  
 “Albert hasn’t been here. He hasn’t been a part of this
football team,” Shanahan said. “We’ve been doing very, very
well as a football team. Guys are working extremely hard. I’m
not going to get into specifics of what our game plan is”
regarding Haynesworth.  
 Haynesworth on Feb. 27, 2009, signed a contract worth $100
million over seven years, with $41 million guaranteed, the
Associated Press said. He’s already been paid $32 million, it
said. Haynesworth had 56 tackles and four sacks in 12 games last
season, his first at Washington after seven campaigns with the
Tennessee Titans.  
 Haynesworth balked at playing nose tackle after Shanahan
hired  Jim Haslett  to direct the defense.  
 “Albert has made a very selfish decision,” Washington
linebacker  London Fletcher  said in  comments on the Redskins’
website . “What he’s decided to do is make a decision based all
about him and it’s no different than his attitude and approach
to last year’s defense and wanting everything to revolve around
him.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        