-- Bahraini Wealth Fund Said to Sell $500 Million of Bonds to Refinance Debt
-- Haris Anwar
-- 2010-06-17T12:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bahraini-wealth-fund-said-to-sell-500-million-of-bonds-to-refinance-debt.html

          
          
             Bahrain Mumtalakat Holding Co., the
Persian Gulf country’s sovereign wealth fund, may sell $500
million of bonds as soon as next week in its first sale of debt
overseas, according to a person familiar with the plan.  
 The offering will depend on market conditions and proceeds
will be used to refinance short-term bank loans, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
The wealth fund is meeting with investors in Asia, the Middle
East and Europe.  
 The sale will be the first from Bahrain, the smallest oil
producer among Gulf Arab states, since the government raised
$1.25 billion from 10-year bonds in March. The government is
forecasting economic growth of 4 percent this year, up from 3.1
percent in 2009. The economy is benefiting from an increase in
oil prices to more than $77 a barrel.  
 Issuers from the Middle East raised $10.6 billion from debt
sales so far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
data. Dubai Electricity & Water Authority sold $1 billion bonds
in April, becoming Dubai’s first government-owned entity to tap
credit markets since the emirate’s debt crisis. Egypt that same
month raised $1.5 billion in the North African country’s first
overseas sale of dollar bonds in nine years.  
 Falling Yields  
 Mumtalakat, established in July 2006, holds stakes in more
than 35 companies and had assets of 3.4 billion dinars ($10
billion) as of Dec. 31, 2009, according to its website. Bahrain
has a long-term rating of A2 at Moody’s Investors Service and
A at Standard & Poor’s, the sixth-highest investment grade
rankings. The fund has about $1 billion of bank loans
outstanding.  
 The debt sale proceeds will “assist Mumtalakat to
consolidate and enhance its debt and financing strategy, which
previously employed shorter-term bank lines and regionally
syndicated loan facilities,” Standard & Poor’s said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  
 Bahrain’s low levels of debt give the Gulf state room to
adjust fiscal policy to help the economy through the global
crisis, Finance Minister  Sheikh Ahmed bin Mohammed  al-Khalifa
said in March. The oil-exporting Gulf state has said it expects
to post budget deficits in 2009 and 2010 as it maintains
spending to boost the economy.  
 Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Standard Chartered Plc will help set up the talks, according
to a person familiar with the matter on June 16.  
 Bahrain’s 5.5 percent bonds maturing in March 2020 were
sold to yield 200 basis points more than similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The yield
has declined 7 basis points this month to 5.583 percent as of
4:08 p.m. in Dubai, according to Bloomberg bond trader composite
prices.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        