-- Bailout Nation Will Thrive as Long as AIG Lives: Jonathan Weil
-- Jonathan Weil
-- 2010-06-17T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bailout-nation-will-thrive-as-long-as-aig-lives-jonathan-weil.html

          
          
             To believe  Christopher Dodd,  the
Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Banking
Committee, the end of government bailouts is near. In truth, the
financial-overhaul legislation now before Congress would do
little to arrest the bailouts already in progress.  
 When the U.S. government rescued  American International
Group Inc.  in 2008, it reasoned that a disorderly failure of the
financial-services giant would lead to an economic catastrophe.
What the Treasury and Federal Reserve said they needed was a way
to wind down systemically important institutions without sending
them into bankruptcy courts, to keep the companies from
triggering defaults on their obligations that would cascade
throughout the broader financial system.  
 Congressional leaders say their final  bill  will deliver the
resolution authority regulators have been seeking. “It will end
bailouts, ensuring that failing firms can be shut down without
relying on taxpayer bailouts or threatening the stability of our
economy,” Dodd  said  June 10 at the House-Senate conference
committee where the differences between the two chambers’ bills
are being negotiated.  
 It wouldn’t end AIG’s rescue, though. The reason AIG hasn’t
failed is that the Fed and the Treasury continue to stand behind
it. There’s no sign this will change anytime soon. Nor would the
legislation force the government to do otherwise.  
 Liquidation Plans  
 Under the  text  being considered by the conference
committee, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. would gain new
“orderly liquidation authority” over large bank-holding
companies and non-bank financial firms. The Treasury secretary,
with Fed and FDIC approval, could initiate the resolution
process upon concluding that the country faced a potential
crisis because a large financial institution was in danger of
defaulting or had done so already.  
 If the absence of such authority was what prevented the
government from letting AIG fail in 2008, you might think
regulators would be itching to test-drive these new procedures.
Yet there seems to be no eagerness at the Treasury or the Fed to
try this new tool on AIG once it becomes available. If the
government wants the markets to believe it would ever liquidate
a failing company of AIG’s  size  in the future, a good place to
start would be with AIG itself after this proposal is enacted.  
 As of May 27, AIG owed the Treasury and the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York $132.4 billion, according to a June 10  report 
by the Congressional Oversight Panel, led by Harvard Law School
professor  Elizabeth Warren . The government, which controls
almost 80 percent of AIG’s equity, hasn’t announced a timeline
for its exit strategy. The Treasury and Fed say they remain
hopeful AIG can make good on its promise to repay the money.  
 ‘Poisonous’ AIG Rescue  
 That’s a highly uncertain prospect, especially after the
recent collapse of AIG’s $35.5 billion deal to sell its main
Asian insurance operation to U.K.-based Prudential Plc. Warren’s
oversight panel  said  the Treasury “will likely remain a
significant shareholder in AIG through 2012,” and that
taxpayers “remain at risk for severe losses.” Meanwhile, as
the panel said, “the government’s actions in rescuing AIG
continue to have a poisonous effect on the marketplace.”  
 AIG still has an investment-grade credit  rating , solely
because of its U.S. backstop. And by paying AIG’s creditors in
full, the government has encouraged massive misallocations of
capital toward pretty much any company perceived to have a too-
big-to-fail guarantee.  
 Cutting Losses  
 It is conceivable that AIG might pay back taxpayers in full
if given a long enough timetable to sell off its parts. Yet the
longer the government refrains from putting the company through
the  wood-chipper , the more it lets moral hazard metastasize. It
shouldn’t hesitate to cut its losses if AIG’s prospects dim.  
 The end-of-bailouts rhetoric looks even more ridiculous
when you consider that both the House and Senate bills
explicitly exclude Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from the
Treasury’s new powers. They’ve drawn $145 billion already from
their unlimited credit line from the government. And it’s not
just Fannie and Freddie that are being continuously rescued when
the government absorbs their losses. It’s the whole U.S. banking
system.  
 Between them, the two government-chartered companies
guarantee more than $5 trillion of mortgages. Without those
guarantees, many of the underlying loans would bounce right back
onto the books of the companies that issued them, which would
cause those lenders’ balance sheets to balloon, leaving a lot of
them undercapitalized. The only way  Fannie  and  Freddie  can keep
making good on its commitments, at a time when delinquencies are
soaring, is to keep tapping the Treasury for more money.  
 The government has no choice, though. It can’t stop paying,
because that would tank the banking system and the housing
market. Unlike AIG, Fannie and Freddie bonds were sovereign debt
long before the government took its 80 percent stake in the
companies in 2008. The U.S. for decades had implicitly pledged
that it would stand behind their obligations, even though it
still keeps them off the federal balance sheet.  
 The real facts are sobering enough. The last thing we need
is for someone of Dodd’s stature to be misleading anyone into
thinking this proposal would accomplish something it’s expressly
designed not to do. An end to bailouts? We can only dream.  
 ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        