-- Banks Missed Chance to Cut Travel as `Employee Power' Returns
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-06-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/banks-missed-chance-to-cut-staff-travel-costs-as-employee-power-returns.html

          
          
             Banks that failed to slash travel
allowances at the height of the recession have missed the chance
now that job security in the industry has improved,  HSBC
Holdings Plc ’s U.K. travel chief said.  
 Institutions typically relied on employees to curb their
own travel costs during the slump rather than imposing permanent
restrictions on premium flights and top-end hotels, said Lee
Whiteing, travel and company car manager for HSBC’s 50,000 U.K.
staff. Bills are rising again now, he said.  
 “Employee power is back,” Whiteing said in an interview.
“Certainly in investment banking we’re in a situation where
it’s an employee’s market. Making them stay at cheaper
properties, fly economy when they could go business, is not
going to wash. They’re just going to leave us and go to another
institution.”  
 HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank by  market value , will post net
income of $12.29 billion this year, according to estimates
compiled by Bloomberg, more than double the $5.83 billion earned
by the London-based company in 2009. U.K. banks are expected to
generate a combined profit of $20 billion, the estimates show.  
 The number of airline passengers flying first and business
class jumped 7.6 percent in the first quarter, according to the
International Air Transport Association. The figure rose 1.1
percent in April even after a volcanic eruption in Iceland
grounded flights across Europe, compared with a 6.5 percent
decline in coach-class travel, IATA said on June 16.  
 Higher Pay  
 Average salaries at London’s financial-services companies
rose 9 percent in May from the previous month to 55,353 pounds
($82,000), according to a survey from recruitment consultant
 Morgan McKinley  published this week.  
 Job openings in the City, as the U.K. capital’s business
district is known, rose 82 percent from a year earlier to 5,733,
3 percent higher than in April.  
 The emphasis for banks is now on retaining and motivating
staff, Whiteing said after a presentation on travel trends at
the  Business Travel Market  conference in London this week.  
 HSBC hasn’t officially changed its travel policy in two
years, and caution over expenses claims exhibited by employees
during the credit crunch and recession is evaporating, he said.  
 “We had a brief window of opportunity last year, all of
us, to very significantly reduce our travel policy,” Whiteing
said. “People were happy to have a job and if you were to
reduce the policy, reduce the quality of the hotel, you would
have got away with it. We didn’t react quickly enough.”  
 Video Conferencing  
 Beyond banking, companies have pushed through deeper cuts
to travel costs, said Todd Kramer, vice president of corporate
sales at Cologne, Germany-based reservations specialist  HRS Ltd.   
 The average length of a hotel stay has fallen from 2.3 days
in 2009 to 1.8 days this year as more companies opt for video
conferencing or day trips without overnight accommodation, while
the standard of room has also declined, the executive said.  
 “Investment banking is an exception to the rule,” Kramer
said in an interview yesterday. “From a corporate perspective,
cost-saving is still a priority and I see that continuing. It’s
not as if they’re asking staff to stay at a campsite.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The HSBC company logo sits outside the bank in London. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 7 (Bloomberg) -- Giovanni Bisignani, chief executive officer of the International Air Transport Association, talks about the airline industry's return to profit in 2010 after two years of losses. 
     Bisignani speaks from the IATA annual meeting in Berlin on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse" with Andrea Catherwood. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
