-- BofA, JPMorgan Debt Sales Show Contagion is Ebbing
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-06-18T16:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bank-of-america-jpmorgan-debt-sales-show-contagion-ebbing-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and  HSBC Holdings Plc  raised $7.65 billion in the
bond market as investors grow more confident Europe’s debt
crisis will be contained, averting another credit freeze for
lenders.  
 Bank of America’s $3 billion offering was its first
benchmark issue of dollar-denominated 10-year notes in a year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. New York-based JPMorgan
boosted its sale by 25 percent to $1.25 billion as relative
yields on U.S. bank debt fell for a fourth day, the longest
streak since March, while HSBC raised $3.4 billion in the
biggest global issue of undated dollar notes since October 2008.  
 The banks’ offerings come as Spain sold 3.5 billion euros
($4.3 billion) of bonds yesterday and announced a plan today to
issue new 10-year notes via banks, easing concern the nation
will struggle to finance looming debt maturities. Even as
potential regulations loom, U.S. banks are taking advantage of
“very attractive financing rates and a receptive marketplace,”
said Wells Fargo Funds Management’s  James Kochan .  
 “There’s a lot less fear among investors than was true a
week ago or a month ago,” said Kochan, who helps oversee $179
billion as chief fixed-income strategist for the firm in
Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. “Things are calming down a bit in
world markets.”  
 Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, issued 1 billion
euros of so-called lower Tier 2 bonds that were priced to yield
210 basis points, or 2.1 percentage points, over swaps,
according to a banker involved in the deal.  Credit Suisse Group
AG  added 550 million euros to its existing 4.75 percent bonds
due August 2019, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
additional notes yield 180 basis points more than similar-
maturity German debt.  
 HSBC Sale  
 The 5.625 percent, 10-year issue from Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America priced to yield 248 basis points
more than Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. A benchmark offering
is typically at least $500 million. JPMorgan’s 3.4 percent,
five-year notes pay a spread of 145 basis points.  
 HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, sold the perpetual securities
that are callable after 5.5 years with a coupon of 8 percent
today, at the lower end of the marketing range of 8 percent to
8.125 percent, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.
The issue was the largest of its type since Credit Suisse sold
$3.5 billion of 11 percent notes in October 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Ally Bank  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds instead of government debt fell 1
basis point to 197 basis points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index shows. Yields averaged 4.068
percent.  
 GMAC Inc.’s Ally Bank boosted the size of its offering of
bonds backed by auto loans to $1.2 billion from $792.3 million,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The largest
top-rated portion, a $448 million slice maturing in about 2.2
years, will yield 25 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate, said the person, who declined to be identified because the
terms aren’t public.  
 Benchmark indexes of corporate credit risk in the U.S. and
Europe fell. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index
Series 14, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 3.3
basis points to a mid-price of 110.25 basis points as of 12:06
p.m. in New York, the lowest since May 31, according to Markit
Group Ltd. In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings decreased 4.7 basis
points to 117.4, Markit prices show, the lowest since May 18.  
 Bondholder Protection  
 The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 Bank of America and JPMorgan’s offerings led $7.35 billion
of U.S. corporate bond issuance, the busiest day since April 21,
when $12.3 billion was sold, Bloomberg data show. That tally of
straight bond sales doesn’t include HSBC’s perpetual notes
issue. The offerings from the two largest U.S. banks by assets
and Europe’s No. 1 lender follow a $750 million sale by Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Lincoln National Corp. on June 15 and a $1
billion offering June 16 from Prudential Financial Inc. of
Newark, New Jersey.  
 ‘Positive Tone’  
 “Both JPMorgan and Bank of America are coming on the back
of a couple good days of a positive tone in the market,” said
 Brian Machan , a money manager at Aviva Investors North America
in Des Moines, Iowa. “Seeing Prudential do well and Lincoln
National come earlier this week set the precedent.”  
 Spreads on financial company bonds fell to 277 basis
points, the lowest in two weeks, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporates, Banks index. Relative yields
reached 286 basis points on June 11, the highest since October.  
 Banks are making the most of investor demand before
regulatory changes that could reduce profitability, said  Scott MacDonald , head of credit and economics research at Aladdin
Capital Holdings LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, which oversees
$12.5 billion.  
 Congress is debating sweeping changes to financial
regulations that may hamper bank profits after the collapse of
the housing market caused the worst recession since the 1930s
and the loss of more than 8 million U.S. jobs.  
 ‘Floodgates Have Opened’  
 “The floodgates have opened and banks are taking
advantage,” MacDonald said. “From a strategic standpoint,
they’d rather come in ahead of the curve than play catch up.”  
 Spain sold its debt at an average yield of 4.864 percent,
less than the 5.04 percent its 10-year bonds traded at yesterday
before the sale. Demand was 1.89 times the amount on offer. It
also sold 479.2 million euros of 30-year debt at 5.908 percent,
and the  bid -to-cover ratio was 2.45, higher than the 1.38 at the
previous sale on March 18.  
 Spain’s finance ministry said today the government will
sell bonds in the third quarter through a group of banks,
without naming the managers of the issue. It also announced
auctions of debt with maturities ranging from 2015 to 2041.  
 “The strong demand for Spanish bonds should help restore
confidence,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , fixed income strategist at
Societe Generale in Paris. “The good demand was only possible
after considerable cheapening of Spanish bonds over the past
days.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of America corporate headquarters in downtown Charlotte. Photographer: Nell Redmond/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
