-- Baosteel Accepts 23% Iron Ore Price Gain for July Quarter, UC361.com Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-17T02:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/baosteel-accepts-23-iron-ore-price-gain-for-july-quarter-uc361-com-says.html

          
          
             Baosteel Group Corp. , China’s
second-biggest steelmaker, agreed to accept a 23 percent
increase in iron ore prices from  Rio Tinto Group  and BHP
Billiton Ltd., said research company UC361.com.  
 The steelmaker will pay about $147 a metric ton, excluding
freight charges, for July quarter contracts, Hu Kai, an analyst
at UC361.com., said by phone from Shanghai today. The increase
followed agreements by Japanese mills, he said.  
 Steelmakers in China, the biggest buyer of iron ore, have
resisted efforts by miners to raise contract prices after steel
prices dropped and the European debt crisis roiled markets, the
China Iron & Steel Association said on June 10. Brazil’s Vale SA,
the biggest supplier of iron ore, won a 90 percent price
increase for April quarter contracts.  
 Chen Ying , vice president of Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., the
listed unit of Baosteel, couldn’t immediately be reached on her
mobile phone. Rio and BHP are the world’s second and third-
largest exporters of iron ore, and ship the steelmaking
ingredient from their mines in Australia.  
 Vale this month said some Chinese steelmakers may default
on contracts and seek to buy iron ore on the spot market as
prices fell. Spot prices for iron ore arriving at Chinese ports
have dropped 23 percent to $143.10 a ton yesterday from $186.50
on April 21, according to  The Steel Index .  
 “Baosteel would not default on quarterly contracts,” Hu
said.  
 BHP spokeswoman  Fiona Martin  and Rio spokesman  Gervase Greene  declined to comment.  
 -- Xiao Yu , with assistance from  Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne.
Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Andrew Hobbs .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News Staff of this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        