-- Baoshan Steel, Chinese Steelmakers Drop After Shenyin & Wanguo Downgrade
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-17T02:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/baoshan-steel-chinese-steelmakers-drop-after-shenyin-wanguo-downgrade.html

          
          
             Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.  led a
decline among Chinese steelmakers after Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co. downgraded the industry on the prospect of
narrowing profit margins and difficult iron ore negotiations.  
 Baoshan Steel, the listed unit of China’s second-biggest
steelmaker, dropped 0.5 percent to 6.10 yuan as of 10:05 a.m. in
Shanghai while Hebei Iron & Steel Co., the listed unit of the
biggest steelmaker, fell 0.7 percent to 4.04 yuan in Shenzhen.
The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  added 0.5 percent.  
 China’s steelmaking industry was lowered to “neutral”
from “overweight” by Shenyin & Wanguo Securities analyst  Zhao Xiange . Major steelmakers will have “slim” profit margins in
the third quarter and the outlook for iron ore negotiations
isn’t optimistic, Zhao said in a report today.  
 Baoshan Steel on June 4 said it cut prices for the first
time in eight months.  Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Co ., Japan’s
largest electric-furnace mill, lowered prices by as much as 12
percent for July contracts, the first reduction in six months,
the company said on June 14.  
 The Chinese government has raised banks’ reserve
requirement three times this year to slow down investment and
raised down payments and mortgage rates for purchases of
multiple homes to rein in housing prices.  
 “There’s little possibility that the government will
greatly relax macro and property policies so the constraint on
steel prices hasn’t been removed,” Zhao said in the report.  
 Chinese steelmakers are also resisting efforts by Vale SA,
Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd. to raise contract prices,
the China Iron & Steel Association said last week. Vale, BHP and
Rio, the biggest iron ore exporters, may demand a 30 percent
price increase for the July quarter.  
 Maanshan Iron & Steel Co.  slid 0.9 percent to 3.43 yuan
while Laiwu Steel Corp. lost 1.2 percent to 8.01 yuan.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editor:  Allen Wan   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        