-- Beach Property Rights Limited by U.S. Supreme Court
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-17T15:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/beachfront-property-rights-limited-by-u-s-supreme-court-in-erosion-case.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Supreme Court , in a defeat
for Florida beachfront property owners, upheld a state program
that fights erosion by adding sand along the shoreline and
creating strips of public beach.  
 The  ruling  today highlighted divisions over privacy rights
even as the justices voted 8-0 to reject the landowners’ claim
that the program unconstitutionally deprives them of their
private beaches.  
 The justices split in their reasoning, hinting at future
clashes over the scope of the constitutional protection against
the taking of private property without compensation. Four
justices said that courts, like other government officials,
violate that clause when they extinguish what previously had
been an established property right.  
 “It would be absurd to allow a state to do by judicial
decree what the takings clause forbids it to do by legislative
fiat,” Justice  Antonin Scalia  wrote for himself, Chief Justice
 John Roberts  and Justices  Samuel Alito  and  Clarence Thomas .  
 Four other justices --  Anthony Kennedy ,  Sonia Sotomayor ,
 Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Stephen Breyer  -- said the high court
didn’t need to reach that question to resolve the Florida case.
Kennedy and Sotomayor suggested they didn’t read the
Constitution to prohibit so-called judicial takings.  
 “It is unclear whether the takings clause was understood,
as a historical matter, to apply to judicial decisions,”
Kennedy wrote for the pair.  
 Justice  John Paul Stevens , who owns oceanfront property in
Florida, didn’t take part in the ruling.  
 Florida Law  
 Under Florida law, oceanfront property owners traditionally
own the beach up to the mean high-water mark, while the
submerged land beyond that is state property.  
 In ruling against the landowners, the Florida Supreme Court
said for the first time that beachfront property owners don’t
necessarily have the right to be in direct contact with the
water.  
 Scalia said that ruling didn’t eliminate any settled right
under Florida law.  
 “The takings clause only protects property rights as they
are established under state law, not as they might have been
established or ought to have been established,” he wrote in
section of his opinion joined by all the participating justices.  
 During arguments in December, several justices said they
worried that landowners might find their once-private beaches
filled with food vendors, amusement parks, portable toilets and
raucous college students holding spring break parties.  
 Other justices pointed to protections in Florida law that
give landowners a right of access to the water and bar permanent
structures on the new strips. The law also guarantees that
affected property won’t be reduced in size by erosion.  
 The case is Stop the Beach Renourishment v. Florida
Department of Environmental Protection, 08-1151.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
