-- Boeing 787 Withstands First Lightning Strike as Tests Advance
-- Susanna Ray
-- 2010-06-17T21:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/boeing-787-withstands-first-lightning-strike-as-tests-reach-halfway-point.html

          
          
             Boeing Co. ’s new composite-plastic
787 Dreamliner survived its first lightning strike with no
damage as the plane approaches the halfway point in flight
testing, program manager  Scott Fancher  said.  
 The jet was flying last month above Puget Sound, near
Seattle’s Boeing Field, when it was hit unexpectedly by a
lightning bolt during a rare thunderstorm in the area, Fancher
said yesterday in a telephone interview. The aircraft’s systems,
fuselage and wings all appeared to be unscathed, he said.  
 “Post-flight inspections revealed absolutely no damage,”
said Fancher, who took over the Dreamliner testing program in
December 2008. “I walked around the airplane an hour after it
landed and you couldn’t tell a thing had happened.”  
 Engineers are still studying how lightning affects the 787,
the first jetliner to be built mostly from composite materials
instead of traditional aluminum. The Dreamliner is more
dependent on electricity for controls and other systems, with
power levels five times higher than on  Boeing ’s 767.  
 Scheduled lightning-strike simulations and tests, mostly on
the ground, are planned later this year as Chicago-based  Boeing 
completes the U.S. certification for the plane to carry
passengers, Fancher said.  
 ‘Best Thing’  
 “This was not on the test program, but it was great that
it happened,” said  Hans Weber , president of San Diego-based
aviation consulting firm Tecop International Inc. “Any time you
want to demonstrate an airplane can withstand lightning, the
best thing is to show that it actually did so.”  
 The average jetliner gets struck by lightning once a year,
said Weber, who has advised the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration.  
 Lightning poses a threat in flight because it can damage a
plane’s structure or internal controls. In 1998, a  US Airways
Group Inc.  Fokker F-28 had to make an emergency landing after a
strike caused electrical arcing that melted holes in the plane’s
hydraulic system. The National Transportation Safety Board
concluded the plane needed better lightning protection.  
 The Dreamliner struck by lightning last month was the first
of five 787s in the flight-test program. The sixth and final jet
will fly next month, Fancher said.  
 Testing Status  
 Crews have finished 40 percent of the so-called test points
needed for FAA approval during more than 1,000 hours of flying
since the plane’s maiden flight in December, Fancher said. The
first delivery, to Japan’s  All Nippon Airways Co. , will come
“several weeks” after the FAA acts and is on target for year-
end, he said.  
 The 787 is more than two years behind schedule amid
Boeing’s struggles with new materials, parts shortages, redesign
work and a new manufacturing process that relies more on
suppliers. The plane’s 860 orders valued at $148 billion have
made the Dreamliner Boeing’s best-selling new model.  
 Boeing rose 23 cents to $67.26 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The  shares  have gained 24 percent
this year.  
 The first 787 with  General Electric Co. ’s GEnx engines made
its debut flight yesterday, staying aloft for 3 hours and 48
minutes above Washington state, home to the planemaker’s
commercial manufacturing hub. The first four test jets are
equipped with engines from  Rolls-Royce Group Plc .  
 New Technology  
 Boeing has promised that the 787 will be 20 percent more
fuel-efficient than comparable jets, thanks to the lighter-
weight carbon-fiber construction of the fuselage and wings, new
engines and the greater use of electricity for power.  
 Engineers are starting to collect performance data from the
test flights and will release details “fairly soon,” after
independent reviews verify the analysis, Fancher said.  
 “We have found almost no areas where the airplane has
performed any different than we expected,” said Fancher, who
led four major military flight-test programs for Boeing before
taking on the Dreamliner. “It’s meeting our modeling
predictions very accurately.”  
 Boeing test pilots, who are now flying under FAA
supervision, have taken the 787 as high as 43,000 feet (13,106
meters) and traveled as fast as Mach 0.977 during a dive, or
almost the speed of sound, Fancher said.  
 The Dreamliner may make its public debut next month, at the
Farnborough air show in England, provided the tests are going
well enough that a plane can be spared, Fancher said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Boston at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Boeing Co. 787- ZA004 Dreamliner is seen stationed for altitude tests at the Colorado Springs Airport, Colorado. Photographer: Jeff Newton/Boeing Co. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Boeing 787 Withstands First Lightning Strike  
                       
                         
                           Tom Goertel/Boeing via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Scott Fancher, head of the Beoing 787 program, says the jet is on target to be delivered to the first client, All Noppon Airways. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Scott Fancher, head of the Beoing 787 program, says the jet is on target to be delivered to the first client, All Noppon Airways. Photographer: Tom Goertel/Boeing via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The first General Electric GEnx engine operates on a Boeing Co. 787 Dreamliner on the tarmac in Everett, Washington. Photographer: Alan Marts/Boeing Co. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
