-- BP Atlantis Whistleblower Drops Suit Against U.S.
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-06-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bp-atlantis-whistleblower-drops-suit-against-u-s-to-shut-platform-in-gulf.html

          
          
             A lawsuit seeking to force U.S.
regulators to temporarily shut  BP Plc ’s second-largest oil
platform in the Gulf of Mexico was dropped at the request of the
whistleblower who lodged the complaint, court records show.  
 Kenneth Abbott, a former contract employee in charge of the
BP Atlantis platform’s engineering documentation database,
claimed the company lacks key safety and engineering approvals
on specifications used to build it. Atlantis produces 120,000
barrels of oil and 170 million cubic feet of gas daily,
according to a BP court filing.  
 “We were actually required to dismiss the case once BP
intervened,” said Kate Fried, a spokeswoman for  Food & Water
Watch , an environmental group that supported Abbott’s lawsuit.  
 The  suit  criticized the U.S. Minerals Management Service,
which oversees offshore drilling, for failing to act on Abbott’s
concerns about the platform’s documentation until February, when
19 Congressional representatives asked the agency to investigate
the allegations.  
 The whistleblower lawsuit will be refiled shortly, naming
BP as a defendant, Fried said yesterday in a phone interview.
“I have no immediate timetable for that other than to say it
will be soon.”  
 London-based BP has said its Atlantis platform, located
about 100 miles (161 kilometers) south of the undersea gusher
where the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig sank, is safe and is in
compliance with federal regulations.  
 Allegations ‘Unsupportable’  
 “The plaintiff’s allegations are factually and legally
unsupportable,” Otway Denny, BP’s lawyer, said in the company’s
June 14 motion to intervene in the Atlantis action. He said
Abbott’s information “is critically incomplete and it has been
grossly misinterpreted by plaintiffs and their purported expert
witness.”  
 Toby Odone , a BP spokesman, declined to comment on the
dismissal of the lawsuit.  
 “We said in a release a month ago that there was nothing
to the allegations,” he said.  
 Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar , who is a defendant in
Abbott’s lawsuit along with the Minerals Management Service and
its director, said in a June 11 court filing that federal
regulators are about 10 percent done with an “exhaustive
investigation” into Atlantis’s documentation. He said the probe
would be finished within three months and submitted to Congress.  
 The case is Abbott v. Salazar, 4:10-cv-01759, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP's Atlantis oil and gas platform located in the Gulf of Mexico. Photographer: Marc Morrisson/BP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 26 (Bloomberg) -- Daniel Riesel, principal at Sive Paget & Riesel PC, talks with Bloomberg’s Betty Liu and Adam Johnson about the potential costs faced by BP Plc resulting from the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Riesel also discusses BP's efforts to contain the leaking oil, the potential lawsuits facing the company and the outlook for its market value. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
