-- BP Hires Army of Washington Insiders to Help Manage Outrage Over Oil Spill
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-06-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bp-hires-army-of-washington-insiders-to-help-manage-outrage-over-oil-spill.html

          
          
                  June 17 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- President  Barack Obama 
used his first Oval Office address on June 15 to order  BP Plc  to
set aside “whatever resources are required” to compensate
workers and business owners harmed by the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill.  
 Yesterday, at the White House for a private tongue-lashing,
executives of the London-based company agreed to do just that,
putting $20 billion in escrow and canceling payment of a
 dividend  to shareholders. Now, Congress is preparing to go on
the attack, with Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  set to
face a verbal drubbing today from a House panel over charges
that his company cut corners in pursuit of  profit .  
 BP is maintaining a careful public equilibrium while oil
continues to spill into the Gulf, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its June 21 issue. Executives haven’t gone into hiding, nor
have they been defensive as more and more demands are made on
the company’s purse.  
 Still, they aren’t taking the political piling-on lightly.
Coordinating the approach is a crisis-management team, assembled
over the last two months, of high-priced Washington insiders.
Orchestrating the response is the  Brunswick Group , whose
Washington managing partner,  Hilary Rosen , has connections
throughout the city as the former head of the  Recording Industry
Association of America  and from  previous jobs  that include
working for Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat.  
 Massaging the Press  
 To help massage the press, Brunswick has retained  John Feehery , who served as an aide to former House Speaker  Dennis Hastert . Other recent hires include  Alex Castellanos , an adviser
to Republican presidential campaigns, who comes aboard with his
own media and advertising firm,  Purple Strategies .  
 WilmerHale , a law and public policy firm populated by top
officials from President  Bill Clinton ’s administration, is
helping contend with multiple legal issues and investigations.
And to help  BP  fight the war against viral innuendo,  Ogilvy
Public Relations Worldwide  is advising on digital media such as
Facebook and Twitter.  
 Brunswick, Ogilvy, Rosen, Feehery, and Castellanos all
declined to comment. Officials at WilmerHale didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  
 The experts talk daily to plot strategy and dissect the
day’s events. In prepping Hayward for his hearing, says one
adviser, the basic message was: Don’t say anything you don’t
know to be true.  
 White House Meeting  
 At yesterday’s White House meeting, BP officials were
accompanied by WilmerHale partner  Jamie Gorelick , a former
deputy attorney general under Clinton, and  Michele Davis , a
Brunswick partner who was former Treasury Secretary  Henry M. Paulson Jr .’s spokeswoman.  
 Senator  Jeff Sessions , an Alabama Republican whose state’s
coastline is affected by the spill, said none of this counsel is
doing much good.  
 “I don’t think their repeated statements that they are
moving to efficiently compensate people who have suffered
damages and to protect the beaches and estuaries has been
perceived as very credible,” Sessions said.  
 BP  is getting much the same reception all over town.  
 “The issues of their own credibility have damaged them so
much” that things they’re saying “are just not remotely
resonating with people,” said  Jack Quinn , a former White House
counsel under Clinton who founded Quinn Gillespie & Associates,
a lobbying firm. Quinn isn’t doing any BP work.  
 Market Reaction  
 BP’s  American depositary receipts  rose 45 cents to $31.85
in New York trading yesterday. They have  dropped 47 percent 
since April 20, when an explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig killed 11 workers and triggered the spill.  
 Fitch Ratings cut BP’s credit rating six notches on June
15 to two levels above junk on concern over the potential cost
of cleaning up the spill and meeting future liabilities.
Standard & Poor’s downgraded BP by one level last week.  
 Even before the spill and resulting fallout, BP had some of
Washington’s top fixers on retainer, including  Ken Duberstein , a
former chief of staff to President  Ronald Reagan , and  Tony Podesta , brother of  John Podesta , who ran Obama’s transition
team.  
 All this talent is pricey: BP paid Duberstein $400,000 in
2009 and $100,000 so far this year, according to lobbying
reports. Superlawyers such as WilmerHale’s Gorelick likely bill
between $900 and $1,100 an hour, said law firm consultant  Peter Zeughauser .  
 Television Ads  
 There is a danger that the BP public-relations effort,
highlighted by  television ads  that promise the company “will
make this right,” may make matters worse. Obama pilloried the
company in a June 4 speech for running what he called a
$50 million image campaign while the leak goes unplugged.  
 A push to use Twitter isn’t catching on, either. While
posts by Hayward and other executives at  @BP_America  have almost
15,000 subscribers, that feed is dwarfed by tweets mocking the
company at  @BPGlobalPR , which has more than 167,000 followers.  
 One recent entry: “Our credit rating has been downgraded
to BBB. We’ll assume that means ‘Big Bountiful Bonuses.’”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP Plc chief executive officer Tony Hayward leaves after a meeting with U.S. President Barack Obama at the White House. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee from Washington about President Barack Obama’s response to the oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico, and the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling.
     Obama said BP Plc's will put $20 billion over four years into an oil spill compensation fund that will be independently administered by lawyer Kenneth Feinberg. The fund won’t cap BP’s liability for cleanup costs and economic damage, Obama said after he and some of his top advisers met with BP executives at the White House, and it won’t supersede the rights of individuals or states to sue the company. The company also will contribute $100 million to a fund to help support unemployed oil rig workers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
