-- BP Keeps Arts Sponsorship as Pressure Grows for Damages
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-06-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bp-keeps-arts-sponsorship-as-pressure-grows-for-spill-damages.html

          
          
             BP Plc , which has shed  45 percent  of
its market value after causing the U.S.’s  worst-ever oil spill ,
said it will keep sponsoring the British Museum, the Royal Opera
House, Tate Britain and the National Portrait Gallery in London.  
 “These are longstanding partnerships that we have with
major cultural institutions in the U.K.,” BP spokesman  David Nicholas  said in a telephone interview yesterday. “They’re
completely unchanged, as far as I’m concerned.”  
 Nicholas spoke as the British Museum outlined its next BP-
backed show: “ Journey Through the Afterlife: Ancient Egyptian
Book of the Dead ” (November 2010 - March 2011). At a media
briefing, the museum put on display a statuette of the god
Osiris and the papyrus it contained, both dated about 1150 B.C.  
 BP’s Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in the Gulf of Mexico
on April 20. BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , who was
yesterday questioned by U.S. lawmakers, has agreed to President
 Barack Obama’s  request to establish a fund to pay damages to
victims. The company temporarily suspended dividends and pledged
asset sales to help finance the $20 billion fund. Legislators
stepped up demands for more action as the number of claims for
compensation increased.  
 The British Museum’s deputy director Andrew Burnett said he
wasn’t concerned about a BP pullout. “Our relationship with BP
is on a long-term basis,” he said.  
 Spending Figure  
 Neither BP spokesman Nicholas nor any of the institutions
would say how much BP gave. In a 2005 interview, Des Violaris,
BP’s U.K. director for arts and culture, indicated that spending
on arts was more than 1 million pounds ($1.5 million) a year.  
 “I think it’s money very well spent,” said  Tony Shepard ,
an analyst at Charles Stanley in London, who issued a  “hold” 
recommendation on BP on June 1.  
 Shepard said he never heard anyone complain about BP arts
support, and while a seven-digit figure might seem a lot, “in
the context of BP’s size, it’s a fairly small number.”  
 “They’ve got a long record of supporting the arts,” said
Shepard. “If they suddenly stopped it, that might produce a bit
of a backlash.”  
 Asked about the sponsorships yesterday, the four
institutions responded with a joint e-mailed statement praising
the energy company.  
 “BP has, for many years, made a significant contribution
to the arts and cultural life of this country,” they said. “We
are grateful to BP for their long-term commitment, sharing the
vision that our artistic programs should be made available to
the widest possible audience.”  
 Cost Benefit  
 The benefits of arts patronage far outweighed its costs,
philanthropy professionals said.  
 “If they were spending billions on it, then people might
say that it was a waste of shareholders’ money, which should be
spent on cleaning up beaches,” said  Colin Tweedy , chief
executive of  Arts & Business , a nonprofit organization that
links arts bodies with corporate and private donors. “Saving
that money will not do anything to the coastline of America.”  
 “It’s a relatively small amount, but the impact they can
have with it is far greater,” said Tweedy.  
 BP’s sponsorship aim has been to make the arts accessible
to as many people as possible. A parallel purpose, according to
the company  website , is to allow institutions to plan ahead and
book artists, shows and artworks far in advance.  
 Live Screenings  
 Since 2001, BP has backed the  Royal Opera House’s  big-
screen summer relays, which transmit live opera and ballet to
thousands of outdoor viewers nationwide. When the agreement was
first signed, BP paid a fee of 270,000 pounds a year for three
years. By 2005, the cost was 350,000 pounds per year, according
to the opera house’s head of development at the time.  
 At the  British Museum , BP is the longest-standing corporate
backer, committed since 1996 when it helped fund the museum’s
Great Court redevelopment. Three years later, BP gave money and
its name to a lecture theater.  
 BP has helped pay for exhibitions over the last decade
including “Mummy: The Inside Story” (2003); “Hadrian: Empire
and Conflict” (2008); and the current “Fra Angelico to
Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings.”  
 At what is now  Tate Britain , BP has, since 1990, helped
fund the presentation of the permanent collection, which is
regularly rehung to keep it fresh and appealing to the public.  
 At the  National Portrait Gallery , BP’s main focus is the BP
Portrait Award, now in its 21st year and open to anyone over 18.
The show connected with the award draws some 300,000 people a
year to the London venue, according to the BP Web Site.  
 That sponsorship has been renewed through 2012, according
to gallery spokesman Neil Evans.  
 To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Paolo Uccello drawing, ``Study of a Chalice''  
                       
                         
                           Uffizi/ British Museum via Bloomberg. 
                         
                         A drawing by Paolo Uccello, ``Study of a Chalice,'' (c. 1450-70) is on show in ``Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings,'' sponsored by BP, at the British Museum from April 22 through July 25. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A drawing by Paolo Uccello, ``Study of a Chalice,'' (c. 1450-70) is on show in ``Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings,'' sponsored by BP, at the British Museum from April 22 through July 25. Source: Uffizi/ British Museum via Bloomberg.  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Thick oil from the BP Deepwater Horizon  
                       
                         
                           Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Thick oil from the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill floats on the surface of water, and coats the marsh wetlands in Bay Jimmy near Port Sulphur, LA. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Thick oil from the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill floats on the surface of water, and coats the marsh wetlands in Bay Jimmy near Port Sulphur, LA. Photographer: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The Virgin and Child with St Anne and the Child Baptist  
                       
                         
                           the Trustees of the British Museum via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A drawing by Leonardo da Vinci, ''The Virgin and Child with St Anne and the Child Baptist,'' believed to be dated 1505-8. This drawing is on show in ''Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings'' at the British Museum, in an exhibition sponsored by BP, from April 22 through July 25. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A drawing by Leonardo da Vinci, ''The Virgin and Child with St Anne and the Child Baptist,'' believed to be dated 1505-8. This drawing is on show in ''Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings'' at the British Museum, in an exhibition sponsored by BP, from April 22 through July 25. Source: the Trustees of the British Museum via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Transocean Ltd.  
                       
                         
                           Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Transocean Ltd. Development Driller III platform, leased by BP Plc, works to drill a relief well at the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill site. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Transocean Ltd. Development Driller III platform, leased by BP Plc, works to drill a relief well at the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill site. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A handout provided to the media on Wednesday, July 23, 2008, shows a marble bust of Hadrian in military dress from 125-130 AD. Source: British Museum via Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
