-- BP, Nalco Sued Over Dispersant Used in Gulf Spill (Correct)
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-06-18T15:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bp-nalco-sued-over-allegedly-toxic-dispersant-being-used-in-gulf-spill.html

          
          
             (Corrects amount of dispersant used from billion to million
in fifth paragraph of story published yesterday.)  
 BP Plc and a Nalco Holding Co. unit,
the maker of a chemical dispersant used to deal with the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill, were sued by Louisiana residents claiming the
product is four times more toxic than the oil itself.  
 BP has been using the dispersant to break up oil and reduce
harm to the coast following the April explosion of the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig. The plaintiffs claim BP used the
dispersant to save money “and lessen the public reaction to the
oil spill” by forcing it to the bottom of the Gulf.  
 The lawsuit, filed today in federal court in New Orleans,
is a proposed class action that would include all workers and
Gulf Coast residents claiming harm from the chemical. The
plaintiffs are seeking at least $5 million in actual damages and
unspecified punitive damages.  
 “The dispersant has been sprayed over the Gulf of Mexico
and has caused a toxic chemical to be a permanent part of the
sea bed and food chain in the bio structure,” according to the
complaint. The chemical causes “an even more dangerous
condition to exist in the Gulf of Mexico than if the oil was
allowed to float to the shoreline,” the residents said in the
complaint.  
 More than 1.3 million gallons of dispersants have been
sprayed into the Gulf since April 20, according to the Deepwater
Horizon Unified Command linking companies and government
agencies responding to the spill.  
 BP has applied Nalco’s Corexit from planes and from the sea
floor to help keep the worst oil spill in U.S. history from
damaging wetland habitats.  
 230 Lawsuits  
 The lawsuit is one of more than 230 filed against BP over
the spill in federal and state courts.  
 Charlie Pajor, a spokesman for Naperville, Illinois-based
Nalco, declined to comment on the lawsuit. “We feel our product
is safe and effective,” he said in a phone interview.  
 Toby Odone, a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment.  
 The case is Parker v. Nalco Co., 2:10-cv-01749, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        