-- BP Suits Should Be Sent to New Orleans, U.S. Says
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-06-17T17:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bp-oil-spill-federal-suits-should-be-combined-in-new-orleans-u-s-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc , the target of more than 220
federal-court lawsuits over the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, should
face a consolidation of the litigation in  New Orleans , the U.S.
government said.  
 Justice Department  lawyers, in a June 10 filing made public
today, urged a panel of judges to gather all the suits before a
single judge in New Orleans for pre-trial proceedings. The
government didn’t identify the judge. BP officials have asked
that the cases be sent to U.S. District Judge  Lynn Hughes  in
Houston.  
 New Orleans “is centrally located and is geographically
closest to the key events giving rise to liability in these
matters,” U.S. lawyers said in the nine-page filing.  
 Most of the at least 232 cases filed in state and federal
courts so far against London-based BP are proposed class actions
representing potentially thousands of commercial fishermen,
shrimpers, seafood processors, property owners and tourism-
related businesses harmed by the spill, the largest in U.S.
history.  
 The company also faces wrongful-death suits brought by the
families of workers killed in the April 20 explosion of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig. On June 2,  Credit Suisse Group
AG  estimated that the combined cleanup, restoration and
litigation costs of the spill may top $37 billion.  
 “BP continues to believe that the federal district court
in Houston will provide the most convenient location for all of
the related cases, and has the judicial resources and experience
necessary to properly manage a large and complex group of
cases,”  Robert Wine , a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 ‘Overburdened Dockets’  
 BP officials argued in a June 14 filing that federal judges
in New Orleans and the rest of the Eastern District of Louisiana
are dealing with “overburdened dockets” and that Houston, home
to BP’s U.S. headquarters, will give the parties easy access to
documents and witnesses involved in the cases.  
 A  panel  of judges will hear arguments next month in Idaho
about where the cases should be gathered. Under the multi-
district litigation system, suits filed in federal courts around
the U.S. can be consolidated before a single judge for pre-trial
hearings.  
 Once pre-trial information exchanges are done, the cases
are sent back to the courts where they were originally filed for
trial. Consolidation cuts expenses for both sides.  
 In their filing, the Justice Department’s attorneys noted
that New Orleans is 296 miles (476 kilometers) closer to the
site of the spill, located about 50 miles off the Louisiana
coast. Tides are pushing the oil away from the Texas coast and
onto beaches in Louisiana, Alabama and Florida, the government’s
lawyers said.  
 “Words like catastrophic and cataclysmic” don’t do
justice to “the magnitude of economic, health and environmental
devastation wrought upon the nation’s waters” by the spill, the
lawyers said.  
 Judicial Conflicts  
 BP’s lawyers counter that a Houston-based consolidation of
the cases has the support of some lawyers for spill victims and
that New Orleans and other Louisiana courts are still grappling
with legal fallout from Hurricane Katrina in 2005.  
 The lawyers also noted that eight federal judges in New
Orleans and surrounding federal courts have recused themselves
from presiding over the consolidation because of potential
conflicts of interest. That leaves only three judges to pick
from, BP’s attorneys said.  
 Some plaintiffs have asked the MDL panel to assign  Shira Scheindlin , a New York federal judge who has experience with
environmental cases, to travel to New Orleans to oversee the
consolidated cases given the spate of judicial recusals.  
 That cross-country appointment would “unnecessarily waste
time and judicial resources,” BP lawyers said in the filing.
“There are well-qualified judges in nearby Houston who possess
the experience and docket capacity to manage this MDL.”  
 Hughes, the Houston-based judge requested by BP, has
lectured for an oilfield industry professional group that pays
his travel expenses, according to filings obtained from the
 Judicial Watch  website.  
 No Love  
 Hughes also owns six mutual funds that include shares in
companies involved in the spill, including one fund whose
largest component  is Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , a minority
partner in the damaged well, according to the filings.  
 The judge declined in an e-mail to Bloomberg News earlier
this month to discuss any aspect of the oil spill cases that are
already before him or any potential conflicts.  
 “I’m happy to do it,” Hughes told lawyers at May hearing
in his Houston court, referring to overseeing the consolidated
spill litigation. “But I’m certainly not going to love you for
it.”  
 The multidistrict case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
“Deepwater Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
U.S. Judicial Panel on  Multidistrict Litigation , MDL-2179,
Washington.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        