-- Barton Apologizes for Calling BP's Spill Fund a Shakedown
-- Jeff Plungis
-- 2010-06-17T20:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bp-s-spill-claim-fund-is-a-20-billion-shakedown-republican-barton-says.html

          
          
             Representative  Joe Barton , a Texas
Republican, said a fund  BP Plc  agreed to establish after meeting
with President  Barack Obama  yesterday amounted to “a $20
billion shakedown.”  
 “I’m ashamed of what happened in the White House,” Barton
said today as a House Energy Committee panel began a hearing on
BP’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill. The Obama administration called
Barton’s comments “shameful,” fellow Republicans rejected the
remarks and almost six hours later, Barton apologized.  
 The London-based oil company agreed yesterday to Obama’s
request to establish a fund to pay damages from the spill, and
to temporarily suspend dividends as Gulf residents and
businesses begin filing claims. BP said it will commit $20
billion to the fund.  
 Barton spoke in opening statements before testimony to the
committee by  BP  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , in his
first appearance before Congress since its oil well exploded.  
 “It is a tragedy of the first proportion that a private
corporation can be subjected to what I would characterize as a
shakedown, in this case, a $20 billion shakedown,” said Barton,
who called the money set aside “a slush fund.”  
 White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  called in a
statement for lawmakers from both parties to “repudiate his
comments.”  
 ‘Big Corporations’  
 “What is shameful is that Joe Barton seems to have more
concern for big corporations that caused this disaster than the
fishermen, small business owners and communities whose lives
have been devastated by the destruction,” Gibbs said.  
 Vice President  Joe Biden  called Barton’s remarks
“incredibly insensitive, incredibly out of touch.”  
 Barton’s criticism was also rejected by House Republican
Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio.  
 “BP agreed to fund the cost of this cleanup from the
beginning, and I’m glad they are being held accountable,”
Boehner told reporters.  
 In the statement apologizing for the “shakedown”
description, Barton said, “I regret the impact that my
statement this morning implied that BP should not pay for the
consequences of their decisions and actions in the incident.”  
 Asked about Barton’s initial comments, Hayward called the
fund “a signal of our commitment to do right.”  
 “I certainly didn’t think this was a slush fund,” Hayward
said.  
 Barton had also faulted Attorney General  Eric Holder  for
taking part in the meetings with BP at the White House yesterday
while the Justice Department is investigating whether criminal
or civil laws were violated in the spill  
 ‘Entirely Appropriate’  
 “We have dealt with this issue I think in a tough way to
ensure that Americans who did no wrong will be compensated, that
we do all we can to protect our environment and that not a penny
comes from American taxpayer to do both of those things,”
Holder said at a news conference in Washington today. “So I
think that what we’ve done has been entirely appropriate.”  
 Hayward drew criticism from the House panel for allegedly
ignoring dangers at the Macondo well that exploded, creating the
biggest U.S. oil spill.  
 “We could find no evidence that you paid any attention to
the tremendous risk BP was taking,” Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat, said. “There is not a single e-
mail or document that shows you paid the slightest attention to
the dangers at this well.”  
 Hayward was slammed by Waxman for trying to “stonewall”
the committee by declining to answer specific questions that the
panel had sent him in advance about decisions before the well
exploded.  
 ‘I’m Not Stonewalling’  
 “I’m not stonewalling,” Hayward said. “I simply wasn’t
involved with the decision-making.”  
 BP was struggling to seal cracks at the well as far back as
February, more than two months before the explosion, according
to drilling documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 Hayward, 53, who told the lawmakers he is “personally
devastated” by the spill and the death of 11 workers in the
explosion, was warned through the list of advance questions to
expect a rough reception from lawmakers. Before today’s hearing,
lawmakers described five “questionable decisions” by BP that
they said the CEO should be prepared to discuss.  
 BP’s American depositary receipts, each equal to six
ordinary shares, fell 14 cents to $31.71 at 4:15 p.m. New York
time.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representative Joe Barton questions BP CEO Tony Hayward, during a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Diana DeGette, a Colorado Democrat, talks with Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan about the BP Plc oil spill hearings. 
     Degette says she "can't believe" that Representative Joe Barton, a Texas Republican, called BP's $20 billion escrow fund a "shakedown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
