-- BP's $20 Billion Fund May Not Stop Spill Lawsuits, Judge Says
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-06-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bp-s-20-billion-fund-may-not-stop-spill-lawsuits-new-orleans-judge-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc ’s $20 billion oil spill fund,
established at the request of U.S. President  Barack Obama , may
not stop more than 230 lawsuits filed by people and businesses
harmed by the worst environmental disaster in U.S. history, a
judge said.  
 U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  said while BP’s new fund
is a welcome step, he believes some spill damage claims won’t be
resolved through either the interim-claims process BP has set up
under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 or by the panel of
mediators, led by  Ken Feinberg , appointed by Obama to administer
the fund.  
 “Hopefully, everybody will be satisfied through the OPA 90
claims process, and nobody will end up in court,” lawyer Steve
Herman, who represents multiple hotels and fishing industry
workers, told Barbier yesterday at a hearing in federal court in
New Orleans.  
 “I’m not as optimistic as you,” Barbier told Herman and
more than 75 other lawyers for fishermen, seafood processors,
property owners and tourism-related businesses suing BP.  
 Barbier said judges will be required to decide which damage
claims are too “remote” from the oil spill to be legally
valid. According to data compiled by Bloomberg, litigation
against BP and other companies involved in the Gulf spill now
extends beyond the Gulf Coast, including cases filed in
Kentucky, South Carolina and Alaska.  
 Up the Chain  
 “It could be geographic remoteness or legal remoteness,”
Barbier said. “It’ll be about where the line is drawn up the
chain.”  
 U.S.  Justice Department  lawyers, in a June 10 filing made
public yesterday, urged a panel of judges to gather all the
federal court suits before a single judge in  New Orleans  for
pre-trial proceedings. The government didn’t identify the judge.
BP officials have asked that the cases be sent to U.S. District
Judge  Lynn Hughes  in Houston.  
 New Orleans “is centrally located and is geographically
closest to the key events giving rise to liability in these
matters,” U.S. lawyers said in the nine-page filing.  
 Most of the at least 232 cases filed in state and federal
courts so far against London-based BP are proposed class actions
representing potentially thousands of commercial fishermen,
shrimpers, seafood processors, property owners and tourism-
related businesses harmed by the spill, the largest in U.S.
history.  
 Wrongful-Death Suits  
 The company also faces wrongful-death suits brought by the
families of workers killed in the April 20 explosion of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig. On June 2,  Credit Suisse Group
AG  estimated that the combined cleanup, restoration and
litigation costs of the spill may top $37 billion.  
 “BP continues to believe that the federal district court
in Houston will provide the most convenient location for all of
the related cases, and has the judicial resources and experience
necessary to properly manage a large and complex group of
cases,”  Robert Wine , a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 In a case filed yesterday in federal court in New Orleans,
 BP  and a  Nalco Holding Co.  unit, the maker of a chemical
dispersant used to deal with the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, were
sued by Louisiana residents claiming the product is four times
more toxic than the oil itself.  
 BP has been using the dispersant to break up oil and reduce
harm to the coast. The plaintiffs claim BP used the dispersant
to save money “and lessen the public reaction to the oil
spill” by forcing it to the bottom of the Gulf.  
 Class Action  
 The  lawsuit  is a proposed class action that would include
all workers and Gulf Coast residents claiming harm from the
chemical. The plaintiffs are seeking at least $5 million in
actual damages and unspecified punitive damages.  
 “The dispersant has been sprayed over the Gulf of Mexico
and has caused a toxic chemical to be a permanent part of the
sea bed and food chain in the bio structure,” according to the
complaint. The chemical causes “an even more dangerous
condition to exist in the Gulf of Mexico than if the oil was
allowed to float to the shoreline,” the residents said in the
complaint.  
 Charlie Pajor , a spokesman for Naperville, Illinois-based
Nalco, declined to comment on the lawsuit. “We feel our product
is safe and effective,” he said in a phone interview.  
 Toby Odone , a BP spokesman, declined to comment.  
 Georgia, South Carolina  
 Beachfront property owners in Georgia and South Carolina
have sued over vacation cancellations, even though the drifting
oil has yet to enter the Atlantic Ocean. Companies that supply
coastal restaurants, seafood processors and oilfield services
firms also have sued or are evaluating claims over lost profits
from the closure of beaches and fisheries, Herman said in an
interview before yesterday’s hearing in New Orleans.  
 As of yesterday, “BP has paid 60,000 claims totaling
nearly $100 million,” BP’s lead lawyer Don Haycraft told
Barbier at the hearing. All of these claims have been resolved
so far through the OPA 90 claims process.  
 Barbier told lawyers he expects the OPA 90 interim-claims
process will be “subsumed” into BP’s new fund at some point,
although he wasn’t clear on details of how that will work.  
 New Orleans lawyer Val Exnicios, who represents the United
Commercial Fisherman’s Association, said no one is sure yet how
the Feinberg-controlled fund will interact with the spill-claims
litigation.  
 Referee Claims  
 “All I want is for the fishermen to be made whole for
their losses, for as long as it takes,” Exnicios said in an
interview before the hearing. Judges and juries will likely be
required to referee certain types of claims that BP doesn’t want
to pay, he said.  
 “For some of these fishermen, this has been their
livelihoods for generations, and that way of life may be gone
for good,” Exnicios said. “I don’t think BP is going to want
to pay them for that.”  
 The multidistrict case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
“Deepwater Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
U.S. Judicial Panel on  Multidistrict Litigation , MDL-2179,
Washington. The dispersants case is Parker v. Nalco Co., 2:10-
cv-01749, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP Plc contract workers clean up oil  
                       
                         
                           Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         BP Plc contract workers are reflected in a pool of oil as they use a vacuum hose to clean the beach at Grand Isle State Park in Grand Isle, Louisiana. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     BP Plc contract workers are reflected in a pool of oil as they use a vacuum hose to clean the beach at Grand Isle State Park in Grand Isle, Louisiana. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Louisiana State Treasurer John Kennedy talks with Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan about the need for state and federal governments to be prepared to "step in" if BP Plc files for bankruptcy.
     Kennedy, speaking yesterday, also discussed his concern about the environmental effects of the dispersants being used to break down the oil in the water. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Attorney William Merlin talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about BP Plc's payment of claims filed against it over the company's oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. 
     Merlin says the speed and size of BP payouts have been a "big problem" and that he hopes that the appointment of Kenneth Feinberg to oversee a $20 billion compensation fund will help. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     BP CEO Tony Hayward testifies at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on the accident in the Gulf of Mexico involving the BP Deepwater Horizon rig, in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama, second from right, meets with BP executives in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. Sitting from left are BP CEO Tony Hayward, Chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg, General Counsel Rupert Bondy, Managing Director Robert Dudley, Obama's senior adviser Valerie Jarrett, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis, Attorney General Eric Holder, Vice President Joseph Biden, Obama, and Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano. Photographer: Pete Souza/White House via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Oil sticks to the glove of a reporter  
                       
                         
                           Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Oil sticks to the glove of a reporter in the Gulf of Mexico, about nine miles off the coast of Pensacola, Florida. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Oil sticks to the glove of a reporter in the Gulf of Mexico, about nine miles off the coast of Pensacola, Florida. Photographer: Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
