-- Cracks Show BP Was Battling Gulf Well as Early as February
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-06-17T14:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bp-struggled-with-cracks-in-gulf-well-as-early-as-february-documents-show.html

          
          
             BP  Plc was struggling to seal cracks
in its Macondo well as far back as February, more than two
months before an explosion killed 11 and spewed oil into the
Gulf of Mexico.  
 It took 10 days to plug the first cracks, according to
reports BP filed with the  Minerals Management Service  that were
later delivered to congressional investigators. Cracks in the
surrounding rock continued to complicate the drilling operation
during the ensuing weeks. Left unsealed, they can allow
explosive natural gas to rush up the shaft.  
 “Once they realized they had oil down there, all the
decisions they made were designed to get that oil at the lowest
cost,” said Peter Galvin of the  Center for Biological
Diversity,  which has been working with congressional
investigators probing the disaster. “It’s been a doomed voyage
from the beginning.”  
 BP didn’t respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment. The
company’s shares rose 22 pence to 359 pence today in London
after the company struck a deal with the Obama administration
yesterday to establish a $20 billion fund to pay cleanup costs
and compensation. BP has lost 45 percent of its market value
since the catastrophe.  
 On Feb. 13,  BP  told the minerals service it was trying to
seal cracks in the well about 40 miles (64 kilometers) off the
Louisiana coast, drilling documents obtained by Bloomberg show.
Investigators are still trying to determine whether the fissures
played a role in the disaster.  
 ‘Cement Squeeze’  
 The company attempted a “cement squeeze,” which involves
pumping cement to seal the fissures, according to a well
activity report. Over the following week the company made
repeated attempts to plug cracks that were draining expensive
drilling fluid, known as “mud,” into the surrounding rocks.  
 BP  used three different substances to plug the holes before
succeeding, the documents show.  
 “Most of the time you do a squeeze and then let it dry and
you’re done,” said John Wang, an assistant professor of
petroleum and natural gas engineering at Penn State in
University Park, Pennsylvania. “It dries within a few hours.”  
 Repeated squeeze attempts are unusual and may indicate rig
workers are using the wrong kind of cement, Wang said.  
 Grappling Engineers  
 BP Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward and other top
executives were ignorant of the difficulties the company’s
engineers were grappling with in the well before the explosion,
U.S. Representative Henry Waxman, chairman of the House Energy
and Commerce Committee, said today during a hearing in
Washington.  
 “We could find no evidence that you paid any attention to
the tremendous risk BP was taking,” Waxman said as Hayward
waited to testify. “There is not a single e-mail or document
that you paid the slightest attention to the dangers at this
well.”  
 BP Chief Operating Officer Doug Suttles and exploration
chief Andy Inglis “were apparently oblivious to what was
happening,” said Waxman, a California Democrat. “BP’s
corporate complacency is astonishing.”  
 In early March, BP told the minerals agency the company was
having trouble maintaining control of surging natural gas,
according to e-mails released May 30 by the House Energy and
Commerce Committee, which is investigating the spill.  
 Gas Surges  
 While gas surges are common in oil drilling, companies have
abandoned wells if they determine the risk is too high. When a
Gulf well known as Blackbeard threatened to blow out in 2006,
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  shut the project down.  
 “We don’t proceed if we cannot do so safely,” Exxon
Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  told a House Energy and
Commerce committee panel on June 15.  
 On March 10, BP executive Scherie Douglas e-mailed Frank
Patton, the mineral service’s drilling engineer for the New
Orleans district, telling him: “We’re in the midst of a well
control situation.”  
 The incident was a “showstopper,” said  Robert Bea , an
engineering professor at the University of California, Berkeley,
who has consulted with the Interior Department on offshore
drilling safety. “They damn near blew up the rig.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alison Fitzgerald  in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Washington at  jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Transocean Ltd.  
                       
                         
                           Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Transocean Ltd. Development Driller III platform, leased by BP Plc, works to drill a relief well at the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill site. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Transocean Ltd. Development Driller III platform, leased by BP Plc, works to drill a relief well at the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill site. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
