-- BP's Gulf Spill Fuels Australian Opponents to Deepwater Drilling for Oil
-- James Paton
-- 2010-06-17T07:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bp-s-gulf-spill-fuels-australian-opponents-to-deepwater-drilling-for-oil.html

          
          
             BP Plc ’s Gulf of Mexico disaster is
generating opposition to deepwater drilling off Australia, where
the government is opening new exploration areas less than a year
after the country’s third-worst oil spill.  
 Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  will receive the results
tomorrow of an investigation into last August’s Timor Sea oil
spill, he said in a phone interview. A month ago, he invited
companies to bid for permits to explore new “frontiers” as
Australia faces an import cost for oil and liquid fuels that may
double in five years to A$30 billion ($26 billion). The country
was self sufficient in oil as recently as 2000.  
 Ferguson, who today ruled out suspending exploration, is
offering 31  drilling areas  in waters as deep as 3,750 meters,
more than twice the depth of BP’s leaking well. Australia’s
expanded search for oil and gas comes as BP’s spill, the worst
in U.S. history, focuses attention on petroleum industry safety.  
 “We should hold off on exploring in some of the deeper
basins,” said Tina Hunter, an assistant law professor at Bond
University in Queensland state who studies offshore oil
regulation. “The last thing we need is to go into deeper waters
and risk something like what happened in the U.S.”  
 Chevron Corp.,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and ConocoPhillips are
among companies planning more than $185 billion of oil and gas
projects in the country, according to the Australian Petroleum
Production and Exploration Association.  
 ‘Accidents Will Happen’  
 Increased drilling adds to the risk a disaster the size of
the BP Gulf spill could occur off Australia, said Justin
Marshall, a professor at the University of Queensland.  
 “The public needs much greater assurance accidents can be
dealt with effectively, because they will happen,” Marshall, a
former president of the  Australian Coral Reef Society , said by
phone yesterday. “Safety measures need to be enforced at a much
higher level, the risks to the environment are huge.”  
 The U.S. probe into the BP spill and what caused the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig to explode on April 20, killing
11 workers, will focus on safety lapses and equipment failures.  
 Oil producers around the world are bracing for stricter
regulation. Norway will ban any deepwater drilling in new areas
until the cause of the BP spill is known, Oil Minister  Terje Riis-Johansen  said June 8. Russia may tighten its rules, Energy
Minister  Sergei Shmatko  said May 24.  
 Obama Response  
 BP’s spill was initially overseen by the U.S.  Minerals
Management Service . The agency, faulted for lax regulation, was
broken into three by President  Barack Obama  on May 19, creating
bodies to oversee leases, drilling safety and fee collection.  
 When Ferguson opened the new areas on May 17, he said the
country must streamline rules to make a single agency
responsible for safety, well operations and the environment.  
 “There is no intention by the government to scale back the
development of the oil and gas industry in Australia,” Ferguson
said today. “It is very important in terms of the nation’s
energy security, jobs and the overall economy, but I am totally
focused on the need to ensure we have the absolute best
practices in place.”  
 The National Offshore Petroleum Safety Authority, the
 Australian Maritime Safety Authority  and the Northern Territory
Department of Resources are among bodies that had oversight of
the Montara spill.  
 Moratorium Needed  
 Australia needs a yearlong moratorium on deepwater
drilling to study the Montara report and the BP spill, Bond
University’s Hunter told Bloomberg Television today.  
 Companies drilled 1,500 wells off Australia in the 25 years
before the Montara accident without any blowouts, the petroleum
group said. Explorers face stringent environmental conditions
before drilling, Chief Executive Officer  Belinda Robinson  said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  
 Last year’s spill, about 250 kilometers (155 miles) off
the Kimberley coast, shows Australia needs a single agency to
monitor well safety, protect the marine environment and oversee
spill response, according to Hunter.  
 Calls to strengthen Australian regulations began before the
Montara incident when a 2008 explosion at Apache Corp.’s Varanus
Island gas plant caused fuel shortages in Western Australia,
source of a third of the nation’s exports.  
 ‘Consistent Approach’  
 “Some of the issues that have arisen as a result of the
Varanus and Montara incidents mean we need to revisit our
regulatory system and make sure we have the strongest possible
national, consistent approach, rather than allowing potential
differences to develop,” Ferguson said.  
 Montara may have spilled about 30,000 barrels of oil
between Aug. 21 and Nov. 3, based on estimates by Bangkok-based
PTT. That would make it the third-biggest spill in Australian
history, according to figures from the Maritime Safety Authority.  
 The Timor Sea accident and a Chinese coal carrier that ran
aground in April on the Great Barrier Reef have already damaged
the marine environment, University of Queensland’s Marshall said.  
 “The ocean is full of life, and when that oil sinks to the
bottom it’s going to be killing things,” he said.  
 Australian Greens party Senator  Rachel Siewert  urged the
government to scrap the latest set of new drilling permits,
concerned about the threat to whales, seals, turtles and other
marine life in one area marked for exploration off the Western
Australian coast. Parts of this block are “extremely deep,” as
much as 3,750 meters, the  Resources Department  said.  
 “If a Montara-size spill occurred there, you’d see oil on
the coast,” Siewert said in a telephone interview. “There are
dangers inherent in deepwater production, and the government
should put a hold on exploration that we have control over.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        