-- BP, Extended Stay, Vegas Strip Property: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-06-17T12:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bp-vegas-strip-property-penn-traffic-questex-black-crow-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             U.S. Representative John Conyers
Jr., chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, introduced a
bill on June 10 that would take away some of  BP Plc ’s bankruptcy
options, should it choose reorganization to resolve liabilities
for the  oil spill  in the  Gulf of Mexico .  
 If passed in both houses of Congress and signed by the
president, the bill would prevent any BP company liable for the
spill from selling any property unless the buyer agrees to be
liable for damages “arising from the incident” that aren’t
paid by London-based BP.  
 If BP were to need bankruptcy protection, the proposed law
would force it to do so in the U.S., according to  Lynn LoPucki ,
a professor of law from the University of California at  Los
Angeles . If enacted, the legislation would also prevent BP from
taking a page out of the General Motors playbook where assets
were sold to a new company free from all claims, in the process
cutting off creditors from seeking payment from “new” GM.  
 The bill would also prevent BP from using Chapter 15 of
U.S. bankruptcy law, which governs cross-border insolvencies. If
the bill passes, BP companies seeking bankruptcy protection in
the U.S. could only utilize Chapter 7 for liquidation or Chapter
11 for reorganization.  
 Blocking access to Chapter 15 would take away an attractive
option that could put a court in  London  in control of
bankruptcies even in the U.S. Passing the bill would assure that
U.S. bankruptcy courts would be the primary authority in the
bankruptcy of any BP company, at least with respect to assets
within the reach of U.S. federal courts.  
 For a company operating in several countries, Chapter 15
provides that the country with the head office is entitled for
its court to be in charge of a worldwide bankruptcy. Where
Chapter 15 is applicable, the U.S. court stops lawsuits and
creditor actions in the U.S. Creditors, as a result, must prove
their claims and receive their distributions in the foreign
court.  
 Absent the change in law proposed by Conyers in H.R. 5503,
BP and its subsidiaries could file for administration in U.K.
courts, aiming to force U.S. creditors to prove their claims to
the satisfaction of the U.K. court by filing under Chapter 15 in
the U.S. The Conyers bill would foreclose the Chapter 15 option.  
 Even before enactment, the bill might scare away anyone
thinking about buying assets from BP.  
 Updates  
 Starwood Unveils Competing Extended Stay Reorganization Plan  
 Hotel operator Starwood Capital Group LLC and the official
creditors’ committee for Extended Stay Inc. took the wraps off
the competing reorganization plan they hope the bankruptcy judge
in  Delaware  will allow them to file.  
 If the competing plan wins the day, Greenwich, Connecticut-
based Starwood would end up with at least 75 percent of the new
stock of Extended Stay while secured lenders owed $4.1 billion
would have their debt reinstated.  
 To submit the proposal, Starwood and the committee need the
bankruptcy judge to end Extended Stay’s exclusive right to file
a plan. The so-called exclusivity motion isn’t officially on the
court’s calendar for hearing today. Nevertheless, it assuredly
will be discussed when Extended Stay, the operator of more than
680 long-term lodging properties in 44 states, asks the
bankruptcy judge to approve its disclosure statement so
creditors can vote on the company’s plan.  
 If Extended Stay’s plan is confirmed, Centerbridge Partners
LP, Paulson & Co. and  Blackstone Group LP  will end up as owners
by paying $3.93 billion in cash. The committee and Starwood have
an entirely different idea about a plan that would include
distributions to creditors who otherwise would receive nothing
in a sale to the Centerbridge group.  
 Starwood proposes to invest $560 million in cash for 75
percent of the new equity. Mortgage lenders owed $4.1 billion
would have their debt reinstated and would receive any default-
rate interest and principal payments due.  
 Mezzanine lenders owed $3.3 billion would have the right to
participate in a rights offering to buy 20 percent of the stock
for $140 million. To the extent the so-called mezz lenders don’t
buy, Starwood is providing a backstop and will purchase unsold
stock.  
 The mezzanine lenders would receive the remaining 5 percent
of the new stock outright.  
 Unsecured creditors are being offer the right to
participate in a litigation trust that would be funded with a
$15 million loan.  
 Starwood and the committee want the bankruptcy judge to
postpone approval of the company’s disclosure statement so both
plans can go to creditors for vote. When the votes are counted,
“the Court can decide which plan to confirm based on creditor
preferences,” the committee says in its papers.  
 Starwood and the committee emphasize how holders of $175
million in subordinated mortgages will have their debt
reinstated and paid. Under the company plan, they would receive
nothing aside from a litigation trust, just like mezzanine
lenders and unsecured creditors.  
 The committee and Starwood already filed papers asking the
judge not to approve Extended Stay’s disclosure statement. In
papers filed June 14, Starwood alleges that Extended Stay
departed from court-approved auction rules by insisting on all-
cash bids.  
 The lenders disagree in their own papers filed yesterday,
saying no one insisted on cash alone. They also say Starwood
never complained during the course of the auction about how it
was being run.  
 For details about the company’s plan and the auction, click
here to read the June 10 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Before the
auction, Extended Stay was hoping for a July 20 confirmation
hearing to approve the plan.  
 Extended Stay’s Chapter 11 petition in June 2009 listed
assets of $7.1 billion against debt totaling $7.6 billion,
including $4.1 billion in mortgage loans and $3.3 billion in 10
different mezzanine loans.  
 Based in Spartanburg,  South Carolina , Extended Stay says
it’s the largest operator of mid-priced extended stay hotels in
the U.S. The properties are almost all managed by HVM LLC, an
affiliate that didn’t file in Chapter 11.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District  New York  (Manhattan).  
 Vegas Judge Ends Plan Exclusivity for FX Luxury Strip Property  
 The future ownership of 17.7 acres on the Las Vegas Strip
was thrown into doubt on June 11 when the bankruptcy judge
granted a motion by second-lien lenders and terminated the
exclusive right of FX Luxury Las Vegas I LLC to propose a
reorganization plan, according to an e-mail from Lenard M. Parkins, one the lawyers from Haynes & Boone LLP in New York
representing the junior lenders.  
 FX filed a so-called prepackaged reorganization plan along
with the Chapter 11 petition on April 21. FX responded to the
loss of so-called exclusivity by withdrawing the plan on June
14.  
 The now-withdrawn plan called for transferring the property
to the first-lien lenders if there wasn’t a cash bid of at least
$256 million. The principal owing to the senior lenders is $259
million. On the second lien, $195 million on principal is
outstanding. Both debts matured.  
 The property, which is slated for redevelopment, had a
liquidation value of $137 million at the end of 2009, FX said in
a court filing.  
 Before ending FX’s exclusive rights on a plan, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Bruce A. Markell in Las Vegas said he had never
terminated exclusivity, according to Parkins.  
 The second-lien lenders said in court papers that they
intend to propose a plan of their own promising to treat the
senior lenders “consistent with bankruptcy law” while
providing “some return to non-insider equity holders of the
debtor.”  
 FX’s abandoned plan would have given nothing to the second-
lien creditors and unsecured creditors.  
 For details on FX’s abandoned plan and negotiations that
preceded the Chapter 11 filing, click here to see the April 22
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 FX intended to develop the property into a hotel, casino,
and other businesses until the financial markets collapsed and
the Las Vegas gaming market declined. After default on the first
mortgage, a receiver was appointed in June 2009.  
 The petition listed assets of $140 million against debt
totaling $493 million.  
 The case is In re FX Luxury Las Vegas I LLC, 10-17015, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 Capmark Creditors Question $1.5 Billion Secured Loan  
 The official creditors’ committee for Capmark Financial
Group Inc. wants permission from the bankruptcy judge to
investigate a $1.5 billion secured loan that was made 149 days
before the Chapter 11 filing in October. The committee says the
loan proceeds were used to pay off unsecured debt owing to
practically the same lenders.  
 Having been made more than 90 days before bankruptcy, the
loan cannot be attacked as a so-called preference. The committee
says the loan only delayed the inevitable bankruptcy. The
committee doesn’t say exactly how it believes the loan may be
shown to be voidable in bankruptcy.  
 The committee says that Capmark itself is unwilling to take
action to set aside the loan or the security interest. The
bankruptcy judge in Delaware will hold a June 29 hearing on
whether the committee should have power to investigate with the
use of subpoenas.  
 Since filing in Chapter 11, Capmark completed three sales
to generate more than $1 billion cash.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .
and  Leucadia National Corp . bought most of the business for $468
million.  
 Capmark previously said it intends to file a plan giving
stock to unsecured creditors while reorganizing around its non-
bankrupt bank subsidiary, which wasn’t sold. Based in Horsham,
Pennsylvania, Capmark was called GMAC Commercial Holding Corp.
before control was sold in 2006. It had been GMAC’s servicing
and mortgage-banking business.  
 KKR & Co.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., Dune Capital
Management LP and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC owned 75.4
percent of Capmark following a 2006 acquisition from General
Motors Corp. for $1.5 billion cash and repayment of $7.3 billion
in debt. Capmark’s debt includes a $1.5 billion term loan
secured by all assets except Capmark’s bank’s, $234 million
remaining under a bridge loan, a $4.6 billion senior credit,
$2.34 billion in notes and a $250 million junior subordinated
debt. The bank had assets of $11.1 billion and deposits of $8.39
billion, according to a court filing.  
 The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Second-Lien Creditors Fighting EnviroSolutions Plan  
 EnviroSolutions Holdings Inc., a trash hauler and owner of
three landfills, will face opposition from second-lien creditors
at the July 21 hearing for approval of the Chapter 11 plan. The
junior lenders argue that the first-lien creditors are being
paid more than in full.  
 The unsecured creditors’ committee likewise believes the
company is worth more than the first-lien debt. It urged
unsecured creditors to vote against the plan that was negotiated
with holders of about 75 percent of the $211 million in first-
lien debt.  
 The plan calls for the first-lien creditors to receive
nearly all of the new stock plus an $85 million secured term
loan in return for their existing $198 million term loan. The
explanatory disclosure statement projects a 78 percent recovery
on the existing term loan.  
 The second-lien creditors, in their court filing yesterday,
contend the stock alone is worth $160 million, meaning that the
first-lien holders are taking home paper worth $245 million in
total.  
 Second-lien lenders, owed $23.3 million, are to receive
$1.2 million cash. If they all vote for the plan, grant
releases, and don’t object to confirmation, the recovery rises
to $1.4 million. The recovery on the second lien is projected to
be 5.1 percent to 6 percent. The junior lenders believe the plan
is an impermissible “death trap” since they must give releases
to gain a larger distribution.  
 Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., the holder of $41.7
million in subordinated notes, is to receive nothing.  
 General unsecured creditors, owed $5.9 million, are to be
paid 16.9 percent in cash.  
 Based in Manassas, Virginia, EnviroSolutions had a $29.3
million net loss in 2009 on revenue of $134 million. It operates
in the mid-Atlantic states and the Northeast.  
 The case is In re EnviroSolutions of New York LLC, 10-
11236, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Penn Traffic Files Liquidating Plan with Committee OK  
 Former supermarket operator  Penn Traffic Co . filed a
liquidating Chapter 11 plan on June 15 along with an explanatory
disclosure statement. The official creditors’ committee supports
the plan and urges creditors to vote “yes.”  
 The current draft of the disclosure statement has blanks
where unsecured creditors will be told the percentage
distribution they can expect. Secured creditors are to be paid
in full.  
 At a hearing yesterday, the bankruptcy judge approved a
bonus plan covering 20 executives and other employees that would
cost a maximum of $315,000. The judge modified the program so
one executive’s bonus is on a sliding scale depending on how
much is collected in accounts receivable.  
 The judge yesterday approved a second settlement where Penn
Traffic will pay Hilco Merchant Resources LLC $50,000 in
settlement of a dispute over a $300,000 breakup fee. For
background on the Hilco dispute, click here to see the May 13
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Tops Markets LLC purchased almost all of Penn Traffic’s
stores as a going concern by paying $85 million cash. The sale
was structured so Penn Traffic avoided a $72 million claim for
pension plan termination and a $27 million claim by the
principal supplier.  
 Penn Traffic filed under Chapter 11 again in November for
the express purpose of selling the business. The petition listed
assets of $150 million against debt totaling $137 million. Based
in Syracuse, New York, Penn Traffic was in Chapter 11 twice
before. Debt at the outset of the newest bankruptcy included
$63.2 million owing to secured creditors, including $41.8
million to General Electric Capital Corp. on a senior secured
facility and $10 million on a supplemental real estate credit
with Kimco Capital Corp. serving as agent.  
 Penn Traffic operated stores in Pennsylvania, upstate New
York, Vermont and New Hampshire using the names BiLo, P&C and
Quality.  
 The case is In re Penn Traffic Co., 09-14078, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Tronox to Extend Reorganization Financing Until September 24  
 Tronox Inc., the world’s third-largest producer of the
white pigment titanium dioxide, is requesting a blessing from
the bankruptcy judge to extend $425 million in financing for the
reorganization to Sept. 24 from June 24.  
 The hearing will be held June 24. Although Tronox is trying
to broker a consensual reorganization plan, it’s taking longer
than expected, the company said. To read about Tronox’s
contemplated stand-alone reorganization plan, click here for the
Jan. 21 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. To read Bloomberg coverage
on the new financing motion, click here.  
 In March, Tronox mostly defeated a motion to dismiss a
lawsuit in bankruptcy court against former parent company Kerr-
McGee Corp. and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp ., which acquired Kerr-
McGee for $18.4 billion in August 2006. If successful, the suit
would recover environmental remediation costs Tronox was given
when spun off from Kerr-McGee in March 2006. To read about the
defendants’ most recent effort to dismiss the suit, click here
for the May 28 Bloomberg Daily bankruptcy report.  
 The Chapter 11 petition by Tronox in January 2009 listed
assets of $1.56 billion against debt totaling $1.22 billion.
Debt includes $213 million on a secured term loan and revolving
credit, $350 million in 9.5 percent senior notes, and a $40.7
million accounts receivable securitization facility.  
 Tronox’s products are used in paints, coatings, plastics,
paper and consumer products. The operations outside of the U.S.
didn’t file.  
 The case is In re  Tronox Inc ., 09-10156, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 No One to Sue, Questex Asks to Dismiss Chapter 11  
 Questex Media Group Inc. sold the assets, can’t find anyone
to sue, and is asking the bankruptcy judge to dismiss the
Chapter 11 case that began in October.  
 Now formally named QMG Winddown Inc., the company sold the
assets in December to first-lien lenders in exchange for $120
million in secured debt and the assumption of $15 million
provided to finance the reorganization.  
 The lenders set aside $500,000 to be used in winding down
the case. The company and the creditors’ committee both say they
performed investigations and didn’t identify any lawsuit worth
filing.  
 There being no funds for making a distribution to
creditors, the company will ask the bankruptcy judge at a July 6
hearing to dismiss the case. Questex previously said it was
considering “all options,” including conversion to liquidation
in Chapter 7, dismissal, or confirmation of a Chapter 11 plan.  
 Newton, Massachusetts-based Questex was a business-to-
business media provider with 150 print and digital publications
plus 28 conferences and trade shows. It generated $129 million
in sales during 2008 and listed assets of $299 million against
debt totaling $321 million.  
 The case is In re QMG Winddown Inc., 09-13423, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Black Crow Beats GECC Again in Dispute Over New Loan  
 Black Crow Media Group LLC , a privately held owner of 22
radio stations, continues coming out on top with secured
creditor General Electric Capital Corp. when it comes to
financing for the reorganization.  
 Black Crow won bankruptcy court approval on May 28 for a
$1.5 million loan, over objection from Stamford, Connecticut-
based GECC, the secured lender owed $38.9 million.  
 GECC appealed the order approving the new financing, only
to find the bankruptcy judge denying a stay pending appeal.  
 GECC went to the U.S. District Court, also seeking a stay.
The district judge on June 14 likewise denied a stay pending
appeal. Without a stay, Black Crow can draw down the loan
despite the appeal that nevertheless may go ahead.  
 Even if approval of the lending is later reversed on
appeal, the loan can’t be set aside under bankruptcy law because
there wasn’t a stay pending appeal.  
 GECC believes the bankruptcy judge improperly made its
existing loan subordinate to the lien securing the new $1.5
million loan.  
 Black Crow filed for Chapter 11 protection in January, two
days before a hearing in U.S. district court where GECC was
seeking appointment of a receiver following default on the term
loans and revolving credit. Black Crow’s stations are in five
markets in Florida, Alabama, Georgia, and Tennessee. In addition
to the GECC debt, there is another $6 million owing to unsecured
creditors. Daytona Beach, Florida-based Black Crow had $12.9
million of revenue in 2009, a 23 percent decline from 2008.  
 The case is In re Black Crow Media Group LLC, 10-00172,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District Florida (Jacksonville).  
 Farkas, Former  Taylor Bean  Chairman, Indicted  
 Lee Farkas, former chairman of Taylor Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp. was arrested yesterday and charged by federal
authorities with running a $1.9 billion fraud at what was once
the largest independent mortgage originator in the U.S.  
 The indictment charges Farkas with concealing mortgage
assets that were worthless or losing value and representing them
as being securitized and sold into the secondary market. The
charges also say that the fraud contributed to the failure of
Colonial BancGroup Inc. and its bank subsidiary by selling
Colonial more than $400 million in fake mortgage assets.  
 Farkas’ lawyer said he isn’t guilty. To read Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  
 Taylor Bean itself is making claims against the company’s
directors’ and officers’ insurance provider, National Union Fire
Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh. Taylor Bean received subpoenas from
the Securities and Exchange Commission and a federal grand jury
in Georgia. Farkas was indicted in Alexandria, Virginia.  
 Taylor Bean’s bankruptcy occurred three weeks after federal
investigators searched the offices of the Ocala, Florida-based
company. The day following the search, the Federal Housing
Administration, Ginnie Mae and  Freddie Mac  prohibited the
company from issuing new mortgages and terminated servicing
rights.  
 Taylor Bean managed an $80 billion mortgage-servicing
portfolio. The petition said assets and debt both exceed $1
billion. After filing under Chapter 11 last August, Taylor Bean
sold 1,046 parcels of repossessed real estate for $81.2 million
to Selene Residential Mortgage Opportunity Fund LP.  
 The case is Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., 09-
07047, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  
 Watch List  
 K-V Pharmaceutical Has Going Concern Qualification  
 K-V Pharmaceutical Co. ceased manufacturing and
distribution of almost all products in January 2009 after
discovery that some tablets were oversized. The company said in
a regulatory filing this week that there is substantial doubt
about its ability to continue as going concern.  
 St. Louis-based K-V hasn’t filed financial statements going
back to the report that should have been filed for the quarter
ended in March 2009.  
 K-V pleaded guilty to two felony counts for failing to
inform regulators about manufacturing problems. It also paid
$27.6 million in fines. The company is being sued by CVS
Pharmacy Inc. for at least $100 million for breach of a supply
contract.  
 K-V’s $200 million in subordinated notes due in 2033 traded
on June 15 at $30.25, down from $35 the prior week. The stock
closed yesterday at $1.14, down 3 cents in trading on the New
York Stock Exchange.  
 New Filing  
 Auto Floor Mat Maker Petty Products Files in Georgia  
 Petty Products LLC , a designer and manufacturer of floor
mats for autos, filed a bare-bones Chapter 11 petition on June
15 in Newnan, Georgia, saying assets are less than $10 million
while debt exceeds $10 million.  
 The website refers to LaGrange, Georgia-based Petty as the
world’s leading floor mat supplier. It has a 200,000 square-foot
facility.  
 The case is In re Petty Products LLC, 10-12286, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District Georgia (Newnan).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Taylor-Wharton Implements Confirmed Reorganization Plan  
 Taylor-Wharton International LLC , a manufacturer of propane
and cryogenic pressure tanks, valves, and gauges, emerged from
reorganization on June 15 by implementing the Chapter 11 plan
that the bankruptcy judge in Delaware approved with a May 26
confirmation order. To read about the plan, which cuts debt in
half, click here for the May 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania-based company was unable to
service debt incurred following acquisition of the business from  Harsco Corp . in November 2007 in a $340 million transaction. At
the outset of Chapter 11, the company had 11 facilities in the
U.S. and six abroad. The company estimated that revenue shrank
to $237 million last year from $404 million in 2008.  
 The case is In re Taylor-Wharton International LLC, 09-
14089, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Texas Rangers, Visteon, Zayat Stables, Loehmann: Audio  
 Texas Rangers , Visteon Corp.,  Zayat Stables LLC , and
retailer Loehmann’s Inc. are the bankruptcy cases covered in the
latest bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        