-- Brazil's Orange Crop to Rise for First Time in Three Years, Producers Say
-- Lucia Kassai
-- 2010-06-17T17:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/brazilian-orange-belt-crop-to-increase-on-weather-cutrale-dreyfus-say.html

          
          
             The Brazilian Orange Belt’s crop,
the world’s largest, may rise for the first year in three in
2011 on drier weather, said  Sucocitrico Cutrale Ltda.  and Louis
Dreyfus & Cie SA, which represent 45 percent of global output.  
 The harvest may rise as much as 17 percent to about 336
million 90-pound boxes next year, Carlos Viacava, corporate
director at Cutrale, which makes three out of every 10 glasses
of orange juice consumed, said yesterday in an interview in Sao
Paulo. Louis Dreyfus, the world’s No. 4 producer, expects a rise
of about 11 percent to 310 million boxes,  Kenneth Geld , head of
the company’s citrus business, also said in an interview.  
 Orange-juice futures have jumped 12 percent in New York
this year on speculation of a lower crop in Florida and Brazil.
Cutrale said in May this year’s crop in Brazil would be the
lowest in seven years because of rains, which hurt flowering.
Prices may decline in coming months once the hurricane season
threatening the crop in Florida ends, Viacava said.  
 “Prices are very expensive,” Viacava, 69, said at his
office in Sao Paulo. “These prices will go down.”  
 Orange-juice futures for September delivery fell 0.10 cent,
or 0.1 percent, to $1.4450 a pound at 12:40 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York. Futures will likely hover near current levels
in the next few months because of this year’s reduced supplies
and the risk of hurricanes hurting trees, according to Viacava.  
 Rising Costs  
 Rising production costs in Brazil may also limit price
declines, Geld also said in Sao Paulo. Production in Brazil
currently costs about $1.55 per pound and is sold at about $1.9
per pound in Europe, he said.  
 Costs have risen about 30 percent in the last five years on
higher labor expenses in Brazil and the spread of citrus
greening, a bacterial disease that kills the trees, Geld said.  
 Brazilian producers will harvest 286 million boxes, the
lowest since 2003, in the states of Sao Paulo, part of Minas
Gerais and Parana this year, Viacava said last month. Brazil
produced 281 million boxes in 2003. According to Cutrale, next
year’s harvest could be the highest since 2007, when the Latin
American nation produced 358 million boxes.  
 Futures dropped for the first time in four sessions in New
York June 15 on the diminishing threat to Florida’s citrus crop
from hurricanes. A low pressure system in the mid-Atlantic
probably won’t develop into this season’s first tropical storm,
the U.S. National Hurricane Center said. Florida is the world’s
largest orange producer after Brazil.  
 Prices Will Swing  
 “Prices will swing along with news about the hurricane
season,” Viacava, himself a citrus grower, said.  
 Cutrale, based in Araraquara, Brazil, was founded by
Italian immigrant Giuseppe Cutrale, who used to sell oranges in
a street market in Sao Paulo and later decided to export fresh
fruits to Europe. A privately held company, it owns orange
groves and processing plants in Florida and Sao Paulo and port
terminals in Europe and Asia. It supplies orange juice to
McDonald’s Corp. and Coca-Cola’s Minute Maid.  
 Louis Dreyfus & Cie SA, based in Paris, accounts for more
than 15 percent of global production, according to its website.
The company, with facilities in Florida and Brazil, produces
about 83 million boxes of oranges and 330,000 tons of juice a
year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
 Carlos Caminada  in Sao Paulo at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Brazil's orange crop rise on weather  
                       
                         
                           Jean Pierre Pingoud/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An orange picker works in an orange grove near Sao Paolo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An orange picker works in an orange grove near Sao Paolo. Photographer: Jean Pierre Pingoud/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
