-- Brazil 2019 Bond Yield Gap Narrowing to Barclays as Europe Concern Wanes
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-06-17T21:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/brazil-2019-bond-yield-gap-narrowing-to-barclays-as-europe-concern-wanes.html

          
          
             Waning concern about debt defaults
in Europe is starting to be reflected in the relative prices of
Brazil’s government bonds.  
 The gap between yields on Brazilian 8.875 percent notes due
2019 that were sold in 2004 and its 5.875 percent securities
issued in 2009 and that mature that same year narrowed to 22
basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, from 26 at the start of
this month. The so-called spread, which reached the widest point
since November, averaged 14 this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Credit-rating downgrades in Greece, Spain and Italy eroded
demand for Brazil’s less-traded 8.875 percent notes as investors
sought securities they could sell more easily. Now that a 750
billion euro ($930 billion) bailout package for the region is
shoring up confidence in the global economic recovery, the gap
between the two bonds will shrink to about 10 basis points as
financial markets rebound, according to Barclays Plc.  
 “Brazil is going to benefit from increased flows with the
re-assessment of risk aversion,” said  Kathryn Rooney Vera , a
strategist at Bulltick Securities Corp., a Miami-based brokerage
with offices in four Latin American countries.  
 Investors wanted “to be in the most liquid names so they
can exit them quickly because this is a time of volatility,”
Rooney said in a phone interview. “Since they’re the same
maturity, the difference is only by a few months, there
shouldn’t be much of a spread differential between the two.”  
 Trading Disparity  
 The yield on the $1.3 billion of 8.875 percent notes has
dropped one basis point since mid-April to 4.78 percent as its
price fell 0.35 cent on the dollar to 130.50 cents, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the $2.3 billion of
5.875 percent notes dropped seven basis points to a six-month
low of 4.57 percent as its price climbed 0.41 cent to 109.20
cents.  
 Trading in the newer securities totaled $1.98 billion in
the first quarter, more than 10 times the $187 million traded of
the older issue, according to the  Emerging Markets Trading
Association  in New York.  
 “Liquidity tends to be around bonds that are newly issued
with the price of the bonds close to par,” said  Donato Guarino ,
an analyst at Barclays in New York. “In moments when risk
aversion is higher, investors feel more comfortable owning
liquid bonds.”  
 Buyback Program  
 European Union officials last month agreed on an
unprecedented 750 billion-euro rescue package for distressed
nations after a separate 110 billion-euro lifeline for Greece
failed to contain the debt crisis and shore up the euro. The
region’s finance ministers last week agreed on the structure of
a 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility, the
main part of the bailout plan.  
 The European Union and International Monetary Fund agreed
last month to provide 110 billion euros of aid to Greece as the
country struggled to control a  deficit  that reached 13.6 percent
of gross domestic product last year. They also set up a
financial lifeline to backstop the region and defend the
currency prompting the riskiest nations to agree to ‘austerity
measures that include painful deficit cuts.  
 Brazil may buy back the 8.875 percent bonds in a program
that retires less-traded securities, Deputy Treasury Secretary
 Paulo Valle  said in a telephone interview from Brasilia
yesterday. The government had reduced the amount outstanding by
$152 million as of March, according to the Treasury.  
 The 5.875 percent notes aren’t a repurchase target because
“they have enough volume and liquidity,” Valle said.  
 ‘Brief Distortion’  
 The yield premium on Brazilian dollar government bonds over
U.S. Treasuries has narrowed 22 basis points to 229 since
touching a nine-month high of 251 on June 8, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index. The spread rose five basis
points today.  
 The cost of protecting the nation’s debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps fell three
basis points to 131, according to data compiled by CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  
 The real strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.7802 per dollar.
It’s appreciated 2.3 percent this month, following a 4.5 percent
slide in May. The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures
contract due in January, the most active in Sao Paulo trading,
rose seven basis points to 11.27 percent. That rate shows
traders expect policy makers will boost the rate to about 12
percent by year-end, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The 2019 bonds are Brazil’s only two dollar securities
maturing the same year and offering different rates, according
to Barclays.  
 “This is a brief distortion that occurred,”  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income research at
IDEAglobal, said in a phone interview from New York. “If we see
some sort of reversal, the spread should change. At some point,
it will narrow.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Brazil 2019 bond gap narrowing to Barclays  
                       
                         
                           Doug Kanter/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Brazil's deputy treasury secretary Paulo Valle. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Brazil's deputy treasury secretary Paulo Valle. Photographer: Doug Kanter/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
