-- Bovespa Index Declines on U.S. Unemployment, Speculation of Higher Rates
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-06-17T18:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/brazil-s-bovespa-stock-index-futures-advance-as-europe-debt-concern-wanes.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index dropped
for the first time in three days on speculation rising U.S.
jobless claims will stall the global economic recovery,
offsetting speculation Europe’s debt crisis will ease.  
 Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron ore miner, sank 1.2
percent as metals prices dropped.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  slid
after a director at Fitch Ratings Ltd. said Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company is more likely to get a rating downgrade
than an upgrade. Telemar Norte Leste SA, Brazil’s biggest fixed-
line phone company, tumbled for a second day after Brasil
Telecom SA minority shareholders rejected the price of a share-
swap offer.  
 “The market’s been very nervous lately, so it reacts
quickly to anything that is perceived to be negative,” said
 Milton Milioni , president of MM Milioni Investimentos in Sao
Paulo. “Higher interest rates and slowing growth surely fit
that category.”  
 The Bovespa fell 0.1 percent to 64,665.44 at 2:09 p.m. New
York time. Thirty-six stocks fell on the index, while 29 rose.
The real climbed 0.4 percent to 1.7796 per dollar, from 1.7873
yesterday.  
 Initial jobless claims in the U.S. rose by 12,000 to
472,000 last week, figures from the Labor Department showed
today in Washington. The median expectation of a Bloomberg
survey of economists was for a decline to 450,000. The U.S. is
Brazil’s second-biggest trade partner.  
 Inflation Concern  
 Spain today sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of bonds,
the maximum set for the auction, easing concern that it will
struggle to finance looming debt maturities. The nation sold 3
billion euros of 10-year debt at an average yield of 4.864
percent, less than the 5.04 percent that the bonds traded at
today before the sale. Demand was 1.89 times the amount on
offer.  
 Copper led a drop in metals prices on concern a report may
signal an uneven economic rebound in the U.S., the world’s
second-biggest consumer of the metal. Vale fell 1.2 percent to
41.30 reais.  
 Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contracts rose to
the highest level in almost 16 months after minutes of the
central bank’s monetary policy committee meeting boosted
speculation that borrowing costs will rise.  
 The central bank sees “continued deterioration in the
dynamics of inflation,” according to the minutes of the June 9
meeting released today.  
 Petrobras Drops  
 The central bank raised its Selic rate 0.75 percentage
point for a second consecutive time at its June 9 meeting. The
yield on futures implies traders expect the central bank to
increase the benchmark interest rate by 0.75 percentage point
for a third consecutive time when policy makers meet in July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Petrobras fell 0.5 percent to 29.50 reais.  
 “The probability of a positive rating action is lower than
a negative rating action,” said  Jose Luis Villanueva , a
director at Fitch Ratings Ltd.  
 Brazil’s Senate approved rules this month that give
Petrobras a minimum 30 percent stake in all new oil projects in
the so-called pre-salt region of the South Atlantic. Previously
foreign oil companies competed with Petrobras in licensing
rounds, and companies including Chevron Corp., Exxon Mobil Corp.
and Repsol YPF SA operate deepwater projects in Brazil.  
 Preferred shares of Telemar, known as Oi, slid 3.3 percent
to 50.29 reais. Investors turned down the deal yesterday after
Oi, which bought control of Brasil Telecom last year, cut the
proposed swap ratio by about 21 percent, saying its rival had
higher-than-estimated legal liabilities.  
 The Bovespa index  trades  for 12.1 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 11.8 times for the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index  of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.4
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 13.7 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        