-- Brazil's Central Bank Sees Inflation Worsening on `Robust' Domestic Demand
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-06-17T14:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/brazil-s-central-bank-minutes-says-inflation-is-worsening-at-slower-pace.html

          
          
             Brazil’s central bank said the
outlook for inflation has worsened as domestic demand remains
robust, exhausting idle capacity. Interest rate futures jumped.  
 Policy makers forecast, in both their market and reference
scenarios, that 2010 inflation will remain “markedly” above
its 4.5 percent target, according the minutes of their June 8-9
meeting posted today on the central bank’s website.  
 The withdrawal of fiscal and monetary stimulus in recent
months and the European debt crisis have yet to help policy
makers’ efforts to bring inflation back to target,  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil, said. The
minutes signal that the central bank will continue to raise
interest rates, as in the past two meetings, by 75 basis points
in July, Padovani said.  
 “The bottom line is the central bank still has work to
do,”  Marcelo Carvalho , Morgan Stanley’s chief economist in Sao
Paulo, said in a phone interview. “On the domestic drivers,
they sound hawkish, in the sense of pointing out that there is
little slack left in the economy, and that inflation trends are
more than just seasonal, one-off effects”  
 The yield on interest-rate futures contract due in January,
the most traded on Sao Paulo’s BM&F exchange, jumped to the
highest since February 2009 after the minutes were published,
before paring gains. At 9:27 a.m. New York time, the yield was
up six basis points to 11.26 percent.  
 ‘Risks’  
 At the bank’s meeting last week, the eight-member policy
committee decided unanimously to raise the benchmark rate to
10.25 percent from 9.50 percent in an effort to bring  inflation 
back to target. It was the bank’s second consecutive 0.75
percentage-point increase, after policy makers kept the
overnight rate at a record low 8.75 percent for nine months.  
 “The risks for the consolidation of a benign inflationary
outlook are essentially circumvented by the domestic situation,
and are derived, for example, from the expansion of domestic
demand in a context of virtual exhaustion of idle capacity,”
the bank said, according to the minutes.  
 The bank said the crisis in Europe is “an important part
of the context’’ that will be evaluated when making future rate
decisions.  
 The government is scaling back measures implemented during
the global credit crunch as it seeks to slow the pace of
 economic expansion , which quickened to the fastest pace in 15
years in the first quarter, when gross domestic product grew 9
percent from the same period a year earlier.  
 Economists forecast that policy makers will raise the Selic
rate by an additional 0.75 percentage point in July and will
push it to 12 percent by the end of January 2011, a central bank
 survey  of about 100 analysts published this week shows. The
economy will expand 6.99 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in
more than two decades, the same survey shows.  
 The real gained 0.3 percent to 1.7812 per U.S. dollar at
9:42 a.m. New York time from 1.7873 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani Costa  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        