-- Broad, Bloomberg Back Buffett Call for Billionaire Donations
-- Katya Kazakina
-- 2010-06-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/broad-commits-75-of-wealth-to-charity-takes-buffett-up-on-giving-pledge.html

          
          
             Eli Broad  and New York City Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  backed an initiative started by fellow
billionaires  Warren Buffett  and Bill and  Melinda Gates  for rich
Americans to give at least half of their wealth to charity.  
 Broad, former chairman of insurer SunAmerica Inc. and
founder of homebuilder KB Home, joined his wife, Edythe,
yesterday in pledging to give 75 percent of their wealth to
philanthropic causes. Buffett, the world’s third-richest person
and chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , said he is pressing
“hundreds of rich Americans” to make similar pledges.  
 “We agree with  Andrew Carnegie ’s wisdom that ‘the man who
dies rich, dies disgraced,’” Eli and Edythe Broad said in a
statement. “Philanthropy is unbelievably rewarding, and we hope
others will also realize the benefits of being active, engaged
philanthropists.”  
 Buffett, 79, and the Gateses have been assembling
billionaires at private meetings to drum up support for their
challenge, which they call “The Giving Pledge.” They got the
idea during three dinners with other philanthropists, he told
 Charlie Rose  in an interview.  
 “I asked each either couple or individual to sort of give
a story of the evolution of their own philanthropic thinking,”
he said, according to a transcript. “It was incredible because
it was probably two hours to get around that table” as people
got excited about their ideas and those of others, he said.  
 ‘Check to the Undertaker’  
 Buffett has promised to donate more than 99 percent of his
wealth. The greatest part of his fortune, estimated in March at
$47 billion by  Forbes Magazine , is being provided in annual
installments to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.  
 Bill Gates , 54, the co-founder of Microsoft Corp., is the
world’s second-richest person. The Gates Foundation’s goals
include the reduction of poverty and disease and the improvement
of U.S. education.  
 The pledge “is a fantastic idea,” Bloomberg said in a
statement yesterday. “I am a big believer in giving it all away
and have always said that the best financial planning ends with
bouncing the check to the undertaker.”  
 The drive has attracted the interest of former Cisco
Systems Inc. Chairman  John Morgridge  and Tashia Morgridge,
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers partner  John Doerr  and Ann
Doerr, and Pennsylvania philanthropist H.F. “Gerry” Lenfest
and Marguerite Lenfest, said  Patty Stonesifer , who has advised
on the initiative.  
 Bloomberg, 68, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, has a net worth estimated by Forbes in
March at $18 billion, ranking him 23rd on its list of world
billionaires. Broad, 77, has a net worth estimated at $5.7
billion, ranking him 132nd on the list.  
 The Broad Foundations have invested more than $2 billion
in education, scientific and medical research and the arts.
Their largest commitment has been $600 million to establish the
Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, according to the statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Billionaire Eli Broad  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Eli Broad, the billionaire co-founder of homebuilder KB Home, in an interview in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Eli Broad, the billionaire co-founder of homebuilder KB Home, in an interview in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg  
                       
                         
                           Olivier Douliery/Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg attends the White House Correspondents' Association dinner in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg attends the White House Correspondents' Association dinner in Washington. Photographer: Olivier Douliery/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett  
                       
                         
                           Peter Foley/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett prepares for a television interview in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett prepares for a television interview in New York. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
