-- BSkyB Investors Fight to Raise Murdoch's `Full' Offer
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-06-18T07:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bskyb-investors-vow-fight-to-boost-murdoch-s-bid-to-minimum-800p-a-share.html

          
          
             Rupert Murdoch’s   News Corp . says
the 7.8 billion-pound ($11.6 billion) bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Plc  is “full and fair.” Investors and analysts
say even a 14 percent increase would be the “bare minimum.”  
 BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator, this week
rejected the 700 pence a share offer and said it wanted at
least 800 pence. Faced with pressure from News Corp. to buy the
61 percent it doesn’t already own,  investors  should fight for a
higher bid, said  David Stewart , chief executive officer at Odey
Asset Management in London  
 “The Murdochs share the same belief as we do, that there
is significant cash flow to be generated from this company and
that cash flow isn’t yet reflected in the price,” Stewart
said. Odey owns about 3 percent of BSkyB shares, he said.  
 BSkyB’s independent directors, led by  Nicholas Ferguson ,
chairman of SVG Capital, said they may accept an offer of more
than 800 pence a share. There is a “significant gap” between
News Corp.’s proposal and the value of the company, Ferguson
said this week.  
 Analysts  at Citigroup Inc., Investec, Macquarie
Securities, Numis Securities, Sanford C. Bernstein and Singer
Capital Markets named figures between 750 pence to 860 pence as
a potentially acceptable price per share for shareholders.  
 ‘Bare Minimum’  
 “Investors will stick to their guns on 800 pence,” said
Singer Capital Markets analyst  Johnathan Barrett . “It very
much is a bare minimum; I think we’d really want a chunk more
than that.”  
 News Corp.’s offer of 700p was 17 percent more than
 BSkyB’s closing price  on June 14, the day before the bid was
announced.  
 The  shares , which climbed as high as 1,660 pence in March
2000, were unchanged at 699 pence at 8.38 a.m. in London today.  
 The value of News Corp.’s BSkyB holding has more than
doubled since the London-based company’s initial public
offering on Dec. 8, 1994. The shares have also outperformed
those of News Corp., which dropped by about a fifth in the last
five years. In contrast, BSkyB shares rose 18 percent, not
including the gain after News Corp.’s offer.  
 BSkyB said its  free cash flow  increased 17 percent to 310
million pounds in the nine months ended March 31.  
 In contrast to News Corp’s “full and fair price,” BSkyB
should be valued at a multiple of between 11 and 12 times the
company’s estimated full-year earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization in 2011, Singer’s Barrett said.
News Corp. would therefore need to bid between 785 and 860
pence, he said.  
 Murdoch’s Strategy  
 “It’s got a very high level of visibility, because of its
subscription base,” he said. “You know there’s going to be
growth next year already.”  
 The bid for the remainder of BSkyB reflects Murdoch’s
ambitions to generate more money from subscriptions at a time
when many newspapers, magazines and TV shows are free online
and films and music can easily be downloaded illegally. News
Corp., which already charges for online access to The Wall
Street Journal, will also begin charging for the websites of
U.K. newspapers The Times and The Sunday Times this month.  
 BSkyB will give its independent directors the final
recommendation on the offer because four out of BSkyB’s 14
board members are linked to News Corp., including Chairman
 James Murdoch . A committee compromising the independent
directors and the management will exercise “all powers of the
board in relation to the possible offer and any matters”
relevant to the proposal, the company said.  
 ‘Opening Shots’  
 BSkyB’s valuation may stay the same while News Corp. seeks
regulatory approval before a formal bid, said  Guy Peddy , an
analyst at Macquarie Securities in London.  
 “We aren’t in an environment of bidding for any more
football rights,” Peddy said. “We have a relatively clean
window before any potential events come along that that can
cause a recalculation of the valuation.”  
 BSkyB agreed to pay 1.62 billion pounds last year to show
most live Premier League soccer matches between 2010 and 2013.  
 The European Union and Britain’s antitrust regulator may
probe News Corp.’s proposed acquisition on antitrust concerns,
while U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  can also intervene on
behalf of the public, lawyers have said.  
 News Corp. said it will take at least six months to win
clearance for the takeover.  
 “These are just the opening shots of a negotiation that
could take several months,” said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein. “We think that News Corp. should be
eager to do a deal as the current stake ownership does not
provide either for efficient access to the cash generated by
BSkyB or for consolidation of its results.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A woman pushes the "play" button on a Sky Plus HD box. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
