-- Bulgarian Parliament Approves Budget Changes in First Reading Before Probe
-- Elizabeth Konstantinova
-- 2010-06-17T11:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/bulgarian-parliament-approves-budget-changes-in-first-reading-before-probe.html

          
          
             Bulgaria’s parliament approved
 budget  revisions in a first reading before the  European
Commission  sends a mission to investigate the Balkan nation’s
public finances.  
 Lawmakers in Sofia voted 120-51 in favor of the changes,
which envisage an increase in the deficit to 3.8 percent of
gross domestic product from an originally planned 0.8 percent, a
vote count from legislature today showed. The move will help
account for a revenue shortfall of 2 billion lev ($1.3 billion),
or 2.9 percent, Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov  said.  
 The revenue gap was caused by “a decline in demand,
imports and corporate profits,” Djankov told parliament before
the vote. “At the same time, social spending has increased as
the labor market’s stagnation continues.”  
 The Brussels-based commission, the European Union’s
executive arm, said on June 9 it has “doubts about the
methodology” of calculations, which lead to sharp forecast
fluctuations. The commission forecast Bulgaria’s budget gap at
2.8 percent of GDP this year. Djankov will meet EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  on June 21 to provide
details about Bulgaria’s budget plans.  
 The changes will take effect on July 1 if approved in a
second and final item-by-item vote.  
 Fiscal Crisis  
 The EU’s concern about Bulgaria’s budget comes as the bloc
is struggling to defuse a fiscal crisis that threatens to break
up the euro region. European bonds and the euro have been
sliding since the Greek government, citing accounting mistakes,
revised its deficit, raising concern about its solvency. A
further 16 EU countries have revised their budgets so far,
Djankov said.  
 Greece has cut spending, raised taxes and trimmed wages and
pensions to tackle a budget shortfall of 13.6 percent of gross
domestic product in 2009, more than four times the EU limit.  
 The Bulgarian government envisages  economic  growth of 1
percent this year, driven by exports and is committed to keeping
income taxes the lowest in the European Union at 10 percent,
Djankov said. The economy contracted 5.1 percent in 2009.  
 The budget changes will allow some 700 million lev of
spending on road construction projects partly backed by the EU,
health care, social benefits, payments to tobacco growers and
railway subsidies, Djankov said. A 20 percent cut in
administration costs will release further funds, he said.  
 The government raised the limit of additional  debt  it may
issue to 2 billion lev from previously planned 1.2 billion lev
and set a ceiling of 3.5 billion lev for total payments on new
debt for this year, Djankov said.  
 The Cabinet also plans to spend part of its fiscal
reserves, reducing them to 4.5 billion lev from 6.3 billion lev,
Djankov said. The move won’t endanger Bulgaria’s lev-euro peg
and the currency board as the reserves will fall to their 2005
level, Djankov said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        