-- Chile May Increase Debt Sale, Tap More Savings for Earthquake Rebuilding
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-06-17T18:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/chile-may-increase-debt-sale-tap-more-savings-for-earthquake-rebuilding.html

          
          
             Chile’s government may sell more
bonds or increase its use of fiscal savings to finance
earthquake reconstruction if Congress rejects a proposal to
change mining royalties, Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said.  
 President  Sebastian Pinera ’s government plans to raise $600
million to $700 million by introducing a sliding tax rate on
mining company profits to help repair damage from February’s
quake. The Senate yesterday rejected the proposal, which likely
will be debated in a joint committee of Congress.  
 The royalty changes are part of the government’s plan to
raise $8.4 billion through a series of measures that includes
tapping overseas debt markets for the first time in six years
and offshore copper savings. Larrain will have to turn to other
“less than optimal” funding options if the royalty proposal is
ultimately dismissed, he said.  
 “This forces us to take more from the sovereign wealth
fund or incur more debt,” he told reporters in Santiago today.  
 Larrain said April 23 in New York that Chile plans to sell
$1.5 billion worth of 10-year dollar and peso bonds abroad this
year. The South American country may sell as much as $3 billion
of bonds and warrants, according to a June 15 filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 An 8.8-magnitude earthquake on Feb. 27 smashed ports, roads
and factories across an area of the country responsible for 17
percent of gross domestic product, resulting in an estimated $30
billion in damage and losses.  
 The government is optimistic that the joint committee can
reach an agreement on mining royalties, Larrain said.  
 The Senate is debating individual articles in the financing
bill after approving the package in general June 9.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randall Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        