-- China's `Express Train' Economy to Sustain Pace of Growth, Aberdeen Says
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-06-17T01:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/china-s-express-train-economy-to-sustain-pace-of-growth-aberdeen-says.html

          
          
             China’s economy is like a “runaway
express train” and may sustain its pace of growth amid the
nation’s tightening measures and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis,
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc said.  
 The Conference Board said June 15 a leading economic
indicator for China gained the most in 14 months, reports last
week showed a surge in exports, industrial production and  retail
sales  that signaled strength in the world’s fastest-growing
major economy. The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.4 percent as
of 9:42 a.m. after a three-day holiday.  
 The  MSCI World Index  rose 2.6 percent this week, trimming
its losses this year to 5.1 percent, as the Chinese leading
indicator and gauges tracking New York manufacturing and U.S.
consumer confidence helped overshadow a downgrade in Greece’s
debt rating by Moody’s Investors Service to junk status. The
 Shanghai Composite  has fallen 21 percent this year, Asia’s worst
performer.  
 “The Chinese economy is a little bit like a runaway
express train,”  Peter Elston , a Singapore-based strategist at
Aberdeen Asset, said in an interview yesterday. “Even if the
West does go through some sort of relapse, I do see China being
able to maintain some sort of momentum simply because it has the
capital domestically that’s needed to supply its economy.”  
 While the “weakness” in Europe and a possible slowdown in
the U.S. may affect China’s exports, the  nation’s economy  is now
less dependent on overseas shipments, according to Elston. The
European crisis also suggests that there’s less reason for
China’s government to continue tightening measures even amid
“signs of overheating” in the nation’s economy, he said.  
 Best-Performing Economy  
 The Conference Board’s measure for the Chinese economy
gained 1.7 percent to 147.1 in April, compared with a revised
1.2 percent increase in March. China is among the world’s best-
performing economies, according to Bill Adams, resident
economist for the New York-based research organization.  
 Foreign direct investment  in the country rose 27.5 percent
to $8.13 billion in May, advancing for a 10th month in May, the
Ministry of Commerce said on June 12. That’s more than the 23.2
percent median forecast of four economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  
 The economy is unlikely to suffer a “double dip” in its
growth rate as the government maintains its moderately loose
monetary policies,  Ma Jiantang , head of the National Bureau of
Statistics, said in an event in London yesterday. “I personally
think there’s very little chance China’s economy will have a
double dip,” Ma said. “Double dip means the economy will go
back to the lowest growth rate last year of 6.2 percent.”  
 Growing Credit Risks  
 China’s banking regulator said this week it sees growing
credit risks in the nation’s real-estate industry and warned of
increasing pressure from non-performing loans. Risks associated
with home mortgages are rising and a “chain effect” may
reappear in real-estate development loans, the China Banking
Regulatory Commission said in its annual report on June 15.  
 The “bubble” in China’s property market is going to burst
very quickly, with prices set to fall as much as 20 percent in
the next 12 to 18 months, Nomura Holdings Inc. economist  Sun Mingchun  said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.
Real-estate prices jumped 12.4 percent across 70 cities in May,
adding to the 12.8 percent record surge in April.  
 Hottest Housing Market  
 China overtook Hong Kong as the world’s hottest housing
market in the first quarter, with prices rising at more than
double the rate of anywhere else, property adviser  Knight Frank
LLP said . Values soared 68 percent in China’s main cities from a
year earlier, according to a global index compiled by the
London-based broker. Gains for Hong Kong, India, Singapore,
Australia, Malaysia and Indonesia helped lift average prices in
the Asia-Pacific region by almost 18 percent.  
 The Shanghai Composite is  valued  at 15 times estimated
profits, down from 24 times at the start of the year, according
to data tracked by Bloomberg. A gauge of property shares on the
Shanghai Composite slumped the most among five industry groups
this year, falling 28 percent as policy makers imposed curbs
ranging from a ban on loans for third-home purchases to higher
mortgages and downpayments for second homes.  
 While the drop in stocks means valuations in China have
become “reasonable,” Elston said Aberdeen, which oversees
about $259 billion globally, doesn’t hold any property or bank
stocks in China.  
 Scotland’s biggest fund company instead owns shares of
 PetroChina Co.  and  China Mobile Ltd. , as well as Hong Kong-based
companies that do business in China, according to Elston.  
 “We do think over the longer term, China will be an
interesting place to invest,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Consumers walk through a department store in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
