-- China May Buy Over 1 Million Tons of Corn in 18 Months, U.S. Council Says
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-06-17T08:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/china-may-buy-more-than-1-million-tons-corn-in-18-months-council-says.html

          
          
             China, the world’s second-largest
corn consumer, may buy in excess of 1 million metric tons in the
next 18 months, the U.S. Grains Council said. That would more 
than double the amount bought from the U.S. since April.  
 “In six to 18 months, the Chinese will undoubtedly take
more than a million tons of corn and I wouldn’t be surprised to
see it be in fact double that amount,” as the nation’s economic
growth boosts demand for meat and feed grains, said  Thomas Dorr ,
president of the council.  
 China has purchased at least 715,000 tons of corn for
delivery by Aug. 31, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture
data. China, a net corn exporter until last year, hadn’t bought
any U.S. corn until April, when the USDA announced its purchase
of 115,000 tons, the first since at least January 2009,
according to the agency’s data.  
 Rising  imports  by China may help drain excess supply,
ending an 8.8 percent slump in Chicago futures this year. The
contract for December delivery advanced 0.3 percent to $3.7825 a
bushel in Chicago at 3:55 p.m. Singapore time. China purchased
47,000 tons last year, according to the USDA.  
 The additional purchases “will have a big impact on the
global demand balance for corn,” said  Toshimitsu Kawanabe , an
analyst at Tokyo-based commodity broker Central Shoji Co. “It
may help corn for December delivery test the $4 level.”  
 U.S. Inventories  
 Inventories in the U.S., the largest supplier, will fall to
the lowest level since 2007 on higher demand from ethanol
producers, the USDA said June 10. U.S. stockpiles, forecast to
account for 57 percent of global  exports , may be 1.603 billion
bushels on Aug. 31, as the nation uses more of the grain to make
ethanol, the USDA said.  
 The agency also trimmed its world corn  inventory  at the end
of the 2010-2011 year, by 4.5 percent from last month.  
 “There is evidence that their demand for high-quality
proteins is going to require added energy for livestock rations
and we believe it’s an excellent opportunity for the U.S. to
provide those corn supplies as needed,” Dorr said in a phone
interview from Washington yesterday, referring to China’s corn
needs. Still, he said “I’m certainly not in a position to
definitively say that I know” China’s purchasing plans.  
 The World Bank forecast on June 9 that China’s gross
domestic product will expand 9.5 percent this year, compared
with 3.3 percent for the U.S. and 0.7 percent for the euro
region. The Asian nation’s demand for corn may grow 2 percent to
159 million tons in the 2010-2011 season, from a year earlier,
according to the USDA.  
 Triple USDA Forecast  
 China’s corn imports may be as much as 3 million tons this
year, as it rebuilds stockpiles drained to help cool domestic
prices, said Jay O’Neil, an agricultural economist at the
International Grains Program of Kansas State University. That’s
three times the USDA  forecast  for China’s imports.  
 The area planted to corn in China is at least 2 percent
lower than expected “due to abnormal rains, snow and
temperatures this spring,” the council said on its website last
week, citing its crop tour in the northeast.  
 “We could see imports of close to 2 million to 3 million
tons if the crop situation there deteriorates further,” O’Neil
said in an e-mail yesterday in response to Bloomberg questions.
He raised his estimate for imports from 500,000 tons in April.  
 Weekly Auctions  
 China sold about 4.67 million tons of the grain in weekly
auctions from April 13 through May 25 to cool domestic prices,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Corn futures on the
Dalian Commodity Exchange rose to a two-year high of 1,984 yuan
a ton on May 24 as domestic supplies tightened.  
 “The market is wondering if the crop outlook will motivate
the Chinese government to step in and, via importing, replace
domestic reserve corn stocks that have been released and sold
recently in an attempt to control inflation,” said O’Neil, who
advises the council. He traveled to China with the council in
March to meet local traders and assess the potential for imports.  
 Corn stockpiles in China’s Heilongjiang and Jilin provinces
have slumped more than 15 percent and “supplies show
significant  signs  of degradation,” with as much as 30 percent
of the grain in some storage facilities affected by mold, the
council said last week.  
 Corn supplies in the northeastern Jilin province, China’s
top producer, may be facing damage from mold because of high
temperatures, Sina.com reported on June 10, citing industry
website China Corn.  
 “Moldy corn can be a problem in stored grain since it is
likely” to spread, Mike Callahan, senior director for
international operations at the grains council, said in a
separate e-mail to Bloomberg. “If the mold spores produce
mycotoxins, then this can become a serious issue in certain
livestock species like poultry and swine.”  
 Moldy corn can be used if mixed with better quality corn
and “the negative effects of certain mycotoxins can be somewhat
countered by the use of binding and detoxification products,”
Callahan said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        