-- Stocks May Rebound 15% in China as Banks Curb Share Sales, HSBC's Sun Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-17T03:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/china-s-stocks-may-rally-15-on-fundraising-support-hsbc-strategist-says.html

          
          
             Chinese stocks  may gain 15 percent
in the “coming months” as concerns ease over an oversupply of
shares and the economy withstands Europe’s sovereign debt crisis,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc’s China strategist  Steven Sun .  
 The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  has fallen 22
percent this year, Asia’s worst performer, on the prospect
measures to curb speculation in the property market and widening
deficits from Greece to Spain may slow economic growth. The
measure rallied 80 percent in 2009.  
 “Now is the time to look for 10 to 15 percent rebound in
the coming months” as banks cut the amount of capital they
planned to raise, Sun, Hong Kong-based equity strategist at HSBC,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “The Chinese economy
should continue to grow 9 percent in the second half. We’re not
forecasting a double-dip scenario, given the still robust
exports and imports numbers, and also resilient consumption.”  
 The Conference Board said June 15 a leading economic
indicator for China gained the most in 14 months, while reports
last week showed a surge in exports, industrial production and
retail sales. China is among the world’s best-performing
economies, according to Bill Adams, resident economist for the
New York-based research organization.  
 The nation’s economy is like a “runaway express train”
and may sustain its pace of growth amid the nation’s tightening
measures and Europe’s debt crisis,  Peter Elston , a Singapore-
based strategist at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which
oversees about $259 billion, said in an interview yesterday.  
 Europe Debt  
 Europe’s deficits have undermined investor confidence
and forced governments to step up spending cuts, clouding the
economic outlook. German investor confidence plunged in June on
concern the turmoil will undermine exports and crimp growth in
the region’s biggest economy. Europe is China’s largest export
destination, making up 20 percent of total overseas sales.  
 The slump in equity markets may also curb stock sales, with
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of Communications Co.
likely to raise less than initial estimates.  
 Agricultural Bank, China’s fourth-largest lender by assets,
will sell a 15 percent stake in an initial public offer,
according to its June 4 prospectus. The lender will likely raise
as much as $23.4 billion, or 1.6 times forecast book value,
Industrial Securities Co. estimated in a June 6 report, less
than the $30 billion reported by local media.  
 Bank of Communications , also known as BoCom, said it will
sell 33.07 billion yuan ($4.8 billion) of shares in a rights
offer, about 20 percent less than initially planned.  
 Chinese companies have raised 198 billion yuan
domestically this year, compared with 231 billion yuan for all
of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai,  Rishaad Salamat  in Hong Kong. With
assistance by  Chen Shiyin  in Singapore. Editors:  Allen Wan ,
 Richard Frost   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        