-- China Pension Fund Plans to Increase Investments Abroad, Including Taiwan
-- Chinmei Sung
-- 2010-06-17T05:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/china-s-pension-fund-to-increase-investment-in-unlisted-foreign-companies.html

          
          
             China’s national  pension fund  plans
to increase overseas investments in stocks and bonds, including
securities in Taiwan, to boost  returns  as global markets recover
from the financial crisis.  
 The fund also aims to buy stakes in unlisted companies
abroad, including Taiwanese firms,  Dai Xianglong , chairman of
the National Council for Social Security Fund, said in Taipei
today. He didn’t name targets.  
 “When Taiwan regulations allow, and if there are targets
meeting our conditions, we will start investment,” he said of
potential purchases in private Taiwanese companies. “We will
gradually expand our investment” in overseas markets.  
 Cross-strait ties reached their warmest in 60 years after
President  Ma Ying-jeou  took office in May 2008 and abandoned his
predecessor’s pro-independence stance, and the two sides have
since eased restrictions on investments in each other’s banks,
brokerages and insurance markets. The Chinese pension fund’s
assets expanded by 38 percent last year to 776.5 billion yuan
($113.7 billion), as a rally in the nation’s  stock market 
boosted returns and the government contributed more funding.  
 The pension fund may also form fund management ventures
with Taiwanese partners, Dai said today without providing
details. Ma’s administration has said a trade pact or so-called
Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement, or ECFA, may be signed
by the end of this month.  
 Euro, Dollar  
 The euro will stabilize, Dai said today, as European
governments’ rescue package for Greece eases concerns among
investors. The fund will be “very careful” with overseas
investments, he told reporters in Beijing on May 21, when asked
if the European debt crisis will slow its overseas investments.  
 The U.S. dollar will remain dominant in the global currency
system, although it may weaken over the longer term, Dai said
today. China’s  foreign exchange reserves  face losses due to the
depreciation of the dollar, which likely accounts for more than
60 percent of the nation’s foreign exchange assets, he said in a
June 10 speech in Tianjin, according to a transcript on his
fund’s website posted two days later.  
 The Chinese pension fund’s overseas portfolio accounted for
about 7 percent of its total investments as of the end of 2009,
which compares to a 20 percent maximum it’s allowed to spend
abroad, Dai said today.  
 The fund’s realized investment gains surged 83 percent last
year to 42.7 billion yuan, Xinhua reported in January, as
China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index jumped 80 percent. It
has committed a combined 7.4 billion yuan of investments in five
private-equity funds, Dai told a forum in Beijing May 21.  
 Total assets of the fund may expand to 2 trillion yuan in
2015, Dai said today.  
 -- Chinmei Sung . With assistance from  Zhang Dingmin  in
Beijing. Editors: Janet Ong, Malcolm Scott.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        