-- Colombia Recovers 16 Bodies as Coal-Mine Blast Leaves 72 Workers Trapped
-- Heather Walsh
-- 2010-06-17T21:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/colombia-coal-mine-blast-kills-at-least-eight-workers-leaves-72-trapped.html

          
          
             Colombia said at least 20 workers
are dead and 58 trapped following a coal mine explosion that may
be the nation’s deadliest in more than three decades.  
 The likelihood workers survived last night’s explosion at
the San Fernando mine in northwestern Colombia “isn’t great,”
Antioquia Governor Luis Alfredo Ramos told Radio W. The facility
is near the town of Amaga in the province of Antioquia,
according to Colombia’s presidential website.  
 “It’s critical that we act fast,” Mines Minister  Hernan Martinez  told reporters today in Bogota. “The lack of oxygen,
if there are people alive, could smother them.”  
 The accident may be the most deadly in Colombia since 1977,
when at least 143 people died in a mine disaster, Ramos said.
Every year about 8,000 people die worldwide from coal mining,
Sergei Shatirov, a federal lawmaker for Russia’s Kemerovo
region, said May 17, days after explosions at OAO Raspadskaya’s
Siberian coal mine killed more than 90 people.  
 China accounts for most of global coal mine deaths,
according to Shatirov. The industry employs 9 million workers.  
 An explosion at Massey Energy Co.’s coal mine in West
Virginia on April 5 killed 29 workers, the worst U.S. mine
disaster since 1970, when a Kentucky explosion killed 38 miners.  
 In Colombia, one injured man was taken to a local hospital
after the detonation that triggered a cave-in, according to the
government of Antioquia’s press office.  
 Methane-Gas Trigger?  
 San Fernando mine management may not have sufficiently
measured a buildup in methane gas that caused the explosion,
Minister Martinez said.  
 The Colombian government needs to increase oversight of
mines to ensure the safety of workers, Senator Enrique Velez,
who represents the province of Antioquia, said in an interview.  
 The San Fernando mine produces 240,000 tons a year of coal
to supply the domestic market, Mario Ballesteros, director of
the Colombian Institute of Geology and Mining, said at a press
conference in Bogota. It is owned by a Colombian company, which
he didn’t identify.  
 Colombia is South America’s largest producer of coal and
the world’s fourth-largest coal exporter, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  
 The South American country is the world’s 11th-largest coal
producer, supplying about 1.2 percent of global 2008 output,
according to data on the EIA’s website. Colombia is the second-
largest coal producer in the Western hemisphere after the U.S.,
producing 86.7 million short tons of the power-plant fuel in
2008, according to U.S. Energy Department data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Walsh  in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        