-- Congress Showboaters Revel in Hayward Humiliation: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-06-17T23:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/congress-showboaters-revel-in-hayward-humiliation-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             There are plenty of things you can
fault  BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  for.  
 Inarticulate? Guilty as charged. Indecisive? Certainly. But
no one could deny the man has a certain dogged determination.  
 As he appeared before members of the U.S. House Energy and
Commerce Committee yesterday to testify on the oil spill in the
Gulf of Mexico, he must have known he would have more chance of
walking out of a Stalinist show trial with a full acquittal than
he did of emerging back into the Washington daylight with his
reputation enhanced.  
 By the time the hearing finished, it was clear that no one
was going to emerge with any credit from this undignified
charade. In reality, Hayward should never have agreed to appear
before this posturing lynch mob. The committee members showed
zero interest in getting to the real causes of the environmental
disaster unfolding in the Gulf. Instead they were content to
score cheap points with a domestic political audience.  
 There are real political issues to be debated here. How
dependent should we be on oil? What risks is society prepared to
take to drill for it? How much responsibility for safety rests
with companies, and how much with regulators?  
 The lawmakers weren’t interested in discussing any of that.
All they managed to accomplish was to highlight Hayward’s main
failing: lack of the necessary verve and aplomb to turn the
conversation around.  
 Give Him a Medal  
 In the British Army, they give medals for acts of
exceptional valor. Perhaps they could come up with something
similar for British chief executives willing to do the same
thing -- the Royal Order of Congressional Muggings, perhaps. The
fact that the chairman of the  subcommittee  that held the
hearing, Democrat  Bart Stupak  of Michigan, had promised ahead of
time that Hayward would be “sliced and diced” gave a fair idea
of how balanced the proceedings would be.  
 It was hardly a fair match, and was never intended to be.
It was a setup from the start. The panel facing Hayward was made
up of tough, street-fighting politicians. Each one was
determined to prove live on television just how useless, inept
and dishonest Hayward was. He fought back with all the vigor of
a lettuce caught up in a hurricane.  
 He sat alone, no doubt painfully aware that the sole talent
he has shown since this crisis began was for making embarrassing
gaffes. About the only compensation was that at least his
chairman,  Carl-Henric Svanberg , the man who referred
dismissively to the “small people” affected by the oil spill,
wasn’t at his side. Any blunders that were to be made would at
least be his own.  
 Baby Brother  
 Hayward looked as if he’d rather be just about anywhere
else in the world -- like playing in goal for North Korea as it
took on Brazil in the World Cup. His public persona is hardly
inspiring. Hayward comes across as  Hugh Grant ’s ineffective
younger brother.  Clint Eastwood  might have stood a chance.
Hayward was hardly ever in the game.  
 As the committee members spent more than an hour on
grandstanding opening statements, he glanced nervously from face
to face, his expression suggesting he was trying to work out who
was the good cop. Then an awful thought struck him: There wasn’t
one.  
 It didn’t get any better as the questioning began. Each
lawmaker took turns hitting Hayward over the head. There was no
shortage of weapons to choose from. Internal e-mails were
paraded before us. Hayward’s commitment, on becoming chief
executive, to focus “laser-like” on safety was quoted back a
hundred times. The widows of the men killed in the accident were
cited at length.  
 In the Bunker  
 Hayward retreated into his bunker. He argued that we should
wait for the results of a full investigation and pointed out
that he hadn’t personally managed the rig. But his body language
was that of a beaten man.  
 It was a dismal spectacle. What were the members of
Congress hoping to achieve? An admission by BP that it was
intent on destroying as much of the environment as possible, and
that it planned the spill from the start? The company has
already agreed to set aside $20 billion to pay compensation
claims. The final bill may be much higher. If that doesn’t
persuade it to take safety a lot more seriously in the future,
nothing will.  
 More disturbing is that the subcommittee sidestepped its
duty to ask probing and serious questions. There are lots of
issues arising from the spill that we should be discussing like
grownups.  
 Stoke the Fires  
 But those are all difficult issues. And why bother with
those when you can stoke the populist fires and maybe get your
dismal  job-approval ratings  up a hair.  
 If Hayward had a failing it was his inability to confront
members of Congress with their own deficiencies and those of
America’s energy policies -- such as they are.  
 Hayward is a decent-enough man put in an impossible
position. BP at the moment needs more than decency and
doggedness. Its very survival is at stake. The committee’s
posturing was a disgrace. Yet BP also needs a stronger response.
And very soon it probably will need a new man in charge -- one
who can take the fight back to the company’s critics.  
 ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Matthew Lynn  in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        