-- Corn Climbs in Chicago on Speculation That China May Increase Its Imports
-- Jae Hur
-- 2010-06-17T12:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/corn-climbs-in-chicago-on-speculation-that-china-may-increase-its-imports.html

          
          
             Corn futures climbed in Chicago on
speculation that China, the second-largest consumer of the
grain, may boost imports. Wheat and soybeans gained.  
 Corn for December delivery rose 0.3 percent to $3.7825 a
bushel on the Chicago Board at 2:12 p.m. Paris time, paring a
gain of as much as 1 percent.  
 China may buy more than 1 million metric tons of corn in
the next six to 18 months,  Thomas Dorr , president of the U.S.
Grains Council, said via phone yesterday. Dorr said he
“wouldn’t be surprised” if purchases were double that amount.  
 Additional buying by China “will have a big impact on the
global demand balance for corn,” said  Toshimitsu Kawanabe , an
analyst at Tokyo-based commodity broker Central Shoji Co. “It
may help corn for December delivery test the $4 level.”  
 China, the world’s most populous nation, has bought at
least 715,000 tons of corn for delivery by Aug. 31, according to
U.S. Department of Agriculture data. The country, a net corn
exporter until last year, bought U.S. corn in April, the first
purchase since at least January 2009, USDA data shows.  
 The country may buy more corn in the next 18 months as its
economic growth boosts demand for meat and feed grains, the
grain council’s Dorr said.  
 China Imports  
 China may import as much as 3 million tons of corn this
year as it rebuilds stockpiles drained to help cool domestic
prices, said Jay O’Neil, an agricultural economist at the
International Grains Program of Kansas State University. That’s
three times the USDA  forecast  for China’s imports.  
 The area planted with corn in China is at least 2 percent
smaller than expected “due to abnormal rains, snow and
temperatures this spring,” the council said on its website last
week, citing its crop tour in the northeast.  
 “We could see imports of close to 2 million to 3 million
tons if the crop situation there deteriorates further,” O’Neil
said in an e-mail yesterday in response to Bloomberg questions.
He raised his estimate for imports from 500,000 tons in April.  
 China sold about 4.67 million tons of the grain in weekly
auctions from April 13 through May 25 to cool domestic prices,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Corn futures on the
Dalian Commodity Exchange rose to a two-year high of 1,984 yuan
a ton on May 24 as domestic supplies tightened.  
 “The market is wondering if the crop outlook will motivate
the Chinese government to step in and, via importing, replace
domestic reserve corn stocks that have been released and sold
recently in an attempt to control inflation,” said O’Neil, who
advises the grains council.  
 Wheat for September delivery gained 0.4 percent to $4.785 a
bushel in Chicago. Milling wheat for delivery in November traded
on NYSE Liffe in Paris added 0.2 percent to 140.25 euros
($173.38) a ton.  
 Chicago-traded soybeans for delivery in November added 0.4
percent to $9.28 a bushel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        