-- Current-Account Deficit in U.S. Widened in First Quarter as Imports Rose
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-06-17T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/current-account-deficit-in-u-s-widened-in-first-quarter-as-imports-rose.html

          
          
             The current-account deficit in the
U.S. widened to $109 billion in the first three months of the
year, reflecting a bigger trade shortfall as imports climbed.  
 The  gap  was smaller than the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a revised $100.9 billion
deficit in the fourth quarter 2009 that was smaller than
previously estimated, figures from the Commerce Department showed
today in Washington.  
 The shortfall may keep widening this year as improving
consumer spending pulls in imports, while  exports  slow to
countries affected by the European debt crisis. The drive to
reduce risk during the financial turmoil has prompted global
investors to buy American assets, boosting the  dollar  and helping
the U.S. fund the gap without having to pay higher interest
rates.  
 “Imports are probably going to pick up,” Jay Bryson, a
global economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte,
North Carolina, said before the report. “We’re not at the point
where investors are starting to say: ‘Holy smokes, can the U.S.
finance that trade gap?’ When you look at the major countries of
the world, for all the warts the U.S. economy has, they’re
certainly a lot wartier in Europe and Japan.”  
 Economists forecast the gap, the broadest measure of trade
because it includes transfer payments and investment income,
would widen to $121.9 billion, according to the median of 46
projections in a Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from
$115 billion to $133.7 billion.  
 Rebound from Recession  
 The imbalance grew for the third consecutive period after
reaching a decade-low $84.4 billion in the second quarter of
2009. The narrowing of the gap last year reflected the plunge in
imports as the U.S. sank deeper in the worst recession since the
1930s.  
 The trade deficit, which accounted for most of the current-
account imbalance, grew to $115.3 billion in the first quarter
from $104.7 billion in the fourth. The figures aren’t adjusted
for inflation.  
 Foreign earnings on U.S. assets increased by $933 million to
$121.8 billion in the first quarter from the prior three months.
U.S. income on overseas assets, including wages and compensation,
climbed by $7.6 billion to $163.5 billion.  
 That left a $41.7 billion surplus on income payments, the
biggest since the third quarter of 2008 and up from $35.1 billion
in the previous quarter.  
 Government Tranfers  
 U.S. government payments to foreigners and other private
transfers abroad exceeded official inflows from overseas by $35.5
billion the first three months of the year, compared with $31.3
billion in the fourth quarter.  
 A widening trade gap will likely weigh on growth this year.
The narrower shortfall was a benefit for the economy in most of
2009 and rising exports are still helping U.S. manufacturers.  
 Trade subtracted 0.66 percentage point to economic growth in
the first quarter, according to Commerce Department estimates
released last month. It contributed 0.27 percentage points to
growth in the fourth quarter.  
 Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke last week repeated
his call for lawmakers to come up with a long-term plan to reduce
the  federal budget deficit , which is projected to widen to a
record $1.55 trillion this fiscal year.  
 The current-account gap amounted to 3 percent of gross
domestic product in the first quarter compared with 2.8 percent
in the prior three months, the Commerce Department said today.  
 Reducing Risk  
 Global investors bought a net $83 billion of long-term U.S.
equities, notes and bonds in April, exceeding the median forecast
of economists surveyed which called for a $70 billion increase,
data from the Treasury Department showed June 15. Net purchases
reached a record $140.5 billion in March.  
 Signs of a sustained recovery, as well as a flight from the
financial-market turmoil in Europe, may increase the flow of
investment into the U.S. International investors accumulated
Treasuries for an 11th straight month, the report showed.  
 China remained the biggest foreign investor in U.S.
Treasuries, after its holdings rose by $5 billion in April to
$900.2 billion, according to the Treasury’s statistics. Japan,
the second-largest owner, increased its holdings by $10.6 billion
in April to $795.5 billion.  
 China has kept the yuan pegged to the dollar as a crisis-
fighting policy, swelling its Treasury holdings and fueling
complaints from U.S. lawmakers that it has an unfair advantage in
global commerce.  
 During a visit to Beijing last month, Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner said he’s “as confident as I’ve ever been”
that China has a growing incentive to let its currency gain
against the dollar, and he welcomed President Hu Jintao’s pledge
of steady and gradual changes to the exchange-rate system.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Courtney Schlisserman in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        