-- David Jones Chief Quits After `Unbecoming' Behavior
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-06-18T06:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/david-jones-chief-executive-mcinnes-resigns-after-unbecoming-behaviour-.html

          
          
             Mark McInnes  resigned as chief
executive officer of  David Jones Ltd. , Australia’s second-
largest department store chain, apologizing for “unbecoming”
behavior toward a female colleague.  
 McInnes, 45, quit after the worker complained about his
behavior at two company events.  Paul Zahra , general manager of
the retailer’s  37 stores , will succeed him,  David Jones  said in
a statement. The company’s  shares  fell 0.44 percent in Sydney
trading today after earlier dropping the most in four months.  
 Since assuming the top job in 2003, McInnes entered into
agreements with companies including  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp.  and
 French Connection Group Plc  to attract affluent shoppers. He
shut the unprofitable gourmet food business and cut costs for
getting goods into the stores. The  stock  surged fourfold, making
it the best performing retailer in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 .  
 “He was rated as one of the top business leaders in the
country and was seen as having done a really great job with
David Jones,” said  Cameron Peacock , markets analyst at IG
Markets in Melbourne. “He was popular and he did a good job but
it’s more than one man that makes a company.”  
 David Jones  declined 2 Australian cents to close at A$4.49
in Sydney trading, after earlier sliding as much as 4.7 percent,
the biggest intraday drop since Feb. 5. Larger rival Myer
Holdings Ltd. rose 0.6 percent to A$3.19.  
 The female employee’s complaint stems from McInnes’s
behavior at two company events since late May, said Chairman
 Robert Savage , describing the incidents as “regrettable.”  
 Brand Will Suffer  
 “Clearly, our brand suffers as a result of this,” Savage
told reporters in Sydney.” From the beginning, Mark said to me
how extremely sorry he was about this happening. From very early
in the process he offered his resignation.”  
 Savage said he learned of the complaint last week, and told
McInnes to take leave from Monday. There were no previous
complaints about his behavior, Savage said.  
 McInnes, who emulated the success overseas chains such as
Bloomingdale’s and  Nordstrom  had with international designer
brands, said he “committed serious errors of judgment.”  
 “At two recent company functions I behaved in a manner
unbecoming of the high standard expected of a chief executive
officer,” he said in a statement. He said he has “inexcusably
let down the female staff member. I have also let down my
partner, my family, all my staff, the board and our
shareholders.”  
 McInnes won’t receive any of his contracted incentive
payments, the company said, a sum that Savage said was worth
“several million dollars.” He’ll receive a settlement of A$1.5
million ($1.3 million) and statutory entitlements, such as
accumulated annual leave, worth A$445,000.  
 Short-Term Issue  
 “This is a bit of an issue short term,” said  Paul Xiradis ,
chief executive officer of Ausbil Dexia Ltd.,  David Jones ’s
biggest shareholder with an 8 percent stake. “The
transformation of the  David Jones  brand was something that
McInnes was very involved in.”  
 Still, Xiradis said “fundamentally nothing has changed.”  
 McInnes oversaw an effort to attract richer customers to
 David Jones . At store openings, promotions and Sydney horse
races, he was often photographed next to celebrities including
singers  Delta Goodrem  and  Natalie Imbruglia , and model  Megan Gale , the face of the retailer’s sales campaigns.  
 Miranda Kerr, the partner of actor Orlando Bloom also
models for the chain, appearing in catalogs, fashion shows and
television advertisements.  
 Formal Complaint  
 The female staff member, who  David Jones  didn’t identify,
made a formal complaint to the board about McInnes’s conduct
through a lawyer.  
 “The board has taken and will continue to take steps to
ensure that this complaint is appropriately addressed,”  Savage 
said in the statement.  
 Zahra, who as the new chief executive will also join the
board, has 28 years experience in retail, including the past 12
as part of  David Jones ’s management team.  
 Speaking to reporters, Zahra described the circumstances of
his appointment as “fairly difficult” but said “it’s business
as usual” at the retailer.  
 The company affirmed its  forecast  for second-half  earnings 
to rise as much as 10 percent and said the first two weeks of
its clearance sales have been “pleasing.”  
 McInnes, who worked at David Jones for six years before
becoming chief executive, said he and his partner will be
overseas “for the foreseeable future.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Wellington 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mark McInnes, seen here in Sydney earlier this year, will leave his role and the board immediately. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
