-- De Gaulle's Inclusion in School Curriculum Divides French on Anniversary
-- Gregory Viscusi
-- 2010-06-18T12:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/de-gaulle-s-inclusion-in-school-curriculum-divides-french-on-anniversary.html

          
          
             Seventy years after issuing his
call for France to defy the Vichy collaborationist regime,
 Charles de Gaulle  is again dividing the French.  
 The government of President  Nicolas Sarkozy , whose
political party is descended from the World War II general’s
followers, has included De Gaulle’s wartime memoirs in the
curriculum for next year’s high-school literary classes.
Sarkozy is in London today to commemorate De Gaulle’s June 18,
1940, radio broadcast urging a defeated France not to give up.  
 De Gaulle’s inclusion in the curriculum has sparked
opposition from literature teachers and their unions, who say
that his writings are historical, not literary, and that he’s
too identified with conservative political parties. De Gaulle,
who died in 1970, is revered by almost all French for leading
the resistance to the Nazis and their French collaborators. His
role as president from 1959 to 1969, and as the founder of
France’s main conservative party, remains more divisive.  
 “There’s a political protest by some elements of the
opposition left to a perceived maneuver by Sarkozy’s post-
Gaullists to promote ‘their man’ within the education system,”
Jim Shields, who holds the chair in French at Aston University
in Birmingham, England, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “There’s a legitimate question of whether De
Gaulle’s literary merits qualify him for the national literary
curriculum. I don’t think that De Gaulle’s literary merits can,
or should, be seen in isolation from their historical
context.”  
 Homer, Beckett  
 High-school seniors studying for the literary
baccalaureate next year will read De Gaulle’s “War Memoirs:
Salvation 1944-1946,” the third tome devoted to his war-time
experiences, as well as works by ancient Greek poet Homer,
Irish-French dramatist  Samuel Beckett  and contemporary French
novelist  Pascal Quignard .  
 All French state schools, which are attended by 84 percent
of the country’s school-age kids, follow a curriculum laid down
by the  Ministry of Education .  
 De Gaulle’s inclusion was announced in the government’s
official gazette in January. Teachers union SNES said in a
statement at the time that the choice “creates a confusion
between disciplines” and asked “what is the pertinence of
this choice for literature and ideas?”  
 Political Flattery  
 The issue burst into the public last month when a group of
literature professors started an online petition, saying that
imposing the general’s memoirs in schools “can be seen as a
chance to flatter the political color of the party in power.”
The petition has been signed by 1,622 teachers.  
 This month, a blog on the subject by daily Le Monde’s
literary critic Pierre Assouline spurred 1,228 comments, many
more than his other recent postings.  
 Robert Paxton, a history professor at Columbia University
in New York who has written several books on wartime France,
said De Gaulle is a good choice for the curriculum.  
 “He’s a great classical stylist with a vigorous point of
view, which is exactly what young people should be reading,”
Paxton said in a telephone interview from Cluny, in the
Burgundy region of France. “You can use the same critical
powers on the writings of a politician as on a literary
figure.”  
 Country Retreat  
 De Gaulle wrote his memoirs during a 1950s hiatus from
public service. After leading the Free French forces in World
War II and running France’s provisional government following
the liberation, he grew disillusioned with postwar politics and
retired to his country home. When France’s political order
collapsed in 1958 over Algerian independence, De Gaulle
returned to office, wrote the constitution that still governs
France, and won presidential elections in 1958 and 1965.  
 De Gaulle’s writing wasn’t edited, Paxton said.  
 “His writings have a pungency you wouldn’t get from
something that has been copy edited or ghost written,” Paxton
said. “He used a huge vocabulary, with wonderful turns of
phrase.”  
 Luc Chatel , the education minister, said in an interview
that De Gaulle’s standing as a literary figure is confirmed by
his inclusion in the Bibliotheque de la Pleiade series of great
French works published by Editions Gallimard SA.  
 “I don’t understand the polemic,” he said.  
 Sarkozy Visit  
 In London today, Sarkozy visited the British Broadcasting
 Corp. studios where De Gaulle broadcast messages to occupied
France, laid a wreath at De Gaulle’s London headquarters, and
went with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  to honor veterans.  
 “In his June 18 appeal, De Gaulle spoke for the future,”
Sarkozy said. “He knew that if France exited the war it would
exit history, because history would have been written without
her.”  
 While some conservative politicians, such as Justice
Minister  Michele Alliot-Marie  and former Prime Minister
 Dominique de Villepin , still call themselves “Gaullists,” the
word has little meaning anymore, says  Laurent Dubois , a
professor at Paris’s Institute of Political Studies.  
 “Gaullism is more about nostalgia for when France strove
to have a role in the world,” Dubois said. “But Gaullism is
obsolete with globalization, with the euro, with France being
back in NATO’s military command.”  
 As a political movement, Gaullism refers to an independent
foreign policy, a powerful presidency, and free markets with a
heavy dose of government planning and regulation.  
 Gaullism’s Future  
 A poll in the newspaper  Le Journal du Dimanche  on June 13
said that only 27 percent of the French think Gaullism is
relevant today, while 73 said it was either outdated or no
longer means anything. The Ifop poll questioned 953 people on
June 10 and 11. No margin of error was given.  
 At the same time, a 2005 television poll on  France 2  named
him as the greatest Frenchman of all time. His name adorns
France’s largest airport and an aircraft carrier.  
 Part of the opposition to De Gaulle’s inclusion on the
part of teachers could be that Sarkozy has tried to put his
imprint on school curriculums before.  
 In 2008, he proposed that all school children adopt the
identity of a child killed in the Holocaust, before dropping
the idea after opposition from child psychiatrists and even
concentration-camp survivors.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       De Gaulle's inclusion in curriculum divides French  
                       
                         
                           AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         General Charles de Gaulle during his broadcast 18 June 1940 at the BBC radio headquarters in London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     General Charles de Gaulle during his broadcast 18 June 1940 at the BBC radio headquarters in London. Source: AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nicolas Sarkozy  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, speaks during a news conference at the German federal chancellory in Berlin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, speaks during a news conference at the German federal chancellory in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
