-- Dell Seeks `Transformation' as Stock Slips, Rivals Bulk Up Through Deals
-- Aaron Ricadela
-- 2010-06-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/dell-seeks-transformation-as-stock-slips-rivals-bulk-up-through-deals.html

          
          
             In the 3 1/2 years since  Michael S. Dell  resumed running  Dell Inc. , the computer maker he founded 26
years ago, he has made more than 10 acquisitions, cut 10,000
jobs and hired executives from Motorola Inc. and Nike Inc. to
put some flash in the company’s products. Dell bought Perot
Systems Corp. for $3.6 billion last year to expand into
computing services.  
 None of that has worked very well, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its June 21 edition.  The stock  has fallen 42 percent
since Jan. 30, 2007, the day before Dell returned from semi-
retirement. Over that period, Hewlett-Packard Co. has gained 11
percent and IBM Corp. is up 31 percent.  
 Slumps happen. There’s less precedent for Dell’s statement
before an audience of investors and analysts on June 3 in New
York. An analyst asked him if he’d ever thought about taking the
company private: “Yes,” he answered. There was silence in the
room, and Dell declined to answer more questions on the matter.  
 “When companies talk about going dark, typically you think
about small companies with problems,” said Jarrad S. Zalkin, a
vice president at investment bank TM Capital Corp. in New York.
“You don’t think about a company like Dell.”  
 Spokesman  Jess Blackburn  declined to talk about Dell’s
statement. Michael Dell also declined to comment.  
 Dell, 45, founded the company out of his University of
Texas dorm room and built it into a model of manufacturing
efficiency. Executives from other companies would visit its
Round Rock, Texas, headquarters to see how he did it.  
 Software, Services  
 A lot has changed since then. The industry’s focus has
shifted toward mobile computing, software and technology
services. IBM and Hewlett-Packard have made big commitments to
software and consulting, much higher-margin businesses than
building and selling personal computers.  
 Dell still gets 24 percent of its  revenue  from desktop PCs.
Even after the Perot Systems acquisition, services account for
only 13 percent of its sales. Cisco Systems Inc. is angling for
a piece of Dell’s $6 billion server business. While Dell
introduced a tablet computer called Streak in May, it didn’t
steal much thunder from Apple Inc.  
 “This transformation is incomplete,” Dell said at the
June 3 investor conference.  
 Some analysts say Dell needs a deal on the scale of
Hewlett-Packard’s $13.2 billion acquisition of Electronic Data
Systems Corp. in 2008.  Shaw Wu , an analyst with Kaufman Bros.
LLP in San Francisco, said one promising match might be Silicon
Valley’s Juniper Networks Inc., which makes routers used by
phone carriers and cable companies. The market for such
networking equipment is $7.1 billion.  
 ‘Do Something Dramatic’  
 “They need to do something dramatic, something crazy,” Wu
said.  
 The problem with pursuing acquisitions is that money is
becoming tight for Dell.  Sales fell  13 percent to $52.9 billion
in the fiscal year ended Jan. 29. On June 10, Dell set aside
$100 million of its first-quarter profit for a potential
settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over
the computer maker’s relationship with Intel Corp. Both
companies declined to give more information on what the SEC is
investigating.  
 Going private and escaping investor scrutiny might give
Dell the time and flexibility to develop its service business so
it could compete better with IBM and Hewlett-Packard, said
Zalkin of  TM Capital .  
 “You can move much more boldly as a private company,” he
said.  
 Still, taking the computer manufacturer private would be
expensive. Dell has a $27.4 billion  market value , and technology
companies typically fetch a 25 percent premium when they’re
sold, Zalkin said. Other analysts and bankers question whether
going private would solve any of Dell’s bigger problems.  
 It “really doesn’t change anything, because the
fundamental disadvantages don’t go away,” Kaufman’s Wu said.
“The competitors are still there.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Connie Guglielmo  in San Francisco at 
 cguglielmo1@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        