-- Democrats Release Slimmed-Down Jobs Bill Amid Deficit Concerns
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-06-18T00:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/democrats-propose-slimmed-down-jobs-proposal-to-address-deficit-concerns.html

          
          
             Senate Democrats are still searching
for the votes to pass a  jobs bill  a day after scaling back the
measure in response to complaints it would add too much to the
government’s budget deficit.  
 The chamber today rejected on a 56-40 vote, with 60 needed,
an attempt by Democratic leaders to advance the plan. Democrats
still face opposition from lawmakers including Nebraska Democrat
 Ben Nelson  and Maine Republicans Olympia Snowe and  Susan Collins 
over the bill’s price tag and some specifics of its tax and
spending provisions.  
 The overall plan would enlarge the deficit by $55 billion,
down from an earlier version’s cost of almost $80 billion,
 according to  the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. Nelson
said he wouldn’t support any plan that adds to the deficit.  
 Democrats, who control the Senate with 59 votes, need
support for the bill from at least one Republican to forward it
to the House. The measure would extend unemployment benefits
through November, extend subsidies for municipal bonds and
provide $24 billion in aid to state governments. The bill would
be partially financed by an increased tax on buyout-fund
managers.  
 “It can’t go forward without Republican votes and clearly
we need more if we’re losing Democrats,” said Senator  Dick Durbin , an Illinois Democrat and his party’s chief vote-counter.
“We’re just working at it” and looking for “alternatives that
may be more acceptable,” he said.  
 65 Percent Subsidy  
 Several major changes have been made to the bill in recent
weeks because of cost, a sign of Congress’s difficulty in
balancing conflicting demands to spend more to boost the economy
while still reducing the deficit. Among other changes, lawmakers
decided to end a 65 percent subsidy created last year to help
the jobless buy health insurance.  
 Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, released the latest plan yesterday that cut its cost
by reducing unemployment benefits, increasing taxes on  oil
companies  and shortening a reprieve for doctors from cuts in
 Medicare  payments. Earlier in the day, 11 Democrats and
Connecticut independent  Joseph Lieberman  joined Republicans in
 blocking  the previous draft.  
 Asked about Nelson’s objections, Baucus said, “there are
100 senators -- we need 60. There are lots of combinations.”  
 ‘Foot Off the Accelerator’  
 Vice President  Joseph Biden  urged lawmakers today to
complete work on the bill, saying “this is not the time to take
our foot off the accelerator.”  
 Biden, in comments at the daily White House press briefing,
said the administration is working with lawmakers to find the
votes needed to pass it.  
 As lawmakers debate the legislation, 903,000 Americans will
see their aid interrupted by the end of this week, according to
the Labor Department.  
 Baucus’s new proposal would create a multitiered tax rate
affecting some venture capital fund managers that would decrease
the longer the funds are managed. Fund executives who manage a
fund for one to five years would pay ordinary  tax rates  on 75
percent of their profit share, known as carried interest, and
the lower capital gains rate on the other 25 percent.  
 For investments of more than five years, half of the profit
share would be taxed at ordinary rates and half would get the
capital gains rate. The plan would exempt shareholders of
 Blackstone Group LP  and other publicly traded buyout firms from
facing higher taxes if they sell shares at a profit.  
 Homebuyer Credit  
 The bill would extend by three months, to Sept. 30, the
deadline for closing home purchases under the government’s
homebuyer tax-credit program. That amendment was adopted
yesterday on a 60-37 vote.  
 Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said lawmakers were concerned many
homebuyers could miss the existing June 30 deadline while
waiting for banks to process a backlog of transactions.  
 Lawmakers trimmed weekly unemployment benefits by $25
billion to an average $310, a move estimated to save $6 billion
that drew opposition from advocates for the unemployed.  
 “How anybody in their right mind could be thinking now is
the time to pull back on our support of the unemployed is just
beyond me,” said Judy Conti, a lobbyist for the National
Employment Law Project. Those living in states offering the
least generous unemployment benefits could see their checks cut
by more than 10 percent, she said.  
 Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat, said
lawmakers want to begin paring the expanded  benefits  created in
response to the recession because “this is not something that
can go on indefinitely.” Otherwise, she said, “it begins to
look like a brand-new level of entitlement program, which is
something that we really can’t afford to do right now.”  
 Medicare Payments  
 Lawmakers, who planned to postpone cuts in Medicare
payments to physicians for 19 months, opted instead for a six-
month reprieve. That proposal shaved the bill’s cost by $16
billion. The measure would also increase a tax charged on every
barrel of oil produced to 49 cents, up from 41 cents in the
previous draft. The tax is currently 8 cents per barrel.  
 Lawmakers today  rejected , 57-41, a plan offered by
Republicans that would rely on spending cuts -- rather than tax
increases on buyout managers, oil companies and other companies
-- to finance the extension of unemployment benefits and a group
of expiring business tax cuts.  
 Nelson was the only Democrat to support the Republicans’
plan, which would have reduced the deficit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        