-- Deutsche Bank's Peter Babej Said to Leave German Firm to Join Citigroup
-- Serena Saitto
-- 2010-06-17T18:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/deutsche-bank-s-peter-babej-said-to-join-citigroup-amid-banker-departures.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  hired  Deutsche Bank
AG ’s co-head of Americas financial institutions,  Peter Babej ,
marking at least the seventh departure this year of a senior
investment banker from the German firm, a person briefed on the
move said.  
 Babej, 47, will work in New York as global co-head of
financial institutions with  David Head , the person said,
declining to be identified because the move is not public. He
joined the Frankfurt-based bank in 2007 and was a key member of
a team that prepared an initial public offering, which was later
put on hold, for  American International Group Inc. ’s biggest
Asian life insurance unit. He previously worked 11 years at
Lazard Ltd, where he was a managing director for insurance-
industry clients.  
 Deutsche Bank spokesman  John Gallagher  and Citigroup
spokeswoman  Danielle Romero-Apsilos  said they couldn’t comment.
Babej didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  
 Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage, said this
week it hired Deutsche Bank’s  Mark Epley  as co-head of a unit
that advises buyout firms. Nomura also recruited  Michael Hill 
and  James DeNaut  as co-heads of global natural resources, two
people familiar with the situation said June 2. Morgan Stanley
hired Jonathan Cox and  Michael Johnson  from Deutsche Bank’s
energy group, people briefed on the moves said this month.  
 The departures come amid a shift in leadership at Deutsche
Bank’s corporate and investment bank, the company’s biggest
 money maker .  Anshu Jain , co-head of that business since 2004,
was appointed this week to be its sole leader, assuming
responsibilities for the corporate finance and transaction-
banking units on July 1 from  Michael Cohrs , who plans to retire.  
 Last year, New York-based AIG picked Deutsche Bank to be
co-global coordinator of an IPO for AIA Group Ltd. The offering
was put on hold earlier this year in favor of a $35.5 billion
sale of the business to Prudential Plc. That deal collapsed,
leaving AIG to develop a new plan for divesting the business.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        