-- Deutsche Bank Advises Investors to Sell QBE Insurance Credit-Default Swaps
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-06-17T01:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/deutsche-bank-advises-investors-to-sell-qbe-insurance-credit-default-swaps.html

          
          
             Investors should sell protection on
 QBE Insurance Group Ltd.  bonds because credit-default swaps on
Australia’s biggest insurer are pricing in too much risk, 
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  
 Credit swaps that pay buyers if QBE defaults have more than
doubled to 202.1 basis points since the start of May as Europe’s
debt crisis and BP Plc’s oil spill roiled investors, according
to prices from CMA DataVision in New York. The contracts may
fall to 145 basis points, Deutsche Bank analysts  Gus Medeiros 
and  Colin Tan  wrote in a note today.  
 “We think the CDS is attractive and would sell protection
at current levels,” Medeiros and Tan said, citing “the
company’s fundamental credit profile and peers’ CDS levels.”  
 QBE,  founded  in Australia in 1886, doesn’t own sovereign
bonds sold by Greece, Spain or Portugal, and expects to pay A$29
million ($25 million) on claims relating to the April 20
explosion at the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico, it
said in a briefing to investors yesterday. Its credit swaps are
more expensive than those on Swiss Reinsurance Co. Ltd., the
world’s second-largest insurer, after trading as much as 41
basis points cheaper in April, CMA data show.  
 QBE  shares  fell 0.53 percent to A$18.85 as of 11:33 a.m. in
Sydney. The company is  rated  A by Standard & Poor’s, the sixth-
highest grade.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The price of a contract reflects the income that sellers
of swaps receive in exchange for providing the protection.  
 A basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        