-- HDFC Mutual Fund Equities Dealer Barred by Regulator for Frontrunning
-- Pooja Thakur
-- 2010-06-18T01:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/hdfc-mutual-fund-stock-dealer-barred-by-indian-regulator-for-frontrunning.html

          
          
             India’s market regulator said it
banned a dealer at  HDFC Asset Management Co.  for so-called front
running that led to estimated losses of 23.8 million rupees
($513,928) at the country’s second-biggest money manager.  
 Nilesh Kapadia , an assistant vice president at the Mumbai-
based fund, has been barred from trading after findings showed
38 cases where Kapadia and his accomplices placed orders before
the fund, leading to “illegitimate” gains of 19.9 million
rupees, the  Securities & Exchange Board  of India said in a
statement on its website.  
 Kapadia, an employee with HDFC Asset since June 2000, was
tipping off his friend Rajiv Ramniklal Sanghvi before placing
the orders for the fund. Chandrakant P. Mehta and his daughter-
in-law Dipti Paras Mehta, in turn, traded on the tips received
from Kapadia and Sanghvi, the regulator said.  
 Milind Barve , managing director at HDFC Asset Management,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed query on the order.
The fund had about 1 trillion rupees in shares and bonds on May
31.  
 The regulator said trading and telephone records provided
evidence of front running, a practice in which a trader executes
orders for his own account, taking advantage of prior knowledge
of a transaction expected to influence the price of a security.  
 The  regulator  ordered Kapadia and HDFC Asset to jointly
deposit the estimated losses to the trustees of the mutual fund.
Sanghvi and the Mehtas have been given 15 days to deposit the
gains with the National Stock Exchange, which will hold the
amount in an escrow account, according to the statement.  
 HDFC Asset has been told to probe Kapadia’s transactions
and submit a report within six months, the regulator said.  
 Stocks that were front run include  Reliance Industries Ltd. ,
India’s most valuable company, State Bank of India, the nation’s
largest lender, and Bharti Airtel Ltd., the biggest mobile-phone
service provider, the regulator said.  
 The Securities & Exchange Board in May 2009 barred a fund
manager at Passport Capital LCC, a San Fransico-based hedge fund
for tipping off two people in advance of his trades.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        