-- Diller Says Valuations Kept IAC From Buying Companies
-- Brett Pulley
-- 2010-06-17T20:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/diller-says-iac-s-recent-takeover-plans-fell-apart-because-of-valuations.html

          
          
             Barry Diller , chairman and chief
executive officer of IAC/InterActiveCorp, said recent
acquisitions his company considered fell apart over valuations.  
 IAC, which operates the Ask.com search site and the
Match.com dating site, had planned to make large purchases over
the past two years and entered into negotiations on about 20
deals, he said.  
 “We haven’t found anything to buy,” Diller said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  
 IAC, based in New York, will continue to use its  cash  to
buy back shares and make small acquisitions rather than pursue a
large takeover, he said. IAC had $1.5 billion in cash and short-
term investments as of March 31.  
 IAC has spent about $400 million in recent years on small
acquisitions, Diller said. Now it’s focused on building
companies, such as its premium-content studio Electus, rather
than buying established media and entertainment brands, he said.
Diller formerly ran Fox Inc. and Paramount Pictures Corp.  
 IAC and  Ben Silverman , the former co-chairman of NBC
Universal entertainment, announced the Electus partnership last
July. They announced their first content agreement, producing
programs for Yahoo! Inc. that allow advertisers to integrate
their brands into the shows, in January.  
 Diller said that  Ask.com  is overshadowed by market leader
Google Inc., and that he’d be “up for consolidation” if he
found the right partner.  
 “Google is getting to a point of absolute dictatorship,”
Diller said.  
 Rival search-engine operators Microsoft Corp. and Yahoo!
Inc. have expressed interest in purchasing Ask.com over the
years, he said, but there have been no inquiries recently.  
 IAC rose 19 cents to $23.68 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed 16
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        