-- DreamWorks Animation Second-Quarter Earnings to Drop
-- Andy Fixmer
-- 2010-06-17T20:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/dreamworks-animation-says-second-quarter-earnings-to-decline-shares-fall.html

          
          
             DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc.  said
second-quarter earnings will shrink from a year ago because of
the domestic box-office performance of “Shrek Forever After”
and weaker home-video sales. The shares fell 4.1 percent.  
 The Glendale, California-based company probably will report
earnings per share that are “meaningfully below” a year
earlier,  Lewis Coleman , president and chief financial officer,
said today at a William Blair & Co. conference in Chicago.  
 DreamWorks Animation  posted  net income of 30 cents a share
in the year-earlier period. Analysts forecast 34 cents for the
quarter that ends this month, the average of 17 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. They project sales of $156.6 million.  
 The shares have slid 22 percent since the release of the
fourth “Shrek” movie on May 21. The film, the final in the
series, opened with $70 million in U.S. box office sales, below
investors’ expectations, Coleman said. “Shrek” will be a
profitable film, contributing the majority of its revenue in the
second half of the year, he said.  
 “The company’s recent stock price performance is an
indication that investors had higher expectations,” Coleman
said. Earnings also have been affected by the lack of a home-
video release this year, he said.  
 DreamWorks Animation, also the maker of the “Madagascar”
films, fell $1.16 to $27.08 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading.  
 Lazard Capital Markets Ltd. estimates that DreamWorks
Animation will report earnings of 17 cents a share in the second
quarter,  Barton Crockett , an analyst at the New York-based firm,
said in an interview.  
 “Shrek” will finish with about $250 million in U.S. box-
office sales, Crockett said. The film garnered $213.9 million in
ticket sales as of June 15, according to researcher Box Office
Mojo LLC.  
 “They’re still having a good year,” Crockett said. “We
just thought they’d have a spectacular year.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        