-- Dubai Shares Advance on Air Arabia Upgrade by HSBC, Global Stocks Rally
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-06-17T13:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/dubai-shares-advance-on-air-arabia-upgrade-by-hsbc-global-stocks-rally.html

          
          
             Dubai stocks rose a second time this
week as HSBC Holdings Plc raised  Air Arabia PJSC  to “overweight”
and global stocks gained after a Spanish bond sale eased concern
the government will struggle to finance its deficit.  
 Air Arabia,  the United Arab Emirates’ biggest low-cost
carrier, climbed the most in two weeks.  Emaar Properties PJSC ,
the developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper, increased 1
percent to 3.04 dirhams. The  DFM General Index  rose 0.8 percent
to 1,500.25, paring the drop for the week to 0.9 percent.  
 In the absence of bigger catalysts, “any positive news
that investors catch on to, such as the upgrade of a stock, they
will trade off of, but not with too much conviction,” said  Saud Masud , a Dubai-based analyst at UBS AG. “From a U.A.E. market
perspective you need the global market to recover.”  
 European stocks rose for a seventh day, the longest
stretch of gains since September, after Spain sold $4.3 billion
of bonds and BP surged as it scrapped dividends and pledged
asset sales. U.S. futures advanced and most Asian stock markets
rose. The  MSCI World Index  rose for an eighth day, the longest
winning streak in almost a year. Oil traded near a six-week high
at $77.05 a barrel at 4:33 p.m. in Dubai.  
 Air Arabia increased 2.4 percent, the most since June 3, to
84 fils. The company with the sixth heaviest weighting on
Dubai’s benchmark index was raised from “neutral” and assigned a
12-month price estimate of 1.1 dirhams at HSBC.  
 Kuwait’s  index  advanced 0.6 percent, the most in more than
a week, to 6,583.1. Qatar’s  QE Index  dropped 0.3 percent, Abu
Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  fell 0.2 percent, while Bahrain’s
 gauge  advanced 0.2 percent.
Saudi Arabia’s market was closed for the weekend.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        