-- Durbin Vows to Win Debit-Fee Cap, Calls Objections `Manageable'
-- Peter Eichenbaum
-- 2010-06-17T19:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/durbin-vows-to-win-debit-card-swipe-fee-cap-calls-objections-manageable-.html

          
          
             U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , the
majority whip, said objections to his proposed cap on debit-card
transaction fees are “manageable” and that the card industry
fomented opposition by intimidating small banks.  
 “All of them are manageable,” the  Illinois  Democrat said
today about concerns voiced by lawmakers as conferees work to
merge House and Senate versions of the financial overhaul bill.
“They’ll take some hard work to resolve, but we can do it,” he
said in a telephone interview.  
 Durbin said he’s determined to push through his amendment
and counteract the “unregulated power” wielded by  Visa Inc. 
and  MasterCard Inc. , the world’s biggest payment networks. The
measure would limit what merchants pay each time a customer uses
a debit card. Durbin faces growing opposition in the House and
from community banks and credit unions who say his plan will
lead to higher fees for consumers.  
 Credit unions and community banks are lobbying against the
proposal “out of fear” that San Francisco-based Visa and
MasterCard, based in Purchase, New York, will punish them if
they don’t, Durbin said. “Visa and MasterCard cannot show their
faces in this debate” because card networks and banks are so
unpopular on Capitol Hill, he said.  
 Instead, community banks and credit unions are being pushed
into acting as “surrogates,” he said. “They’re afraid, and
they’re expressing those fears to a lot of members of Congress
who are sympathetic to the institutions,” Durbin said. “So,
we’re doing our best to not only reinforce the bill’s provisions
but to address these concerns that are raised.”  
 Opposition Group  
 Credit unions and community bankers “came to this judgment
on their own,” said Shawn A. Miles, group head of global public
policy at MasterCard. “They’re financially savvy, they
understand the implications. We have not threatened them in any
way, shape or form.”  
 Visa’s  Will Valentine  said the groups “reached their own
conclusion” that the measure will harm consumers, raise costs
and make it harder for smaller financial firms to compete. Jason
Kratovil, a spokesman for the Independent Community Bankers of
America, said the amendment will make it harder to provide
“fee-free products and services that consumers have come to
expect.”  
 Representative  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a member of the
House majority’s leadership team, persuaded 130 colleagues to
join her in signing a letter that urges the bipartisan
conference committee to strip Durbin’s proposal from the bill.
The Florida Democrat has said her opposition isn’t influenced by
her husband, Steve Schultz, vice president of commercial lending
at Community Bank of Broward in Florida.  
 Getting Heat  
 “Several members who’ve signed the letter have called me
and said, ‘You know, we got a lot of heat from our local credit
unions and we felt like we had to sign it in an election
year,’” Durbin said.  
 Durbin wants to empower the Federal Reserve to set
“swipe” fees, or interchange, that are “reasonable and
proportional” to the cost of processing the transaction. The
fees merchants paid to accept Visa and MasterCard debit cards
last year totaled $19.7 billion and averaged 1.63 percent of
each sale, according to the Nilson Report, an industry
newsletter.  
 The measure also permits retailers to offer discounts based
on the form of payment, or for a particular card brand, and set
minimums and maximums for credit-card purchases.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        