-- Dutch Author Gerbrand Bakker Wins EU100,000 Irish Book Contest
-- James Pressley
-- 2010-06-17T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/dutch-author-gerbrand-bakker-wins-eu100-000-irish-book-contest.html

          
          
             Dutch author  Gerbrand Bakker  won the
 International IMPAC Dublin Literary Award , overcoming
competition from Zoe Heller and Marilynne Robinson for the prize
of 100,000 euros ($124,000).  
 Bakker was honored this evening at Dublin’s Mansion House
for “The Twin” ( Harvill Secker ), the story of a man forced to
return to his family’s farm in the flat, bleak Dutch countryside
after his twin brother dies in a car accident.  
 The judges praised the novel for its restraint and clarity.  
 “Though rich in detail, it’s a sparely written story, with
the narrator’s odd small cruelties, laconic humor and surprising
tendernesses emerging through a steady, well-paced, unaffected
style,” they said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Bakker will share the prize money with translator David
Colmer, who receives 25,000 euros.  
 This year’s shortlisted books included Heller’s “The
Believers” (Fig Tree), Robinson’s “Home” (Farrar/Virago) and
Joseph O’Neill’s “Netherland” (Pantheon/Fourth Estate).  
 The other finalists were “ The Elegance of the Hedgehog ”
by Muriel Barbery (Europa Editions/Gallic Books), “ In Zodiac
Light ” by Robert Edric (Doubleday), “ Settlement ” by Christoph
Hein (Metropolitan) and “God’s Own Country” by Ross Raisin
(Viking).  
 The prize was first awarded in 1996. Previous winners have
included  Colm Toibin , who received it in 2006 for “The
Master.” The contest is managed by Dublin City Libraries and
draws on nominations from librarians around the globe. This
year’s 155 nominations came from 163 public libraries in 43
cities, the organizers said.  
 IMPAC is a trademark of Integrated Control Systems Inc., a
Florida corporation specializing in management productivity.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        