-- The Big Pay Cut
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-06-17T15:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/the-big-pay-cut.html

          
          
             Wells Fargo’s John Stumpf
was the highest-paid CEO among the 50 biggest financial firms in
our annual ranking. Goaded by pay master Ken Feinberg, firms cut
pay 21 percent overall.  
 Wells Fargo & Co.’s  board of directors had a busy final week of
2009. On Dec. 23, the San Francisco-based lender returned to the
Treasury the $25 billion it had borrowed under the U.S.
government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program. That freed the bank
from the Treasury’s rules on executive pay.  
 The next day, the board made  John Stumpf  the best-paid
chief executive officer of the 50 biggest financial companies by
awarding him shares of Wells Fargo stock valued at about $10
million.  
 Stumpf, 56, earned his No. 1 ranking in Bloomberg Markets’
Finance 50 by  receiving $21.3 million  in salary and stock in
2009, more than doubling his 2008 compensation, Bloomberg
Markets reports in its July issue.  
 Jay Fishman , CEO of insurer  Travelers Cos. , is No. 2,
earning $20.6 million, up 42 percent, most of it in stock,
options and other performance-based compensation.  
 John Finnegan of insurer Chubb Corp. is No. 3, at $19.2
million, a raise of 13 percent.  
 The three men are defying a trend.  
 In 2009, many of the CEOs of big financial firms shunned
the huge paydays that embarrassed them during the meltdown of
2008.  Lloyd Blankfein , CEO of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , whose
$40.95 million in compensation ranked him No. 1 in 2008, fell to
No. 48, with $862,657, right next to Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
 Warren Buffett , who made $175,000 -- $75,000 of which was a
director’s fee from Washington Post Co., a Berkshire holding.  
 Pandit No. 50  
 Citigroup Inc.’s  Vikram Pandit , No. 3 last year, dropped to
No. 50 after agreeing to take $1 in salary for 2009 and no
bonus. (His total for the year was $128,751, reflecting
compensation in the weeks before he took his pay cut.)  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO  Jamie Dimon  was paid a total of
$1.32 million in 2009, a 96 percent  drop  from 2008.  
 The compensation figures don’t include money and stock paid
after 2009. Goldman’s board, for instance, awarded Blankfein $9
million in restricted stock in February 2010 for his 2009
performance. Dimon got $17 million in restricted stock and
options.  
 The Wall Street CEOs are hoping that lower compensation
will buy them some cover from the public outrage over the
government’s bank bailout, says  Kenneth Feinberg , the Obama
administration’s special master on executive pay.  
 “How do you justify those three people dropping?”
Feinberg asks, referring to Blankfein, Dimon and Pandit. “You
justify it by saying that they don’t want to deal with the
political consequences and the heat of this.”  
 Pay Master  
 The 64-year-old Boston lawyer was appointed by the Treasury
Department in June 2009. The order creating his office gave him
control over the compensation of the  25 top earners  in the
financial institutions that were the biggest recipients of TARP
funds.  
 In addition, he advised on the pay of the 75 next-highest-
paid workers at the firms.  
 Feinberg, who also oversaw the September 11 Victim
Compensation Fund, told Bloomberg Television on Feb. 8 that he
and Blankfein had spoken about how Goldman Sachs should approach
compensation.  
 “To a large extent, I think he has succeeded in adopting
the prescriptions we laid out,” Feinberg said.  
 The pay cut suffered by Blankfein, Dimon and Pandit
“demonstrates better than anything the political impact of what
I’m doing,” Feinberg says, speaking from his office near the
163-year-old  Willard Hotel  on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington,
a block from the White House. “I think they feel that it is
unwise at this stage to be seeking lavish compensation
packages.”  
 ‘So Aggravating’  
 Twenty-two of the Finance 50 firms received money from the
TARP program, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Feinberg’s contribution was to be so aggravating that
these companies wanted to return the TARP funds as soon as
possible,” says  James Reda , managing director at New York-based
compensation consultant James F. Reda & Associates LLC.  
 Fourteen of the 22 paid TARP back in 2009 or early 2010; as
of May 25, eight were still in the program, including four of
the 21 companies whose CEOs got pay raises in 2009.  
 “It deserves to get asked again and again: whether handing
out pay raises while feeding on taxpayer funds is fair,” says
 Bob Jones , CEO of  Old National Bancorp , an Evansville, Indiana-
based lender that was one of the first to repay its TARP loan,
which was $100 million.  
 Balancing Act  
 “Bankers have to balance the public scrutiny with the need
to retain and motivate management,” says Jones, whose  company 
wasn’t big enough to make the Bloomberg ranking.  
 Jones asked his board of directors to withhold pay raises
for him and his top executives in 2009, “given the
extraordinarily difficult banking industry and general economic
environment,” according to a company filing. The board’s
compensation committee obliged, cutting Jones’s pay by 13
percent to $1.23 million.  
 Overall, pay for the highest-ranking financial executives
is dropping. Average compensation for the Finance 50 CEOs fell
21 percent in 2009, to $8.95 million from $11.4 million a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg data. That follows a 19 percent
decline from 2007, when average compensation was $14.1 million.  
 Yet the political pressure has not dissipated. President
 Barack Obama  has proposed to tax the big banks to claw back any
losses from TARP.  
 ‘Obscene Bonuses’  
 “We want our money back, and we’re going to get it,”
Obama said in a White House press conference in January. “My
determination to achieve this goal is only heightened when I see
reports of massive profits and obscene bonuses at some of the
very firms who owe their continued existence to the American
people.”  
 No specific legislation has yet been proposed.  
 Not all of the Finance 50 CEOs took their cues from the
political rhetoric. Some pulled down big paychecks even while
providing relatively little value for the money they earned
during the two years of the financial crisis, according to
Bloomberg data.  Henry Meyer III  of KeyCorp, a Cleveland-based
lender, topped the ranking of those providing the least value
for the years 2008 and 2009. Meyer, 60, received a 21 percent
increase in his 2009 compensation, to $8.15 million, though
KeyCorp posted eight consecutive quarterly losses for the period
ended on March 31.  
 The lender is still sitting on $2.5 billion in TARP funds.  
 Least-Value Ranking  
 The least-value ranking is based on KeyCorp’s  stock return 
for 2008 and 2009 -- down a total of 76 percent to $5.55 from
$23.45 -- combined with Meyer’s pay over the same period per
million dollars of assets.  
 KeyCorp spokesman Bill Murschel says Meyer was rewarded for
“strengthening capital levels, liquidity and funding ratios.”
He says Meyer’s base salary increase, to $1.64 million, was
funded in stock and can’t be redeemed until the bank pays back
TARP.  
 No. 2 in the least-value ranking is  Dowd Ritter , CEO of
Birmingham, Alabama-based  Regions Financial Corp.  He stepped
down as CEO on April 1 after the bank, which has branches in 16
U.S. states,  suffered losses  totaling $6.63 billion for 2008 and
2009. Nevertheless, his $9.67 million in 2009 compensation
represented a 42 percent raise.  
 Regions Financial still owed TARP $3.5 billion as of May
25.  
 No. 3 in the least-value ranking is  Christina Gold , CEO of
Englewood, Colorado-based Western Union Co. and the only woman
in the Finance 50. Gold’s compensation almost quadrupled to
$8.14 million in 2009 from $2.19 million in 2008.  
 Challenging Conditions  
 Company spokesman  Tom Fitzgerald  says the board’s decision
to raise Gold’s pay “involved the company’s anticipated
performance against the impact of external factors on the
company, such as the challenging global economic conditions in
2009.”  
 Gold, who has announced she will retire on Sept. 1,
struggled to find growth for the world’s biggest money-transfer
business as the economy stalled and unemployment soared among
the migrant families that are some of Western Union’s most
frequent customers. The company  forecasts  little or no revenue
growth in 2010. Its stock fell 22 percent in the two years ended
on Dec. 31.  
 The pay cut that JPMorgan’s Dimon took put him at the top
of the ranking of financial CEOs providing the best value for
the money, according to Bloomberg data. JPMorgan never had a
losing  quarter  during the crisis of 2008 and 2009; it repaid $25
billion in TARP funds in June 2009.  
 Wells Fargo Outperforms  
 No. 2 in the best-value ranking is Stumpf, whose bank
reported  four straight quarters  of profits in 2009 as revenue
climbed from mortgage banking and costs declined from its 2009
purchase of Wachovia Corp.  
 Wells Fargo’s  stock was up more than 250 percent as of May
25 from its low of $8.12 on March 5, 2009.  
 “We increased John Stumpf’s compensation because the
company’s size and complexity grew after the  acquisition  of
Wachovia and because the 2009 performance was at the very top,”
says Steve Sanger, head of the Human Resources Committee of
Wells Fargo’s board of directors and a former chairman and CEO
of General Mills Inc.  
 Buffett’s Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway  is the
biggest  Wells Fargo shareholder , with 320 million shares valued
at $9.96 billion on March 31. Buffett, who hasn’t taken a pay
raise from Berkshire in 29 years, has strong opinions on what he
regards as excessive CEO pay.  
 Buffett’s Letter  
 In his  annual letter  to Berkshire  shareholders  this year,
Buffett wrote that a financial CEO should “bear full
responsibility” for risk control at his institution and that if
the government is forced to come to his rescue, “the financial
consequences for him and his board should be severe.”  
 Buffett didn’t respond to requests for comment on Stumpf’s
pay package.  
 Too many CEOs and the boards of directors who decide their
pay still seem to be deaf to the anger that surrounds the issue
in Congress and the country at large, says  Kurt Schacht ,
managing director of the Charlottesville, Virginia-based  CFA
Institute , which certifies financial professionals.  
 “You still see some very questionable practices, such as
CEOs taking large pay increases when their performance has been
dismal,” Schacht says. “A lot of financial industry executives
are taking credit for improvements in their stock price that
really are a reflection of the government bailout.”  
 Feinberg Impact  
 Feinberg says the period since he took his job in June 2009
is too short to evaluate the government’s long-term effect on
financial CEO pay.  
 “We have to wait another year or two to see whether what I
am doing has an impact or whether memories are short and you go
back to the old way of doing things,” he says. “I would like
to see lower pay in the aggregate. I would like to see more
stock and less cash. I would like to see no guarantees, no
retention payments.”  
 As Feinberg leaves the scene -- with TARP paybacks, he
retains control of pay at only five companies -- others will
take up his cause. Congress, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. and the Group of 20 nations are all considering imposing
restrictions on the pay of financial CEOs.  
 The Federal Reserve in April told executives from two dozen
U.S. banks they must end pay practices that encourage excessive
risk taking by tying compensation to short-term returns. Fed
officials are regulators and auditors of the biggest banks,
including  Bank of America Corp. , Morgan Stanley, Citigroup,
Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase.  
 Fed Directives  
 In meetings with executives and board members, Fed
officials also told them to ensure that managers of individual
business units aren’t given too much discretion over employee
compensation. The central bank’s directives are included in
written  guidelines published in October . Banks are required to
show the Fed they have set up internal systems to monitor
compliance.  
 Investors take the Fed’s side.  
 “What gets us crazy is when we see CEOs with a short-term
focus -- as we saw leading up to the mortgage crisis,” says
 Matthew McCormick , a banking-industry analyst and portfolio
manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which has $2.8
billion under management. “Let’s get back to the fiduciary
responsibility of executives to treat capital judiciously
instead of blowing it on extravagant pay or empire building.”  
 Not Washington’s Job  
 The CFA Institute’s Schacht says it shouldn’t be
Washington’s job to lay down new rules.  
 “This really should not be driven by government
intervention,” he says. “It should be the board of directors
doing its job and having some responsibility to set reasonable
pay practices. And the only way the board is going to do that is
if they’re sensitized to the public outrage.”  
 Wells Fargo investor  Gerald Armstrong  is one aggrieved
shareholder. At the bank’s annual meeting in April in San
Francisco, Armstrong, an investor and shareholder rights
activist, criticized CEO Stumpf’s pay and put forward a proposal
that would give stockholders a nonbinding vote on executive and
director compensation. Armstrong, who owns 38,000 shares and
lives in Denver, recommended that the lender use its biggest
shareholder, Buffett, as an example.  
 “I think the members of management are highly overpaid,”
Armstrong says in an interview. “Why should Stumpf be rewarded
for the performance of the past that is so poor?”  
 Shareholders and Compensation  
 The shareholders rejected Armstrong’s proposal in favor of
a company resolution that gives investors a nonbinding advisory
vote on executive compensation but not directors’ pay, the
company says.  
 Shareholder groups favor a direct vote on executive
compensation and the right to remove members of compensation
committees who aren’t responsive to concerns over pay.  
 “If directors know they could lose their board seats, they
will do a better job overall and be more careful in approving
executive pay packages,” says  Amy Borrus , deputy director of
the  Council of Institutional Investors  in Washington.  
 While many financial firms have made changes in their
compensation programs since 2008, Borrus says, it remains to be
seen whether this is a short-term response to government
pressure or a longer-term effort to improve shareholder value.  
 “The track record is not encouraging,” she says.
“Historically, it has been all upside for finance CEOs and no
downside risk. They were highly paid for performance that turned
out to be short-lived.”  
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  is a Bloomberg News reporter in New
York at  ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
 #<535521.2245115.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jun/17/2010 15:52 GMT
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Photograph by Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         John Stumpf, president and chief executive officer of Wells Fargo & Co. Photograph by  Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     John Stumpf, president and chief executive officer of Wells Fargo & Co. Photograph by  Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
