-- U.S. Recovery Creates Little Job Growth, No Inflation
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-06-17T20:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/leading-economic-index-in-u-s-rises-in-sign-of-lasting-rebound.html

          
          
             The world’s largest economy will
keep expanding in the second half of the year without stoking
inflation or generating many jobs, reinforcing the Federal
Reserve’s low-interest-rate policy, reports today showed.  
 The index of leading indicators, a gauge of the outlook for
growth over the next three to six months, climbed 0.4 percent in
May, according to data from the New York-based Conference Board.
Other figures showed the cost of living dropped, claims for
jobless benefits unexpectedly increased to the highest level in
a month and manufacturing in the Philadelphia Fed region cooled.  
 “The recovery is intact,” said  Ellen Zentner , a senior
U.S. macroeconomist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New
York, who correctly forecast the gain in the leading index.
“With price data like we saw today, the Fed is absolutely able
to stand pat through this year without any qualms about
inflation. The labor market is still in a precarious position.”  
 A late-day rally lifted stocks, helping overcome an early
slump as the reports raised concern the European debt crisis may
prompt American companies to rein in hiring. A drop in  commodity
prices  brought on by the turmoil and price cuts by retailers
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  highlight the Fed’s forecast for
“subdued” inflation.  
 The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  rose 0.1 percent to close
at 1,116.04, led by a rebound in technology and industrial
shares. Treasury securities jumped, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 3.20 percent at 4:14 p.m. in New
York from 3.26 percent late yesterday.  
 More Claims  
 Initial jobless  claims  increased by 12,000 to 472,000 in
the week ended June 12, Labor Department figures showed.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected the number of
applications would drop to 450,000, according to the  median
forecast .  
 The figures indicated firings are staying elevated even as
the economy grows. Some companies are trimming payrolls to boost
or maintain profits at the same time overall employment has
grown each month this year.  
 “The labor market is not improving,” said  Steven Ricchiuto , chief economist at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New
York. “If you really are going to have a sustainable recovery,
you need the labor market to improve.”  
 Manufacturing  in the region covered by the Philadelphia Fed
expanded in June at the slowest pace since August as a measure
of factory employment contracted for the first time in seven
months, the branch of the central bank reported today.  
 Philadelphia Manufacturing  
 Its general economic  index , where readings greater than
zero signal growth, dropped to 8 from 21.4 in May. The regional
gauge covers eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and
Delaware. Economists forecast the measure would fall to 20,
according to the median projection.  
 Manufacturing, which led the economy out of the worst
recession since the 1930s, is easing into a more sustainable
pace of growth as the need to replenish  inventories  becomes less
pressing. The figures stand in contrast to a report this week
showing New York factories expanded at a faster rate.  
 Other data from the Labor Department showed consumer prices
dropped 0.2 percent in May, a second consecutive decrease and
the biggest since December 2008. Excluding food and fuel, the
so-called  core  rate increased 0.1 percent. The figures matched
the median forecasts of economists surveyed.  
 Last month’s fall was led by a decrease in energy costs
propelled by concern that efforts to rein in government debt in
Europe will slow global growth. Gasoline prices declined 5.2
percent, the biggest drop since December 2008.  
 Inflation Cools  
 In the 12 months ended in May, consumer prices rose 2
percent following a 2.2 percent year-over-year gain the prior
month. The core rate rose 0.9 percent from May 2009, matching
the smallest year-over-year gain since 1966.  
 Fed forecasters lowered their outlook for inflation,
according to minutes of their April meeting. Officials
“anticipated that inflation would remain subdued over the next
several years,” the minutes released May 19 said.  
 The deceleration in inflation prompted economists at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York today to push their forecast
for a rate increase by the central bank to the fourth quarter of
2011 from the second quarter of that year.  
 “The disinflation we have witnessed could be with us for
some time,”  Michael Feroli , JPMorgan’s chief U.S. economist,
said in a note to clients, citing the smaller price gains in
services and the lack of wage pressure.  
 Shopping for Discounts  
 Some lower-income customers in the U.S. are “still deeply
in the recession” and are shopping various retailers for the
cheapest prices, Jamie Sohosky, senior director of marketing for
Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores, said this month.  
 Shoppers at Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, are
also using more coupons than a year ago, Sohosky said. They’re
worried about losing their jobs and paying mortgages, she said.  
 The breadth of gains within the components of the index of
leading indicators means there is little risk the rebound from
the recession will be derailed by the European debt crisis.  
 Five of the 10 indicators contributed to May’s increase,
led by the spread between the yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note and the Fed’s target rate for short-term loans
between banks. An increase in the money supply and a longer
factory workweek also added.  
 Five of the components declined, including slumps in stock
prices and  building permits .  
 “The European crisis is having an extremely mild impact,”
said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s Zentner. “While there are
some signs it’s affecting business sentiment, the effect is very
limited at this time.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The index of U.S. leading indicators rose 0.4 percent in May, signaling the world’s largest economy will keep expanding this year. Photographer: Mike Mergen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
