-- Learning Curve
-- Jason H. Harper
-- 2010-06-17T15:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/learning-curve.html

          
          
             Porsche’s Alabama racing
school gives amateurs a chance to pretend they’re blazing down
the straights of Le Mans.  
 Racing legend Hurley Haywood has his eye on me. He’s observing
from the side of a steep hairpin turn at Barber Motorsports Park
racetrack. I’ve come in way too hot, and my Porsche 911, tires
smoking, is hurtling sideways toward the spot where Haywood is
standing.  
 Joggling the wheel to regain control, I give a sheepish wave to
the iconic Porsche race driver and then roar away.  
 Having Haywood--who has won the 24 Hours of Daytona five times
and the 24 Hours of Le Mans three times--watch over novices is
like having Los Angeles Lakers basketball star Kobe Bryant coach
a junior-varsity team.  
 Haywood, chief driving instructor, helped start the Porsche
Sport Driving School and conducts 20 classes a year.  
 The three-day Masters Plus program is Porsche’s most advanced
course in the U.S., costing $5,295. Graduates get a race license
from the Sports Car Club of America that allows them to enter
regional races.  
 This will be my year of speed. I’ve spent more than a decade
testing sports cars, with a handful of track days each year. In
2010, I’ve resolved to polish my skills and do actual bumper-to-
bumper racing.  
 Porsche’s school is an excellent place to hit that next level.
It’s progressive: All students must first take the one- or two-
day High Performance course, which costs $1,795 or $2,955.
(There’s also a women-only class.)  
 Beginners learn basic handling skills on a skid pad--a flat
piece of pavement designed for the purpose--as well as
strategies for how to negotiate a road course, which typically
has twists and turns, hills and crests.  
 Next is the two-day Masters class ($3,495), in which students
lap the course at their own pace. Those who complete the Masters
can jump to the Masters Plus, in which laps are nearly unlimited
and passing techniques are taught.  
 All of this takes place on a pristine, 2.38-mile (3.83-
kilometer) road course in Birmingham, Alabama. The dream of
local businessman George Barber, the track has 16 corners, steep
elevation changes, a blind crest and corkscrew and hairpin
turns.  
 Your learning tool is a 345-horsepower Porsche 911. In the hands
of the instructors, the school’s best asset, this basic model is
shockingly fast.  
 In addition to Haywood, I recognize most of the instructors from
my first time here seven years ago. There are 22 students,
ranging from former CEOs to surgeons, and we each drive some 150
laps. Everyone stays at the same hotel, the Ross Bridge Golf
Resort, with meals included and taken together. With so many
alpha types, the atmosphere is both competitive and collegial.  
 On my final afternoon session, I am in the pits, helmet buckled,
waiting to pull onto the track. I have to will myself to control
my breathing and let my mind go blank. After all, a part of your
psyche questions why you’d want to drive at 110 miles per hour
into a dangerous curve.  
 Then I’m off, building speed. I pass a dawdling driver on the
left and drag the 911 back onto the racing line just before a
descending hairpin. I stomp hard on the brake before
downshifting the manual transmission and blipping the throttle.  
 A complex move, made in blurred seconds. A mistake could be
catastrophic. (There’s never been a death at the school, the
management says.)  
 I’m in the flow now, relaxed, and I blow down the descending
corkscrew, one of the track’s most difficult and scary turns,
and my favorite. To get it right, you have to feel like you’re
on the ragged edge, just this side of losing control.  
 The engine is screaming, and I’ve got the air conditioner turned
way up. I’m sweating. I roar through the flat S curves, barely
slowing. Perfect. Then a fast-descending left followed by an
uphill right. I screw this up every time.  
 My eyes are up, and I’m following the curve of the road, pushing
the car as hard as I dare, tires whining. I’m on the bumper of a
slower car. Students aren’t allowed to pass here; I have to
wait.  
 Then comes the last major turn of the course, a steep downhill
leading into the long front straightaway. I blast by the other
guy, running the 911 past 100 mph before slamming hard on the
brakes and starting all over again. I’ve got 22 minutes left to
do one perfect lap.  
 My first real race is within a month; I think I’ll be ready. Let
the year of speed begin.  
 Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Bloomberg News in New
York.  jason@jasonhharper.com   
 #<535521.2245115.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jun/17/2010 15:56 GMT
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Racing-school students drive Porsche 911s. Base models are capable of 110-plus mph. Photograph by Gary Tramontina/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
