-- ECB's Liikanen Says Budget Cuts May Hamper Economic Growth in Euro Region
-- Kati Pohjanpalo
-- 2010-06-17T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/ecb-s-liikanen-says-budget-cuts-may-hamper-economic-growth-in-euro-region.html

          
          
             European Central Bank council member
 Erkki Liikanen  said budget cuts may slow economic growth in the
euro area.  
 “The sovereign debt crisis has increased the downside
risks to the growth forecast,” Liikanen, 59, who also heads the
Finnish central bank, said in a press briefing in Helsinki
today. “Faster-than-expected consolidation of public finances
could contribute to slower short-term growth.”  
 Europe is grappling with a debt crisis that has prompted
the creation of a 750 billion-euro ($920 billion) rescue fund by
euro-area countries. Simultaneously, the ECB, led by President
 Jean-Claude Trichet , has started buying securities to boost
liquidity on the market for European bonds.  
 The region’s economy expanded 0.2 percent in the first
three months of this year, extending the recovery to a third
straight quarter. The 16-nation euro area may see growth of 0.9
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2011, the European
Commission, the EU’s executive body, forecast on May 5.  
 The long-term impact of fiscal consolidation is
“positive,” as sustainable growth “isn’t possible without
healthy public finances,” Liikanen said.  
 The average budget deficit in the euro region may widen to
6.6 percent of gross domestic product this year before easing to
6.1 percent next year, the commission projects. That’s more than
double the EU’s 3 percent limit.  
 European leaders meet in Brussels today to discuss the
unprecedented financial backstop to support high-deficit nations
such as Spain and defend the euro. The single currency has
fallen 14 percent this year as Greece’s near-default fueled
concern about rising debt in the region.  
 On the central bank’s bond-purchase program, Liikanen said
“the Securities Markets Program doesn’t represent a relaxation
of monetary policy” and all liquidity added to the market will
be removed “in full.” The central bank, which has kept its
 benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent for more
than a year, is “inflexibly attached” to its price-stability
objective “under all circumstances,” he said.  
 Europe’s aid plan “created an opportunity to take further
action and it’s important that Europe use the time well,” World
Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said in an interview late
yesterday in New York. “We’re not through that period by any
means yet.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        