-- ECB's Weber Says Future Stress Tests May Include Government Bond Markets
-- Jana Randow
-- 2010-06-17T14:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/ecb-s-weber-says-future-stress-tests-for-banks-will-be-more-comprehensive.html

          
          
             European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Axel Weber  said future stress tests in the
banking industry will be more comprehensive than the current
evaluations and may include government bond markets.  
 “The tests will be targeted on issues which are discussed
at the moment and focus on big institutions,” Weber said at a
conference in Frankfurt today. “We’ll also discuss detailed
scenarios, we’ll discuss stress tests which include the market
for government bonds” and more institutions.  
 European leaders may confer about a Europe-wide initiative
for bank and insurance-company stress tests at a meeting in
Brussels today and announce results next month, German Deputy
Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen  said in an interview. European
banks face writedowns of 553 billion euros ($685 billion)
between 2007 and 2010, the ECB estimated in December.  
 European Union regulators are conducting confidential
stress tests on the region’s lenders at the moment after they
racked up losses and writedowns during the financial crisis,
leading to taxpayer-funded bailouts. Spain’s plans to publish
the findings sparked a debate among leaders and investors about
the consequences for the banking industry.  
 The results of these tests, broken down by financial
institutions and countries “should be revealed,” Weber said.
“As far as I have followed the discussions in the past days,
that’s also the consensus among European governments.”  
 “We want to send a clear signal to the markets that
transparency is helpful and that we have nothing to hide in
Europe,” Asmussen said. “We have already done some work; some
more needs to be done. I would suppose that we could come out
with the results in July.”  
 Under Pressure  
 Greece’s fiscal crisis has sparked a bond-market rout that
raised concerns about the single European currency. Uncertainty
about fiscal sustainability has also put banks’ stocks under
pressure. Shares of  Deutsche Bank AG  lost 20 percent in the
month before an EU-led rescue package worth 750 billion euros
($928 billion) was announced on May 10.  
 Markets rallied after the U.S. published stress tests in
2009, though European authorities have so far declined to follow
suit. Financial Stability Board chief  Mario Draghi  on June 5
urged European authorities to publish the results of stress
tests on banks, saying doing so would “clear the air.”  
 Banking groups in Germany and the U.K. said disclosing
details on specific institutions carried risks. Publication can
“contribute to creating confidence and calming the markets” if
done in a way that does not leave “room for misinterpretation,”
Germany’s BdB banking association said. The British Bankers’
Association said releasing results may lead to a “run on a
perfectly sound bank.”  
 Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said
last week that publishing stress tests would be “very, very
dangerous” if mechanisms to support European banks weren’t in
place beforehand. He favors publishing the stress tests for
European banks “in principle,”, Ackermann said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Asmussen Says Germany Supports Europe-Wide Stress Tests
 Michel Doermer  in Frankfurt at 
 mdoermer@bloomberg.net ;
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Weber says future stress tests may include bond market  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         ECB Governing Council member Axel Weber. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     ECB Governing Council member Axel Weber. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
