-- EDF Said to Delay Bidding for U.K. Electricty Network Over Pensions Issue
-- Kari Lundgren
-- 2010-06-17T09:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/edf-said-to-delay-bidding-for-u-k-electricty-network-over-pensions-issue.html

          
          
             Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power producer, will delay final bids for its 4 billion-
pound ($5.9 billion) U.K. distribution network until at least
mid-July while a pension fund issue is resolved, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  
 EDF’s pension fund trustees have to discuss the issue and
bidders have been told offers will be considered in the second
half of next month, said the people who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. Under a change-of-
control clause, a new buyer would be required to pay as much as
200 million pounds to the pension fund, the Sunday Times
reported June 13, without saying where it got the information.
EDF spokesman  Francois Molho  declined to comment on the sale.  
 Two groups and a Hong Kong company are expected to make
offers for the network, valued at more than 4 billion pounds.
They are Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd., a group led
by Australia’s Macquarie Group Ltd. as well as U.K. utility
Scottish & Southern Energy Plc partnered with Canada’s Borealis
Infrastructure Management Inc., the people said.  
 EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  is considering
selling the network to help reduce debt after the nuclear
utility expanded into the U.K. with the purchase of British
Energy Group Plc in 2008. Paris-based EDF needs to make billions
of euros in investment at home to maintain France’s 58 atomic
reactors. The company is being advised on the network sale by
 Deutsche Bank AG  and Barclays Plc.  
 Macquarie, the Australian bank, is partnering with the
Canadian Pension Plan and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority. The
group is being advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Lexicon
Partners and Macquarie Capital Advisers, the people said.
Scottish & Southern and Borealis are being advised by Credit
Suisse Group AG and RBC Capital Markets. Cheung Kong
Infrastructure is being advised by  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , the people said.  
 Bid Financing  
 Macquarie spokeswoman Renae Marks in London declined to
comment.  Ross Easton , a spokesman with Scottish & Southern in
Perth, Scotland, said the company didn’t have anything to add
beyond previous statements. Cheung Kong Infrastructure
spokeswoman  Margot Leong  in Hong Kong didn’t immediately return
messages left by Bloomberg News.  
 Scottish & Southern said June 1 that it won’t sell shares
to fund the purchase, limiting its potential stake to about 10
percent. The utility had originally considered buying a 50
percent stake along with Borealis.  
 Financing a potential bid of EDF’s power network isn’t
“straightforward,” said  Neil McGee , finance director at Hong
Kong Electric Holdings, a unit of Cheung Kong Infrastructure, on
June 14.  
 EDF Chief Financial Officer  Thomas Piquemal  said on a May
11 conference call that the utility expected final offers for
the U.K. grid this month, and “quality” bids could then be put
before the board for a decision.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        