-- Botas, Edison, Depa Sign Turkey-Greek-Italy Natural Gas Pipeline Agreement
-- Ercan Ersoy
-- 2010-06-17T15:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/edison-turkey-s-botas-conclude-agreement-for-gas-pipeline-through-greece.html

          
          
             Italy’s  Edison SpA , Turkish state-
run Botas and Greece’s Depa SA signed an agreement to carry
Caspian gas to Italy via Turkey and the Adriatic, cutting
Europe’s dependence on Russia as the main gas supplier.  
 The memorandum of understanding for the so-called
Interconnection Turkey-Greece-Italy project, or ITGI, was signed
in Ankara today, the three companies said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 “The pipeline represents a strategic infrastructure which
will significantly increase European energy security as it will
be the first link with the Caspian area where about 20 percent
of world’s gas reserves are located,” Roberto Poti, executive
vice president at Edison, said in the statement.  
 Europe is looking to diversify its sources of gas as
consumption of the fuel is forecast to rise at an average annual
rate of 0.8 percent through 2030, according to a November
outlook from the International Energy Agency. Turkey, seeking
membership of the European Union, wants to be a conduit for gas
and oil from the Caspian, Russia, Iraq and Iran to Europe.  
 The pipeline will be completed in 2017, Turkish Energy
Minister  Taner Yildiz  said at a news conference in Ankara to
mark the signing of the accord. The line will compliment not
rival the planned Nabucco pipeline due to carry Caspian gas to
Europe from Turkey via Austria, he said. Total costs for ITGI
are not known, he added.  
 Infrastructure will include upgrading Turkey’s national
grid to enable transit of gas to Greece and Italy, a pipeline to
Greece completed in 2007 and the Greek-Italian section of the
pipeline which will have a capacity of 8 billion cubic meters
and is 800 kilometers long, according to the statement.  
 “With the signing of today’s MoU we once more underlined
Turkey’s unique role for the interconnection of Eastern rich gas
reserves with Europe’s growing demand,” Fazil Senel, chairman
of Botas, said in the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        