-- Heebner's Hold on Top Fund Spot Slips as CGM Focus Slumps for Third Year
-- Charles Stein
-- 2010-06-17T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/heebner-s-hold-on-top-fund-spot-slips-as-cgm-focus-slumps-for-third-year.html

          
          
             Ken Heebner  is mired in his third
straight year near the bottom of the mutual-fund return
rankings, threatening his status as the top-performing U.S.
stock-picker of the new century.  
 The $3 billion  CGM Focus Fund , which Heebner runs from
Boston, is the only domestic stock fund to trail at least 96
percent of peers in 2008, 2009 and again this year, according to
research firm Morningstar Inc. The fund has lost 54 percent
since June 30, 2008, compared with the 8.7 percent decline by
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , a proxy for the U.S. stock
market and the fund’s benchmark.  
 “He’s been in all the wrong sectors at all the wrong
times,” said  Jonathan Rahbar , a fund analyst for Chicago-based
Morningstar.  
 The nosedive rivals that of  Bill Miller , the Legg Mason
Inc. fund manager who beat the S&P 500 for a record 15
consecutive years, then dropped to the  back of the pack  in 2006
through 2008. Like Miller, Heebner has lost investors, with net
withdrawals of $1.8 billion since August 2008, according to
Morningstar. Unlike Miller, he lagged behind the rest of the
market last year, gaining 10 percent while U.S. stock funds on
average rose 33 percent. Miller’s Value Trust was up 41 percent.  
 Even with the losses, CGM Focus returned an average of 17
percent a year in the decade ended May 31, the highest among
more than 3,200 U.S. diversified mutual funds, Morningstar’s
data show. In second place was  Lord Abbett Micro Cap Value ,
which gained 14 percent.  
 Investors Turn Elsewhere  
 Steven Roge , who buys mutual funds for clients, said the
ballooning of Heebner’s assets in 2008, when CGM Focus had net
deposits of $3.3 billion through August after soaring 80 percent
the previous year, convinced him there were better places to
invest.  
 “When a fund attracts assets that quickly, we worry about
a manager’s ability to handle it,” said Roge, whose Bohemia,
New York-based firm, R.W. Roge & Co., oversees $200 million.  
 Heebner, co-founder of Capital Growth Management LP, wasn’t
available to comment, Martha Maguire, a spokeswoman for the
firm, said in an e-mail. Capital Growth is part of Natixis
Global Asset Management, a unit of French bank  Natixis SA .  
 The 69-year-old Heebner is known for making concentrated
bets in industries from homebuilding to commodities and for his
willingness to shift gears quickly. He also bets on falling
stock prices, a technique called short selling that many funds
don’t pursue.  
 Hurt by Financials  
 CGM Focus fell 6.3 percent this year through June 15 as the
S&P 500 rose 0.9 percent, including dividends, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The fund was hurt in the period by declines in financial
stocks and commodity producers. New York-based  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. , its second-largest holding, lost 19 percent. Its
third-biggest stake, miner  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc .
of Phoenix, dropped 16 percent. Ford Motor Co., the Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker and CGM Focus’s top position, was up 16
percent.  
 Heebner in the first quarter bought new stakes in miners
including Cleveland, Ohio-based  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc .
and  BHP Billiton Ltd . of Melbourne, according to a May 14 filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. He sold
holdings in Internet companies  Google Inc.  of Mountain View,
California, and Seattle-based  Amazon.com Inc.   
 Metal and mining stocks accounted for 36 percent of his
holdings as of March 31, the filing shows. Bank stocks
represented 16 percent of the portfolio, the second-largest
position. In addition to Goldman Sachs, Heebner held Morgan
Stanley and Citigroup Inc., both based in New York, and
Pittsburgh-based  PNC Financial Services Group Inc.   
 Financial Crisis  
 Returns started to falter in the second half of 2008, when
Heebner’s holdings of energy, metals and agriculture stocks
began to tumble. After selling the commodity stocks, he bought
financials, including insurers such as Hartford, Connecticut-
based  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. , according to
filings with the SEC.  
 “The escalating financial crisis took its toll on these
issues during the fall,” Heebner wrote in the fund’s 2008
annual report.  Financial stocks  fell 38 percent in the fourth
quarter of that year, following the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September, Bloomberg data show. CGM
Focus dropped 48 percent for the year, compared with a decline
of 37 percent by the S&P 500.  
 Missing the Rally  
 Heebner sold his insurance holdings at a loss in the first
quarter of 2009, he said in that year’s annual report with the
SEC. The timing hurt, as many of those stocks soared after the
market reached a 12-year low in March. Hartford almost tripled
in the final nine months of 2009.  
 Heebner’s delay in shifting back to stocks that could
benefit from the rebounding economy in 2009 “diminished the
fund’s overall performance,” he wrote.  
 When CGM Focus didn’t bounce back in 2009, Brian Smith, a
financial adviser based in Vienna, Virginia, decided to reduce
his holdings. “It was too easy to find things that were moving
up,” he said in a telephone interview.  
 Dennis Marin, who also owns the fund for clients, decided
to stick with Heebner.  
 “Over the next three to five years our bet is that we will
do well with him,” said Marin, president of Erie, Pennsylvania-
based Wedgewood Investors Inc., which manages $600 million.  
 Hot to Cold  
 In May 2008, about a month before the fund’s assets peaked
at $10.3 billion, Fortune magazine called Heebner “America’s
hottest investor.” In the first seven years of the last decade,
CGM Focus returned 32 percent annually while the S&P 500 gained
less than 2 percent a year. Heebner has run the fund since it
was created in 1997.  
 In 2000 and 2001 he profited by betting against technology
stocks. At the same time he began buying homebuilders such as
Miami-based  Lennar Corp . ahead of the boom in construction and
home prices.  
 By the start of 2005, before homebuilding stocks began
their decline, he had sold them and moved into energy and
commodity companies. The price of oil more than tripled between
the end of 2004 and the middle of 2008, Bloomberg data show.  
 “Historically he has done phenomenally well knowing when
to rotate,” said Rahbar of Morningstar.  
 The fund’s wins and losses are magnified by its
concentration. CGM Focus’s top 10 holdings represented 73
percent of assets of as March 31, Morningstar data show. Its
turnover ratio -- a measure of how much the portfolio changes in
a year -- is 464 percent, more than four times greater than
peers, Morningstar said.  
 The declines since 2008 “don’t indicate Heebner has lost
his talent or his expertise,” said  Ronald Sugameli , manager of
the $130 million  New Century Alternative Strategies Portfolio,  a
mutual fund that invests in other mutual funds.  
 CGM Focus represented about 1.5 percent of Sugameli’s fund
as of May 31, Bloomberg data show.  
 While he expects Heebner’s performance to bounce back,
Sugameli isn’t planning to boost his holdings of CGM Focus, he
said in a telephone interview. Given the fund’s volatility,
Sugameli said, “it is best used in small doses.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The nosedive rivals that of Bill Miller, the Legg Mason Inc. fund manager. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
