-- Egypt's Central Bank Keeps Interest Rate on Hold as Inflation Subsides
-- Mahmoud Kassem
-- 2010-06-17T16:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/egypt-s-central-bank-keeps-interest-rate-on-hold-as-inflation-subsides.html

          
          
             The Egyptian  central bank  kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at its lowest level since
November 2006, as inflation slowed.  
 The Monetary Policy Committee left the overnight deposit
rate at 8.25 percent, and also kept the overnight lending rate
at 9.75 percent, the Cairo-based central bank said on its
website today. All seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast that the bank would keep rates unchanged.  
 Urban inflation slowed to 10.5 percent in May from 11.4
percent the previous month. Economic growth in the most populous
Arab country has slowed since 2008 as the global financial
crisis has hurt revenue from the Suez Canal, tourism and foreign
direct investment.  
 Inflation “remains elevated, reflecting the impact of last
year’s unfavorable shock related to fruits and vegetables,”
 Rania Al-Mashat , sub-governor at the bank’s monetary policy
unit, said in a statement today. Still, the bank sees inflation
as subdued enough to maintain interest rates, she said.  
 “This was expected,” Reham El-Desoki, senior economist at
Cairo-based Beltone Financial, said. “It’s not likely that we
will see the emergence of non-food inflation at least by the end
of the year.”  
 Egypt’s economy expanded 5 percent in the last quarter of
2009. The government expects growth of more than 5 percent in
the fiscal year ending June 30, compared with 4.7 percent the
previous year. That’s still below the average of 7 percent
achieved in the three fiscal years through June 2008.  
 Core Inflation  
 Investment in Egypt may be damped by economic uncertainty
in Europe, the central bank said.  
 The rate of core inflation, which excludes the price of
fruits and vegetables along with regulated prices, rose to 6.69
percent in May from 6.62 percent.  
 The central bank hasn’t publicly announced its inflation
target. Cairo-based investment bank  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE  said
in a note this week that the bank aims to keep core inflation in
a “comfort zone” of between 6 percent and 8 percent.  
 Egypt’s benchmark EGX30 stock index has gained 4.9 percent
this year, with  Talaat Moustafa Group Holdings , the biggest
publicly traded real-estate developer, rising 18 percent. The
Cairo-based company owns three hotels operated by Four Seasons
Inc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mahmoud Kassem  at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        