-- Emerging Stocks Rise for Eighth Day on Outlook for Global Economic Growth
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-06-17T21:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/emerging-market-stocks-advance-for-eighth-day-on-economic-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for an
eighth day as a Spanish bond sale eased concern European
governments will struggle to fund budget deficits and investors
speculated the global economic expansion will continue.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gained 0.4 percent to
947.20 by 5 p.m. in New York, adding to the longest stretch of
gains in two months. India’s  Sensex  Index completed its longest
string off gains in almost 10 months and Taiwan’s Taiex measure
advanced 0.8 percent. The extra yield investors demand to own
emerging-market debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 3 basis points to
3.17 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ Index.  
 The MSCI gauge extended rally to 6.5 percent after Spain
sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of 10-year and 30-year
bonds at yields lower than the prevailing market rates,
attracting bids worth as much as 2.45 times the securities on
offer. Stock valuations in developing nations are “extremely
attractive” because the global economy will keep expanding,
said UBS Wealth Management’s  Pu Yonghao .  
 “We don’t see a double dip scenario,” Pu, chief Asia
investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong. “Earnings growth
remains solid.”  
 The MSCI index has declined 9.6 percent from this year’s
high in April as China introduced policies to curb record gains
in property prices and European nations cut spending amid the
region’s debt crisis. The measure pared some a gain of as much
as 0.9 percent after an unexpected increase in jobless claims
and lower-than-estimated growth in Philadelphia manufacturing
cast doubt on the strength of the economy.  
 Indonesia Rally  
 A Federal Reserve report yesterday showed industrial
production in the U.S. rose 1.2 percent in May, the most since
August. Reports released last week also showed surging exports,
industrial production and retail sales in China, the world’s
fastest-growing major economy.  
 Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  climbed 1.1 percent to
the highest level since May 4. The gauge may rise to 17 times
estimated earnings by the end of 2010 from 14.7 currently, said
Laurentia Amica Darmawan, an analyst at PT First State
Investments Indonesia. That would be the gauge’s highest price-
earnings ratio since December 2007, and the most among current
valuations in Asia after Japan, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  dropped for the first time in
three days.  Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron ore miner, sank
1.4 percent as metals prices dropped.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA 
slid after a director at Fitch Ratings Ltd. said Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company is more likely to get a rating downgrade
than an upgrade.  
 OAO Rosneft dropped 5.2 percent in Moscow trading, the most
since May 25, on concern a planned oil export tax will reduce
 profits  and speculation BP Plc may sell its stake in Russia’s
biggest oil producer. The nation’s benchmark Micex Index fell 1
percent.  
 India’s Sensex index gained 0.9 percent.  Reliance
Communications Ltd.  rose to its highest level in almost eight
months after Hindu BusinessLine said it may raise cash by
selling stakes in a unit.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Chua Kong Ho  at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        