-- Emirate's Family Feud Raises Allegations Over Iran Trade, Unsettles U.A.E.
-- Camilla Hall
-- 2010-06-17T10:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/emirate-s-family-feud-raises-allegations-over-iran-trade-unsettles-u-a-e-.html

          
          
             An hour’s drive up the Persian Gulf
coast from the glitzy hotels and skyscrapers of Dubai, a family
feud is threatening to unsettle the United Arab Emirates.  
 The source of the spat is a power struggle between two sons
of the ruler of Ras al-Khaimah, the last of seven states to join
what is now the U.A.E. The elder, Sheikh Khalid bin Saqr al-
Qassimi, who was stripped of the title of crown prince in 2003,
alleges his younger half-brother and current heir, Sheikh Saud,
helps foster trade with Iran.  
 “Any instability would be destabilizing for the whole of
the U.A.E.,” said  Christopher Davidson , a professor of Middle
East studies at Durham University in the U.K. “Such instability
would also open the door for further external interference,
given its strategic location close to Iran.”  
 Ras al-Khaimah is 60 miles (97 kilometers) from Iran on the
Strait of Hormuz, an artery for a fifth of the world’s oil
supply. The U.A.E. is a key American ally in the Gulf and Sheikh
Khalid’s allegations, rejected by Sheikh Saud, come as the U.S.
and United Nations implement additional sanctions against Iran,
broadening an arms embargo and toughening trade limits.  
 The U.S. and its allies suspect Iran’s nuclear program is
aimed at building a bomb. Iran says it nuclear installations are
for peaceful purposes.  
 Emirates’ Image  
 Ships from Dubai leave for Iran laden with consumer goods
every day. Iran accounted for 7.5 percent of U.A.E. exports in
2008, according to the  CIA World Factbook . Trade between the two
countries exceeded $12 billion in the 12 months to March 20,
2008, the Iranian state-run  Fars News Agency  reported.  
 “The U.A.E. will be extremely keen not to create an image
that they are trying to get around the trade sanctions,” said
 Amr Hamzawy , research director and senior associate of the
Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut.  
 The ruler of Ras al-Khaimah, Sheikh Saqr bin Mohammed al-
Qassimi, 92, is ailing in a hospital in Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E.
capital, escalating concerns over the future of his territory.
He deposed Sheikh Khalid, 66, in June 2003 and replaced him with
Sheikh Saud, 54.  
 The Guardian newspaper reported last week that Sheikh
Khalid was preparing a political coup against his brother.
 Khater Massaad , an adviser to Sheikh Saud and head of the Ras
al-Khaimah Investment Authority, said Sheikh Khalid poses no
threat to the leadership.  
 “There was never and will never be any coup in Ras al-
Khaimah,” he said in an interview in the emirate on June 9.
Sheikh Saud was appointed by his father, with support from
U.A.E. founding patriarch  Sheikh Zayed ,  Massaad  said.  
 Trade Zone  
 Similar to Dubai, Ras al-Khaimah invested to compensate for
its lack of oil and gas wealth, including opening the Saqr Port
Authority and the RAK Free Trade Zone, which offers companies a
100 percent tax exemption. The sheikhdom is home to one of the
world’s largest  ceramics  companies,  RAK Ceramics , which exports
to more than 150 countries, according to its website.  
 Since being removed seven years ago, Sheikh Khalid has
sought backing in Washington, telling U.S. lawmakers that Ras
al-Khaimah is being used to sidestep U.S. and UN sanctions
against Iran, an allegation Massaad says is “nonsense.”  
 U.S. State Department spokesman Philip Crowley said the
U.S. was “very satisfied with our close and ongoing
counterterrorism cooperation with the UAE.”  
 U.A.E. exports to the U.S. rose by 53 percent between 2000
and 2009, to $1.49 billion, according to  government statistics .
Last year, the two countries  signed  a bilateral agreement for
peaceful nuclear cooperation.  
 Shared Concerns  
 “Sheikh Khalid does not believe you can put a price on the
shared security concerns of the U.S. and U.A.E. when it comes to
issues like terrorism and Iran,” Jason Kinney, a spokesman for
Sheikh Khalid, said by e-mail on June 15.  
 The federal U.A.E. government has let the succession
dispute in Ras al-Khaimah harm the U.A.E.’s reputation and raise
questions about its overall stability, said Abdelkhaleq Abdulla,
professor of political science at Emirates University in Al Ain.
The government in Abu Dhabi wasn’t available for comment.  
 “The U.A.E. is now paying the price because the leadership
was reluctant to jump in sooner,” to settle differences between
the would-be rulers, Abdulla said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sheikh Saqr bin Mohammed al-Qassimi, left, ruler of Ras al-Khaimah U.A.E., the ousted crown prince Sheikh Khalid bin Saqr al-Qassimi, center, and Sheikh Saud during the GCC Cup Formula 2000 championship. Photographer: Nasser Younes/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
