-- Japanese Bonds Rise on Kan's Plan to Reduce Public Debt, Global Slowdown
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-06-18T07:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/ten-year-government-bonds-may-advance-for-second-day-on-signs-of-slowdown.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  rose for a second day
after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  vowed to reduce the world’s
largest public  debt  and said he will consider increasing the
consumption tax.  
 Benchmark  bonds also completed a second weekly gain before
reports next week economists said will show German business
confidence declined and U.S. new home sales dropped, signaling
the global economic recovery is losing momentum. Ten-year yields
fell to the lowest in a week as credit-default swaps for
Japanese government bonds dropped for a second week.  
 “The fiscal consolidation plan helped soothe the anxiety
about swelling debt,” said  Yuichi Kodama , chief economist in
Tokyo at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co., Japan’s third-largest
life insurer. “Kan’s stance marked a clear contrast to his
predecessor who pushed for a big spending policy.”  
 The yield on the 10-year bond dropped two basis points to
1.20 percent as of 3:50 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent
security due June 2020 rose 0.18 yen to 100.892 yen. The yield
earlier dropped to 1.195 percent, the lowest since June 10. It
fell three basis points this week.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery climbed 0.27
this week to 140.61 on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 ‘Rehabilitate’ Finances  
 “Unless we work on fiscal rehabilitation, an international
organization such as the International Monetary Fund could
control our fiscal management,”  Kan  told reporters late
yesterday in Tokyo. “We must rehabilitate our finances with our
own power without relying on other countries.”  
 The prime minister said he would consider the opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party ’s proposal to raise the consumption tax
to 10 percent. The earliest Japan could increase the tax would
be the fall of 2012, DPJ Policy Chief  Koichiro Genba  said.  
 “If a tax increase was implemented before Japan can regain
the economic strength to achieve autonomous recovery, it would
pose serious risks to the economy,” said  Seiji Shiraishi , chief
economist for Japan at HSBC Holdings Plc. in Tokyo. “The tax
plan will support the debt market not only from a viewpoint of
supply and demand conditions but also from the economic
fundamentals perspective.”  
 Japan’s government also pledged to cut taxes on businesses
and nurture the environment and health care industries as part
of plans to defeat deflation and end two decades of stagnation.  
 Corporate Tax Cut  
 The government pledged in its medium-term economic plan
today to bring the corporate tax rate down to a level
“commensurate” with other leading nations. That rate is
“about 25 percent,”  Yosuke Kondo , parliamentary secretary for
the Trade Ministry, said in a briefing yesterday. Firms in Tokyo
pay a levy, including local taxes, of 40.7 percent.  
 Japan’s bonds also rose on speculation Europe’s lingering
debt crisis is slowing the global recovery, boosting demand for
the safety of debt.  
 The  Ifo institute ’s German  business climate  index fell to
101 in June from 101.5 the previous month, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the June 22 report. Purchases of new U.S.
homes slid 14.7 percent in May, according to a separate survey
before a June 23 release.  
 “The slew of economic data is beginning to show signs of a
slowdown, weighing on risk sentiment,” said  Masahide Tanaka , a
senior strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit
of Japan’s second-largest banking group. “Bonds may continue to
fare well.”  
 The cost to protect Japanese government debt from default
fell six basis points this week to 89.775, according to prices
from CMA DataVision.  
 “The risk premium investors demand to hold Japanese debt is
likely to decline” on news of the government’s financial plans,
said  Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist in Tokyo at Citigroup
Global Markets Japan Inc., a unit of New York-based Citigroup
Inc. “The market had not prepared for an early increase in the
consumption-tax rate.”  
 Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
debt against default and traders use them to speculate on credit
quality. An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness and a drop shows improvement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        