-- England Coach Capello Ready to Keep Green in Team: Soccer Roundup
-- Peter-Joseph Hegarty
-- 2010-06-17T10:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/england-coach-capello-ready-to-keep-green-in-team-soccer-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  
 Green for Go  
 England manager  Fabio Capello  is ready to keep goalkeeper
Robert Green in the team for tomorrow’s World Cup group game
against Algeria in Cape Town, the  Daily Mirror  said.  
 Capello said Green will keep his place if he can prove he
wasn’t affected mentally by his blunder that allowed the U.S. a
1-1 draw in the first game, the newspaper said.  
 The Sun  says Capello faces another key decision: whether to
keep  Emile Heskey  in the team or go with Tottenham’s  Jermain Defoe .  
 Capello is concerned that the Jabulani ball is not suited
to playing high balls up to a target man such as Heskey, and
that England needs to keep it on the ground more, the Sun added.  
 The manager confirmed midfielder  Gareth Barry  will play
after recovering from injury.  
 Race for Ozil  
 Chelsea may join Arsenal and Manchester City in the race to
sign Germany midfielder Mesut Ozil, the  Daily Mail  reported.  
 The Werder Bremen player is rated at 20 million pounds ($30
million), and Arsenal sees him as a replacement for Cesc
Fabregas, the Mail added. Fabregas has been linked with a move
to Barcelona after the World Cup.  
 Juve Wants Gallas  
 Juventus has offered a two-year deal to Arsenal defender
 William Gallas , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  
 He’ll be released by the Gunners on June 30 after failing
to agree on a new deal, the Mirror added.  
 Gallas turns 33 in August and it’s Arsenal policy not to
give contracts of more than one year to players over 30, the
paper said.  
 Silva for England?  
 Spain midfielder  David Silva  has become more in favor of
playing in England’s Premier League and is deciding whether to
join Manchester City or Chelsea, who both have a “firm
interest” in him,  the Guardian  reported.  
 His club Valencia wants about 40 million euros ($49
million) for Silva, a fee that the two English clubs find
excessive, the newspaper added.  
 Sunderland is preparing a bid for Paraguay World Cup
striker  Nelson Haedo Valdez , according to  the Mirror .  
 Borussia Dortmund wants about 10 million euros for the 26-
year-old, the paper said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        