-- Merck KGaA Resumes Clinical Trial in Lung Cancer With Stimuvax Vaccine
-- Naomi Kresge
-- 2010-06-17T20:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/merck-kgaa-resumes-clinical-trial-in-lung-cancer-with-stimuvax-vaccine.html

          
          
             Merck KGaA  is resuming tests of its
experimental cancer vaccine Stimuvax in lung tumor patients
after getting clearance from U.S. regulators.  
 Authorities have lifted the hold on two of the three late-
stage clinical trials of the therapy, a global lung cancer trial
and a trial that focuses on lung tumor patients in Asia, the
Darmstadt, Germany-based maker of drugs and chemicals said in an
e-mailed statement today. Merck said it remains in talks with
the Food and Drug Administration about the future of the third
trial, in breast cancer patients.  
 The FDA put Merck’s Stimuvax trial program on hold in March
after a patient with a blood malignancy developed a brain
infection while taking the vaccine. The German drugmaker has
said Stimuvax may generate as much as $1 billion in annual
sales, boosting a portfolio of cancer medicines now led by
Erbitux, which generated sales of 697 million euros ($855
million) last year.  Oncothyreon Inc.  licensed the vaccine to
Merck KGaA.  
 “This is another set of good news from the pharma division
that had had some mishaps in recent months,”  Elmar Kraus , a
Frankfurt-based analyst for DZ Bank AG, wrote to clients.  
 Oncothyreon, based in Seattle, rose 42 cents, or 12
percent, to $4.03 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite  trading . The shares had plunged 27 percent when the
studies were suspended on March 23. Merck fell less than 1
percent to 61.85 euros in Frankfurt trading.  
 Merck said June 8 it had resubmitted its FDA application for
the experimental multiple sclerosis pill cladribine. The
regulator rebuffed the initial application for the experimental
pill in November, saying it was incomplete.  
 Novartis AG , the Swiss drugmaker racing Merck to get the
first pill for multiple sclerosis to patients, won an FDA
panel’s backing on June 10 for its pill Gilenia. The agency is
scheduled to decide by September whether to approve the Novartis
therapy.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        