-- Estonia Approves Law Limiting Profits at Tallinna Vesi, Water Utilities
-- Ott Ummelas
-- 2010-06-17T08:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/estonia-approves-law-limiting-profits-at-tallinna-vesi-water-utilities.html

          
          
             Estonia’s parliament adopted
measures to limit profit at the country’s largest water and
heating utilities, including  AS Tallinna Vesi , a utility that
supplies water to Estonia’s capital.  
 Lawmakers voted 52-3 to approve the bill that requires the
biggest utilities to seek an approval from the competition board
for tariffs, which have to be based on “reasonable
profitability.”  
 Passing the bill will lower water tariffs in the capital,
home to almost a third of the country’s 1.3 million population,
by up to a quarter in coming years, Urmas Reinsalu, a lawmaker
with the coalition Isamaa ja Res Publica Liit said in parliament
yesterday. Heating prices may decline by 10-15 percent, Ken-
Marti Vaher, a lawmaker with the same party, said yesterday.  
 Tallinna Vesi stock has declined 27 percent since March 9,
when the parliament started discussing the bill. It is the worst
performer in Tallinn this year with a 16 percent slide, compared
with a 34 percent gain for OMX Tallinn index.  
 The company will comment on the bill in a statement “later
today,” spokesman Priit Koff said in a phone interview.  
 The competition watchdog recommended on Dec. 1 that
Tallinna Vesi lower tariffs because of “unreasonably” high
profitability.  
 The Tallinn-based company’s return on capital employed, or
the ratio of operating profit to total assets less current
liabilities, has exceeded a “justified” level of 8.3 percent
more than twice in 2007 and 2008, considering its monopoly, the
watchdog said then, citing an analysis. The company reported net
income of 340 million krooni ($27 million) for 2009 on revenue
of 772.4 million, according to its annual report.  
 Water tariffs agreed between Tallinna Vesi and the Tallinn
municipality, which has a 34.7 percent stake, breach the
country’s constitution and the utilities’ law, Justice
Chancellor Indrek Teder said on March 24.  
 Veolia Water UK Plc, a unit of Paris-based  Veolia
Environnement SA , agreed to purchase  United Utilities’ Group
Plc’s  shareholding in United Utilities Tallinn B.V, which owns
35.3 percent of the shares of Tallinna Vesi, the company said on
June 14. Veolia Water will own 26.5 percent of Tallinna Vesi
after the deal.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        