-- ETFs Gone Wild
-- Edward Robinson
-- 2010-06-17T15:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/etfs-gone-wild.html

          
          
             Exchange-traded funds--many
stuffed with exotic derivatives--are shaking up the mutual
fundindustry. Regulators want to make sure they don’t become the
next financial time bomb.  
 The skunk works at IShares’ headquarters in San Francisco is
buzzing. Researchers in the development lab pore over data
flashing across computer screens while colleagues refill their
mugs at the coffee bar and huddle in conference rooms
illuminated by translucent blue partitions.  
 These brainiacs, who create the exchange-traded funds that
have made the BlackRock Inc. unit the kingpin of the global ETF
market, took a radical departure in November from the index
trackers IShares has churned out for a decade. They released a
hedge fund in a box.  
 The  IShares Diversified Alternatives Trust ETF  packs the
complex bets favored by hedge fund managers into one security.
There’s no rock star money manager calling the shots; a computer
program monitors the fund daily. Anyone with about $50 and a
brokerage account can buy a share of an ETF that uses
derivatives to bet on swings in stocks, government bonds,
currencies and commodities around the world, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its July issue.  
 “There’s going to be a whole rash of these things coming
out,” says  Michael Latham , head of IShares’ U.S. and Canada
operations.  
 A physicist named Nathan Most invented the ETF more than 20
years ago as a simple mutual fund that trades on bourses like a
stock. Fund providers are now unleashing a new breed of
“extreme ETFs” that use short selling, leverage and
derivatives in a bid to capture a larger share of investor
assets.  
 Double and Triple Returns  
 The creators range from BlackRock to startups founded by
Ivy League professors. And the ETFs come in an array of styles.
While “hedge fund replicators” mimic the strategies of
exclusive investment pools, other ETFs offer investors easy
entree to the volatile world of commodity futures trading. Some
 “leveraged and inverse”  securities even promise to double and
triple returns on moves in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
other benchmarks.  
 Assets in more than 260 such funds have soared to $40
billion globally from virtually zero in about four years,
according to BlackRock.  
 Fund providers and registered investment advisers say that
if used judiciously, extreme ETFs can help investors curb
losses. In the first week of May, the Greek debt crisis
triggered the most-volatile swings in U.S. stocks in more than a
year. The S&P 500 dived more than 7 percent in five trading
days. The ProShares Advisors LLC’s  UltraShort S&P 500 ETF , which
uses futures contracts and swaps to bet against the index,
surged 17 percent during the same period.  
 ‘It’s Insanity’  
 “If you’re not hedged these days, you’re going to get
killed,” says  Adam Patti , the chief executive officer of
IndexIQ Advisors LLC, a firm in Rye Brook, New York, that copies
hedge fund-style investing in  ETFs.   
 John Bogle  counters that extreme ETFs may be the next
financial concoction to blow up in investors’ faces.  
 Bogle, the creator of the first index mutual fund in 1975,
says these complex securities subvert the discipline of buy-and-
hold investing and encourage investors to chase market-beating
returns by speculating like day traders. The ProShares
UltraShort S&P 500 ETF  plunged 9 percent  on May 10 after the
stock market rallied on news that the European Union set up a
bailout fund for indebted nations.  
 “It’s insanity,” says Bogle, 81, the founder of Vanguard
Group Inc. “This is a classic case of Wall Street trying to
capitalize on the worst instincts of investors.”  
 Some investment advisers say hedge fund replicators and
their ilk may be twisting the innovative ETF into an overly
complex and murky security that is dependent on derivatives.  
 Reining in Excesses  
 “I couldn’t possibly justify putting clients’ money into
those because they’re brand new, not tested, and I don’t know
what’s in them,” says  Andrew Mathieson , the founder and
managing member of Fairview Capital Investment Management LLC in
Greenbrae, California. “It looks like just another way for
investors to get plucked.”  
 Investors can examine the holdings for ETFs managed by
IShares and other fund providers online.  
 “We believe innovation means good ideas coupled with good
execution, and we focus on bringing products to market that
provide greater access to a range of asset classes or investment
strategies in efficient ways,” says  Noel Archard , IShares’ head
of product development.  
 Regulators are moving to rein in possible excesses. On
March 25, the Securities and Exchange Commission announced it
was deferring approval of new ETFs that use derivatives as its
staff reviews whether fund managers are stuffing too much
leverage and complexity into offerings aimed at retail
investors.  
 Too Risky  
 And in June 2009, the SEC and the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority Inc. (Finra) issued a joint alert warning
investors that returns in leveraged and inverse ETFs could
deviate widely from their underlying indexes when held longer
than a day.  
 Finra, the Washington-based organization that polices
broker-dealers, has several investigations under way to see if
investors are being sold ETFs they may not understand or that
may be too risky for their needs, says  James Shorris , the
agency’s acting chief of enforcement. Shorris is concerned about
the role ETFs are playing in what he calls the “retailization”
of leverage, derivatives and other hedge fund-style investing
techniques.  
 “Hedge funds are restricted to high-net-worth individuals
and institutions for a reason; they are very complicated, and
you have to take the risk of losing everything,” Shorris says.
“It would surprise us if retail brokers could explain the risks
satisfactorily to their customers.”  
 Garnering Momentum  
 All this action comes as ETFs continue to explode in
popularity and draw investors away from traditional mutual
funds. Assets in ETFs worldwide have more than doubled to $1.1
trillion since 2005, and with 833 new funds in the pipeline the
market will soar another 20 to 30 percent this year, says
 Deborah Fuhr , BlackRock’s global head of ETF research.  
 While mutual funds, with $19.5 trillion in assets, still
dwarf ETFs, these upstart securities are garnering momentum: In
2009, ETF providers raked in net sales of $118 billion in the
U.S., more than two times the $54 billion collected by index
mutual funds, according to  Loren Fox , a senior analyst at
Strategic Insight Mutual Fund Research and Consulting LLC.  
 On some days more than 4 out of 10 trades on U.S. stock
exchanges involve ETFs, says  Tom Lydon , the editor of
ETFtrends.com, an industry website. Following the “flash
crash” of U.S. equities on May 6, more than 70 percent of the
trades canceled due to  excessive declines  involved ETFs,
according to the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  
 More Exotic Specimens  
 Some of the biggest names in asset management are jumping
into the arena. Legg Mason Inc., Pacific Investment Management
Co. and T. Rowe Price Group Inc. are in various stages of
unveiling actively managed ETFs that aim to outperform market
benchmarks the same way nonindex mutual funds do. And IShares
has cracked the $2.7 trillion market for 401(k) retirement plans
in the U.S. by selling its ETFs to small and mid-size companies.  
 “It’s safe to say ETFs aren’t a fad,” Lydon says.  
 The creators of ETFs are cranking out ever more  exotic
specimens  to bolster the asset management fees they collect from
investors. ETFs are cheap: The average plain vanilla one charges
investors about 5 cents for every $10 they invest compared with
9 cents for stock index-based mutual funds, according to
Morningstar Inc.  
 IShares and its competitors fetch far more money for
complex funds. IShares’  Diversified Alternatives Trust ETF  costs
0.95 percent, and the ProShares UltraShort S&P 500 ETF charges
0.91 percent.  
 Exorbitant Fees  
 The exotic securities cater to a broad spectrum of
investors.  
 “You can use the exact same product for the most
sophisticated institution and for mom-and-pop investors,” says
IShares’ Latham, a burly Californian who grew up surfing the
Pacific Ocean just 15 miles (24 kilometers) south of his office.
“Goldman Sachs is buying the same product as my mom, and for
the same price.”  
 Fund providers are also peddling fancy ETFs to investors
who have soured on paying exorbitant fees to hedge funds. Many
of these firms blocked clients from withdrawing cash during the
credit crash, and about 2,500 out of 9,050 hedge funds in the
U.S. shut down in 2008 and 2009, according to data compiled by
Hedge Fund Research Inc.  
 Lack of Liquidity  
 The  IQ Hedge Multi-Strategy Tracker ETF , with fees of 0.75
percent, is a bargain compared with the typical hedge fund that
charges 2 percent on assets under management and 20 percent of
gains, says IndexIQ’s Patti. Plus, shareholders can bail out of
the ETF anytime they choose. The City of New Haven City
Employees Retirement Fund invested $8 million in Patti’s
strategy.  
 “The trustees were turned off by the lack of liquidity and
transparency in traditional hedge funds,” says Derek Ciampini,
a consultant at a unit of Ameriprise Financial Inc. who advised
New Haven’s pension board.  
 In the late 1980s, Most, then head of product development
at the American Stock Exchange, set out to boost  volume  by
making mutual funds tradable securities. Most, a polymath who’d
worked as an acoustical engineer and commodities trader, faced a
problem: A mutual fund would constantly redeem shares as it
traded, generating too many taxable transactions. So he retooled
the mutual fund to make redemptions with securities instead of
cash, limiting capital-gains taxes. That made ETFs cheaper and
opened the door to continuous trading.  
 The First ETF  
 “That was the key concept of the ETF from which all other
features evolved,” Most wrote in a foreword to Exchange Traded
Funds by Jim Wiandt and Will McClatchy (Wiley, 2001). Most died
in 2004 at the age of 90.  
 With Most’s help, State Street Corp. in 1993 brought out
the first ETF,  the SPDR S&P 500 Trust , which was dubbed the
Spider. Investors wary of the newfangled instruments mostly
shunned them for years.  
 Then in 2000,  Lee Kranefuss , head of the retail products
group at Barclays Global Investors in San Francisco, wagered
that better product development and marketing would spur a
market for ETFs. So with the support of BGI’s then-CEO Patricia
Dunn, Kranefuss created IShares at the asset management division
of London-based Barclays Plc. And he recruited Latham, an
accountant who’d climbed BGI’s management ranks since joining
the firm in 1994, to run IShares’ day-to-day operations.  
 Next Generation  
 During the next six years, IShares leapfrogged  State Street 
and brought out scores of ETFs that tracked industries,
international equities and, eventually, commodities,  currencies 
and bonds. Today, IShares manages more than $516 billion in
assets in 430-plus funds and commands 46 percent of the global
market, about twice the combined share held by No. 2 State
Street and No. 3 Vanguard, according to IShares and Bloomberg
data.  
 Latham took over as head of IShares’ U.S. and Canadian
businesses in January 2006 as pressure mounted from investors
for exotic ETFs that would hedge market volatility.  
 “We’d come out of the baby stage where the industry was
just trying to break through,” says Latham, tieless in a white
Brooks Brothers shirt and chinos at IShares’ 10-story
headquarters. “Now, it was moving into the next generation of
ETFs.”  
 In early 2007, Latham turned to Archard, the product
development chief, to mint a new line of ETFs with complex
strategies that institutions had long used but had been largely
inaccessible to Main Street investors. Archard, 40, a chatty
Philadelphian fond of plying his colleagues with Dunkin’ Donuts,
and his 20-member team occupy two floors at IShares.  
 Absolute Return  
 The open office, with its rows of computer screens and
desks stacked with books on investing theory, feels like a cross
between a trading floor and a university library. That’s fitting
given IShares’ provenance. In the late 1960s, economists  Eugene Fama ,  Myron Scholes  and  William Sharpe  tested their theories
about market efficiency and risk-return ratios at the firm that
eventually became BGI. In 1971, it pioneered the first index
strategy by tracking the performance of every equity on the New
York Stock Exchange.  
 Now Archard, who had developed ETFs at Vanguard, and his
team have created the first IShares ETF that doesn’t rely on an
underlying index.  Diversified Alternatives , which trades under
the ticker ALT, isn’t designed to produce robust returns
associated with hedge funds, according to its prospectus.  
 Instead, it’s set up to deliver modest gains regardless of
how the global economy or the financial markets behave -- what
Wall Street professionals call an absolute return. The fund’s
paramount goal is to take half the risk of the average equity
portfolio by going long and short in broad groups of securities,
says the prospectus.  
 Three Strategies  
 The ETF blends three strategies that many hedge funds use
to insulate their performance from wild swings in the markets.
The “momentum/reversal” approach tries to anticipate which way
a group of equity indexes, interest rates and commodities are
going to move by looking at price history. If a stock index’s
recent surge exceeds past performance, the ETF goes long; a
slide below historical levels cues a short position. The other
two approaches hunt for baskets of securities that are under- or
overpriced and exploit changing spreads between groups of fixed-
income securities and commodities contracts.  
 The fund executes all three strategies with futures
contracts and currency forward contracts. On May 10, the ETF was
bullish on the  CAC 40 index  of French stocks and the Australian
dollar, and it was shorting the euro, Japanese government 10-
year bonds and the  S&P/TSX 60 index  of Canadian equities.  
 Future ETFs  
 A computer program, closely monitored by a team of
portfolio managers, oversees the fund’s holdings. The ETF, which
has a  market value  of $55 million, has slipped 0.17 percent from
its debut on Nov. 16 through May 27, about the same as the  HFRX
Global Hedge Fund Index .  
 Latham says this fund is a prelude to future ETFs. In
December, BlackRock acquired BGI for $15.2 billion, making the
New York-based company the No. 1 global investment firm, with
$3.3 trillion in assets. Latham is now working to package
BlackRock’s investment strategies in IShares’ ETFs. One area of
research: tailoring funds to address specific liabilities for
retirees. If inflation were to send a client’s health-care costs
higher, for example, the ETF would automatically adjust its bets
to produce extra income for a client’s medical bills.  
 Entrepreneurs are devising their own experimental ETFs.
SummerHaven Investment Management LLC, a 14-month-old firm in
Stamford, Connecticut, created an index to tame the
unpredictable gyrations of commodity derivatives.  
 One-Room Office  
 The company, which plans to manage an ETF pegged to its
 SummerHaven Dynamic Commodity Index  this year, hardly seems a
hotbed of financial engineering. Its four partners share a one-
room office subleased from Basso Capital Management, a hedge
fund, with a view of Interstate 95.  
 SummerHaven’s founders know their way around the arcane
world of raw materials investing: K. Geert Rouwenhorst, 50, is a
Yale School of Management finance professor who authored a
research paper called “Facts and Fantasies About Commodity
Futures” in 2004 with  Gary Gorton , then a professor at the
Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Gorton, now at
Yale, is a senior adviser to SummerHaven.  
 Partner  Kurt Nelson , 40, was head of UBS AG’s commodity
index business in Stamford until last year.  
 Startling Results  
 Rouwenhorst and Gorton showed that from 1959 to 2004,
commodities futures didn’t move in sync with stocks yet
delivered about the same level of returns. Moreover, the
contracts posed less risk for investors than equities, which was
startling given the reputation of commodities for volatility.  
 In a 2007 follow-up paper, the duo, joined by Professor
Fumio Hayashi from the University of Tokyo, demonstrated that
futures for commodities with low inventories consistently
outperformed those with abundant stockpiles.  
 “These guys brought academic respectability to commodities
and showed it’s a real asset class and not just a place for
speculators who go broke in pork bellies,” says Jim Rogers, an
investor who called the bull market in raw materials in the late
1990s and is chairman of Rogers Holdings in Singapore.  
 Rouwenhorst, a data hound who studied the commodities-
pricing treatises of economists  John Maynard Keynes  and Nicholas
Kaldor, wanted to convert his thesis into an investing strategy.
Beginning in the fall of 2009, he and Nelson, along with
SummerHaven partner  Adam Dunsby , assembled a basket of futures
contracts for 27 commodities ranging from platinum to unleaded
gasoline to hogs. Then they formulated algorithms to discover
which commodities were fetching higher prices for immediate
delivery rather than in the future, a pattern called
backwardation that signals supplies are dwindling. And they also
factored in short-term price momentum.  
 Nickel and Cotton  
 The index selects the 14 top contenders every month. In
March, the portfolio rotated in nickel and cotton futures and
rotated out aluminum and natural gas. And by giving the 14
contracts equal weight, the index decreases the risk of buying
just crude or gold.  
 “When you think about stocks, you think about earnings,”
Rouwenhorst says in the precise accent of his native Holland.
“So what do you think about with commodity futures? The answer
is inventories.”  
 The SummerHaven index was up 8 percent in the 12 months
ended on May 27 compared with an 2 percent increase by the
bellwether Goldman Sachs Commodity Index. In December,  United
States Commodity Fund LLC , an Alameda, California-based company
that manages energy ETFs, announced it would distribute a
SummerHaven fund.  
 Next Big Fiasco  
 Some money managers say investors should avoid extreme ETFs
and get back to basics by acquiring undervalued stocks and
holding them for the long term.  
 “We should be dialing this stuff down, but instead we’re
going the opposite way,” says  Robert Olstein , the chairman and
chief investment officer of Olstein Capital Management LP, a
mutual fund provider in Purchase, New York. “When all these
funds come unglued, this is going to be the next big fiasco on
the Street.”  
 Many investment professionals are telling their clients it
may be riskier not to use these new ETFs. The S&P 500  fell 2.7
percent  annually in the decade ended on Dec. 31, 2009.
Investors, especially baby boomers on the cusp of retirement,
have to consider the prospect of depending on income from their
portfolios in a bear market.  
 “Most people want simple solutions, but buy-and-hold
investing only works in a bull market,” says  Louis Stanasolovich , CEO of Legend Financial Advisors Inc. in
Pittsburgh. “Investors can be more nimble now; the tools are
out there.”  
 Future of Investing  
 Investors are warming to this brave new world. In April
2009, Frank Transue, a Chicago-area civil engineer, agreed to
let his investment adviser plow hundreds of thousands of dollars
from his 401(k) plan into many ETFs, including one for oil
futures and another that shorts  Treasury bonds .  
 “It took some convincing because I’m a conservative
investor,” Transue, 68, says. “Now, I’m looking at moving a
large portion of my portfolio into ETFs.”  
 The true test for exotic new funds will come when they
demonstrate they can reap profits consistently in a volatile,
post-crash world. Then, shareholders will see whether these
newfangled ETFs are the future of investing or just another
financial experiment gone awry.  
 Edward Robinson  is a senior writer at Bloomberg Markets in San
Francisco at  edrobinson@bloomberg.net   
 #<535521.2245115.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jun/17/2010 15:51 GMT
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Photograph by Eric Millette  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Michael Latham of iShares expects a rash of ETFs. Photograph by Eric Millette 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Michael Latham of iShares expects a rash of ETFs. Photograph by Eric Millette  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
