-- EU Joins U.S. in Widening Iran Nuclear Sanctions, Draws Russian Rebuke
-- James G. Neuger
-- 2010-06-17T13:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/eu-joins-u-s-in-widening-iran-nuclear-sanctions-draws-russian-rebuke.html

          
          
             European Union governments
strengthened sanctions against Iran, following the U.S. with
measures that break the united front against the Islamic
Republic’s nuclear program.  
 The penalties will hit “key sectors of the gas and oil
industry with prohibition of new investment, technical
assistance and transfers of technologies, equipment and
services,” said a statement approved at today’s EU summit in
Brussels.  
 European curbs and financial sanctions announced yesterday
by the U.S. drew the condemnation of Russia, which sought in the
 United Nations Security Council  to shield Iran from harsher
punishment.  
 A U.S.-driven UN resolution that passed with Russia’s
backing last week foresaw curbs on Iran’s insurance and shipping
industries and a tighter arms embargo without calling for
sanctions on the oil and gas industries.  
 Russia is “extremely disappointed” with U.S. and EU
measures that “exceed the parameters” laid out by the Security
Council, Deputy Foreign Minister  Sergei Ryabkov  said today,
according to Interfax.  
 Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  yesterday threatened
“severe retaliation” against countries that slap sanctions on
the atomic activities, suspected by the U.S. and its allies as
paving the way for Iran to join the nuclear-weapons club.  
 Defense Minister  Ahmad Vahidi  said today that tighter
restrictions on weapons sales won’t have an impact because
“Iran is self-sufficient in mass production of tanks,
artillery, helicopters and warships,” the state-run  Fars  news
agency reported.  
 Iran’s Response  
 Iran has ignored three previous sets of UN Security Council
sanctions against the nuclear research, which it says is
intended for energy production to support a growing population.  
 Passed on June 9 in a 12-2 vote with one abstention, the
latest resolution also freezes the assets of 40 companies, banks
and government agencies, and widens the array of officials and
companies subject to asset freezes.  
 While silent on possible energy sanctions, the UN
resolution left the door open for curbs on Iran’s oil and gas
output by noting the “potential connection” between oil
revenue and the financing of the nuclear operations.  
 Europe’s sanctions, going beyond the letter of the
resolution, will focus on “refining, liquefaction and liquid
natural-gas technology,” according to the EU statement.  
 In line with the UN accord, EU governments will also target
“dual use” goods with potential military applications and
trade insurance, while imposing additional curbs on Iranian
banks and the cargo operations run by the Islamic Republic of
Iran Shipping Line.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        