-- EU to Push Levies on Banks, Financial-Transaction Tax at G-20
-- James G. Neuger
-- 2010-06-17T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/eu-leaders-to-push-global-taxes-on-banks-financial-transactions-at-g-20.html

          
          
             European Union leaders vowed to push
for global taxes on banks and financial transactions, setting
the stage for a conflict over worldwide regulation at next
week’s Group of 20 meeting.  
 With Germany, Britain and France pledging to impose levies
on their own banks and to clamp down on financial speculation,
the EU called for global taxes that have run into opposition
from G-20 powers such as China.  
 “We want a system of levies and taxes for financial
institutions to ensure fair burden-sharing and rein in systemic
risks,” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  told reporters after an
EU summit in Brussels yesterday. “We also want a global
system.”  
 Europe said it will put up a united front at the G-20,
which has refused to endorse a bank tax under pressure from
Canada, China and Brazil, three countries with banks that
suffered less during the 2008 financial crisis.  
 Proposals for taxes on securities transactions weren’t
spelled out in detail, with a statement by the bloc’s 27 leaders
saying only that they should be “explored and developed” in
concert with the world’s leading economies.  
 At the two-day meeting, the leaders also agreed to publish
the results of “stress tests” on major banks by the end of
July in order to prop up confidence in financial institutions
still coping with the aftermath of the 2008 market meltdown.  
 With U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  attending his first
summit, the EU’s major powers sought a common position on
reshaping the financial system to buttress recent pledges by
countries using the euro currency to offer as much as 860
billion euros ($1.1 trillion) in aid to stem the Greece-fueled
public debt crisis.  
 National Taxes  
 The statement spoke of “systems of levies and taxes on
financial institutions” at national level, allowing each
government to fashion its own policy as long as a “level
playing field” is maintained across the 27-nation EU.  
 The decision to leave the bank taxes in national hands,
instead of setting them at EU level, was essential for Cameron,
an opponent of handing more powers to the EU.  
 “We didn’t want to have some sort of European-determined
bank levy,” Cameron told reporters.  
 The bank tax being considered by U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  would raise money for the general
government budget, while other governments would create
emergency funds to prevent future banking crises and contain any
that break out.  
 Financing Fund  
 “There is a tax on banks that will feed a fund destined to
make sure that what happened to savers doesn’t happen again,”
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said.  
 The lone dissenter was the Czech Republic, which argued
that new taxes would put unwelcome constraints on its domestic
financial system and was allowed to opt out of any tax
arrangements.  
 “There are many unanswered questions that need to be dealt
with on expert levels before adopting a political decision that
would not respect differences among individual countries,”
Czech Prime Minister  Jan Fischer  said.  
 In a defeat for the EU and U.S., G-20 finance ministers and
central bank governors remained divided over a bank tax at a
June 6 meeting in Busan, South Korea, issuing a statement that
each country’s “circumstances and options” would be paramount.  
 On the transaction tax, “Not everyone is enthusiastic,
fearing that transactions will migrate from Europe,” Sarkozy
said. “We will bring this debate to the G-20 and we will take
our decision based on the reactions of the big players.”  
 G-20 leaders will consider an International Monetary Fund
impact assessment of possible bank taxes when they take up the
issue in Toronto June 26-27.  
 Canada, one of the opponents of a global tax, has proposed
forcing lenders to keep “contingent capital” on hand to spare
taxpayers the cost of future bailouts. Such securities could
convert to equity in a crisis to keep lenders remain well
capitalized.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite talks about the outlook for an expansion of the euro zone and the region's economy.
     She speaks in Brussels with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
