-- EU Stress Tests Face Investor Questions on Stringency
-- Simon Clark
-- 2010-06-18T11:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/eu-stress-tests-face-questions-over-toughness-of-terms-government-backing.html

          
          
             The European Union’s decision to
publish the results of stress tests on the region’s lenders was
welcomed by shareholders seeking more transparency. Investors
still want to know how tough the terms of the tests will be.  
 The studies will be done “ institution  by institution,”
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told reporters at an EU summit
in Brussels yesterday. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said it
was important to give “maximum transparency.” Asked how the
governments would react if the tests revealed shortcomings, she
said the EU has “taken precautions,” including a 750 billion-
euro ($928 billion) financial backstop.  
 “The results could be very helpful reassuring investors
that the European financial system is sound,” said  Andrew Milligan , the Edinburgh-based head of global strategy at
 Standard Life Investments Ltd ., which oversees about $221
billion. “The devil will be in the detail.”  
 Merkel and Sarkozy rebuffed concerns from executives
including  Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  that publishing the tests could undermine confidence
in the banks unless governments promise aid. When the U.S.
carried out similar stress tests more than a year ago, it
pledged to provide capital to banks that couldn’t raise it. The
EU still hasn’t disclosed details of its tests, including
whether they include a sovereign debt restructuring, raising
concern among money managers they may not be stringent enough.  
 ‘Bit Harsher’  
 “The problem with the stress testing, in most people’s
opinion, is fairly serious: It’s not stringent enough,” said
 Ralph Silva , an analyst at London-based Silva Research Network,
which specializes in financial-services firms.  
 The tests may be “a bit harsher” than similar ones
carried out last year, helping to boost market confidence,
Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Huw van Steenis  wrote today. The
reviews are “highly likely” to take into account holdings of
sovereign bonds,  Javier Ariztegui , deputy governor of the Bank
of Spain, said in an interview in Santander, Spain, today.  
 The decision came after Spanish government officials
unexpectedly pledged to publish results on individual banks,
becoming the first European government to do so. International
debt markets have been shut to most Spanish companies and banks
as investors lost confidence in the country,  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA  Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez  said June 14.  
 “Europe needs this because the markets are asking for
it,” Gonzalez said at a seminar in Santander, Spain.  
 ‘Could be Misinterpreted’  
 The difference in yields of Spanish bonds and their German
equivalents narrowed after the EU said it would publish the
tests. The so-called spread between the 10-year securities fell
to 202 basis points as of 12:17 p.m. in London after hitting a
euro-area record of 232 basis points yesterday.  
 Bankers and their lobby groups across Europe had opposed
publication. Deutsche Bank’s Ackermann said last week that
releasing the stress tests would be “very, very dangerous” if
government mechanisms to support European banks weren’t in place
beforehand. A spokesman for the bank declined to comment.  
 Germany’s BdB banking association, which had opposed making
the findings public, changed its stance yesterday. It now says
publication can “contribute to creating confidence and calming
the markets” as long as it doesn’t leave “room for
misinterpretation.” In London, the British Bankers’ Association
said it still opposes publication of data on individual banks.
“The results could be misinterpreted and could lead to a run on
a sound bank,”  Irving Henry , the BBA’s policy director of
prudential capital and risk, said in an interview yesterday.  
 ‘More Confidence’  
 The wider European stress tests will be published in the
second half of July “at the latest,” European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday. The EU hasn’t so
far disclosed the test criteria. The region’s 25 biggest banks
will be examined, according to  Andrew Lim , an analyst at Matrix
Corporate Capital LLP.  
 Failure to include sovereign debt exposure would “impact
the credibility” of the tests, said  Ian Gordon , a banking
analyst at  Exane BNP Paribas SA  in London. “Every piece of
withheld data gives skeptics reason to grumble that the tests
are not transparent and therefore not meaningful.”  
 The test criteria should include a possible decline in
economic growth, a fall in house prices, the banks’ ability to
fund their balance sheets, and a closing of the wholesale money
markets, said  Jane Coffey  who helps manage $51 billion at Royal
London Asset Management, including Barclays Plc stock.  
 “It should give the market more confidence that they are
not hiding anything, and that the banks are solidly based, and
if they are not, that the problem is in a small enough number of
banks,” Coffey said. “Transparency is usually good for
confidence. They won’t be doing this if it was going to cause a
banking collapse, I would guess.”  
 ‘Region-wide Assessment’  
 “We need to have a region-wide assessment to quantify and
compare the banks -- that’s what this is all about,” said  Guy de Blonay , who helps manage about 19.5 billion pounds ($29
billion) at  Jupiter Fund Management Plc  in London. “Governments
want investors to be able to quantify and appreciate the
situation on the back of official findings.”  
 The financial strength of European nations and their banks
is closely interconnected, according to Morgan Stanley analysts,
who wrote in a June 16 report that countries sharing the euro
and their banks are caught in a “vicious circle.”  
 “Sovereign rating downgrades have eroded confidence in the
balance sheets of the banks, most of which own government
bonds,” analysts  Joachim Fels  and  Elga Bartsch  wrote. “This,
together with higher borrowing costs for fiscally challenged
countries, has raised funding costs for banks in the interbank
market and in the capital markets.”  
 ‘Sovereign Risk’  
 The EU decision comes more than a year after the U.S.
released the results of stress tests it carried out on 19
financial institutions. Publication helped trigger a rally that
lifted the Standard & Poor’s Financials Index 36 percent from
the start of May through the end of last year. The Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index is  down  7.4 percent
this year. The EU tests may have less impact on markets because
of concerns about the level of government debt in Europe,
Jupiter’s De Blonay said.  
 “It’s probably not going to be as positive a reaction as
in the U.S. simply because we have an overlay of sovereign risk
on the banks in Europe,” he said.  
 European Central Bank Governing Council member  Axel Weber 
said future stress tests in the banking industry will be more
comprehensive than today’s evaluations and may include
government bonds. EU states should also provide a backstop “if
adverse scenarios materialize,” he said yesterday.  
 The cost of providing that backstop may still fuel concern
among investors that already indebted governments were taking on
too much additional borrowing, Standard Life’s Milligan said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Clark  in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, speaking in Brussels on Thursday. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Adam Cole, head of global currency strategy at RBC Capital Markets, talks about the rise in the pound since the formation of the U.K.'s coalition government.
     Cole also discusses the Europeean Union's decision to publish the results of stress tests on the region's lenders. He speaks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
