-- EU Leaders Agree to Publish Banks' Performance on Stress Tests
-- Gregory Viscusi
-- 2010-06-17T17:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/eu-will-publish-bank-stress-test-results-rebuffing-industry-s-objections.html

          
          
             European Union leaders agreed to
disclose how banks perform on stress tests, seeking to show
investors that the financial system can withstand shocks.  
 In reaching agreement at a summit today in Brussels, the EU
leaders rebuffed financial-industry executives’ concerns that
publishing the results could undermine confidence in banks.  
 “We will do stress tests institution by institution and
we’ll announce results, though I don’t know the details about
how much exactly we announce, like if we release the answers to
each question,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told
reporters. Results will be published in July.   
 The decision by EU leaders came a day after an announcement
by the Bank of Spain that it would make its findings public.
Greece’s debt woes focused attention on Spain’s public finances
and the costs of buttressing the country’s banks, including the
foundation-based lenders known as “cajas” that have been
hobbled by a surge in bad debts.  
 “What’s important right now is that we have maximum
transparency,” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said in a
separate briefing. “If you have something to hide, it would
come out into the open in the long run anyway.”  
 Merkel said that EU leaders also agreed to pursue a banking
levy and a financial transaction tax that apply worldwide, “to
ensure fair burden-sharing and rein in systemic risks.” The EU
will take those proposals to the Group of 20 summit in Canada
later this month.  
 U.S. Stress Tests  
 Europe’s move on stress tests comes more than a year after
the U.S. released the results of evaluations it carried out on
19 financial institutions to determine whether they needed more
capital following the subprime mortgage crisis. The U.S.
Treasury, whose tests measured how the biggest firms would
perform if the economy worsened, promised to provide capital to
banks that couldn’t raise it.  
 Merkel sidestepped questions on how the governments would
react if tests revealed shortcomings, saying the EU has “taken
precautions,” including a 750 billion-euro ($927 billion)
financial backstop.  
 Publishing the results may lead to a “run on a perfectly
sound bank,” the British Bankers’ Association said in a
statement yesterday. Germany’s BdB banking association, which
represents more than 220 private firms, initially said it
opposed making the findings public. The group changed its stance
today, and said publishing the results can “contribute to
creating confidence and calming the markets” if done in a way
that does not leave “room for misinterpretation.”  
 Trichet ‘Happy’  
 European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told
reporters today in Brussels that he was “happy” that EU
leaders reached a consensus on stress tests, and said the
results will be published in the second half of July at the
latest.  
 EU regulators are evaluating the strength of the region’s
lenders after they racked up losses and writedowns during the
financial crisis, leading to taxpayer-funded bailouts. ECB
Governing Council member  Axel Weber  said future stress tests in
the banking industry will be more comprehensive than the current
evaluations and may include government bond markets.  
 Questions have arisen over whether the tests would take
into account risks tied to sovereign debt of Greece, Portugal
and other European nations. Marking down the value of Greek
bonds, even for the purposes of a test, might imply that
regulators perceive a debt default as a possibility, which could
further unsettle investors, according to analysts.  
 BBVA, Santander  
 Finding common ground on an approach to carrying out and
publicizing stress tests in Europe has also been complicated by
the fact that there are 27 nations in the European Union, each
with its own government and central bank. Merkel said all EU
countries had agreed to publish the findings.  
 Bank of Spain Governor  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez 
announced yesterday that the central bank would make the
findings public to bolster confidence in the country’s banks.
The Bank of Spain, seeking to shore up its savings banks, seized
a lender last month and is urging ailing cajas to complete
merger plans to tap a government rescue fund.  
 Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA , Spain’s second-largest bank, added to concern
about the nation’s lenders this week when he said capital
markets were closed to most Spanish companies and banks. He
advocated “doing and publishing” stress tests.  
 “Europe needs this because the markets are asking for
it,” Gonzalez said on June 14 at a seminar in Santander, Spain.  
 Bond Sale  
 Matias Rodriguez Inciarte , a vice-chairman at Santander,
Spain’s biggest bank, told reporters today that the decision to
publish results of the tests is a step toward restoring
confidence in the country’s banks.  
 Spain sold 3.5 billion euros of bonds today, the maximum
set for the auction, easing concern that it will struggle to
finance looming debt.  Santander  and  BBVA  rose in Madrid trading
and the euro rallied.  
 The U.S. stress tests were criticized by some analysts and
economists who said they weren’t rigorous enough and others who
said it could fuel investor concern. The effort forced banks
including Wells Fargo & Co. and  Morgan Stanley  to issue common
equity after the Federal Reserve released results on May 7,
2009, that showed 10 of the 19 lenders needed new capital. It
also kicked off a rally that lifted the  Standard & Poor’s
Financials Index  36 percent from the start of May through the
end of last year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Brussels at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        