-- European Construction Declined in April, Led by Drops in Spain, Portugal
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-06-17T09:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/european-construction-declined-in-april-led-by-drops-in-spain-portugal.html

          
          
             European  construction output 
decreased in April, led by declines in Spain and Portugal.  
 Construction  in the 16-nation euro region dropped 0.3
percent from March, when it jumped a revised 6.5 percent, the
European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
From a year earlier, April  output  fell 6.1 percent after
dropping 6 percent in March.  
 Builders across Europe have been hit by the collapse in
property markets from Spain to Ireland. Standard & Poor’s
economist  Jean-Michel Six  said on June 1 that the European
housing market remains overvalued, with the possibility of a
“second dip.” He said he remains “fairly pessimistic” on the
home market in Spain, where the collapse of a decade-long
housing boom has sparked an almost two-year recession.  
 Construction in Spain fell 4.9 percent in April from the
previous month, today’s report showed. Portugal’s output
declined 3.7 percent, while construction in Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, increased 2.6 percent in April.  
 France saw a 2.2 percent drop in its construction output.
 Vinci SA , the world’s largest builder, said last month that
“harsh” weather in the U.S. and Europe caused a 6.8 percent
drop in first-quarter sales.  
 The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.2333 at 10:05 a.m. in London, up 0.2 percent
on the day.  
 The March increase in euro-area construction was revised to
6.5 percent from the 7.6 percent estimate reported last month.
That was the biggest gain in 14 years.  
 For the EU as a whole,  construction  was flat in April
compared with the prior month and fell 4.3 percent from a year
earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Dublin at 
 smeier@bloombert.net   
          
          


  


        