-- Europe Squeezed
-- Vernon Silver
-- 2010-06-17T15:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/europe-squeezed.html

          
          
             As a slumping euro boosts
exports and Germany imposes fiscal discipline on the continent’s
southern tier, the stage may be set for sustained growth.  
 “The crisis is over.”  
 So says  Emeric Challier , a money manager at Avenir Finance
Investment Managers in Paris.  
 Rather than being alarmed by the plunging euro -- down 4.1
percent against the dollar in the week before the European
Union’s nearly trillion-dollar bailout for debt-saddled members
and 3.1 percent the week after -- he cites the economic boost a
weaker currency provides.  
 “The advantage of the euro drop is it will continue to
support the recovery,” says Challier, who is betting that
Spanish, Portuguese and Italian government bonds will rise.
German exports and Spanish and Greek vacations become cheaper
for Americans and Asians, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in
its July issue. The benefit is especially significant if the
euro is depressed a year or more, he says.  
 The fiscal discipline that comes as a condition of the
rescue package will also benefit European economies after the
initial pain of government spending cuts and tax increases, says
 Christoph Kind , head of asset allocation at Frankfurt Trust,
which manages about $17 billion.  
 There are some precedents. South Korea and Indonesia
flourished after the Asian currency crisis of the late 1990s
ushered in budgetary restraints and financial reforms, Kind
says.  
 “Hopefully  history  repeats itself, and these austerity
packages lead to substantial improvement here,” he says.  
 Shares Benefit  
 Kind is bullish on European equities, especially shares of
manufacturers that will benefit from the cheaper euro.
“Automakers, capital goods producers are in good shape --
companies like Siemens,” he says.  Siemens AG , the maker of
electronics and railroad equipment based in Munich, rose 8
percent in the week after the bailout plan was completed on May
10. The shares are up 10 percent so far this year, through
yesterday.  
 Before Europe’s finance ministers hammered out the giant
loan package, the region’s sovereign debt crisis had been
deepening for months.  Yields  on Greek two-year bonds reached
18.85 percent -- topping the interest rate on a Visa Gold card
available in Greece.  
 Europe’s Disciplinarian  
 As Greek, Spanish, Portuguese and Irish borrowing  costs 
rose, the budget deficits that triggered the crisis became more
intractable, says  Christopher Pryce , a director at Fitch Ratings
in London who studies sovereign debt. He says the rescue, which
includes funds from the International Monetary Fund and
sovereign debt purchases directed by the European Central Bank,
broke that cycle.  
 German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is Europe’s disciplinarian.
She was reluctant to join the bailout amid resentment at home
over fiscal recklessness elsewhere in Europe. The day the rescue
was done, Merkel called for stricter enforcement of EU rules on
deficits.  
 Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou, Spanish Prime
Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  and other European leaders
are trying to fall in line. Papandreou has announced three
rounds of deficit-reduction measures so far this year -- even
amid violent protests against cuts to wages and pensions. His
socialist government is increasing levies on fuel, alcohol and
tobacco.  
 Following the bailout, Spain announced a 5 percent cut in
public sector wages. Today the Spanish parliament ratified the
government’s austerity plan, the nation’s deepest budget cuts in
30 years. Portugal has pledged to slash wages and raise taxes to
trim its  budget deficit .  
 Fiscal Medicine  
 Of course, there’s no guarantee that European leaders will
keep taking their medicine.  
 Luca Cazzulani, senior fixed-income strategist at UniCredit
SpA in Milan, Italy’s biggest bank, says investors who doubt
Europe’s resolve have turned from betting against sovereign debt
-- now protected by the bailout -- to wagering against the euro
instead.  
 Currency investors have been overwhelmingly bearish on the
euro this month. Net short positions in the euro versus the
dollar -- the difference between bets on a decline and bets on a
gain -- jumped to a  record  113,890 contracts on May 11,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The
euro fell as low as $1.2144 on May 19, its weakest since April
2006.  
 Euro skeptics say the forced spending cuts and tax
increases across Europe’s southern tier will scuttle a recovery
before it takes hold.  
 “The fiscal austerity measures will be a big drag on
growth,” says  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at
Interactive Brokers Group in Greenwich, Connecticut.  
 ‘Long-Term Gain’  
 The attack on the euro may end later this year as more
investors begin to believe in Europe’s fiscal discipline, fixed-
income investor  John Stopford  says.  
 “By implementing economic reform and taking some pain,
there’s long-term gain,” says Stopford, co-head of fixed income
at Investec Asset Management Ltd. in London, which oversees
about $65 billion.  
 “European countries are learning the right way to confront
this situation,” says  Fabrizio Fiorini , head of fixed income at
Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan, who manages about $8 billion.
“And the market will discover this is strong for European
bonds, stocks and the euro. In one or two years, everyone will
discover we did the right thing.”  
 Vernon Silver  is a senior writer at Bloomberg Markets in Rome at
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net   
 #<535521.2245115.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jun/17/2010 15:54 GMT
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Photograph by Ralph Orlowski/Bloomberg  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Merkel needs Zapatero to tackle Spain's deficit. Photograph by Ralph Orlowski/Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Merkel needs Zapatero to tackle Spain's deficit. Photograph by Ralph Orlowski/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
