-- Euro Surges as Bullish Spanish Bond-Sale Outcome Reassures Currency Market
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-06-17T20:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/euro-rebounds-bullish-spanish-bond-sale-outcome-reassures-currency-market.html

          
          
             The euro strengthened above $1.24
for the first time in almost three weeks as increased demand at
Spain’s bond auction eased concern about Europe’s debt crisis.  
 The common currency pared gains as stocks retreated after a
report showed the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s factory
index slumped in June. The dollar reached the lowest level
versus the yen in three weeks as the number of Americans seeking
jobless benefits last week unexpectedly rose. The Swiss franc
strengthened against the euro after the nation’s central bank
said deflationary risks have “largely disappeared.”  
 “The euro is benefitting most strongly against other
currencies coming off the relief of the Spanish auction,”  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of online currency
trading firm Gain Capital in Bedminster, New Jersey. “We’re
still looking at a pretty anemic U.S. recovery. That partly
highlights the potential for the risk rally to stall.”  
 The euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.2387 at 4:21 p.m. in New
York, from $1.2311. It touched $1.2413, the strongest level
since May 28. The common currency bought 112.72 yen, from
112.57. The Swiss franc appreciated to 1.3774 against the euro
from 1.3924. The dollar fell 0.5 percent to 90.75 yen. It
touched 90.51, the weakest since May 27.  
 ‘Worse Numbers’  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 0.4 percent as the Fed
Bank of Philadelphia said its factory index fell to 8 in June,
from 21.4 the previous month. Economists forecast a decline to
20, according to the median in a Bloomberg survey. The number of
Americans seeking jobless benefits last week increased to a one-
month high, according to a Labor Department report.  
 The correlation between the euro and the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index has increased to 54 percent from about 32 percent at
the end of May, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “There has been some covering of weak euro shorts, which
has contributed to a bit of upward pressure,” said  Todd Elmer ,
a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. A short is
a bet that the price of an asset will fall.  
 The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those betting on a gain was near a record on June 8, according
to the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  
 Futures positions, when they reach an extreme, are
sometimes viewed as a contrarian indicator because traders often
seek to cut positions when momentum in a currency shifts.  
 The common currency’s break above $1.24 could signal
further appreciation to $1.2455 today or tomorrow, said  Andrew Chaveriat , a technical analyst in New York at BNP Paribas SA.
The currency has gained as much as 4.5 percent since reaching a
four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7.  
 Bear Market Correction  
 “At this point the market has a very nice channel
intact,” Chaveriat said. “If we hold above $1.235 we could
move toward $1.25. A lot depends on the stock market.”  
 A break above $1.25 could lead the euro to $1.267,
according to Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. The currency began to
fall after reaching that level in May, indicating a similar move
could occur this time, analysts including  Marc Chandler  in New
York wrote in a note to clients.  
 “The recent euro rally is a corrective phase in a bear
market and not a change in trend,” Chandler wrote. “We stick
to a more bearish medium-term outlook, but euro bears will have
to be patient.”  
 Stocks declined as  initial jobless claims  in the U.S.
increased by 12,000 to 472,000 in the week ended June 12,
according to Labor Department figures. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected 450,000 claims, according to the median
forecast.  
 Spain sold 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) of 10-year debt
at an average yield of 4.864 percent, less than the 5.04 percent
that the bonds traded at today before the sale. Demand was 1.89
times the amount on offer. It also sold 479.2 million euros of
30-year debt at 5.908 percent, and the bid-to-cover ratio was
2.45, higher than the 1.38 at the previous sale on March 18.  
 Bank Stress Tests  
 “The yields were a little higher than previously but they
were able to finance their deficit at costs that weren’t
prohibitive,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy
at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “The fact that we got through
the Spanish bond without something going awry is good. We’ve had
some resilient trading in the euro.”  
 European Union leaders agreed to disclose how banks perform
on stress tests, seeking to show investors that the financial
system can withstand shocks.  
 The decision by EU leaders came a day after an announcement
by the Bank of Spain that it would make its findings public.
Greece’s debt woes focused attention on Spain’s public finances
and the costs of buttressing the country’s banks, including the
foundation-based lenders known as “cajas” that have been
hobbled by a surge in bad debts.  
 The Swiss National Bank today softened its stance on
fighting franc gains, saying deflation risks have eased. It left
its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.25 percent at its
quarterly meeting.  
 The franc strengthened 7.6 percent against the euro this
year even as the SNB occasionally intervened to buy the euro to
curb gains in the local currency, which makes exports more
expensive. The euro region buys about two-thirds of
Switzerland’s exports.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Levisohn  in New York at 
 blevisohn@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        