-- Ex-Fortress's Stanley Ku Said to Return Investors' Money in Hedge Fund
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2010-06-17T08:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/ex-fortress-s-stanley-ku-said-to-return-investors-money-in-hedge-fund.html

          
          
             A hedge fund set up by  Fortress
Investment Group LLC ’s former Hong Kong head has returned most
investors’ money 10 months after starting with backing from  Man
Group Plc , said a person with knowledge of the matter.  
 Minerva Macro Fund, focused on Asia and led by  Stanley Ku ,
will return the remaining external investor money as soon as
possible, the person said, asking not to be identified as the
information is private.  
 Hedge fund liquidations globally rose to 240 in the first
quarter, the highest since the three months to June 2009,
according to Chicago-based data provider Hedge Fund Research Inc.  
 “It is an extremely tough environment for fund raising and
fund flows are mostly going the way of more established
outfits,” said  Will Tan , managing director at Singapore-based
hedge-fund recruiter Principle Partners Pte. “For most startup
and smallish hedge funds it is crucial to have sticky and
patient capital.”  
 Minerva lost 6.6 percent by the end of March, according to
an industry investor who receives the funds’ newsletters.  
 The fund started investment in August last year with $50
million of backing from RMF Global Emerging Managers, a unit of
Man, said a  statement  from the largest publicly traded hedge
fund firm then. Man’s London-based spokesman Robert Clow
declined to comment.  
 Macro Funds  
 The Minerva fund sought to profit from macroeconomic
developments by trading easy-to-sell instruments such as
interest rate and bond futures, foreign exchange forwards,
equity index futures or industry-focused exchange traded funds,
said the Man statement.  
 While Asian macro  managers  underperformed other strategies
last year as stock markets rallied, they are likely to
outperform in the coming months as concern that Europe’s debt
crisis will curb global growth roils markets, said  Farhan Mumtaz ,
a hedge fund analyst at Eurekahedge Pte in Singapore.  
 “In this current market environment, macro funds will,
especially in times of higher  volatility , be better off going
forward,” Mumtaz said. “It might be just too soon for
investors to be pulling out money from a macro fund, but after
the financial crisis there have been very strict measures of
risk controls implemented.”  
 The Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index  fell 2.3 percent last
month, the industry’s worst performance since October 2008.
Asia-focused macro funds gained 0.6 percent in May, according to
the Singapore-based industry data provider.  
 Pool of Assets  
 Ku set up the Hong Kong office of Fortress, a listed
private equity and hedge fund manager, in 2005 and ran it until
December 2008. He managed a $750 million pool of assets for
Fortress’s Drawbridge Global Macro Fund, Man’s statement last
year said.  
 He had had 12 consecutive years of profitable macro trading
experience including 2008, a marketing document for Minerva last
year said.  
 He’d previously traded currencies, interest rates and other
macro instruments for more than seven years in Tokyo and Hong
Kong for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net 
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        