-- Mexico Beats France 2-0 at World Cup Match on Goals by Hernandez, Blanco
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-17T20:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/mexico-beats-france-2-0-at-world-cup-match-on-goals-by-hernandez-blanco.html

          
          
             Mexico defeated France 2-0 today to
move into a tie with Uruguay atop Group A at soccer’s World Cup
in South Africa.  
 Javier Hernandez and  Cuauhtemoc Blanco  scored the goals in
the second half in Polokwane. Hernandez put Mexico in front
after 64 minutes and Blanco clinched the victory with a penalty
kick 15 minutes later.  
 Mexico and Uruguay have four points and face each other in
the final group game on June 22. A tie would send both through
to the round of 16.  
 France and host South Africa have one point and meet in
their final game. Both need to win and have Mexico and Uruguay
not tie in order to have a chance to progress.  
 Mexico started quickly as  Carlos Vela  shot over the goal in
the ninth minute after running onto a long pass. Guillermo
Franco put his attempt over from just outside the area, and
France’s  Franck Ribery  got free on the right but his pass across
the front of the goal went untouched.  
 Carlos Salcido pulled a shot wide in the 19th minute and
France’s  Florent Malouda  just missed heading a cross from Jeremy
Toulalan. Salcido then got past Bacary Sagna in the area but had
his shot blocked by goalkeeper Hugo Lloris.  
 Vela left with a leg injury in the 31st minute and was
replaced by Pablo Barrera, who was just beaten to a cross by
Lloris. Giovanni dos Santos then sent a shot wide and Mexico
goalkeeper  Oscar Perez  easily caught  Nicolas Anelka ’s shot in
the final minute of the half.  
 France had two good scoring chances early in the second
half as Perez knocked away shots from Malouda and Ribery.  
 Mexico took the lead when Hernandez beat a France offside
trap, went around Lloris and slid the ball into the empty goal.
Blanco made it 2-0 with his penalty after  Eric Abidal  took down
Barrera.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        