-- Extended Stay Proceeds With Centerbridge, Blackstone Deal to Sell Assets
-- David McLaughlin
-- 2010-06-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/extended-stay-wins-judge-s-approval-to-move-ahead-with-centerbridge-deal.html

          
          
             Extended Stay Inc. won approval to
move toward selling its assets to Centerbridge Partners LP,
Paulson & Co. and Blackstone Group LP after Starwood Capital
Group LLC withdrew an objection to the $3.9 billion deal.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James Peck  said he would approve a
summary of the hotel chain’s bankruptcy reorganization proposal,
allowing creditors to begin voting on it. The plan is based on
the sale to the Centerbridge group, which would take ownership
of Extended Stay’s more than 600 hotels.  
 Starwood, which lost an auction for Extended Stay last
month, dropped its opposition to the sale at a court hearing
yesterday.  Bruce Zirinsky , a lawyer for Starwood, said during
the hearing that the buyout firm wanted to press ahead with a
rival bid to invest in Extended Stay and take it out of
bankruptcy even as it dropped its objection.  
 Proposing a rival plan that creditors could consider would
require Peck’s permission, and the judge said he was “not
inclined” to grant approval. The judge criticized Starwood for
complaining that the auction process was unfair. Starwood had
said the auction rules chilled bidding for the Spartanburg,
South Carolina-based company.  
 “Starwood had its opportunity, voluntarily chose to
participate in the auction, but more to the point, voluntarily
chose to walk away,” Peck said.  
 The committee representing Extended Stay’s unsecured
creditors, which backs Starwood’s proposal, asked Peck to
consider at a hearing next week a request to file the rival
plan. Creditors say the Starwood deal would give them a better
recovery in the bankruptcy case.  
 Request Denied  
 Peck denied the request for a hearing next week, saying he
would consider the motion at a July 20 hearing. That is the same
day  Extended Stay  is scheduled to ask the judge to approve its
bankruptcy plan and the sale to the Centerbridge group.  
 “In short, we ran our process,” Peck said. “It was
successful, and it’s not going to be subverted.”  
 Zirinsky told Peck that setting a July 20 hearing would
effectively deny Starwood’s motion to propose a competing plan.
He declined to comment after the hearing about how Starwood
would proceed.  
 “We’re going to have to figure it out,” Zirinsky said.  
 Starwood has proposed reinstating Extended Stay’s
$4.1 billion mortgage debt. Under the Centerbridge sale, the
debt would be largely paid down. Starwood also would make a
minimum cash equity investment of $560 million for 75 percent of
Extended Stay’s equity and backstop a $140 million rights
offering for an additional 20 percent of the equity, according
to court papers.  
 The rights offering would be made available to holders of
Extended Stay’s $3.3 billion in mezzanine debt. Those creditors,
who would see no recovery from the Centerbridge sale, also would
get the remaining 5 percent of the equity.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        