-- Fairfield Energy Seeks as Much as $500 Million in London Initial Offering
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-06-17T13:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/fairfield-energy-seeks-as-much-as-500-million-in-london-initial-offering.html

          
          
             Fairfield Energy Plc, a North Sea
oil and gas company partly owned by private-equity firm Warburg
Pincus LLC, plans to raise as much as $500 million in an initial
public offering in London.  
 The company aims to use the proceeds to boost production at
the Dunlin, Dunlin SW, Merlin and Osprey fields in the North
Sea, Aberdeen-based Fairfield said in an e-mailed statement
today. The shares are scheduled to be priced in mid-July and
begin trading thereafter, according to a term sheet for the
offering obtained by Bloomberg News. About 40 percent of the
company will be freely tradable after the sale.  
 Fairfield’s IPO plans come eight weeks after a rig leased
by London-based BP Plc exploded in the Gulf of Mexico, causing
the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  Oasis Petroleum Inc. , a
Houston-based drilling and exploration company, yesterday raised
$588 million in the second-biggest U.S. offering this year.  
 “Fairfield has built a balanced portfolio of assets and is
now extremely well placed to capitalize on the significant
opportunities that exist in the U.K. North Sea,” Chief
Executive Officer Mark McAllister said in today’s statement.  
 The company was set up in 2005 with funds from private
equity firms led by New York-based Warburg Pincus, manager of a
$15 billion buyout fund, according to the company’s website.  
 Production is expected to grow to 34,400 barrels of oil
equivalent a day in 2014 from a total of 4,600 barrels of oil
equivalent a day in 2009, Fairfield said.  
 Shelved IPOs  
 Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Hawkpoint Partners Ltd. are managing the sale, along with BNP
Paribas SA, Oriel Securities and RBC Capital Markets, according
to the statement.  
 Fairfield is planning a share sale after Europe’s debt
crisis spurred at least 33 companies from London-based Ferrous
Resources Ltd. to Chinese wind-turbine maker Xinjiang Goldwind
Science & Technology Co. to shelve IPOs.  Jupiter Fund Management
Plc  surged 15 percent in London trading yesterday after raising
220 million pounds ($325 million).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net 
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        