-- FCC Advances Broadband-Regulation Plan Backed by Google, Opposed by AT&T
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-06-17T17:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/fcc-advances-broadband-regulation-plan-backed-by-google-opposed-by-at-t.html

          
          
             A divided  Federal Communications
Commission  advanced a plan backed by  Google Inc. ,  EBay Inc.  and
 Amazon.com Inc.  to regulate Internet service providers over the
opposition of carriers led by  AT&T Inc.   
 The FCC, by a 3-2 vote, opened a process to seek comments
on its legal authority to regulate how companies including AT&T,
 Verizon Communications Inc.  and  Comcast Corp.  deliver high-speed
Internet service, or broadband. All three Democrats endorsed the
action and both Republicans dissented.  
 The vote is a step in FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski ’s
drive to reclaim authority undermined when a court ruled that
the agency lacked jurisdiction to censure Comcast’s Web
practices. The approach is “a middle ground” intended “to
restore the status quo light-touch framework” that existed
before the April court decision, Genachowski said today.  
 The agency needs legal backing to write net-neutrality
rules that would bar companies from interfering with
subscribers’ Web traffic, and to subsidize Internet connections
for more homes.  
 The FCC is adding uncertainty that “makes providers and
investors alike think twice about moving forward with network
investments under this dark regulatory cloud,” said Republican
Commissioner  Meredith A. Baker . “This outcome can only harm
consumers who need better, faster, more ubiquitous broadband.”  
 The agency is moving toward reclaiming authority Congress
gave it, said Commissioner  Michael Copps , a Democrat.  
 ‘Meaningful Oversight’  
 “We are not talking, even remotely, about regulating the
Internet,” Copps said. “We are talking about meaningful
oversight of the infrastructure and services that allow
Americans to get to the Internet.”  
 Subjecting Internet service providers to rules covering
telephone companies “is a terrible idea,”  Tom Tauke , a Verizon
executive vice president, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “‘The FCC should acknowledge that this is an issue Congress
should address,” Tauke said.  
 Phone and cable companies are trying to build support in
Congress for legislation that would avert FCC action,  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst with Concept Capital’s
Washington Research Group, said in a note yesterday.  
 AT&T and Verizon were joined last month by the National
Cable & Telecommunications Association, a trade group with
members led by Comcast and  Time Warner Cable Inc. , in  asking  FCC
officials whether “targeted legislation” would help clarify
the agency’s  authority.  
 ‘Super Timely’  
 The FCC action “is super-timely because right now there
are no rules of the road protecting consumers,”  Markham Erickson , executive director of the  Open Internet Coalition , a
group led by  Google ,  EBay  and  Amazon.com , said yesterday in an
interview. The coalition supports net-neutrality rules.  
 The agency’s approach will help “preserve a free and open
Internet and encourage innovation and investment,”  Dish Network
Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Charlie Ergen  said in a statement.
The company, the No. 2 U.S. satellite television provider,
provides subscribers with on-demand movies using broadband lines
it doesn’t control.  
 Genachowski’s proposal is a way to protect consumers and
assure access to the Internet, said  Richard Whitt , Google’s
Washington telecom and media counsel, in a blog posting.  
 “Broadband infrastructure is too important to be
left outside of any oversight,” Whitt said.  
 In the proceeding started today, the FCC is asking whether
it should regulate broadband using rules crafted for telephone
service. The agency would choose not to apply some of the
telephone rules, such as regulating prices, Genachowski said in
a  May 6 statement .  
 The FCC set a deadline of Aug. 12 for comments. It didn’t
say when it might act.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        