-- Lawmakers Take Step Toward Greater Fed Disclosure
-- Craig Torres
-- 2010-06-17T16:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/fed-disclosure-measure-proceeds-in-negotiations-on-u-s-bank-overhaul-bill.html

          
          
             U.S. House and Senate lawmakers took
a procedural step toward agreeing to require greater disclosure
on actions by the Federal Reserve and drop plans to make the New
York Fed president a political appointee.  
 Senate negotiators on an overhaul of financial legislation
accepted a House plan to reduce the role of commercial banks in
naming  Fed presidents  in Washington today. Under another change,
the central bank, after a two-year delay, would have to identify
firms that borrow through its discount window and participate in
the Fed’s purchases or sales of assets such as mortgage-backed
securities.  
 The Fed successfully lobbied Congress to avoid reducing its
political autonomy and bank-supervision powers in the
legislation as lawmakers pushed for more public disclosure than
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  was willing to provide. Lawmakers are
demanding unprecedented transparency after the Fed, often
invoking emergency powers, made more than $2 trillion of loans
to end the financial crisis.  
 The amendments approved today by senators at the conference
would be added to the bill when House conferees sign off on the
Senate’s offer. The broader legislation requires approval by the
full House and Senate before going to President  Barack Obama  to
be signed into law.  
 Senators in the joint conference today debated making the
New York Fed chief a White House appointee subject to Senate
approval before voting 10-2 to drop the plan. Senator  Jack Reed ,
a Democrat from Rhode Island, argued for changing the
appointment process because the New York Fed president is
closely involved in supervising the biggest financial firms and
has a permanent vote on interest-rate decisions.  
 ‘Major Complaints’  
 “I’ve heard the last few days here major complaints about
the Federal Reserve in its run-up to the crisis,” Reed said.
“And yet at the end of this conclusion we are not making any, I
think, fundamental changes in the operation of the Fed.”  
 Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , who had
previously pushed for the New York Fed change, said he changed
his mind in part because the confirmation process may result in
delays in filling the post. Dodd said lobbying from the chairman
of the New York Fed’s board of directors helped persuade him.  
 The legislation doesn’t mean that changes to how regional
Fed presidents are appointed are off the table. The Government
Accountability Office would be required to complete an audit,
within a year, of the system of directors of regional Fed banks,
including examining “actual or potential conflicts of
interest.”  
 Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat and
chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, has said for
several years he plans to explore how the regional Fed
presidents are selected, this week repeating his concern that
the officials tend to favor higher interest rates. “That’s a
subject for next year,” Frank said June 15.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke says Congress has taken steps toward creating stricter financial regulation while the Fed has sought on its own to improve oversight, including through tougher capital standards. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
