-- Lawmakers Expand Fed Disclosure, Drop New York Fed Chief Plan
-- Scott Lanman
-- 2010-06-18T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/fed-disclosure-measure-approved-in-negotiations-on-u-s-bank-overhaul-bill.html

          
          
             U.S. House and Senate lawmakers
agreed to require greater disclosure on actions by the Federal
Reserve and to drop plans to make the New York Fed president a
political appointee.  
 Negotiators on an overhaul of financial legislation amended
the bill to reduce the role of commercial banks in naming  Fed
presidents  in Washington yesterday. Under another change, the
central bank, after a two-year delay, would have to identify
firms that borrow through its discount window or participate in
the Fed’s purchases or sales of assets such as mortgage-backed
securities.  
 The revised legislation “represents a modest encroachment
on the Fed’s independence, relative to what people might have
been thinking,” said  Vincent Reinhart , a former Fed monetary-
affairs director who is now a resident scholar at the American
Enterprise Institute in Washington. “That still doesn’t mean
it’s not at risk” from political pressure.  
 The Fed, which persuaded lawmakers not to reduce its
political autonomy and bank supervision powers, will still have
to expose its inner workings to public view more than ever
before in its 96-year history. Lawmakers faulted the  central
bank  for lax supervision before the financial crisis and
demanded transparency on its more than $2 trillion in loans.  
 The amendments were approved yesterday by House and Senate
conferees. The broader legislation requires approval by the full
House and Senate before going to President  Barack Obama  to be
signed into law.  
 Interest-Rate Vote  
 Senators in the joint conference debated making the New
York Fed chief a White House appointee subject to Senate
approval before voting 10-2 to drop the plan. Senator  Jack Reed ,
a Democrat from Rhode Island, argued for changing the
appointment process because the New York Fed president is
closely involved in supervising the biggest financial firms and
has a permanent vote on interest-rate decisions.  
 “I’ve heard the last few days here major complaints about
the Federal Reserve in its run-up to the crisis,” Reed said.
“And yet at the end of this conclusion we are not making any, I
think, fundamental changes in the operation of the Fed.”  
 Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , who had
previously pushed for the New York Fed change, said he changed
his mind in part because the confirmation process may result in
delays in filling the post. Dodd said lobbying from the chairman
of the New York Fed’s board of directors helped persuade him.  
 Regional Directors  
 The legislation doesn’t mean that changes to how regional
Fed presidents are appointed are off the table. The Government
Accountability Office would be required to complete an audit,
within a year, of the system of directors of regional  Fed banks ,
including examining “actual or potential conflicts of
interest.”  
 Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat and
chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, has said for
several years he plans to explore how the regional Fed
presidents are selected, repeating his concern this week that
the officials tend to favor higher interest rates. “That’s a
subject for next year,” Frank said June 15.  
 The 12 regional Fed presidents are each selected by a nine-
member board of directors and approved by the Fed’s Board of
Governors in Washington. Currently, three directors are bankers
appointed by banks, three are non-bankers selected by banks, and
three are non-bankers chosen by the  Board of Governors.   
 Under the changes, only the six non-bankers would select
each  regional Fed president , subject to governors’ approval. The
plan would also replace a Senate provision that prevents bank
employees from serving as Fed directors.  
 Senate Bill  
 The measure on Fed transparency applies to future actions
and builds on the Senate bill, which would open the central bank
to a one-time audit of its emergency loans and other measures to
combat the financial crisis starting in December 2007.  
 “It looks like you’re going to have pretty good
disclosure,” said  Dean Baker , co-director of the Center for
Economic and Policy Research in Washington, who had backed
tougher Fed oversight.  
 Yet without the governance changes, the Fed is “still
going to be an institution that’s dominated by the banks, and
that’s really unfortunate and it’s hard to justify,” Baker
said. “Why on earth would you have a regulator that’s dominated
by the industry it’s regulating?”  
 Bernanke, while advocating increased transparency for Fed
policies and decisions, has held firm against identifying banks
that borrow from the Fed’s  discount window .  
 Bloomberg LP has sued the central bank to release records
of discount-window loans following a request under the Freedom
of Information Act. The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York ruled
March 19 that the Fed must release the records. The Federal
Reserve Board asked the appeals court in May to reconsider its
ruling.  
 Frank said this week the changes to the legislation would
not interfere with pending litigation, including the Bloomberg
lawsuit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Vincent Reinhart  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Vincent Reinhart, a former Fed monetary-affairs director, speaks during a panel discussion at the Brookings Institution in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Vincent Reinhart, a former Fed monetary-affairs director, speaks during a panel discussion at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
