-- Federal Home Loan Bank Note Sale Signals Skittishness About Europe Crisis
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-06-17T20:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/federal-home-loan-bank-note-sale-signals-skittishness-about-europe-crisis.html

          
          
             The Federal Home Loan Bank system,
the government-chartered cooperatives owned by U.S. financial
companies, sold $3 billion of global notes in an offering whose
results may signal concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
will continue to roil markets.  
 The two-year debt yields 0.935 percent, or 22.5 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, with the issue
being “well oversold,” according to an e-mailed statement
today from the system’s finance office in Reston, Virginia. In
March, the system sold two-year notes at a spread of 21 basis
points.  
 The e-mail listed 13 percent of the buyers as
“other/unknown,” which is a “large amount,” according to  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in Memphis,
Tennessee. These may be central banks, in addition to the 29
percent listed in the category, and other “official investors”
outside Europe or Asia who are seeking safety, he said.  
 “Those investors usually buy heavily at” U.S. Treasury
auctions, “but they chose not to wait for next week’s two-
year,” Vogel wrote in a note to clients. “So, while aggressive
traders follow other barometers of global risk appetite” such
as credit-default swaps and currency markets ”where improvement
is visible this week, there appears to be pent-up demand for
ultra-high U.S. quality while comparable EU issuers remain ‘bid-
wanted.’”  
 ‘Very Pleased’  
 The Federal Home Loan Banks system is among the largest
U.S. borrowers after the federal government. The 12 regional
FHLBs lend to more than 8,000 commercial banks, thrifts, credit
unions and insurers at below-market rates, mainly to finance
mortgage holdings. The banks also buy and hold mortgage-related
assets.  
 The banks’ finance office was “very pleased with the
robust demand,”  Michael Ciota , a spokesman, said in an e-mail.
”The book was of very high quality and the issue was oversold
within a few hours yesterday.”  
 The system’s outstanding debt peaked at $1.33 trillion in
October 2008 as members sought funding amid the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression, before tumbling to $872.3
billion in May, according to data from the finance office. Its
borrowing stabilized in recent months after plunging as markets
healed,  members’ lending  slowed and banks’  deposit balances 
grew, increasing $1.4 billion from March.  
 Spreads on Bonds  
 The government-chartered FHLBs, whose debt rating-companies
say is granted top grades in part because of the likelihood they
would receive U.S. aid if needed, raise money collectively in
the so-called agency debt market.  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
the mortgage-finance companies being supported by the U.S. whose
shares their regulator said yesterday would be delisted from the
New York Stock Exchange, are the other largest sellers of agency
securities.  
 Spreads on the most actively traded FHLB bonds -- the
system’s $4 billion of 1.13 percent notes due May, 2012 -- have
fallen to 15 basis points as of 9 a.m. in New York, from 20
basis points in their initial trading in March, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Average spreads  on agency debt aside from mortgage
securities -- including corporate bonds sold by Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac and U.S.-guaranteed bank notes -- declined yesterday
to 26 basis points, according to Barclays Plc index data. That’s
up from 24 basis points on March 31 and down from a record 180
basis points in November 2008.  
 “A preference for asset classes with better liquidity by
investors” as Europe’s debt crisis roiled markets contributed
in recent weeks to somewhat wider spreads, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts led by  Meera Chandan  wrote in a June 11 report.  
 Credit Suisse Group, Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG led
underwriting of today’s sale. The system’s global bonds, which
are designed to appeal to overseas buyers, are sold in lots of
at least $3 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        