-- FedEx to MasterCard Benefit as Europe Weathers Crisis
-- Anthony Feld
-- 2010-06-18T09:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/fedex-to-mastercard-benefit-as-european-economy-weathers-fiscal-turmoil.html

          
          
             European consumers and businesses
are so far weathering the debt crisis with sustained spending
from the region that’s encouraging companies from  FedEx Corp.  to
 MasterCard Inc.   
 “It’s almost like a tale of two Europes,”  Ajay Banga ,
incoming chief executive officer at Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard, the world’s second-biggest payment network, said
June 10. “There’s what we read in the newspapers about debt
crises and sovereign debt issues. On the other hand, if you look
at volumes on the ground, cross-border volumes in Europe” are
being maintained.  
 Such sentiment suggests the 16-nation euro economy will
avoid sliding back into recession and may explain and extend the
 Euro Stoxx 50 ’s 10 percent advance from the 10-month low reached
on May 25. The test may be whether markets can hold gains and
demand endures as governments from Greece to Germany begin
cutting budget deficits to shore up public finances.  
 “Many economists are quite negative and see a double dip
recession, but managers of companies are much more upbeat,”
said  Stefan Moeckel , a fund manager at WestLB Mellon Asset
Management in Dusseldorf, Germany, which manages about 40
billion euros ($49 billion.) “If we can trust what companies
are saying, we now have some nice valuation levels in stocks.”  
 The Euro Stoxx 50 rose for an eighth day today and was up
0.3 percent to 2,735.22 as of 10:51 a.m. in London. The  Stoxx
600  gained 0.4 percent.  
 Splinter Fears  
 The Stoxx 50 fell 8 percent this year as investors were
spooked by a near default in Greece and began to question the
finances of other countries and even whether the single currency
bloc would splinter.  
 U.S. companies are nevertheless echoing  Dave Bronczek,  CEO
of FedEx Express, the largest unit of FedEx, who said June 16
that the world’s biggest air-cargo carrier has “seen solid
growth in Europe.”  
 At Dallas-based  Texas Instruments Inc. ,  Ron Slaymaker , vice
president for investor relations, said June 8 that the second-
biggest U.S. chipmaker hasn’t “seen any change yet in the
demand out of our European region.”  Ronald J. Pasek , chief
financial officer at  Altera Corp. , the San Jose, California-
based maker of programmable semiconductors, said the same day
that Europe’s debt turmoil doesn’t “fundamentally affect what
we’re seeing right now, which is good news.”  
 Currency Lifeline  
 Providing a lifeline for the economy is the euro’s 18
percent slide against the dollar since November and the recovery
in world trade from its collapse during last year’s global
recession. Societe Generale SA economists estimate that a 10
percent drop in the euro would, after a year, typically boost
economic growth as much as 0.7 percentage point than otherwise.  
 Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, said June 16 the
euro’s decline helps sales abroad and that operating profit and
deliveries may rise “significantly” this year.  Club
Mediterranee SA,  the French resorts operator, on June 11 said
summer bookings rose 18 percent in the previous eight weeks.  
 Economic indicators are also holding up, although optimism
measures have suffered from the debt crisis, with German
 investment confidence  plunging this month to the lowest in 14
months.  
 German unemployment fell twice as much as economists
forecast in May and the European Commission’s  business climate
indicator  rose to the highest in two years. European industrial
production increased more than economists forecast in April, led
by demand for goods such as steel and car engines.  
 Spain sold 3.5 billion euros of debt at an auction
yesterday. A 30-year bond was overbid 2.45 times compared with
1.38 times at a similar sale in March, easing concern the
government will struggle to finance looming debt maturities.  
 ‘Come Around’  
 “As we get more good than bad news, the markets will
realize and the fear of a double-dip recession is going to
evaporate,” said  Erik Nielsen , chief European economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in London, whose forecast of 1.4
percent euro-area growth this year is stronger than the 1.1
percent median prediction of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. “People are still bearish, but will come around.”  
 The pain may still come as governments withdraw stimulus
measures and companies complete a restocking of inventories,
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group NV in Brussels.
That will leave economies with strong export industries, such as
Germany, to power growth in the region.  
 “We’re having a pretty good first half of this year and
then the austerity measures will start to bite,” said Brzeski.
“At the same time, that impact will be very unevenly spread.
Exporting countries like Germany should be OK.”  
 Challenge  
 Morgan Stanley economists say Spain, Greece, Portugal and
France are likely to be hurt most by spending cuts and calculate
that fiscal belt-tightening will shave 0.4 percentage points off
euro-area growth this year and up to 1 percentage point in 2011.  
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  CEO  Louis Gallois 
on June 9 said public budget constraints are a key challenge for
the aerospace company.  
 Investors are signaling the worst for the region may be
over. A Bank of America Merrill Lynch survey of 207 fund
managers overseeing $606 billion this month indicated an
improvement in sentiment towards Europe after a decline in May.
A net 12 percent of those polled said the euro-area was the
region they would most like to “underweight” compared with 30
percent in May, while the proportion identifying the region as
having the weakest profit outlook fell to 33 percent from 41
percent.  
 “Investors are starting to see the basis for Europe’s
rehabilitation,” said  Gary Baker , head of European equities
strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     MasterCard is sustaining its volume in Europe, despite European debt crisis. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
