-- Fee Busters
-- Warren Giles
-- 2010-06-17T16:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/fee-busters.html

          
          
             A new breed of
consultants is working to pare the costs that private banks
charge to invest your money.  
 After steffen binder and his partners sold a Frankfurt-based
Internet research firm for $15 million in September 2000, he
invested his share of the windfall with private banks. As the
dot-com bubble burst, his holdings shrank faster and then rose
more slowly than the market.  
 Binder discovered that fees were eating into his returns by
pushing the annual cost of his accounts to more than twice the
0.8 percent to 1.2 percent of assets charged by a majority of
wealth managers.  
 “Ninety percent of wealth management clients are not aware of
the costs they pay indirectly,” says Binder, 44, who in 2008 co-
founded MyPrivateBanking.com, a Kreuzlingen, Switzerland-based
firm that provides research and analysis on the private-banking
industry. “If they invest in relatively expensive alternative
products, it can be a huge amount.”  
 Higher fees erode returns over time. A private-banking client
with $10 million invested, for example, who earns annual returns
of 7 percent a year and pays 2.3 percent in fees, will hand $3.4
million to his bankers over the course of a decade. With fees of
0.9 percent, that client would pay $1.3 million.  
 Some clients are pushing back by hiring former bankers to chisel
away at their fees. William Drake, co-founder of Lord North
Street Ltd., a London-based firm that negotiates lower fees,
says the rich often pay too much because banks urge investors to
buy their own funds and trade more than necessary to boost
commissions.  
 “Most wealth managers and banks have a stumping conflict of
interest because their riskier products earn them more fees,”
says Drake, who worked at London-based firms Kleinwort Benson
and Granville Plc for more than 20 years. “If your adviser is
getting three times more for hedge funds and private equity than
government bonds, you’re asking for trouble.”  
 A survey of 20 European wealth managers with offices in
Switzerland that was conducted by MyPrivateBanking.com last year
identified the three with the most-transparent fees: Sal.
Oppenheim Group, now a unit of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG;
Geneva-based partnership Lombard Odier; and Union Bancaire
Privee, also of Geneva, scored highest on “acceptable flat fees
and low hidden costs,” which added up to about 1.1 percent,
including transactions, the survey found.  
 The addition of mutual funds, hedge funds and structured
products to a portfolio of stocks and bonds increased total
annual fees by an average of 1 percent to 2.5 percent annually,
excluding some performance fees, the study showed. Charges by
wealth managers may include performance fees, transaction
expenses, commissions, foreign-currency and counterparty costs
and tax advisory fees, Drake says. He has counted at least 17
ways in which wealth managers can charge clients.  
 Raoul Hinder, a former investment banker and wealth manager at
UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, started Baar, Switzerland-
based Goodvalues last year. Hinder’s service tallies how much a
client is paying and then meets with bankers to negotiate lower
fees. Although not all such advisers manage money, they may
recommend where to find better returns.  
 “If you can do it on your own, go ahead,” says Hinder, who takes
38 percent of the client’s first-year savings. In one case,
Hinder negotiated on a client’s behalf and managed to reduce the
fees on a 45 million Swiss franc ($40 million) portfolio to 0.8
percent annually from 2.1 percent by eliminating all but “plain
vanilla” investments, he says. Hinder says clients need to
understand that they won’t be able to invest in hedge and
private-equity funds without paying higher fees.  
 MyPrivateBanking.com’s Binder advises investors to treat bankers
as they would attorneys, paying them by the hour for research
and investment proposals, with a commitment that they will
rebate any kickbacks they receive from fund providers to ensure
that there are no conflicts of interest. “People are often aware
that they’re paying more than the basic management fee,” Binder
says, “but they don’t dare ask how much.”  
 Warren Giles covers wealth management at Bloomberg News in
Geneva at  wgiles@bloomberg.net   
 #<535521.2245115.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jun/17/2010 16:00 GMT
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Illustration by Darrel Rees  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
