-- FHB in Share Exchange Deal to Take Over Banking Unit of Allianz Hungaria
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-06-17T08:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/fhb-in-share-exchange-deal-to-take-over-banking-unit-of-allianz-hungaria.html

          
          
             Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt. ,
Hungary’s second-largest mortgage lender, will take over the
banking unit of Hungary’s largest insurer, Allianz Hungaria
Insurance Co., in a share exchange deal.  
 The deal is part of a 20-year agreement that would see FHB
and Allianz distribute each other’s financial products on an
exclusive basis, FHB said in a statement posted on the website
of the Budapest Stock Exchange today. The agreement can’t be
terminated in the first five years, the statement said.  
 Allianz, which held 9.57 percent of FHB’s shares at the end
of the first quarter, pledged to keep “a significant
shareholding” in FHB in the “long term,” as part of the deal,
of which no further details were disclosed. The parties said
they plan to sign the final agreement in July.  
 “This deal is about FHB wanting to expand and buying up a
bank that couldn’t find a place of its own in the local
market,” said  Attila Vago , analyst at local brokerage Concorde
Securities. There’re synergies between the two lenders as both
focus on the retail segment, Vago said.  
 FHB  shares  advanced as much as 37 forint, or 3.1 percent,
to 1,245 forint, the highest since June 9. They were trading at
1,235 forint at 10:14 a.m. in Budapest.  
 Hungarian banks and insurers are in talks with the newly
elected government over the terms of an extraordinary tax on
financial institutions to be introduced this year for a period
of three years. The tax, which the government expects to yield
200 billion forint ($875 million) in revenue this year, is a
condition for the country’s financial stability and is “set in
stone,”, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told business weekly
 Figyelo . The levy may significantly reduce lending and may force
some insurers to quit the market, heads of the banking and the
insurers’ associations said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        