-- Flemish Nationalist De Wever Picked by King for Talks on Belgian Coalition
-- John Martens
-- 2010-06-17T14:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/flemish-nationalist-de-wever-picked-by-king-for-talks-on-belgian-coalition.html

          
          
             Belgium’s   King Albert II  picked
Flemish nationalist party leader  Bart De Wever  to explore
options for a coalition government that can heal the rift
between the country’s Dutch speakers and French speakers.  
 De Wever, 39, accepted his mission after meeting with the
monarch in suburban Brussels, the royal palace said today in a
statement. De Wever’s New-Flemish Alliance, or N-VA, won 27 of
the 150 seats in the June 13 national elections, emerging as the
biggest party in parliament after advocating regional powers.  
 Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may force Belgium to speed
up the government formation, which took a record nine months
three years ago. While the election result doesn’t affect the
country’s AA+ rating, a “continued political stalemate” could
put downward pressure on the debt grade,  Marko Mrsnik , a credit
analyst at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services in Madrid, wrote
in a note two days ago.  
 “It would be unfortunate if it takes too long,” National
Bank of Belgium Governor  Guy Quaden  told reporters in Brussels
yesterday. “I do hope we won’t see a repeat of the bad
experience we had three years ago.”  
 The yield premium investors demand to hold Belgian 10-year
bonds rather than German debt of similar maturity rose 1.6 basis
points to 83.4 as of 4:22 p.m. in Brussels. The spread widened
to the highest level since March 2009 last week, reaching 107.6
basis points on June 8.  
 Two-Thirds Majority  
 Belgium has the third-highest debt relative to gross
domestic product of the 16 nations sharing the euro, after
Greece and Italy. Its public debt is projected to surpass gross
domestic product before the end of this year, according to
National Bank forecasts published yesterday, assuming a 2010
budget deficit of 5 percent.  
 “I’m convinced that we will be able in Belgium to reach a
reasonable compromise and a balanced institutional agreement,”
 Elio Di Rupo , 58, whose Parti Socialiste won 26 seats in
parliament and overtook the Liberals of outgoing Finance
Minister  Didier Reynders  among French-speaking parties, told
reporters in Brussels yesterday. “Ideally, the next government
should have a large majority of two thirds of the seats in
parliament.”  
 A six-party coalition made up of N-VA, Christian Democrats
and Socialists in the Dutch-speaking north and of Socialists,
Humanists and Greens among French-speaking parties would have
100 of the 150 seats in the  Chamber of Representatives , enough
to make changes to Belgium’s constitution.  
 Linguistic Divide  
 Such a coalition would reflect the ruling regional
governments on both sides of the linguistic divide. Di Rupo’s
Socialists could also opt to bring in Reynders’s Liberals rather
than Humanists and Greens, adding one more seat in a five-party
coalition.  
 The job handed to De Wever, called “informateur” in
French, is to sound out the options and report back to the
monarch. The politician given the royal assignment doesn’t
necessarily go on to become prime minister. In 2003, the king
picked Di Rupo to propose options and in 1999 he tapped  Louis Michel  of the French Liberals. Neither went on to become
government chief.  
 After the 2007 elections, King Albert II first gave
Reynders an exploratory assignment. Reynders handed the job back
after four weeks and the monarch then put  Jean-Luc Dehaene , a
former prime minister, on a conciliation mission before  Yves Leterme  was given an opportunity to assemble a government
coalition.  
 Should Di Rupo become prime minister in the next
government, he would be the first French speaker from Wallonia
in the job since Edmond Leburton in 1974.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        