-- Food Inflation Slows as Rains in India Boosts Harvest, Drive Prices Lower
-- Tushar Dhara
-- 2010-06-17T07:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/food-inflation-slows-as-rains-in-india-boosts-harvest-drive-prices-lower.html

          
          
             India’s food inflation slowed as
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said prospects of sufficient
rains this year will boost harvests, driving prices even lower.  
 An  index  measuring wholesale prices of agriculture products
including lentils, rice and vegetables compiled by the commerce
ministry rose 16.12 percent in the week ended June 5 from a year
earlier, according to a statement released in New Delhi today.
It gained 16.74 percent the previous week.  
 Conditions are “favorable” for the four-month monsoon
rains through September to advance further into the country, the
India Meteorological Department said on its website today. The
 food inflation  rate has stayed above 15 percent since November
as last year’s showers were the least in India since 1972.  
 “Prices will head down and the monsoon will play a
critical role,” said Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist at
Mumbai-based Crisil Ltd., the Indian unit of Standard & Poor’s.
“We should see a significant moderation by October.”  
 The monsoon is the main source of irrigation for India’s
farms. Mukherjee said June 14 that food costs will fall after
July.  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond dropped
two basis points to 7.57 percent at 12:05 p.m. in Mumbai today.
The  Sensitive Index  rose 0.2 percent to 17,502.37 on the Bombay
Stock Exchange.  
 Consumer Demand  
 As food costs decline, pressure on inflation is being
replaced by growing demand for manufactured products. India’s
wholesale-price  inflation  unexpectedly accelerated to 10.16
percent in May, a government report showed this week.  
 Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao ’s ability to increase interest
rates without slowing growth has been hampered by a cash crunch
in the banking system. Subbarao has raised the central bank’s
benchmark rate twice since mid-March. The  reverse repurchase
rate  is 3.75 percent.  
 Cash availability dropped after the government raised 677.2
billion rupees ($14.5 billion) from last month’s auction of
mobile-phone permits to companies including  Bharti Airtel Ltd.   
 Overnight interbank rates climbed to 5.35 percent at 1:05
p.m. in Mumbai today from 4.9 percent at the end of May.  
 The Reserve Bank of India yesterday announced plans to buy
back 100 billion rupees of government securities through an
auction tomorrow to boost cash in the financial system.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        