-- China Says G20 Meeting in Toronto Not `Proper' Venue for Discussing Yuan
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-17T09:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/foreign-ministry-says-yuan-exchange-rate-is-not-barrier-to-global-growth.html

          
          
             China said the Group of 20 world
leaders’  summit  in Toronto later this month is not a “proper”
venue for discussing the valuation of the yuan, Foreign Ministry
Spokesman Qin Gang said.  
 “We feel that to discuss the renminbi exchange rate at the
G-20 is not proper,” Qin told reporters in Beijing, using
another word for China’s currency. “The renminbi exchange rate
was not a cause of the global financial crisis, and isn’t an
obstacle to the recovery of the global economy.”  
 China has kept the yuan pegged to about 6.83 to one U.S.
dollar for the past two years and is under pressure from the U.S.
to revalue its currency. If China does not move on its own soon
after the G-20 summit, the U.S. Congress may vote on legislation
to push China to revalue the yuan, House Ways and Means
Committee Chairman  Sander Levin  said.  
 After the G-20 meeting, “if China does not act and the
administration does not respond promptly thereafter, the
Congress will act,” Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said yesterday
at a hearing in Washington.  
 Lawmakers such as Levin and New York Democrat Senator
 Charles Schumer  are prodding President  Barack Obama  to take a
tougher line on China. A weak yuan gives Chinese exporters an
unfair advantage over their U.S. competitors, according to
lawmakers including Schumer.  
 Qin confirmed that President  Hu Jintao  will be in Canada
June 23-27. The G-20 will be held June 26-27 in Toronto.  
 The yuan’s 12-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.18
percent to 6.7473 per dollar as of 2:46 p.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts show
traders are betting on 1.2 percent appreciation from the spot
rate of 6.8312.  
 Qin said that the timing of any change in the yuan’s value
depended on the economic situation in China and internationally.
Qin said China was committed to “renminbi exchange rate
reform.”  
 At the G-20, China plans to push for greater representation
for developing countries at the International Monetary Fund,
emphasize the need to combat protectionism and raise the level
of attention for development issues, Qin said.  
 -- Michael Forsythe  in Beijing. With assistance from  Mark Drajem 
in Washington. Editors:  Paul Tighe ,  Ben Richardson .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        