-- Game Group Names New Chief Executive Officer; Shares Fall as Sales Decline
-- David Altaner
-- 2010-06-17T08:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/game-group-falls-as-names-new-chief-executive-officer-reports-sales-drop.html

          
          
             Game Group Plc  dropped the most
since April as Europe’s biggest electronics-game store chain
named a new chief executive officer and shook up management in
France and Australia as sales declined.  
 Sales at stores open at least a year decreased 12 percent,
the Basingstoke, England-based retailer said today. Game said it
appointed  Ian Shepherd , former Vodafone Group Plc U.K. consumer
director, as CEO. Shares dropped as much as 8.7 percent.  
 Shepherd replaces  Lisa Morgan , who stepped down in April.
Sales have been dropping because the company hasn’t had a major
new console to spur revenue since Sony Corp.’s Playstation 3 in
2007. Game said it’s changing managers and shutting outlets in
France and Australia, where the company is losing money.  
 “We see this as quite a transitional year as we move
forwards to the new hardware,” interim Chief Executive  Chris Bell  said on a conference call. Shepherd, 41, takes over as CEO
June 28, and Bell remains as a director.  
 Game decreased 6.5 pence to 81.75 pence at 8:53 a.m. in
London after earlier declining as much as 7.65 pence to 80.6
pence. The shares have fallen 23 percent so far this year,
giving the company a market value of 283.4 million pounds
($415.6 million).  
 Game was cut to “hold” today from “buy” by Seymour
Pierce analyst,  Freddie George .  
 Sales Decline  
 Game said U.K. electronic-games industry sales have
declined 19 percent so far this year. It’s adding digital
titles, improved its Internet presence and closed stores to cut
costs as it fights discount competition.  
 Full-year gross margin will probably decrease by 100 basis
points due to discounting, the company said.  
 New games such as Gran Turismo 5 and console add-ons such
as Microsoft Corp.’s motion-detecting Xbox 360 Natal device
should help Christmas sales but won’t “materially impact” the
company’s performance until next year.  
 Game said it will have closed 42 outlets in the U.K. by
June 19. In France, it will shut less than 10 shops, and in
Australia, about 20, according to Finance Director  Ben White ,
speaking on the call. It currently has 1,343 outlets worldwide,
with 198 in France and 118 in Australia.  
 The French and Australian changes should mean operations in
the countries will break even next year, the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Altaner  in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        