-- Gazans Say Israeli Blockade Keeps Homes in Decay, Fails to Undermine Hamas
-- Saud Abu Ramadan
-- 2010-06-17T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/gazans-say-israeli-blockade-keeps-homes-in-decay-fails-to-undermine-hamas.html

          
          
             Half of Mohammed Abed Rabbo’s
extended family of 23 lives in a tent next to the rubble of his
two-story house in Gaza’s  Jabalia  refugee camp, while the rest
is crowded into a small rented home nearby.  
 Abed Rabbo says his house was destroyed 17 months ago by
Israeli bulldozers after Palestinian militants hid nearby and
fired at soldiers. The 55-year-old potato farmer says he can’t
get material needed to rebuild because Israel restricts most
construction supplies from entering Hamas-ruled Gaza.  
 His is one of more than 3,000 homes that the United Nations
reported were destroyed during the 22-day military offensive
Israel says it initiated in December 2008 to stop Hamas and
other groups from firing rockets at its southern towns. Israel
clamped restrictions on goods entering Gaza after Hamas seized
control there in 2007 and has begun relaxing them after facing
international pressure in the wake of its May 31 raid on an aid
flotilla that left nine pro-Palestinian activists dead.  
 “The siege has affected everything in Gaza,” Abed Rabbo,
whose farm is near Gaza’s northern border, said in an interview
before yesterday’s Israeli decision to loosen the blockade.
“It’s destroyed our lives.”  
 The lives of Abed Rabbo and the 1.5 million other residents
of Gaza have become hostage to a three-cornered political
struggle pitting Hamas -- which Israel, the U.S. and the
European Union have branded as terrorist -- against both the
Jewish state and the Palestinian Authority government that
controls the West Bank.  
 ‘Pressuring the Population’  
 While Israel saw the blockade as a way to undermine Hamas’s
hold on Gaza by turning the population against it, the strategy
hasn’t worked, said Mohsen Adnan, director of the  Arab Center
for Agricultural Development  in Gaza City.  
 “Israel hoped that by pressuring the population in Gaza,
Hamas would be uprooted, but Hamas is still strong and the
people have been exhausted by the siege,” Adnan said in a
telephone interview.  
 Human rights groups, including Amnesty International, say
restrictions on food imports and building materials have created
a humanitarian crisis. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
said June 2 that each week “an average of ten thousand tons of
goods enter Gaza” and that “there’s no shortage of food.
There’s no shortage of medicine.”  
 Israel says it restricts imports of construction materials
to Gaza because they can be used to build rockets, bunkers or
bombs. Officials said they were also concerned about weapons
being hidden in food packaging.  
 Job Losses  
 More than 1,100 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed in
the Gaza conflict. Since then, more than 400 rockets and mortars
have been fired into Israel, killing one foreign worker last
March, the Israeli army said.  
 Israel’s top ministers decided yesterday to loosen the
blockade, changing the system in which goods enter Gaza and
expanding the import of “material for civilian projects under
international supervision,” the prime minister’s office said in
a statement.  
 German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said the decision
was a “first step” that must be followed by “swift, concrete
and noticeable improvements in access to the Gaza Strip.”  
 Egypt has also largely kept its Gaza border closed since
Hamas took over because it says it doesn’t recognize the Islamic
movement’s administration. After the flotilla raid, it opened
the Rafah crossing, which is used mainly by people.  
 Hamas, which won parliamentary elections in 2006, ousted
troops loyal to Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas 
the following year and took full control of Gaza.  
 ‘Food Insecure’  
 At least 3,540 homes in Gaza were destroyed in the conflict
with Israel and 2,870 were severely damaged, the UN Office for
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said in an  August 2009
report . Restrictions on imports and exports resulted in the loss
of some 120,000 jobs, the report said.  
 Haytham Khudeir, 30, who runs an import business out of an
office in downtown Gaza City, estimates he’s lost some $500,000
in sales since Israel cut off most shipments into the territory.
He buys coffee, mineral water and cooking oil at increased
prices that come through smuggling tunnels from Egypt, built to
circumvent the blockade, and can’t get the quantities once
available through Israel.  
 “It’s very difficult to get quality products and people
don’t have money to buy them,” Khudeir said. “Running a
business in Gaza these days is almost impossible.”  
 The UN classifies 75 percent of Gaza’s population as “food
insecure,” meaning they lack access to sufficient safe and
nutritious food. It cited a shift in the diet of Gazans from
more expensive foods, such as fruit, vegetables and animal
products, to cheap and high-carbohydrate foods such as cereals,
sugar and oil.  
 ‘Vegetables and Bread’  
 “My children see fruit in the grocery stores, but we can’t
afford it,” Walid Mushtaha, a 45-year-old unemployed father of
nine, said in an interview. His family depends on food supplies
from the  United Nations Relief and Works Agency  that include
flour, olive oil, rice, sugar and canned beef. His family’s diet
consists largely of “vegetables and bread,” he said. “On
weekends we open the cans of processed beef. Fresh meat, maybe
once a month.”  
 Restricted goods ranging from computers to live cattle and
motorcycles have been available at twice to four times their
market price through the tunnels, which are licensed and taxed
by Hamas. Weapons are also smuggled in via the tunnels.  
 Full-Fledged War  
 Israel says its blockade is legal because it is in “a
state of armed conflict” with Hamas. Legal scholars such as
 Robin Churchill , a professor of international law at the
University of Dundee in Scotland, say the legality turns on
whether the conflict is a full-fledged war and whether the
military benefit is proportionate to civilian suffering.  
 Sitting in his tent and offering tea, Abed Rabbo said he
rushed his family from their house when Israel started bombing
and headed south, away from the area where fighting was most
intense.  
 After the war ended with a cease-fire on Jan. 18, 2009,
Abed Rabbo said, he and his family returned to find their home
destroyed.  
 “I thought we might be able to get some cement from the
flotilla, but look what happened,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
 Saud Abu Ramadan  in Gaza City at  sramadan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        