-- Generic-Drug Delay Fight May Be Near `Turning Point,' FTC's Leibowitz Says
-- Susan Decker
-- 2010-06-17T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/generic-drug-delay-fight-may-be-near-turning-point-ftc-s-leibowitz-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. government’s decade-long
fight to limit drugmakers’ ability to keep generic medicines
off the market may reach “a turning point” soon, Federal
Trade Commission Chairman  Jonathan Leibowitz  said.  
 The FTC is counting on a review by an appeals court to
break a deadlock over agreements made by brand-name drugmakers
that it says delay the introduction of lower-priced generic
medicines. The focus is on the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in New York, which may decide by August whether to
review a deal between  Bayer AG  and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. ’s Barr unit on when a generic version of the
antibiotic Cipro can go on the market.  
 The Cipro case “signals a renewed concern about these
pay-for-delay deals, and hopefully it will mark a turning point
towards a legal rule that prohibits brand pharmaceutical
companies from paying off their generic competitors to sit it
out,” Leibowitz, 52, said in an interview. The review could
bring the issue of agreements before the Supreme Court.  
 The fight pits drugmakers against the FTC, the Justice
Department, pharmacies such as  CVS Caremark Corp . and President
 Barack Obama , who cited the greater availability of generic
drugs as a  way  to reduce health-care costs. There also is an
effort in Congress to restrict the settlements.  
 Licensing Deals  
 The FTC contends brand-name makers offer generic-drug
companies licensing rights on a product or other compensation
in exchange for an agreement on when cheaper drugs are
introduced. The agency said it supports settlements, except
when there is some sort of financial consideration.  
 Medicines that generate about $92 billion in sales will
face generic competition through 2014 because of expiring
patents, according to the research firm  IMS Health Inc .
Medicines accounted for $250.3 billion in U.S. sales for brand-
name drugmakers in 2009 and $35.8 billion for generic firms,
according to Norwalk, Connecticut-based IMS.  
 Defending valid patents is vital, said  Jerry Pappert ,
general counsel of Frazer, Pennsylvania-based  Cephalon Inc .
“If the branded company loses, it loses its franchise.”  
 Cephalon is being sued by the FTC, which contends the
drugmaker paid more than $200 million for generic companies to
drop their challenge to patents on its sleep-disorder drug
Provigil. Cephalon says the settlements are in accordance with
patent law.  
 No Delay  
 In the Cipro case, CVS and other pharmacies said Bayer
paid $398.1 million for Barr to drop its patent challenge.
David Stark, general counsel for  Teva’ s North America unit,
said generic-drug makers aren’t delaying marketing products as
a result of financial incentives. The agreements are no
different than patent deals in other industries, he said.  
 Leibowitz said the agreements add to health-care costs. If
some settlements between companies aren’t prohibited, “you’re
going to pay seven, eight, 10 times as much as you otherwise
would,” he said. The FTC said the deals  cost  consumers $3.5
billion annually, a figure disputed by economists such as
 Jonathan Orszag , senior managing director at the economic
consulting firm Compass Lexecon in Washington and the brother
of White House Budget Director  Peter Orszag .  
 Courts have allowed the settlements as long as they don’t
prevent entry of the generic beyond a patent’s lifespan.  
 In the  Cipro  case, the agreement allowed a generic drug to
be sold six months before the patent expired, said  Kathleen Jaeger , chief executive officer of the  Generic Pharmaceutical
Association , a Washington trade group.  
 ‘Tremendous Value’  
 “The FTC doesn’t see the tremendous value the patent
settlements have brought to the system,” she said.  
 Since February, courts have thrown out antitrust lawsuits
over  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. ’s blood-thinner Plavix and
AndroGel, a testosterone ointment now made by Abbott
Laboratories. The FTC lost a case over a settlement involving
Schering-Plough Corp.’s K-Dur heart medication.  
 A three-judge panel in April upheld the Cipro settlement,
though it recommended opponents seek a review by the full
court.  
 The potential court review, along with legislation
Leibowitz predicted Congress would pass this year, add momentum
to efforts to limit deals. Senators  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin
Democrat, and  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, introduced
an anti-deal measure. House legislation would bar the
settlements.  
 ‘Winds Are Shifting’  
 “The winds are shifting on the legal front, shifting on
the commission front and on the legislative front,” said
 Robert Doyle , a former FTC official.  
 Ken Johnson , a senior vice president at the Pharmaceutical
Research and Manufacturers of America, a Washington trade
group, said brand-name drug companies need patent protection to
justify the investments required to develop medicines.
Drugmakers said the settlements also provide certainty as to
when generics will enter the market.  
 Stark said a court review may not be significant.  
 “I don’t think it’s a foregone conclusion just because
they take it up that they reverse the trend,” he said.  
 Marcy Funk , a spokeswoman for Leverkusen, Germany-based
Bayer, declined to comment.  
 All parties are watching if the 2nd Circuit agrees to hear
the Cipro case. The decision may come in August, said  David Balto , a lawyer representing consumer groups.  
 Leibowitz said he believes the FTC has a strong hand. “I
have yet to see an issue that’s as black and white,” he said.  
 The 2nd Circuit case is In Re Ciprofloxacin Hydrochloride
Antitrust Litigation, 05-2851 and 05-2852, 2nd U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (New York).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BAYER CEO  
                       
                         
                           Tannen Maury/Bloomberg News 
                         
                         Caplets of 500mg Ciprolie or "Cipro." 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Caplets of 500mg Ciprolie or "Cipro." Photographer: Tannen Maury/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       LEIBOWITZ GENERIC DRUGS  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jonathan Leibowitz, chairman of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, said today he is "optimistic" Congress will pass legislation to stop drug companies from entering agreements that delay competition from generic drugs. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jonathan Leibowitz, chairman of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, said today he is "optimistic" Congress will pass legislation to stop drug companies from entering agreements that delay competition from generic drugs. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
