-- German Bonds Fall Against Spain Notes After `Strong' Demand at Madrid Sale
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-06-17T16:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/german-government-bonds-advance-as-stocks-fall-before-sale-of-spanish-debt.html

          
          
             German government bonds narrowed
their yield difference with Spanish debt after investors snapped
up the Mediterranean country’s securities at an auction,
assuaging concern the nation will struggle to meet redemptions.  
 Spanish bonds rose, pushing the yield on the 10-year
security down from the highest since July 2008. Spain sold 3.5
billion euros ($4.3 billion) of bonds, the maximum amount, at
yields below the prevailing market rates, and attracted bids
worth as much as 2.45 times the securities on offer.  
 “This is a classic relief rally after the Spanish
auction,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in London. “A lot of the uncertainty that
was built into prices is being unwound today.”  
 The 10-year bund yield was little changed at 2.67 percent
as of 4:40 p.m. in London. The 3 percent security due July 2020
rose 0.04, or 40 euro cents per 1,000-euro face amount, to
102.88.  
 Spanish 10-year note yields dropped 12 basis points to 4.81
percent. The  premium  that investors demand to hold Spanish 10-
year bonds over benchmark bunds narrowed 11 basis points to 210
basis points.  
 The yields on other so-called peripheral euro-region bonds
halted gains versus bunds. The Portuguese-German 10-year yield
spread was little changed at 294 basis points after widening for
the previous three days. The Greek spread was little changed at
667 basis points.  
 European shares rose, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
adding 0.1 percent, while the euro gained 0.5 percent against
the dollar.  
 Stress Tests  
 Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  has made cuts
to Spain’s budget and proposed an overhaul of the labor system
as he tries to convince investors that the economy can overcome
public and private debt loads that threaten to choke off growth.  
 Spain will publish stress tests on the nation’s financial
institutions after  Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Spain’s second-largest bank, said on June
14 that capital markets were closed to most Spanish companies
and banks.  
 The Bank of Spain will make the findings public to give
investors more information on the state of the banks,  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez , the central bank governor, said in a
speech yesterday. He didn’t say whether he would release results
on individual lenders.  
 ‘Strong Demand’  
 “The strong demand for Spanish bonds should help restore
confidence,”  Ciaran O’Hagan , a fixed-income strategist at
Societe Generale SA in Paris, wrote in a research note today.
“The good demand was only possible after considerable
cheapening of the Spanish bonds over the past days.”  
 Spain sold 3 billion euros of 4 percent 2020 bonds at an
average yield of 4.864 percent, attracting offers worth 1.89
times the securities offered, compared with 2.03 the last time
they were sold in May. It also issued 479.17 million euros of
4.7 percent 2041 bonds at an average yield of 5.908 percent with
a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.45, compared with 1.38 at the previous
sale of the bonds in March.  
 France also sold debt today, issuing 9.7 billion euros of
notes and bonds maturing between 2012 and 2040 including
inflation-linked securities.  
 French 10-year bond yields fell two basis points to 3.09
percent. Two-year yields gained one basis point to 0.81 percent.  
 Cutting Debt  
 Greece is making good on the deficit-reduction pledges it
offered to activate a 110 billion-euro ($137 billion) package of
rescue loans that allowed the country to avoid default, European
Union and International Monetary Fund officials said.  
 “The program is on track on all of the main dimensions,”
Servas Deroose, deputy director general of the European
Commission’s economic and financial affairs department, told
reporters in Athens today.  
 Deroose is part of a team of EU and IMF officials in Athens
to review the government’s progress in implementing a package of
austerity measures worth about 14 percent of gross domestic
product that aims to bring the region’s second-biggest budget
deficit within the EU limit in 2014. Greece’s near-default has
contributed to a 13 percent drop in the euro this year on
concern that other high-deficit countries such as Spain may also
need aid.  
 Spanish government bonds lost investors 4.3 percent this
year, compared with returns of 6.5 percent for German bonds and
a 15 percent loss for Greek debt, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. French bonds have climbed 5.1 percent and Italian
debt returned 0.8 percent.  
 “Spain is rather attractive if compared with other markets
such as Italy and France,”  Georg Schuh , chief investment
officer for Europe at DB Advisors, said on a conference call.
“The selloff in Spain is rather overdone compared with other
countries.”  
 Since the EU announced a 750 billion-euro rescue package
last month, there have been no failed auctions and euro-region
nations’ financing “has been effective,” Schuh said. DB
Advisors is a unit of Deutsche Bank AG.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has made cuts to Spain’s budget as he tries to convince investors that the economy can overcome public and private debt loads that threaten to choke off growth. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
