-- Social Democrats to Topple Merkel's CDU in Germany's Most Populous State
-- Patrick Donahue
-- 2010-06-17T14:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/german-social-democrats-to-topple-merkel-s-cdu-in-north-rhine-westphalia.html

          
          
             Germany’s Social Democrats plan to
topple the state government of Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democrats in the country’s largest state by forming a
minority coalition, ending weeks of deadlocked negotiations.  
 The SPD in the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia will
form an alliance with the state’s Green Party that will be one
vote shy of a majority,  Hannelore Kraft , the party’s state
leader, said today. The move would end the five-year state
premiership of Merkel’s CDU ally,  Juergen Ruettgers .  
 The state “now needs a more stable government than Mr.
Ruettgers can offer,” Kraft said today on the party’s  website .  
 Merkel, whose national coalition with the pro-business Free
Democratic Party has been battered in opinion polls because of
the euro-area debt crisis and infighting, lost control of North
Rhine-Westphalia in a May 9 regional election. Ruettgers’ ouster
would also cost the federal government its majority in the upper
house of parliament, or Bundesrat, potentially hampering
Merkel’s ability to push through her agenda.  
 Although the CDU-FDP government lost its majority, the
Social Democrats were unable to replace it with their preferred
partner, the Greens. Weeks of negotiations with the CDU, the FDP
and the anti-capitalist Left Party to form a coalition failed,
and Kraft initially said she would seek to push through an
agenda from the opposition while Ruettgers stayed on as
caretaker premier.  
 In a minority government, Kraft will have to rely on at
least one opposition vote to pass legislation, likely from the
Left Party, made up nationally of union activists and members of
former East Germany’s communist party.  
 Kraft ended talks with the Left Party last month, saying it
lacked appreciation for “democracy and historical
understanding,” a reference to its ties to the former communist
regime.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        