-- Gold May Climb as European Debt-Crisis Concern Spurs Demand, Survey Shows
-- Nicholas Larkin
-- 2010-06-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/gold-may-advance-as-economic-concern-spurs-demand-survey-indicates.html

          
          
             Gold may advance to a record as
investors buy the metal to protect wealth amid concern that
Europe’s financial crisis will be prolonged and as the global
economic recovery shows signs of slowing, a survey found.  
 Eighteen of 20 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 90 percent, said bullion would rise next week.
None forecast lower prices and two were neutral. Gold for
delivery in August was up 1.3 percent for this week at $1,245.90
an ounce at noon in New York yesterday. It reached a record
$1,254.50 on June 8.  
 The metal gained this year amid speculation that debt-
cutting measures by European nations will slow growth. World
Bank President  Robert Zoellick  this week said there are
“challenges” ahead in Europe even if rescue packages put
together by the authorities have “bought time.” Spain’s
central bank said June 16 it planned to publish the results of
stress tests on the nation’s lenders to counter speculation the
country needs international aid.  
 “Gold is sending the signal that paper money, and the
people that control paper money, can’t be trusted,” said  Adrian Day , chief executive officer of Adrian Day Asset Management in
Annapolis, Maryland. “Gold’s action the past several weeks has
been remarkably strong, recovering from declines quickly. All
the reasons that caused global investors to buy gold over the
past six months remain.”  
 U.S. Jobless Claims  
 Reports released yesterday showed an unexpected increase in
U.S. jobless claims last week and lower-than-estimated growth in
Philadelphia manufacturing in June, casting doubt on the
strength of the economic recovery.  
 The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling that most respondents expect a
decline. The green line shows the gold price. The data shown are
as of June 11.  
 The weekly gold survey that started six years ago has
forecast prices accurately in 181 of 315 weeks, or 57 percent of
the time.  
 This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 18  Bearish : 0  Neutral : 2  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        