-- Gold Prices Rise, Approach Record, on Demand for Alternative to Currencies
-- Pham-Duy Nguyen
-- 2010-06-17T18:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/gold-prices-rise-approach-record-on-demand-for-alternative-to-currencies.html

          
          
             Gold approached its record high as
demand escalated for an alternative investment to currencies
amid a slump by the dollar and Europe’s mounting sovereign-debt
crisis.  
 The  greenback  dropped to the lowest level in almost four
weeks against a basket of major currencies after the number of
Americans seeking jobless benefits rose unexpectedly. The euro
has slumped 14 percent against the dollar this year on the heels
of the region’s fiscal woes. Gold futures reached an all-time
high of $1,254.50 an ounce on June 8.  
 “Gold has the weight of the world on its shoulders,” said
 Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated Brokerage Services
in Chicago.  
 Gold futures for delivery in August rose $18.20, or 1.5
percent, to $1,248.70 on the Comex in New York, the biggest gain
since June 7. Earlier, the metal reached $1,252.80.  
 U.S. equities and most major commodities declined on
speculation the economy will be slow to recover from the
recession.  
 “There’s background fear in these markets,” said  Bill O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in Upper Saddle River, New
Jersey. “Other shoes are going to drop in Europe. You don’t
want to hold dollars, euros and yen. Gold has great appeal as an
alternative and safety asset.”  
 Spain sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of bonds, the
maximum set for the auction, easing concern that the country
will struggle to finance looming debt maturities. The nation has
the third-largest deficit in the euro region.  
 ‘Perceived Safety’  
 “People are relieved that the auction isn’t a failure, but
if borrowing costs continue to jump for these countries, it’s
going to be harder to remedy the situation in Europe,” said
 Matt Zeman , a trader at LaSalle Futures Group in Chicago. “Gold
trades more and more like a currency now, and people are
flocking to the perceived safety of the metal.”  
 Gold historically has moved in tandem with the euro as an
alternative to the dollar. This year, gold denominated in euros,
U.K. pounds and Swiss francs has climbed to records.  
 “Gold is defying the recent trend and starting to embrace
its classic commodity theme and moving on a weak dollar,” said
 Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock in
Chicago.  
 The dollar extended declines after a report showed
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in June at a
slower rate than forecast.  
 “There are renewed fears the U.S. economy is starting to
slide off,” McGhee of Integrated said. “Gold is starting to
re-establish its inverse relationship to the dollar.”  
 Silver futures for July delivery rose 33.5 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $18.776 an ounce on the Comex.  
 Platinum futures for July delivery climbed $4.50, or 0.3
percent, to $1,572 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  
 Palladium futures for September delivery gained $6.05, or
1.3 percent, to $481.25 an ounce.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        