-- Greek Soccer Team Gives Nation Respite With First World Cup Tournament Win
-- Alastair Reed
-- 2010-06-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/greek-soccer-team-gives-nation-respite-with-first-world-cup-tournament-win.html

          
          
             Greece’s soccer team gave the nation
reason to put its economic woes aside last night by securing the
country’s first World Cup win.  
 The Greeks, forced to defend for the early part of the game,
rallied from 1-0 down to beat Nigeria 2-1 in Bloemfontein, South
Africa, after Super Eagles midfielder Sani Kaita was red-carded.  
 “I’m very happy,” Greece coach  Otto Rehhagel  told
reporters at the Free State Stadium after the match. “We scored
goals and we collected points. It would have been a shame to
have been sent home again without a point.”  
 Greece, at the center of a debt crisis in Europe which has
led to spending cuts, higher taxes and lower wages, is making
its second appearance at the four-yearly championship and hadn’t
scored a goal in four World Cup games before yesterday.  
 Prime Minister  George Papandreou , who delayed the start of
his press conference after a European Union summit in Brussels
yesterday to watch the end of the match, said the victory lifted
the mood of the nation.  
 “The boys on the national team made us proud,” said
Papandreou, who was forced in April to ask other euro-area
governments and the International Monetary Fund for an
unprecedented loan package to avoid a debt default. “In such a
period when Greece has gone through a lot of bad news, it was a
very important glimmer of light for us all.”  
 Nigeria, which is eight places below Greece at 21st in
FIFA’s  world rankings , opened the scoring in the 16th minute as
midfielder Kalu Uche’s 35-yard free-kick evaded players from
both teams before bouncing past Greece goalie  Alexandros Tzorvas .  
 Turning Point  
 With the Nigerians pressing for a second goal, Kaita’s
sudden departure from the game disrupted their rhythm. With the
ball out of play, the Nigerian defender kicked out at Greece’s
Vasileios Torosidis, earning himself a straight red card.  
 “That was probably the turning point,” said Nigeria
captain  Joseph Yobo . “We started very well and we scored a goal,
but the sending off changed things because until then we were in
control.”  
 Nigeria’s Swedish coach,  Lars Lagerback , accused Torosidis
of play-acting to get Kaita dismissed.  
 “What I heard was that he kicked him with his studs, and
that the Greek player was lying on the pitch holding his head,”
Lagerback told reporters. “It looks very strange.”  
 With a man advantage, Greece introduced an extra striker in
 Georgios Samaras  to replace Sokratis Papastathopoulos, the
player with the longest name at the tournament. Striker Dimitros
Salpingidis had a close-range shot blocked by goalkeeper  Vincent Enyeama  before Samaras’s effort was cleared off the line.  
 Salpingidis then tied the game a minute before halftime
with a shot from about 20 yards which deflected off Nigerian
midfielder Lukman Haruna.  
 Enyeama Fumble  
 Enyeama, voted man of the match for the second straight
game, kept the Greeks at bay before a fumble gifted striker
Torosidis a 71st-minute goal. Chants of “Hellas” started to
replace the vuvuzelas and drums that had previously echoed
around the two-thirds full stadium.  
 The win followed four straight losses for Greece at the
most-watched sports event. Its previous appearance in 1994 ended
in group-stage defeats to Argentina, Bulgaria and Nigeria, while
Rehhagel’s squad opened the current campaign June 12 by going
down 2-0 to South Korea.  
 Greece plays its final Group B match June 22 against
Argentina, which leads the pool standings with six points from
two games following yesterday’s 4-1 win over the Koreans.  
 “I don’t care what happens now,” Torosidis told reporters.
“I’m just delighted for the team, and for the fans who never
stopped believing in us.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alastair Reed  in Bloemfontein on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        