-- Greece Beats Nigeria 2-1 for First Victory at World Cup Soccer Tournament
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-17T16:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/greece-beats-nigeria-2-1-for-first-victory-at-world-cup-soccer-tournament.html

          
          
             Greece came from behind to defeat
10-man Nigeria 2-1 for its first victory ever at soccer’s World
Cup.  
 Dimitrios Salpingidis and Vasileios Torosidis scored for
Greece, which had lost its four previous World Cup matches
without scoring a goal. Nigeria’s Sani Kaita received a red card
in the 33rd minute.  
 Argentina leads Group B with 6 points after a 4-1 win over
South Korea, which is tied with Greece on 3 points.  
 “I wish we’d showed a lot more character and attitude to
try and get at least a draw,” Nigeria captain  Joseph Yobo  said
in a televised interview. “It’s going to be very difficult now,
we don’t know what’s going to happen because we’ve lost our two
games. It looks like that even if we win the next one, we’re not
going to qualify, so practically we are out of the tournament.”  
 Nigeria opened the scoring in the 15th minute as Kalu
Uche’s free kick from 35 yards went past players from both teams
before bouncing by goalkeeper  Alexandros Tzorvas .  
 Kaita was then shown a red card 18 minutes later for
kicking out at Torosidis during a stoppage in play.  
 Greece started pushing forward with the extra man as
Salpingidis was stopped from close range by goalkeeper  Vincent Enyeama  and  Georgios Samaras  had a shot cleared off the line by
Lukman Haruna.  
 Salpingidis then tied the game a minute before halftime
with a shot from about 20 yards which deflected off Haruna.  
 One-Handed Save  
 Sotirios Kyrgiakos  had a header stopped by Enyeama 10
minutes into the second half with Nigeria briefly down to nine
men after an injury to Taye Taiwo, who was replaced by Uwa
Echiejile.  
 Enyeama made another save against Theofanis Gekas in the
59th minute and Nigeria quickly broke to the other end where
goalkeeper Alexandros Tzorvas made a one-handed stop. Enyeama
then made a diving one-handed save in the 69th minute.  
 Torosidis gave Greece the lead two minutes later when he
tapped in the rebound after Enyeama couldn’t hold Alexandros
Tziolis’s shot.  
 Gonzalo Higuain  scored three goals earlier as Argentina
defeated South Korea to remain unbeaten after two games.
Argentina meets Greece in the final round of Group B games on
June 22, and Nigeria faces South Korea.  
 France plays Mexico later today in a Group A match.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        