-- Greek Pension System Pays Daughters Not to Marry
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-06-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/greek-pension-time-bomb-may-be-difficult-to-defuse-for-unwed-daughters.html

          
          
             Sophia Constantinidou works as a
teacher in a private school in Athens. She also has a more
lucrative job: remaining unmarried.  
 The 52-year-old gets 400 euros ($496) a month from the
Greek government, part of her late mother’s state pension. Under
the current system, Constantinidou qualifies to receive the
payment for life as the only surviving child of a deceased civil
servant, provided she doesn’t tie the knot.  
 “It’s not that I didn’t want to get married,”
Constantinidou, whose mother died 20 years ago, said in an
interview. “But after I turned 40, I realized I wouldn’t be
getting married and that thankfully I had this.”  
 As the European Union, International Monetary Fund and bond
investors scrutinize debt-ridden Greece, they need look no
further than the pension system for a prime example of how the
country is living beyond its means. Greek pensioners on average
live on 96 percent of the salary they had when they worked, more
than twice the proportion of earnings as Germans, according to
the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development .  
 Greece “is a classic case of entitlements granted by
short-sighted governments that didn’t bother to secure financing
sources,” said  Miranda Xafa , a former director at the IMF and
now a senior investment strategist at Geneva-based IJPartners.
“The political benefit of pension entitlements granted is
immediate, but the cost will be incurred later.”  
 Arduous Jobs  
 The OECD as long as three years ago described Greece’s
state pension system as a “fiscal time bomb.”  
 Led by Prime Minister  George Papandreou , lawmakers will
begin passing legislation this month to overhaul the system,
which the EU and IMF say contributed to the country’s debt
crisis. Under terms of last month’s 110 billion-euro ($123
billion) bailout agreement, Greece will increase the retirement
age to 65 from as early as 58, curtail early retirement and
calculate payments over a longer period of employment.  
 The aim is to bring uniformity to a system riddled with
exemptions granted over decades by governments yielding to
pressure from trade unions and other groups. The bill will be
the first enacted by Papandreou’s government since the May 6
package that pledged 30 billion euros of wage and pension cuts
and tax increases over the next three years.  
 There’s one pensioner in Greece for every 1.7 workers,
compared with one for every four in 1950, according to a
government study published on May 12. There are 637 occupations
the Greek state deems to be arduous in nature and qualify to
stop work earlier. They include hairdressers, car washers,
steam-bath attendants and radio technicians.  
 ‘Paramount Reform’  
 Constantinidou isn’t included because she’s paid by the
hour and doesn’t have enough of a private pension to live on
when she’s older. She’s reliant upon the stipend she inherited
from her mother, who worked at a state hospital.  
 Should the country keep its generous benefits, Greek
pension spending will rise to 24 percent of gross domestic
product in 2060, double the proportion of 2007, the  European
Commission  estimated last year.  
 Pensions are “going to be the paramount reform in terms of
medium-term budgetary perspectives,” EU Monetary and Monetary
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on June 11.  
 With unions promising a “storm” of protests, the
government is trying to push through the bill before the
September deadline set by the EU and IMF and ahead of Greek
municipal elections, tentatively scheduled for October.  
 Extending Work  
 Dina Karahali, 47, is waiting to see the final form of the
bill to know whether she will be penalized by the new system or
manage to escape with the early pension she expected when she
began working as a childcare worker 25 years ago.  
 With a 16-year-old son, Karahali said she could take early
retirement now on less than a full payment. What she fears is
the new law will make her work an extra 13 years.  
 “It’s difficult,” she said by telephone in Athens. “Do I
get a pension now and not receive any money until I am 50? Or,
will I have to work till I am 60?”  
 About 5,000 state workers, mostly women, have submitted
applications for early retirement this year, said Despina
Spanou, an official at the civil servants’ labor union,  ADEDY .
That’s almost double the number filed at the same time last
year, she said.  
 Concerns about Greece’s long-term pension finances have
long played a part in the wider spread in  Greek bonds  over those
of Germany or Italy, the OECD said in its July 2009 report.  
 That was before the 58-year-old Papandreou revealed the
country’s budget shortfall was more than twice the previous
government’s estimate, stoking concern about Greece’s ability to
avert default and prompting the bailout package.  
 Bonds Collapse  
 Greek 10-year government bond yields were about 1.4
percentage points, or 140 basis points, higher than benchmark
German bunds at the beginning of October as Papandreou came to
power. The so-called yield spread widened to as much as 965
points on May 7 and yesterday was at 665 points.  
 Generous Greek pensions played prominently in Germany,
where public opinion has been largely opposed to the bailout.  
 Germany lifted the retirement age to 67 from 65 in 2007,
affecting about half of the nation’s 82 million residents. While
Greece has a statutory retirement age of 65, and 60 for women,
exemptions and special rules can allow a full pension at 58.  
 Former European Central Bank Chief Economist  Otmar Issing 
said in February that German taxpayers can hardly be expected to
support Greek pensions.  Bild Zeitung , Germany’s biggest-selling
tabloid, ran a front-page headline in April asking: “Why do we
have to pay Greece’s luxury pensions?”  
 Best Years  
 Greeks get a pension calculated on the last five years of
their working life, which tend to be the highest-paid. German,
Italian and Portuguese pensions are based on wages worked over a
lifetime. Spain bases them on the best 15 years of work.  
 In the Greek civil service, the so-called replacement rate
can be as much as 149 percent, according to a report by the
European Commission in October. The rate is a measure of how
effectively a pension system provides income during retirement.  
 The EU-IMF agreement states that Greece should move to a
system basing earnings on the entire lifetime and introduce a
price-based indexation system, used by most OECD countries. Such
a system, according to the Paris-based  OECD , would allow
Greece’s biggest retirement fund to scale back spending by some
20 percent by 2050 to 2055, equal to about 1 percent of GDP.  
 Governments since the end of the military junta in 1974
have struggled to force through reforms the EU has long demanded
to the pension system or opening up product and labor markets to
make Greece more competitive.  
 ‘Dramatic Worsening’  
 “The reasons for the dramatic worsening of the pension
systems finances are demographic developments, the exhaustion of
the abilities of the pay-as-you-go system and decisions of the
political system of our country for the past 35 years,” Labor
Minister  Andreas Loverdos  told the  International Labor
Organization  in a June 14 speech.  
 Civil servants didn’t pay anything towards their pensions
until 1992. Female civil servants with children under 18 can get
early retirement. Unmarried daughters of state workers say the
payment became a factor in staying single.  
 Unions argue  that going after employers who don’t pay
mandatory contributions to pension funds is preferable to
cutting benefits and raising the retirement age.  
 Non-payment of contributions to state pension funds,
prevalent among the self-employed, is estimated by the OECD at
between 20 percent and 30 percent of revenue collected.  
 Constantinidou is one such worker. She never managed to
secure a permanent post and doesn’t get state benefits in her
job supplementing the studies of high-school students at a
central Athens college.  
 “I work in the private sector and would need to work till
I’m 65 to get a pension but it’s not going to happen,” she
said. “No-one is going to hire a 60- or 65-year-old woman.
Thankfully I have this.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Unwed daughters in Greece in pension overhaul  
                       
                         
                           Denis Doyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Greece's prime minister George Papandreou. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Greece's prime minister George Papandreou. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
