-- Guatemala Says No Evidence of Pollution Found at Goldcorp's Marlin Mine
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-06-17T20:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/guatemala-says-no-evidence-of-pollution-found-at-goldcorp-s-marlin-mine.html

          
          
             Guatemala’s vice president said
government studies haven’t found evidence to substantiate
alleged environmental damage and human-rights violations at
Goldcorp Inc.’s Marlin mine.  
 Further investigation is needed and the government is
seeking funding for a two-year probe by U.S. researchers,  Rafael Espada  said in Washington.  
 “We will not allow any damage to our people, but at the
same time, we have to respect industry and investments,” Espada
said. “We want to give investors proof, and show evidence if
there’s contamination.”  
 Marlin is among mines in Guatemala established without full
consultation of indigenous Maya residents, said Rural Unity
Committee, a rights group. The Maya allege Marlin put metals in
water supplies, damaging the health of local people, according
to a University of Michigan study. The  Inter-American Commission
on Human Rights , an arm of the Organization of American States,
has given Guatemala until June 24 to close Vancouver-based
Goldcorp’s mine while the claims are investigated.  
 The IACHR’s demand is “based on environmental allegations
that are entirely without merit,” Goldcorp said in a June 9
statement. Company spokesman  Jeff Wilhoit  declined to comment
further.  
 Guatemala won’t suspend Marlin unless the OAS orders it to,
Espada said in the June 14 telephone interview. IACHR
representatives have been invited to the country to clarify
their position, he said.  
 “Depending on what the conclusion is, then we will respect
whatever the OAS says,” he said.  
 Goldcorp Shares  
 Goldcorp rose C$1.01 or 2.2 percent, to C$46.15 at 4:15
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading.  
 Goldcorp has spent $12.6 billion on six acquisitions in the
past 10 years to create the world’s second-largest gold producer
ranked by market capitalization. Its shares have advanced 12
percent this year in Toronto, valuing the company at C$33.9
billion ($33 billion).  Toronto-based Barrick Gold Corp. , the
world’s biggest gold producer, rose 4 percent to C$46.10. Gold
for immediate delivery in London traded at a record $1,252.11 an
ounce on June 8.  
 Goldcorp acquired Marlin when it paid $7.6 billion for
Canada’s Glamis Gold Ltd. in 2006. The mine, located in western
Guatemala, produced 274,900 ounces of gold last year, or 11
percent of Goldcorp’s total output.  
 Independent Assessment  
 In 2008, the company agreed to an independent assessment of
the mine’s impact on human rights, the first such report
commissioned by a resource company to be released to the public,
according to  Robert Walker , vice president of sustainability for
Northwest & Ethical Investments LP in Toronto. The report was
published last month and recommended the company halt
exploration and expansion at Marlin until consultations are held
with local communities.  
 The Goldcorp unit that owns and operates Marlin “has
mainly been in a reactive and defensive mode” when dealing with
complaints that affect human rights, the  report  said. The unit’s
“reliance on national legal frameworks has not provided an
adequate foundation upon which to respect human rights,
particularly in the areas of indigenous peoples rights.”  
 The United Nations said its Special Envoy James Anaya
arrived in Guatemala on June 14 to analyze allegations that
indigenous Maya weren’t consulted before the mine started
operations.  
 Toxic Metals  
 University of Michigan researchers found “elevated”
levels of toxic metals in rivers near the mine and among
indigenous local residents. Their  study , which was released last
month, called for the creation of a panel to oversee a more
“rigorous” investigation.  
 Studies by the health, environment and energy ministries
found no contamination, Espada said. The work by U.S. scientists
and Guatemalan authorities is “very preliminary,” he said.  
 Still, Guatemala’s  Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources  recommended in a May 27 memo that the IACHR’s request
for the mine’s suspension should be obeyed, and it called on
prosecutors to take legal action.  
 Should Guatemala fail to comply with the IACHR’s demands,
the commission may ask an affiliated organization, the San Jose,
Costa Rica-based  Inter-American Court of Human Rights,  to order
the temporary closure of Marlin, IACHR spokeswoman Maria-Isabel
Rivero said in a June 14 interview from Washington.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        