-- Icahn Extends Lions Gate Takeover Bid After Securing 32% of Studio's Stock
-- Ronald Grover
-- 2010-06-17T20:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/icahn-extends-lions-gate-takeover-bid-after-securing-32-of-studio-s-stock.html

          
          
             Investor  Carl Icahn  said he will
give  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.  investors two more weeks to
tender their shares after he secured 32 percent of the company’s
stock with his $7-a-share hostile offer.  
 Shareholders representing 13 percent of Lions Gate stock
accepted Icahn’s offer as of the original June 16 deadline, the
billionaire investor said in a statement today. Icahn’s holding
in the Vancouver-based film company was almost 19 percent in
March.  
 Icahn, 74, said on June 11 he planned to wage a proxy fight
for control of Lions Gate’s board. He has been battling for
control of the company since February and has been critical of
its spending and acquisitions. The company, run from Santa
Monica, California, is the distributor of the “Saw” horror
films and “Mad Men” TV series on cable.  
 Lions Gate said in a statement that more than 68 percent of
shareholders haven’t accepted Icahn’s bid, showing support for
the board and management. The company urged shareholders to
continue to reject the acquisition offer.  
 Lions Gate Chief Executive Officer  Jon Feltheimer  and
 Michael Burns , vice chairman, are among those who may share in a
$16 million severance fund if Icahn wins and replaces them
without cause. The two executives may also be able to walk away
from their contracts if there’s a change in control, defined as
occurring when an investor acquires 33 percent of the stock,
according to 2006 agreements with both men.  
 Major Backer  
 Lions Gate rose 19 cents to $7.12 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 23
percent this year.  
 Icahn, who now becomes the largest shareholder in Lions
Gate, won a major backer on June 11 when Dallas Mavericks owner
 Mark Cuban  tendered his 5.4 percent stake in the company,
according to a  regulatory filing . Other investors holding 3.7
percent of the film company’s stock also tendered, Icahn said in
a statement on June 9.  
 “We are hopeful that a newly elected board will act
expeditiously to replace management and hold the new team
accountable for performance moving forward,” Icahn wrote in an
open letter to shareholders on June 11. His 22 million shares
are worth about $157 million at today’s price.  
 The studio and Icahn held settlement talks in mid-May,
Lions Gate said in a filing. Those talks focused on giving Icahn
as many as three board seats, a person close to the discussions
said at the time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        