-- Michael Foods to Fund Leveraged Buyout in `Choppy' Market: New Issue Alert
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-06-17T09:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/michael-foods-to-fund-leveraged-buyout-in-choppy-market-new-issue-alert.html

          
          
             Michael Foods Inc. , the biggest
producer of egg products in North America, is marketing debt as
companies try to access a corporate bond market that may be
“choppy” throughout the summer.  
 Michael Foods, being acquired by a fund run by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. from private-equity firm Thomas H. Lee Partners
LP, plans to sell $430 million of eight-year notes to help fund
the $1.7 billion acquisition, according to a person familiar
with the transaction.  
 Sales of high-risk, high-yield debt have fallen by almost
two-thirds so far this month, compared with the equivalent
period in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Companies have issued $3.1 billion of junk debt so far this
month, compared with the $6 billion sold through the first 12
business days of May. Total junk sales last month were $6.8
billion, the lowest since March 2009, Bloomberg data show.  
 The absence of new issues leads to “opaqueness” in the
market,  Frank Koster , chief investment officer at Dwight Asset
Management Co., said in an interview yesterday.  
 “It’s very hard to issue into such a choppy market, and it
feels like that will persist through the summer,” said Koster,
who helps oversee $70 billion of fixed-income assets at Dwight
Asset Management in Burlington, Vermont.  
 TitleMax Holdings LLC, the company that makes consumer
loans secured by automobile titles, sold $225 million of five-
year notes yesterday, the second junk sale in the last week and
seventh so far this month.  Spectrum Brands Inc.  issued $750
million of notes on June 15 and TransUnion Corp. sold $645
million of debt on June 10.  
 High-Yield Spreads  
 High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own junk debt instead
of Treasuries fell six basis points to 697 basis points
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
High Yield Master II index. Relative yields on junk bonds have
fallen 30 basis points since reaching 727 last week, a six-month
high, index data show.  
 Michael Foods also is seeking $865 million in loans to help
pay for the acquisition by GS Capital Partners, Goldman Sachs’s
private-equity unit. The loans include a six-year, $790 million
term loan and a five-year, $75 million revolving line of credit.  
 Moody’s Investors Service graded the notes seven levels
below investment-grade at Caa1 in a June 14 report. Standard &
Poor’s assigned them a rank of B-, one step higher, yesterday.  
 Prudential, Western Union  
 Prudential Financial Inc., the second-largest U.S. life
insurer sold $1 billion of notes in a two-part offering, and
 Western Union Co.  sold $250 million of 30-year bonds to lead
$1.65 billion of sales yesterday by companies rated investment
grade, Bloomberg data show. Sales are $22.9 billion in June, up
58 percent from the comparable period last month, Bloomberg data
show.  
 Spreads on investment-grade corporate debt fell 1 basis
point to 210 basis points yesterday, the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index shows. The index is 59 basis
points above this year’s low of 151, last reached on April 23.  
 Following is a description of the $4.99 billion pending
sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  plans to sell $300 million of perpetual
securities that are callable after 5.5 years, according to a
person familiar with the offering. The securities are expected
to be rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P, the person said.  
 CHILE plans to sell $1 billion of 10-year bonds, along with
warrants and peso debt, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Chile will use the proceeds
for general purposes, the filing said. The country, which hasn’t
sold international bonds in six years, is seeking financing for
repairs after a Feb. 27 earthquake and subsequent tsunami killed
more than 400 people and caused as much as $30 billion of
damage.  
 DOHA BANK QSC , Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The money is likely to be raised for five years and is
meant to “fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance
sheet,  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone
interview from Doha. The bank has not decided which currency to
sell the bonds in, he said. The lender said in April that it
planned to sell senior notes in dollars in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said.  
 SENSIENT TECHNOLOGIES CORP.  said it entered into an
agreement with a group of four financial institutions for the
issuance of $110 million in fixed-rate, senior notes, according
to a Nov. 19 statement distributed by Business Wire. The company
plans to issue seven-year debt to repay existing indebtedness,
Sensient said in a March 1 regulatory filing.  
 High Yield  
 AKBANK TAS , the Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
plans to sell five-year, dollar-denominated eurobonds worth up
to $1 billion, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock
Exchange.  
 CEDAR FAIR ENTERTAINMENT CO. , the operator of amusement
parks that called off a takeover by an Apollo Management LP
affiliate, said it plans to sell $500 million of senior
unsecured notes due in 2020. Proceeds will be used to repay
existing debt, the Sandusky, Ohio-based company said in a May 20
statement distributed by PR Newswire.  
 WILLBROS GROUP INC.  plans to sell $250 million of six-year
notes and seek a $50 million term loan to help pay for its
acquisition of InfrastruX Group Inc., according to a company
statement distributed by Marketwire. Willbros will also use 7.9
million shares of its stock and cash on hand to pay for the
acquisition, it said in the statement. Moody’s rates the notes
B3 and S&P ranks them B+.  
 IRSA INVERSIONES Y REPRESENTACIONES SA , Argentina’s biggest
real-estate company, extended an offer to sell $250 million in
10-year bonds until June 24, the company said in a regulatory
filing in Buenos Aires on June 14. S&P assigned the notes a
grade of B-, six steps below investment quality.  
 CAPELLA HEALTHCARE INC., the hospital operator backed by
private-equity firm GTCR Golder Rauner LLC, Capella plans to
sell $500 million of seven-year notes, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. Proceeds will be used to
refinance Capella’s existing first-lien credit facilities and
second-lien term loan, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
report.  
 TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC. , the maker of tire and wheel
systems for off-highway equipment, said it plans to sell at
least $150 million of senior unsecured notes. Proceeds will be
used to repurchase the 8 percent senior unsecured notes due in
2012 and for general corporate purposes, the Quincy, Illinois-
based company said in a May 13 statement distributed by Business
Wire.  
 INVENTIV HEALTH INC. , the provider of sales and marketing
services to science companies that is being acquired by Thomas
H. Lee Partners, may sell $275 million of senior notes to back
the purchase, it said in a regulatory filing.  
 CITGO PETROLEUM CORP., a U.S.-based unit of Petroleos de
Venezuela SA, plans to sell $1.5 billion of secured notes due in
2017 and 2020, according to a person familiar with the offering.
S&P assigned the notes a grade of BB+, one step below
investment-grade quality.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from its first Shariah-compliant dollar bond in eight
years on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 INDOSAT PALAPA CO. , a unit of Indonesia’s second-largest
phone operator, delayed a planned dollar bond sale until market
conditions improve, a person familiar with the matter said May
26. Indosat began meetings with investors in Asia, the U.S. and
Europe on May 12 to gauge demand for a global bond sale,
according to a company statement sent to the Indonesian stock
exchange that day. Moody’s assigned a provisional Ba1 rating to
the notes and S&P rated them BB, one step lower.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp., will
sell bonds when market conditions and rates are favorable, its
vice president for corporate finance  Mutlaq al-Morished  told al-
Arabiya television in Dubai on June 16. Sabic delayed a bond
sale because of unfavorable spreads, al-Morished said in a May
26 telephone interview. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
to manage a benchmark-sized offering.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond next
year to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production
boosts economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy
Finance Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering
a “no-deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds this
year. The southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated
at B+ by S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade.
Moody’s assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 KAZAKHSTAN plans to sell between $500 million and $750
million in bonds to investors abroad in the autumn, Kazakh
Finance Minister  Bolat Zhamishev  said in a May 14 interview. The
bonds will probably be denominated in dollars and will be used
to set a benchmark for corporate borrowing, Zhamishev said.  
 QATARI DIAR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT CO. may raise about $1.5
billion by selling global bonds backed by Qatar, according to a
person familiar with the sale plan. The developer may offer 10-
year conventional bonds and 5-year Islamic securities, said the
person who declined to be identified because details of the
transaction haven’t been completed. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Barclays Capital are among banks expected to manage the sale,
according to the person.  
 CREDIT EUROPE BANK LTD.  plans to sell three-year bonds in
dollars, according to people with knowledge of the sale. The
notes may be priced to yield 7.75 percent to 8 percent, the
people said. Citigroup Inc. is managing the sale.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 OAO SBERBANK  , Russia’s biggest lender, may sell $1 billion
of dollar-denominated bonds for the first time in two years when
debt markets improve, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Anton
Karamzin said. Sberbank will consider selling $1 billion of
“five-year senior unsecured” notes to establish a benchmark
“if the price is right,” Karamzin said. Sberbank hired DZ Bank
AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
organize meetings with bond investors, a banker involved in the
transaction said April 29.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 KOREA FINANCE CORP.  hired BNP Paribas SA and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell dollar bonds backed by Korean
residential mortgages, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The banks will help arrange meetings with investors
in Asia, Europe and the U.S., the person said. Edaily reported
in April that the company planned to sell $100 million to $200
million of foreign-currency bonds in its first overseas debt
sale since October, without citing anyone. The state-run agency
also plans to sell $1 billion of global bonds in the U.S., the
Korean-language online newspaper said.  
 NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION of South
Korea, known as Nonghyup, hired five banks to help it sell U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter. Citigroup Inc., Credit Agricole CIB, ING Groep
NV,  Morgan Stanley  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc will
help the company with the benchmark offering, the people said.
The federation, which provides credit and banking services to
farmers, is considering a maturity of 5 1/2 years, according to
one of the people. Moody’s Investors Service rates Nonghyup A1.  
 PTT PRODUCTION & EXPLORATION PCL , the Thai oil explorer,
hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to help it sell global bonds, according to two people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified as the
plan is private.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt through next year, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The
company manages the finances of state utility National Power
Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. later this year as it
pursues new markets to help refinance debt and pay for a new
runway. The company is considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private
placement and a five- to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale
in late 2010 or early 2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell 
said in a phone interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas this year to fund mining and
energy projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars
this year, the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its
Web site.  
 POLAND may delay selling dollar-denominated bonds until
July or the autumn, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill 
was quoted as saying by PAP newswire. Poland may sell bonds in
euros as early as the autumn to prefinance its 2011 borrowing
needs, Radziwill was quoted as saying.  
 MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds this
year and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be
sold according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales this year
after Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment
banks are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5
to 10 years, Bayartsogt said in a Feb. 9 interview. The
securities may yield between 8 percent to 11 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        