-- Phil Mickelson Falters Early With Bogeys in Quest for 1st U.S. Open Title
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-17T21:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/mickelson-falters-early-with-bogeys-in-quest-for-his-first-u-s-open-title.html

          
          
             Phil Mickelson’s  quest for his first
 U.S. Open  title got off to a wet start.  
 With the chance this weekend to follow up on his win at the
 Masters Tournament  in April and surpass  Tiger Woods  as the
world’s No. 1 golfer, Mickelson shot a 4-over par 75 in the
first round at  Pebble Beach Golf Links  today and is five shots
off the early lead.  
 K.J. Choi ,  Mike Weir ,  Ian Poulter  and Rafael Cabrera-Bello
shot 1-under 70 to share the lead among players who have
competed their rounds.  
 Mickelson, a five-time U.S. Open runner-up, began play on
the oceanside course’s 10th hole and faltered early with three
straight bogeys on Nos. 16, 17 and 18 -- where he launched his
second shot from the first cut of rough on the right side of the
fairway into the Pacific Ocean on the left. He also missed
birdie putts from about five feet on the 14th and 15th holes.  
 “I just couldn’t make any birdies,” Mickelson, 40, said
in a televised interview.  
 The reigning Masters champion is the 15-2 favorite to take
his fifth major title by U.K. bookmaker William Hill Plc;  Tiger Woods , a three-time U.S. Open winner, is second choice at 8-1.
Mickelson finished tied for 16th the last time the U.S. Open was
played at Pebble Beach in 2000. Woods won that year by a record
15 shots.  
 This was Mickelson’s highest opening score at the U.S. Open
since 1997 at Congressional Country Club in Maryland, and the
first time he has failed to make at least one birdie since the
first round in 2007 at Oakmont Country Club in Pennsylvania.  
 ‘Number of Opportunities’  
 “I don’t feel like I’m very off with the ball striking,”
the left-hander said. “I gave myself a number of opportunities,
but I’ve got to get the ball in the hole.”  
 Mickelson began today’s round with six straight pars. He
came within inches of a birdie on the par-4 13th hole with a
curling putt from about 50 feet before his trouble began on the
par-4 16th.  
 When his iron shot from the tee trickled onto a grassy
downslope on the edge of a fairway bunker, Mickelson was unable
to advance his ball toward the green. After chipping out to the
fairway, he left with his first bogey.  
 He then missed the par-3 17th green to the left and was
forced to take a penalty drop, producing his second bogey.  
 On the 18th, his second shot from about 250 yards bounced
high off the cement seawall and landed about 50 feet into
Stillwater Cove.  
 ‘Come on, Phil’  
 A fan favorite, especially in his native state of
California, Mickelson was cheered on with shouts of “Come on,
Phil” as he made the long walk through the shops and putting-
green area of the California resort en route to the first tee.  
 From there, the day began to improve slightly for
Mickelson. However, he was still unable to make key putts.  
 After a bogey on the par-4 fourth hole, he failed to
convert another birdie putt from inside five feet on the sixth.
The ball didn’t touch the hole as it rolled about three feet
past.  
 Mickelson finished the round facing a birdie putt from
about 20 feet. As it rolled toward the center of the ninth hole,
it stopped about an inch short, producing another par.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Pebble Beach, California, at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        