-- Higuain Hits First World Cup Hat Trick as Argentina Beats South Korea 4-1
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-06-17T14:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/higuain-hits-first-world-cup-hat-trick-as-argentina-beats-south-korea-4-1.html

          
          
             Gonzalo Higuain  scored three goals
as Argentina beat South Korea 4-1 for its second straight World
Cup win in Group B.  
 Higuain scored twice in four minutes to finish off the
victory at Soccer City stadium in Johannesburg, South Africa,
following his first-half score. An own goal by Park Chu Young
had put Argentina ahead 1-0. Lee Chung Yong pulled a goal back
on the stroke of halftime.  
 Argentina, which struggled in qualifying under its coach
 Diego Maradona,  who played in its 1986 World Cup-winning team,
has a perfect record after two of three first-phase group games.
It had already downed Nigeria 1-0.  
 “This is an important victory, and it allows us to be
basically qualified with one game left to play,” Higuain told
reporters. “Look at the goals today, the team played a great
match.”  
 Argentina led when a free kick bounced off Park’s shin into
his own goal. Higuain made it 2-0 when he headed a cross down
onto the turf and it bounced over Jung Sung Ryong as the
goalkeeper dived to reach the ball.  
 Although Argentina was dominating, South Korea pulled a
goal back just before halftime when defender  Martin Demichelis 
failed to bring the ball under control on the edge of the
penalty box. Lee darted in and drove a shot past goalkeeper
Sergio Romero.  
 Missed Chance  
 Yeom Ki Hun had a chance to level the scores after 55
minutes but shot into the side-netting, a miss that South Korea
coach Huh Jung Moo said was the “turning point.”  
 Higuain wrapped up the scoring, heading in a chip by  Sergio Aguero  with about 10 minutes of play left, four minutes after
finishing off a move by  Lionel Messi .  
 “Our players fought hard, but we didn’t manage to control
the flow of the game and that was the decisive factor,” Huh
told reporters. “The score was unexpectedly high, but there’s
always a possibility we will reach the round of 16 and so
everything depends on the last game,” against Nigeria on June
22.  
 Higuain said his team still mustn’t let its hopes get too
high.  
 “The goal against us put some pressure on us but we knew
we’d get more chances to score. We’re happy with this match but
we’re not overly euphoric,” he added.  
 Argentina and Spain, which lost 1-0 against Switzerland
yesterday, were the 5-1 second favorites to win the World Cup
earlier today with bookmaker Ladbrokes Plc, which rated five-
time champion Brazil as the 4-1 favorite.  
 Also today, Greece plays Nigeria in Bloemfontein in the
other Group B game. France meets Mexico at Polokwane in Group A.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Gonzalo Higuain of Argentina celebrates scoring his second goal during the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa Group B match between Argentina and South Korea. Photographer: Clive Mason/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
