-- Illinois Debt Default Insurance Increases to Record Amid Deficit Impasse
-- Allison Bennett
-- 2010-06-17T22:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/illinois-debt-default-insurance-climbs-to-record-amid-14-billion-deficit.html

          
          
             The cost of insuring  Illinois  bonds
against default rose to a record high as state lawmakers
confront a $13 billion budget gap for the year starting July 1.  
 The price of a five-year credit-default swap to insure
Illinois obligations rose 7 basis points to 309.1 basis points
today, or $309,100 to protect $10 million of debt, from 302.2
basis points yesterday in New York, according to CMA DataVision,
a data provider owned by CME Group Inc. The gain makes insuring
bonds from the fifth-most populous state more expensive than
covering debt from any other municipal issuer.  
 “If the spread is the widest, it says the problem is
bigger than it’s ever been before,” said  Peter Hayes , who
oversees $106 billion of municipal bonds for New York-based
BlackRock Inc. “It’s a reaction to the inability to pass a
budget. We’ve seen a greater unwillingness from Illinois and the
market is reacting to that.”  
 Legislators in Illinois passed a provisional $25.9 billion
fiscal 2011 spending plan that’s about $13 billion short, and
are resisting Governor  Pat Quinn ’s proposed $3.7 billion debt
sale to make a pension payment and help close the gap. Lawmakers
recessed last month without providing a way to cover the pension
obligation and pay $4.5 billion in other bills.  
 Credit-swap costs for Illinois debt surpassed  California ’s,
the largest U.S. municipal borrower, which saw its default-
insurance contracts rise to 299.6 basis points from 298.7 basis
points yesterday. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Lowest Moody’s Ratings  
 Standard & Poor’s rates Illinois A+, two levels higher than
California. Moody’s Investors Service values both at A1, the
fifth-highest. The two states are the lowest-rated by Moody’s.  
 Illinois sold $300 million in taxable Build America Bonds
to Citigroup Inc. today through a competitive offering. Debt
maturing in 2035 priced to yield 7.1 percent, 297 basis points
over the comparable-maturity Treasury. That is higher than the
state’s $700 million negotiated Build America issue in April,
when the 25-year debt priced 205 basis points above the
benchmark government debt.  
 In a $300 million competitive offering in April, the debt
yielded 210 basis points above Treasuries.  
 Moody’s and Fitch Ratings downgraded Illinois this month,
citing the lack of political will to deal with budget issues.  
 “You can’t short regular cash municipal bonds, so the CDS
market is the way” to bet against the securities, said
BlackRock’s Hayes.  
 Alex Samuelson , a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
declined to comment.  Kelly Kraft , a spokeswoman for Quinn,
wasn’t immediately reachable for comment about the Build America
sale.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        