-- Times Square Suspect Shahzad Indicted in Bomb Attempt
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-06-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/times-square-suspect-shahzad-is-indicted-by-u-s-in-failed-car-detonation.html

          
          
             Faisal Shahzad , accused in the
attempted May 1 car-bombing of New York’s Times Square, was
indicted on 10 terrorism-related charges by a federal grand
jury, Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  said.  
 Shahzad, 30, was charged with attempted use of a weapon of
mass destruction in yesterday’s indictment, which disclosed new
details about the failed plot. He has been held without bail
since appearing before a federal magistrate on May 18, when he
was assigned a lawyer.  
 In the indictment, prosecutors added five new charges to
their case against Shahzad, including conspiracy counts and an
attempted terrorist act transcending national borders. He was
also charged with criminal possession of a 9 mm Kel-Tec rifle,
which was found loaded in his car the day of his arrest.  
 “The facts alleged in this indictment show that the
Pakistani Taliban facilitated Faisal Shahzad’s attempted attack
on American soil,” U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said
yesterday in a statement. “Our nation averted serious loss of
life in this attempted bombing, but it is a reminder that we
face an evolving threat that we must continue to fight with
every tool available to the government.”  
 Holder previously said that Shahzad admitted his role in
the bombing attempt and cooperated with authorities after his
arrest.  
 Shahzad faces as long as life in prison if convicted of the
most serious charges against him, prosecutors said.  
 Tehrik-e-Taliban  
 The government disclosed new details to its case against
Shahzad, including allegations he conspired with “others known
and unknown” and received instruction from explosives trainers
affiliated with Tehrik-e-Taliban, described by prosecutors as a
militant extremist group based in the Waziristan region of
Pakistan.  
 Shahzad received financing to carry out the attack,
including about $5,000 on Feb. 25 from an unidentified co-
conspirator in Massachusetts who Shahzad “understood worked for
Tehrik-e-Taliban,” prosecutors said in court papers.  
 Shahzad received about $7,000 on April 10 in Ronkonkoma on
Long Island east of New York City, according to the indictment.
That money was sent at the unidentified co-conspirator’s
direction, prosecutors said. Shahzad bought a prepaid cellular
telephone on April 16 and a Nissan Pathfinder on April 24.  
 Improvised Bomb  
 Prosecutors said in a May 4 criminal complaint that Shahzad
drove the Pathfinder carrying an improvised bomb made of
firecrackers, propane tanks and gasoline canisters into the
crowded Manhattan crossroads. The vehicle was found abandoned
and smoking on the street as the items in the back smoldered,
the U.S. said in court papers.  
 The indictment “charges Faisal Shahzad with conspiring
with the Pakistani Taliban to wreak death and destruction in
Times Square,” Bharara said in yesterday’s statement. “This
office will continue to work in lock-step with our partners at
the FBI and the NYPD to protect New York City from the threat
posed by terrorists and those who would support them.”  
 Shahzad is scheduled to appear in court on June 21 to be
arraigned before U.S. District Judge  Miriam Cedarbaum  in
Manhattan, prosecutors said in the statement.  
 Julia Gatto, a lawyer for Shahzad, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment yesterday.  
 Shahzad was arrested at about 11 p.m. on May 3 at New
York’s  John F. Kennedy International Airport  after boarding a
flight to Dubai.  
 Shahzad’s Admission  
 At the May 18 court hearing, U.S. Magistrate Judge  James Francis  ordered Shahzad held without bail, as requested by
Assistant U.S. Attorney Randall Jackson and consented to by
Gatto. Shahzad didn’t enter a plea at the hearing.  
 Federal agents probing the attempted car bombing arrested
three people on May 13 on immigration charges in a series of
raids in the northeastern U.S., law enforcement officials said.
No one else has been publicly charged in the plot by U.S.
authorities.  
 The searches were “the product of evidence that has been
gathered in the investigation since the attempted Times Square
bombing” and didn’t relate to any known new threat, federal
authorities said.  
 A Pakistan-born naturalized U.S. citizen, Shahzad was
funded and directed by the Taliban group based in Pakistan,
Holder said in a May 9 interview. Authorities said the plot
dated back to December.  
 Shahzad, who lived in Bridgeport, Connecticut, told
authorities he “recently” received bomb-making instructions in
Waziristan, the U.S. said in court papers. He also told
officials he tried to detonate the improvised bomb in the
Pathfinder and tried to flee the U.S. after the failed attack,
prosecutors said.  
 The case is U.S. v. Shahzad, 10-00928, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in federal court in New York at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An image of terrorism suspect Faisal Shahzad is seen on a TV screen as U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano, Deputy Director of the FBI John S. Pistole and New York Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly hold a news conference regarding the investigation into the Times Square attempted bombing, in Washington. Photographer: Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
