-- Limits on `Inappropriately High' Banking Bonuses Go to Parliamentary Vote
-- Patrick Donahue
-- 2010-06-17T11:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/limits-on-inappropriately-high-banking-bonuses-go-to-parliamentary-vote.html

          
          
             German lawmakers will vote today on
a draft law allowing regulators to block or limit
“inappropriately high” bonus payments to bank executives as
part of efforts to stem bankers’ appetite for risk.  
 The government-backed bill, which also applies to insurance
companies, aligns Germany with guidelines agreed upon by the
Group of 20 nations to root out the causes of the financial
crisis. The legislation, which was approved by Chancellor Angela
Merkel’s Cabinet in February, is scheduled to be voted on at
about 9:30 p.m. in the lower house in Berlin, where Merkel has a
majority.  
 “A disproportionate and failed remuneration policy
endangers not only the reliability of individual businesses, but
also has a negative effect generally on financial-market
stability,” two lawmakers from Merkel’s Christian Democratic
bloc,  Leo Dautzenberg  and Ralph Brinkhaus, said in a statement
today. “We’re working against this.”  
 The legislation builds on a plan outlined by Deutsche Bank
AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  in which Germany’s
eight largest banks and three top insurers, including  Deutsche 
Bank, agreed to restrain pay. The accord drew on recommendations
by the Basel, Switzerland-based Financial Stability Board.  
 The proposed law will allow Germany’s Bafin financial
regulator to block variable bonus payments to employees or tie
them to a company’s net income if a payment doesn’t adhere to
regulatory requirements,  according to a draft . Rules on bonus
pay are to be laid out later by the Finance Ministry.  
 G-20 leaders agreed last September in Pittsburgh to adopt
guidelines on pay practices at banks and other financial
companies, aiming to curb risks by aligning rewards with long-
term success.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        