-- Impact Sells $235 Million of Securities Supported by Multifamily Mortgages
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-06-17T19:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/impact-sells-235-million-of-securities-supported-by-multifamily-mortgages.html

          
          
             Impact Community Capital LLC , the
company set up by a group of insurers that provides financing
for affordable housing and community facilities, sold $235
million of securities backed by loans on multifamily properties,
according to people familiar with the transaction.  
 That senior-most portion of the deal, with a projected
average life of 8.8 years, yields 5.356 percent, or 225 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate, according to the
people, who declined to be identified because the offering was
private. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Impact, which focuses on California properties, is owned by
insurers including Allstate Corp., Pacific Life Insurance Co.,
and TIAA-CREF, according to its  website . The $302 million of
loans backing today’s deal, originally extended by the
California Community Reinvestment Corp. and Bank of America
Corp., were previously held by San Francisco-based Impact in a
separate debt pool, according to a June 16 Standard & Poor’s
statement.  
 The AAA credit ratings that S&P planned to assign to the
two senior-most slices of today’s deal are “based on our
opinion of the very strong support provided by the subordinate
classes of certificates,” Karen Fitzgerald, an analyst, said in
the statement, referring to more-junior portions that would
absorb first losses.  
 Barclays Plc underwrote the deal, the third sale this year
of U.S. commercial mortgage securities without government-backed
guarantees, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Junior Slices  
 An affiliate of Impact that sponsored the transaction was
expected to retain some of the deal’s $33.9 million portion
ranked second class and all of the more-junior slices, according
to New York-based S&P.  
 Impact ended up keeping all of the A-2 class and some of
its insurer owners bought part of the A-1 class, the people
said. The company began assembling loans for the securitization
in 2003 and is unlikely to do another before late next year,
they said.  
 A message left before the sale for Jean Chang, a senior
vice president at Impact, wasn’t immediately returned.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        