-- Indonesia's Stock Valuations to Rise to Three-Year High, First State Says
-- Berni Moestafa
-- 2010-06-17T03:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/indonesia-s-stock-valuations-to-rise-to-three-year-high-first-state-says.html

          
          
             Indonesia’s equities are set to
climb to their most expensive levels in three years as faster
economic growth boosts corporate earnings, according to  PT First
State Investments Indonesia .  
 The  Jakarta Composite index  may rise to 17 times estimated
earnings by the end of 2010 from 14.7 currently, said Laurentia
Amica Darmawan, an analyst at First State, a unit of
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  that manages Indonesia’s fourth-
biggest equity fund. That would be the gauge’s highest price-
earnings ratio since December 2007, and the most among current
valuations in Asia after Japan, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “If people switch their mindset from Europe to Asia
there’s a potential for a rerating” of Indonesian stocks,
Darmawan said in an interview yesterday. “We’re overweight on
the consumer sector.”  
 The benchmark gauge has risen 13 percent this year, the
best performer among major markets in Asia as Bank Indonesia
forecasts economic growth will accelerate to 5.6 percent from
4.5 percent last year. Gains were pared by a 5.9 percent decline
in May on concern the European debt crisis will dent global
growth, hurting demand for Indonesian exports.  
 The index may surpass its April 30 record of 2,971.25 in
October after companies release their third-quarter earnings,
Darmawan said. The measure advanced 0.3 percent to 2,867.03 as
of 10:04 a.m. in Jakarta, a six-week high.  
 Large Population  
 Indonesia has a “good” outlook due to its resources and
large population, putting the nation in a favorable position to
attract investment, Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s Chairman
 Mark Mobius  wrote on his  blog  on June 3. The country’s 248
million population is the world’s fourth largest, after China,
India and the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Even so, radicalism is a concern if not kept under control,
Mobius said. “If the government is unable to discourage radical
forms of Islam, there may be considerable risks to the political
and economic aspects of the country.”  
 Indonesia, a secular, democratic republic with the world’s
largest Muslim population, has increased anti-terror operations
since the July 2009 bombings at Jakarta’s  JW Marriott  and  Ritz-
Carlton  hotels that killed nine people, including the two
suicide bombers. They were the first terrorist attacks by
Islamist militants in Indonesia in almost four years.  
 Foreign investors are returning to Indonesia, buying a net
$621.4 million of the nation’s stocks so far this year, a 17
percent increase from the same period a year earlier, according
to dollar-denominated data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Record-Low Rates  
 Stocks also rose this year as benign inflation helped the
central bank keep its benchmark interest rate at a record low of
6.5 percent for a 10th month in June to spur investment and
spending. Domestic consumption accounts for about two-thirds of
the Indonesian economy. The nation’s consumer price index rose
by a lower-than-expected 4.16 percent last month.  
 PT Astra International , Indonesia’s biggest automotive
retailer, jumped 33 percent this year after posting a record
profit in 2009 and saying in May motorcycle sales may climb to a
record of more than 6.5 million units this year.  
 First State’s Darmawan recommended  PT Indofood Sukses
Makmur , Indonesia’s biggest instant noodle maker, saying the
stock’s valuation is attractive compared with consumer peers
such as cigarette producer  PT Gudang Garam  and PT Unilever
Indonesia. Among commodity stocks, she prefers  PT Adaro Energy ,
the ation’s second-largest coal producer, citing rising output.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        