-- Mining Takeover Activity Plunges in Australia Following Rudd Tax Proposal
-- Rebecca Keenan
-- 2010-06-18T17:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/mining-takeovers-plunge-in-australia-after-rudd-s-super-profit-tax-plan.html

          
          
             Mining takeovers in Australia, the
biggest shipper of iron ore and coal, are set to fall to a five-
year low after government plans to increase tax on the industry
kicked up a hail of protest from the world’s biggest producers.  
 The number of transactions has slumped to 47 this quarter,
valued at a total of $914 million, compared with 89 deals worth
$9.11 billion a year ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The figure suggests the smallest number of deals
since the first quarter of 2006 and the lowest value since the
fourth quarter of 2005.  
 “We are certainly seeing a pullback in mining
transactions,” said  Tim Goldsmith , PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s
Melbourne-based global mining leader. “What the announcement of
the super tax has done is provide uncertainty and while
companies are uncertain they tend not to transact.”  
 The decline in takeovers supports predictions by  Citigroup
Inc.  and  Xstrata Plc , which joined with  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and
 Rio Tinto Group  in campaigning against the 40 percent tax on
mining profits. The planned levy has stalled investment and
slashed support in public opinion polls for Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who must hold an election within 10 months.  
 Rudd wants to start the tax from 2012, raising an estimated
A$12 billion ($10 billion) in the first two years. The levy
would give Australia the world’s highest tax rate for mining
companies, according to the Minerals Council of Australia.  
 Shares Gain  
 BHP  rose 1 percent to 1,940 pence in London trading after
gaining 0.8 percent in Sydney.  Rio  advanced 0.2 percent to 3,325
pence after adding 1.1 percent in Australia.  Xstrata  climbed 1.6
percent to 1,027 pence in London.  
 Peabody Energy Corp. , the biggest U.S. coal company, last
month cut its takeover offer for Macarthur Coal Ltd. by 6.3
percent to A$3.8 billion, citing the tax proposals.  Macarthur 
rejected the bid and Peabody, which has slowed work on five
expansion projects in Australia, said it will look elsewhere for
investments.  
 “It’s hard to outline a corporate strategy and potential
targets if you are a potential acquirer if there are two end
numbers for the valuation -- one is with the tax and one is
without the tax,”  Alex Passmore , the head of metals and mining
at Patersons Securities Ltd., said by phone from Perth. “It
makes good sense that the activity has slowed down.”  
 The value of mining takeovers declined 85 percent from the
first quarter to the second quarter. On May 25, Australia’s
benchmark index for  miners  hit its lowest level since July 2009.  
 Lazard, Goldman  
 The decline in takeovers also tracked a drop in global
mergers and acquisitions. The total value fell to $509.1 billion
in the first quarter from $532 billion in the final three months
of 2009, which was the worst year for takeovers since 2003, as
the Greek fiscal crisis rattled financial markets.  
 Across all industries there have been 181 transactions
announced in Australia worth $13.1 billion this quarter to date,
compared with 266 deals worth $18.8 billion a year ago.  
 The top advisers for announced Australian deals this
quarter are Lazard LLC, Goldman Sachs JBWere Pty Ltd., UBS AG
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. A year ago, the top advisers were
Goldman Sachs, Macquarie Group Ltd., Lazard and Morgan Stanley.  
 Australia is the second-biggest producer of nickel and
alumina, and the third-biggest producer of manganese and zinc,
according to data compiled by UBS AG.  
 Industry Growth  
 The government says its proposals will eventually spur
investment by taxing profit rather than production. “It’s the
best thing to expand the industry long-term,” Rudd told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “7:30 Report” yesterday.  
 Trade Minister  Simon Crean  said last month the tax would
result in a 6 percent to 7 percent increase in mining investment
in Australia, based on economic models used by the government.  
 Australia risks losing its relevance as a market for
investment in global mining companies, according to Citigroup.  
 “Given the opportunities for global investors to look at
non-Australian assets, we believe that the implementation of
resource super profit tax could drive foreign interest in miners
from Australia into other regions,” Sydney-based Citigroup
analyst  Craig Sainsbury  wrote in June 17 report. There may be
consolidation between producers within Australia, he wrote.  
 Mining companies’ earnings may be cut by almost a third
when the tax starts in 2012, Moody’s Investors Service said last
month. The tax would be broadly credit negative for the sector
and raise uncertainty for some companies over the short-to-
medium term, Moody’s said this month.  
 “It’s a sovereign risk issue and that reflects poorly on
Australia as an investment location,” Passmore said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        