-- Intel's Martz Bucks Bosses to Turn TVs Into Computer Monitors
-- Ian King
-- 2010-06-17T17:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/intel-s-martz-bucks-bosses-to-turn-tvs-into-computer-monitors.html

          
          
             Imagine sitting on your couch with a
notebook PC on your lap, chuckling at a Saturday Night Live clip
on NBC.com. You hit a button and a crisp, high-definition
version of the sketch plays on the TV across the room.  
 Gary Martz, a senior product manager in Intel Corp.’s
wireless products unit, championed that idea, though Intel’s top
brass tried to deep-six the concept. Then major PC makers and
retailers lined up behind it. Today, Intel executives say they
have come up with the next must-have feature in personal
computing, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its June 21 issue.  
 Wireless Display, or Wi-Di, uses the Wi-Fi technology that
connects computers to the Internet without a cord. Martz’s team
repurposed radio chips and antennas to send and receive data
simultaneously and transmit whatever a computer is displaying to
a receiver plugged into the back of a TV. He also needed to
change the attitude of his bosses.  
 “They literally laughed me out of the room,” said Martz,
38, an industrial engineer with an MBA from the University of
Michigan. Martz considered such obstacles surmountable and bet
consumers would embrace Wi-Di if it were easy to use.  
 Dell Inc., Toshiba Corp., and Sony Corp. now offer the
feature on some of their laptops, which come with a free TV
adapter made by Netgear Inc.  
 Intel almost killed off Wi-Di because engineers weren’t
confident that a Wi-Fi radio, already busy transmitting and
receiving data, would also deliver high-quality video. They were
concerned it would require extra chips, which would make the
computers more expensive and less attractive to consumers.  
 Household Interference  
 Wi-Fi is also susceptible to interference from household
devices such as microwaves, and its quality drops when signals
have to travel through walls.  
 Martz said Intel, whose chips run more than 80 percent of
computers, is far more comfortable talking to IT managers about
geeky stuff than making technology consumer-friendly.  
 So he decided to take his technology on the road to build
support among potential customers. Martz’s associates took early
(and barely tested) versions of their invention to PC makers in
Taiwan and Tokyo and then to Richfield, Minnesota-based retailer
Best Buy Co.  
 After demonstrations that they were never entirely sure
would work, the group won the positive feedback needed to
persuade top Intel executives to fund the project.  
 Intel formally unveiled its Wi-Di feature in January, and
Martz said it may eventually show up on tablet PCs and
handhelds, though he wouldn’t discuss timing or which companies
plan to use the technology.  
 Wi-Di’s success may depend on how quickly Intel can get TV
makers to build the technology into their sets, said Jim
McGregor, an analyst at market researcher In-Stat. “It’s got to
be an invisible cost to the consumer.”  
 None of the five TV makers contacted by Bloomberg
Businessweek would comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Gary Martz championed the idea of turning TVs into computer monitors. Photographer: John W. Clark/Businessweek via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
