-- Messi Needs a Standout World Cup to Boost Popularity, Income in Argentina
-- Rodrigo Orihuela
-- 2010-06-17T15:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/lionel-messi-needs-standout-world-cup-to-boost-popularity-in-argentina.html

          
          
             Lionel Messi , the reigning FIFA
soccer player of the year, has yet to win over his homeland of
Argentina, and the World Cup may be his best chance.  
 The 22-year-old, who’s played for Spain’s Barcelona since
age 13, isn’t as well liked as striker  Carlos Tevez  because his
association with Argentina is weaker, according to an April
survey by Mexico City-based researcher  Kitelab  of 600
Argentines.  
 His country’s biggest talent since  Diego Maradona , Messi
needs a standout World Cup to alter that perception, according
to biographer Luca Caioli. Maradona, a national icon after
helping Argentina win the 1986 tournament, is now its coach and
oversaw a 4-1 win against South Korea today.  
 “Argentines don’t see Messi as one of their own, they
think he’s almost Spanish,” Caioli said. “The World Cup could
change that.”  
 Messi’s fame is growing outside Argentina and he’s the
squad member that creates the most buzz abroad, said Guillermo
Tofoni, president of World Eleven SA, which organizes its
exhibition games. In March, Messi topped  David Beckham  in France
Football’s list of the richest players with 33 million euros
($40.5 million) in salary and endorsements.  
 The magazine’s information is false, Pablo Negre,
commercial director of Leo Messi Management SL, said by
telephone from Barcelona. Messi endorses brands including Adidas
AG and PepsiCo’s Lay’s potato chips.  
 Qualifying Struggles  
 Messi has been inconsistent for Argentina: he was left on
the substitute’s bench when it lost to Germany in the 2006 World
Cup quarterfinals. He struggled in qualifying games last year,
including a 6-1 loss in Bolivia at 3,600 meters (11,911 feet)
above sea level, because he’s not used to South American soccer,
according to Tofoni.  
 In South Africa, Messi sliced through Nigeria and South
Korea’s defenses as Argentina won its first two group games,
although he was denied a goal by saves and near-misses.
Argentina beat Nigeria 1-0 on June 12.  
 “I want Messi to be very close to the ball,” Maradona
said after the Nigeria game. “If we take the ball away from him
it would be like taking a piece of chocolate away from a kid.
Football is beautiful if you let Messi have the ball.”  
 For Barcelona, Messi has enjoyed repeated success,
provoking some bitterness in Argentina. After he helped the
Catalan club sweep all six competitions it entered last year
with a 2-1 win over Estudiantes in the Club World Cup final in
Abu Dhabi, “Messi” was scrawled in red paint on a wall in La
Plata, the Argentine city where Estudiantes are based. A $ sign
replaced the two Ss in his surname.  
 Buenos Aires Boy  
 Tevez, who was raised in the Ejercito de los Andes
neighborhood of Buenos Aires that’s known as Fort Apache because
it’s so dangerous, scored 4.56 out of five in the Kitelab
survey. Messi got 4.42. Tevez, who plays for England’s
Manchester City, is more popular because of his humble
background and his ties with Buenos Aires-based Boca Juniors,
Kitelab said. No margin for error was given.  
 “Messi doesn’t have any big local club fan base,” said
Jorge Raffo, a former  Boca Juniors  forward. “Nobody will go out
of their way to support him.”  
 Messi left Newell’s Old Boys in Rosario, Argentina, for
Spain after Barcelona agreed to pay for his growth hormone
therapy treatment. Barcelona began paying Messi’s metal-worker
father a salary of $50,000 for a job in the youth team, a way to
fund his services, El Pais newspaper reported. He couldn’t sign
professional terms legally until aged 18, a year after he became
Barcelona’s youngest scorer.  
 ‘Anonymous Character’  
 He has won the adoration of Barcelona’s squad and fans.
After scoring four goals against Arsenal in an April 6 Champions
League match, he ambled off the field bouncing the match ball as
thousands of fans at the Nou Camp stadium chanted his name.
Coach  Pep Guardiola  said afterwards that Messi is endearing
because of his love of soccer and “anonymous character.”  
 “It doesn’t bother me that they call me ‘the Catalan’ but
it angers me that they may think I am not Argentine,” Messi
told El Pais in December. “Nothing bothers me more when they
say I don’t love the Argentine shirt.”  
 Messi wasn’t available for interview, Negre said.  
 Argentines forget how Messi argued with Barcelona to let
him represent his country at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, said
Raffo, who’s now sports director of Barcelona’s youth
development program in Argentina. Messi set up the winning goal
to help the team beat Nigeria 1-0 in the final.  
 Messi’s efforts to forge a closer tie with Argentina may be
stymied unless its play improves, Caioli said. Following the
defeat in Bolivia, Argentina’s biggest loss since 1958, it
trailed Brazil, Paraguay and Chile in World Cup qualifying.  
 “Argentina isn’t Barcelona,” Caioli said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        