-- Iran Says It Doesn't Need Arms Imports Banned Under UN Nuclear Sanctions
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-06-17T14:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/iran-says-it-doesn-t-need-arms-imports-banned-under-un-nuclear-sanctions.html

          
          
             Iran isn’t interested in importing
arms banned in the fourth round of United Nations nuclear
sanctions against the country because it can build its own
weapons, said Defense Minister  Ahmad Vahidi , who is on a U.S.
list of people who should be targeted by the UN measures.  
 “Iran is self-sufficient in mass production of tanks,
artillery, helicopters and warships,” Vahidi was cited as
saying by the state-run  Fars  news agency. “Not only we are not
interested in these weapons, we can export them.”  
 The sanctions resolution passed by the UN Security Council
June 9 calls for a tighter arms embargo and authority to seize
cargo potentially usable in nuclear weapons or missiles, as well
as restrictions on financial transactions with Iran. It didn’t
mandate curbs on Iran’s energy industries.  
 The U.S. invoked the sanctions yesterday to bar
transactions involving the Revolutionary Guard Corps’ Air Force
and Missile Command. The Air Force and missile units of the
Revolutionary Guard have ties to Iran’s ballistic-missile
program, according to a U.S. Treasury statement on the action.  
 In addition to Vahidi, the U.S. blacklist includes
Revolutionary Guard Corps Commander  Mohammad Ali Jafari  and
 Mohammad Reza Naqdi , commander of the Guards’ Basij militia.  
 Also cited in the U.S. action were Rah Sahel and the
Sepanir Oil and Gas Engineering Co., described by the Treasury
as subsidiaries of the Revolutionary Guards’ engineering arm.  
 ‘Civil Projects’  
 Vahidi said the companies sanctioned include those active
in the “building of roads, dams and civil projects.” The
restrictions won’t stop Iran’s progress, and will “encourage
our youth and elite to become further self-sufficient,” he
said.  
 Khatam al-Anbiya Construction Headquarters, the engineering
arm of the Guards, says on its  website  that it has completed
1,836 projects and has another 288 under way. The projects vary
from oil and gas to steel structures, port development and
agriculture, it said.  
 The latest sanctions, adopted after six months of
negotiations aimed at winning the support of Security Council
members China and Russia, are intended to prevent Iran from
developing a nuclear weapon and to compel the Middle Eastern
nation to enter international talks.  
 Iran, with the world’s second-biggest oil and gas reserves,
has said its nuclear program is intended for generating
electricity for a growing population. President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  has said the new sanctions should be “thrown into
the trash bin like a used tissue.”  
 EU Sanctions  
 European Union governments also strengthened sanctions
against Iran. The penalties will hit “key sectors of the gas
and oil industry with prohibition of new investment, technical
assistance and transfers of technologies, equipment and
services,” according to a statement prepared for today’s EU
summit in Brussels.  
 Vahidi has been subject to an Interpol “ red notice ” since
November 2007 in connection with the bombing of an Argentine
Jewish center. Such a notice is distributed to police agencies
worldwide to request their assistance in detaining a suspect,
according to the website of Interpol, based in Lyon, France.  
 A senior member of the Guards who has served as deputy
defense minister twice, Vahidi is accused by Argentina of a role
in the 1994 bombing of the center in Buenos Aires, the worst
attack on a Jewish target outside Israel since World War II. The
blast left 85 people dead and injured more than 150. Argentina
is seeking his extradition.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        