-- Israel Eases Gaza Blockade, Allows in More Imports
-- Calev Ben-David
-- 2010-06-17T18:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/israel-buckles-to-pressure-expands-list-of-goods-it-will-allow-into-gaza.html

          
          
             Israel’s top ministers decided to
relax the blockade of the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip after
facing international criticism for a raid against an aid
flotilla trying to breach the embargo that left nine Turks dead.  
 The decision will change the system by which goods enter
Gaza and expand the import of “materials for civilian projects
under international supervision,” the prime minister’s office
said in an e-mailed statement today. Security procedures to
prevent arms smuggling will remain in place, it said.  
 Ismail al-Ashqar, a senior Hamas official, called the move
“meaningless and nonsense” and demanded a complete lifting of
the siege. Chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said the
Israeli decision was “insufficient.”  
 The U.S., United Nations and European Union said after the
May 31 commando raid that the situation in Gaza was
unsustainable. Palestinians say Israel’s restrictions on imports
have created a humanitarian crisis, while Israel says imports
such as construction materials can be used to build rockets,
bunkers and bombs.  
 The U.S. welcomed “‘the general principles” of Israel’s
announcement. “They reflect the type of changes we’ve been
discussing with our Israeli friends,” said  Mark Toner , a State
Department spokesman. The U.S. Special Envoy to the Middle East,
 George Mitchell , is in the region now and will continue to work
on ways to further ease the blockade, Toner said.  
 Greater Easing  
 Toner said the U.S. would like to see a greater easing of
the blockade beyond the spices, potato chips and other items now
allowed into the territory. “We want to expand the scope and
types of goods allowed into Gaza to address the Palestinians’
legitimate needs for sustained humanitarian assistance and
regular access for reconstruction materials while addressing,
obviously, Israel’s legitimate security needs,” he said.  
 “Obviously this decision is some kind of response to the
very difficult political situation created by the fallout or
aftermath from the convoy raid,” said  Mark Heller , principal
research associate at the Institute for National Security
Studies in Tel Aviv.  
 ‘Additional Steps’  
 Ministers “will decide in the coming days on additional
steps to implement” the decision, according to the statement
from Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu .  
 U.S. envoy  George Mitchell  met Netanyahu at his Jerusalem
office after the decision was announced to discuss Israeli-
Palestinian peace efforts, U.S. Embassy spokesman Karl Hoyer
said in a telephone interview. Earlier, Mitchell met with
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak , calling on all sides to “exercise
restraint” and “to avoid confrontation,” according to an e-
mailed statement from Barak’s office.  
 Mitchell, a former Senate majority leader, is scheduled to
meet tomorrow with Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salem
Fayyad in the West Bank city of Ramallah.  
 The statement from Netanyahu’s office, which was released
after a meeting of top ministers, didn’t specify the changes
Israel was taking to ease the blockade. Middle East envoy  Tony Blair  said this week that under new guidelines, construction
materials needed to rebuild following the 2008 conflict between
Israel and Hamas would be more freely allowed into the area.  
 New List  
 Blair also said that there would be a change “from the so-
called permitted list of items, where things only come in when
they’re on that list, to the prohibited list, where things come
in unless they’re on that list.”  
 Erakat said that Israel has allowed only 114 items into
Gaza. “Palestinian basic needs require at least 8,000 items
that continue to be prohibited,” he said.  
 Israel this month started allowing in soft drinks, fruit
juice, spices and potato chips, said Raed Fattouh, the
Palestinian Authority’s liaison officer at the Kerem Shalom
crossing. Mayonnaise, ketchup, sewing needles and thread also
have been newly let in, he added.  
 Proposals examined by Israeli ministers this week also
included allowing European observers to help monitor goods going
into Gaza at the Rafah crossing from Egypt, at the Israeli port
of Ashdod, and possibly at international hubs such as Cyprus, an
Israeli government official said, speaking anonymously because
he was not authorized to speak to the press on the matter.  
 EU Task Force  
 Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign policy
chief, said yesterday that she has created a task force to see
how the bloc can help contribute to the lifting of the blockade,
which she said has led to “shocking” conditions in Gaza.  
 German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said today’s
decision is a “first step” that must be followed by “swift,
concrete and noticeable improvements in access to the Gaza
Strip.”  
 Israel imposed the embargo in 2007 after Hamas, which won
parliamentary elections in 2006, seized full control of Gaza and
ousted troops loyal to Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas . The militant Islamic group Hamas is considered a
terrorist organization by the EU, the U.S. and Israel.  
 According to figures from the Israeli  Defense Ministry , 578
trucks carrying aid entered Gaza between June 6 and 12, compared
with 484 trucks from May 30 to June 5.  
 Netanyahu said June 2 that each week “an average of 10,000
tons of goods enter Gaza” and that “there’s no shortage of
food. There’s no shortage of medicine.”  
 Israel launched a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza
into Israel since the end of the 2008 military operation,
killing one foreign worker last March, the Israeli army said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat said the Israeli decision was “insufficient.”. Photographer: Jamal Nasrallah/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
