-- Israel Gas Finds Trigger Dispute With Lebanon, Cyprus Questions Boundaries
-- Massoud A. Derhally
-- 2010-06-17T14:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/israel-gas-finds-trigger-dispute-with-lebanon-cyprus-questions-boundaries.html

          
          
             Natural gas discoveries off Israel
have sparked a debate with Lebanon over potential resources in
the eastern Mediterranean and prompted Cyprus to seek
clarification on maritime boundaries.  
 Noble Energy Inc.  and Israeli companies controlled by
billionaire  Isaac Tshuva  have announced two finds in the past 18
months that may hold 24 trillion cubic feet of gas, more than
twice the U.K.’s gas reserves. Cyprus is seeking clarification
on water borders as Lebanon officials have said the gas may
extend into its waters and urged its own prospecting.  
 “We’re engaged in an ongoing dialogue with Cyprus in order
to reach an agreement based on international practice and good
neighborly relations,” said  Yigal Palmor , a spokesman at
Israel’s Foreign Ministry. “As for Lebanon, they don’t even
acknowledge that they should talk directly with us, so their
claims are not based on good faith.”  
 The dispute adds to tension for the nation, already
criticized for its raid on a ship carrying aid to the Gaza
strip. Israel and Lebanon are technically at war and have no
diplomatic relations. Israel, which is seeking to wean itself
off oil and coal imports from as far away as Mexico and Norway
and has bought gas from Egypt in the past decade, has said the
finds may allow it to start exporting gas.  
 ‘Immediate Action’  
 “We will not allow Israel or any company working for
Israeli interests to take any amount of our gas that is falling
in our zone,” Lebanon Energy Minister  Gebran Bassil  said by
telephone on June 17, adding that it warned Noble not to work
close to its economic zone. “It’s the responsibility on the one
hand of the Israeli government and on the other hand of Noble.”  
 Bassil said the government and lawmakers “should move
quickly on starting the exploration of offshore gas.”  
 “We’re in touch with Israel regarding the demarcation of
the exclusive economic zone,” a Cyprus Foreign Ministry
official, who declined to be named citing government policy,
said by telephone. “There has been no agreement so far as there
is no appropriate legal framework in Israel.”  
 The finds,  Leviathan and Tamar , lie about 130 kilometers
(81 miles) and 90 kilometers, respectively, off Israel,
according to Israel’s National Infrastructure Ministry.  Delek
Drilling-LP , one of the fields’ partners, said on June 15, in
response to reports, that the licenses are in waters where
Israel has authority.  
 Shares Fall  
 Delek Drilling  fell 7 percent this week on concern over the
territorial disputes and as the government said it may increase
taxes on gas revenue.  Avner Oil & Gas Ltd ., another partner in
Tamar and Leviathan, fell 4 percent while Ratio Oil Exploration
1992 LP rose 2 percent. Noble is up 3 percent this week.  
 The Leviathan prospect is owned 39.7 percent by Noble, 15
percent by Ratio Oil Exploration 1992 LP, 22.7 percent by Delek
Drilling-LP and 22.7 percent by Avner Oil & Gas Ltd.  
 A coastal state is entitled to explore for oil and gas in
its economic zone, which extends 200 nautical miles (370
kilometers), according to the  United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea . A halfway point is used when the distance
between countries is less than 400 nautical miles. Haifa, in
northern Israel, is about 148 nautical miles from Cyprus, which
is located north of Leviathan.  
 Complex Claim  
 Lebanon’s claim may be complex because its border with
Israel is indented, making it harder to establish where Israel’s
sea boundary ends and Lebanese waters begin, said  Robbie Sable ,
a professor of international law at Jerusalem’s Hebrew
University. Cyprus is “a more straightforward case” since the
licenses are closer to Israel, there’s very “little to
dispute” between the two countries, he said.  
 Legal disputes between states over the maritime zones where
gas is located usually begin with negotiations, said Norman
Martinez, a lecturer at the  International Maritime Law
Institute . When negotiations fail, the parties may agree to
other means of settlement such as arbitration, he said. Most end
up in the international court of justice, he said.  
 Israel has a signed agreement with Jordan on the border in
the Gulf of Eilat, and has unwritten agreements with Egypt and
the Palestinian Authority. There’s no such agreement with
Lebanon. In cases of dispute, it is usual practice to hand the
decision to arbitrators, which are listed by the UN Convention
on the Law of the Sea of 1982. Israel isn’t a signatory to the
convention because it’s concerned over biased arbitrators.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        