-- Moneylenders in Japan Brace for Losses, Shakeout on New Rules
-- Takako Taniguchi
-- 2010-06-18T06:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/japan-consumer-lenders-brace-for-losses-closures-as-new-rules-take-effect.html

          
          
             Japan’s  consumer finance companies 
face multibillion-dollar losses and an industry shakeout as
stricter loan rules that take effect today force them to slow
lending, analysts said.  
 Aiful Corp. , Promise Co.,  Takefuji Corp.  and Acom Co., the
country’s top four consumer lenders, face losses of 503 billion
yen ($5.5 billion) over the next two years, according to
estimates from Nomura Holdings Inc. The law caps interest rates
at 20 percent and prohibits lending to borrowers with consumer
debt equal to a third or more of their annual income.  
 More than 60 percent of Japan’s 3,900 registered lenders
are yet to comply with a rule requiring them to sign up with
 credit information firms , meaning they can’t make new loans. The
caps, meant to protect borrowers, mark the final phase of a
four-year crackdown on the industry that’s contributed to the
closure of thousands of consumer lenders, choking off credit in
Asia’s largest economy.  
 “The number of consumer lenders could easily halve,” said
 Shiro Yoshioka , a Tokyo-based analyst at Japaninvest KK, an
independent research firm. “Borrowers with nowhere else to go
will end up filing for bankruptcy.”  
 About 1,530 lenders had registered with credit data
collectors Japan Credit Information Reference Center Corp. and
 Credit Information Center Corp.  as of June 1, according to the
two companies.  
 ‘Borrowing Too Much’  
 Takefuji  fell 7.6 percent to 279 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
Tokyo trading, reversing yesterday’s gains, which came after a
company official said the lender had raised funds to redeem
41.4 billion yen of convertible bonds.  
 Promise declined 6.1 percent,  Acom  dropped 5.6 percent and
Aiful 5.2 percent. The benchmark  Topix  index fell 0.3 percent.  
 Banks should lend more to individuals to meet funding needs,
as the law takes effect, said Deputy Financial Services Minister
 Kouhei Ohtsuka , speaking in front of a Tokyo train station at a
public awareness rally today to promote the legislation.  
 “With any law, there are both positive and negative
effects,” Ohtsuka said. “The legislation is aimed at stopping
people with little income from borrowing too much, and people
should understand that.”  
 Japan’s parliament passed the consumer credit law in
December 2006 following a Supreme Court ruling that lenders had
charged excessive interest rates, and gave the companies until
today to adapt to the stricter rules.  
 Ratings Cuts  
 Almost three-quarters of consumer loans carried interest of
more than 20 percent in the year ended March 2006, according to
Japan’s Financial Services Agency.  
 The crackdown led to a surge in customer claims for
interest refunds, triggering billions of dollars in industry
losses and a slump in consumer lenders’ shares. Moody’s
Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s have cut credit ratings
of Takefuji and Aiful to below investment grade, or junk.  
 Aiful , Japan’s fourth-biggest consumer lender by market
capitalization, has tumbled 96 percent in Tokyo trading since
Dec. 31, 2006, and the company reported 675 billion yen of
losses over the past four fiscal years. The Kyoto-based company
skirted bankruptcy in December after 65 creditors agreed to
delay repayments on 279.1 billion yen in debt.  
 Shares in Tokyo-based Takefuji lost 94 percent during the
period. Takefuji, which has the lowest credit  rating  from
Moody’s among the four biggest consumer lenders, has approved
less than 10 percent of loan applications since November and is
selling assets to repay debt, according to the company.  
 “Things will only continue to get worse because of the new
regulations,” according to  Ehsan Syed , a Tokyo-based analyst
with Fitch Ratings Ltd. “The business model isn’t viable
anymore.”  
 Unavoidable Loss  
 Takefuji is taking “all possible measures to survive,”
President  Akira Kiyokawa  said at a press conference in May.
Promise President  Ken Kubo  last month said this fiscal year will
be the company’s “severest,” adding a loss of “several tens
of billions of yen” is likely unavoidable.  
 Acom President  Shigeyoshi Kinoshita , while forecasting a
26.2 billion yen profit this fiscal year, said May 13, “It’s
difficult to predict what effect the loan cap will have on
borrowers’ behavior.”  
 Loan Declines  
 The companies’ customers typically take out loans to cover
living expenses, with refinancing existing debt cited as the
second-most common reason, according to a survey conducted by
the Japan Financial Services Association in December.  
 Fifty-three percent of individuals who borrow from the
lenders have annual incomes of 3 million yen or less, the survey
showed.  
 Half of those borrowers may be unable to get additional
loans from consumer finance companies because of the cap that
limits debt to a third of annual income, the lobbying group said.  
 Aiful president  Yoshitaka Fukuda  said May 12 he expects
demand for funding from individuals and business operators to
continue, though the company may be unable to lend to about half
of its existing borrowers.  
 Lawsuits claiming overcharged interest have saddled the
industry with more than 4.4 trillion yen in refund charges,
according to the association, forcing lenders to close branches
and eliminate workers to survive.  
 Costs related to interest refunds will likely total 1.6
trillion yen for Aiful, Takefuji, Acom and Promise over the next
five years, Nomura analyst  Wataru Ohtsuka  said in a May 19
report.  
 Lenders backed by large banking groups such as Promise --21
percent owned by  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.  -- and
Acom, a unit of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , have better
prospects of weathering new regulations as they benefit from
funding and loan guarantees, said Syed.  
 “Without the backing of a large bank, it’s going to be
difficult to stay competitive and profitable,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Deputy Financial Services Minister Kouhei Ohtsuka hands out tissues, publicizing new consumer finance legislation in front of a Tokyo train station today.  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk past a sign for Aiful Corp. in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
