-- Kan Shifts Focus to Cutting World's Largest Debt Ahead of Japan Elections
-- Takashi Hirokawa
-- 2010-06-17T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/japan-s-ruling-party-vows-to-cut-world-s-largest-debt-in-election-platform.html

          
          
             Japan’s prime minister vowed to
reduce the world’s largest public  debt , warning ahead of next
month’s mid-term elections that failing to do so could threaten
the nation’s sovereignty.  
 “Unless we work on fiscal rehabilitation, an international
organization such as the International Monetary Fund could
control our fiscal management,”  Naoto Kan  told reporters
yesterday. “We must rehabilitate our finances with our own
power without relying on other countries.”  
 The remarks, following the  Democratic Party of Japan ’s
release of its manifesto for the July 11 vote, show
international crises such as the one in Greece have raised
awareness in Japan, where  debt  is approaching 200 percent of
annual economic output. Kan called Japan’s reliance on borrowing
“unsustainable” last week, and a Nikkei newspaper survey taken
in May showed 49 percent of respondents opposed his
predecessor’s plan to delay raising the sales tax.  
 The DPJ called for cross-party talks on raising the
nation’s 5 percent  consumption tax , according to the election
document distributed to reporters yesterday. The plan also
reiterated a goal of 3 percent nominal economic growth over the
next 10 years and dropped an earlier pledge to double a monthly
childcare allowance to 26,000 yen ($285).  
 “The Greek crisis has greatly affected Japanese public
sentiment,”  Kazuhisa Kawakami , a political psychology professor
at Meiji Gakuin University in Tokyo, said by phone. “The DPJ
won’t lose votes by calling for a tax hike because the public
feels it’s better to share some burden rather than seeing their
country go bankrupt.”  
 10% Tax  
 Kan said yesterday he will consider the opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party ’s proposal to raise the consumption tax to 10
percent, calling it a reference point. The earliest Japan could
increase the tax would be the fall of 2012, DPJ Policy Chief
Koichiro Gemba said at the same press conference.  
 “It would be difficult for the government to restore the
nation’s fiscal health without increasing the sales tax,”  Shogo Ishii , director of the IMF’s regional office for Asia and the
Pacific said yesterday. “The 5 percent tax is relatively low
compared with other nations.”  
 It’s unlikely Japan would face a fiscal crisis similar to
that of Greece because savings and domestic ownership of
Japanese government bonds are high, he said.  
 Fifth Premier  
 Kan took power on June 8, becoming the fifth premier in
four years and the second since his party overturned five
decades of mostly one-party rule last August. Kan’s predecessor,
 Yukio Hatoyama , campaigned on a platform that included plans to
cut money reserved for public works and spend it on programs to
address problems such as Japan’s declining birth rate.  
 Yesterday’s party outline said the childcare allowance of
13,000 yen that took effect this year would be “increased,”
with the possibility that daycare and other services would
replace cash. Hatoyama had vowed to double the allowance next
year.  
 The document said the DPJ intends to lower corporate taxes,
without saying when or by how much. The DPJ in the manifesto
repeated a promise made last week to cut the primary fiscal
deficit ratio to  gross domestic product  in half by fiscal 2015.  
 Japan’s primary deficit, which excludes interest payments
on bonds, will be 7.1 percent of gross domestic product in the
year ending March 2011, according to Cabinet Office estimates
released in February.  
 The election document also left out last year’s pledge to
abolish additional gasoline  taxes  and backed off a promise to
remove highway tolls. The government will gradually reduce some
tolls while studying the effect on the transportation system,
according to the report.  
 ‘Responsible Diplomacy’  
 On foreign policy, Kan’s government repeated Hatoyama’s vow
to seek “close and equal” ties with the U.S. while adding it
would conduct “responsible diplomacy.” Hatoyama cited his
failure to fulfill a campaign pledge to move a U.S. Marine base
off the island of Okinawa among reasons for stepping down.  
 Kan’s government had an approval rating of 60 percent in an
Asahi newspaper survey published June 10, compared with
Hatoyama’s rating of 17 percent in late May. Some 39 percent of
respondents said they will vote for the DPJ in the next election,
up from 33 percent in last week’s poll. The June 8-9 telephone
survey of 1,088 people didn’t provide a margin of error.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), poses with a copy of his party's manifesto at a news conference in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
