-- JPMorgan Pressed for More Data on Fannie, Freddie Loan Buybacks
-- Dawn Kopecki
-- 2010-06-17T19:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/jpmorgan-pressed-for-more-data-on-fannie-freddie-loan-buybacks.html

          
          
             The Securities and Exchange
Commission pressed  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  to tell investors more
about mounting demands to buy back defective mortgages, an
obligation that cost the  four biggest  U.S. lenders about $5
billion last year.  
 The SEC asked the New York-based company to disclose more
about reserves set aside to cover the cost of repurchasing bad
loans it sold to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other investors,
according to a Jan. 29  letter  released today. The SEC also told
the bank to provide more details on when and how it recognizes
losses on mortgages that have been modified as well as on soured
credit-card debt.  
 “What they’re asking for is a lot more than the banks put
out in the public domain right now,” said  Christopher Whalen , a
bank analyst at Torrance, California-based Institutional Risk
Analytics. “This is going to make life uncomfortable for a lot
of the banks, because once they start mandating this kind of
disclosures, it’s going to stay.”  
 Lenders that sell mortgages to  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
have to provide warranties assuring that the loans conformed to
the agencies’ standards. With more loans going bad, the
government-sponsored companies are demanding that banks turn
over loan files so they can scour the records for missing
documentation, inaccurate data and fraud, information that can
be used to force loan buybacks.  
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, seized by federal regulators in
September 2008, asked the bank to repurchase $2.7 billion in
defective loans in 2009 and $1.4 billion in 2008,  JPMorgan  said.
The lender held $2 billion in reserves at the end of the first
quarter against future buyback requests.  
 Defective Loans  
 Of the total requested, JPMorgan repurchased $1.1 billion
in defective loans in 2009 and has offered more than 750,000
borrowers trial modifications to try to “cure” their
delinquent loans, JPMorgan said in a  separate filing . About
127,000 received permanent repayment plans. The bank’s mortgage
portfolio swelled to $292.6 billion from $115.8 billion from
2006 through 2008. The company’s response to the SEC sheds new
light on the company’s worst-performing loans made during the
housing boom.  
 In requesting the information, SEC staff told JPMorgan
Chief Financial Officer  Michael Cavanagh  that their comments and
the company’s response “do not foreclose the commission from
taking any action with respect to the filing.” The SEC
concluded its review of JPMorgan’s loan-loss disclosures, which
the bank included in a Jan. 15 securities filing, on May 3. SEC
spokesman  John Heine  and JPMorgan spokesman  Joe Evangelisti 
declined to comment.  
 More Demands  
 Before 2008, demands from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
weren’t significant, JPMorgan told the SEC in its March 2
response. “However, beginning in 2008, JPMorgan Chase
experienced a higher volume of demands; these demand volumes
have steadily increased every quarter,” Corporate Controller
 Louis Rauchenberger  told the SEC.  
 Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, in McLean,
Virginia, may ask U.S. banks to repurchase $17.2 billion in
faulty loans this year, Oppenheimer & Co. analyst  Chris Kotowski 
estimated. Kotowski said in a June 9 report that U.S. banks
could lose $6 billion this year when those loans are returned
and get marked down to their true value.  
 “It is a problem that will continue to drag on the big
banks to the tune of several hundred million per quarter, but
it’s not a problem that is mushrooming out of control,”
Kotowski said.  
 Third Parties  
 JPMorgan told the SEC that 75 percent of its current
repurchase requests stem from  loans  originated in 2007 and 2008
and that it is able to file claims against third-party
originators on 40 percent of all repurchase requests.  
 The SEC questioned the bank’s calculations for its
allowance for loan losses, relating to breaches in the
agreements it has with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other
mortgage investors.  
 “Estimating the allowance is highly subjective, and is
further complicated by limited and rapidly changing historical
data and uncertainty surrounding numerous external factors,”
JPMorgan said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com   
          
          


  


        