-- KGHM CEO Wirth Says Tauron `Attractive' at Top of Polish IPO Price Range
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-06-17T11:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/kghm-ceo-wirth-says-tauron-attractive-at-top-of-polish-ipo-price-range.html

          
          
             KGHM Polska Miedz SA , the Polish
copper producer that aims to buy a stake in Tauron Polska
Energia SA, says the utility is “attractive” at the top end of
the price range in its initial public offering.  
 “We won’t buy Tauron shares at any price,” Chief
Executive Officer  Herbert Wirth  told Bloomberg News in an
interview yesterday. “A price of 0.7 zloty per share is
attractive” and has the potential to rise.  
 Poland’s government is selling 52 percent of Tauron, the
country’s second-largest electricity producer, in an IPO this
month, for 0.55 zloty to 0.7 zloty a share. KGHM, the copper
producer with the largest European mine output, said last week
it subscribed for 11 percent of the company in the book building
process, seeking to diversify revenue, cut the risk from changes
in metals prices and benefit from growing energy demand.  
 “We want to be able to have an influence on Tauron,”
Wirth said. “We don’t want to be a passive investor, and a 10
percent stake gives us such a possibility,” he said, adding
that KGHM has “some ideas” for adding value to the utility,
especially in its mining operations.  
 Yesterday the Treasury Ministry said KGHM wouldn’t receive
special treatment in the sale. Wirth, who said 10 percent was
the “optimal” stake, declined to say whether KGHM would buy
shares on the market to reach that level if its order in the IPO
is reduced.  
 The investment in the utility is separate from a plan by
KGHM and Tauron to build a 910-megawatt coal-fired power plant,
Wirth said, adding that the companies are still studying whether
to start construction.  
 If it doesn’t buy Tauron, KGHM won’t purchase a stake in
another company, Wirth said.  
 Polkomtel Sale  
 As KGHM moves into energy, it’s also trying to sell its 24
percent stake in Polkomtel SA, Poland’s biggest mobile-phone
company. Any proceeds will be used to finance investments in
operations related to copper, Wirth said, adding that the sale
is possible at the beginning of next year.  
 Polkomtel’s Polish shareholders, which also include oil
refiner  PKN Orlen SA , Tauron’s bigger rival PGE SA and coal
trader Weglokoks, are seeking a buyer for their 76 percent
stake.  
 Vodafone Plc , which holds the remaining stake, hasn’t yet
decided whether it wants to join the sellers, Wirth said. KGHM
received three offers for Polkomtel, which it needs to discuss
with fellow shareholders, he added.  
 Vodafone’s Role  
 “Vodafone’s role in the process is very important, because
just like all the shareholders, it has the right of first
refusal,” Wirth said.  
 The world’s largest mobile-phone operator used that right
to block the 2006 attempt by TDC A/S of Denmark to sell its
stake in Polkomtel. An agreement was reached two years later
when the current shareholders bought TDC’s 20 percent stake in a
deal that valued the operator at 3.7 billion euros ($4.58
billion).  
 The Polish companies have been trying to sell their
Polkomtel stake since at least 2003.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        