-- Kiel Says Euro-Area Budget Cuts to Hurt German Growth, in Blow to Merkel
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-06-17T10:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/kiel-says-euro-area-budget-cuts-to-hurt-german-growth-in-blow-to-merkel.html

          
          
             European budget-cutting measures to
stem the spread of the debt crisis will hurt economic growth in
Germany next year, the Kiel-based  Institute for the World
Economy  said, in a setback to Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  
 Spain, Italy, Greece and France are among the governments
slashing spending to stem the spread of Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis. Merkel on June 7 announced levies on banks, air travel
and nuclear-power plants as part of a savings program worth more
than 80 billion euros through 2014, putting her at odds with
U.S. calls to focus on spurring growth.  
 Those budget cuts will hit  growth in Germany , Europe’s
biggest economy, in 2011 as “fiscal policies have a damping
effect and the world economy weakens at a faster pace than we
had expected so far,” the Kiel institute said today in an e-
mailed report.  
 The German economy will expand 1.2 percent in 2011, the
institute said, cutting a March forecast of 1.8 percent growth.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in a June 4
interview that reducing deficits and strengthening growth are
not “mutually exclusive.”  
 The outlook by the Kiel institute, which advises Merkel’s
government, is a blow to the chancellor as she champions fiscal
frugality as necessary to shore up the euro ahead of a Group of
20 summit in Toronto on June 26-27.  
 Merkel said June 11 that she expects a “hard time” from
fellow G-20 leaders, who will tell her that “Germany saves too
much.” U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has called
on Europe to promote “stronger domestic demand.”  
 Weaker Euro  
 The Kiel institute raised its growth outlook for Germany
this year, saying the weakening euro is helping boost demand for
manufactured goods. The economy will grow 2.1 percent in 2010,
up from its earlier forecast of 1.2 percent, the institute said.  
 “Economic dynamism in the first half of the year is
probably much higher than we estimated in March,” it said.  
 Europe’s debt crisis has pushed the euro down 14 percent
against the dollar this year, making exports to countries
outside the 16-nation currency bloc more competitive. German
factory orders jumped for a second month in April as the weaker
euro boosted export demand and companies increased investment.  
 While the weaker euro is benefiting  German exports , the
debt crisis hasn’t had a “negative impact on the monetary
environment in Germany” as investors sought the relative safety
of German government bonds, pushing German capital market yields
lower, the institute said.  
 As the euro region’s inflation rate remains below the
European Central Bank’s limit and as tensions in lending
continue, the ECB will maintain its expansive monetary policy
and wait until the final quarter of 2011 before raising interest
rates, the institute said. Its forecasts are based on a euro
exchange rate of $1.20 against the U.S. dollar through 2011.  
 Kiel is one of eight organizations, grouped into four
units, which provide twice-yearly reports for the government.
The groups are Munich’s Ifo institute with the KOF institute in
Zurich; the IfW with the ZEW institute; the IW Halle institute
with Kiel Economics and Research Forecasting; and the RWI Essen
institute with the Institute for Hoehere Studien in Vienna.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        