-- Knight Panel Says Collegiate Sports Spending May `Destabilize' Education
-- Curtis Eichelberger
-- 2010-06-17T14:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/knight-panel-says-collegiate-sports-spending-may-destabilize-education.html

          
          
             Colleges have increased their rate
of spending on athletes at almost twice the rate as on average
students and the imbalance is pushing higher education in the
U.S. toward “financial destabilization,” the  Knight Commission
on Intercollegiate Athletics  said today.  
 The nonprofit group, which includes current and former
university presidents and former athletes on its board, issued a
24-page report detailing steps schools should take to reduce
sports expenses and realign the mission of athletics with that
of the rest of the university.  
 Only seven U.S. sports programs generated enough revenue to
have an operating profit in each of the past five years. At most
schools, the growth in athletic spending has required greater
subsidies from the university and state taxpayers and higher
fees from the student body, the report said.  
 “The considerable financial pressures and ever-increasing
spending in today’s college sports system could lead to
permanent and untenable competition between academics and
athletics,” the report said. “More broadly, this model could
lead to a loss of credibility for higher education itself.”  
 The report, produced after an 18-month-long study, is the
third issued by the 20-year-old panel as it examines the
business of college sports. While it carries no official weight,
the commission is well-respected in the industry and its
recommendations usually are considered seriously by the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association , the main governing body of
college sports in the U.S.  
 Bigger Increase  
 The report shows that athletic department spending
increased 37.5 percent to a median average of $84,446 per
athlete at 97 of 103 public schools in the Football Bowl
Subdivision between 2005 and 2008. Meanwhile, university
spending per student overall increased 20.5 percent to a median
average of $13,349.  
 When the commission looked at schools by conference, it
found that athletic departments were spending between five and
11 times as much per athlete as the university was spending per
student overall.  
 The biggest difference was found in the  Southeastern
Conference , with schools spending an average $13,410 per student
for academics and $144,592 per student in athletics.  
 Of the six  major conferences -- Southeast, Big 12, Big
Ten, Atlantic Coast, Pacific-10 and Big East -- the Big East had
the smallest differential, with its members spending $17,504 per
student and $84,887 per athlete.  
 The Knight Commission estimates that the budget for the top
athletic departments will exceed $250 million in 2020 to serve
only about 600 athletes. It called the figure “untenable.”  
 “The current financial trends have led to increasing
imbalances between athletics and academics and the threat of
financial destabilization of the national enterprise,” said
 Peter Likins , president emeritus of the University of Arizona.  
 The commission also called for public reporting of athletic
department finances, including long-term debt and capital
spending; elimination of non-traditional seasons such as autumn
baseball; and reduction of non-coaching staffs and team size.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        