-- Korean Credit Card Company Won Bonds Will Outperform Peers, KB Asset Says
-- Jungmin Hong
-- 2010-06-17T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/korean-credit-card-company-won-bonds-will-outperform-peers-kb-asset-says.html

          
          
             Local-currency bonds sold by South
Korean credit card companies will beat those of other industries
as earnings improve and delinquency rates decline, according to
 KB Asset Management , a unit of the country’s largest lender.  
 “The notes will outperform,”  Moon Donghoon , who oversees
11.5 trillion won ($9.5 billion) as head of fixed-income for the
Kookmin Bank unit, said in an interview in Seoul. “Stronger
fundamentals are still not factored into the spreads.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own the 80 billion won
of 5.92 percent bonds due 2013 owed by Shinhan Card Co., Korea’s
biggest card company, fell to 109 basis points from 150 basis
points this year, according to Nice Pricing Service. Similarly-
rated Korean company debt trades at an average 94 basis point
spread, data compiled by the Korea Financial Investment
Association show.  
 Net income at Korea’s six non-bank credit card issuers
climbed 18 percent to 494 billion won in the quarter to March 31
as consumer spending began to recover from the worst global
recession since the Great Depression, according to the Financial
Supervisory Service. The delinquency rate plunged to 1.96
percent as of March 31, the lowest in more than six years, from
2.23 percent at the end of 2009, FSS data show.  
 Korea’s credit card companies, which include Shinhan Card,
 Hyundai Card Co.  and Samsung Card Co., have improved their risk
management techniques after implementing “significant”
restructuring, Moon said.  
 Lax standards allowed their delinquency rate to jump to 30
percent in 2003, forcing market leader LG Card Co. to the brink
of bankruptcy, according to Tong Yang Securities Inc. analyst
Lee Hyun Joo.  
 South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said on May 17 that
domestic demand has almost recovered to pre-crisis levels and
that “the green light is finally on” for economic expansion.  
 Credit card transactions volumes will probably rise 6.1
percent this year as consumer confidence strengthens, the Hana
Institute of Finance forecast in November.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        