-- Korean Won Slips From Two-Week High as Europe Debt Woes Fuel Dollar Demand
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-06-17T01:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/korean-won-slips-from-two-week-high-as-europe-debt-woes-fuel-dollar-demand.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won retreated from a
two-week high as concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen
bolstered demand for dollars.  
 The euro fell for a second day as Spain decided to publish
banks’ stress test results, a move that may force other European
countries to follow suit as investors demand more disclosure of
the risks on banks’ books. Korean exports, which rose for a
seventh month in May, may cool as governments in Germany, Italy
and Spain rein in spending to help narrow budget deficits.  
 “The won is sensitive to the euro,” said  Ko Yun Jin , a
currency dealer at Kookmin Bank in Seoul. “The won has been
fluctuating based on the euro’s movements. We will have to watch
how foreigners buy or sell Korean stocks today. The won may
fluctuate at a level of 1,210 against the dollar.”  
 The won fell 0.2 percent to 1,213.25 per dollar as of 9:57
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
earlier touched 1,205.98, the highest level since June 4. The
currency strengthened 1.4 percent yesterday as foreigners bought
more  shares  than they sold for a fourth day, boosting net
purchases for the week to $545 million.  
 The Bank of Spain will make stress test findings public to
give investors more information on the state of the banks,
central bank Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said
yesterday. Banking groups in Germany and the U.K. have said
disclosing details on specific institutions carried risks.  
 The won’s losses over Spain’s debt woes may be limited as
“the won has developed a sense of immunity to the Europe
disaster,” said  Kyu Youn Ko , a Seoul-based currency dealer at
Korea Exchange Bank. Ko predicts the won will be supported above
1,200 per dollar as exporters repatriate income.  
 South Korea’s  benchmark three-year bonds were little
changed. The yield on the 3.75 percent note due June 2013 fell
one basis point to 3.72 percent, according to Korea Stock
Exchange.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        