-- UBS, JPMorgan, N.J. Ponzi, SocGen, Mahindra, Northern Rock in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-17T10:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/n-j-ponzi-taylor-bean-socgen-mahindra-northern-rock-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Swiss lawmakers approved a  UBS AG 
tax treaty, ending a two-year legal battle with the U.S. that
threatened the bank’s American operations.  
 The agreement, through votes in both chambers of
Parliament, came after week-long negotiations between the upper
and the lower house in which deputies dropped a demand for the
treaty to be opened to a nationwide referendum.  
 “This is a good result for the constructive forces in this
Parliament,” Swiss Justice Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf told
reporters after the debate. “I’m relieved.”  
 Switzerland agreed in August 2009 to hand over data on as
many as 4,450  UBS  clients suspected of tax evasion to the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service. Parliamentary approval became
necessary after a court ruled on Jan. 21 that the agreement
couldn’t be enforced as it then stood. A referendum would have
meant a deadline for disclosure of the information would have
been missed.  
 The Bern, Switzerland-based lower house, or National
Council, voted 81-63 to endorse the treaty without the
referendum option, with 47 abstentions. The upper house, or
Council of States, approved the treaty earlier today.  
 In February 2009, UBS avoided U.S. prosecution by paying
$780 million, admitting it helped wealthy Americans evade U.S.
taxes from 2000 to 2007, and handing over account data on more
than 250 U.S. clients. The next day, the U.S. sued UBS, seeking
data on 52,000 Swiss accounts in a so-called John Doe summons.  
 Today’s vote removed the threat of further civil litigation
against UBS under the John Doe summons and additional fallout
under criminal law. The U.S. Justice Department agreed last year
to defer prosecution of UBS for allegedly aiding tax evasion.  
 Justice Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said at the time
UBS faced an “existential threat” without the accord and the
Swiss economy would have suffered severe repercussions.  
 In a January ruling, the Swiss Federal Administrative Court
said the deal struck between Switzerland and the U.S. wasn’t
enforceable under existing bank-secrecy rules.  
 For more, click here.  
 New Suits  
 JPMorgan Sued by Assured Guaranty Over Alabama Sewer Bonds  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  was sued by insurer  Assured Guaranty
Ltd.  to recover all claims the guarantor might have to pay on
$378 million of coverage provided for sewer bonds issued by
 Jefferson County, Alabama .  
 Assured, the top U.S. municipal debt insurer by volume,
said in a lawsuit filed yesterday in New York State Supreme
court in Manhattan that New York-based JPMorgan concealed about
$3 million in illegal payments to friends of county
commissioners to ensure it won business with the county. Some of
the payments were then funneled to the officials, the complaint
said.  
 “Had JPMorgan and the county not misrepresented and
concealed from Assured the true facts regarding the unlawful
payments that JPMorgan made to secure its position as lead
underwriter for the warrants and swap provider for the county,
Assured never would have issued the policies,” the lawsuit
said.  
 Assured Guaranty is the second bond insurer to sue JPMorgan
over a $3 billion refinancing of sewer debt that collapsed
during the credit crisis and almost bankrupted the county.
Syncora Guaranty Inc. sued JPMorgan and the county on April 29
alleging they fraudulently obtained more than $1 billion in
insurance coverage for the sewer bonds.  
 Brian Marchiony, a JPMorgan spokesman, didn’t return a call
and e-mail seeking comment.  
 JPMorgan arranged the refinancing of the Jefferson County
sewer system in 2002 and 2003, converting the district’s fixed-
rate debt -- issued so the sewer system was able to comply with
a 1996 federal consent decree -- into floating-rate bonds.  
 The obligations were paired with more than $5 billion of
interest-rate swaps, meant to lock in lower borrowing costs.  
 The financing fell apart in 2008 when the companies
guaranteeing the debt lost their top credit ratings because of
losses on unrelated mortgage-backed securities. In January 2008,
Jefferson County’s interest costs soared more than threefold to
10 percent.  
 Financial Security Assurance Holdings Inc ., acquired by
Assured Guaranty in July, provided insurance to the county,
which according to the lawsuit included $352 million of the
sewer bonds and a $26.4 million surety bond. Assured has paid
more than $4 million on the surety bond, the suit said.  
 The case is Assured Guranty Municipal Corp. F/K/A/
Financial Security Assurance Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA,
650642, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  
 New Jersey Woman Charged in $45 Million Ponzi Scheme  
 A New Jersey woman was charged with directing a $45 million
real estate Ponzi scheme that allegedly defrauded more than 20
investors in New York and New Jersey.  
 Antoinette Hodgson, 58, of Montclair, New Jersey, was
released yesterday on $6 million bond after appearing before
U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in Manhattan. Hodgson paid off
early investors in her business with funds from later
participants and spent some of their money on herself, said
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara.  
 Hodgson, in a scheme from 2006 to December 2009, promised
high rates of return on funds to buy and renovate residential
properties that would be re-sold or rented, prosecutors said.
She spent hundreds of thousands of dollars at Atlantic City and
Las Vegas casinos, used $70,000 to buy a Dunkin’ Donuts
franchise in Arizona, and gave herself, friends and family
members tens of thousands more, prosecutors said.  
 “What Antoinette Hodgson allegedly promised to investors
seemed too good to be true and that’s because it was,” Bharara
said in a statement. “This case is a further reminder that
whether the real estate market is up or down, innocent investors
can be and will be targeted by unscrupulous fraudsters.”  
 Jack Arseneault, Hodgson’s lawyer, said after court that
his client didn’t misappropriate investors’ money and will fight
the charges.  
 The case is U.S. v. Antoinette Hodgson, 10-MAG-01261,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Former Taylor Bean Chief Farkas Charged With Fraud  
 Lee Farkas, the former chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp., was accused by the U.S. of helping run a more
than $1.9 billion fraud scheme aimed in part at the government’s
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 An indictment unsealed yesterday in  federal court  in
Alexandria, Virginia, alleges that Farkas, 57, and fellow
conspirators sought to deceive financial firms and TARP by
covering up shortfalls at his closely held mortgage lending
company based in Ocala, Florida. The company filed for
bankruptcy in August.  
 Farkas was arrested June 15 by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in Ocala, said Lindsay Godwin, an FBI spokeswoman.  
 The scheme contributed to the failure of  Colonial BancGroup 
Inc., one of the 50 largest U.S. banks in 2009, and Taylor, Bean
& Whitaker, once one of the largest closely held mortgage
companies in the U.S., the Justice Department said in a news
release.  
 Farkas and unnamed co-conspirators are accused by the
government of misappropriating more than $400 million from a
division of Colonial and about $1.5 billion from Ocala Funding,
a mortgage lending facility controlled by Taylor, Bean &
Whitaker. The indictment alleges that Farkas and his co-
conspirators committed wire and securities fraud by attempting
unsuccessfully to persuade the government to provide Colonial
with about $553 million in TARP funds.  
 Farkas misappropriated more than $20 million in Taylor,
Bean & Whitaker funds for personal use, according to the
government’s pretrial detention memo.  
 “Mr. Farkas will enter a plea of absolutely not guilty,
will vigorously defend against the charges and looks forward to
having his day in court to clear his name,” Anthony C. Cochran,
an attorney for Farkas with  Chilivis, Cochran, Larkins & Bever
LLP  in Atlanta, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The case is USA v. Farkas, 10cr200, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  
 Mahindra Sued by Georgia Auto Dealer to Enforce Sales Accord  
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. , India’s largest maker of sport-
utility vehicles, was sued by a Georgia dealer, which asked the
Atlanta District Court to prohibit Mahindra from sales in the
U.S. through any other distributor.  
 Global Vehicles USA Inc. said in its June 14 lawsuit that
Mahindra breached a 2006 agreement by twice rejecting its
purchase orders for the  Mumbai-based company’s  vehicles. It also
asked the court to order Mahindra to perform its obligations
under the agreement.  
 Roma Balwani, a spokeswoman for Mahindra, said yesterday
the lawsuit and a separate arbitration was without merit and
would be “vigorously contested.”  
 “Mahindra remains committed to launch its products in the
U.S. market,” she said in an e-mailed statement. The Indian
automaker’s plan to sell its  Scorpio  pickup truck in the U.S.
has been held up by more than a year after delays in obtaining
technical clearance for its vehicles, a process known as
homologation.  
 Global Vehicles, based in Alpharetta, Georgia, said in its
lawsuit that  Mahindra  “in bad faith” engaged in protracted
contract negotiations for services relating to emission tests
prescribed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and
safety tests prescribed by the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, or NHTSA.  
 The case is Global Vehicles USA Inc. v. Mahindra & Mahindra
Ltd., 10-CV-1818, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Georgia (Atlanta).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 U.S. Won’t Lift Deepwater Drilling Ban, Lawyers Tell Judge  
 The six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling ordered in
the wake of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill is essential to ensure
public safety and shouldn’t be lifted, U.S. regulators said
yesterday in a court filing.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other offshore service
and supply companies last week sued U.S. Interior Secretary
Kenneth Salazar, the head of the  Minerals Management Service ,
and both federal agencies, asking a federal court in New Orleans
to lift an executive ban on oil and natural gas exploration in
waters more than 500 feet deep.  
 The moratorium was imposed May 27 after the April explosion
and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon off the Louisiana coast,
which has triggered the largest oil spill in U.S. history.
Hornbeck and the other companies contend they will suffer
irreparable economic harm from the suspension in drilling. The
U.S. said further investigation is needed before the ban can be
lifted.  
 “The Secretary’s decision was a valid exercise of his
discretion predicated on the need to ensure that no further
drilling accidents occur pending review and implementation of
safety protocols and procedures,” lawyers for the agencies said
yesterday. “The short-term economic harm asserted by the
plaintiffs fails to meet their burden of demonstrating
irreparable harm.”  
 The moratorium applies to all floating rigs in the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico except two hired by BP Plc to drill relief wells
to try to cap the runaway well spewing from 35,000 to 60,000
barrels of oil daily.  
 The lawsuit was originally filed June 7 by Covington,
Louisiana-based Hornbeck. Since then, it has been joined by more
than a dozen companies that build rigs, operate supply-boat
fleets, provide remotely-operated submarines, clean tanks, load
cargo and provide other support for the 33 rigs drilling in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico when the ban was imposed.  
 “The potential immediate losses include, but are not
limited to, the loss of 3,000 to 6,000 Louisiana jobs directly
and indirectly related to the deepwater drilling operations at
the 33 wells,” Hornbeck attorney Carl Rosenblum said in court
papers June 9. “Lost wages for direct and indirect jobs lost
could be over $165 million to $330 million per month for every
month the 33 platforms are idle.”  
 Rosenblum didn’t return a call seeking comment yesterday.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 UBS Banker Poteroba’s Codefendant Koval Seeks Bail  
 Alexei Koval, who prosecutors said conspired with  UBS AG 
investment banker Igor Poteroba to earn almost $1 million in
profits through insider trading, sought release on bail
yesterday after being indicted.  
 Koval, 36, of Chicago, was charged with conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and three counts of insider trading in a
scheme that lasted from 2005 to this March, said prosecutors in
the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. The
indictment was filed May 20 and made public yesterday.  
 Poteroba was accused in March in a criminal complaint of
leaking to Koval and a third person merger tips on six UBS
Healthcare Client mergers and acquisitions which were being
considered. The ring used code words such as “frequent flier
miles” and references to a Macy’s Inc. wedding registry and
earned at least $870,000 from the illegal trades, prosecutors
said.  
 Koval pleaded not guilty when he was arraigned in May, his
lawyer, James DeVita, said after court yesterday. Poteroba, 36,
who the U.S. said is an executive director at  UBS Securities
LLC , wasn’t named in yesterday’s indictment. Both men face as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted of securities fraud.  
 Koval has remained in custody since his arrest in Chicago
in March. U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Maas yesterday delayed a
hearing on setting bail for two days to give Koval’s lawyer time
to find three people acceptable to prosecutors to co-sign the
bond. DeVita proposed a $5 million bond.  
 A federal judge in New York on March 25 set Poteroba’s bail
at $5 million.  
 Kris Kagel, a spokesman for Zurich-based UBS, said March 24
that the bank was cooperating with the authorities and that
Poteroba was on administrative leave.  
 The case is U.S. v. Poteroba, 10-CR-443, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For copies of recent civil complaints, click here. For the
latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Kerviel Says Faked Orders for Misdirection Weren’t ‘Credible’  
 Jerome Kerviel said he created fictitious transactions to
sidetrack  Societe Generale SA  controllers, while denying his
actions deserved to be called forgery.  
 The former trader denied he made fakes, in response to a
judge’s question, while conceding he put false information on
computers, created false documents in e-mails and traded beyond
limits set by the bank.  
 “The explanation was not credible,” Kerviel said of a
response to questions from one of the bank’s controllers sent in
July 2007. On June 15, Kerviel testified his cover-ups were “so
crude” they should have been discredited and only served to buy
him time to get his trades back into positive territory.  
 Kerviel, 33, is on trial, blamed for the bank’s 4.9
billion-euro ($6 billion)  loss  in January 2008, the result of
unwinding 50 billion euros worth of positions he took and hid
with fake hedges. In addition to falsifying documents, he is
charged with computer hacking and abuse of trust.  
 Judge Dominique Pauthe reviewed some of the dozens of e-
mails between Kerviel and various bank officials yesterday,
asking Kerviel to explain financial terminology, abbreviations
and English terms.  
 The hearing opened with a debate between lawyers for the
bank and the former trader over whether France’s second-largest
bank by market value should turn over additional computer hard
drives related to Kerviel now located in Chicago.  
 “We want transparency,” said Kerviel lawyer Olivier
Metzner.  
 Societe Generale lawyer Jean Veil said the bank has been
forthcoming in admitting it failed to catch Kerviel’s activities
in spite of repeated alerts and queries.  
 “We had weaknesses, we have admitted them,” Veil said.
“If there were never control failures, there would be no
fraud.”  
 For more, click here.  
 Northern Rock Shareholders Appeal to Human Rights Court  
 Northern Rock Plc  shareholders seeking payment from the
U.K. government for stock they claim was made worthless when the
bank was nationalized asked the  European Court of Human Rights 
to take their case.  
 Small shareholders expect to win “fair compensation” from
the court in Strasbourg, France, since investors in other
bailed-out banks were treated more favorably, Dennis Grainger, a
plaintiff in the case, said yesterday in a statement.  
 “The shareholders, the true owners, of Northern Rock, were
treated very differently by the government when compared to
shareholders in other U.K. banks which subsequently received
financial assistance,” Grainger said in the statement.  
 Northern Rock, nationalized in February 2008, was the first
U.K. casualty of the credit crunch. The lender almost collapsed
in 2007 after it had to seek emergency funding from the Bank of
England and then suffered a run on its deposits.  
 Shareholders in July 2009 lost a court bid for compensation
after a three-judge panel at the Court of Appeal in London threw
out a lawsuit filed by hedge funds SRM Global,  RAB Capital Plc 
and a group of private investors.  
 A call to the U.K. Treasury office wasn’t returned.  
 Messier Defends Bronfman Over Vivendi Share Sale at Trial  
 Former Vivendi SA Chief Executive Officer Jean-Marie
Messier told a Paris court that a 2002 plan to sell shares
wasn’t presented to ex-Vice-Chairman Edgar Bronfman Jr. as a
certainty.  
 Vivendi didn’t approve the sale until after a December 2001
board meeting attended by Bronfman, Messier said. Bronfman, who
Messier said resigned his post before the final decision was
made, is accused of gaining $12.8 million from stock options on
the basis of non-public information ahead of the share sale.  
 At a Dec. 14, 2001, board meeting “we raised the existence
of the option, and it was a serious option” to sell shares,
Messier said. “We hadn’t determined the desire, and we hadn’t
determined the date.”  
 Bronfman and Messier are among seven defendants at the
trial, which focuses on a $77 billion acquisition spree under
Messier that almost bankrupted Vivendi. A New York jury in
January found the company liable for misleading statements to
investors in the same period, prompting it to put aside 550
million euros ($677 million) to cover a possible award in the
lawsuit.  
 Vivendi is a civil plaintiff in the trial. The Paris
prosecutors’ office advised against prosecuting any of the men,
before being overruled by investigating judge Jean-Marie d’Huy.  
 Bronfman, the CEO of Warner Music Group Corp., is charged
with insider trading in the case. The other six defendants in
the case are accused of misleading investors about Vivendi’s
financial health. At least one other defendant also faces
insider-trading charges.  
 Stelios Says EasyJet Food Sales, Car Rental Are Airline Extras  
 EasyJet Plc founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou told a London
court that only ticket sales are a core airline activity under a
licensing agreement. Other activities, including on-board food
sales aren’t covered.  
 Stelios, who prefers to be known by his first name, is
suing the airline over the services that can be offered under
the “easy” and “EasyJet” name. The lawyer for Stelios’s
EasyGroup this week said that the dispute hinges on the
difference between “core” and “ancillary” airline services.  
 EasyJet, Europe’s second-largest discount carrier behind
 Ryanair Holdings Plc , signed a brand license agreement with
Stelios’s EasyGroup holding company in November 2000, shortly
before its initial offering of shares to investors. The contract
said the Luton, England-based company must derive at least 75
percent of its sales from airline operations.  
 “Anything that is an optional extra, that the passenger is
given a choice over whether to consume, is ancillary and
conducive to” the business of “offering passenger transport on
fixed-wing aircraft,” Stelios said while under cross
examination from EasyJet lawyer Geoffrey Hobbs.  
 While it would be “stupid” to charge passengers to use
the toilet, it would count as a non-core service, Stelios said.  
 The sale of services such as food, travel insurance and car
hire at the passengers’ destinations aren’t integral to the
airline’s business, EasyGroup said in court papers. EasyJet said
those services, along with luggage and priority boarding fees,
are part of its main business.  
 The case is EasyGroup IP Licensing Ltd. vs. EasyJet Airline
Company Ltd., HC 08 C02329, U.K. High Court.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here. For the
latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Google Wi-Fi Data Collection Discussed by 30 Attorneys General  
 Google Inc. ’s collection of data via Wi-Fi networks was the
subject of a conference call among law enforcement officials
from 30 U.S. states, according to Connecticut Attorney General
Richard Blumenthal.  
 “We’re looking to establish where, when, why, for how long
and for what purpose there was this collection of information on
wireless networks,” Blumenthal said June 15 in an interview.
The call included representatives of the states’ attorneys
general.  
 The discussion reflects widening concern among law
enforcement over the way  Google  handles user information. The
company said last month it mistakenly gathered data from open
wireless networks while it was capturing images of streets and
houses for its Street View service, a product that lets users
view photographs of an area online.  
 Blumenthal has demanded that Mountain View, California-
based Google inform his office of any data gathered from his
state’s residents and businesses without permission, the
attorney general said this month. Google owns the world’s
largest  search engine .  
 “This was a mistake, but we don’t believe we did anything
illegal,” Google said in an e-mailed statement. “We’re working
with the relevant authorities to answer their questions and
concerns.”  
 The U.S. Federal Trade Commission said last month that it
is reviewing Google’s data gathering. An Oregon judge has
ordered the company turn over similar data collected in that
state, including any e-mails, files or digital phone records,
according to court documents.  
 Also this month, Google said it was turning over to
regulators in Germany, France and Spain data it mistakenly
collected from unsecured Wi-Fi networks.  
 The Oregon case is Vicki Van Valin v. Google, 10-00557,
U.S. District Court, District of Oregon (Portland).  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        