-- N.Y. Officials Seek U.S. Help to Reopen Manhattan Street Closed After 9/11
-- Chris Dolmetsch
-- 2010-06-17T20:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/n-y-officials-seek-u-s-help-to-reopen-manhattan-street-closed-after-9-11.html

          
          
             A street between New York police
headquarters and the Manhattan federal courthouse closed since
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks should be reopened to save
businesses there, local politicians wrote to Homeland Security
Secretary  Janet Napolitano .  
 U.S. Representative  Jerrold Nadler  and four fellow
Democrats, including Manhattan Borough President  Scott Stringer 
and state Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver , wrote to Napolitano
today urging the department to work with local law enforcement
to help determine how the street, Park Row, can be opened.  
 “This closure has brought significant hardship for
residents,” they said. “Those with cars who live on these
blocks have had to show ID to get home, businesses have been
negatively impacted because of the decrease in traffic, and many
who relied on Park Row as a means to travel between Chinatown
and the Financial District has been inconvenienced.”  
 Residents and officials from Chinatown and other
neighborhoods have been pushing for years to reopen Park Row.
The city began allowing buses and pedestrians to use it in April
2005 after determining the area’s risk of attack had fallen.  
 Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  met with residents of
the area last month and offered his support in getting the
federal government to study the issue, Nadler’s office said in a
statement.  
 Amy Kudwa , a spokeswoman for the Homeland Security
Department, said in a telephone interview that the department
would respond through correspondence and not through the media.
 Paul Browne , a police spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to a
telephone message seeking comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        