-- Nestle to Sail Amazon Rivers to Reach Emerging-Market Consumers
-- Iuri Dantas
-- 2010-06-17T19:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/nestle-navigates-amazon-rivers-to-reach-cut-off-consumers-before-unilever.html

          
          
             Nestle SA  will begin sailing a
supermarket barge down two Amazon river tributaries tomorrow as
it competes with Unilever to reach emerging-market customers cut
off from branded goods.  
 The world’s largest food company will send a boat with
100-square meters (1,076 square feet) of supermarket space on a
journey to 18 small cities and 800,000 potential consumers on
the Para and Xingu rivers in Brazil, before starting the journey
again. The vessel will carry 300 different goods including
chocolate, yogurt, ice cream and juices.  
 “Direct distribution gives them a competitive edge over
regional  competitors  who don’t have the resources to do this
kind of thing,” said  James Targett , an analyst at Consumer
Equity Research in London. He has a “positive” rating on
Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle.  
 Nestle expects as many as 1 billion people in emerging
markets to exit poverty and be able to afford its products in
the coming decade. The foodmaker has adapted its products in
such regions by offering smaller, cheaper versions of products
such as Alpino ice cream and Ninho milk powder through direct
distribution to make them more accessible to low-income
shoppers.  Unilever  has also been building a distribution network
into Brazil’s shantytowns.  
 River Streets  
 “In Para, rivers act as streets and avenues,” Nestle
Brazil President  Ivan Zurita  said today in an interview. “We
have to adapt to this reality.” People’s “daily lives here are
linked to fishing, to the region they live in. They don’t have
the time or money to get to the capital.”  
 Nestle has invested 1 million reais ($560,000) in products
and partnerships with local suppliers for the project, Zurita
said. If successful, Nestle may expand it in Brazil or in other
countries such as the Philippines, he said.  
 Supermarket purchases in Brazil’s impoverished northern and
northeast regions have outpaced growth from richer states in the
south and southeast for the last two years as social programs
and a higher minimum wage increased disposable income for the
poor, Sussumu Honda, head of the national supermarkets
association, said in an interview June 2.  
 Brazil’s supermarket sales rose a record 15 percent in
March from a year earlier, according to data from the country’s
statistics agency. The increased demand means that supermarkets
in remote areas have had difficulty keeping products on the
shelves as suppliers are unable to meet orders, Honda said.  
 Economic Growth  
 Latin America’s biggest economy expanded 9 percent in the
first quarter, the fastest annual growth rate since 1995, led by
domestic demand and investments, the statistics agency said last
week. Policy makers raised the benchmark interest rate for the
second time this year to 10.25 percent last week to keep the
economy from overheating.  
 Nestle sells  3,950 products  in “popularly positioned”
formats designed for low-income consumers. Smaller packs allow
poor consumers to afford branded goods like richer shoppers
rather than turn to generic alternatives. The company often adds
nutrients such as iron, zinc, iodine and vitamin A to address
deficiencies among the poor.  
 The Swiss company has a team of 7,000 saleswomen who peddle
packs of Nestle goods door-to-door in Brazilian slums. In
Indonesia, Nestle cut out middlemen and began shipping directly
to wholesalers to expand its reach to consumers among the
country’s 17,000 islands.  
 Unilever  
 Nestle has forecast  global sales  from such products
eventually reaching 20 billion Swiss francs ($18 billion) from
8.8 billion francs last year.  Unilever , which sells smaller
sizes of its products, such as Seda shampoo, in Brazil, already
gets half its sales from developing countries.  
 “Unilever is very strong in Brazil and has been there a
long time, and is used to getting poorer consumers in rural
areas,” said  James Amoroso , a food industry consultant based in
Walchwil, Switzerland. “It’s obviously more expensive to
establish yourself before the retail distribution is there, and
this is what Nestle is trying to do.”  
 Nestle had 2009 food and beverage sales growth in emerging
markets of 8.5 percent, more than double the rate of its total
business. The company has said it aims to boost the proportion
of sales from developing countries to 45 percent in a decade
from 35 percent now.  
 Nestle isn’t the only one to take to water transport in the
Amazon.  Banco Bradesco SA , Brazil’s second-biggest bank by
market value, started to offer banking services in December via
the Solimoes River, also in the Amazon. Bradesco made 700 new
clients after six months, Director  Odair Afonso Rebelato  said.  
 “These clients don’t want to be labeled as poor,”
Rebelato said. “They want the same products as everybody
else.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nestle SA's supermarket boat sits docked at the Port of Belem. Photographer: Marcia Zoet/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Clerks work inside Nestle SA's supermarket boat. Photographer: Marcia Zoet/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
