-- New Zealand Hails China Trade Accord `Success' as Vice President Xi Visits
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-06-17T05:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/new-zealand-hails-china-trade-accord-success-as-vice-president-xi-visits.html

          
          
             New Zealand said its free trade
agreement with China is a “success story” as the Asian
nation’s Vice President  Xi Jinping  began a three-day visit.  
 China has overtaken the U.S. and Japan to become New
Zealand’s second-largest trading partner behind Australia since
the accord was signed in 2008, Trade Minister  Tim Groser  said in
an e-mailed statement today. Xi arrived in Auckland today and is
to attend a dinner with Prime Minister  John Key  tonight.  
 The trade pact, which eliminates tariffs on 96 percent of
exports to China by 2019, has already led to a 60 percent drop
in tax paid on New Zealand wine shipments and a 34 percent
reduction for kiwifruit, according to Groser. Exports to the
world’s fastest-growing major economy were worth NZ$3 billion
($2.1 billion), about a third of which was dairy produce.  
 “The FTA provides a platform for our exporters to expand
their presence in the Chinese market,” Groser said. “It gives
us a decisive head start in a competitive and tough market.”  
 In addition to commodity exports, China is New Zealand’s
largest provider of foreign students and the fourth-biggest
source of tourists. China supplied more than NZ$6 billion of
goods last year, according to the New Zealand  Ministry of
Foreign Affairs & Trade .  
 The nations established diplomatic relations in 1972 and
their free trade agreement took effect from Oct. 2008.  
 Xi called for more cooperation between China and New
Zealand, according to comments reported by China’s official
Xinhua News Agency today.  
 The Vice President will spend three days in New Zealand
before a six-day visit to Australia, where he will participate
in trade cooperation and business forums and visit Melbourne,
Canberra and the Northern Territory.  
 Australia is the final stage of a four-nation trip that
included Laos and Bangladesh.  
 China is Australia’s largest trading partner, with annual
bilateral trade valued at about A$85 billion ($73 billion),
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  
 “Vice President Xi’s visit is a welcome opportunity to
discuss ways to maintain momentum in the strong economic and
trade relationship between Australia and China,” Rudd said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Wellington 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        