-- New Jersey Voters Pan Christie Millionaire-Tax Veto, Quinnipiac Poll Says
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-17T15:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/new-jersey-voters-pan-christie-millionaire-tax-veto-quinnipiac-poll-says.html

          
          
             Governor  Chris Christie  of  New
Jersey , the second-richest U.S. state by  income per person , ran
afoul of almost two of every three voters by vetoing a tax on
residents with incomes of more than $1 million, a survey shows.  
 The veto was the wrong thing to do, according to 61 percent
of voters in the  Quinnipiac University  survey released today.
Thirty-three percent of the 1,461 respondents agreed with the
Republican’s rejection of the levy.  
 “People always like a millionaire’s tax,”  Maurice Carroll , director of the Hamden, Connecticut, school’s polling
center, said in an interview. “Almost none of the deficit-
cutting things that have been talked about -- except the
millionaire’s tax that Christie vetoed -- win much support.”  
 A majority of New Jersey voters also said they oppose
reducing school funding by $820 million, firing 1,300 state
workers, closing psychiatric institutions and cutting municipal
aid -- all part of Christie’s plan to erase a projected $10.7
billion deficit for the fiscal year that begins next month.  
 Voters gave Christie, 47, a split rating on his job
performance, with 44 percent approval and 43 percent
disapproval. While 44 percent said he is a leader, 43 percent
said he’s a bully. The governor has clashed with unions for
teachers and other public employees and refused to reappoint the
state’s only black justice on its Supreme Court.  
 Life in Garden State  
 Seventy-five percent of those tallied said they are
dissatisfied with life in  New Jersey , the largest rate ever in
Quinnipiac surveys that go back to at least 1997.  
 Democrats who control New Jersey’s Assembly plan a June 21
vote in an attempt to override Christie’s veto of the income-tax
surcharge, Speaker  Sheila Oliver  said June 15. Assembly Minority
Leader  Alex DeCroce , a Republican from Parsippany, said June 15
that Republicans in his house won’t back the override attempt.  
 Christie’s spokesman  Michael Drewniak  said the poll won’t
sway the governor to rethink his opposition to the tax, which he
has called a “jobs killer.”  
 “We will be pleased to watch the Democrats vote on Monday
in favor of raising taxes for the second time in three weeks,”
Drewniak said today in an e-mailed statement. “They can add
that to their runaway record of raising taxes more than 150
times in eight years” of political control.  
 Tax Cap  
 On the issue of property taxes, survey respondents backed
Christie’s proposed constitutional amendment, 67 percent to 25
percent, that would cap annual increases at no more than 2.5
percent. Residents pay an average $7,281 a year in real-estate
taxes, the highest in the nation, according to state data.  
 “The message to lawmakers who oppose it is they do so at
their own political peril,” Drewniak said of the cap. “New
Jerseyans want this and recognize the need for it.”  
 The millionaire tax would raise the top personal-income
rate to 10.75 percent from 8.97 percent. Democrats lack the two-
thirds majority needed in each chamber to override Christie’s
veto. The measure passed on party-line votes of 46-32 in the
lower chamber and 23-17 in the Senate.  
 $637 Million  
 The bill would raise an estimated $637 million by renewing
a surcharge on about 16,000 filers with income above $1 million.
A temporary levy on incomes of more than $400,000 enacted last
year by former Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine  expired Dec. 31.  
 Under the present measure, a family of four with an income
of $1.2 million would pay an additional $11,598 in state taxes,
according to projections from the non-partisan Office of
Legislative Services.  
 “One year ago, the state of New Jersey imposed an income
tax increase as a ‘temporary’ solution to declining state
revenue,” Christie wrote in his  veto message . “Now they’ve
come back with another tax increase they claim to be
‘temporary.’ It is time to say no.”  
 Quinnipiac conducted its telephone survey from June 10-15.
It has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        