-- NYC Extends Open Invitation to Two-Week Piano Party (Correct)
-- Henry Goldman
-- 2010-06-18T12:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/new-york-city-extends-open-invitation-to-two-week-piano-party.html

          
          
             (Corrects penultimate paragraph of story published June 17
to say U.K.-based.)  
 New York City is placing pianos in
60 parks and other public spaces throughout the city and
inviting anyone to decorate and play them.  
 The two-week project, dubbed “Play Me, I’m Yours,” kicks
off June 21 with a one-day music festival to feature 1,000 free
performances citywide. Artists, volunteers and any member of the
public may decorate the street pianos and will be encouraged to
play them, Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s office said in a news
release.  
 “It doesn’t matter if you’re a world-class virtuoso like
Beethoven or a guy who took one year of lessons like Bloomberg,
just sit down and let your fingers do the talking,” the mayor
said in a statement prepared for a news conference today at
Gantry Plaza State Park in Long Island City, across the East
River from Manhattan in the borough of Queens, where a piano
will be installed.  
 It’s the latest public art display conjured up by the
administration of Bloomberg, who in 2005 drew millions to a
Central Park transformed by artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude
into a maze of 7,500 saffron-colored banners called “The
Gates.” In 2008 he helped Olafur Eliasson create “New York
City Waterfalls,” four cascades as high as 120 feet (37 meters)
that adorned and illuminated New York harbor.  
 The pianos will be cared for by “piano buddies,”
volunteers from community organizations, while they are
installed in public plazas and parks. At the end of the project,
the pianos will be donated to local schools and hospitals
selected by Sing for Hope, a group of 600 classical musicians,
photographers, Broadway performers and other artists who donate
time to benefit schools, hospitals and communities.  
 The mayor was to be joined at the news conference by Luke
Jerram, a U.K.-based artist who conceived of the public piano
installation, and Deputy Mayor Patricia Harris.  
 The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        