-- New Jersey Republican Lawmakers to Seek Vote on Christie Tax-Cap Measure
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-17T17:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/new-jersey-republicans-seek-vote-on-christie-proposal-for-property-tax-cap.html

          
          
             Republicans in New Jersey’s
Democrat-controlled Assembly said they will seek to force a vote
on Governor  Chris Christie ’s proposed constitutional amendment
that would cap property-tax growth at 2.5 percent a year.  
 The resolutions “have languished since being introduced on
May 20,” Assembly Republicans  Alex DeCroce  and  Jon Bramnick 
said today at a press conference in the Statehouse. Republicans
will make a motion at the June 21 Assembly voting session to
move the measures out of legislative committees, they said.  
 “While the Democratic leadership chooses to grandstand and
focus on increasing taxes, precious time is being wasted to
provide real relief to property-tax payers,” said DeCroce, the
Assembly Republican leader.  
 DeCroce said the tax-cap proposal needs to be approved by
early August for it to appear before voters on the November
ballot as a proposed constitutional amendment. The resolutions,
if moved out of committees, would be subject to a public hearing
prior to legislative votes.  
 Christie, a Republican who took office Jan. 19, is seeking
$10 billion of spending reductions in his $29.3 billion  budget 
for next fiscal year. He has said his constitutional amendment
is the best way to check the nation’s highest property-tax
bills, which averaged $7,281 in 2009, according to state  data .  
 Democrat Votes Needed  
 “This is urgent and necessary,” Christie’s spokesman
 Michael Drewniak  said in an interview. “What we don’t want is
for the Legislature to just sit on their hands on this.”  
 In order to move the tax-cap bills forward on June 21,
Republicans will need at least eight Democratic votes in the
Assembly, their spokesman Richard Savner said in an interview.
DeCroce said he isn’t sure his party can convince that many
lawmakers to cross the aisle, and Democratic leaders haven’t
responded to his attempts to discuss the matter.  
 “I do believe they understand how important this is to
taxpayers and they’ll fear that if they don’t move it they’ll be
seen as obstructionists,” said Assemblyman  Domenick DiCicco , a
Republican from Sewell who sponsors the cap and a constitutional
2.5 percent limit on state spending increases. “This is real
property-tax relief. People have wanted that for 20 years.”  
 Summer Session  
 Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver , a Democrat from East Orange
who controls the chamber’s agenda, last month said she would
call a special summer legislative session focused on the cap and
Christie’s 33-point plan to lower real estate levies. The
package also would allow towns to opt out of civil-service laws
and set limits on raises and benefits for public workers.  
 Democrats in the Assembly “will examine the governor’s
plan when it can get the full attention it deserves -- not
during the crucial days of the finalization of a Republican
budget that taxes working families,” spokesman Tom Hester said.  
 “Assembly Democrats have made clear they’re willing to work
with the governor on his reform proposals, but what’s needed is
a reasonable and in-depth discussion based on facts,” Hester
said in an e-mail. “We will do this right.”  
 Democratic Assemblyman  Paul Moriarty , from Washington
Township in Gloucester County, has introduced legislation to
institute the cap by statute rather than writing it into the
state constitution. DeCroce said Republicans won’t back that
plan because they feel a cap should go before voters and
structured so that future lawmakers can’t easily eliminate them.  
 Busy Voting Session  
 Democrats, the majority party in both legislative houses,
plan to hold an Assembly vote on June 21 to override Christie’s
May 20 veto of a measure that would extend an income-tax
surcharge on earnings of more than $1 million. Senate President
 Stephen Sweeney , a West Deptford Democrat, said his house would
take up the override “immediately” if it passes the Assembly.  
 Democrats seek to raise $637 million to restore Christie’s
proposed cuts to property-tax rebates for the elderly. The
governor and lawmakers face a constitutional deadline to pass a
balanced budget before the July 1 start of the next fiscal year.  
 The Senate voted 23-17 for the surcharge along party lines
last month; the Assembly vote was 46-32, with one member of each
party absent. Christie vetoed the measure minutes after it was
approved. Democrats lack the two-thirds majority needed to
override his veto without support from at least seven Assembly
Republicans.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        