-- News Corp. to Face `Drawn-Out' Probe of BSkyB Acquisition, Lawyers Say
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-06-17T13:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/news-corp-to-face-drawn-out-regulatory-probe-of-bskyb-deal-lawyers-say.html

          
          
             News Corp. ’s forecast that it will
take at least six months to win clearance of its proposed
takeover of pay-TV provider  British Sky Broadcasting Plc 
suggests a difficult review ahead by regulators.  
 The film, television and newspaper company can expect
approval after an extended probe by the European Union, a bid
for control of the process by Britain’s antitrust regulator and
possible intervention by U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  on
behalf of the public, lawyers said.  
 “There will be a drawn-out review,”  David Strang , who
heads the competition practice at law firm Barlow Lyde & Gilbert
LLP in London, said in a phone interview today. “There are
novel issues involving the media that must be dealt with.”  
 News Corp., the owner of  The Wall Street Journal  and the
Twentieth Century Fox film studio, offered 7.8 billion-pounds
($11.5 billion) for the 61 percent of BSkyB it doesn’t already
own, setting the stage for the biggest acquisition in the
company’s history. BSkyB, the U.K.’s largest pay-TV provider,
said this week it rejected the initial offer as its independent
directors want the bid to be raised by at least 14 percent.  
 Before a deal is reached, the  European Commission  in
Brussels will examine how the combination might affect the media
market among the EU’s 27 member countries. An extended “phase
two” investigation can take six months and concessions might be
made to win approval, said Strang, who isn’t involved in the
deal.  
 News Corp. spokeswoman  Alice Macandrew  didn’t immediately
return a call for comment. BSkyB spokesman  Robert Fraser 
declined to comment.  
 Full Control  
 Analyst  Alexander Wisch  of Standard & Poor’s Equity
Research said News Corp. wants to take full control of BSkyB to
enhance its ability to cut costs through other European pay-TV
assets. In December, News Corp. raised its stake in Sky
Deutschland AG, Germany’s biggest pay-TV service, to more than
45 percent. In Italy, News Corp. controls local pay-TV company
Sky Italia SpA.  
 The case will become more contentious once Britain’s
antitrust regulator, the  Office of Fair Trading , asks the EU
body to cede control of the approval process, said  Robert Bell ,
a competition lawyer at Speechly Bircham in London.  
 “If it were just about U.K. media interests, I think it
would be a very clear decision, but here you’ve got substantial
interests in other European countries,” Bell said today in a
phone interview. “There are very good reasons why the
Commission may want to retain control of this.”  
 EU Referral  
 If the EU refers a case back to the U.K.,  the OFT  has about
nine weeks to decide on approval.  
 “It’s too early to say whether this would be looked at
under the U.K. merger regime,” OFT spokesman Frank Shepherd said 
in an interview.  
 Regardless of which regulator handles the case, the
merger’s effects on the dissemination of information by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. will draw the most scrutiny and prompt the
U.K.’s Cable to assert himself, according to attorneys.  
 If the OFT gets the case, and Cable intervenes, British
communications watchdog Ofcom will also be drawn into the probe,
the lawyers said.  
 In the U.K., News Corp. also owns the country’s biggest
tabloid, The Sun, which backed the Conservative party of Prime
Minister  David Cameron  in Britain’s general election. It also
owns the Times and Sunday Times newspapers.  
 “Even if the European Commission allows the deal, the U.K.
government may still impose conditions in order to protect
national legitimate interests, such as the plurality of the
media,” said  Ian Ferguson , a technology lawyer at the firm
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP in London.  
 Attorneys generally agreed News Corp.’s bid for full
control of BSkyB will eventually win approval because Murdoch
already owns 39 percent of the broadcaster and his influence on
the company is already in place.  
 “The current shareholding already gives them control,”
Strang said of News Corp. “The competition between them has
already ceased to exist, more or less.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        