-- No Decisions by Senate Democrats in BP Oil Spill Legislation, Reid Says
-- Lisa Lerer
-- 2010-06-17T22:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/no-decisions-by-senate-democrats-in-bp-oil-spill-legislation-reid-says.html

          
          
             Senate Democrats are split over a
plan to charge power plants and refineries a price for putting
carbon dioxide into the atmosphere as President  Barack Obama 
prepares to bring Republicans into talks on energy legislation
that responds to the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Democrats met today to discuss whether the oil spill
legislation should have a carbon-pricing plan to boost the
development of alternatives to fossil fuels or a different plan
that requires utilities to buy more electricity from renewable
sources like wind farms and solar panels.  
 The 59-member Democratic caucus is split between senators
who support “lots of carbon pricing” and others who want
“little or none,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  told
reporters after the meeting. Both a carbon price and a renewable
mandate will aid “clean energy” production and Democrats are
still weighing “what can get the best bang for our buck,” Reid
said.  
 Obama said this week that the spill, caused by a fatal
April 20 explosion on a BP-leased rig in the Gulf, should spur
new laws to “change how we produce and use energy.” He didn’t
insist that the Senate approve legislation passed by the House
last year with a cap-and-trade system in which companies buy and
sell a declining number of carbon dioxide allowances.  
 Obama said he was open to “other ideas and approaches from
either party” and will host a group of Senate Democrats and
Republicans next week at the White House for talks on the energy
bill.  
 Diverse Standard  
 One of the Republicans invited to the White House talks,
planned for June 23, Indiana Senator  Richard Lugar , recently
proposed a “diverse energy standard” that would classify new
nuclear reactors and coal-fired power plants that capture and
store their carbon dioxide emissions as clean sources like wind
farms and solar panels.  
 Lugar said this week that his legislation, which has the
support of Republican senators  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina
and  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, could be merged with legislation
from the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that’s
competing for Democratic support with the cap-and-trade bill.  
 The energy committee’s bill includes a national renewable
electricity standard that requires utilities to buy 15 percent
of their electricity from renewable sources such as wind, solar
and geothermal power plants by 2021.  
 Reid told reporters today he wants Senate Democrats to meet
again next week to discuss the energy bill, which he described
as “a work in progress.”  
 ‘No Consensus’  
 Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat, said after
the meeting she supports the carbon cap-and-trade legislation
unveiled last month by Senators  John Kerry , a Massachusetts
Democrat and  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent.  
 Still, there’s “no consensus” on whether the energy bill
should include cap-and-trade, and if the carbon-pricing plan
were included it probably wouldn’t get the 60 votes routinely
required to pass major legislation through the Senate.  
 “I would support it; I don’t see 60 votes for it,”
Feinstein said.  
 Senate Democrats have to decide whether they want a
“strong” energy bill that puts a price on carbon dioxide and
other greenhouse gases that scientists have linked to climate
change or a “weak” bill that doesn’t, Lieberman told
reporters.  
 Still, Lieberman said he and Kerry are willing to discuss
changes to their plan to win new support.  
 “There’s a sign outside our office that says ‘open to
tinkering,’” Lieberman said. “This is not the Ten
Commandments, it’s a proposal.”  
 Agnostic  
 Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , who said yesterday that Democrats who
voted for the House cap-and-trade legislation might be unwilling
to support a Senate energy bill that doesn’t include greenhouse
gas limits, told reporters today she’s “fairly agnostic about
the means” that lawmakers choose to cut U.S. oil imports and
fossil-fuel consumption.  
 “What we want, though, is to have a result,” said Pelosi,
a California Democrat.  
 The House cap-and-trade bill “would not even get 50 votes
in the Senate, much less 60,” Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine
Republican, told reporters. Collins helped Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat, write a rival carbon-pricing
plan to the Kerry-Lieberman proposal.  
 Cantwell’s proposal, which was also discussed at today’s
meeting of Senate Democrats, probably doesn’t have 60 votes
right now either, Collins said.  
 If there aren’t enough votes to get a carbon-pricing plan
into the Senate energy bill, then it’s likely Democrats will
toughen the current 15 percent renewable electricity standard in
the energy committee’s bill, Cantwell told reporters.  
 “There’s so many different ways the puzzle fits
together,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        