-- Norway Oil Workers, Firms Reach Wage Agreement, Averting North Sea Strike
-- Marianne Stigset
-- 2010-06-17T06:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/norway-oil-workers-firms-reach-wage-agreement-averting-north-sea-strike.html

          
          
             Norwegian offshore oil workers
reached an agreement with employers averting a planned strike at
platforms operated by  Statoil ASA  and Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  
 Unions representing oil workers and the Norwegian Oil
Industry Association, which represents employers, agreed to a
government mediated solution today at 6 a.m., the association
said in an e-mailed  statement . The talks went to mediation this
week after dialogue broke off on May 6.  
 “The negotiations were demanding, but we’re satisfied with
having reached an agreement,”  Jan Hodneland , head negotiator
for the employers, said in a statement.  
 The unions had called an initial strike at three platforms
on the Draugen and Gullfaks fields as well as offshore hotels at
the Ekofisk, Valhall and Snorre fields. Draugen has output of
about 43,000 barrels a day and Gullfaks, which is partially shut
because of a depressurized well, has production of about 76,000
barrels a day, according to the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate.  
 The workers are represented by Industry Energy, Safe and
the Norwegian Organization of Managers and Executives. While
Safe and Industry Energy have accepted the wage agreement, the
managers’ union will present the agreement to their members for
a vote, spokesman Sverre Simen Hov said by telephone. The vote
is expected to be held over the next week and a final response
will be sent to the employers by July 8.  
 “You could still have” a strike, Hov said. “However, the
results of the negotiations are unanimously supported by the
negotiation committee for the Norwegian Organization of Managers
and Executives, so there’s a minimal risk of it.”  
 The union had said it would take 110 members out on strike
should an agreement not be reached.  
 Norway’s oil production, including natural gas liquids and
condensate, is estimated at 1.87 million barrels a day in 2010,
according to the Petroleum and Energy Ministry. The country is
the world’s sixth-biggest supplier of crude and also second
biggest exporter of natural gas.  
 Platform C at Gullfaks has been shut since May 20 because
of unstable pressure in a well.  
 The groups were disputing wage increases primarily for
cleaning crews at the facilities. The Industry Energy union has
demanded wages for cleaners be on par with the pay of other
offshore workers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        