-- Oasis Petroleum Rises After Second-Biggest 2010 IPO
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-06-17T18:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/oasis-petroleum-raises-588-million-in-second-biggest-u-s-initial-offer.html

          
          
             Oasis Petroleum Inc.  advanced in its
first day of trading after raising $588 million selling shares
at the midpoint of its forecast price range in the second-
biggest U.S. initial public offering this year.  
 The Houston-based drilling and exploration company with
oilfields in North Dakota and Montana climbed  6 percent  to
$14.84 at 2:29 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading. Oasis
Petroleum sold 42 million shares at $14 each, according to a
statement yesterday.  
 The sale came after  CBOE Holdings Inc.  and  BroadSoft Inc. 
priced offerings within their forecast range this week and the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  erased its loss for the year. At
least 34 companies worldwide had postponed or withdrawn IPOs
since the beginning of May as concern the European debt crisis
would curb the global economic recovery sent the S&P 500 down as
much as 14 percent from its 2010 high.  
 “The market’s been at least stable, even had a pretty
decent move up from its lows,” said  Scott Billeadeau , who helps
oversee $19 billion at Fifth Third Asset Management in
Minneapolis and bought shares of CBOE. “And Oasis was unique.
It’s oil exposed and has a seasoned management team.”  
 Morgan Stanley of New York and Zurich-based  UBS AG  managed
Oasis Petroleum’s sale, which was the biggest U.S. deal of 2010
after  Sensata Technologies Holding NV’s  $654 million offering in
March, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company is backed by
EnCap Investments LP, a Houston-based private-equity firm.  
 ‘Unconventional’ Deposits  
 Oasis Petroleum  focuses on developing and extracting
“unconventional” oil and natural-gas deposits, according to
its filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. It owns
rights to 292,000 acres of land in North Dakota and Montana, 85
percent of which has not been developed, the filing showed.  
 The company plans to spend $220 million on drilling and
supporting activities in 2010, more than double the $89 million
in 2009. Oasis Petroleum said it will use proceeds from the
offering to fund its exploration program and repay debt.  
 The IPO came eight weeks after a rig leased by London-based
 BP Plc  exploded in the Gulf of Mexico, triggering the worst oil
spill in U.S. history. President  Barack Obama  on May 27 extended
a moratorium on deepwater offshore drilling permits and said
yesterday that BP will put $20 billion into a compensation fund.  
 “What’s happening in the Gulf and the moratorium on
offshore drilling, there’s going to be overhang with the deep-
sea drilling,” said Darren Fabric, managing director at
Chicago-based IPOX Capital Management LLC.  
 Relative Value  
 The IPO valued Oasis Petroleum at 2.19 times net tangible
book value, a measure of shareholder equity that excludes assets
that can’t be sold in liquidation. That’s 53 percent higher than
the median ratio of 1.43 for 61 oil refining and marketing
companies worldwide, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 While Oasis sold shares within its forecast range,  Higher
One Holdings Inc.  cut the size of its IPO by 55 percent
yesterday.  Motricity Inc.  reduced its deal by 40 percent today,
a filing with the SEC showed. The Bellevue, Washington-based
company will now offer 5.9 million shares at $10 to $11 each.  
 “Capital markets are very tentative right now,” said
 Christopher Turner , head of capital markets at New York-based
private-equity firm Warburg Pincus LLC, which oversees about $30
billion. “Windows are opening and shutting pretty rapidly based
on idiosyncratic events and macroeconomic trends.”  
 Higher One, which processes financial-aid payments and
provides banking services to college students, raised $108
million yesterday after seeking $242.3 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg and an SEC filing showed. The New Haven, Connecticut-
based company’s sale was managed by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   
 The  shares  advanced 19 percent to $14.34 on the NYSE today.  
 Yale Students  
 Founded in 2000 by three students at Yale University,
Higher One serves more than 650 campuses and about 4.6 million
students. The company plans on using the proceeds from the sale
to repay debt and fund general corporate expenses, develop new
products and for possible acquisitions, its SEC filing showed.  
 About 88 percent of Higher One’s revenue in 2009 came from
interchange fees, ATM fees, non-sufficient fund fees and other
banking fees, according to the filing. The U.S. Senate passed a
bill in May that would limit fees generated by debit cards.  
 “Investors were likely concerned with the pending changes
in banking regulation that relates to debit-card fees,” said
 Michael Gaiden , a Chicago-based securities analyst at
Morningstar Inc. “It’s easy to spook investors in an otherwise
new story where there are a lot of unknowns, especially with
market conditions overall being tepid.”  
 CBOE, the last major U.S. securities exchange owned by its
members, surged 12 percent on June 15 after the Chicago-based
company completed its transformation into a public company with
a $339 million IPO. Gaithersburg, Maryland-based  BroadSoft  fell
7.8 percent yesterday after selling $67.5 million of shares.  
 Goldman Sachs led CBOE’s sale, while Goldman and  Jefferies
Group Inc.  of New York managed BroadSoft’s IPO.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        