-- Obama May Get Political Boost From Pressing BP on Fund
-- Hans Nichols
-- 2010-06-17T16:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/obama-may-get-political-boost-by-pushing-bp-to-set-up-20-billion-aid-fund.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  scored a
political victory by pressuring BP Plc to commit $20 billion for
damages from an environmental disaster that’s weighing on his
presidency as the company struggles to contain thousands of
barrels of oil flowing into the Gulf of Mexico each day.  
 BP’s agreement yesterday to establish the compensation
fund, and the London-based oil company’s decision to temporarily
suspend  dividends  as Gulf residents begin filing
claims, gave Obama an opportunity to look like he was directing
events instead of reacting to them, said  Allan Lichtman , a
political history professor at American University in
Washington.  
 “Obama has been behind the curve on the oil spill since
its onset,” Lichtman said. “Finally, he may be catching up.”  
 Even some critics who praised Obama for getting BP’s
commitment to multibillion-dollar damage payments say the
president’s longer-term outlook depends on how soon BP controls
the oil spill and how much crude tars Gulf beaches and marshes.  
 “You have to give the president credit where credit is
due,” Florida Republican Senator  George Lemieux  said on CNN,
lauding the BP escrow account. “He did a good job on that. Now
what we have to do is really focus on keeping the oil from
coming ashore in the first place.”  
 Words ‘Not Enough’  
 BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg , summoned to the White
House for meetings yesterday that included a private 25-minute
Oval Office session with Obama, apologized for the biggest oil
spill in U.S. history and promised the company would take
responsibility.  
 “We made it clear to the president that words are not
enough,” Svanberg said. “We understand that we will and we
should be judged by our actions.”  
 BP’s shares  soared 6.7 percent to 359.7 pence today in
London. The stock has dropped 45 percent since the April 20
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf that
killed 11 workers and triggered the spill.  
 BP’s Chief Financial Officer  Byron Grote  said yesterday in
a conference call with investors and analysts that the company’s
actions on the dividend and escrow account likely “will create
a calming effect” on debt holders.  
 Obama faces a challenge calming a public distressed by
daily reports about the environmental crisis, said  Charlie Cook ,
publisher of the Cook Political Report in Washington. A
USA Today/Gallup Poll released June 15 showed 71 percent of
adults surveyed said Obama hasn’t been tough enough on BP.  
 ‘Long Slog’  
 “This is a long slog for the president,” Cook said. White
House officials “just have to grit their teeth, try their best
and tough it out,” he said. “There is no single thing they can
say or do to fix this horrible problem, both the spill and the
ensuing political problems.”  
 The BP accord drew fire from the ranking Republican on the
House Energy and Commerce Committee, who said the fund amounted
to “a $20 billion shakedown.”  
 “I’m ashamed of what happened in the White House,”
Representative  Joe Barton  of Texas said today as the energy
panel began a hearing on the oil spill. “It is a tragedy of the
first proportion that a private corporation can be subjected to
what I would characterize as a shakedown.”  
 Barton spoke in opening statements before testimony to the
committee by  BP  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward .  
 White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  called on
lawmakers from both parties to “repudiate” Barton’s comments.  
 ‘Shameful’  
 “What is shameful is that Joe Barton seems to have more
concern for big corporations that caused this disaster than the
fishermen, small business owners and communities whose lives
have been devastated,” Gibbs said in a statement.  
 After a four-hour White House meeting yesterday between
administration officials and BP executives, Obama said the
escrow fund “will provide substantial assurance” that claims
will be paid. “The people of the Gulf have my commitment that
BP will meet its obligations to them,” Obama said.  
 Obama’s top energy and climate adviser,  Carol Browner , said
the fund was a “White House-driven agreement” that doesn’t cap
BP’s liability and won’t prevent individuals and businesses from
suing the company.  
 It will be administered by lawyer  Kenneth Feinberg , 64, who
has overseen executive pay at companies that received federal
bailouts and administered the compensation fund for
victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  
 Four Trips  
 Obama has traveled to the Gulf four times since the spill
started. After returning from Mississippi, Alabama and Florida
on June 15, he said BP would be held responsible for
“recklessness” in the Gulf.  
 BP has spent about $1.6 billion on containing and cleaning
up the spill so far. The company’s spending for cleanup and
liabilities may reach $40 billion,  Standard Chartered Plc 
estimated last week.  
 The government has increased its estimate of the oil leak
to 35,000 to 60,000 barrels a day.  
 Based on the low end of the estimate, BP well may have
leaked 1.99 million barrels so far, exceeding 262,000 barrels
spilled by the Exxon Valdez in 1989 in Alaska, according to
statistics from the  American Petroleum Institute.   
 The BP accident prompted Obama to declare a six-month
moratorium on deepwater offshore oil drilling and, under the
agreement reached yesterday, BP will contribute $100 million to
a fund for oil workers who lost jobs because of the action.  
 Obama said he’s confident the company will be able to pay
claims.  
 “BP is a strong and viable company, and it is in all of
our interests that it remain so,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama, right, meets with Carl-Henric Svanberg, chairman of BP Plc, in the Oval Office of the White House. Photographer: Pete Souza/White House via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Hans Nichols reports on President Barack Obama's national address on Tuesday about BP Plc's oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Obama said the spill is an urgent call for action to cut U.S. dependence on fossil fuels and vowed that BP will be required to spend whatever is needed to repair damage caused by the company’s "recklessness." The oil gushing from a damaged BP well in the Gulf is threatening the shores of four states, and a team of scientists yesterday raised the estimate of the leak rate to 35,000 to 60,000 barrels a day. Bloomberg's Mark Barton also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee from Washington about President Barack Obama’s response to the oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico, and the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling.
     Obama said BP Plc's will put $20 billion over four years into an oil spill compensation fund that will be independently administered by lawyer Kenneth Feinberg. The fund won’t cap BP’s liability for cleanup costs and economic damage, Obama said after he and some of his top advisers met with BP executives at the White House, and it won’t supersede the rights of individuals or states to sue the company. The company also will contribute $100 million to a fund to help support unemployed oil rig workers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
