-- Lockheed Would Assume More Risk for F-35 Fighter Cost Increases, CEO Says
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-17T15:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/lockheed-would-assume-more-risk-for-f-35-fighter-cost-increases-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Lockheed Martin Corp.  said it would
assume more risk for any cost increases on the next trial lot of
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter jets, the most-expensive U.S. weapons
program ever.  
 Negotiations with the U.S. Defense Department are “weeks
away” from completion on the next batch of 32 F-35s, Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Stevens  said today. The new contract
would be for a fixed price plus incentives and would come two
years earlier than planned, Stevens said.  
 “We are doing that because of the confidence we have in
the program,” he told reporters at a briefing in Arlington,
Virginia.  
 A contract for a fixed price plus incentives means
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed may have to absorb some of any
increases for a program whose cost has surged 65 percent since
2002 to $382.4 billion. Defense companies usually work on a so-
called cost-plus basis during a weapon’s development, with
taxpayers paying for any growth in expenses.  
 Lockheed also will accelerate the next phase of the
contracting, when it takes on all the risk for cost increases,
said Steve O’Bryan, vice president of the F-35 program. He
didn’t say when that would occur.  
 Lockheed  fell 69 cents to $80.52 at 11:37 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. A decline for the shares today
would snap a streak of seven straight gains.  
 Test Delays  
 Development and combat testing of the F-35 is more than
four years behind schedule. The warplane is designed to be used,
with modifications, among the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps,
instead of having each service buy its own aircraft.  
 Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has said the U.S. may
withhold from Lockheed as much as $614 million in fees because
of delays on the warplane, pending improvements in flight tests.
Stevens said today he expects that Lockheed still will have the
opportunity to earn all of those withheld payments.  
 The first unit of F-35 jets won’t be deployed by the Air
Force until 2015, two years late, according to the service.
Deliveries to the Marines are on schedule for 2012 and to the
Navy by 2014.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Arlington, Virginia, at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .
 Tony Capaccio  in Arlington, Virginia, at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        