-- Crude Oil Futures Trade Near Six-Week High as Dollar Weakens Against Euro
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-06-17T09:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/oil-falls-from-six-week-high-after-u-s-supplies-rise-housing-starts-drop.html

          
          
             Oil traded near a six-week high as a
weaker dollar offset the impact of rising U.S. inventories.  
 Crude fell earlier after a government report yesterday
showed U.S. crude supplies unexpectedly grew last week on lower
refinery operations, while a  decline  in U.S. home construction
fanned concern over the economic recovery. The euro rose to
$1.2332 from $1.2311, increasing the appeal of commodity
investments.  
 “The flight from crude by large speculators is over, and
with long-term fundamentals still appealing, it’s probably time
for a pause,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst with VTB
Capital in London. “The market is ignoring fundamentals right
now and trading on macroeconomic factors.”  
 Crude for July delivery was down 54 cents at $77.13 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 10 a.m. London time. Brent crude for August settlement rose
24 cents to $78.38 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London.  
 Oil settled at its highest since May 5 in New York
yesterday as motor fuels gained on signs of higher consumption
during the peak U.S. driving season, which began with the
Memorial Day weekend in late May. Gasoline  demand  rose 1.6
percent to 9.34 million barrels a day, the highest level since
the week ended Aug. 28.  
 Gasoline stockpiles  fell  636,000 barrels to 218.3 million
in the week ended June 11, the lowest level this year, according
to the Energy Department. Analysts were split on whether
supplies gained or declined.  
 Refinery Runs  
 Refiners cut processing runs by 0.5 percent and capacity
utilization declined to 87.9 percent. The plants increased their
output of gasoline, contributing to the build in stockpiles.  
 “The gasoline simple yield jumped 2.1 percent to 62
percent which boosted production by 162,000 barrels a day
despite a reduction in refinery runs,”  Sung Yoo , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a report yesterday.  
 Crude inventories gained as overall U.S. imports climbed
1.7 percent to 9.6 million barrels a day, the Energy Department
said yesterday. Supplies brought into the mid-continent  region 
jumped to a record 1.8 million barrels a day, the report showed.  
 “Inventories are generally still pretty high, but the oil
price has held up well relatively,” said  David Moore , a
commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd. in
Sydney. “Markets are still assuming a U.S. recovery, albeit an
uneven recovery road.”  
 Oil stockpiles rose to 363.1 million barrels last week.
Inventories at  Cushing , Oklahoma, the delivery point for the New
York crude futures, climbed by 194,000 barrels to 37.6 million.  
 Norway Strikes Averted  
 Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
diesel and heating oil, increased 1.8 million barrels to 156.6
million, the highest since the week to Jan. 22. A 1 million-
barrel gain was forecast.  
 In Norway, offshore oil workers reached an agreement with
employers, averting a planned strike at platforms operated by
Statoil ASA and Royal Dutch Shell Plc. Unions representing oil
workers and the Norwegian Oil Industry Association of employers
agreed to a government-mediated solution today at 6 a.m., the
association said in an e-mailed statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        