-- Thomas Cook Seeks to Buy German Travel Competitor, CEO Fontenla-Novoa Says
-- Holger Elfes
-- 2010-06-17T09:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/thomas-cook-seeks-to-buy-german-travel-competitor-ceo-fontenla-novoa-says.html

          
          
             Thomas Cook Group Plc , Europe’s
second-largest travel company, wants to make an acquisition in
Germany to boost sales to destinations where it lags behind
competitors, Chief Executive Officer  Manny Fontenla-Novoa  said.  
 The travel operator may spend more than 100 million euros
($123 million) if it finds a company that fits the bill
in Europe’s largest travel market, the CEO told reporters
in Frankfurt.  
 Thomas Cook ceded its second position in the German
package-tour market to Rewe Group last year, and both trail
 TUI Travel Plc , according to a survey by tourism magazine FVW.
Fontenla-Novoa declined to identify companies under
consideration for acquisition, though he said Thomas Cook isn’t
currently in talks with Oeger Group, a closely held specialist
in travel to Turkey.  
 “We are looking for an acquisition of a competitor in the
mainstream sector which is serving destinations where we are
less strong,” Fontenla-Novoa said late yesterday.  
 The company has spent about 450 million pounds ($660
million) on acquisitions since it went public in June 2007.
Negotiations to purchase a Russian competitor will probably
succeed “within weeks,” the CEO said.  
 Thomas Cook, based in Peterborough, England, is the most
 profitable  travel arranger in Germany, with an operating-profit
margin of 3.3 percent in the last fiscal year, Fontenla-Novoa
said.  
 Greek Recovery  
 Bookings for summer vacations in Greece have recovered in
recent weeks, the CEO said. The number of Greek trips from
Germany was down about 13 percent last week compared to the same
period a year earlier. Bookings to Greece from the U.K. are down
about 15 percent after recovering from a 25 percent drop.  
 Package-tour sales in the central Europe region, which
includes Germany, Austria and Switzerland, fell 8.9 percent to
700 million pounds in the first fiscal half through March,
Thomas Cook said May 13. The company’s overall sales declined
5 percent to 3.31 billion pounds. Thomas Cook’s holdings include
the Condor holiday carrier.  
 The travel company’s roots go back to 1841, when an English
cabinetmaker had the idea to charter a train to carry anti-
alcohol campaigners to a temperance meeting.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Frankfurt at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        