-- Tomato Prices Plunge as Florida Output Surge Follows January Freeze Damage
-- Elizabeth Campbell
-- 2010-06-17T19:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/tomato-prices-plunge-as-florida-output-surge-follows-january-freeze-damage.html

          
          
             Tomato prices have plunged 78 percent
since March as production rebounded in Florida, where a winter
freeze in January slowed crop growth and delayed the harvest,
government data show.  
 A 25-pound (11-kilogram) box of fresh, field-grown tomatoes
from Orlando cost $6.95 yesterday, compared with as much as
$31.95 on  March 1 , according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. An eight-day freeze in January destroyed about two-
thirds of the state’s crop. Growers replanted, and that fruit
began arriving in supermarkets last month, reviving supply.  
 “The glut hit the fan about mid-May” as “massive
amounts” of tomatoes were collected, said Gene McAvoy, the
director of the Hendry County extension office for the
University of Florida. “Growers tend to stagger plantings based
on their market projections. When you have a disaster that puts
everybody on the same wavelength, they all come in at once and
spoil that market timing.”  
 In south Florida, tomatoes that normally are marketed in
early to mid-April didn’t arrive until the second week of May,
McAvoy said. Supplies from other parts of the state came shortly
afterwards, and tomatoes from California have begun to arrive
this month, he said.  
 Losing Money  
 Growers aren’t very profitable and some are losing money,
said  Gary Lucier , an agricultural economist with the USDA’s
Economic Research Service in Washington. It costs $9 or $10 a
box to grow tomatoes, and some are selling their produce for
less, at $7 to $8 a box, he said.  
 “The weather basically compressed a market window, which
means all the volume that would be sold in eight weeks would be
sold in four weeks, which means low prices,” Lucier said.  
 The USDA will buy as much as $6 million of fresh tomatoes
for federal food-nutrition assistance programs partly to aid
Florida growers get “through the very difficult situation
caused by the freeze,” Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said
in a  statement  earlier this month.  
 Slower demand also is hurting prices, McAvoy said.
Customers “got out of the habit of buying tomatoes” during the
shortage earlier this year, when prices surged, he said.  
 Fresh tomatoes averaged $1.25 a pound at U.S. grocery
stores in the week through today, down 10 percent from a week
earlier, according to USDA figures.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in New York at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        