-- Honda's Supplier Strikes Highlight Bidding War for China Factory Workers
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-17T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/honda-motor-s-china-strikes-highlight-wage-bidding-war-for-factory-workers.html

          
          
             Workers at a  Honda Motor Co.  supplier
in Zhongshan, China, went on strike June 9 demanding higher
wages, yet it was employees at a maker of electric fans and gas
stoves three kilometers (1.9 miles) away that got a pay raise.  
 A factory owned by Xiaotian (Zhongshan) Industrial Co.
promised workers a monthly increase of at least 250 yuan,
excluding overtime, last week after employees at a  Honda Lock
(Guangdong) Co.  joint venture walked out. Wage negotiations at
the Honda Motor supplier are continuing after workers
temporarily ended their strike June 15.  
 Xiaotian Industrial decided to boost pay because “living
costs are higher now and it should help relieve some pressure on
 labor shortages ,” said Ms. Ou, a hiring manager at the Xiaotian
factory in Zhongshan, who declined to give her full name. The
company decided to raise wages before walkouts at Honda Lock and 
two other of the automaker’s suppliers in the last month, she 
said.  
 A bidding war for workers is heating up among manufacturers
in China as a shrinking pool of low-cost labor and rising living
costs put pressure on employers to raise wages. Strikes at
suppliers have disrupted production at Honda’s four factories
there, while Taiwanese electronics maker Foxconn Technology
Group said it will double salaries for its lowest-paid workers
after at least 10 Chinese employees killed themselves this year.  
 ‘Plenty of Factories’  
 “I would definitely get another job if I am not happy with
the pay increase,” said Du Jun, a 20-year-old worker at the
white-walled Honda Lock factory, who moved to the region from
his parents’ farm in Guangxi province last year. “There are
plenty of factories around here I can get a job from,” he said.  
 Toyota Motor Corp.  yesterday said production is continuing
as normal in China after a brief strike at a supplier ended.  
 The dispute took place at Tianjin Star Light Rubber and
Plastic Co., a Toyoda Gosei Co.-owned factory in Tianjin,
northern China, the automaker said.  
 Management and union leaders at the Honda Lock plant hope
to reach agreement in wage negotiations and prevent workers from
striking for a second time from today.  
 Honda shares dropped 0.8 percent to 2,736 yen in Tokyo
yesterday.  
 “Given the circumstances, proactively raising wages may be
the best practice. You nip it in the bud before you start having
turnover problems,” said David Abrahamson, project manager at
the  China Center for Labor and Environment .  
 Higher investment and improved wages in western China is
deterring workers from migrating, pushing up wages in more
industrialized regions like Guangdong, Abrahamson said by phone
from Shenzhen.  
 Lost Workers  
 Some factories in China are losing as many as 25 percent of
their workers a month, reflecting increased competition among
employers to hire workers, said Ian Spaulding, Hong Kong-based
managing director at Infact Global Partners, which advises
factory owners on China work practices.  
 More than 20 Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum
wages this year, the Shenzhen city government said on its
 website  last Wednesday. In Shenzhen, which raised minimum wages
an average of 15.8 percent, the government said higher pay will
help companies recruit workers and will boost consumption.  
 Competition for workers in southern China may intensify,
said  Koji Endo , a Tokyo-based auto analyst at Advanced Research
Japan. Guangdong is among the four largest car manufacturing
regions in the world, he said. Vehicle production capacity in
the area will grow 40 percent to 1.55 million units by 2012, as
the three Japanese automakers expand in the region, Endo
estimates.  
 Volkswagen Factory  
 On June 9, Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest carmaker, said it
will spend 520 million euros ($622 million) to add a new plant
in the province’s Foshan district as the country’s car demand
booms. The new factory, set to open in 2013, will join similar
plants in the area built by other global automakers such as
 Toyota Motor Corp ., the world’s largest car manufacturer, and
Japan’s Nissan Motor Co.  
 “Inflation keeps going up, life is tough,” said Luo
Zongming, a 28-year-old worker from Hunan who works at Honda
Lock’s factory in Zhongshan. “We can only expect more and more
people to go on strike around the country, it’s only reasonable
and inevitable.”  
 -- Liza Lin . With assistance from  Stephanie Wong ,  Mark Lee ,
 Takako Iwatani and Eva Woo . Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Kae Inoue .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at   llin15@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        