-- Hong Kong's Tsang Lost TV Debate on Democracy With Audrey Eu, Polls Show
-- Frederik Balfour
-- 2010-06-18T07:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/hong-kong-chief-tsang-says-opposition-to-blame-if-electoral-proposal-fails.html

          
          
             Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  lost a televised debate with barrister and opposition
leader  Audrey Eu  on plans to change the city’s electoral system,
polls showed.  
 Tsang said the proposal to change the way Hong Kong elects
lawmakers and the chief executive in 2012 would move the city
along the path to full democracy, and  accused  Eu’s side of
trying to stall the plan. “We’d rather stand still than take a
step backward,” Eu replied.  
 Seventy-one percent of respondents in two university
surveys said Eu won the debate, the South China Morning  Post  and
Standard newspapers said. Forty-five percent of people polled by
University of Hong Kong said they were “more opposed” to the
government’s proposals after the debate, while 20 percent said
they were more supportive, said the Post, which co-sponsored one
survey. No margin of error was given.  
 Eu’s pro-democracy group argues the central government in
Beijing’s package doesn’t go far enough to deliver democracy and
is stacked in favor of business groups dominating the so-called
functional constituencies that make up half the 60 seats in the
 Legislative Council . Tsang says opposition demands should be
addressed after the plan goes through.  
 “It’s obvious Audrey was the better performer,” said
 Joseph Cheng , professor of political science at the City
University of Hong Kong. Still, the debate probably won’t make
the government deliver changes to the proposal demanded by pro-
democracy groups, he said.  
 Public Protest  
 “For a harmonious society you need a fair system,” Eu
said during a speech at the Foreign Correspondents Club in Hong
Kong today. “But functional constituencies are causing problems,
they are the obstacle,” she said, describing them as an
“anchor” weighing Hong Kong people down.  
 “The anchor is put there not by the Hong Kong people but by
the central authorities with a string of broken promises as well
as by people with vested interests.”  
 The debate is also unlikely to have won over any of the 23
legislators who vowed to block the proposals, and may have been
aimed more at salvaging Tsang’s reputation with the central
government in Beijing,  Alan Leong , a lawmaker in Eu’s party said
before the debate. The package needs a two-thirds majority to
pass, unless China makes concessions.  
 LegCo  is to vote June 23 on the proposal, which would see
the number of lawmakers increased by 10. Five would be directly
elected and five would represent functional constituencies. The
number of Beijing appointees who elect the chief executive would
be increased from 800 to 1,200.  
 Tung Chee-hwa  
 Tsang’s predecessor  Tung Chee-hwa  stepped down from his
post in 2005, more than two years early, after a botched attempt
to push through separate China-sponsored constitutional changes
sparked street protests and a deadly virus harmed tourism.  
 Tsang’s own popularity has been slipping amid the wrangle
over elections, polls show.  
 On June 4, about 113,000 people attended a candlelight
vigil to mark the 21st anniversary of China’s crackdown on pro-
democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square, the largest number
since 1989 according to police estimates.  
 Several hundred people gathered in a park near yesterday’s
debate, cheering for Eu and booing Tsang. Police had set up a
visible security presence around nearby streets as a precaution.  
 Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in December told Tsang to
“handle constitutional development issues properly to ensure
social harmony.” Premier  Wen Jiabao  urged him to resolve
“deep-rooted contradictions in Hong Kong.”  
 Two Systems  
 One of those contradictions is the “one country, two
systems” formula  struck  when Britain handed the territory back
to China in 1997. While Hong Kong has multiple political parties
and more civil liberties than in mainland China, the timetable
for greater democracy was set by the National People’s Congress
Standing Committee in Beijing.  
 Eu is calling for universal suffrage in 2012, five years
earlier than China’s plans for letting the public vote for the
chief executive and eight years before planned direct elections
of all LegCo members.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frederik Balfour  in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chief Executive Donald Tsang, left, and Legislator Audrey Eu, right, take part in a photo call prior to a debate on constitutional reform in Hong Kong on June 17, 2010.  Photographer: Mike Clarke/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
