-- Hong Kong's Tsang Pins His Reputation on TV Debate Over Pace of Democracy
-- Frederik Balfour
-- 2010-06-17T04:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/hong-kong-s-tsang-pins-his-reputation-on-tv-debate-over-pace-of-democracy.html

          
          
             Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  tonight faces off in a televised  debate  with opposition
lawmaker  Audrey Eu  over China’s plans for changes to the city’s
electoral system in 2012.  
 The debate with the pro-democracy leader is unlikely to win
over any of the 23 legislators who vowed to block the proposals,
and may be aimed more at salvaging Tsang’s reputation with the
central government in Beijing, said  Alan Leong , a lawmaker in
Eu’s party.  
 “Beijing is evidently not willing to give genuine and true
universal suffrage to Hong Kong,” said Leong. “The purpose of
the debate is for Donald Tsang to demonstrate to Beijing that he
has done his utmost to get the 2012 package through.”  
 Eu’s pro-democracy group argues that China’s package
doesn’t go far enough to deliver full democracy and is stacked
in favor of business groups dominating the so-called functional
constituencies that make up half the 60 seats in the Legislative
Council.  
 LegCo  is to vote June 23 on the proposal, which would see
the number of lawmakers increased by 10. Five would be directly
elected and five would represent functional constituencies. The
number of Beijing appointees who elect the chief executive would
be increased from 800 to 1,200.  
 Tsang wants “to let the people have a chance to hear the
arguments on both sides and come to an informed decision,” his
spokesman Andy Ho said in an e-mail.  
 Public Protest  
 Tsang’s predecessor  Tung Chee-hwa  stepped down from his
post in 2005, more than two years early, after a botched attempt
to push through separate China-sponsored constitutional changes
sparked street protests and a deadly virus decimated tourism.  
 Tsang’s own popularity has been slipping amid the wrangle
over elections, polls show.  
 On June 4, about 113,000 people attended a candlelight
vigil to mark the 21st anniversary of the crackdown on pro-
democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square, the largest number
since 1989 according to police estimates.  
 Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in December told Tsang to
“handle constitutional development issues properly to ensure
social harmony.” Premier  Wen Jiabao  urged him to resolve
“deep-rooted contradictions in Hong Kong.”  
 Beijing’s Timetable  
 One of those contradictions is the “one country, two
systems” formula  struck  when Britain handed the territory back
to China in 1997. While Hong Kong has multiple political parties
and more civil liberties than in mainland China, the timetable
for greater democracy was set by the National People’s Congress
Standing Committee in Beijing.  
 Eu is calling for universal suffrage in 2012, five years
earlier than China’s plans for letting the public vote for the
chief executive and eight years before planned direct elections
of all LegCo members.  
 Twenty-three of the 60 LegCo members have already said
they’ll oppose the 2012 package, which needs a two-thirds
majority to pass, unless China makes concessions.  
 While the city’s lawmakers discuss issues ultimately
decided in Beijing, a growing number of Hong Kong’s 7 million
people are expressing frustration at issues such as growing
income inequality and air pollution.  
 “We are structured not like a city, but like a country,”
said  Christine Loh , Chief Executive Officer of Hong Kong-based
think tank  Civic Exchange . “All the stuff relating to city
planning, city design, city transport and things concerning
public health, dealing with markets, public space and gardens,
heritage preservation doesn’t dovetail very well.”  
 Unsatisfied Citizens  
 Results of a random survey of 934 households conducted by
the Hong Kong Transition project between June 4 and June 14
indicate a majority of the respondents “express dissatisfaction
with the Chief Executive’s performance,” said  Michael DeGolyer ,
a professor of government and international studies at  Hong Kong
Baptist University , who heads the study.  
 Sixty-three percent of respondents favored the abolition of
functional constituencies representing key industries such as
banking, law and manufacturing. That’s up from 55 percent of
those polled from May 6 to May 15.  
 “A lot of people are connecting the business domination of
the functional constituencies with unfair policies they are
experiencing,” said DeGolyer.  
 The number of people living in poverty in Hong Kong in the
first nine months of last year rose 19 percent, the South China
Morning Post reported May 12, citing government data.  
 Record Pollution  
 Pollution in Hong Kong soared off the scale on March 22 as
winds from sandstorms in northern China carried particles to
Hong Kong. The air quality had never been so poor.  
 The government denied the democracy debate is distracting
efforts in other areas. “The electoral problems are the most
pressing,” said Donald Lam, a spokesman for Tsang’s office.
“It doesn’t mean the government is ignoring other problems.”  
 In March, Secretary for the Environment  Edward Yau  said
Hong Kong  may accelerate replacement  of old buses, change
transit routes and set up low-emission zones to cut pollution.  
 Still, it will take almost a decade to eliminate outdated
buses from the city’s roads, he said.  
 “Our toxic air is the most damning symptom of our present
political system,” said  Joanne Ooi , chief executive officer of
independent advocacy group  Clean Air Network . “Although the
public near unanimously supports the aggressive clean-up of our
air, the government has consistently failed to act.”  
 Editors:  Ben Richardson ,  Dirk Beveridge .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frederik Balfour  in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hong Kong chief executive Donald Tsang. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
