-- Hong Kong's Jobless Rate Rises to 4.6% From 4.4%; First Gain in 11 Months
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-06-17T09:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/hong-kong-s-jobless-rate-rose-to-4-6-percent-from-4-4-percent-last-month.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s unemployment rate rose
for the first time in 11 months in May as more young people
entered the workforce and the uncertain global outlook made some
employers more cautious about hiring, the government said.  
 The  seasonally adjusted rate  for the three months ended May
31 rose to 4.6 percent from 4.4 percent in the three months
ended April, the government said today on its website. That was
higher than the estimates of all six economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News.  
 “The growth and job creation momentum of the outward-
facing Hong Kong economy look set to ease sharply,”  Joanne Yim ,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Hang Seng Bank Ltd., said before
today’s report. “The pace of moderation will depend on how
Europe’s sovereign crisis may unfold.”  
 The entry of graduates and school leavers into the labor
market as the summer holidays approach is putting pressure on
the job market,  Matthew Cheung , secretary for labor and welfare,
said in today’s release. The unemployment rate for 15-24 year-
olds rose to 11.1 percent from 10.2 percent, according to
today’s data.  
 “The euro zone debt crisis and its contagion also pose
uncertainties to the labor market,” Cheung said. “This will
bring pressure on the unemployment rate in the near future.”  
 Debt Crisis  
 The government is closely monitoring the sovereign debt
crisis in Europe, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said last week.
Still, the government may raise its full-year growth forecast in
August from the current 4 percent to 5 percent, he said.  
 The economy expanded 8.2 percent in the first quarter, the
fastest pace in four years, as exports and retail spending
rebounded from the global crisis.  
 Employers in Hong Kong expect “a favorable hiring
climate” in the third quarter, while about a fifth of those
surveyed plan to add workers in the coming three months,
Manpower Services (Hong Kong) Ltd. said on June 8, citing a
survey of 814 companies in the city.  
 Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services on June 11 maintained
its AA+ long-term credit rating on Hong Kong, citing the city’s
“above-average” economic growth potential.  
 UBS AG,  Standard Chartered Plc  and Morgan Stanley are among
companies that have announced plans to hire more people to help
Asia’s swelling ranks of millionaires manage their money. Wealth
in the Asia-Pacific region outside Japan is expected to grow at
twice the global rate, the Boston Consulting Group said June 11.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        