-- Hong Kong's Hang Seng Has Longest Winning Streak in 13 Months; Cnooc Gains
-- Anna Kitanaka
-- 2010-06-17T08:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/hong-kong-s-hang-seng-gains-for-seventh-day-on-growth-hopes-cnooc-rises.html

          
          
             Hong Kong stocks  rose, driving the
Hang Seng Index to its longest winning streak in 13 months, amid
optimism for corporate earnings growth in the city.  
 Li & Fung Ltd. , a trading company that generates two-thirds
of its sales in the U.S., increased 4.4 percent as a Federal
Reserve Bank of New York manufacturing index rose in June for an
11th consecutive month.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore oil
explorer, gained 2.3 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc upgraded
the stock.  Henderson Land Development Co.  fell 2.3 percent after
the builder said prospective buyers canceled purchases.  
 The  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.4 percent to 20,138.40 at the
close of trading. It increased 3.9 percent in the past seven
trading days, the longest winning streak since the seven days to
May 8, 2009. Hong Kong’s stock market was closed for a holiday
yesterday, during which the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 1.1
percent following the release of the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s general economic index of manufacturing.  
 “The market has had to deal with a lot of bad news,” said
 Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors,
which holds $90 billion including Hong Kong equities. “From an
earnings point of view, people are hopeful.”  
 The  Hang Seng Index  slumped 6.4 percent last month, the
most since January, on concern budget deficits in Europe and
credit tightening by China will slow global economic growth.
Shares on the benchmark index are priced at an average  13.3
times  estimated earnings, down from 18 times on Nov. 16, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of Chinese companies’
so-called H-shares advanced 0.2 percent to 11,583.50.  
 Standard Chartered  
 Li & Fung advanced 4.4 percent to HK$38.15. Yue Yuen
Industrial Holdings Ltd., which makes shoes for brands including
Nike Inc., gained 3.8 percent to HK$24.60.  
 Standard Chartered Plc  surged 4.1 percent to HK$194.60. The
British lender that earns at least three-quarters of its profit
in Asia said it will enter a partnership with Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd. to work together in retail and wholesale banking
in China and abroad.  
 Stock gains in Hong Kong were muted following a U.S.
government report yesterday that showed U.S. housing starts
slumped in May and FedEx Corp. projected lower-than-estimated
earnings. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 0.2 percent.  
 Cnooc  climbed 2.3 percent to HK$13.42 after HSBC boosted
its rating on the stock to “overweight” from “neutral.”
PetroChina Co., China’s largest oil producer, added 0.1 percent
to HK$8.81.  
 Broker Upgrades  
 The Hang Seng Commerce and Industry Index, which includes
commodity-related stocks, gained 0.8 percent, the most of the
Hang Seng Index’s four industry measures.  
 Li Ning Co.  jumped 4.4 percent to HK$27.15 after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised its rating on the Chinese sports-shoe
and clothing maker to “neutral” from “sell.”  
 Henderson Land , the builder controlled by billionaire  Lee Shau-kee , dropped 2.3 percent to HK$46.70, the biggest decline
in the Hang Seng Index today.  
 The company said it will take a charge of HK$734 million
($94 million) against earnings after sales of 20 luxury flats
were canceled. Credit Suisse Group AG cut its rating to
“neutral” from “outperform”, saying the cancellations may
have hurt investor confidence.  
 “This is a Henderson specific thing,” said  Andrew Sullivan , a sales trader at MainFirst Securities Hong Kong Ltd.
“When there’s bad news, people are steering away from those
companies.”  
 Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , the city’s largest developer
by market value, increased 0.7 percent to HK$108.50. The company
has submitted an application to bid on a residential plot in
Shanghai’s Pudong financial district, the China Business News
reported, citing an unidentified person.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        