-- Option Traders Boost Bets on Chipmaker Rally as Profit Forecasts Increase
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-06-17T21:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/option-traders-boost-bets-on-chipmaker-rally-as-profit-forecasts-increase.html

          
          
             Speculation that U.S. semiconductor
stocks will advance has climbed to the highest level since
January in U.S. options markets after  Texas Instruments Inc.  and
National Semiconductor Corp. increased earnings projections.  
 The ratio  of puts to sell the  Semiconductor Holders Trust 
exchange-traded fund versus calls to buy tumbled to 1.44 on June
10, the lowest since Jan. 25, after reaching a record 2.66 in
April. The most widely owned option on the ETF are August $31
calls, which give the right to buy the shares 8.7 percent above
yesterday’s close of $28.53 by Aug. 20.  
 Investors are raising bets on chipmakers after the largest
producers said demand for personal computers and electronics is
increasing and semiconductor companies boosted plants to full
production. The Semiconductor Industry Association nearly
tripled its 2010 sales forecast earlier this month.  
 “People are unraveling their put protection and shifting
to owning calls,” said  Joshua Belanger , founder of
OptionSizzle.com, a Stamford, Connecticut-based provider of data
and analytics. “The growth concerns are diminishing because of
solid forward guidance.”  
 Texas Instruments of Dallas, the second-biggest U.S.
chipmaker, said June 8 that sales and profit will be at the
upper end of earlier targets, buoyed by demand for industrial
machinery. National Semiconductor, the Santa Clara, California-
based maker of analog chips that control power in electronic
devices, said June 10 that it forecast first-quarter sales of at
least $410 million, exceeding the average analyst estimate of
$394 million in a Bloomberg survey.  
 ‘Significant Rally’  
 “If that’s a harbinger for what’s coming from other
companies, that could be setting up a significant rally,” said
 Scott Tapley , who helps oversee $2.5 billion at 1st Source
Investment Advisors Inc. in South Bend, Indiana. “Everyone’s
been holding their breath about the second half of the year.”  
 Tapley’s firm has been buying Intel Corp. since the world’s
largest chipmaker slumped  6.2 percent  in May, he said. Santa
Clara, California-based Intel accounts for 23 percent of the
semiconductor ETF’s market value.  
 The Semiconductor Industry Association said June 10 that
global microchip sales will rise 28 percent this year on rising
demand in China and India. Earlier this month, researcher
Gartner Inc. increased its projections for global chip sales to
a 27 percent increase this year, compared with a February
projection for a 20 percent gain.  
 Global Sales  
 The ETF tracking  18 companies  climbed 0.1 percent to a
five-week high of $28.53 yesterday, extending its gain  this year 
to 2.2 percent. It rose 0.1 percent to $28.55 at 4 p.m. in New
York today. SanDisk Corp. has soared 71 percent in 2010 for the
 biggest gain  as the maker of flash memory based in Milpitas,
California, benefits from a recovery in prices.  
 Three ETF members, representing 28 percent of its total
market value, will probably report quarterly results before next
month’s options expire on July 16, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They are Intel, Micron Technology Inc. of Boise,
Idaho, and Novellus Systems Inc. in San Jose, California.  
 The higher level of bullishness also may indicate the
underlying shares are poised for a pullback, according to  Joe Kunkle  of OptionsHawk.com.  
 “Now that the ratio is coming down it shows there is a
more bullish sentiment, less protection being bought, so it
could be seen as a bearish indication,” said Kunkle, founder of
 OptionsHawk , a Boston-based provider of options market data and
analytics. “It’s showing an overly optimistic sentiment, so the
group is over-invested.”  
 Intel Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  said at a May
11 meeting with investors that the personal-computer market has
stayed “resilient” and the company plans to give “good news”
on gross margin forecasts. It reports earnings on July 13.  
 “Semiconductor stocks are attractive,” said  Gus Richard ,
a San Francisco-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. He cited
decreased production capacity. “Demand is definitely going to
be solid through the end of the year,” Richard added.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        