-- Toronto-Dominion Bank May Expand Parternship With TD Ameritrade Brokerage
-- Sean B. Pasternak
-- 2010-06-17T16:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/toronto-dominion-bank-may-expand-parternship-with-td-ameritrade-brokerage.html

          
          
             Toronto-Dominion Bank  plans to
increase its ties with TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. through
referral programs and offering new services to clients of the
U.S online brokerage.  
 “I’m not aware of many banks out there that have first-
class offerings both on the banking side and what  TD Ameritrade 
provides,”  Bharat Masrani , president and chief executive
officer of Toronto-Dominion’s U.S. consumer bank, said today in
a telephone interview.  
 Canada’s second-largest bank has started a pilot project in
New York to refer clients to TD Ameritrade, said Masrani, 54.
Toronto-Dominion, the largest shareholder in TD Ameritrade, also
wants to offer banking services to the Omaha, Nebraska-based
company’s customers.  
 The bank told investors yesterday that U.S. profit may more
than double over the next three years to $1.6 billion annually.
Toronto-Dominion said the increase will be led by recent
acquisitions, organic growth, new branches and fewer loan
losses.  
 Toronto-Dominion has  spent  more than $15 billion on U.S.
acquisitions over the past five years, including the purchases
of Portland, Maine-based Banknorth Group and Cherry Hill, New
Jersey-based Commerce Bancorp.  
 The bank agreed in May to buy South Financial Group Inc.
for about $191.6 million to expand in Florida and the Carolinas.
A month earlier, it agreed to acquire the Florida assets and
deposits of AmericanFirst Bank, First Federal Bank of North
Florida and Riverside National Bank of Florida.  
 “In the short term, we’re not actively pursuing anything
else,” Masrani said. He said the bank would look at other
transactions if they became available.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        