-- Toyota Revives Mississippi Plant to Boost U.S. Corolla Supply
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-06-17T22:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/toyota-resumes-construction-of-mississippi-plant-to-boost-corolla-supply.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp.  is resurrecting
plans to complete a plant in Mississippi 18 months after
mothballing the facility as U.S. sales collapsed.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, will begin
installing assembly equipment at the facility in Blue Springs,
Mississippi, with a goal of starting production of Corolla
compact cars by late 2011, the company said yesterday. The
decision reverses earlier plans to use the plant to build
Highlander sport-utility vehicles and Prius hybrids.  
 “This is a great day for Mississippi,”  Haley Barbour , the
state’s governor, said in a conference call yesterday. Toyota’s
decision to delay the plant was the right one, and “by making
the right business decision, Toyota will be here the next 50 or
70 years,” said Barbour, a Republican.  
 Toyota completed construction of the $1.3 billion plant
last year, without installing machinery to make vehicles, after
saying in December 2008 it couldn’t continue with plans to make
the Prius there amid market turmoil. A recession triggered by
the financial crisis that began in 2008 led to a 35 percent
industry-wide plunge in U.S. auto sales from 2007 to 2009.  Sales 
this year through May rose 17 percent.  
 The company’s goal is to build as many as 150,000 Corollas
a year, said  Mike Goss , a Toyota spokesman.  
 The Toyota City, Japan-based company needs more North
American capacity to make Corollas after production of the small
car ended April 1 at New United Motor Manufacturing Inc., a
closed joint venture plant Toyota shared with the former General
Motors Corp. Corollas for the U.S. market currently are supplied
by Toyota’s Cambridge, Ontario, plant and exports from Japan.  
 ‘More Recovery’  
 “Toyota is probably expecting more recovery in North
America after next year,” said  Satoru Takada , an analyst at TIW
Inc. in Tokyo.  
 The company expects industrywide U.S. sales volume may
recover to as many as 16 million units annually by about 2015,
 Jim Lentz , Toyota’s U.S. sales chief, said in a conference call.
The decision to make the Corolla in Mississippi rather than the
Prius was one of supply and demand, he said.  
 “The immediate need today isn’t necessarily Prius,” Lentz
said. “It’s on Corolla.”  
 Toyota said yesterday it plans to hire 2,000 workers at the
plant. That’s the same number the company gave in 2007 when Blue
Springs was first announced as a future factory site to assemble
Highlander SUVs. In July 2008, Toyota changed plans and said it
would build the Prius at the factory instead.  
 Supplier Jobs  
 At least 2,000 additional jobs with suppliers are likely to
result from the plant project as well, Barbour said.  
 Mississippi approved $293.9 million in debt for the plant
as part of an incentive package for Toyota. The company agreed
last year to pay debt-service costs for infrastructure bonds
issued by the state and help suppliers make promised payments.
Toyota’s first $10 million share of debt was due in April 2010.  
 Toyota’s American depositary receipts, equal to two
ordinary shares, fell 47 cents to $72.31 yesterday in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        