-- Toyota Plunges to 21st in Auto-Quality Survey; Ford Makes Top 5
-- David Welch
-- 2010-06-18T00:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/toyota-plunges-to-21st-in-j-d-power-quality-survey-ford-makes-top-five.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Ford Motor Co. 
both set records for their namesake brands in the annual J.D.
Power & Associates survey of new vehicle quality, with Toyota
dropping to its worst ranking since the report began and Ford
making its first foray into the top five performers.  
 Toyota fell to 21st place from sixth in the Westlake
Village, California-based market-research firm’s initial quality
report, which measures consumer complaints in the first 90 days
of vehicle ownership.  
 High scoring brands do a better job of keeping customers,
with owners of cars in the top quartile buying the same brand 59
percent of the time while brands in the bottom quartile keep
just 44 percent of their purchasers, J.D. Power said.  
 “Toyota’s problems were directly related to the recalls.
This will certainly hurt their image a bit,” said  David Sargent ,
J.D. Power’s vice president of global vehicle research. “For
Ford, this is the culmination of nine years of improvement.”  
 The fifth-place ranking for Ford, the own-brand of the
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker, ranked it first among mass-
market nameplates. The top four performers were luxury brands:
 Porsche AG’s  namesake vehicles,  Honda Motor Co.’s  Acura,  Daimler
AG’s  Mercedes-Benz and Toyota’s Lexus, the market-research firm
said.  
 Below Industry Average  
 Toyota vehicles, which comprised the bulk of the parent
company’s recall, saw problems per 100 vehicles rise to 117 from
101, J.D. Power said yesterday. That pushed the brand’s scores
below the industry average, 109 problems per 100 cars in 2010,
for the first time in the survey’s 24-year history, J.D. Power
said.  
 Owners of Toyota vehicles complained mostly about parts
involved in the  recalls , such as brake pedals and floor mats,
Sargent said.  
 “Overall we’re probably disappointed, but not surprised,”
 Jim Lentz , Toyota’s U.S. sales chief, said in a conference call
yesterday. “It was really the vehicles in the recall that were
hit pretty hard.”  
 Sargent said he expects Toyota to improve from this year’s
results because the company likely will remedy in 2011 model-
year vehicles the problems that led to the recalls.  
 “What will be tougher is improving their reputation,”
Sargent said.  
 Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  said in a May interview that
scrutiny from inside and outside the company has been a “good
lesson” and he expects the carmaker to emerge stronger after
the recalls. The problems may be connected to Toyota’s rapid
expansion as it grew to become the world’s largest carmaker, he
said.  
 Toyota’s luxury Lexus brand finished fourth in the survey
with 88 complaints per 100 vehicles, down from first place with
84 last year.  
 Topping Category Rankings  
 The Japanese automaker made some achievements in this
year’s report: Including Lexus models, Toyota took first place
in six of 20 vehicle categories, more than any other
manufacturer. Honda, GM, and Ford, not including Volvo, each
took first in three vehicle categories.  
 Jeep and Chrysler brands from Chrysler Group LLC, based in
Auburn Hills, Michigan, performed better than  last year  while
failing to meet the industry average. Chrysler finished 23rd,
with 122 complaints per 100 vehicles, Jeep ranked 27th and Dodge
was 28th. The automaker is controlled by Italy’s Fiat SpA.  
 Among Detroit-based General Motors Co.’s four brands, only
Buick reported fewer problems than in 2009 and all GM brands
finished below the industry average.  
 New Models  
 Cadillac tumbled from third place last year with 91
problems to 13th this year with 111 problems. Cadillac’s new SRX
crossover sport-utility vehicle performed worse than the luxury
brand’s older vehicles, dragging its results down.  
 Carmakers often encounter more problems with models in
their first year of production, Sargent said. GM had several new
models included in the survey.  
 “Frankly, none of the new vehicles performed particularly
well,” Sargent said.  
 GM spokeswoman  Katie McBride  said the company has engineers
working on quality issues.  
 “We need to focus on launches,” she said. “We have our
work to do.”  
 Chevrolet dropped from ninth place last year with 103
problems to 14th with 111 problems, and truckmaker GMC fell from
18th with 116 problems to 25th with 126 problems.  
 On the same day that GM and Toyota were given lower scores
on the J.D. Power report, the two companies announced they are
increasing production.  
 GM said it will run nine of its 11 U.S. assembly plants
during the customary summer shutdown from June 28 to July 9 to
meet stronger demand. That will add as many as 56,000 vehicles
to production, the company said.  
 Toyota, based in Toyota City, Japan, said it would resume
plans to use a plant in Blue Springs, Mississippi, that was
mothballed in December 2008 when car sales slumped.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     2010 Toyota Prius hybrid cars sit in the sales lot at Elmhurst Toyota in Elmhurst, Illinois, U.S. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg) (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
