-- Palm Oil Production May Increase Next Year on La Nina, OSK's Tai Forecasts
-- Claire Leow
-- 2010-06-17T05:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/palm-oil-production-may-increase-next-year-on-la-nina-osk-s-tai-forecast.html

          
          
             Palm oil production in Indonesia and
Malaysia may increase next year as the La Nina weather pattern,
which brings wetter-than-usual weather, boosts productivity,
potentially hurting prices, according to OSK Investment Bank Bhd.  
 “Periods of increased rainfall are generally positive for
fruit production of the water-hungry oil palm,” analyst  Alvin Tai  said today. “Places closer to the equator have been wetter-
than-usual,” Tai said.  
 The two countries, which account for about 90 percent of
production, earlier this year experienced El Nino conditions,
which curbs rainfall and hurts yields. The Malaysian Estate
Owners Association, which warned in March that output may drop 3
percent this year on the El Nino, said today that production may
be level as the crop improved in the second quarter.  
 South Sumatra and Kalimantan in Indonesia “have been
getting a lot of rainfall so far,” Tai said. Northern Sumatra
and Malaysia’s Sabah were dry in the first quarter and are just
“starting to see increased rainfall,” he said.  
 Palm oil futures on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange,
which have declined 11 percent this year, fell as low as 2,369
ringgit ($724) a metric ton today, the lowest price in almost
seven months. The commodity is used in foods, cooking and as a
fuel additive.  
 Almost 100 millimeters of rain fell in Singapore before 11
a.m. yesterday, more than 60 percent the average rainfall in
June. The rains caused flash floods, with the Orchard Road
shopping district having the worst flooding in 26 years.
Singapore is located between Malaysia and Indonesia.  
 ‘Serves as a Reminder’  
 The freak flooding in Singapore “serves as a reminder that
we are really experiencing the La Nina weather phenomenon,” Tai
said. La Nina conditions are increasingly likely to develop this
year, Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology said on June 9.  
 Indonesian planters remain confident of strong second-half
output this year,  Ivy Ng , an analyst at CIMB Investment Bank
Bhd., wrote in a report today. “The same cannot be said for the
Malaysian planters, which expect some impact from the El Nino-
induced drought to kick in during the later part of the year.”  
 Malaysia’s output may be level this year at 17.6 million
tons, lower than a targeted 18 million tons,  Boon Weng Siew ,
president of the Malaysian Estate Owners Association, said today
by phone, without forecasting production in 2011. The group
represents small- and medium-sized growers.  
 PT  Astra Agro Lestari , Indonesia’s biggest publicly traded
plantation company, said in May that crude palm oil production
fell 3 percent to 295,932 tons between in the first four months
of the year from a year earlier.  
 Heavy rains are forecast this week in southern Sumatra,
Maryland-based MDA Information Systems Inc., which does
forecasting for tropical crops, said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        