-- Pebble Beach Redux Could Salvage Season for Woods as No. 1 Rank Threatened
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-17T14:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/pebble-beach-redux-could-salvage-season-for-woods-as-no-1-rank-threatened.html

          
          
             The U.S. Open and  Pebble Beach  Golf
Links 10 years ago helped  Tiger Woods  establish himself as the
best golfer of his generation. Now they can help him salvage his
season and No. 1 ranking.  
 Woods, 34, returns to the oceanside California course today
having completed two tournaments this season, and he could lose
his No. 1 ranking with anything less than a victory.  Phil Mickelson  is the 15-2 favorite to win at U.K. bookmaker William
Hill Plc; Woods is second choice at 8-1. Play began this morning
under clear skies.  
 The event comes as his competition gains ground and fans
and sponsors desert him after he admitted marital infidelity.
While he compiled 14 major titles, the debate surrounding his
quest to break  Jack Nicklaus ’s record of 18 major championships
has now become a question of if -- not when.  
 “He’s in odd territory,”  Jim Furyk , the 2003 U.S. Open
champion, said in an interview. “It used to be whether people
questioned his golf game, now they’re questioning him as a
person.”  
 Woods hasn’t won a major tournament since the 2008 U.S.
Open at Torrey Pines, after which he underwent knee surgery.
 Mickelson , who won his third Masters title in April, could
surpass Woods as the world’s No. 1-ranked player next week,
according to the Official World Golf Ranking. Mickelson, 40, can
pass Woods if he wins the tournament, or finishes as low as a
tie for third, depending on Woods’s performance.  
 Woods tees off at 4:36 p.m. New York time with  Lee Westwood 
of England and  Ernie Els  of South Africa as playing partners.  
 ‘Raised the Bar’  
 In 2000, there was no better player than Woods on the
course. He entered the final round of the U.S. Open with a 10-
shot lead and cruised to victory, leading 1982 U.S. Open
champion  Tom Watson , 60, to say Woods “raised the bar” to
heights that only Woods could reach.  
 “Everything was just on,” Woods said of his play that
week.  
 The combined margin of victory of every U.S. Open since
Woods’s 15-stroke win is 17.  
 His second-round iron shot out of four-inch rough from 205
yards to an uphill green on Pebble Beach’s par-5 sixth hole
prompted television analyst  Roger Maltbie  to proclaim at the
time that it was “not a fair fight.”  
 “He was out of this world that week,” Els said during a
news conference at Pebble Beach. “One of the many weeks he was
out of this world. That was really a wake-up call for a lot of
guys.”  
 Missed Cut  
 Woods’s off-course problems began with a single-car
accident outside his Florida home in November. In February, he
apologized for his infidelity and “irresponsible behavior”
during a 14-minute speech in Florida. He disappeared from golf
to undergo treatment for “personal” issues before returning to
play in April at the Masters.  
 Since then, he’s made only four tournament appearances
coming into this week.  
 While he finished fourth at the Masters in his 2010 season
debut, he tied for 19th at the Memorial Tournament two weeks ago
-- where his second-round score of 69 marked the first time he
broke 70 since the Masters. Between those two tournaments, Woods
missed the cut at the Quail Hollow Championship, where his
second-round 79 was his highest score since 2002, and withdrew
from the Players Championship the following week with a neck
injury.  
 “I’m just starting to get my feel back,” Woods said this
week. “I know I have to be patient with it.”  
 Sponsors Leave  
 He was less patient at a news conference this week when a
reporter asked him about the status of his marriage. “That’s
none of your business,” Woods said.  
 Since the accident, Woods has lost corporate endorsements
with Accenture Plc, AT&T Inc., and PepsiCo Inc.’s Gatorade and
plays without the help of coach  Hank Haney , who ended their six-
year relationship last month. He continues to golf without a
coach.  
 “There are a lot of guys out here who don’t have swing
coaches,” Woods said when asked if he was working with anyone
new. “But for some reason, people are very curious about my
life.”  
 $1 Billion Earned  
 Woods, who became the first athlete to surpass $1 billion
in earnings, according to  Forbes magazine , isn’t as desirable in
the eyes of the public.  
 According to Los Angeles-based Davie Brown Entertainment,
which ranks celebrity and athlete endorsers, Woods has fallen to
2,469th out of 2,501 in its “aspiration” category. The ranking
measures the degree to which consumers aspire to have the
celebrity’s life.  
 Even with all of the attention surrounding Woods, he said
he still has the desire to compete and win.  
 “I love playing,” Woods said. “Once that starts going
away, when I start not wanting to go get ready or I’m not ready
to play, then I’ve got to get the hell out.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Pebble Beach, California at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tiger Woods watches a tee shot during a practice round prior to the start of the 110th U.S. Open at Pebble Beach Golf Links. Photographer: Donald Miralle/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
