-- China Stops Pushing Up One-Year Central Bank Yield to Ease Fund Shortage
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-17T05:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/people-s-bank-one-year-3-year-bill-yields-unchanged-in-sale-traders-say.html

          
          
             The People’s Bank of China sold one-
year bills at an unchanged yield for the first time in three
weeks, seeking to ease a shortage of funds and damp speculation
of an imminent increase in benchmark interest rates.  
 The  yield  was 2.09 percent, following a combined increase
of 0.17 percentage points in the previous two weekly sales. The
 yield  on the central bank’s three-year bills also remained
stable at 2.68 percent, after sliding for four consecutive sales.  
 “The stable one-year bill yield after a two-week gain
signaled that the central bank doesn’t want to stir up
expectations for an interest-rate increase,” said  Jiang Chao ,
an analyst in Shanghai at Guotai Junan Securities Co., the
nation’s largest brokerage by revenue. “Pauses in the three-
year bill yield decline reflected tighter funding
availability.”  
 Slower growth in China’s industrial output and accelerating
inflation, as reflected in economic data for May, will cause a
dilemma for central-bank policy makers, according to Jiang. The
People’s Bank will seek to keep monetary policy stable and won’t
raise interest rates in the third quarter, he predicted.  
 Industrial output  rose 16.5 percent in May from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said last week, less than
economists’ median forecast of 17 percent and compared with
growth of 17.8 percent in the prior month.  Consumer prices  rose
3.1 percent from a year earlier last month, the quickest pace in
19 months.  
 Money-Market Rates  
 The  seven-day repurchase rate , a measure of lending costs
between banks, was fixed at 2.61 percent today by the National
Interbank Funding Center at 11 a.m. in Shanghai, up from 2.47
percent a week ago. The averaged cost climbed to 2.6 percent
this month from 1.9 percent in May.  
 Money-market rates have climbed as  Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd.  prepares to raise at least $23 billion in the world’s
largest initial public offering. Banks also gathered funds
during a public holiday in the first three days of the week.  
 “Liquidity in China is likely to be tight as the markets
open today after a three-day holiday,”  Frances Cheung , a senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, wrote in a note.
The Agricultural Bank IPO “could potentially lock up trillions
of yuan of funds, driving repo rates higher,” the note said.  
 The monetary authority offered 5 billion yuan ($732 million)
of one-year notes and 18 billion yuan of securities due in three
years at the auction today.  
 -- Belinda Cao . Editor:  Sandy Hendry ,  Ven Ram   
 To contact the Bloomberg news staff on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        