-- Petrol Will Expand in Croatia to Gain From Neighbor's EU Entry, CEO Says
-- Boris Cerni
-- 2010-06-17T11:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/petrol-to-expand-in-croatia-to-gain-from-neighbor-s-eu-entrance-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Petrol Group d.d. , Slovenia’s
biggest energy company, will focus its Balkan expansion on
Croatia to raise sales and buy smaller rivals before the nation
joins the European Union, its chief executive officer said.  
 “Our aim is to expand quickly and as soon as possible
because now it’s the right time to gain market share because
land prices and prices in the construction industry are low,”
 Aleksander Svetelsek  said yesterday in an interview in Zagreb.
“Petrol is so strong that it aims to be the leading motor fuel
retailer in the former Yugoslavia.”  
 Svetelsek, who last year took the helm of  Slovenia’s
biggest company  by revenue, aims to raise sales in Croatia by 50
percent over four years and will spend 75 million euros ($92
million) to build or buy gas stations, almost half of its total
budget for expanding outlets in the former Yugoslavia. The
company is seeking to increase its fuel outlets in the area to
about 570 by 2014 from about 440 today.  
 Croatia, a nation of 4.5 million people on the Adriatic
Sea, hopes to wrap up membership talks by the end of the year
and join the world’s largest trading bloc in 2012. All former
Yugoslav nations, including Serbia, want to follow Slovenia,
which joined the EU in 2004.  
 Interesting Targets  
 In total, Petrol has earmarked 428 million euros in
spending over the next four years to expand in the region, which
also includes investing in natural gas storage facilities. The
company, which has shareholder approval for a possible 50
percent capital increase to fund acquisitions, is competing with
Austria’s OMV AG, Mol Nyrt. and Russia’s Lukoil OAO.  
 “With Croatia’s EU membership, borders will fall, the flow
of capital and people will increase and it will also lower our
operating costs,” Svetelsek said. “We’ll build new motor fuel
stations but if an interesting target appears, similar to
Crobenz, we’ll put all our efforts on purchasing it.”  
 The Ljubljana-based company is seeking to purchase Crobenz
d.o.o., which has 14 gas stations, from  Mol -controlled  Ina
Industrija Nafte d.d.  Svetelsek said the company completed
buying Jadranplin d.o.o., a Croatian natural gas storage
company, adding to storage facilities in towns along the
Adriatic coast.  
 Serbia Monopoly  
 Petrol  rose 5.3 euros, or 2.1 percent, to 260.40 euros at 1
p.m. in Ljubljana. That cuts the stock’s decline this year to 18
percent and values the company at 543 million euros. Petrol
posted a profit of 9 million euros in the first quarter after a
loss of 5.6 million euros a year earlier. Sales rose 9 percent
to 607 million euros.  
 Petrol will also increase investment in Serbia after that
country’s move on June 14 toward a trade accord with the EU.
Serbian EU membership would also “end the monopoly over energy
supply” by refiner Naftna Industrija Srbije, majority-owned by
Russia’s  OAO Gazprom , Svetelsek said. Serbia will fully
liberalize its fuel market starting in 2011, according to Trade
Minister  Slobodan Milosavljevic .  
 “With Serbia getting closer to the EU the monopoly will
have to be relaxed and Petrol will be able to import its own oil
products from the world’s best producers,” Svetelsek said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Cerni  in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        