-- Pfizer's Celebrex Causes Less Stomach Upset, Bleeding Than Older Medicines
-- Michelle Fay Cortez
-- 2010-06-17T11:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/pfizer-s-celebrex-causes-less-stomach-upset-bleeding-than-older-medicines.html

          
          
             Pfizer Inc. ’s painkiller Celebrex
causes less bleeding and fewer ulcers in the gastrointestinal
tract than a combination of generic pain pills and heartburn
drugs, a company-funded study found.  
 Arthritis patients taking  Celebrex  were four times less
likely to start bleeding anywhere from the stomach to the colon
than those given the generic pain drug diclofenac and
AstraZeneca Plc’s Prilosec, a heartburn medicine that reduces
acid production. The six-month study was presented today at the
Congress of the European  League Against Rheumatism  in Rome and
published in The  Lancet .  
 Because chronic use of traditional painkillers is linked to
ulcers, doctors recommend either Celebrex or combination
treatment for arthritis patients who need regular treatment.
While previous studies showed they have similar effects on the
stomach, this is the first to examine the entire digestive
tract. The findings should be taken into account when
prescribing pain treatment for arthritis sufferers, the
researchers said.  
 The study “has provided new data relevant to patients
requiring anti-inflammatory therapy,” said the researchers, led
by Francis K.L. Chan from the department of medicine at Prince
of Wales Hospital in Hong Kong.  
 The results come from one of two studies New York-based
Pfizer is counting on to boost sales of Celebrex. The drug never
fully recovered after the product’s main rival, Merck & Co.’s
Vioxx, was pulled off the market because of its ties to heart
attacks in 2004. Celebrex sales peaked at $3.3 billion that
year. The drug generated $2.4 billion in 2009.  
 Too Short  
 The scientists tracked 4,484 patients with osteoarthritis
or rheumatoid arthritis who were at risk for developing ulcers
or other gastrointestinal problems. After six months, 0.9
percent on Celebrex and 3.8 percent given the pain and heartburn
combination developed bleeding, ulcers or anemia. More patients
getting the combination dropped out of the study because of side
effects.  
 The short duration of the study limits its usefulness,
since arthritis patients tend to take the drugs for years, Elham
Rahme and Sasha Bernatsky from McGill University Health Center
in Montreal, wrote in a Lancet editorial.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in London at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        