-- Philippine New Governor to Review Mining Ban, May Help Xstrata's Project
-- Cecilia Yap
-- 2010-06-17T08:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/philippine-new-governor-to-review-mining-ban-may-help-xstrata-s-project.html

          
          
             Arthur Pinggoy, the incoming
governor of Philippines’ South Cotobato, said he will review a
proposed ban on open-pit mining by the government, potentially
alleviating concerns about  Xstrata Plc ’s copper and gold project.  
 Local rulings can’t supersede national law which doesn’t
prohibit open-pit mining, Pinggoy said in an interview today by
phone. The current governor,  Daisy Fuentes , has until June 30 to
approve the ban before Pinggoy takes over.  
 Xstrata, the majority owner of the Tampakan deposit, said
last week open-pit mining is the safest and only economic method
for mining at the project. The mine, estimated to cost more than
$5 billion, will be the largest foreign direct investment in the
Philippines.  
 “We have to review the ordinance” and my legal
consultants are looking into it, said Pinggoy.  
 Fuentes couldn’t immediately be reached for comment on her
mobile phone. Her government this month passed an environment
code that included a proposed ban on the use of open-pit mining
in the province.  
 The nation’s Mines and Geosciences Bureau has said it will
ask provincial officers to reconsider the proposal.  
 “It’s definitely a concern,”  John Arnaldo , a spokesman
for Xstrata’s local unit Sagittarius Mines Inc. said today in an
interview. “We continue to engage in dialogue with stakeholders.
We’re monitoring developments.”  
 The proposal adds “uncertainties” to the project,  Zijin
Mining Group Co.  said June 11. Zijin, China’s largest gold
producer, is awaiting Chinese regulatory approval to buy
Australia’s  Indophil Resources NL , which owns a stake in the
Tampakan project.  
 The project will produce an average of 340,000 metric tons
of copper and 350,000 ounces of gold annually for 20 years,
Indophil said last year, citing a study by Xstrata.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecilia Yap  in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        