-- Pimco's McCulley Sees Fed on Hold for `Very' Extended Time on Europe Slump
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-06-17T02:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/pimco-s-mcculley-has-tears-in-his-eyes-on-unneeded-austerity-cnbc-says.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve will keep its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a “very extended period”
as Europe’s austerity measures curb world demand, said  Paul McCulley  of Pacific Investment Management Co.  
 Central bank officials may lower their 2010 estimates for
U.S. growth by “several tenths” of a percentage point and as
much as 0.75 point for 2011, former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley 
has said. That would mark a reversal from April, when officials
raised projections for this year to a range of 3.2 percent to
3.7 percent and left 2011 and 2012 forecasts little changed.  
 “The Fed’s going to be on hold for a very extended period
of time,” McCulley, a managing director at Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco, said in an interview placed on  CNBC’s
website . “If you got a deflationary fiscal policy in Europe
you’re going to have a deficiency of global aggregate demand and
the Fed should be on hold.”  
 Pimco, which manages $1.1 trillion of assets and runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, forecasts that the world economy will
undergo below-average economic growth, more regulation and a
higher natural rate of unemployment during the next three to
five years.  
 Policy makers have kept the Fed funds rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and the bank’s pledge
that interest rates will stay very low for an “extended
period,” has been in place since March 2009. The Federal Open
Market Committee meets June 22-23 in Washington. It will release
a statement at about 2:15 p.m. on June 23, followed by minutes
and forecasts from the meeting on July 14.  
 European ‘Headwind’  
 “The developments going on in Europe as well as with
respect to financial conditions just reinforce the proposition
that the Fed should be exceedingly accommodative and I think
they will reiterate that,” McCulley said. “Europe is one huge
structural headwind because basically they are pursuing
deflationary fiscal policy.”  
 Soaring bond yields in nations including Greece, Ireland
and Portugal forced the European Union to craft a 750 billion
euro ($921 billion) rescue package on May 10, including as much
as 250 billion euros from the International Monetary Fund. The
euro dropped 3.8 percent since then on concern austerity
measures by governments seeking to narrow budget deficits will
hamper growth in Europe.  
 Southern European countries that are part of an IMF program
may need “forced austerity,” McCulley said on CNBC. Not all
nations with deficits should be subject to tightening, he said.  
 Developed countries including the U.S. and northern parts
of Europe “need Keynesian stimulus right now, so this whole
notion that somehow we should impose austerity on ourselves from
a moral perspective as opposed to an economic perspective, I
find very disquieting,” he said. “I am a card-carrying
religious Keynesian, and what’s been going on recently has
brought tears to my eyes.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        