-- Pimco's Gross Increases U.S. Debt to Six-Month High
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-06-18T00:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/pimco-s-gross-boosts-u-s-government-debt-holdings-to-51-six-month-high.html

          
          
             Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond  fund  at  Pacific Investment Management Co. , boosted
holdings of U.S. government-related debt to the highest level in
six months as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis increased the
refuge appeal of the securities.  
 The $227.9 billion  Total Return Fund ’s investment in the
debt was increased to 51 percent of assets in May, from 36
percent the previous month, according to the  website  of Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco. Gross cut holdings of non-U.S.
developed debt to 6 percent from 13 percent, the lowest since
November and increased emerging market debt to a record 9
percent.  
 Treasuries, part of the government-related category, are
the premier holdings for fixed-income investors with the U.S.
economy failing to produce private sector jobs and Europe’s
fiscal crisis threatening the region’s banking sector, Gross,
66, said this month. U.S. debt had its best month in May for
more than a year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  
 Gross said in March, before European policy makers last
month unveiled a rescue package for the region’s sovereign
debtors worth almost $1 trillion, that the almost three-decade
rally in Treasuries may be drawing to a close.  
 “The U.S. is the least dirty shirt,” Gross, Pimco’s co-
chief investment officer, said during a June 4 radio interview
on Bloomberg Surveillance with  Tom Keene . “The world is full of
dirty shirts in terms of excessive debt, and the United States
is one of those countries, but it still remains the reserve
currency and still remains the flight-to-quality haven.”  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 U.S. Treasuries gained 1.7 percent in May, with 10-year
yields dropping to a one-year low of 3.06 percent, according to
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. That was the biggest
rally since March 2009, when the Total Return Fund raised its
 holdings  of U.S. government-related debt to 28 percent from 15
percent in February 2009.  
 Treasuries headed for a weekly advance on speculation signs
of a struggling economy will convince the Federal Reserve to
keep interest rates low. The 10-year note yielded 3.20 percent
as of 8:53 a.m. in Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data,
down from 3.24 percent on June 11.  
 Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the firm’s website.  
 Mortgages, Junk Holdings  
 Gross held the Total Return Fund’s mortgage composition in
May steady at 16 percent and decreased its high-yield holdings
to 3 percent from 4 percent. It cut its net cash-and-equivalent
position to negative 4 percent, the least since October 2009.
Emerging-market debt was increased to a record 9 percent from 7
percent, and non-U.S. developed nation debt was cut to a six-
month low.  
 Gross opted to insure debt from developed countries rather
than buy it earlier this year. The Total Return Fund increased
the credit-default swaps it sold on bonds from Group of Seven
nations such as the U.S. and the U.K. to more than $3 billion in
the first quarter, according to a June 7 regulatory filing. The
fund was insuring debt from six of the G-7 countries as of March
31, while no longer holding a $30 million contract on Italian
bonds.  
 Rescue Package  
 The credit swaps enable Pimco Total Return to earn premiums
without taking the risk, frequently cited by Gross, that rising
G-7 budget deficits will fuel inflation, pushing up interest
rates and driving down bond values. Pimco said the chance of a
default by countries such as the U.S. and U.K. is diminished
because they control individual currencies with which to pay
creditors, unlike Greece and other euro-zone nations.  
 Investors should buy the debt of countries such as Germany
and Canada that have low deficits and higher-yielding corporate
securities, he said at that time. Excess borrowing in nations
including the U.S. and U.K. will eventually lead to inflation as
governments sell record amounts of debt to finance surging
deficits, Gross said in a March interview with Bloomberg Radio.  
 The European Union announced last month a rescue package of
almost $1 trillion, with support from the International Monetary
Fund, to shore up the finances of the region’s weakest economies
amid concern governments will struggle to narrow their budget
deficits.  
 Total Return Fund  
 Spain is in the process of restructuring savings banks and
preparing to publish stress tests on lenders. It will use less
than a third of its 99 billion-euro ($122 billion) bank-rescue
fund it created last year, Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said
today in Madrid.  
 Under what Pimco has termed the “new normal,” investors
will face lower-than-average returns with heightened government
regulation, lower consumption, slower growth and a shrinking
global role for the U.S. economy.  
 Pimco’s Total Return Fund returned 12.34 percent in the
past 12 months, beating 57 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It made a return of 0.17 percent
over the past month, a performance superior to 82 percent of
competitors. Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE,
managed $1.07 trillion of assets as of March 31.  
 Pimco’s spokesman  Mark Porterfield  has said the firm
doesn’t comment on monthly changes in portfolio holdings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bill Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., speaking in Chicago. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
