-- Polish Voters May Endorse Euro Adoption in Choosing Kaczynski's Successor
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-06-18T11:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/polish-voters-may-endorse-euro-adoption-in-choosing-kaczynski-s-successor.html

          
          
             Polish voters may give the
government more clout to pursue euro adoption and asset sales by
backing the ruling party’s candidate in June 20 presidential
elections that follow the death of  Lech Kaczynski , the previous
head of state.  
 Bronislaw Komorowski , 58, the candidate for Prime Minister
 Donald Tusk’s  Civic Platform Party, will probably lead after the
first round of voting without gaining the majority needed to
avoid a runoff in two weeks, according to public opinion polls.
Kaczynski’s brother, Jaroslaw, 61, will likely finish second.  
 “The difference is clear,” said Wojciech Jablonski, a
political scientist at Warsaw University. “Poles either pick a
man who will represent the government in the presidential palace
or they pick Kaczynski, who will continue the policy of his
brother -- anti-European Union, anti-Russia and opposition to
the government.”  
 Komorowski, who has been acting president since Lech
Kaczynski died in an April 10 plane crash, would end three years
of tension between the president and prime minister that have
hampered policy making in the EU’s biggest eastern member. His
election would let Poland present a unified stance on the euro,
and help Tusk make spending cuts needed to bring the deficit
within the EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  
 The president represents Poland abroad, is head of the army
and can veto legislation. His veto can be overturned by a three-
fifths majority in parliament.  
 ‘Legislative Impasse’  
 The country’s debt markets already reflect a Komorowski
victory, according to  Arkadiusz Bogusz , who manages 1.5 billion
zloty ($456.4 million) in fixed-income funds at Credit Suisse
Asset Management SA in Warsaw.  
 “If Kaczynski wins, we have a legislative impasse,”
Bogusz said in an interview yesterday. “In the longer term,
that may lead to further fiscal deterioration; it may trigger a
selloff in one or two quarters.”  
 Some Kaczynski supporters say Civic Platform will have too
much power if Komorowski wins, giving the party control of both
the presidency and the prime minister’s office. Kaczynski’s Law
& Justice Party has sought to raise pensions for miners,
increase the minimum wage and lower taxes for families.  
 “Poland needs checks and balances in its politics,” said
Agata Wolszczak, 36, a mathematics teacher from Warsaw. “Every
authority needs to be controlled, and I am confident having a
president from another party than the government will be quite
healthy for our democracy.”  
 Coming From Behind  
 Komorowski was backed by 42 percent of respondents in a
June 15-16 poll published today by Warsaw-based researcher  GfK
Polonia , while Kaczynski was at 31 percent. The survey of 1,000
likely voters had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  
 All 37 public polls conducted from April 20 to June 17 show
Komorowski leading after the first round. The margin separating
the top two candidates narrowed to an average of 12 points in
the June surveys from 24 points in April. Two polls this month,
both by PBS DGA for the newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza, show
Komorowski may win the 50 percent necessary to avoid a runoff.  
 It may be too early to write off Kaczynski. Tusk lost his
2005 presidential bid after leading by 3 points in the first
round. Lech Kaczynski won by 8 points in the runoff.  
 A Komorowski victory will steer Poland through Europe’s
debt crisis without leaving the country fiscally vulnerable,
said London-based  Peter Attard Montalto , emerging markets
economist at Nomura International Plc.  
 The government ended last year with a deficit equal to 7.1
percent of  GDP . That shortfall will widen to 7.3 percent this
year, the European Commission said May 5.  
 Policy Conflict  
 Law & Justice Party last year called for an increase in
spending to offset the impact of the global economic crisis.
Poland is the only EU member to have avoided an economic
contraction since the credit crisis started.  
 The country also struggled to articulate a unified euro
policy while Lech Kaczynski was alive. The deceased president
opposed setting a date for euro entry and was the last EU leader
before Czech President  Vaclav Klaus  to sign the Lisbon Treaty,
intended to streamline EU institutions and lay the foundation
for the bloc’s enlargement. Tusk’s government plans to adopt the
euro and has said 2015 is a “realistic” date.  
 “I do hope that Komorowski as the new president will give
us a possibility of close cooperation, otherwise we will see
what we had seen for the previous 2 1/2 years,” Finance
Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said at a June 16 press conference.  
 Currency Switch  
 Jaroslaw Kaczynski  has urged Poland not to surrender the
zloty too quickly. Twenty-five percent of his supporters favor
switching to the euro, as opposed to 68 percent of those backing
Komorowski’s party, according to an April survey of 1,056 people
by Warsaw-based researcher CBOS.  
 A cooperative head of state may make it easier for Tusk to
win elections for the Sejm, Poland’s lower house of parliament,
next year. That would allow Poland to continue policy measures
including state asset sales. The government has earmarked $10
billion of stakes for sale this year as it uses privatization to
boost income.  
 Komorowski as president will “not only free up Tusk to
push forward with privatization more aggressively, but we
believe the government will finally have the political breathing
space before Sejm elections next year to be able to enact the
promised fiscal consolidation,” Montalto said.  
 Polling stations will open at 6 a.m. Warsaw time June 20
and close at 8 p.m. Exit polls will be announced on local
television after voting ends.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Candidate for Prime Minister Bronislaw Komorowski. Photographer: John  Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Jaroslaw Kaczynski, former prime minister of Poland, pauses during an interview at his office in Warsaw, on May 12, 2009. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
