-- Polish Banks' Profit Climbed 20% in First Four Months on Lower Provisions
-- Marta Waldoch
-- 2010-06-17T10:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/polish-banks-4-month-profit-rose-20-on-lower-provisions-regulator-says.html

          
          
             Polish banks’ combined profit rose
about 20 percent in the first four months of the year, helped by
falling provisions and higher net interest income, according to
the country’s  banking market regulator .  
 “This tendency should be maintained and the growth for the
full year may be similar or even slightly higher,” Krzysztof
Broda, deputy head of the Polish Financial Supervision
Authority, said in an interview with Bloomberg on June 10.  Net
income  for Polish lenders was 3.7 billion zloty ($1.1 billion)
in the January to April period.  
 Lenders in Poland, which was the only European Union
country to avert a recession last year, managed to “stabilize”
money set aside for bad loans as they introduced changes to
their lending policies “based on experiences” from last year,
Broda said. Banks had record combined provisions of 12 billion
zloty in 2009.  
 Reserves, which were at 3.6 billion zloty after four months
of this year, will fall and stabilize at below 3 billion zloty
in the next quarters, according to the regulator. Still, bad
loans, which rose to 53.7 billion zloty at the end of April from
49.4 billion zloty in December, accounted for 8.3 percent of
total lending and may increase further, it said.  
 The situation in the home-loan market is “worrying” as
banks boosted non-zloty mortgages and increased the minimum
level of a loan to a property value, which posts risks for
borrowers, Broda said. The watchdog may seek to impose more
regulatory actions to limit that, he added. A safe loan-to-value
level is about 80 percent, while this has been exceeded by many
lenders, according to the regulator.  
 Broda said he sees no capital “threats” for the country’s
banks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        