-- U.K. Pound Nears 1-Month High Versus Dollar as Retail Sales Beat Estimates
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-17T16:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/pound-trades-close-to-monthly-high-as-retail-sales-grow-on-world-cup-goods.html

          
          
             The pound climbed against 13 of its
16 most-traded counterparts after U.K. retail sales increased
more than economists predicted in May, boosting speculation that
Britain’s economic recovery is gathering pace.  
 Sterling neared the highest level in a month versus the
dollar as the Office for National Statistics said sales rose 0.6
percent on the month, beating the 0.1 percent median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey. The currency recovered from a dip after Bank
of England Governor  Mervyn King  said a slowdown in economic
growth may curb inflation. Government bonds also advanced.  
 “The figure today was responsible for the move up,” said
 George Tchetvertakov , head of market research at Alpari Ltd., a
U.K.-based online foreign-exchange provider. “Retail sales are
way higher than expected and suggest things aren’t as bad as
they looked.”  
 Sterling was 0.6 percent higher at $1.4812 at 4:35 p.m. in
London, after reaching $1.4856 yesterday, the highest level
since May 13. The pound was little changed at 83.51 pence per
euro.  
 The pound fell as much as 12 percent against the dollar
this year amid concern Britain’s government would fail to manage
the nation’s record budget deficit without harming economic
growth. It’s gained 4 percent since touching a low of $1.4231 on
May 20 on optimism  David Cameron ’s coalition government will
tackle the shortfall faster than  Gordon Brown ’s administration.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is set to
outline spending cuts in an emergency budget on June 22. The
U.K. chief secretary to the Treasury  Danny Alexander  said today
he will suspend 12 projects costing 8.5 billion pounds ($12.6
billion) announced by the previous government and cut completely
other programs totaling 2 billion pounds.  
 Bonds Rise  
 The Office for National Statistics said yesterday the
number of people claiming jobless benefits dropped 30,900 last
month, exceeding the median forecast of 25 economists for a
decline of 20,000.  
 Government bonds rose, narrowing the  extra yield  investors
demand to hold the securities instead of German bunds to the
least since February based on closing prices, after the sale of
4 billion pounds of notes due 2014 today.  
 The average yield on the bonds sold was 2.03 percent, less
than the 2.07 percent reached on the security prior to the sale
today. The yield on the 10-year gilt slid five basis points to
3.49 percent, narrowing the premium over bunds to 82 basis
points.  
 ‘Excited Market’  
 “We had a strong sale at the auction and that clearly
excited the market,” said  Matteo Regesta , an interest-rate
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “There was another
dovish speech by King yesterday, and with the emergency budget
looming, there is an increasing expectation the government can
reduce bond issuance.”  
 King said in London yesterday that should growth weaken,
“the outlook for inflation would probably be lower and monetary
policy could then respond.”  
 While U.K. inflation still exceeds the government’s 3
percent upper limit, Bank of England officials predict the rate
will decline in the aftermath of the economic slump. The central
bank last week kept its 200 billion-pound bond stimulus in
place. It has held the key interest rate at a record low of 0.5
percent since March 2009.  
 King also said in the speech that officials will probably
raise rates before selling the bonds when they decide to remove
economic stimulus measures.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The pound strengthened as much as 0.2%. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
