-- Priceline Tops Best Stocks List After Negotiating Bubble
-- Roben Farzad
-- 2010-06-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/priceline-negotiates-path-from-dot-com-bust-to-top-businessweek-stock-list.html

          
          
             Priceline.com Inc., the discount
Internet travel agency, posted net losses for the first three
years of the 21st century.  
 Tourism slumped after the dot-com bubble and the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks on the U.S., the company’s foray into name-
your-own-price groceries and gasoline went awry, and its stock
plummeted.  
 Priceline.com’s management sought a reverse 1-for-6 split
after shares collapsed from a split-adjusted high of $974 in
April 1999 to less than $7 in October 2002.  
 Eight years later, the picture is quite different.
Priceline.com’s net income more than doubled in 2009, to $489.5
million, and the stock has jumped 27 times from its low, to
$185.  
 The Norwalk, Connecticut-based company tops Bloomberg
Businessweek’s ranking of the 50 top-performing stocks in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index over the past five years, the
magazine reports in its June 21 issue.  
 An investment of $10,000 in Priceline.com in March 2005
would have been worth more than $101,000 exactly five years
later.  
 Actor William Shatner’s television ads for the company have
become so ubiquitous that he says people recognize him more
often as Priceline’s “Negotiator” than as Captain Kirk, the
character he played in the 1960s TV series “Star Trek” and
film sequels into the 1990s.  
 Alongside eBay Inc. and Amazon.com Inc., Priceline.com,
with a market valuation of about $9 billion, is one of the few
old-time dot-com darlings thriving into the 2010s.  
 The comeback was led by Chief Executive Officer Jeffery H.
Boyd, a lawyer who joined Priceline as general counsel from
Oxford Health Plans in 2000.  
 Plane Tickets  
 When he became CEO in 2002, Boyd knew the company had to
play down its reliance on plane tickets: Priceline’s notoriously
circuitous take-it-or-leave-it terms -- think Miami to San Diego
via a six-hour layover in Milwaukee -- would be an even harder
sell if people weren’t flying.  
 So he decided to rebuild the brand around hotels and expand
into Europe. The decisions “to focus on hotels and ultimately
to take that focus internationally are the steps that really
created the value that our shareholders have realized over the
last several years,” said Boyd, 53.  
 The year 2002, which saw a mass extinction of e-commerce
companies, marked the turning point. Priceline’s net loss
widened to $19 million, the company fired almost 20 percent of
its staff, and its stock price fell 73 percent.  
 Airlines were in crisis mode, with the slump in tourism
sending United Airlines parent UAL Corp. and US Airways Group
Inc. spiraling toward bankruptcy. The outlook for lodging,
though, wasn’t as bleak. Hotel competitors were setting prices
all over the map, and Priceline.com created a niche for itself
by catering to budget-conscious travelers during the downturn.  
 Shatner Ads  
 In a 2003 relaunch, Boyd returned to Shatner, who had
largely been shelved as company spokesman. The new campaign had
Shatner narrating scenes of travelers comparing the savings they
could get on rooms from Priceline vs. those from Expedia Inc.
and Travelocity.com Inc.  
 “Ordinarily, the process is Priceline discusses with me
the concept and they hope that I’ll be able to think of amusing
ways of doing it,” Shatner said.  
 Priceline had cultivated relationships with such hotel
chains as Marriott and Starwood before going public in 1999.
With that foundation in place, Boyd doubled down on
accommodations. Between 2003 and 2004, Priceline consolidated
control of Dallas-based Travelweb, a joint venture owned by the
major hotel chains.  
 Hotel Access  
 By the end of 2003, Priceline customers had access to more
than 10,000 hotels and the company was building a positive
industry reputation.  
 “Suppliers want to work with them and therefore they
invariably get the best terms,” said Marriott Senior Vice-
President Shafiq Khan, who meets with Boyd at least two or three
times a year. “It really does competitively put them in a
different category than the others.”  
 As a result of Boyd’s efforts, Priceline turned its first
annual profit in 2003 and the stock jumped 86 percent.  
 Boyd then started expanding in Europe, where spur-of-the-
moment discount travel was more culturally entrenched. The CEO
moved quickly to exploit two trends: Europeans were booking
travel online less often than Americans, leaving a bigger
opportunity for growth as they migrated to the Internet.  
 Independent Hotels  
 And big hotel chains were not as dominant in Europe,
creating fewer price blocs and a competitive opening for smaller
players.  
 In every European market “there’s a large number of
independent hotels that benefit from the kind of online
distribution we can offer,” Boyd said. “That fragmentation is
what makes Europe so great for us.”  
 Rather than build from the bottom, Boyd went on an
acquisition spree, snapping up existing online discount travel
sites. In 2004, he purchased Britain’s Active Hotels, an online
discount booking agency, for $161 million.  
 A year later, he paid $133 million for Netherlands-based
Bookings, now Booking.com. Two years after that, Europe went
from a negligible portion of Priceline’s revenue to generating
more than half of the company’s bookings.  
 It helped that Priceline.com had banked enough cash during
the dot-com boom to sustain itself through a multiyear
reinvention.  
 Focus on Asia  
 After success in Europe, the company focused on Asia. In
2007, Priceline spent $16 million -- plus up to $142 million in
incentives -- to acquire Agoda.com, a Bangkok-based online
travel company that specializes in discount hotel bookings
across Asia as well as Australia, the Middle East, and Africa.  
 The deal was targeted at providing more hotel inventory to
customers traveling to Asia from Western markets and tapping the
region’s bustling growth. Asia now represents less than five
percent of Priceline.com’s bookings, but it’s one of the
company’s fasting-growing markets.  
 Overall, international bookings made up 61 percent of
Priceline.com’s 2009 total, far more than Expedia Inc. and
Orbitz Worldwide Inc., which reported international bookings at
34 percent and 14 percent of their respective totals.  
 Priceline.com’s revenue has grown at least 24 percent each
of the past three years and it increased sales by 34 percent
during the 2008 recession. Last year, revenue was $2.3 billion.  
 ‘Really Strong People’  
 “Jeff has kept Priceline focused and he has kept some
really strong people there,” said Henry Harteveldt, a travel
analyst at Forrester Research who has followed the company for
more than a decade.  
 Boyd’s chief information officer, Michael Diliberto;
marketing head, Brett Keller; and president of North American
travel, Chris Soder, have all been with the company since Boyd
joined in 2000.  
 Priceline.com now works with a network of more than 100,000
hotels in over 90 countries and Boyd sees further room for
expansion.  
 In Asia and other developing markets such as South America,
there will be “growth in the absolute number of people that
have the wherewithal to travel,” he said.  
 Even if the financial turmoil in Greece and other European
destinations remains a worry, Priceline.com’s revenue is
expected to grow 19 percent in 2010, compared with 11 percent
and 4 percent, respectively, at competitors Expedia and Orbitz,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Roben Farzad in New York at 
 rfarzad@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The priceline.com homepage is displayed on a computer screen. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
