-- Private Banks Touting Asia Expansion Plans Make Clariden Leu's Lee `Puke'
-- Joyce Koh
-- 2010-06-17T01:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/private-banks-touting-asia-expansion-plans-make-clariden-leu-s-lee-puke-.html

          
          
             Private banks touting plans to step
up hiring in Asia are undermining the industry by driving up
compensation expectations, said the regional head of  Credit
Suisse Group AG ’s Clariden Leu unit.  
 “If you go by the numbers, it makes me puke: I don’t know
who these people are, and why they’re talking like that,”
Singapore-based  Jimmy Lee , a 20-year private banking veteran,
said in an interview on June 11. “They’re shooting themselves
in the foot.”  
 UBS AG ,  Standard Chartered Plc  and  Morgan Stanley  are among
companies that have announced plans to hire more private bankers
to help Asia’s swelling ranks of millionaires manage their money.
Wealth in the Asia-Pacific region outside Japan is expected to
grow at twice the global rate, the Boston Consulting Group said
this month.  
 Increased competition for Asia’s riches has led to a
shortage of qualified private bankers in Singapore, and turnover
among advisers in search of bigger paychecks is antagonizing
clients concerned about privacy, said Lee, who  joined  Clariden
Leu in March 2009.  
 “It takes time to build these people,” he said. “It
affects me because when I talk to other relationship managers,
they’ll say if so many banks are growing, they’ll feel good, and
they tend to ask for much higher salaries which are unrealistic
sometimes.”  
 The Asia-Pacific region’s share of global wealth will rise
to almost 20 percent in 2014 from 15 percent last year, with
China and India driving growth, according to the Boston
Consulting Group report.  
 ‘Merry Go-Round’  
 The industry may need an additional 900 wealth managers in
the next five years to cope with growth in the region, according
to a September research note from UBS. Switzerland’s biggest
bank said last month it is reviving an effort to recruit and
train people who don’t have industry experience for its Asian
unit as competition for private bankers heats up.  
 Many private banks expect “instant gratification” and
look for wealth managers who can bring existing relationships
and assets, Chris Claridge, managing partner at the  Consulting
Partnership , a Singapore-based headhunting firm, said in an
interview yesterday.  
 Pay increases for advisers who switch firms is averaging
about 15 percent to 30 percent amid a “ridiculous merry go-
round” among staff, Claridge said.  
 “There’s a fair bit of wishful thinking going on,” he
said. Banks in Asia are talking about hiring “without really
thinking through” where the new employees will come from.  
 Private banking clients are concerned the turnover in
advisers will threaten privacy, said Lee, 48. Hiring at Clariden
Leu, 89 percent owned by Credit Suisse, will depend on the
availability of qualified people, he said.  
 “My information is shared with six other banks if my
private banker moves to six banks, and that is a problem,” he
said. “You’re actually causing trouble for your clients if you
keep moving around. That’s something this industry should look
to minimize.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at   jkoh38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Morgan Stanley has announced plans to hire more private bankers, Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
