-- Rabobank May Invest as Much as $200 Million in Agricultural Bank of China
-- Martijn van der Starre
-- 2010-06-17T15:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/rabobank-may-invest-as-much-as-200-million-in-agricultural-bank-of-china.html

          
          
             Rabobank Groep  may invest as much as
$200 million in  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the Chinese
lender that’s selling stock in an initial public offering,
buying a stake that will probably be less than 0.5 percent.  
 “Our stake will be a very small stake, somewhere between
$100 million and $200 million,”  Sipko Schat , a member of
Rabobank’s executive board, said at the cooperative’s annual
meeting in the Dutch city of Utrecht today. “We have probably
bought somewhat less than 0.5 percent of Agricultural Bank’s
share capital,” Schat said, adding that the transaction “isn’t
yet definitive.”  
 Agricultural Bank, based in Beijing, may raise at least $23
billion in its IPO in Hong Kong and Shanghai and Rabobank is
among corporate investors who expressed interest in buying
shares, two people with knowledge of the matter said earlier
this month. Rabobank said on June 4 it will start a strategic
partnership with Agricultural Bank, China’s largest lender by
customers, to strengthen its position in the country.  
 The stake “cements our 25-year relationship” with
Agribank and is “more of a symbolic investment that underlines
our cooperation than something else,” Rabobank Chairman  Piet Moerland  told reporters in Utrecht.  
 The partners will jointly explore opportunities in
wholesale banking, leasing and asset management to develop and
distribute products through Agricultural Bank’s 24,000- branch 
network, Rabobank said on June 4.  Rabobank , the world’s biggest
agricultural lender, owns a 10 percent stake in China’s United
Rural Cooperative Bank of Hangzhou.  
 While Moerland said he doesn’t exclude Rabobank increasing
its stake in United Rural Cooperative Bank of Hangzhou, “at the
moment there aren’t plans to do that,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martijn van der Starre  in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        