-- Treasury Suspends $12.6 Billion in Spending Projects, Axes Other Programs
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-06-17T16:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/treasury-suspends-12-6-billion-in-spending-projects-axes-other-programs.html

          
          
             U.K. Chief Secretary to the Treasury
 Danny Alexander  suspended 12 projects costing 8.5 billion pounds
($12.6 billion) announced by the previous government and cut
completely other programs totaling 2 billion pounds.  
 Most of the money affects one contract, to supply search-
and-rescue helicopters to the defense ministry and the
Department for Transport. The 7 billion-pound project, which
will now be reviewed, is with the  Soteria group  made up of  CHC
Helicopter Corp. ,  Thales SA ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
and Sikorsky, a subsidiary of  United Technologies Corp .
Deliveries under the planned 25-year deal were scheduled to
start in 2012.  
 “These decisions will significantly relieve burdens on
departmental budgets that will be significantly under
pressure,” Alexander told lawmakers in  Parliament  in London
today. He said the contracts canceled “do not represent good
value for money.”  
 The announcement comes five days before Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  is scheduled to make an emergency
budget speech in Parliament setting out measures to reduce
Britain’s record budget deficit.  
 Pre-Election Commitments  
 Alexander said that out of 34 billion pounds in spending
commitments made by  Gordon Brown ’s Labour government between
Jan. 1 and the May 6 election, “we’ve had to cancel 2 billion
pounds and put 9 billion into the spending review.”  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron  accused Brown of using his
final months in office to target spending at electoral districts
Labour looked as if it might lose.  
 “We’re going to have to take difficult decisions, and
we’re going to have to start with decisions the previous
government made as it was getting close to the election,”
Cameron told a news conference today after talks with European
leaders in Brussels.  
 In May the Treasury said that the rate at which ministers
overruled their aides to push ahead with spending projects had
risen almost tenfold in Labour’s final year in office.  
 Alexander told Parliament that Labour ministers had relied
on potential underspending in their budgets to fund some
projects when “there was no reason to suppose there would be
underspends.” He cancelled 1 billion pounds of such projects.  
 “Billions are underspent each year,” Labour Treasury
spokesman  Liam Byrne  said in reply.  
 Sheffield Forgemasters  
 Labour lawmakers expressed outrage that an 80 million-pound
loan for Sheffield Forgemasters Ltd. to make components for
nuclear power plants had been canceled. The money was announced
in March by then Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson . Brown
visited the plant in Sheffield in the final hours before the
election.  
 “The Sheffield Forgemasters proposal was never just about
aid to one company,” said Labour business spokesman  Pat McFadden . “It was about the U.K. having an ambition to be a
success in the growing world supply chain in civil nuclear
power. It would have given Britain the ability to make key
components for the nuclear and other industries that currently
have to be sourced from outside Europe.”  
 Alexander said the government would help the company find
private investment.  
 The chief secretary accused Labour of irresponsible
expenditure, repeatedly quoting the letter Byrne left for his
successor, which read simply: “There’s no money left.”  
 A  YouGov Plc poll  this week found that 48 percent of
respondents blamed Brown’s administration for current spending
cuts, with 17 percent blaming Cameron’s coalition government of
Conservatives and Liberal Democrats. YouGov questioned 1,435
British adults for The Sun newspaper on June 13-14. No margin of
error was given.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        