-- Record Number of China Households Say Home Prices, Inflation Are Too High
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-17T10:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/record-number-of-china-households-say-home-prices-inflation-are-too-high.html

          
          
             A record number of China’s urban
households called home prices “unacceptable” as satisfaction
with the level of inflation fell to an all-time low, a People’s
Bank of China  survey  showed.  
 The percentage of households who said they were prepared to
buy property in the next three months fell to 15.5 percent, the
second consecutive quarterly decline, the central bank said in
its survey of households in 50 cities carried out in late May.
Expectations for continued gains in  home prices  are weakening,
the report showed.  
 China overtook Hong Kong as the world’s hottest housing
market in the first quarter, with prices rising by 68 percent,
more than double the rate of any other region, property adviser
Knight Frank LLP said in a report today. Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s
policies to curb speculation, which have led to a slump in
transactions, have yet to hurt prices, economists said.  
 “The government has already adopted policies to cool the
property market but it’s way too early to see the effect because
it takes time for these to work,” said  Wang Tao , a Beijing-
based economist at UBS AG. “Given time things will start to
work so I don’t think the government intends to tighten policy
further.”  
 High Inflation  
 Satisfaction with  consumer prices  fell to a record low of
21.7 percent in the second quarter, with the number of urban
households who said inflation was “too high” rising to the
highest in 10 years, according to the central bank’s survey.
More households said they expected price gains in the coming
three-month period as compared with the previous survey.  
 China’s inflation accelerated in May to the quickest pace
in 19 months, rising 3.1 percent from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau said last week. On a monthly basis, prices in
May declined 0.1 percent from April and the nation’s top
economic planning agency said on June 4 that China’s overall
target for 2010 inflation of around 3 percent is achievable.  
 In a separate  survey  of 2,900 heads of financial
institutions, an index gauging demand for home mortgages dropped
by 6.4 percentage points in the second quarter to 58.8 percent
compared with the previous quarter, the central bank said.  
 The  confidence index  of Chinese bankers fell 5.8 percentage
points in the second quarter from the previous quarter to 64
percent, according to the survey.  
 The number of respondents who said monetary policy was
“appropriate” declined to 57.9 percent from 60.5 percent in
the previous quarter and just over half expected the government
to maintain current monetary policy in the next quarter, little
changed from three months earlier.  
 -- Luo Jun  in Shanghai,  Huang Zhe  in Beijing. With assistance
from  Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong. Editors:  Nerys Avery ,  John Liu   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net 
Huang Zhe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7552 or
 Zhuang37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        