-- Ambani Needs to Expand to Boost Reliance Stock
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-06-17T10:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/reliance-lagging-sensex-means-billionaire-mukesh-ambani-needs-growth-push.html

          
          
             Billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s Reliance
Industries Ltd., India’s largest company by market value, must
tap the country’s hunger for power and communications to boost
the stock that has lagged behind key benchmarks, investors say.  
 The oil  refiner  and energy explorer has  climbed  4.5 percent
in Mumbai in the past year compared with a 21 percent gain in
India’s Sensitive Index and a 13 percent advance in the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Energy Index . Investors shied away from the shares
as a global recession curbed fuel demand and Mukesh clashed with
his younger brother,  Anil Ambani , over their business interests.  
 A decision on May 23 by the world’s richest brothers to
scrap a non-competition accord removed curbs imposed after they
split India’s second-biggest business empire. Reliance on June
11 acquired an Internet services company for $1 billion and fund
manager  Deven Choksey  says more initiatives may be outlined by
Mukesh in his annual speech to shareholders tomorrow.  
 “Now there is clarity about them getting into new sectors
and investors look forward to the next phase of growth,” said
Choksey, chief executive officer of Mumbai-based KR Choksey
Shares & Securities, which manages about $123 million for
wealthy individuals and owns Reliance shares. “I expect Mukesh
Ambani to lay out the road map for new businesses such as
telecom and power,” he said in a telephone interview.  
 Family Agreements  
 Under an agreement reached on June 18, 2005, Mukesh, 53,
kept the petrochemicals, oil and gas units and Anil, 51, got the
power, telecommunications, financial services and entertainment
units. The brothers said last month they were scrapping an
accord drawn up in 2006 that barred them from expanding into
each other’s businesses.  
 On the fifth anniversary of the split, the billionaires may
signal a formal reconciliation, with Anil likely to attend
tomorrow’s meeting of Reliance Industries shareholders, the
Hindustan Times reported today, citing an unidentified person
close to the family.  Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for Reliance
Industries, declined to comment on the report and Anil Ambani
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comments.  
 Reliance, which  accounts  for about 14 percent of the
benchmark index, rose 1.3 percent to close at 1,071.40 in
Mumbai. The stock has lagged behind the  Sensex  in four of the 10
 years  ended June 15, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The Mumbai-based company’s first foray in commercial
electricity generation may come as early as next month when
Reliance plans to bid in a government auction to build at least
one power plant in India, two company officials said yesterday.  
 Power Plant Bid  
 India, Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy, ranks
below war-ravaged Ivory Coast, Honduras and Sri Lanka for the
quality of its energy, transport and telecommunications
infrastructure, according to the World Economic Forum’s  Global
Competitiveness Index . Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  on March 23
asked companies to fund half the country’s planned $1 trillion
infrastructure spending for the five years starting April 2012.  
 “India will remain one of the fastest growing economies
and it will remain a big market,” said  Juergen Maier , who helps
manage the equivalent of $1.4 billion of assets, including
Reliance shares, at Raiffeisen Capital Management in Vienna.
Investing in power production will help Reliance Industries
generate more cash, he said in a telephone interview.  
 The operator of the world’s biggest refining complex and
India’s largest natural gas field had outstanding  debt  of about
625 billion rupees ($13.4 billion) and cash and equivalents of
218.7 billion rupees as of March 31, the company said in April.
Reliance is in talks with banks to borrow $1 billion, two people
with direct knowledge of the matter said June 4.  
 Cyclical Businesses  
 The company’s net income  missed  analysts’ estimates in at
least three of the last four quarters after profit from turning
crude oil into fuels slumped as the worst recession since World
War II cut global demand for gasoline and diesel.  
 “Refining and petrochemicals are cyclical businesses that
have their ups and downs,” said  Philipp Lotter , a Singapore-
based analyst at Moody’s Investors Service. “If Reliance were
to broaden out into more stable sectors that would stabilize
their overall business.”  
 Moody’s on June 14  affirmed  its Baa2 debt rating for
Reliance, with stable outlook, following its acquisition of
Infotel Broadband Services Ltd. three days earlier. The ranking
is second lowest investment grade awarded by the rating company.  
 Even as Mukesh Ambani diversifies his  business , investors
expect Reliance to continue to buy oil and gas assets overseas
and fulfill its ambition of becoming a global energy company.  
 Overseas Acquisitions  
 The company bought shale gas assets in the U.S. from  Atlas
Energy Inc.  for $1.7 billion in April after failing to purchase
LyondellBasell Industries AF in a deal that would have valued
the bankrupt chemicals maker at $14.5 billion, and losing a bid
for oil sands assets in Canada owned by Value Creations Inc.  
 Reliance is considering buying a stake in shale gas assets
owned by  Pioneer Natural Resources Co.  in the U.S., two people
with knowledge of the matter said June 10.  
 “They can become a significant global player and there is
nothing to hold them back,” said  Seth Freeman , chief executive
officer at San Francisco-based EM Capital Management LLC, which
owns Reliance shares. “They have the financial wherewithal to
do that and energy would be the way they expand overseas.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chairman of Reliance Industries Mukesh Ambani. Photographer: Adam Berry/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
