-- Renaissance Channels China Funds to Africa as Russian Bank Shifts Focus
-- Jason Corcoran
-- 2010-06-17T21:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/renaissance-channels-china-funds-to-africa-as-russian-bank-shifts-focus.html

          
          
             Renaissance Capital, one of the
oldest Russian investment firms and the nation’s biggest equity
underwriter, is helping place Chinese funds in natural resources
companies across Africa and the former Soviet Union as part of a
strategy to become a multi-regional emerging-markets bank.  
 Renaissance is hiring bankers in Beijing and opening an
office in Hong Kong, said Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Jennings , who co-founded the bank in 1995. Renaissance advised
 African Minerals Ltd.  on a stake sale to  China Railway Materials
Corp.  this week and Moscow-based  United Co. Rusal Ltd.  on its
share offering to Chinese billionaire  Li Ka-Shing  in January.  
 Jennings is turning to China after the bank survived the
2008 credit crisis by selling a 50 percent stake minus one share
to  Mikhail Prokhorov , the Russian billionaire owner of the New
York Nets basketball team.  Chinese companies  did the most
mergers and acquisitions among developing nations this year,
announcing or completing 619 deals worth about $56 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “We are putting a lot of people on the ground in Hong Kong
and we will need a number of senior bankers in Beijing because
the M&A integration between Asia and our geographies will be one
of the biggest themes globally,” Jennings said in an interview
from his 49th-floor, glass-enclosed office in the Moscow City
financial district of Russia’s capital. “I don’t think the
Chinese will want to buy a lot of assets in the U.S. or Germany,
but they are going to want to get their hands on a lot of
infrastructure.”  
 Credit Suisse  
 Jennings, a 49-year-old New Zealander, founded Renaissance
with former bankers from  Credit Suisse Group AG , including  Boris Jordan , after moving to Russia to work as co-head of the Swiss
bank’s Moscow office. Renaissance slashed the number of bankers
to 190 from 650 after Russia’s debt default in 1998, and cut
staff again in 2008 by 40 percent from 1,150. The bank, which
now has 900 employees, has hired more than 100 bankers this year
and plans to add a total 200 to 250 in its offices from New York
to Lagos, Accra and Almaty.  
 Renaissance is in the process of getting a license for
operations in Hong Kong and will “very shortly have metals and
mining bankers on the ground in Hong Kong, so we will be
originating deals throughout Asia,” Jennings said in the June
16 interview.  
 At least 24 initial public offerings worth $5.5 billion
were priced in Hong Kong this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. While shares of Rusal, the first Russian company to sell
new equity in Hong Kong, have since  tumbled  37 percent, Russian
companies from VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender, to
iron ore producer Petropavlovsk Plc say they may follow suit.  
 Hong Kong  
 “The center of global capital for emerging markets will
move from London to Hong Kong within three years,” said
Jennings, who returned to his position in February after
stepping down as CEO in 2007 to pursue expansion projects. “The
logic is compelling because so many of these businesses have a
strategic link with Asia, the biggest pool of incremental
savings is coming from Asia, and Asia is the low-cost tax and
regulatory environment, which London certainly isn’t.”  
 The bank is still assessing how to do business in  Brazil 
and the Middle East, while Egypt and Turkey “are gaps for us”
and “Pakistan and Bangladesh will become important,” Jennings
said. The only place where Renaissance has closed an office is
in Dubai, he said.  
 Top Underwriter  
 Renaissance ranks No. 1 for equity underwriting in Russia
this year, up from fourth in 2009 after Morgan Stanley, VTB
Capital and  Deutsche Bank AG , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. While VTB can be “very disruptive” as a competitor
for Renaissance’s business in Russia, Jennings said he expects
to be the only “multi-regional” emerging-markets bank.  
 VTB Capital Chief Executive Officer  Yuri Soloviev  said in
an interview yesterday in St. Petersburg that his bank will
focus on business in Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent
States, with some hubs for sales and distribution in selected
markets such as Hong Kong, Dubai and New York.  
 China, the world’s third-largest economy, has wealth to
invest, while Russia, the biggest energy exporter, has a surplus
of natural resources, creating an “overwhelming” logic for
increased economic ties, according to Jennings.  
 “The Chinese need to buy large iron ore reserves and
deposits,” said Jennings. “Who will find and package these
things? It won’t be a bunch of guys sitting in New York. You
have to be out there on the ground and be very specialized.”  
 M&A Deals  
 About 70 percent of the M&A deals managed by Renaissance
have no  U.S.  or  European  company connection, a change from three
years ago when 75 percent were linked to a western company,
Jennings said.  
 Renaissance’s role in China will mostly be to find buyers
for assets outside the country rather than to sell Chinese
assets, he said.  
 “It doesn’t fit with our strategy to be placing deals for
Chinese companies but I would like to think in a year or so that
we will be in the mix for any big metals and mining or oil
deal,” Jennings said. “Our home markets are pan-CIS and pan-
Africa but overlaid on that is a very strong franchise in metals
and mining, oil and gas and agriculture.”  
 Renaissance has advised on deals in 18 countries in the
past 12 months, including Perth, Australia-based  Coal of Africa
Ltd. ’s sale of about 55 million pounds ($81 million) of shares
in Johannesburg, London and Sydney this week. Renaissance was
the sole adviser on a sale of a 12.5 percent stake in Guernsey,
Channel Islands-based  African Minerals  to China Railway in
Beijing on June 16.  
 Africa and the CIS will remain Renaissance’s “core
markets,” Jennings said. Economic growth in Africa is helping
to reduce the risk of violent conflict, he said.  
 “As you get growth of 6 to 8 percent, it’s very costly to
have conflict,” said Jennings. “Africa is the only region in
the world that didn’t have a single quarter of negative growth
during the crisis. For us, it’s about global convergence. With
the exception of some strange places like North Korea, Myanmar
and Somalia, there are very few countries in the world that are
not caught up in accelerating growth.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        