-- Triple Top Formation No Barrier for Loonie Gains, Bank of Montreal Says
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-17T15:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/triple-top-formation-no-barrier-for-loonie-gains-bank-of-montreal-says.html

          
          
             The Canadian dollar may appreciate
versus its U.S. counterpart even as the currency forms a so-
called triple top, usually an indicator that it’s about to
weaken, according to Bank of Montreal.  
 A triple top “usually sets up for a move the other way,”
 Blake Jespersen , director of foreign exchange at Bank of
Montreal, said by phone from Toronto. In this case, that would
mean a rising U.S. dollar. “If it can’t break through a key
level, then the trend should reverse the other way,” he said.  
 The Canadian currency has strengthened to C$1.0225 three
times in the last four trading sessions against the U.S. dollar
and each time been rebuffed. The loonie, as the currency is
known for the image of the aquatic bird on the one-dollar coin,
weakened 0.6 percent to C$1.0305 at 11:10 a.m. in Toronto.  
 “I don’t think we’re going to see a big correction in the
short term,” Jespersen said. “I think eventually we’re going
to break through there, and maybe not test parity, but maybe
take a run at C$1.01.”  
 With no “top tier” data reports out of Canada this week,
and with traders less willing to add to risk exposure than they
were when the loonie was a few cents cheaper, the currency lacks
a catalyst to move through the triple top, Jespersen said.  
 “We need continued risk appetite in the market,” he said.
“For now the market’s not liking these levels.”  
 Sovereign Debt Crisis  
 Canada’s currency reached parity with the greenback on
April 6 for the first time in almost two years as signs of an
accelerating recovery in the global economy boosted equity
markets and demand for the nation’s raw materials including
copper, gold and crude oil and prompted the nation’s central
bank to raise interest rates.  
 The loonie has weakened 2.9 percent since then as the
European sovereign-debt crisis throws doubt on the recovery,
though it’s still the third-best performer this year among the
greenback’s 16 most-traded counterparts.  
 Technical analysts study charts of trading patterns to
forecast price changes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        