-- Rubber Price Outlook Strong as Supply to Stay Tight, Producers Group Says
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-06-17T08:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/rubber-price-outlook-strong-as-supply-to-stay-tight-producers-group-says.html

          
          
             Rubber supplies from key producing
countries including Indonesia will probably remain low as
“unfavorable” weather disrupts production, supporting prices,
 the Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries  said.  
 “Unfavorable weather will have a negative influence on
supply” in June and July, Jom Jacob, senior economist at the
association, said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur today. “The
demand-and-supply situation will be favorable for prices to stay
high” this year and next, he said, without giving an estimate.  
 Rubber futures in Tokyo have rallied about 10 percent from
a five-month low on May 17 on optimism that economic expansion
in Asia and record auto production in China, the biggest vehicle
market, will drive demand for the commodity used in tires.  
 November-delivery rubber declined 3.6 percent to 275.3 yen
a kilogram ($3,018 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
today, snapping a five-day, 9.8 percent winning streak.  
 “The rubber price lately went down slightly, but I am
confident that it will not go down too much,”  Bernard Dompok ,
Malaysia’s Plantation Industries and Commodities Minister, said
today. “If you look at the fundamental factors, there’s no
change in supply and demand.”  
 The producers’ association will later this month revise
down the supply forecast for its member countries, which
represent 94 percent of global output. It projected in May that
production may expand 6.2 percent this year to 9.37 million tons.  
 “June is supposed to be a dry month for Indonesia and
India but the monsoon is going on there, disrupting tapping,”
Jacob said.  
 Strong Demand  
 Supply next year will not see a significant improvement as
some aging trees will be uprooted this year for replanting and
new trees planted in 2005 will not be mature enough to generate
high yields, said Jacob. Rubber trees take about seven years to
mature and yields remain low until the 10th year.  
 “Demand in China, India and Malaysia remains strong,”
Djoko Said Damardjati, the association’s secretary-general, said
in the same interview. The three countries account for more than
45 percent of global consumption, according to the association.  
 Natural-rubber imports by China jumped 17 percent to
602,000 tons in January to April, from the same period last year.
Demand for natural and compound rubber rose 26 percent to 1.05
million tons, the association said in its May newsletter.
Consumption of natural rubber in India during the first four
months rose 12 percent to 316,000 tons, it said.  
 China’s automobile output this year may grow by as much as
15 percent, expanding from a record to 15 million units, Gu
Xianghua, deputy general secretary of the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers, said May 29.  
 Malaysian Output  
 The association represents Cambodia, China, India, Malaysia,
Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Thailand and Vietnam.  
 Natural-rubber output in Malaysia, the third-largest grower,
may surge 17 percent this year as rising prices prompt farmers
to increase tapping, offsetting crop damage from drought, the
Malaysian Rubber Board said.  
 “Drought has had an impact on production but overall
output will increase because of price,” Salmiah Ahmad, director
general of the board, said in an interview today.  
 The nation’s production this year may climb to as much as 1
million tons, said Salmiah. That is more than the 900,000 tons
forecast by the Plantation Industries and Commodities Ministry
in May. Output last year was 856,189 tons.  
 Production is targeted to be about 1 million tons next year,
rising to 1.8 million tons by 2020, Salmiah said. Exports will
be maintained at the current level of about 1 million tons in
the long term, she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        