-- Rubber Futures Drop on Increasing Malaysian, Thai Supplies, Stronger Yen
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-06-17T08:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/rubber-declines-for-first-day-in-six-on-u-s-housing-data-stronger-yen.html

          
          
             Rubber declined for the first time
in six days as a stronger Japanese currency reduced the appeal
of yen-denominated contracts and output in major producing
countries increased.  
 Futures in Tokyo dropped after reaching a two-week high
yesterday. The yen advanced amid concern that Europe’s debt
crisis will impair the region’s economic recovery, boosting
demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  
 Natural rubber output in Malaysia, the world’s third-
largest grower, may surge 17 percent this year as rising
prices prompt farmers to increase tapping, offsetting crop
damage from drought, the Malaysian Rubber Board said. Supply
from Thailand, the largest producer and exporter, will
increase seasonally, said  Shuji Sugata , research manager at
Mitsubishi Corp. Futures Ltd. in Tokyo.  
 “Output in Thailand has been growing, leading to increased
shipments by Thai exporters,” Sugata said by phone today.
Rising supply put a drag on rubber futures, he added.  
 November-delivery rubber lost as much as 3.8 percent to
275.0 yen a kilogram ($3,016 a metric ton) before settling at
275.3 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  
 Natural rubber production this year may climb to as much
as 1 million metric tons, Salmiah Ahmad, director general of the
Malaysian  board , said in an interview. That is more than the
900,000 tons forecast by the nation’s Plantation Industries and
Commodities Ministry in May. Output last year was 856,189 tons.  
 Recovery May Slow  
 Futures also declined as a drop in U.S. housing starts
raised concerns that the economic recovery may slow, weakening
demand for the commodity used in tires.  
 Asian equities  decreased after a U.S. Commerce Department
report showed housing starts slumped 10 percent in May, the
biggest drop since March 2009.  
 “Uncertainty about the economic outlook sapped investor
interest in the commodity,” Sugata said.  
 November-delivery rubber reached 286.7 yen yesterday, the
highest level since June 1, after a report showed New York-area
manufacturing expanded for an 11th month. The price dropped to a
three-week low of 253.6 yen on June 9.  
 The yen strengthened against all 16 major counterparts on
speculation European Union leaders will discuss ways to tighten
financial-market regulation. The euro fell for a second day
versus the dollar after Spain’s central bank said it plans to
publish the results of stress tests carried out on the nation’s
lenders in order to quell speculation that it needs
international aid.  
 November-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
lost 1.7 percent to 21,455 yuan ($3,141) a ton. The market
resumed trade today after a three-day public holiday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        