-- Medvedev Says He `Cannot Rule Out' Collapse of Euro
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2010-06-18T11:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/russia-s-president-medvedev-says-he-cannot-rule-out-a-collapse-of-euro.html

          
          
             Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
says he can’t rule out the collapse of the euro as the European
Union struggles to contain the sovereign debt crisis.  
 Asked if the emergency could threaten the single currency,
Medvedev said, “So far, no. But one cannot rule out this danger
because at least a unique situation has emerged,” according to
the text of an interview with the Wall Street Journal that was
provided by the Russian government.  
 Russia will help lead the effort to recast the world
economic hierarchy after the global financial crisis, Medvedev
said today at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum.
The government will use tax incentives and other free-market
economic policies to attract investment, he said, as Russia
seeks to diversify its economy away from natural resources.  
 “We really live at a unique time, and we should use it to
build a modern, prosperous and strong Russia, a Russia that will
be a co-founder of the new world economic order,” Medvedev told
an audience that included Citigroup Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit  and French Economy Minister  Christine Lagarde .  
 Medvedev, 44, travels to the U.S. next week for talks with
U.S. President  Barack Obama  before heading to Canada for a
meeting of the Group of 20 nations. The Wall Street Journal
interview touched on issues ranging from the BP Plc oil spill in
the Gulf of Mexico to Iran and recent violence in Kyrgyzstan.  
 BP Concerns  
 The Russian president suggested the oil spill, which forced
London-based BP to set aside $20 billion for potential damages,
could lead to the breakup of the company and said he wanted to
make sure the interests of Russian shareholders in TNK-BP are
safeguarded, according to the interview text. TNK-BP, which
accounts for almost a quarter of BP’s output, is half-owned by
Russian billionaires, including  Viktor Vekselberg .  
 “How they will be able to digest these losses, whether it
will lead to annihilation of the company itself, to its break
up, this is a feasibility issue,” Medvedev said of BP. “We
would like, speaking frankly, the interests of Russian investors
that created a joint business with BP to somehow be ensured.”  
 Medvedev backed the sanctions against Iran that were passed
by the UN Security Council on June 9. The measures, which call
for a tighter arms embargo, authority to seize cargo that could
be used in nuclear weapons, and restrictions on financial
transactions with Iran, represent a balanced approach, he said.  
 “The sanctions that have been imposed are strict enough,
yet at the same time they do not harm the Iranian people,”
Medvedev said in the interview. “They may push the Iranian
leadership to, at some point, take a decision on closer
cooperation with the global community” and the International
Atomic Energy Agency.  
 ‘Unilateral Sanctions’  
 The U.S. and EU have further than the UN resolution, with
European leaders approving penalties that target the oil and gas
industry, including the prohibition of new investment, technical
assistance and technology transfers.  
 “Unilateral sanctions, be it U.S. sanctions or those of
the EU or any other countries, would worsen the situation
because they are not agreed upon with anyone,” Medvedev said.  
 Medvedev also said that the U.S. air base in Kyrgyzstan, a
key installation for American operations in Afghanistan, should
be closed down once its job is done.  
 Kyrgyzstan, a former Soviet republic, has been the scene of
sporadic violence since April, when President Kurmanbek Bakiyev
was ousted and replaced by an interim government. At least 189
people have died in fighting between Kyrgyz and Uzbek groups in
the Central Asian nation over the past seven days.  
 If the base “is needed for fighting terrorism, for
bringing order, then OK,” Medvedev said. “But it is obvious,
and it is my position and I speak openly about it, that it
should not exist forever. It should, in my opinion, resolve
concrete tasks and complete its work.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Russian President Dmitry Medvedev  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Russian President Dmitry Medvedev at a joint news conference with Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, unseen, at Meseberg Castle in Meseberg, Germany. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Russian President Dmitry Medvedev at a joint news conference with Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, unseen, at Meseberg Castle in Meseberg, Germany. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Russian President Dmitry Medvedev says he "cannot rule out" the collapse of the euro. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
