-- Senate Democrats May Boost Renewable Energy in BP Oil Spill Legislation
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-06-17T16:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/senate-democrats-to-discuss-energy-proposals-before-meeting-with-obama.html

          
          
             Senate Democrats will debate today
whether a bill that responds to  BP Plc ’s oil spill should
benefit renewable energy sources and limit greenhouse gases.  
 The closed-door meeting will gauge Democratic support for
these proposals before President  Barack Obama  brings Republicans
into talks on energy legislation next week at the White House.  
 Obama said this week that the spill, caused by a fatal
April 20 explosion on a BP-leased rig in the Gulf of Mexico,
should spur new laws to “change how we produce and use
energy.” He didn’t insist that the Senate approve legislation 
passed by the House last year that uses a cap-and-trade system
to limit emissions, saying he was open to “other ideas.”  
 While support for “clean energy” may be growing in the
wake of the spill, “we need a different approach than cap-and-
trade,” Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Democrat from Louisiana, a
Gulf state whose beaches and marshes are being fouled by the BP
spill, told reporters.  
 Landrieu, who said the spill shouldn’t be used to “shut
down the oil and gas industry,” said she hasn’t decided which
clean-energy measures to support.  
 “Any thinking American, even Americans like myself who are
pro-drilling, think that there’s got to be a better way
forward,” she said.  
 Legislation Next Month  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
June 3 he wants to bring up legislation next month that deals
with offshore oil drilling safety, compensation for businesses
and workers who have lost income because of the BP spill, and
measures to boost “domestic production of clean and renewable
alternative fuels.”  
 Democrats will be briefed today on three energy bills that
aim to boost alternatives to fossil fuels such as oil and coal,
 Jim Manley , Reid’s spokesman, said in an e-mail. He said a final
decision on what makes it into next month’s energy bill is
“unlikely” before the meeting with Obama, announced yesterday
by  Robert Gibbs , the White House press secretary.  
 Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, will put
forward at today’s meeting the proposal he unveiled last month
with Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent. Under
their plan, power plants and factories would be regulated by a
cap-and-trade program, in which companies buy and sell a
declining number of carbon dioxide allowances.  
 Carbon Allowances  
 Most allowances would be given away at first to shield
homes and businesses from higher energy bills, and some
households would be eligible for rebates. Refineries would have
to buy allowances directly from the federal government to
account for the carbon dioxide produced by cars and trucks that
burn oil-based fuels such as gasoline.  
 The two senators have said Obama’s call this week for new
laws to “tackle our addiction to fossil fuels” gives their
legislation a better chance of passing Congress this year.  
 Another plan from Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington
Democrat, puts government limits on greenhouse gases. Her “cap-
and-dividend” proposal would require fossil-fuel importers and
producers, such as coal mines, to buy carbon pollution rights
from the federal government at monthly auctions.  
 Three-quarters of the money raised from the sale of
“carbon shares,” similar to cap-and-trade allowances, would be
rebated to consumers, with the remaining 25 percent used for
“clean energy reinvestment,” such as research and development
into pollution-cutting technologies.  
 Under both the Kerry and Cantwell plans, pollution-free
energy sources such as wind turbines and solar panels would
benefit as companies that produce or burn coal, oil and natural
gas start adding the new cost of pollution rights.  
 Bingaman Plan  
 A third plan from Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico
Democrat and chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee, would require utilities to buy 15 percent of their
electricity from renewable sources such as wind, solar, and
geothermal power plants by 2021.  
 Bingaman’s legislation, which cleared the energy committee
last year, also toughens energy-efficiency standards for new
buildings, appliances and industrial equipment. While it doesn’t
directly regulate greenhouse gases, it would curb pollution
through the greater use of renewable electricity and by cutting
back on consumption, according to a  summary  of the proposal.  
 ‘Diverse Energy Standard’  
 Indiana Senator  Richard Lugar , who recently proposed a
“diverse energy standard” that would treat new nuclear
reactors and coal-fired power plants that capture and store
their carbon dioxide emissions the same as it would treat wind
farms and solar panels, will be one of the Republicans asked to
the White House next week, Gibbs said.  
 Like the Senate energy committee’s bill, Lugar’s proposal
would toughen energy-efficiency standards for new buildings,
appliances and industrial equipment. It would also raise fuel-
economy standards for new cars and trucks.  
 Lugar’s plan “explicitly builds on a lot of the provisions
we’ve reported out of our committee” on low-carbon electricity
sources and energy efficiency, Bingaman said in an interview.
Lugar said the legislation from Bingaman’s committee “has a
good number of ideas that are compatible with my own.”  
 The Lugar and Bingaman proposals could be the basis for a
“good bill,” said Alaska Senator  Lisa Murkowski , the leading
Republican on the energy committee. Murkowski, who voted for
Bingaman’s bill in the committee, said Lugar’s diverse energy
standard is “better than” the renewable mandate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        