-- Shale Game
-- John Lippert
-- 2010-06-17T15:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/shale-game.html

          
          
             Natural gas trapped in
bands of rock may deliver abundant energy and billions in
profits. Companies and environmentalists are clashing as the
world rushes to drill.  
 When Victoria Switzer awoke on a cold night in March, her dog
was staring out the window at the flame roaring from a natural-
gas-drilling rig 2,000 feet behind her house. She remembers
trees silhouetted in a demonic dance as the plume burned off gas
that had been building up under her land.  
 She discovered later that such flaring can occur when  Cabot
Oil & Gas Corp . and dozens more companies  drill  for gas trapped
in shale rock. The deposits, stretching from Texas to New York,
and as far away as Australia and China, represent what may be
the biggest energy bonanza in decades -- one that Switzer, 57,
recalls thinking the Earth isn’t surrendering without a fight,
Bloomberg Markets reports in its July issue.  
 Switzer, a retired teacher in Pennsylvania, is on the front
line of a shale gas rush that’s dividing communities, creating
millionaires and shaking up global energy markets.  
 Companies from India’s Reliance Industries Ltd. to Japan’s
Mitsui & Co. are spending billions of dollars to dislodge
natural gas from a band of Pennsylvania shale -- sedimentary
rock composed of mud, quartz and calcite.  
 Shale gas proponents, led by 91-year-old oil patch
billionaire  George Mitchell , who invented the process to extract
it, say the U.S. should plumb all forms of natural gas. That
would help unhook the nation from coal and foreign petroleum.  
 Gas is about two-thirds cheaper than oil and greener too.
It  produces  117 pounds (53 kilograms) of carbon dioxide per
million British thermal units (MMBtu) of energy equivalent
compared with 156 for gasoline and 205 for coal.  
 ‘De-OPEC-ize’  
 “This discovery will change the course of world history,
not just to de-carbonize the economy but to de-OPEC-ize it,”
 Chesapeake Energy Corp . Chief Executive Officer Aubrey McClendon
said in December in Copenhagen as the United Nations climate
conference was under way.  
 Chesapeake, based in Oklahoma City, has profited by selling
drilling rights and gas  reserves  for $10.7 billion during the
past 2 1/2 years, quadruple the $2.7 billion it paid. McClendon
-- with $33 billion in assets left to sell -- says he’s open for
business.  
 Shale gas has plenty of detractors.  Environmentalists  say
fracking, a process in which drillers blast water into a well to
shatter rock and unleash the gas, threatens pristine watersheds.
Dish, a hamlet of 180 residents north of Fort Worth, Texas, has
almost as many wells, compressors and pipelines as people.  
 ‘Children, Old People’  
 Last year, the  Texas Commission on Environmental Quality 
found benzene, which it classifies as a carcinogen, at 10,700
times the safe long-term exposure limit next to a well 6 miles
(10 kilometers) west of town on which a valve had been left
open.  
 “We have children, old people, pregnant women,” Mayor
 Calvin Tillman  says. “They’re not supposed to be subjected to
toxins.”  
 Switzer, who moved to  Dimock Township , Pennsylvania, to
build a $350,000 dream home with her husband, Jimmy, in 2004,
had no idea how shale gas would consume her village of 1,400.  
 She says she found so much methane in her well that her
water bubbled like Alka-Seltzer. Neighbor Norma Fiorentino says
methane in her well blew an 8-inch-thick (20-centimeter-thick)
concrete slab off the top. The $180 bonus Cabot paid to drill on
Switzer’s 7.2 acres (2.9 hectares) and the $900 in royalties she
gets each month don’t compensate, she says.  
 ‘Beads and Baubles’  
 “I feel like one of the Indians who sold Manhattan for
beads and baubles,” she says.  
 The economics of shale don’t look great right now for big
companies either. Natural gas prices plunged to $2.41 per MMBtu
in September 2009 from $13.69 in July 2008 as the recession cut
demand while drilling accelerated. On May 24, gas traded at
$4.04.  
 James Barrow , who invests one-ninth of his $50 billion
portfolio in energy stocks as president of Dallas-based Barrow
Hanley Mewhinney & Strauss, says leases signed as gas peaked in
2008 make drilling necessary -- even in a slump. When this new
gas hits the market, the price could again sink into the mid-$2
range, he says.  
 For companies to profit from new wells, gas has to rise to
$7.50, says  Ben Dell , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in
New York. He predicts it’s only a matter of time before firms
trim production, which he says will boost gas to $8.50 by 2011.  
 Soaring Consumption  
 If gas stays above $4, a price that lets companies cover
costs on existing wells, U.S.  output  could grow 20 percent to 65
billion cubic feet (1.8 billion cubic meters) a day from 2008
through 2030, says  Peter Wells , director of U.K. research firm
Neftex Petroleum Consultants Ltd. Shale gas production could
quadruple to more than 20 billion cubic feet, he says.  
 That would help meet rising power demand. Global energy
consumption will soar 44 percent by 2030 from 2006, the  U.S.
Energy Department  says. China and India will siphon off 28
percent by then, according to the DOE forecast.  Demand  is rising
because the planet’s population will balloon to 8.2 billion in
2030 from 6.8 billion today.  
 Hydroelectric, wind and other renewable sources will plug
only part of the  gap : They’ll contribute 17 percent of U.S.
electricity generation by 2035 from 9.1 percent in 2009, the DOE
says.  
 “Taking advantage of the new natural gas finds, the shale
finds, would be an important piece of how we begin to break our
dependence on foreign oil,”  Carol Browner , President  Barack Obama ’s senior energy adviser, told a Washington audience in
April.  
 Investors Primed  
 Investors are primed for a boom. Chesapeake’s  shares  fell
47 percent from the beginning of 2008 to $20.75 on May 24 as gas
prices sank. Bernstein’s Dell predicted in mid-May that shares
would rise to $34 during the next 12 months while companies curb
output, reducing supply as rebounding economies demand more
energy.  
 The stock prices of Chesapeake and fellow gas developers
 Petrohawk  Energy Corp. and  Range  Resources Corp. don’t reflect
the firms’ shale holdings, says  David Heikkinen , a Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. analyst in Houston.  
 Fort Worth-based Range has assets valued at $65 a share, he
says, a third more than its May 24 stock  price  of $42.47.  
 Range began plumbing the  Marcellus  shale that underlies New
York,  Pennsylvania  and West Virginia in 2004. The band of rock -
- so designated because it pokes through the surface near a city
of that name in northern New York -- may contain 262 trillion
cubic feet of recoverable gas, the DOE  estimates . The U.S. uses
20 TCF annually, mostly for power plants and home heating.  
 That means the Marcellus shale alone could supply America’s
needs for more than a decade.  
 Getting a Bargain  
 Range CEO  John Pinkerton  says he got a bargain when his
company paid $1,000 an acre for Marcellus drilling rights near
Pittsburgh starting in 2004. India’s Reliance paid 14 times more
in April, a price Pinkerton says he wouldn’t consider.  
 “If I sold today for $14,000 an acre, I’d be selling for a
quarter of what it’s worth,” Pinkerton told investors in April.  
 Range has 200 wells in Washington County south of
Pittsburgh and may add another 4,300 in the county over 10
years.  
 Even oil and coal companies are raising their bets on gas.
In December,  Exxon Mobil Corp.  agreed to pay $41 billion in
stock and assumed debt for Fort Worth-based  XTO Energy  Inc., the
biggest U.S. gas producer.  
 Outside North America, unexplored geology and nonexistent
pipelines make it harder to gauge how much shale gas exists.  
 “Regions including China, India, Australia and Europe are
thought to hold large resources,” the  International Energy
Agency  said in November.  
 Liking the Odds  
 Firms are taking those odds. European oil giants  BP  Plc and
 Royal Dutch Shell  Plc are looking in China.  Chevron  Corp.,
 ConocoPhillips  and Exxon purchased drilling licenses in Poland.  
 “Companies are rushing to get the last available
license,” says  Henryk Jacek Jezierski , Poland’s chief national
geologist.  
 Consol Energy Inc. , the second-largest U.S. coal producer
by  market value , owns land near Pittsburgh that’s in the heart
of Marcellus shale. It also bought shale assets valued at $4.4
billion in April. CEO  Brett Harvey  says coal will remain the
bedrock of the U.S. economy far into the future. He’s not
ignoring gas.  
 Because Consol already owns the Pittsburgh-area property,
it can charge as little as $3.71 MMBtu for gas and still earn a
20 percent after-tax return, he says. Firms forced to pay $5,000
an acre for drilling rights and a 20 percent leasing royalty
would have to charge $5.18, he says.  
 “If there’s a flood of gas at $4, guess who’s going to
produce it?” Harvey says. “We are.”  
 Managing a Windfall  
 Pennsylvania is no stranger to energy euphoria. Edwin Drake
drilled the world’s first successful  oil well  in 1859 in
Titusville, 240 miles west of the Switzers’ home in Dimock. Now
it’s learning to manage its latest windfall.  
 In October, companies will be required to disclose the
chemical composition of fracking water, says  John Hanger ,
secretary of Pennsylvania’s  Department  of Environmental
Protection. The department is doubling its number of oil and gas
enforcers to 193.  
 Switzer says it’s about time. She says she’s had nothing
but trouble since Houston-based Cabot arrived in 2006. It sank
50 wells in 2009 and plans 81 this year. Convoys loaded with
drilling rigs, pipes and compressors crisscross the village. Her
creek ran red with spilled diesel after a truck slid on ice and
hit a tree. Some neighbors are moving. Switzer wants Cabot shut
down instead.  
 “They said we’d never notice the drilling,” she says of
Cabot. “Now, we won’t be able to remember when they weren’t
here.”  
 Methane Migration  
 The Switzers and 31 neighbors are suing Cabot for
negligence. The company had until June 1 to respond. Cabot
spokesman  George Stark  declined to comment on the suit.  
 Separately, and without acknowledging any wrongdoing, Cabot
 agreed  with Pennsylvania officials on April 15 to stop drilling
in Dimock for a year, cap three wells with casings that the
state deemed defective and pay a $240,000 fine.  
 Ken Komoroski , a Cabot attorney, says there’s no proof
drilling polluted Dimock’s water. He says loose soil collapsed
at a well, snapping the drilling pipe and dragging the bit 1,700
feet (520 meters) underground. Methane may have migrated through
the cavity into aquifers as Cabot recovered the bit, he says.
Cabot now tests for methane and uses latex to ensure well
casings are cemented properly.  
 ‘More Like Texas’  
 “In the big picture, drilling is going very well,”
Komoroski says. “Pennsylvania is going to look more like
Texas.”  
 Shale gas pioneer Mitchell can take credit if that happens.
His parents, Greek immigrants who ran a dry cleaning store, put
him through Texas A&M University, where he majored in geology
and petroleum engineering. In 1946, he started consulting for a
company he later bought and renamed  Mitchell Energy  &
Development Corp.  
 Mitchell knew gas had become embedded in  shale , the most
common sedimentary rock, when ancient seabeds were covered and
compressed by erosion. Starting in 1981, he experimented with
drilling down and then horizontally. He fracked the wells,
pumping fluid to blast out the gas -- testing the method
sparking today’s boom.  
 “We tried propane, diesel, anything you can think of,”
says Mitchell, who uses a motorized scooter to zip around in his
Houston office, where he greets emissaries from China and Europe
who have been bitten by the shale bug. “Water with a small
amount of sand worked best.”  
 Better Bet  
 By 1993, Mitchell had developed shale gas extraction into
a viable business. Rivals didn’t pay attention until prices rose
in tandem with oil and passed $4 a decade later. Mitchell sold
his company to Oklahoma City-based  Devon Energy Corp.  for $3.1
billion in 2002. Since then, he has invested $25 million in  Alta
Resources LLC , which has five wells near Montrose in
northeastern Pennsylvania and may drill 500 more.  
 Mitchell says shale gas is a better bet than oil. A typical
gas well near Fort Worth costs $4 million and is virtually
assured of success. In the Gulf of Mexico, oil companies spend
$300 million drilling through 1,000 feet of water and 35,000
feet of rock and can still come up empty.  
 “They decided they better start working on shale gas,”
he says.  
 Persistent Risk  
 The U.S. Congress is investigating offshore drilling for a
more tragic reason. On April 20, an  explosion  at a BP oil rig
began spewing at least 5,000 barrels of crude a day. The
 disaster  killed 11 people, wiped $58.3 billion off BP’s value as
of May 24 and prompted the governors of Florida and California
to withdraw support for ocean drilling.  
 While Chesapeake’s McClendon, 50, expects offshore drilling
to become more difficult, shale gas has its own drawbacks,
Neftex’s Wells says.  
 “With deep-water exploration, there is a very small risk
of a catastrophic event,” he says. “With shale gas, there is a
persistent risk of long-term contamination of groundwater. This
doesn’t have easy-to-see TV imagery, like oiled-up seabirds. It
needs scientific explanation for which the public is not
trained.”  
 The Doghouse  
 BP had started  looking  for gas before the oil spill. In
2008, it paid Chesapeake $1.75 billion for rights on 90,000
acres near Stuart, Oklahoma, 100 miles south of Tulsa. BP has
since tripled initial output from wells on this land to 10
million cubic feet a day.  
 On a sunny February afternoon, workers  prepare  new wells
using a road grader to scrape flat a 5-acre patch called the
drill pad. They’ll cover the area with rubber and surround it
with 18-inch-high berms to contain any spilled liquid from
fracking or drilling debris. They’ll bore as many as eight wells
in the pad.  
 From a 14-story white rig with a blue platform, workers in
a control room called the doghouse use computers to manipulate
hydraulic lifts that arrange 30-foot sections of black pipe into
rows. Mechanical claws screw one pipe to a volleyball-size drill
bit studded with diamonds and the other pipes to each other. An
11-ton rotating clamp called a top drive pushes the pieces into
the pad to start the well.  
 Within 10 Feet  
 The bit and drilling pipes, which are surrounded by three
rings of metal casings cemented in place to protect aquifers, go
down 8,000 feet. Workers activate a motor in the pipe, which has
a slight bend near the bit, so that 1,000 feet of drilling
produces a 90-degree turn.  
 After probing for 3 miles, the driller, from his perch in
the doghouse, can place the bit within 10 feet of his target,
says  Bryant Chapman , BP’s vice president for North American gas
operations.  
 Next comes fracking. Workers park 40 tractor-trailers
loaded with pumps, sand, chemicals and portable containment
tanks on the pad and spend three days blasting 5 million gallons
(19 million liters) of water into the well.  
 As much as 40 percent flows back out. In Texas, the water
is injected into underground rock. In Pennsylvania, which lacks
suitable deep-rock formations, the water gets recycled or goes
to treatment plants.  
 Fracking worries people far from Stuart and Dimock. New
York City serves 8 million residents from a  watershed  so
pristine it’s exempt from federal filtration requirements.  
 Fracking Concern  
 A consulting firm hired by the city, Hazen & Sawyer PC,
said in December that chemicals from fracked wells could have a
catastrophic impact. Some, like pesticide 2,2-dibromo-3-
nitrilopropionamide, are toxic. Each well needs 82 tons of
assorted chemicals for reasons such as killing bacteria and
inhibiting corrosion, the report says. New York has banned shale
gas drilling statewide until it adopts new rules.  
 “We firmly believe, based on the best available science
and current industry and technological practices, that drilling
cannot be permitted in the city’s watershed,” Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said in an  April press release.   
 Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  
 Range CEO Pinkerton says New York’s leaders are ignoring
facts.  
 “They’re cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs,” he says, quoting a
1960s breakfast cereal slogan.  
 Squaring Off  
 Pinkerton, 56, says all Marcellus wells that will ever be
built will use less water than one nuclear plant and that damage
from coal mines is much worse than shale drilling.  
 As the drilling debate intensifies, shale gas supporters
and opponents are squaring off along the Delaware River, the
 waterway  U.S. General  George Washington  crossed on Christmas Day
in 1776 to defeat Hessian mercenaries.  
 In April, Pennsylvania issued a permit for the first of up
to nine exploratory shale wells in the river basin for New York-
based  Hess Corp.  and Houston-based  Newfield  Exploration Co. The
first well will be 2.5 miles west of the Delaware and 15 miles
north of  Honesdale .  
 Pat Carullo  says drilling is a beast that can’t be tamed.
Carullo, 56, co-founded  Damascus  Citizens for Sustainability,
which wants case-by-case reviews of new wells.  
 “The gas industry thought they could spread money around
like pimps and drill anywhere in the watershed,” he says.
“I’ll be dead before that happens.”  
 Preserving the Farm  
 Marian Schweighofer , executive director of the  Northern
Wayne Property Owners Alliance , is rooting for shale gas. If
commercial drilling is banned in the river basin, she’d lose out
on income for the 712-acre farm in Tyler Hill that’s been in her
family for four generations. Marian and her husband Edward, both
54, have gotten $500,000 from Hess so far.  
 Jack Ivey is contemplating the riches shale gas can bring.
He leased 111 acres in Montrose to Mitchell’s Alta for $310,800.
Ivey, 80, hopes for at least $346 a day from the first well if
gas prices hold up. Royalties may reach $1,734 a day with five
more wells.  
 “Hopefully, I’ll live five or six years so I can get some
of this money,” he says.  
 Mitchell predicts companies will win public support for
drilling in Pennsylvania the way they did in Texas.  
 “With money,” he says, and pauses, as if no elaboration
is needed.  
 Learning From Dimock  
 Billions of dollars -- and energy for the 21st century --
are at stake. In Australia, Beach Energy Ltd. wants to explore
an area that may hold 200 TCF of shale gas. China may produce a
quarter of its gas from shale deposits in the next 20 years, the
DOE says.  
 Before Schweighofer’s group signed on for drilling, members
toured Dimock and met Victoria Switzer. They hired a lawyer and
insisted on stronger well casings than Pennsylvania requires and
that farmers be allowed to keep drilling equipment out of their
best fields.  
 Switzer, now a shale gas veteran, says she hopes the world
can learn from her and her neighbors that there are costs as
well as benefits from unlocking a treasure the Earth has guarded
for hundreds of millions of years.  
 John Lippert  is a senior writer on Bloomberg Markets at
 jlippert@bloomberg.net   
 #<535521.2245115.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jun/17/2010 15:45 GMT
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Victoria Switzer says gas drilling has disrupted her retirement in Pennsylvania. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
