-- Shinsei CFO Gupta Said to Consider Leaving After Kamei Blasts Pay Levels
-- Finbarr Flynn
-- 2010-06-17T08:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/shinsei-cfo-gupta-said-to-consider-leaving-after-kamei-blasts-pay-levels.html

          
          
             Shinsei Bank Ltd.  Chief Financial
Officer  Rahul Gupta  may resign following government criticism of
the company’s compensation policy, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  
 Gupta, 50, is under pressure from the Financial Services
Agency to step down, the person said, declining to be identified
because the matter is private. Gupta joined Shinsei in 2005, and
previously worked at Singapore’s  DBS Group Holdings Ltd.   
 Former Financial Services Minister  Shizuka Kamei  last month
called annual compensation in excess of 100 million yen
($1.1 million) for non-Japanese executives at Shinsei
“exorbitant.” The bank, part owned by U.S. investor J.
 Christopher Flowers , on May 14 posted a second consecutive
annual loss and said it will “overhaul”  management .  
 Gupta’s annual compensation exceeds 100 million yen, the
person said, declining to be more specific. Kamei, who resigned
this month, didn’t single out any Shinsei managers in his
comments about the bank’s pay policies. The government owned 24
percent of Shinsei as of March 31.  
 Shinsei is preparing to announce new management, said James
Seddon, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based bank. He declined to
comment on Gupta. Financial Services Agency spokesman  Motoyuki Yufu  declined to comment.  
 The Yomiuri Newspaper earlier today reported Gupta and
three other senior executives were in talks to resign. Shinsei
shares fell 1.1 percent to 91 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
Tokyo Stock Exchange trading.  
 Aozora Breakup  
 Shinsei  in May ended 10 months of merger talks with Aozora
Bank Ltd., controlled by Cerberus Capital Management LP, after
the two banks failed to agree on business strategies and Aozora
balked at Shinsei’s lower capital levels. Shinsei, which
reported 283 billion yen in combined losses in the last two
years, named  Shigeki Toma  to replace  Masamoto Yashiro  as chief
executive officer in May.  
 Toma said this month senior officers will be stepping down
because of the bank’s losses, and that the departures will help
cut personnel costs. He declined to name which executives.  
 The incoming CEO reiterated a goal of raising as much as
100 billion yen in a share sale this year to boost capital. Toma
wants to increase the bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio to 8 percent
from 6.35 percent, the lowest among Japan’s eight nationwide
lenders at the end of March. He plans to wait until the
company’s share price rises above 100 yen before selling more
stock.  
 Shinsei  in the year ended March booked 104.7 billion yen in
charges related to its consumer finance business, 70.2 billion
yen in costs for its real estate business and 18.9 billion yen
in losses and credit costs on overseas investments.  
 Fitch Ratings on May 11 cut Shinsei’s credit rating two
levels to BB+, non-investment grade, citing an unclear business
strategy and the risk that the quality of its assets may
deteriorate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Rahul Gupta, chief financial officer of Shinsei Bank  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A file photograph shows Rahul Gupta, chief financial officer of Shinsei Bank Ltd., speaking during an interview in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A file photograph shows Rahul Gupta, chief financial officer of Shinsei Bank Ltd., speaking during an interview in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
