-- Singapore's Exports Rise for Seventh Month on Electronics, Aiding Rebound
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-06-17T05:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/singapore-s-exports-rise-for-seventh-month-on-electronics-aiding-rebound.html

          
          
             Singapore’s exports rose for a
seventh month in May as a surge in electronics shipments offset
declining overseas sales of pharmaceuticals.  
 Non-oil domestic  exports  climbed 24.4 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 30 percent gain in April, the trade
promotion agency said in a statement in Singapore today. The
median forecast of 10 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News was
for an increase of 25.7 percent.  
 Singapore has raised its growth forecast twice this year as
overseas demand for its computer chips and manufactured goods
recovers from last year’s slump. The island’s economy expanded
an annualized 38.6 percent from the previous three months in the
first quarter.  
 Higher exports in May “will set the stage for an
encouraging outcome in production as well as  gross domestic
product ” for this quarter,  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before the report.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest
contract manufacturer of computer chips, said this week global
chip-industry sales will climb almost 30 percent in 2010, higher
than an April forecast of 22 percent.  
 Electronics shipments  by companies including Venture Corp.,
Singapore’s biggest electronics contract manufacturer, climbed
38.9 percent in May from a year earlier to S$5.4 billion ($3.9
billion), after a revised 21.2 percent gain the previous month.  
 Pharmaceutical Sales  
 Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, jumped 16.2 percent. Pharmaceutical shipments
fell 32.8 percent after dropping 27.8 percent in April.  
 The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as  Sanofi-
Aventis SA  can cause  industrial output  to fluctuate from month
to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for cleaning
before making different products.  
 Singapore’s non-oil  exports  fell a seasonally adjusted 0.1
percent last month from April, when they gained a revised 2.5
percent, today’s report showed.  
 Sales to the European Union, Singapore’s biggest export
market, grew at a slower pace last month, climbing 5.7 percent
from a year earlier compared with a 21.3 percent increase in
April.  
 “One of the key risks for Singapore trade we see is the
potential spillover impact of the Europe sovereign-debt crisis
on trade flows and trade financing to the region,” said  Alvin Liew , an economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore.
“Singapore, being very trade-dependent compared to many of the
regional economies, could be one of the first to manifest the
‘Europe debt effect’ in its trade data.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        