-- Slovak Government Postpones Signing Agreement on Euro-Region Rescue Fund
-- Radoslav Tomek
-- 2010-06-17T15:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/slovak-government-says-it-delays-signing-of-euro-region-rescue-fund-accord.html

          
          
             Slovakia’s government postponed
signing on to a rescue fund designed to stem the spread of
Europe’s debt crisis as it waits for approval from the parties
that plan to form the next Cabinet.  
 “We will sign it only if the new coalition gives us a
clear mandate to do so,” Finance Minister  Jan Pociatek  said
today in a text message responding to a question from Bloomberg.  
 Prime Minister  Robert Fico ’s cabinet had planned to sign
yesterday the European Financial Stability Facility, a fund that
is backed by 440 billion euros ($545 billion) in national
guarantees. The fund will be established once 90 percent of the
commitments are made. Since Slovakia’s share is 4.4 billion
euros, the fund can operate without the country’s approval.  
 The SDKU, the largest of four parties seeking to form a
government after June 12 parliamentary elections, opposes
participating in the plan because of pressing financial needs at
home. The other three parties haven’t stated their positions.  
 “The stance of SDKU is clear” in opposing the package,
SDKU leader  Iveta Radicova , nominated by her party to lead the
new government, said yesterday in an interview. “It’s after the
elections, so it should be upon a new coalition to decide. I
can’t tell you what the stance of the new coalition will be
since it hasn’t been officially created yet.”  
 The fund is part of a 750 billion-euro aid package that
European Union finance ministers hammered out to combat the
region’s sovereign debt crisis. An additional 60 billion euros
will come from the European Commission -- the EU’s executive arm
-- and 250 billion euros from the International Monetary Fund.  
 Domestic Pledges  
 SDKU and the three other parties in the potential coalition
campaigned on a platform of cutting the deficit, which widened
last year to 6.8 percent of gross domestic product, more than
triple the original target.  
 The European Commission forecast in May that Slovak state
debt will rise to 44 percent of GDP. By comparison, Greek debt
may advance to 134 percent, according to the commission.  
 “It’s quite understandable that parties with a
conservative fiscal agenda believe that these principles should
apply to the whole of Europe,” said  Lars Christensen , an
economist at Danske Bank SA in Copenhagen. “But it would be
very hard to run away from the previous government’s
commitment.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        