-- Smithfield Plans to Curb Hog Hedging in Favor of Cash Market After Loss
-- Shruti Date Singh
-- 2010-06-17T21:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/smithfield-plans-to-curb-hog-hedging-in-favor-of-cash-market-after-loss.html

          
          
             Smithfield Foods Inc. , the world’s
largest pork processor, is curbing the use of hog futures in
favor of the cash market after losses and shareholder
complaints, Chief Executive Officer  C. Larry Pope  said.  
 A rise in hog futures in April helped lead to a $58.1
million unfavorable mark-to-market adjustment in the hog
production segment’s open derivative contracts, Pope said today
on a conference call. The shares declined 6.7 percent, the
biggest drop since Oct. 1.  
 “We will live closer to the cash market,” Pope said on
the call to discuss fiscal  fourth-quarter earnings . “We have
heard loudly from many shareholders. There is a common belief
that this is impossible to model and the mark-to-market on this
is so dramatic to earnings that it distorts them to the point
that many shareholders are frustrated.”  
 The new strategy will reduce the benefit the Smithfield,
Virginia-based company receives from the futures market, Pope
said. Smithfield may be more active in grains futures, he said.  
 The company reported fourth-quarter earnings, excluding
some items, of 18 cents a share in the three months through May
2. The  average estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a profit of 16 cents.  
 Smithfield also said it offered about $200 million to buy
out the 51 percent interest in U.S. turkey producer Butterball
LLC from its joint venture partner, Maxwell Farms.  
 Butterball Offer  
 Smithfield also has offered to sell its 49 percent stake in
Butterball to its partner, the company said in a statement.  
 If Smithfield buys the stake, the accord would require the
company to retire about $215 million of Butterball’s debt. A
decision will be made by September, Smithfield said.  
 The company has been “unhappy” with the Butterball’s
margins, Pope said on the conference call.  
 Smithfield  fell $1.17 to $16.35 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have gained 7.6
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        