-- South Africa Says State Workers Are Unlikely to Strike During World Cup
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-06-17T13:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/south-africa-says-state-workers-are-unlikely-to-strike-during-world-cup.html

          
          
             South Africa’s government said it
expects independent mediators to help resolve a wage dispute
with unions representing about 1.3 million public employees and
avert a strike during the soccer World Cup.  
 “Engagements are at a mature level,” Alex Mahapa, a
deputy director-general in the Department of Public Service and
Administration, said in a telephone interview from Pretoria
today. “We can help each other find a solution.” A strike
during the World Cup is unlikely, he said.  
 Fourteen unions, which represent workers including teachers
and nurses, are demanding 8.6 percent pay raises and monthly
housing allowances of 1,000 rand ($132). The government is
offering 6.5 percent and 620 rand allowances.  
 The unions declared a formal dispute on June 9 and
independent mediators have 30 days from that date to end the
impasse, after which a strike may be called if they don’t. The
World Cup, which is being held on African soil for the first
time and is expected to attract about 300,000 foreign visitors,
is due to end on July 11.  
 The mediation process will be discussed at a meeting
tomorrow, Mhapa said.  
 “There isn’t a massive gulf” between what the state is
offering and what the unions want, Chris Klopper, chairman of
the Independent Labor Caucus that groups 10 unions representing
about 460,000 workers, said in a telephone interview from
Pretoria. “No one is speaking about a strike at this stage. I
believe there is common ground that can be reached.”  
 Last month, South Africa’s state-owned transportation
company, Transnet Ltd., increased its workers’ pay by 11 percent
to end an 18-day strike. South Africa’s  inflation  rate was 4.8
percent in April.  
 The government, whose wage bill has doubled over the past
five fiscal years to 259 billion rand, says it must rein in
increases if it is to improve health, education and other
services.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Johannesburg at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        