-- Sovereign Debt Induced Volatility: Chart of the Day
-- Liz Capo McCormick
-- 2010-06-17T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/sovereign-debt-induced-volatility-is-similar-to-subprime-chart-of-the-day.html

          
          
             “Fear of the unknown” fallout from
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, similar to the concern at the
start of the subprime-mortgage market collapse, is keeping
volatility high in financial markets, according to  Jim Bianco .  
 The top panel of the CHART OF THE DAY shows the Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, which began a
rebounded from an over-two-year low in April amid investor
concern that Greece’s debt crisis would spread across the
region. In the bottom panel is a graph of interest-rate
volatility, as measured by the Barclays Plc Swaption Volatility
Index. Swaptions are options on interest-rate swaps.  
 “The fear is that the European banks are on the hook for
big losses should there have to be a restructuring of European
debt,” Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, said during a
radio interview yesterday with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg
Surveillance.” “This is akin to the early part of the subprime
problem when we were basically asking, ‘What is a subprime
loan?’ ‘Who has subprime loans?’ and ‘Who is exposed?’ It is
again the fear of the unknown that is going to keep the
volatility in the markets high.”  
 Last month the European Union crafted a $1 trillion aid
package to support the region’s most indebted nations and the
European Central Bank began buying bonds of member states.  
 European banks had $254 billion of loans to the governments
of Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain at the end of 2009,
according to figures from the  Bank for International
Settlements . That’s only 16 percent of the banks’ overall
exposure to the four countries of $1.58 trillion, which includes
loans to individuals and companies, the BIS estimates.  
 Volatility increased in 2007 as shares of financial
companies slid as the subprime mortgage market faltered. Bear
Stearns Cos., which JPMorgan Chase & Co. bought in March 2008,
said in June 2007 that one of its hedge funds plunged because of
subprime mortgage investments. French bank BNP Paribas SA halted
withdrawals from three funds holding U.S. subprime assets two
months later because it was couldn’t fairly value holdings.  
 (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        