-- Spain Sells Maximum Target at $4.3 Billion Debt Auction
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-06-17T10:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/spain-sells-3-billion-euros-of-10-year-479-million-euros-of-30-year-bonds.html

          
          
             Spain sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3
billion) of bonds, the maximum set for the auction, easing
concern that it will struggle to finance looming debt
maturities. Stocks and bonds and the euro rallied.  
 Spain sold 3 billion euros of 10-year debt at an average
yield of 4.864 percent, less than the 5.04 percent that the
bonds traded at today before the sale. Demand was 1.89 times the
amount on offer. It also sold 479.2 million euros of 30-year
debt at 5.908 percent, and the  bid -to-cover ratio was 2.45,
higher than the 1.38 at the previous sale on March 18.  
 Spain, which faces debt redemptions of 24.7 billion euros
in July, is trying to convince investors it can cut the third-
largest deficit in the euro region, while propping up the
country’s savings banks and lifting the economy out of a two-
year  slump . Spanish bonds rose after the sale and the yield
premium investors demand to buy the debt over German bunds
narrowed from a euro-era high yesterday.  
 “The strong demand for Spanish bonds should help restore
confidence,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , fixed income strategist at
Societe Generale in Paris. “The good demand was only possible
after considerable cheapening of Spanish bonds over the past
days.”  
 Yield Premium Declines  
 The  extra interest  investors demand to hold Spanish debt
rather than equivalent German bonds narrowed to 206 basis point.
That spread surged to 221 yesterday, the highest since before
the start of the euro, on speculation in the press that Spain
would need to tap a European Union financial lifeline. The gap
compared with 160 basis points at the end of May.  
 The yield on the Spanish 10-year bond fell 11 basis points
to 4.761 percent at 10:45 a.m. in London. Credit-default swaps
on Spanish government debt fell 5 basis points to 254, according
to CMA DataVision prices. Spain’s  Ibex  share index rose 1.4
percent to 9,818, increasing twice as much as  European  shares.  
 The euro, which has fallen almost 14 percent this year, on
concern that swelling budget deficits could leave countries such
as Spain struggling to finance their debts, rose to $1.2378 from
$1.2311.  
 Banking stocks also rose after Bank of Spain Governor
Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said yesterday the central bank
will publish stress tests on lenders to “provide the markets
with a perfectly clear idea of the situation of the Spanish
banking system.” International capital markets are “closed”
for most Spanish companies and lenders, Francisco Gonzalez,
chairman of Spain’s second-largest lender  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA  said June 14.  
 Stress Tests  
 “A very strong set of results,”  Sean Maloney , a fixed
income strategist at Nomura International Plc in London, said
about the auction. “A big concession in the lead-up and news
that Bank of Spain is keen to publish stress test results on
banks probably shored up confidence.”  
 Today’s auction comes as European Union leaders meet in
Brussels to advance their plan to establish a 750 billion-euro
financial backstop to support high-deficit nations such as Spain
and defend the euro. Spain has said it doesn’t need help, and
that it will have no problem facing the July redemptions, which
are the heaviest for the rest of the year.  
 Spain’s debt burden is lower as a proportion of gross
domestic product than in Germany or France. Public debt amounted
to 53 percent of GDP last year, compared with a euro-region
average of 79 percent. The July bond redemption of 16.2 billion
euros is the last until April 2011, leaving 32 billion euros of
maturing treasury bills spread out over the rest of the year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Strong demand for Spanish bonds may help restore confidence. Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
