-- Spain Will Back Down on Solar Cut Plans, Fotowatio Renewable Chief Says
-- Marc Roca
-- 2010-06-17T16:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/spain-will-back-down-on-solar-cut-plans-fotowatio-renewable-chief-says.html

          
          
             The Spanish government will back
down from its plan to cut revenue for most existing solar-energy
plants that threatens to bankrupt hundreds of operators, the
head of Fotowatio Renewable Futures said.  
 “It wasn’t a concrete proposal,” Rafael Benjumea, chief
executive officer of the Madrid-based solar-plant operator, said
in an interview. Benjumea met deputy industry minister  Pedro Marin  yesterday to discuss the plan. “We are confident that the
government will rectify its approach and won’t approve a decree
with any element of retroactivity,” Benjumea said.  
 Spain plans to cut the revenue by 30 percent for existing
solar-panel installations and subsidized prices for new plants
by as much as 45 percent,  Tomas Diaz , director of external
relations at the Photovoltaic Industry Association in Madrid,
said yesterday.  
 The government expects to reduce energy costs by about 1
billion euros ($1.24 billion) as a result of the cuts, according
to an industry ministry spokesman.  
 Solar executives, whose companies have invested more than
18 billion euros in the last three years in Spain, have pressed
the government for weeks to maintain prices guaranteed for 25
years under a 2007 law. They now plan to challenge the decision
in court, Diaz said.  
 Banks are also on the hook after financing up to 80 percent
of the cost of installing Spanish solar plants.  
 ‘Locked in’  
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA was the biggest lender,
with $3 billion of loans to photovoltaic and solar thermal
plants, while Banco Santander SA has $2.3 billion and Caja
Madrid has $1.9 billion, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data show.  
 Solar developers “are locked into a capital structure and
have no way to change their costs,”  Jenny Chase , New Energy
Finance’s head of solar energy analysis, said. “This is
trouble.”  
 Solaria Energia y Medio Ambiente SA , a solar-panel
operator, closed unchanged at 1.72 euros a share in Madrid. The
stock has lost 32 percent this year as investors avoided the
company after the government said it will cut solar prices.  
 Benjumea said he is due to meet industry ministry officials
next week for further talks on changes to the renewable energy
subsidy regime.  
 “There is still scope for negotiation,” GA Solar Managing
Director Jorge Barredo said. “Quite a few royal decrees have
been have been modified on the very last day before approval, so
there’s time.”  
 Spain introduced the subsidies for solar power in 2007 as
it sought to nurture new sources of economic growth as its
housing sector waned. The government has begun to prune that
plan as investors dump Spanish assets on concern the state will
struggle to control its budget deficit.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
government bonds rather than the benchmark German bund touched a
euro-era record 2.33 percentage points today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        