-- Station Casinos to Battle Creditors Over Proposed Delay of Aug. 6 Auction
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-06-17T19:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/station-casinos-to-battle-creditors-over-proposed-delay-of-aug-6-auction.html

          
          
             Station Casinos Inc. , the biggest
U.S. gambling company in bankruptcy, will defend its Aug. 6
auction in court against a challenge from low-ranking creditors
who want the bidding halted while they pursue appeals.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Gregg Zive  scheduled a hearing for
June 21 to decide whether to halt the auction while creditors
try to overturn his decision to allow a sale of part of the
company.  
 The committee of unsecured creditors and Station managers
filed dueling court papers on whether a halt would benefit or
hurt the company and its creditors, who are owed about $4
billion. Any delay in the auction would harm the company’s
effort to negotiate with its creditors, Station said yesterday.  
 A halt “would significantly derail these efforts and at
the very least significantly increase the administrative
expenses of the estates,” Station said in its filing, referring
to legal fees paid while the company remains in bankruptcy.  
 Zive is overseeing Station’s reorganization, which involves
breaking the Las Vegas-based company into two parts, both of
which would be taken over and reassembled by a partnership led
by company Chairman  Frank Fertitta  and his brother, Vice
Chairman  Lorenzo Fertitta . The Fertittas and their partners,
including some company lenders, must first win the Aug. 6
auction for a majority of Station’s 18 casinos.  
 Their initial bid is valued at $772 million. Another group
of five resorts would be taken over by the Fertittas and their
partners without an auction in exchange for a cash payment and
the cancellation of some bank debt.  
 The creditors’ committee has appealed Zive’s June 4 order
allowing the auction, claiming the bidding rules are designed to
benefit the Fertittas.  
 The case is In re Station Casinos Inc., 09-52477, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Reno, Nevada, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        