-- State Suits Challenging Health Law Are Premature, Show No Harm, U.S. Says
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-06-17T13:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/state-suits-challenging-health-law-are-premature-show-no-harm-u-s-says.html

          
          
             The lawsuit brought by 20 states
challenging the health-care law signed by President  Barack Obama 
is premature and fails to identify any injury the states have
suffered, the U.S. said, asking a judge to dismiss the case.  
 The minimum-coverage provision of the law is within the
rights of Congress, the U.S. wrote in a motion filed yesterday
in federal court in Pensacola, Florida. Any injuries to state
budgets fall short of the imminent harm required to bring a
claim, the government said.  
 “The provision will not take effect until 2014, and it is
entirely speculative whether the individual plaintiffs will be
injured,” the U.S. wrote.  
 The states claim in their March lawsuit that the
legislation places an unconstitutional burden on their budgets
by expanding Medicaid, the federal-state program that provides
health care for the poor. Virginia sued separately, contending
that a requirement that people buy health insurance exceeds
Congress’s powers.  
 “The federal government is threatening our state
sovereignty with this unprecedented expansion of federal powers
and commandeering of state resources,” Florida Attorney General
 Bill McCollum  said today in a statement. “This is not
acceptable.”  
 Joining Florida in the suit were Alabama, Colorado, Idaho,
Louisiana, Michigan, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, South Carolina,
South Dakota, Texas, Utah and Washington. The suit was amended
to include Alaska, Arizona, Georgia, Indiana, Mississippi,
Nevada and South Dakota. In addition, the  National Federation of
Independent Business , a small-business lobbying group, joined
Florida’s legal challenge.  
 The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        