-- Swaps-Desk Ban Opposed by Democrats' Coalition as Increasing Systemic Risk
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-06-17T21:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/swaps-desk-ban-opposed-by-democrats-coalition-as-increasing-systemic-risk.html

          
          
             A coalition of U.S. House Democrats
asked their colleagues to remove a derivatives rule from the
financial-regulation overhaul bill, intensifying the debate over
the provision in the days before its final consideration.  
 Forty-three members of the  New Democrat Coalition , a group
of 69 self-described “moderate, pro-growth” lawmakers, sent
negotiators a letter today opposing Senator  Blanche   Lincoln ’s
plan to ban commercial banks from operating swaps-trading desks.  
 The provision “would increase systemic risk by forcing
derivatives transactions into less regulated and less
capitalized institutions and impede effective regulatory
oversight of the derivatives market,” the group wrote in the
letter to congressional leaders and members of the House-Senate
panel assigned to merge the two chambers’ versions of the bill.  
 The New Democrats are now aligned with a group of New York
Democrats opposing the provision, which may threaten its
inclusion in the final bill. House and Senate Democrats are
attempting retain votes needed in each chamber needed to pass
the most sweeping regulatory overhaul since the 1930s.  
 Opponents and supporters of the swaps-desk rule, known by
its legislative shorthand Section 716, have mobilized in recent
days. Lincoln, an Arkansas Democrat, has gained support from
three Federal Reserve Bank regional presidents in the past week
and pledged to fight efforts to modify or strip the provision.  
 Bailouts  
 “Banks were never intended to perform these activities,”
Lincoln said last week in her opening statement to the House-
Senate conference committee. “It is this economic activity that
contributed to these institutions growing so large that
taxpayers had no choice but to bail them out.”  
 The New Democrats, who played a leading role in shaping the
House legislation passed in December, are joined in opposition
by a group of New York House Democrats led by Representatives
 Michael McMahon  and  Gary Ackerman .  
 In their letter, the New Democrats said that another
measure in the bill -- a ban on proprietary trading, known as
the Volcker rule after its author  Paul Volcker , the former
Federal Reserve chairman -- would better achieve the goals of
the Lincoln provision.  
 The Volcker rule would allow regulators to separate the
riskiest trading activities from commercial banking, while
allowing banks to use swaps for customer-driven trading and to
hedge their business risk, the group said.  
 Regional Banks  
 Seven regional lenders including  U.S. Bancorp  and  Fifth
Third Bancorp  joined lawmakers and industry groups opposing the
Lincoln provision, saying in a letter to House-Senate conferees
that the measure could reduce oversight of swaps trading.  
 “Forcing banks to spin off derivatives businesses will
result in derivatives contracts migrating away from federally
regulated banks and into companies such as hedge funds and
foreign banks where there is no oversight or regulation by
regulators,” the bankers said in the letter.  
 The letter, signed by senior executives from U.S. Bancorp,
Fifth Third, BB&T Corp.,  KeyCorp ,  SunTrust Banks Inc. , Regions
Financial Corp. and PNC Financial Services Group Inc., was
obtained today by Bloomberg News.  
 End Users  
 A coalition of business trade groups also came out in
opposition to the provision today. The Coalition for Derivatives
End-Users, a group including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
the Business Roundtable, said the provision “presents a number
of practical problems for end users” including increased
hedging costs and the elimination of counterparties.  
 End users, businesses such as airlines and manufacturers
that use derivatives to hedge risk in producing or consuming
commodities, have sought exemptions from regulatory restrictions
in the bill.  
 Derivatives, such as stock options, are financial
instruments based on the value of another security or benchmark.
Some instruments, including contracts that insured mortgage-
backed bonds, have been blamed for fueling a financial crisis
that led to the worst recession since the Great Depression.  
 Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat
leading the House-Senate conference, has been working to craft a
compromise on the Lincoln plan after saying it “goes too far.”  
 “Differences narrow in these things, but there will still
be some,” Frank said in an interview this week. “Derivatives
and bank proprietary activity will be substantially regulated
and regulated in this bill and people are moving in the right
direction right now.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Phil Mattingly  in
Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        