-- Swiss Lenders to Face Higher Risks on Mortgages, Swiss National Bank Says
-- Elena Logutenkova
-- 2010-06-17T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/swiss-lenders-to-face-higher-risks-on-mortgages-swiss-national-bank-says.html

          
          
             Swiss banks face increased credit
risks as a reduction in mortgage rates and higher property
prices and lending may lead to a real-estate “bubble” and spur
loan defaults, according to the Swiss National Bank.  
 “Credit risk for domestically focused banks increased
significantly in 2009,” the central bank said its annual
financial stability report, published today. “Should real
estate prices continue to rise at the current pace, or even
accelerate, this would, even in the event of a steady economic
recovery, already constitute the onset of a bubble.”  
 Mortgage lending by Swiss banks focused on the domestic
market rose 7.1 percent last year, beating the 10-year average
growth rate of 4.2 percent, the SNB said. At the same time,
mortgage rates fell to “exceptionally low” levels and house
prices gained the most since before the last Swiss real-estate
bubble in the 1980s. Outstanding mortgage claims at all banks in
Switzerland totalled 744.7 billion francs ($661 billion) at the
end of March.  
 “If the economic recovery comes to a halt and a second
recession emerges, default rates will rise substantially and a
drop in house prices will become likely in some regions or
market segments,” the SNB said, adding that individual banks
could be “severely impaired” in such a case.  
 The SNB, which conducted a survey of lenders in the first
quarter of this year, said “the uncertainty surrounding the
assessment of risk in the Swiss mortgage market remains
unacceptably high.” The central bank, together with the
country’s financial regulator, will further investigate the
risks that banks are taking in this market, it added.  
 ‘Signs of Overheating’  
 Asking prices for houses rose about 6 percent in 2009, and
prices in regions such as Geneva and for market segments such as
owner-occupied flats are showing “first signs of overheating,”
the SNB said.  
 Variable mortgage rates fell 70 basis points between
October 2008 and December 2009 to 2.7 percent, while fixed five-
year rates dropped 120 basis points to 2.6 percent in the same
period. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.  
 The SNB survey also found that “banks regularly grant
mortgage loans at conditions that do not meet their internal
lending standards.” Banks with a 61 percent market share
reported granting 6 billion francs of such “exception to
policy” mortgages in 2009, while banks with combined market
share of about 30 percent didn’t provide data on this topic, the
SNB said.  
 “Many banks do not seem to be in a position to reliably
assess their overall risk situation in relation to the Swiss
mortgage market,” it said. “The survey suggests that many
banks seem to be unfamiliar with how to conduct quantitative
stress tests to assess the impact of stress conditions on their
mortgage loan portfolio.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        