-- Financial Regulation Moving to Central Bank Like `Old Wine in New Bottles'
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-06-17T10:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/u-k-regulation-moving-to-bank-of-england-like-old-wine-in-new-bottles-.html

          
          
             The U.K. government plan to abolish
the Financial Services Authority and give most of its power to
the Bank of England won’t change how banks are regulated as the
European Union assumes a larger role, lawyers say.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last night said
he would replace the regulator with three bodies over the next
two years. Osborne blamed the old system set up by  Gordon Brown 
in 1997 for failing to prevent the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression, which led to bailouts of  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc .  
 The European Union is planning a revamp of financial
regulation that will see the creation of three pan-European
regulators for banks, securities and insurance. The new European
regulators may dictate to national agencies the future direction
of bank supervision, lawyers said.  
 “It is incapable of making any difference because the
fundamental rules are being driven by Brussels,” said  Simon Morris , a lawyer with CMS Cameron McKenna in London. “It’s
simply a rebranding, it’s like pouring old wine in new
bottles.”  
 A Financial Policy Committee at the bank and a consumer
protection and markets agency will also be created, Osborne said
in a speech in London’s financial district last night.
Legislation will be in place by 2012 to create the new system,
he said.  
 A Prudential Regulatory Authority to oversee U.K. banks
will be set up as a subsidiary of the central bank.  
 ‘Alphabet Soup’  
 The FSA’s enforcement unit, which prosecutes insider
trading and market abuse, will be combined with the Serious
Fraud Office and the Office of Fair Trading to create an
economic crime agency.  
 “What George Osborne is offering is a return to the
alphabet soup of 15 years ago, where you have a multiplicity of
regulators,” Morris said. “One hopes that the next crisis will
be sufficiently distant so that the architect is not still
redrawing the plans when the thunderclouds break.”  
 The EU said last year that it would propose three financial
regulatory agencies with broad powers to cope with the financial
crisis. The European Supervisory Authorities would have the
ability to overrule national regulators by asking the European
Commission in Brussels, the EU’s executive arm, to rein in those
that don’t comply with their recommendations.  
 The UK regulator’s role will be to implement and police the
EU directives, Morris said.  
 No ‘Big Changes’  
 “It’s not going to make big changes to the laws and
regulations, most derive from European Union directives, which
the U.K. has to be compliant with anyway,” said  Arun Srivastava , a partner at Baker & McKenzie in London. “It may
bring about the alignment of macro prudential and micro
prudential supervision, and it may bring about a change in the
culture of regulation and supervision.”  
 Hector Sants , the chief executive officer of the FSA, will
stay on to head the new Prudential Regulatory Authority.  
 Adair Turner  said his role as FSA chairman will cease to
exist when the regulator disappears and that he doesn’t expect
to go to the Bank of England. The restructured body has to do a
better job of taking on institutional views about the economic
outlook, Turner told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show.  
 Osborne’s plan scraps Brown’s tripartite system of
regulation -- in which the central bank, FSA and Treasury shared
responsibilities -- and places most of the onus on Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King .  
 King will “take a much more proactive hand in monitoring
and policing the banks’ behavior,” said  Andrew Lim , an analyst
at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in London.  
 “King is proactive, he is going to be completely on top of
everything,” Lim said. “It is like having a matron at hand.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.K. regulation move to BOE  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne speaks at Mansion House in London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne speaks at Mansion House in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
