-- U.K. Retail Sales Rose More Than Forecast in May on Wide-Screen TV Demand
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-06-17T08:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/u-k-retail-sales-rose-more-than-economists-forecast-in-may.html

          
          
             U.K.  retail sales  increased more
than economists forecast in May as shoppers bought electrical
goods such as wide-screen televisions to watch the World Cup
soccer tournament.  
 Sales climbed 0.6 percent on the month, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. Economists predicted a
0.1 percent gain, according to the median of 21 forecasts in a
 Bloomberg News survey . Sales were unchanged in April, revised
down from a 0.3 percent increase.  
 J Sainsbury Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket
owner, said yesterday that World Cup items are “selling well”
and it reported higher sales in the three months ending May 16.
Consumers may limit spending later this year as Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s government implements the deepest budget cuts in
a generation.  
 “You’ll probably see a decent figure in June, and the
better the England team do in the World Cup, the more likely
sales will benefit,” Howard Archer, chief U.K. economist at IHS
Global Insight in London, said in a telephone interview. Still,
“There’s a lot of pressure facing consumers. It’s hard to be
optimistic about spending over the coming months.”  
 The pound increased about 0.2 percent after the report and
traded at $1.4745 as of 9:42 a.m. in London. The yield on the
benchmark two-year U.K. government bond was up 1 basis point
today at 0.86 percent.  
 Food Sales  
 Food sales rose 1 percent on the month, though they have
shown weakness with a drop of 0.9 percent in the quarter through
May, the statistics office said. Non-food sales were unchanged
from April and rose 1.9 percent on a three-month basis.  
 Apart from food, the biggest gain in May was in electrical
goods, with anecdotal evidence of spending on items such as
televisions for the World Cup, officials said. Department-store
sales and fuel also showed increases on the month.  
 Excluding fuel, retail sales increased 0.5 percent in May
after a 0.1 percent drop in April, the statistics office said.  
 Sainsbury said yesterday revenue at stores open at least a
year rose 1.1 percent, excluding fuel and including value added
tax. The company said it expected to sell out of vuvuzela horns
used by South Africans during soccer matches and on the streets
during the World Cup.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Justin King  still said that “we
don’t see there being any inflationary pressure and we see no
reason why consumers will suddenly become more positive.”  
 U.K. Inflation  
 Today’s report showed that the implied deflator, a measure
of annual price changes in shops, was 2.3 percent higher than a
year earlier. Inflation slowed to 3.4 percent last month from
3.7 percent in April, a 17-month high.  
 Bank of England policy makers kept their bond plan at 200
billion pounds ($294 billion) and the benchmark interest rate at
a record-low 0.5 percent last week to nurse the economic
recovery. Gross domestic product expanded 0.3 percent in the
first quarter, less than the 0.4 percent of the final three
months of 2009.  
 Other reports point to weaker spending. Consumer confidence
dropped last month by the most since July 2008 as the
inconclusive May 6 election outcome, Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis and the emergency budget due on June 22 weighed on
shoppers’ optimism, Nationwide Building Society said yesterday.  
 “If prospects for growth were to weaken, the outlook for
inflation would probably be lower and monetary policy could then
respond,” Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said late
yesterday. “A range of indicators point to spare capacity in
the economy rather than excess demand.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers browse flat screen televisions on display at a store in the Bluewater Shopping & Leisure Centre near Greenhithe, U.K. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
