-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Fell 0.2% in May, Core Rate Rose 0.1%
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-06-17T12:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/u-s-consumer-prices-declined-0-2-in-may-rose-0-1-excluding-food-fuel.html

          
          
             The  cost  of living in the U.S.
dropped in May for a second month, signaling the world’s largest
economy is recovering without causing prices to flare.  
 The 0.2 percent decline in the consumer price index was the
biggest since December 2008 and followed April’s 0.1 percent
decrease, figures from the Labor Department showed today in
Washington. Excluding food and fuel, the so-called  core  rate
increased 0.1 percent. The figures matched the median forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  are cutting prices
to bolster sales as customers face almost 10 percent
unemployment and rising foreclosures. The lack of inflation
gives Federal Reserve policy makers scope to leave the benchmark
interest rate near zero in coming months and help invigorate the
economy.  
 “Companies right now really don’t have any pricing
power,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise
Financial Inc. in Detroit, who accurately forecast the drop in
the consumer-price index. “It still provides the Federal
Reserve a great deal of leeway.”  
 The Labor Department also reported today that initial
jobless claims rose 12,000 last week to 472,000. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a decline to 450,000,
according to the median estimate.  
 Stock-index futures trimmed their gains following the
report on unemployment claims. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index were little changed at 1,110.30 as of 8:46 a.m. in New
York after climbing as much as 0.7 percent.  
 Current Account  
 A separate government report showed the current-account
deficit widened to $109 billion in the first three months of the
year, reflecting a bigger trade shortfall as imports climbed.  
 The gap was smaller than the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed a revised $100.9 billion
deficit in the fourth quarter 2009 that was smaller than
previously estimated, figures from the Commerce Department
showed today in Washington.  
 Consumer prices were forecast to decline 0.2 percent,
according to the median forecast of 79 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Estimates ranged from a drop of 0.4 percent to a gain of
0.1 percent.  
 In the 12 months ended in May, prices rose 2 percent
following a 2.2 percent year-over-year gain the prior month.
Economists had forecast a 2 percent rise in the 12 months to
May, according to the survey median.  
 Core Rate  
 The core rate rose 0.9 percent from May 2009, matching the
smallest year-over-year gain since 1966.  
 Compared with a month earlier, energy costs decreased 2.9
percent. Gasoline prices declined 5.2 percent, the biggest drop
since December 2008.  
 The debt crisis in Greece that has weighed on the value of
the euro may keep damping U.S. inflation in coming months, and
American exports to Europe may slow at the same time a stronger
dollar holds down the cost of imported goods.  
 Food prices, which account for about 15 percent of the CPI,
were unchanged. Fruit and vegetable prices declined, while costs
of meats and dairy products increased, today’s report showed.  
 Housing costs remain limited. Owners-equivalent rent, one
of the categories designed to track rental prices, was unchanged
for a second month and down 0.3 percent from May 2009.  
 The core index was boosted in May by higher costs for
clothing and medical care.  
 Sales Growth  
 Procter & Gamble Co. , the world’s largest consumer-products
company, said yesterday that price increases may provide a boost
to sales growth in the next fiscal year. In the meantime,
pricing may be negative for the “next quarter or two,” Chief
Financial Officer  Jon Moeller  said at a meeting with investors
in Paris.  
 “We are not expecting strong growth in really any of the
developed markets,” Moeller said. Sales in western Europe and
the U.S. will increase at rates lower than their historical
average, the executive said.  
 The Fed’s long-term forecast for its preferred measure of
inflation, the Commerce Department’s index tied to consumer
spending and excluding food and fuel, calls for gains in a range
of 1.7 percent to 2 percent. That gauge, typically lower than
the CPI, was up 1.2 percent in the 12 months through April.  
 ‘In The Recession’  
 Some lower-income customers in the U.S. are “still deeply
in the recession” and are shopping various retailers for the
cheapest prices, Jamie Sohosky, senior director of marketing for
Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores, said this month.  
 Shoppers at Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, are
also using more coupons than a year ago, Sohosky said. They’re
worried about losing their jobs and paying mortgages, she said.  
 The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price gauges from
Labor, because it includes goods and services. Almost 60 percent
of the CPI covers prices consumers pay for services ranging from
medical visits to airline fares and movie tickets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are cutting prices to bolster sales. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
