-- U.S. Exchanges Propose Rules to Define Erroneous Stock Trades
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-06-17T19:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/u-s-exchanges-propose-rules-to-define-stock-trades-that-are-made-in-error.html

          
          
             U.S. exchanges, responding to the
May 6  market crash , offered rules today that would standardize
the process for breaking erroneous stock trades.  
 The proposals build on the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s circuit breakers, a program begun last week that
pauses shares when they swing more than 10 percent within five
minutes. For most companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ,
trades would be voided as erroneous when they occur more than 5
percent above or below the level that would trigger a halt.  
 Regulators and exchange officials are trying to restore
investor trust in U.S. equity markets after fragmented rules
across almost 50 different venues worsened the May 6 plunge that
erased $862 billion of value in 20 minutes. Decisions to cancel
almost 20,800 trades that were at least 60 percent away from the
market price when the plunge began were criticized as arbitrary
in the crash’s aftermath.  
 “Establishing clear and transparent standards for breaking
trades helps provide certainty in advance as to which trades
will be broken and allows market participants to better manage
risks,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in the statement.  
 The trade-break rules proposed today are based on a sliding
scale determined by the stock’s price. For equities that cost
$25 or less, trades would be broken when they are at least 10
percent away from the price that would trigger a circuit
breaker. For shares between $25 and $50, the range in which most
 S&P 500 companies  trade, they would be voided at 5 percent away.
For stocks above $50, transactions would be canceled when they
are 3 percent above or below the halt price.  
 Broken Trades  
 Of the 20,800 separate trades broken May 6, 59 percent were
canceled by Nasdaq, 24 percent by NYSE’s Arca electronic
platform, 5 percent by Bats Exchange and 9 percent on over-the-
counter markets.  
 Exchange officials had a “significant debate” about where
to set the threshold in a call after the selloff, according to
congressional testimony on May 11 by  Eric Noll , executive vice
president for transaction services at Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
Chief executive officers of the biggest U.S. trading venues who
met with the SEC in Washington May 10 agreed to submit proposals
for overhauling erroneous-trade policies.  
 The 60 percent cutoff meant that trades in Cincinnati-based
Procter & Gamble Co., which fell as much as 37 percent for the
biggest intraday drop in the Dow industrials on May 6, stood.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        