-- U.S. Stock-Index Futures Advance; First Solar, Sunoco, Alcoa Shares Gain
-- Adria Cimino
-- 2010-06-17T11:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-first-solar-alcoa-shares-gain-in-europe.html

          
          
             U.S. stock-index futures gained
before reports that may offer further clues about the pace of
recovery in the world’s largest economy.  
 First Solar Inc. , the world’s largest manufacturer of thin-
film solar power modules, climbed 4 percent in early New York
trading after Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded the stock. Sunoco
Inc. rallied after BMO Capital Markets raised its recommendation
on the shares. Alcoa Inc., the biggest U.S. aluminum maker,
increased 1.1 percent.  
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures expiring in September
advanced 0.5 percent to 1,114.8 at 7:38 a.m. in New York. Dow
Jones Industrial Average futures gained 0.4 percent to 10,388.
The MSCI World Index of shares in 24 developed nations climbed
0.3 percent, posting an eighth straight day of gains that’s the
longest since July.  
 “Investors are looking at the data,” said  Walter Harecker , a Vienna-based fund manager at Semper Constantia
Privatbank AG, which oversees about $12 billion in total assets.
“Leading indicators will be the big issue today. If the economy
picks up, there will be nice margins for companies.”  
 The Conference Board’s leading economic indicators, a
measure of the outlook for the next three to six months, rose
0.4 percent in May, the 13th gain in the past 14 months,
according to the median forecast of 58 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The New York-based research group’s report is due
at 10 a.m. local time.  
 Jobless Benefits, Manufacturing  
 Other data today may show fewer Americans applied for
 jobless benefits  last week, manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded this month and the cost of living dropped in May
for a second month.  
 Most U.S. stocks fell yesterday after housing starts
dropped and FedEx Corp.’s profit forecast trailed estimates. The
 S&P 500  tumbled 14 percent from a 19-month high on April 23
through June 7 as concern grew that Europe’s debt crisis will
derail the economic recovery and BP’s leaking well triggered the
worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 The index has since rebounded 6.1 percent as concern over
European budget deficits eased and investors speculated growth
in China and the U.S. will bolster the global recovery. Spain
sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of 10-year and 30-year
bonds today, the maximum set for the auction, as a decline in
prices enticed buyers and concern eased that the nation will
struggle to finance looming debt maturities.  
 First Solar climbed 4 percent to $123.50 in pre-market
trading in New York. Credit Suisse raised its recommendation on
the stock to “outperform” from “neutral.”  
 Sunoco, a Philadelphia-based petroleum refiner, gained 3.2
percent to $35.35 in New York. The stock was raised to “market
perform” from “underperform” at BMO Capital Markets.  
 Alcoa increased 1.1 percent to $11.54 in New York.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adria Cimino  in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        