-- U.S. Soccer Sues Sports Authority Over World Cup Ads Using Licensed Marks
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-06-17T20:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/u-s-soccer-sues-sports-authority-over-world-cup-ads-using-licensed-logos.html

          
          
             Sports Authority Inc. , the biggest
U.S. athletic gear chain, was sued by  U.S. Soccer Federation  for
running television spots linked to the World Cup without
authorization.  
 The federation, soccer’s governing body in the U.S.,  claims 
that Sports Authority ads televised during the national team’s
June 12 match against England showed U.S. team member  Taylor Twellman  and former National Football League player  Michael Strahan  wearing its trademarked uniforms and crest.  
 “U.S. Soccer only permits one sporting goods retailer to
use its marks on an exclusive basis,” the federation said today
in a complaint filed against TSA Stores Inc., the company that
operates Sports Authority, in federal court in Chicago.  Dick’s
Sporting Goods Inc.  Inc. is the team’s only licensed retailer,
it said.  
 The U.S. played England to a 1-1 draw in its first match of
the quadrennial tournament in South Africa. The Americans are
slated to play Slovenia tomorrow.  
 The federation said it sent a letter June 11 telling Sports
Authority to stop displaying ads featuring the U.S. team’s
uniform and logo. The ad aired the following day and is expected
to appear again during tomorrow’s match, according to the
complaint. TSA had no permission to show team logos or uniforms
in the spots and Twellman wasn’t authorized to appear in them,
the federation said.  
 U.S. Soccer is seeking a court order barring the retailer
from using its marks, together with compensatory and punitive
damages. The federation is based in Chicago.  
 ‘Caught by Surprise’  
 “Today, we were caught by surprise and hope to resolve
this matter expeditiously and cooperatively with the United
States Soccer Federation and are engaged in active dialogue with
them to do so,”  David Campisi , the president and chief
executive officer of Sports Authority, said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Dick’s, based in Coraopolis, Pennsylvania, is the largest
publicly traded sporting goods chain in the U.S. Dick’s CEO
 Edward Stack  has said competition in the business is increasing.  
 “We’ll be keeping a very close eye on what Sports
Authority is doing,” he said on a conference call last month to
discuss first-quarter  earnings .  
 Revenue in the 13 weeks ended May 1 rose 9.2 percent to
$1.05 billion, Dick’s said in a statement May 18. Sales at
established locations climbed 8.2 percent.  
 Dick’s fell 49 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $28.40 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares
have gained 14 percent this year.  
 As of May 1, the company had 424 Dick’s stores in 41 states
and 91 Golf Galaxy stores in 31 states. Sports Authority has
more than 450 stores in 45 states, according to its website. The
retailer was acquired in 2006 by Los Angeles private-equity firm
Leonard Green & Partners LP for $1.4 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The case is United States Soccer Federation v. TSA Stores
Inc., 10cv3755, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        