-- U.S. Stocks Gain in Late-Day Rebound Led by Tech Shares
-- Whitney Kisling
-- 2010-06-17T20:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/u-s-stock-index-futures-trim-advance-after-unemployment-claims-increase.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rose, with benchmark
indexes turning positive for the year, as a late-day technology-
share rally helped the market overcome an early slump spurred by
economic reports casting doubts on the strength of the recovery.  
 Apple Inc. rose 1.7 percent to a record price to pace gains
in computer companies on optimism over the new version of its
iPhone. First Solar Inc., the world’s largest maker of thin-film
solar power modules, rallied 3.9 percent to lead industrial
companies higher on Credit Suisse Group AG’s advice to buy the
shares. Benchmark indexes recovered as the euro climbed to near
its highest level of the day against the dollar, signaling
growing confidence the European debt crisis is contained.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased 0.1 percent to
1,116.04 as of 4 p.m. in New York and remained above its 200-day
average for a third day.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained
24.71 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,434.17, erasing a drop of as
much as 90 points. Both gauges did not turn higher until the
final minutes of trading.  
 “The market over the past two days -- given the economic
data we’ve gotten -- it’s actually held up,” said  Walter Todd ,
who helps manage about $800 million at Greenwood Capital in
Greenwood, South Carolina. “It’s been able to stay above that
200-day level and that’s good.”  
 Trading Near Average  
 The S&P 500 has closed above its  average  over the past 200
days since June 15 after sinking below it for almost a month.
The 2.4 percent rally on June 15 sent the index about 6.5 points
above the level, a move considered significant by investors who
base trading decisions on chart patterns.  
 Earlier declines sent the S&P 500 down as much as 0.8
percent after the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general
economic index slumped to 8 in June from 21.4 the previous
month, below the average economist forecast of 20 in a Bloomberg
News survey. Futures of the major indexes had retreated from
their highs in pre-market trading after a government report
showed an increase in first-time unemployment claims.  
 “The entire tape is being driven by momentum and day
traders,” said  Jason Weisberg , director of institutional
trading at Seaport Securities in New York. “Long-term players
will not return until Europe is fully contained and bottomed.”  
 The  S&P 500  tumbled 14 percent from a 19-month high on
April 23 through June 7 as concern grew that Europe’s debt
crisis will derail the economic recovery and BP Plc’s leaking
well triggered the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 S&P 500’s Rebound  
 The index has since rebounded 6.2 percent as concern over
European budget deficits eased and investors speculated growth
in China and the U.S. will bolster the global recovery. Spain
sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of 10-year and 30-year
bonds today, the maximum set for the auction, as a decline in
prices enticed buyers and mollified concern that the nation will
struggle to finance looming debt maturities.  
 The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a
benchmark gauge of U.S. stock options known as the  VIX , slipped
3.4 percent to 25.05, a six-week low, today. The measure, which
tracks prices paid for S&P 500 options, usually falls as stocks
climb on lessened demand for options to protect against losses.
U.S. June options expire tomorrow.  
 The upcoming expiration, coupled with the S&P’s quarterly
index rebalancing set for the same day, “is resulting in
massive technical noise today,” said  Peter Boockvar , equity
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  
 Apple  rallied 1.7 percent to $271.87, the sixth straight
day of gains. Active iPhone subscribers may more than triple to
100 million by the end of 2011, AppleInsider website reported,
citing Morgan Stanley analyst  Katy Huberty .  
 Momentum  
 “Momentum appears beyond our bullish expectations,” wrote
 Shaw Wu , an analyst with Kaufman Brothers LP. “Based on our
analysis of demand trends and supply chain data, we are raising
our already above-consensus estimates, which frankly we find
remarkable as we are arguably still in a recession.” Wu
reiterated his “buy” rating and raised the price target 6.3
percent to $340.  
 First Solar  climbed 3.9 percent to $123.45. Credit Suisse
Group AG raised its recommendation on the stock to
“outperform” from “neutral.”  
 M&T Bank  Corp. rose the most in the S&P 500, jumping 9
percent to $89.34 on takeover speculation. Banco Santander SA
said it has taken no decision on any possible decision to
combine its business with the M&T.  Matias Inciarte , the Spanish
lender’s third vice-chairman, said “it’s been said” that there
have been conversations between the two banks.  
 CPI Declines  
 Consumer-discretionary stocks  fell the most of 10 industry
groups in the S&P 500 as initial jobless  claims  rose by 12,000
to 472,000 last week, figures from the Labor Department showed.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists was for
a decline to 450,000.  The consumer price index declined 0.2
percent in May, the Labor Department said, matching the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Bed Bath & Beyond  Inc. decreased the most in the S&P 500,
erasing 7.6 percent to $41.70.  Home Depot Inc. , the world’s
largest home improvement retailer, retreated 0.7 percent to
$31.91 for the second-biggest drop in the Dow.  
 Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund manager who made money betting
against Enron Corp., said on Bloomberg Television that he is
short-selling shares of large oil companies because investment
in drilling and exploration is eating up their cash flows.  
 BP declined 0.4 percent to $31.71 as Chief Executive
Officer  Tony Hayward  said at a hearing of a U.S. House Energy
Committee panel that he didn’t take part in decisions on
drilling the well in the Gulf of Mexico that blew out,
triggering the worst U.S. oil spill.  
 Acampora  
 U.S. stocks are likely to add to the rebound since June 7,
said  Ralph Acampora , whose career as a technical analyst began
in 1966.  
 The magnitude of the market’s decline in May, as the  S&P
500  fell 8.2 percent for its biggest drop in 15 months, and the
effect on investor sentiment make possible a rally that might
extend the advance to as much as 12 percent, Acampora said in an
interview yesterday. Technical analysts view pessimism as a sign
that stocks may rise, because it indicates investors have
capacity to buy shares after avoiding the market.  
 “The damage in price and the damage in psychology has set
us up on a very short-term basis for a good recovery,” Acampora
said. “The low that we made a couple of days ago I think is a
good one, and I think we could set the stage for a 10-plus
percent recovery.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Daniel Ortwerth, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about FedEx Corp.'s fourth-quarter earnings, expense-reduction strategy and global focus.
     The world’s largest air-cargo carrier forecast annual profit that trailed analysts estimates as rising health-care and pension costs climb in a “moderate” economic recovery. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
