-- UAW Leader King to Focus on Organizing Toyota Workers
-- Keith Naughton
-- 2010-06-18T00:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/uaw-president-king-says-union-will-focus-on-organizing-u-s-toyota-workers.html

          
          
             Bob King , new president of the
 United Auto Workers  union, said organizing the U.S. factory
workers of foreign companies such as  Toyota Motor Corp.  is his
top priority.  
 “If we don’t support Toyota, Honda, Nissan, Hyundai, Kia
and all the non-union plants by supporting the right to
organize, we cannot win back the concessions we have given up,”
King said yesterday in his first address to delegates at the
UAW’s constitutional convention in Detroit.  
 King, 63, was elected president on June 16, succeeding  Ron Gettelfinger , 65, who helped persuade President  Barack Obama  to
organize rescues of General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC
last year. King takes over amid calls from workers to restore
the wages and benefits they gave up to bolster the industry, and
as membership in the union has fallen to 355,000 from 1.5
million in 1979.  
 UAW members who work for U.S. automakers have each given
$7,000 to $30,000 in concessions in the past five years, King
said last month. The union surrendered raises, bonuses and cost-
of-living adjustments at GM, Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler. It
agreed to a two-tier wage system, in which new hires earn about
$14 an hour, half the amount paid to hourly production workers.  
 “The only way we can get back what we’ve sacrificed is by
coming up with a comprehensive strategy to rebuild the power of
the UAW,” King said, adding later in a press conference: “It’s
not possible to get everything back that we gave up because
we’re not going to put ourselves in a position where the
vehicles we make are not competitive.”  
 Toyota’s Mississippi Plant  
 King criticized  Toyota  President  Akio Toyoda  for moving
forward with plans to open a non-union factory in Mississippi
after closing the New United Motor Manufacturing Inc. plant,
known as Nummi, that it had operated in Fremont, California.  
 “Toyota is moving production in violation of what Akio
Toyoda’s father told us, ‘Produce a quality vehicle and be
productive and you have lifetime employment,’” King said in a
press conference following the convention. “How is it morally
right or fair to its largest market, California?”  
 The Japanese automaker’s joint venture with pre-bankruptcy
GM was its only U.S. plant where workers were represented by the
UAW.  
 “The only reason they closed that plant is because it was
a UAW plant,” King said. “Mr. Toyoda, if you care about safety
and quality in America, you’ll go back to Fremont and build
Corollas there and not in Mississippi.”  
 ‘Long Way From Suppliers’  
 Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, will begin
installing assembly equipment at the facility in Blue Springs,
Mississippi, with a goal of starting production of Corolla
compact cars by late 2011, the company said yesterday in a
statement. The decision reverses earlier plans to use the plant
to build Highlander sport-utility vehicles and Prius hybrids.  
 “Nummi closed because when GM abandoned the factory, we
could not sustain that plant by ourselves,” said  Mike Goss , a
Toyota spokesman. “It was a long way from our suppliers and was
getting engines made in West Virginia. Nummi was not
economically feasible.”  
 Toyota said in May it would buy a $50 million stake in
electric-car producer Tesla Motors Inc., which purchased the
Nummi plant to build its Model S and other vehicles.  
 Tesla had hired back 90 former Nummi workers at that time
and expected to add about 50 a month, Chief Executive Officer
Elon Musk said. Nummi had 4,700 workers before its closing.  
 King said yesterday the plant closing was “a crazy
business decision” and the UAW would conduct protests at Toyota
dealerships.  
 “We’re going to show these corporations that if they do
something unjust to our members, they’ll pay a price,” he said
after his speech.  
 ‘Bad Business Decisions’  
 “There’s a direct parallel between the decision to close
Fremont, which was a bad business decision, just like they made
bad business decisions on quality and their safety recalls,”
King said.  
 After the convention adjourned, King led the 1,200
delegates along with Teamsters President  James P. Hoffa  on a
march on Detroit’s banking district to protest Wall Street
lending practices. The demonstration was part of new social
activism the union will undertake, King said.  
 “We’ve been under attack for eight years and we hunched
down and protected the union,” King told the crowd from the
back of a flatbed truck. “We will never have the justice we
deserve if we’re not part of a much broader social movement.”  
 Auto Sales  
 The recession combined with the financial crisis that began
in 2008 led to a 35 percent industrywide plunge in U.S. auto
sales from 2007 to 2009.  Sales  this year through May rose 17
percent.  
 As auto sales recovered in the first quarter, GM posted net
income of $865 million, Chrysler had an operating profit of $143
million and Ford reported earnings of $2.1 billion. The
automakers are boosting production, expanding plants and hiring
workers.  
 GM said yesterday it will operate 9 of 11 U.S. assembly
plants through the customary summer shutdown because flexibility
under the new UAW contract allows the automaker to respond to
customer demand. The move will boost GM’s output by 56,000
vehicles.  
 King cited Ford’s No. 5 ranking in J.D. Power’s initial
quality study yesterday as proof that UAW workers build better
cars than they ever have.  
 “We’ve learned from our mistakes in our past,” King said.
“We cannot let bad quality come out of our facilities.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Detroit at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bob King, the new president of the United Auto Workers union (UAW), addresses the UAW 35th Constitutional Convention at Cobo Hall in Detroit. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
