-- UBS, Credit Suisse Have $53.3 Billion at Risk in Europe Crisis, SNB Says
-- Elena Logutenkova
-- 2010-06-17T12:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/ubs-credit-suisse-have-53-3-billion-at-risk-in-euro-crisis-data-shows.html

          
          
             UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG’s 
financial claims against Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Italy and
Spain amounted to 60.3 billion Swiss francs ($53.3 billion) at
the end of 2009, according to Swiss central bank statistics.  
 The claims include 11.3 billion francs against the
countries’ governments, 25.5 billion francs against banks and
22.4 billion francs against the private sector, the Swiss
National Bank said in its annual financial stability report
published today. The figures represent gross exposure.  
 The SNB, which again called on the country’s two biggest
banks to cut leverage, said their direct sovereign exposure is
“moderate” compared with the 49.8 billion francs of capital
they hold in excess of requirements. Indirect effects through
credit risk are “far more substantial,” it said.  
 Greece’s public finances began rattling investors late last
year, when the country more than tripled its budget deficit
forecast for 2009. The European Union and International Monetary
Fund cobbled together a 110 billion-euro ($135 billion) rescue
package last month to prevent a Greek default and then drew up
an emergency fund of as much as 750 billion euros to back other
countries facing instability.  
 “Given the high level of indebtedness of many countries
and the moderate growth expectations, the outlook for sovereign
risk remains gloomy,” the central bank said. Total exposure of
all Swiss banks to the five countries amounted to 75.9 billion
francs, the report showed.  
 ‘Not Material’  
 UBS and Credit Suisse held 200 million francs in claims
against the government of Ireland, 1.1 billion francs against
Greece, 1.4 billion francs against Portugal, 2.9 billion francs
against Spain and 5.7 billion francs against Italy, according to
the SNB report.  
 “SNB’s numbers reflect a gross view,” Credit Suisse
spokesman  Marc Dosch  said. “Our risk management view, which
reflects the possible economic impact, shows that Credit
Suisse’s exposure to Greece is not material and our exposure to
the other southern European economies that have been subject to
credit downgrades is limited.”  
 UBS is “committed to further strengthen our capital base
via retained earnings,” spokeswoman  Sabine Jaenecke  said.
“UBS’s exposure to Greece is not material. UBS is not overly
concerned with its public sector exposures to the other
countries that have been mentioned.”  
 Leverage Ratios  
 “If there were solvency risks in these countries, it would
create turbulence on financial markets and have significant
negative consequences through economic implications,” SNB Vice
Chairman  Thomas Jordan  said at a press conference in Geneva
today. “That would hurt the global banking system to a large
extent,” and not only Swiss banks, he said.  
 UBS and Credit Suisse continue to face “high credit and
market risk” amid a “fragile” economic recovery and “great”
uncertainty about further developments, according to the SNB.  
 “The risks of the big banks may, in particular, be judged
as substantial when set in relation to their capacity to absorb
losses,” the central bank said. “Their leverage remains
elevated. Accordingly, the margin for error that the big banks
can afford remains narrow.”  
 Swiss regulators in 2008 said that by 2013 UBS and Credit
Suisse need to have capital amounting to at least 3 percent of
total  assets  and at least 5 percent when they make profits. At
the end of 2009, UBS reported a leverage ratio of 3.9 percent,
while Credit Suisse had 4 percent.  
 ‘More Stringent Provisions’  
 In light of the too-big-to-fail discussions, the banks must
satisfy “more stringent provisions” going beyond the capital
requirements introduced in 2008, the SNB said.  
 A panel appointed by the Swiss government said in an
interim report in April that UBS and Credit Suisse may face
progressive capital and liquidity requirements relative to their
size and importance. The panel is also considering ways to carve
up the banks to separate units important for the country from
businesses that would be allowed to fail in a crisis.  
 “The SNB will continue pushing hard for a genuine
alleviation of the ‘too-big-to-fail’ issue,” Jordan said today.
“We are aware that, for the big banks, the regulatory measures
being discussed are associated with costs. Yet, since the cost
to the taxpayer is reduced to the same extent, this does not
constitute a cost to the economy as a whole.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        