-- Swiss Parliament Approves UBS Tax Treaty, Ending Standoff
-- Klaus Wille
-- 2010-06-17T11:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/ubs-tax-dispute-with-u-s-settled-as-swiss-pass-treaty-without-referendum.html

          
          
             Swiss lawmakers approved a  UBS AG 
tax treaty with the U.S., ending a two-year legal battle that
threatened the American business of Switzerland’s largest bank.  
 The approval, by majority votes in both chambers of
 Parliament , came after week-long negotiations between the upper
and the lower house during which deputies dropped a demand for
the treaty to be opened to a nationwide referendum. UBS rose as
much as 2.9 percent in Zurich trading.  
 “It’s a breakthrough for UBS and for Switzerland as a
financial center,”  Peter V. Kunz , head of the business law
department at the University of Bern, said today in a telephone
interview.  
 The approval means the bank can complete the handover of
client data of suspected tax dodgers by August, allowing the
Zurich-based bank to close a chapter that the Justice Minister
had called an “existential threat.” Almost 37 percent of UBS’s
65,233 employees worked in the Americas at the end of 2009.
UBS’s Wealth Management Americas unit managed 690 billion Swiss
francs ($604 billion) at the end of the year.  
 Switzerland agreed in August 2009 to hand over data on as
many as 4,450  UBS  clients suspected of tax evasion to the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service. Parliamentary approval became
necessary after a court ruled in January that the agreement
couldn’t be enforced as it then stood. A referendum would have
meant a deadline for disclosure of the information was missed.  
 The agreement was part of global efforts by countries such
as the U.S. or Germany to crack down on tax evasion as budget
deficits are ballooning in the wake of the economic crisis.
Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg and Austria agreed to
facilitate the exchange of bank account data.  
 No Obstacles  
 “Nothing now stands in the way of UBS client details being
disclosed in cases where the decision handed down has taken
legal effect,” the Justice Ministry said on its website.
Efforts to meet the August deadline are “on course,” it said.  
 The Bern, Switzerland-based lower house voted 81 to 63 to
endorse the treaty without the referendum option, with 47
abstentions. The upper house approved the accord earlier today.  
 UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank by  assets , said it’s
“confident” it can meet all its obligations under separate
deals with the U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and
Exchange Commission by the relevant deadlines in August,
commenting in an e-mailed statement.  
 “I welcome the parliament’s approval of the state
treaty,” UBS Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  said. “I
and the whole bank thank the government and those
parliamentarians who lobbied for finding a solution in this
matter.”  
 Shares Gain  
 UBS gained as much as 2.9 percent, adding 36 centimes to
15.87 francs by 12:40 p.m. in Zurich. That gave the bank a
 market value  of 60.8 billion francs.  
 “This is good for the sentiment on UBS,” said  Georg Kanders , a WestLB analyst, who has a “neutral” rating on UBS.
“The strong Swiss franc and relative security” will help the
bank to stop outflows from its wealth-management businesses.  
 Though supported by the government and the Liberal and
Christian Democratic parties, the agreement became entangled in
partisan politics as both the nationalist  Swiss People’s Party ,
or SVP, and the Social Democrats made their support conditional
on their own agendas.  
 “This is a good result for the constructive forces in this
Parliament,” Swiss Justice Minister  Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf 
told reporters after the debate. “I’m relieved.”  
 The SVP dropped its initial opposition and its insistence
on the referendum option, saying that rescuing the UBS treaty
was in the country’s higher interest.  
 Political Opposition  
 The Social Democratic Party  remained opposed to the end, on
the grounds the deal should have been linked to a tax on
bankers’ bonuses and measures to contain the risk of failure at
UBS and the second-biggest lender, Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 In February 2009, UBS avoided U.S. prosecution by paying
$780 million, admitting it helped wealthy Americans evade U.S.
taxes from 2000 to 2007, and handing over account data on more
than 250 U.S. clients. The next day, the U.S. sued UBS, seeking
data on 52,000 Swiss accounts.  
 Today’s vote removed the threat of further civil litigation
against UBS and additional fallout under criminal law. The U.S.
Justice Department agreed last year to defer prosecution of UBS.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        