-- UBS Favors Emerging-Market Equities as Global Economy Avoids `Double Dip'
-- Maryam Nemazee
-- 2010-06-17T05:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/ubs-favors-emerging-market-equities-as-global-economy-avoids-double-dip-.html

          
          
             UBS AG’s wealth management unit
favors stocks in emerging markets including China, India and
Indonesia because the global economy isn’t expected to slip into
another recession amid Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has dropped 4.4 percent
this year as Europe’s austerity measures and China’s efforts to
curb property speculation weighed on the outlook for growth. The
declines mean the gauge is valued at 12.1 times estimated
earnings, down from 16.6 times at the start of the year.  
 “We don’t see a double dip scenario,”  Pu Yonghao , chief
Asian investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong. “After such a
correction, valuations look extremely attractive and earnings
growth remains solid and on the macro, we don’t have any
sovereign-debt issues in Asia.”  
 Rising domestic consumption will help to sustain Asia’s
economic growth, Pu said. The U.S. economy and larger nations in
Europe including Germany and France are also “holding up very
well,” he said. The MSCI index rose 0.2 percent to 944.81 as of
1:36 p.m. in Hong Kong, advancing for an eighth day, the longest
stretch of gains in more than two months.  
 A Federal Reserve report yesterday showed industrial
production in the U.S. rose 1.2 percent in May, the most since
August. Reports released last week also showed surging exports,
industrial production and retail sales in China, the world’s
fastest-growing major economy.  
 ‘Runaway Express Train’  
 “The Chinese economy is a little bit like a runaway
express train,”  Peter Elston , a Singapore-based strategist at
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which manages $259 billion
globally, said in an interview yesterday. “Even if the West
does go through some sort of relapse, I do see China being able
to maintain some sort of momentum simply because it has the
capital domestically that’s needed to supply its economy.”  
 Emerging-market stocks may rebound as long as the peak in
the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development’s
leading indicator isn’t followed by another global recession,
Credit Suisse Group AG said this week. Developing-nation stocks
have historically advanced an average 22 percent in the 12
months after highs in the indicator followed by so-called soft
landings, according to analysts led by  Sakthi Siva , the top-
ranked Asia strategist in Institutional Investor’s 2010 poll.  
 “Relatively speaking, we still like equities, particularly
emerging-market equities,” UBS’s Pu said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        