-- Mukesh Ambani May Unveil Reliance Industries Expansion, End Feud With Anil
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-06-17T23:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/mukesh-ambani-may-unveil-reliance-industries-expansion-end-feud-with-anil.html

          
          
             Billionaire  Mukesh Ambani  may
unveil plans to invest in power and communications in India
amid speculation that Asia’s richest man is also likely to
formally end a five-year-old feud with his younger brother.  
 Anil Ambani  may attend the annual shareholder meeting of
 Reliance Industries Ltd. , controlled by Mukesh, for the first
time since the world’s wealthiest brothers split the empire
founded by their father, the Hindustan Times reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified person close to the family.  
 The shareholder meeting takes place in Mumbai today,
exactly five years to the day the Ambanis split India’s second-
biggest group and squabbled as their business interests clashed.
Indian newspapers have speculated about a rapprochement since
the brothers scrapped a non-competition accord last month,
removing curbs on investments by their companies.  
 A reconciliation would be “a positive signal for all
shareholders,” said  Walter Rossini , who helps manage about
$1.2 billion of emerging market stocks, including Reliance
Industries shares, at Aletti Gestielle Sgr Spa in Milan. “They
realize that together they are much more effective and can grab
a much larger share of the cake,” he said by telephone
yesterday.  
 Last week the brothers and their families holidayed in
South Africa’s Kruger National Park, where Mukesh and Anil
discussed ways to develop synergies between their businesses,
Press Trust of India reported June 13, citing unidentified
persons familiar with the details.  
 Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for Reliance Industries,
declined to comment on the reports and Anil Ambani didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comments.  
 Accord Scrapped  
 Reliance, which  accounts  for about 14 percent of the
benchmark stock index, rose 1.3 percent to 1,071.40 rupees in
Mumbai yesterday. The stock has lagged behind the  Sensex  in four
of the 10  years  ended June 15, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Reliance on June 11, less than a month after the accord
between the brothers was scrapped, acquired an Internet
services company for $1 billion. Anil’s Reliance Communications
Ltd. said it dropped out of the bidding for Internet services
permits after securing third-generation mobile-phone licenses
in an earlier auction.  
 Fund manager  Deven Choksey , chief executive officer of
Mumbai-based KR Choksey Shares & Securities, said more
initiatives may be outlined by Mukesh in his annual speech to
shareholders today.  
 Under an agreement reached on June 18, 2005, Mukesh, 53,
kept the petrochemicals, oil and gas units and Anil, 51, got
the power, telecommunications, financial services and
entertainment units.  
 ‘Two Giants’  
 The removal of the non-competition pact may translate into
“these two giants effectively beginning to collaborate,” said
Rajeev Kohli, professor of marketing at Columbia Business
School in New York. “Given the needs of the country at present,
there is a great opportunity if it’s in the right sectors of
the economy,” such as infrastructure development or energy, he
said by telephone.  
 The Mumbai-based company’s first foray in commercial
electricity generation may come as early as next month when
Reliance plans to bid in a government auction to build at least
one power plant in India, two company officials said on June 16.  
 The operator of the world’s biggest refining complex and
India’s largest natural gas field had outstanding  debt  of about
625 billion rupees ($13.4 billion) and cash and equivalents of
218.7 billion rupees as of March 31, the company said in April.
Reliance is in talks with banks to borrow $1 billion, two
people with direct knowledge of the matter said June 4.  
 Even as Mukesh Ambani diversifies his  business , investors
expect Reliance to continue to buy oil and gas assets overseas
and fulfill its ambition of becoming a global energy company.  
 Acquisitions  
 The company bought shale gas assets in the U.S. from  Atlas
Energy Inc.  for $1.7 billion in April after failing to purchase
LyondellBasell Industries AF in a deal that would have valued
the bankrupt chemicals maker at $14.5 billion, and losing a bid
for oil sands assets in Canada owned by Value Creations Inc.  
 Reliance is considering buying a stake in shale gas assets
owned by  Pioneer Natural Resources Co.  in the U.S., two people
with knowledge of the matter said June 10.  
 “They can become a significant global player and there is
nothing to hold them back,” said  Seth Freeman , chief executive
officer at San Francisco-based EM Capital Management LLC, which
owns Reliance shares. “They have the financial wherewithal to
do that and energy would be the way they expand overseas.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A combination photograph shows Mukesh D. Ambani, chairman of India's Reliance Industries Ltd., left, and Anil Ambani, chairman of Reliance Power Ltd., right. Photographers: Adam Berry/Bloomberg (Mukesh D. Ambani)/Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg (Anil Ambani)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
