-- Hungary's Political Nominations Undermining Democracy, Transparency Says
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-06-17T10:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/hungary-s-political-nominations-undermining-democracy-transparency-says.html

          
          
             Hungary’s new government is
undermining democracy by nominating ruling-party politicians to
head independent institutions,  Transparency International  said.  
 Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s Fidesz party nominated Laszlo
Domokos, its parliamentary deputy since 1998, to head the State
Audit Office, which oversees public finances. Fidesz plans to
nominate its politician to head the regulator National Media and
Telecommunications Authority, Transparency said on its website.  
 Fidesz swept to power in April elections to take a two-
thirds majority in parliament, enough to change the
Constitution. Orban called the vote a “revolution” that gives
his party the mandate to build a “new system” 20 years after the
transition from communism to democracy.  
 “If independent institutions are led by politicians of the
nominating party, the independence of controlling bodies and
through this the efficient working of the democratic system and
in the long run its stability is threatened,” Transparency’s
Hungarian chapter said in a statement late yesterday.  
 Orban urged central bank President  Andras Simor , who leads
the independent Magyar Nemzeti Bank, to quit before his term
expires in 2013. Simor rejected the demand, saying it is his
“constitutional duty” to serve out his term. Orban last week
said the conflict can be “solved easily,” without elaborating.  
 Constitutional Court  
 Fidesz also proposed changing the selection process for
Constitutional Court justices to allow the ruling party to pick
the judges, the  Hungarian Helsinki Committe e, a human rights
organization, said in a statement on its website.  
 Previously, each parliamentary political party sent one
representative to a committee that made nominations, which need
two-thirds majority confirmation by lawmakers. The new bill
approved by lawmakers and awaiting the president’s signature,
gives parties their parliamentary weight in the nominating
committee, the Helsinki Committee said.  
 “Fidesz could alone decide on the new Constitutional Court
justices without the agreement of opposition parties,
determining the direction of constitutional jurisprudence and
threatening the current level of legal guarantees,” the Helsinki
Committee said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        