-- Turkey Central Bank Leaves Rates on Hold Citing Demand, Inflation Easing
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-06-17T16:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/turkey-central-bank-leaves-rates-on-hold-citing-demand-inflation-easing.html

          
          
             Turkey’s central bank left its
benchmark interest  rate  unchanged as inflation slowed and debt
problems in Europe threatened the country’s economic recovery.  
 The central bank in Ankara kept its one-week repo lending
rate at 7 percent, according to an e-mailed statement today.
That matched the  estimate  of all 12 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The bank will release the minutes of the meeting within
eight working days.  
 Turkey’s  inflation  rate dropped to 9.1 percent in May from
10.2 percent a month earlier, confirming the bank’s predictions
of a slowdown. Inflation will ease further toward the end of the
year and European debt problems mean that “uncertainty over
external demand is growing,” the bank said in today’s
statement.  
 “The central has become marginally more dovish,”
according to  Yarkin Cebeci , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist in
Istanbul who said he expects the bank to raise the main rate by
a total of 0.75 percentage points in the last three months of
the year. “It’s happy with core inflation, headline inflation
and inflation expectations.”  
 The lira was little changed after the decision, trading at
1.5633 per dollar in Istanbul.  Yields  on benchmark Turkish lira
bonds were unchanged at 8.8 percent.  
 Reiterates Guidance  
 Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  has held rates unchanged for seven
months. Today’s statement reiterated guidance that the bank aims
to keep the benchmark “at present levels for a while longer and
at low levels for a long time.”  
 Yilmaz cut rates by 10.25 percentage points in the 13
months from November 2008.  
 The bank said today that falling food and energy prices
mean inflation may end the year lower than the 8.4 percent it
forecast on April 29.  
 “The story is going precisely to script, with headline
inflation dipping lower in May,”  Timothy Ash , head of emerging-
market research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London,
wrote in a research note. With the global recovery still at
risk, “the case for holding rates lower in Turkey would appear
strong.”  
 Gross domestic product  growth was 6 percent year-on-year in
the last three months of 2009, the statistics office said on
March 31. Growth of about 12 percent is possible in the first
quarter, after which it will slow, Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said in Brussels on June 3.  
 Expected Inflation  
 Expectations for inflation over the next 12 months fell
after the May figures were announced. The average forecast
declined to 7.23 percent from 7.48 percent in the central bank’s
biweekly survey of economists and executives, released June 8.  
 The bank last month shifted its main policy rate to the
repo lending rate, saying that since it is a net lender to the
banking system, it makes more sense for that to be the benchmark
rather than the overnight borrowing rate. The bank also left the
 overnight borrowing rate  unchanged today.  
 The shift was part of the bank’s strategy to reduce the
amount of liquidity it provides to banks and unwind steps it
took to stabilize the financial system during the global
economic crisis. As well as cutting rates, the bank reduced
reserve requirements and extended the term of repo auctions to
three months to provide additional liquidity.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        