-- China Stocks Drop Most in 3 Weeks; Drugmakers, Technology Companies Plunge
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-18T08:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/vanke-poly-real-estate-group-co-yunnan-baiyao-china-equity-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  fell the most in
three weeks as pharmaceutical, technology and consumer companies
slumped on concern valuations are excessive given the prospect
of further monetary tightening and slowing economic growth.  
 Harbin Pharmaceutical Group Co.  tumbled 5.8 percent after
the government said it plans to curb gains in medicine prices.
NARI Technology Development Ltd., the third best performer on
the benchmark index this year, plunged by the 10 percent daily
cap.  Chongqing Brewery Co.  retreated 2.5 percent after Caixin
Online reported more than 500 workers went on strike.  
 “Small-cap stocks such as pharmaceutical and technology
companies are too expensive and their earnings growth cannot
catch up with share price gains,” said  Wang Zheng , a fund
manager at Jingxi Investment Management Co. in Shanghai. “We’ve
yet to see any sign that the government will rein in tightening
measures.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  dropped 47.02, or 1.8 percent,
to close at 2,513.22, after touching its lowest level since
April 2009. The decline was the biggest since May 31 and capped
a 2.2 percent loss for the week, when China’s markets were shut
for the first three days. Trading volumes on the Shanghai stock
market yesterday were the lowest since Dec. 31, 2008, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 The  CSI Smallcap 500 Index , which tracks smaller companies,
slid 4.2 percent today, the most since May 17.  
 The Shanghai gauge has lost 23 percent this year, the
third-worst performer among 93 global indexes tracked by
Bloomberg, on concern government measures to rein in housing
prices and the European debt crisis will damp growth. Russia’s
weighting in Morgan Stanley’s emerging-market model was
increased, helping it to overtake China, strategist  Jonathan Garner  wrote in a report yesterday.  
 Drugmakers Fall  
 Harbin Pharmaceutical lost 5.8 percent to 19.06 yuan,
paring its gain to 3.2 percent this year. Tianjin Tasly
Pharmaceutical Co. tumbled 8 percent to 27.57 yuan, the steepest
loss since June 2008.  Beijing Tongrentang Co. , a manufacturer of
traditional Chinese medicine, fell 5.4 percent to 24.49 yuan.  
 China’s National Development and Reform Commission will
draw up a plan to curb “substantial” gains in medicine prices
and curb profiteering, the planning agency said in a statement
yesterday after the market closed.  
 “Mounting evidence is pointing to a more stringent policy
for drug pricing,” BofA-Merrill Lynch Global Research analysts
Shaojing Tong and  Binnie Wong  said in a report sent to clients
today. “We caution investors of potential headline risks for
drug-related stocks, especially after their impressive
outperformance” in the first half, they wrote.  
 Technology Stocks  
 An index of  health-care stocks  slumped 4.6 percent, the
second-most among the 10 industry groups in the CSI 300. A four-
day, 12 percent slide has erased the index’s gains for the year
after a 94 percent rally in 2009.  
 Technology shares, this year’s best performers, were
today’s biggest losers with a 4.9 percent loss. The index trades
at 42 times reported earnings, compared with a multiple of 18
times for the broader CSI 300.  
 NARI Technology Development, a manufacturer of automation
products that’s gained 68 percent this year, tumbled 10 percent
to 41.04 yuan. Sanan Optoelectronics Co., a manufacturer of
lighting emitting diode, dropped 3.8 percent to 41.54 yuan. The
stock trades at 77 times reported profit.  
 China Satcom Guomai Communications Co. ,  a unit of the
nation’s only satellite-communications provider, slumped 10
percent to 7.84 yuan after the China Securities Regulatory
Commission blocked the company’s plans to sell assets and issue
new shares.  
 Share Sales  
 Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. , the country’s
biggest listed maker of wind turbines, lost 10 percent to 19.03
yuan, the most since August 2008. The company shelved a plan to
raise as much as HK$9.09 billion ($1.2 billion) in a share sale
in Hong Kong, citing poor market conditions.  
 Manufacturers also declined on concern that assembly-line
walkouts will increase, adding to costs.  
 Chongqing Brewery slid 2.5 percent to 36.36 yuan. More than
500 workers at the brewery went on strike yesterday to protest
the company’s share selling plan to Carlsberg A/S, Caixin Online
reported, citing workers who took part in the strike. Phone
calls to Chongqing Brewery’s offices went unanswered.  
 Employees went on strike yesterday at a Toyota Motor Corp.
affiliate in China, following wage disputes at Honda Motor Co.
Honda raised salaries 24 percent as two earlier strikes in
southern China crippled its production in the world’s largest
auto market, helping fan demands for higher pay at rival
manufacturers.  
 Automakers Drop  
 SAIC Motor Corp. , China’s biggest carmaker, retreated 3.8
percent to 12.05 yuan. FAW Car Co., which makes passenger cars
in China with Volkswagen AG, slid 1.4 percent to 16.05 yuan.  
 Inflation is likely to remain contained this year, the
World Bank said in a quarterly report on the Chinese economy
today. China should make more use of the exchange rate and
interest rates to help manage its economy and reduce the risks
from surging housing prices and overinvestment, it said.  
 China should return to a normalized monetary policy in the
second half of the year,  Xia Bin , one of the People’s Bank of
China’s academic advisers, said at a conference in Shanghai.  
 Shanghai Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park Development Co.  gained 4
percent to 9.78 yuan, the most since April 21. The company said
it will spend 1.02 billion yuan to form an investment company.
The new unit will invest in the health-care and financial
industries, it said.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Allen Wan   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        