-- Venezuela May Review Banco Federal Owner Mezerhane's Stake in Globovision
-- Jose Orozco
-- 2010-06-17T06:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/venezuela-may-review-banco-federal-owner-mezerhane-s-stake-in-globovision.html

          
          
             Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said his country is reviewing properties belonging to  Banco
Federal CA  owner  Nelson Mezerhane  and that it could evaluate his
stake in opposition television network Globovision.  
 Venezuela is searching for properties owned by owners of
the bank, which the government took over June 14 amid liquidity
problems, Chavez said last night on state television.  
 “If it’s true that this banker that left and said he won’t
return has shares in Globovision, then Mr. Zuloaga will have to
appear so we can reach an understanding about that channel,”
Chavez said. Globovision president  Guillermo Zuloaga  left the
country this week after authorities issued a warrant for his
arrest on charges related to hoarding new vehicles in his
residence last year.  
 Chavez has threatened to close  Globovision , Venezuela’s
only opposition network, during his 11 years in office on the
argument that the network supported a 2002 coup against him and
creates popular “unrest.”  
 Mezerhane, speaking on CNN’s Spanish-language channel June
14, said that the government seized the bank as political
retaliation for Globovision’s critical coverage. Mezerhane also
said that he wouldn’t return to Venezuela from Miami where he
was undergoing medical exams, because he would be subject to
discrimination by the Chavez government.  
 “If they have nothing to fear, they should appear and
answer to the courts,” Chavez said. Mezerhane has not been
charged with any crimes.  
 Venezuela took control of businesses related to Banco
Federal, including the bank’s brokerage, according to
resolutions published yesterday in the Official Gazette.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jose Orozco  in Caracas at 
 Jorozco8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        