-- Verizon Sees Wireless Moving to Tiered Pricing With 4G Network
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-06-17T21:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/verizon-sees-wireless-moving-to-tiered-pricing-with-4g-network.html

          
          
             Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier, may follow  AT&T Inc.  in introducing tiered
pricing and eliminating unlimited data plans this year as it
moves to its faster fourth-generation network technology.  
 “We will probably need to change the design of our pricing
where it will not be totally unlimited, flat rate,”  John Killian , chief financial officer of  Verizon Communications Inc. ,
the wireless unit’s parent, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York today.  
 The company anticipates “explosions in data traffic” over
wireless networks as new phones on 4G networks incorporate data-
heavy applications, such as video downloads, he said. Verizon is
working to keep its network running smoothly as more of its
customers switch to smartphones that connect to the Internet.  
 The company is finalizing new data plans for the 4G
network, which is expected to provide 10 times faster data rates
than older networks, and isn’t ready to announce specifics, said
Killian, 55. AT&T, the exclusive U.S. carrier for Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, said this month it will introduce plans based on the
amount of data customers use and stop offering unlimited plans
to manage the soaring data traffic.  
 “The more bandwidth that you make available, the faster it
will be consumed,” said  Craig Moffett , analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York. “From Verizon’s perspective, the
last thing you want is for another generation of consumers to be
conditioned to the idea that data is always going to be
uncapped.”  
 Vodafone Dividend  
 Verizon’s customers for smartphones, like the Droid and
Incredible, are using between 600 and 800 megabytes of data per
month, similar to what iPhone customers consume, Killian said.
Smartphone users will make up 70 percent to 80 percent of the
company’s customers “over time,” up from about 17 percent today,
he said.  
 Verizon co-owns its wireless network with  Vodafone Group
Plc . So far, New York-based Verizon Communications has gotten
cash out of the wireless operation through payment of a debt
that Verizon Wireless owes Verizon Communications. That debt
will be paid by 2011, Killian said.  
 To continue getting cash out of the company, Verizon
Wireless may start paying a dividend to both its parents in
2012, Killian said. The companies meet in December each year to
discuss their partnership, he said. The wireless business
accounts for about 70 percent of Verizon’s cash generation,
Killian said.  
 “We control the decision,” said Killian. Verizon owns 55
percent of the wireless company. “It’s a Verizon-controlled
decision as to when we pay the cash out and how much we pay.”  
 Verizon  fell  9 cents to $29.09 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading today. The shares have declined 12 percent
this year. Newbury, England-based Vodafone added 0.7 pence to
141.25 pence in London.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        