-- Visteon Wins Court Leave to Sell $1.25 Billion Shares for Bankruptcy Exit
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-06-17T17:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/visteon-wins-court-leave-to-sell-1-25-billion-shares-for-bankruptcy-exit.html

          
          
             Visteon Corp.  won court permission
to sell $1.25 billion worth of new stock to help fund its
reorganization, as a judge overruled objections from
shareholders of the bankrupt auto-parts maker.  
 Today’s decision was a victory for bondholders, who will
take control of Visteon should U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher S. Sontchi  in Wilmington, Delaware, approve the company’s
reorganization plan. Shareholders and Visteon’s bank lenders
told Sontchi they will appeal his decision.  
 Sontchi said he would sign an order authorizing the stock
sale, arranged by holders of about half of Visteon’ $870 million
in unsecured notes, after the company makes wording changes.  
 The sale will let Visteon leave bankruptcy “before the law
of economic gravity exerts its pull on this company,” Visteon
attorney  Marc Kieselstein  told Sontchi on June 15.  
 Visteon, based in Van Buren Township, Michigan, was spun
off from  Ford Motor Co.  in 2000. The company filed for
bankruptcy in 2009, listing assets of $4.58 billion and  debt  of
$5.32 billion in its Chapter 11 documents.  
 Shareholders and lenders opposed the stock sale, claiming
they could arrange a similar deal that didn’t require Visteon to
pay tens of millions of dollars in fees. The agreement between
Visteon and bondholders was unprecedented, shareholders argued.  
 No Cookie-Cutter  
 “These are not cookie-cutter issues, these are novel
issues,”  Philip Bentley , an attorney for shareholders, told
Sontchi.  
 The company must now win court permission to send its
reorganization plan, which includes the stock sale, to creditors
for a vote. Sontchi scheduled a hearing June 21 to decide
whether there is enough information in a disclosure statement
describing the reorganization for creditors to vote.  
 Sontchi will consider that tally in the coming months when
he makes a decision about whether to approve the plan and allow
the company to leave bankruptcy.  
 Visteon has proposed fully repaying lenders owed $1.63
billion and giving shareholders 2 percent of the stock and
warrants to buy as much as 3 percent more. Bondholders and other
unsecured creditors would get 95 percent of the new stock in
exchange for a $1.25 billion investment.  
 Under the stock plan, Visteon will pay at least $23 million
in fees and expenses to the bondholders who agreed to support
the stock sale, according to court documents.  
 Should the company later win final approval for its
reorganization plan, the company would pay bondholders $49.5
million more in fees, plus expenses for lawyers and financial
advisers. If Visteon attempts to exit bankruptcy without
allowing the bondholders to sponsor the stock sale, the
bondholders would have the right to seek court approval for a
$43 million breakup fee.  
 Necessary Cost  
 Visteon Chief Financial Officer  William G Quigley  said the
fees were a necessary cost to persuade bondholders to guarantee
all the stock will be purchased.  
 More than 40 bondholders have agreed to invest $300 million
in Visteon and guarantee that $950 million worth of new shares
will be purchased when Visteon leaves bankruptcy. The
bondholders include the distressed investing units of Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co., and hedge fund
manager Stark Investments.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        