-- Vivendi Directors Didn't Weigh Share Sale at 2001 Meeting, Bronfman Says
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-06-17T18:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/vivendi-directors-didn-t-weigh-share-sale-at-2001-meeting-bronfman-says.html

          
          
             Vivendi SA  directors didn’t focus on
a possible sale of shares by the company during a 2001 board
meeting,  Warner Music Group Corp.  Chairman  Edgar Bronfman Jr. 
told a Paris court.  
 The December 14, 2001, meeting was dominated by discussion
of the company’s purchase of entertainment assets from USA
Networks Inc., Bronfman said. Bronfman, who was Vivendi’s Vice
Chairman from 2000 until 2003, is accused of improperly gaining
$12.8 million from exercising stock options based on non-public
information he had about a planned share sale.  
 At the meeting, “we were asked to approve what Vivendi had
said it would do” with the USA Networks assets, Bronfman said.
“We were not asked to approve what it might do sometime in the
future.”  
 Bronfman said he was later surprised by the decision to
initiate a share sale, which came as he was beginning a planned
exercise of his options.  
 Bronfman and former Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Marie Messier  are among seven defendants at the trial, which focuses
on a $77 billion acquisition spree under Messier that almost
bankrupted Vivendi. A New York jury in January found the company
liable for making misleading statements to investors during the
same period, prompting it to set aside 550 million euros ($682
million) to cover a possible award in the lawsuit.  
 In his charges, investigating judge  Jean-Marie d’Huy 
focused on a single English-language slide presented at the
meeting which said that a sale of shares “could be envisaged”
in the future.  
 Lawyers for Bronfman and Vivendi’s former Chief Financial
Officer  Guillame Hannezo  have argued the sale wasn’t certain at
the time the men sold their own shares, making insider trading
impossible. Paris prosecutors advised against trying any of the
defendants before being overruled by d’Huy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        