-- Vornado Realty Trust Said to Make Offer to Buy Loan Servicer CW Financial
-- Jonathan Keehner
-- 2010-06-17T23:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/vornado-realty-trust-said-to-make-offer-to-buy-loan-servicer-cw-financial.html

          
          
             Vornado Realty Trust  submitted a bid
to buy CW Financial Services, the parent of the second-largest
manager of delinquent U.S. commercial real estate loans, a
person with direct knowledge of the offer said.  
 A winner for New York-based CW Financial may be selected in
the next week, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the bidding hasn’t been made public.  
 CWCapital Asset Management, a unit of  CW Financial , is the
special servicer of $144 billion of securitized real estate
loans, including more than $18 billion that are delinquent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has access to
valuable pricing and payment information, said  Ben Thypin , an
analyst at researcher Real Capital Analytics Inc. in New York.  
 “Owning a firm like CW gives access to information on a
lot of troubled loans as well as an established platform for
originating new ones,” Thypin said. “That puts the owner in
the driver’s seat and in control of distressed real estate that
they may want for themselves.”  
 Roanne Kulakoff , a spokeswoman for New York-based Vornado,
declined to comment. Representatives for CW Financial and
Beekman Advisors in McLean, Virginia, which is running the
auction, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  
 Caisse de Depot  
 CW Financial is majority owned by a unit of Montreal-based
Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada’s largest pension
fund manager. Francois Gaboury, spokesman for the Caisse’s Otera
Capital subsidiary, declined to comment on Vornado or other
potential bidders. An “announcement” on CW is being planned for
the end of the month, he said.  
 Vornado is the third-largest U.S. real estate investment
trust by market value. It is among the biggest owners of office
buildings in New York and Washington, and it also owns retail
properties nationwide. Its properties include New York’s 1 and 2
Penn Plaza, Chicago’s Merchandise Mart, and the Crystal City
complex in Northern Virginia.  
 The company had $789 million of  cash  and cash equivalents
at the end of the first quarter, according to its most recent
quarterly  filing  with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        