-- WaMu in Talks With Shareholders Over Making Changes to Bankruptcy Plan
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-06-17T16:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/wamu-in-talks-with-shareholders-over-making-changes-to-bankruptcy-plan.html

          
          
             Washington Mutual Inc. , the former
parent of the biggest U.S. bank to fail, put off a courtroom
showdown with shareholders as the two sides discuss making
changes to the company’s reorganization plan.  
 At the start of a hearing in Wilmington, Delaware,
attorneys for the company and shareholders asked a judge to
delay a decision on the shareholders’ request for a court-
sponsored investigation of WaMu’s decision not to sue federal
regulators and JPMorgan Chase & Co. over the bank failure.  
 “We are hopeful,” shareholder attorney Justin Nelson said
in court. The two sides are still debating how much information
WaMu must give shareholders about a potential lawsuit over the
2008 seizure of WaMu’s Washington Mutual Bank.  
 “There are serious and substantial issues that still
remain among the parties,” Nelson said.  
 Shareholders had asked Walrath to order an investigation of
WaMu’s assets, including the value of a potential lawsuit
against JPMorgan and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. for
their role in the 2008 collapse of Washington Mutual Bank.  
 The bank holding company filed for bankruptcy in September
2008, a day after federal regulators took Washington Mutual Bank
away from WaMu and sold it to JPMorgan for $1.9 billion.  
 Seattle-based WaMu has proposed splitting almost $10
billion in cash and tax refunds with JPMorgan and the FDIC in
exchange for an agreement not to sue them. That settlement is
the cornerstone of WaMu’s proposal to liquidate most of its
assets and distribute the proceeds to creditors.  
 Shareholders would get nothing under that proposal.  
 Company attorney  Brian Rosen  asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Mary F. Walrath , and both sides agreed, to put off the examiner
motion and a related dispute over information sharing until July
8.  
 The bankruptcy case is In Re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-
12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        