-- Weber Defies Trichet Over Europe Bond Bailout as ECB Succession Approaches
-- Richard Tomlinson
-- 2010-06-17T22:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/weber-defies-trichet-over-europe-bond-bailout-as-ecb-succession-approaches.html

          
          
             On May 10, just hours after the
European Central Bank stepped into government bond markets for
the first time,  Axel Weber  broke ranks with most of his
colleagues on the ECB’s Governing Council -- including his boss,
President  Jean-Claude Trichet .  
 “The purchase of government bonds poses significant
stability risks, and that’s why I’m critical of this part of the
ECB council’s decision,” said Weber, president of Germany’s
Bundesbank.  
 His comments, in an interview with the Frankfurt-based
Boersen-Zeitung that was later posted on the Bundesbank’s
 website , came after he had spent part of the previous night on
an emergency ECB conference call, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its August 2010 issue.  
 As finance ministers in Brussels hammered out a European
Union-led rescue package worth about $927 billion, Trichet
persuaded almost all of his council colleagues that purchasing
government bonds was essential to halt a bond market rout
triggered by Greece’s yawning fiscal deficit.  
 One of the dissenters was Weber -- the top candidate to
become the ECB’s third leader when Trichet’s eight-year term
expires in October 2011. Weber’s words matter because he
represents the central bank of more than one-quarter of the euro
region’s economy and a German habit of fiscal discipline and
price stability that most of the euro-member countries have
broken.  
 Just as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  held out on
rescuing debt-stricken Greece until the last minute, Weber, 53,
stands against getting the ECB too entwined with indebted
nations.  
 ‘First Among Equals’  
 “After Trichet, Weber is the first among equals,” says
 Juergen Michels , chief euro-region economist at Citigroup Inc.
in London. “He’s not an ideologue, but he does represent a lot
of the hard-money values that Germany is associated with.”  
 Weber’s intransigence presents a dilemma for European
leaders, who must decide in the next year whom to pick as
Trichet’s successor. The ECB president chairs a 22-member
council of the heads of all 16 central banks plus a 6-member
Executive Board.  
 By moving Weber from the Bundesbank’s bunker-like concrete
building in northern Frankfurt to the Eurotower, the ECB’s 36-
story glass-and-steel headquarters downtown, the member
countries would be guaranteed an inflation fighter in the German
tradition that underpinned the deutsche mark for half a century.
They would also be choosing a plain-spoken former monetary
economics professor who’s prepared to question policies he
thinks are hazardous.  
 Wanting Him?  
 “Weber’s public opposition to a policy move by the ECB
that the politicians are presumably very keen on could make his
appointment a bit difficult,” says  David Mackie , chief European
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. “They might feel:
‘Do we really want this guy to be in charge?’”  
 Weber was nonetheless right to warn about the danger of
buying bonds, Mackie says. By taking the helm of the world’s
second-most-important central bank, Weber would face “huge”
challenges, says  Nouriel Roubini , the New York University
economist who predicted the financial crisis.  
 “There’s a rising risk of breakup of the monetary union,
and the ECB will have to play an important role to prevent that
from happening,” says Roubini, who sees Weber as the “leading
candidate” for the top post.  
 Tackling the Deficit  
 Germany has a 2010 estimated budget deficit of 5 percent of
gross domestic product, smaller than all but 4 of the 16 euro-
member countries, and is fighting to keep the euro region under
fiscal control. Merkel insisted Greece’s deficit be “tackled at
its roots” before agreeing to the bailout package and is
touting Germany’s constitutional amendment on fiscal restraint,
which will start to go into effect in 2011, as an example to all
euro governments.  
 The euro has plunged 13.8 percent this year against the
dollar, falling below $1.20 on June 4. Even after the round of
rescue measures announced by the EU and the ECB, the extra yield
that investors demand to hold 10-year Spanish bonds over German
bunds is close to a euro-era high of 216 basis points. (A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.)  
 Trichet’s successor thus may be confronted with the
prospect of continuing to implement unconventional policy
measures to safeguard the currency, such as wading deeper into
the European debt market.  
 “The ECB has crossed the Rubicon with the bond
purchases,” says  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
Barclays Capital in London. By June 4, the ECB had purchased
40.5 billion euros ($50.1 billion) of bonds, according to the
bank.  
 First in Decades  
 If Weber takes over from Trichet, he’ll be the first German
to win a top EU post since Walter Hallstein, who led the
European Commission’s predecessor institution from 1958 to 1969.
To get this far, Weber -- who has a British wife, Diane, and
speaks fluent English -- gave up a two-decade-long academic
career specializing in applied monetary and international
economics when he became Bundesbank president in 2004.  
 “It’s the combination of his gravitas as an academic but
also as head of the Bundesbank that matters,” says  James Nixon ,
co-chief euro-region economist at Societe Generale SA in London.
“I find it really hard to see any other person in Germany who
can play in the same league.”  
 Weber, who declined to be interviewed, grew up in Glan-
Muenchweiler, a village of 1,200 people surrounded by tree-
covered hills in southwestern  Germany , about 45 kilometers (28
miles) from the French border. His father, Hans, taught at the
local primary school and still lives in the village.  
 Shoulder-Length Hair  
 While he was a student at the  University of Constance  from
1976 to 1982, Weber sported shoulder-length hair and
supplemented his income by working as a roofer when home during
vacations, recalls Rudolph Hanss, a former co-worker. Fellow
roofers nicknamed Weber “the theorizer” because of his
academic background, says Hanss, who’s still employed at the
same company. “But he certainly knew how to work.”  
 After graduating, Weber taught and did research from 1982
to 2004 at German universities in Siegen, Bonn, Frankfurt and
Cologne. He ran  Cologne’s marathon  in 2002, registering a time
of 4 hours, 7 minutes.  
 As an academic, Weber developed ties to the inner circle of
Berlin politics. He was a member of the so-called Five Wise Men,
the government’s panel of economic advisers, from 2002 to 2004.
Former students include Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen 
and  Jens Weidmann , Merkel’s chief economic adviser. Merkel has
increasingly enlisted Weber to sell unpopular financial bailouts
at home and abroad to skeptical politicians.  
 Time in Berlin  
 “He’s been very involved in rescuing the banks and dealing
with the politicians,” says  Joachim Fels , co-chief global
economist at Morgan Stanley in London. “My guess would be that
he’s spent more time in Berlin these past two years than
Frankfurt.”  
 On May 19, Weber spoke in a cramped meeting room in
Berlin’s rebuilt Bundestag building. His task: Selling the euro
bailout program to lawmakers. He wasn’t enjoying himself. “I’m
personally dismayed about the fact that following the bank
rescue program and help for Greece, I am now appearing before
the German parliament for the third time,” Weber said. “It
creates the impression that one is being driven by markets and
is not in control of markets.”  
 The Bundesbank president’s tone was counterproductive, says
Steffen Bockhahn, a legislator for the opposition Left Party who
attended the hearing.  
 That Human Touch  
 “Weber lacked sensitivity, that human touch that
alleviates the job of conveying bad news,” he says. “When
you’re trying to tell the keepers of the country’s public purse
why they have to sign off on a huge aid package, a certain
humanity can go a long way.”  
 Selling himself as the next ECB president may require Weber
to improve his conciliation skills. “He positions himself
explicitly,” says  Klaus Liebscher , who headed the Austrian
central bank from 1995 to 2008 and thus sat with Weber on the
ECB council. “He’s always honest about his convictions but
possibly not always diplomatic.”  
 Since becoming Bundesbank president, Weber has been a
regular guest at the annual August conference of central bankers
and economists hosted by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. During the afternoon break, he hikes
for hours with fellow participants in the surrounding Teton
Range.  
 Swiss National Bank President  Philipp Hildebrand  says he
met Weber for the first time on such a jaunt in 2003 or 2004.
 “We started walking and marched far into the Grand Tetons,”
he says. “I was impressed by his stamina and endurance. We just
made it back in time for dinner.”  
 Economics Department  
 Inside the Bundesbank, Weber holds the reins tightly. One
official says he wants to be No. 1 -- and wants others to accept
that. For example, after he arrived at the German central bank,
he assumed leadership of its economics department.  
 Weber reflects the Bundesbank’s traditional role as
guardian of price stability. Runaway inflation gripped Germany
in the early 1920s after the government printed bank notes to
finance crippling World War I reparation payments imposed by the
Allies. In 1957, the West German government created the
Bundesbank, whose prime responsibility was to safeguard the mark
as the bedrock of the country’s post-World War II recovery.  
 “When you talk with German monetary policy makers, they
still have the 1920s hyperinflation in their minds,” says
 Stephane Deo , chief European economist at UBS AG in London.
“They have an aversion to inflation that is much higher than in
other countries.”  
 Implementing the Bailout  
 The Bundesbank, which gave up setting Europe’s de facto
benchmark interest rate after the ECB took over in 1999, retains
 some powers . It acts as an agent for about a quarter of the bond
purchases conducted by the euro region’s network of central
banks -- in essence, helping implement the bailout package. And
more than 70 percent of all European banks that accessed ECB
money market funds last year did so through the Bundesbank.  
 While Weber generally advocates a tight monetary policy
stance to counter inflation risks, he can quickly adapt to a
crisis. After Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy
shattered confidence in financial markets and pushed Europe into
its worst recession since World War II, Weber turned pragmatic.
With other ECB council members, he became an advocate of pumping
unlimited liquidity into the banking system to encourage lending
and a supporter of lower interest rates.  
 ‘Further Easing’  
 “Owing to a remarkable decline in inflationary pressures
in the medium term and rapidly deteriorating economic prospects,
euro-area monetary policy in my view has enough leeway for
further easing if necessary,” Weber said at a banking
conference in Frankfurt on Nov. 21, 2008.  
 He sometimes speaks more forthrightly.  
 Weber landed on Trichet’s so-called black list last
November by revealing that the ECB would tighten its lending to
banks. The list is drawn up by the ECB’s press division and
given to all policy makers when they convene. The remarks
breached ECB protocol that major announcements be made by the
president. They also came within a week of a council meeting,
when officials are supposed to refrain from commenting on
policy.  
 Weber will temper his style if he becomes ECB president,
says  Allan Meltzer , political economy professor at Pittsburgh’s
Carnegie Mellon University. “Anybody in that job will have to
make consensus moves,” says Meltzer, who has known Weber for
more than 30 years and is the author of a two-volume history of
the U.S. Federal Reserve.  
 Draghi’s History  
 The only challenger for Trichet’s 35th-floor corner office
is  Mario Draghi , 62, governor of the Bank of Italy. His handicap
may be his previous job as vice chairman of the international
division of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from 2002 to 2005. In 2000,
Goldman Sachs helped Greece shave 2.4 billion euros from its
official deficit through currency swaps, the New York-based bank
said in a Feb. 21 statement. The Bank of Italy said on Feb. 17
that Draghi had “nothing to do with those transactions.”  
 Merkel, 56, has won French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
support for Weber’s candidacy, German magazine Spiegel reported
in February, and the newspaper Handelsblatt said in May that
Germany agreed to support the bailout package in return for a
guarantee Weber would get the job. Government spokeswoman Sabine
Heimbach denied there was a deal in a May 12 statement.  
 “If Merkel says she wants Weber, Sarkozy probably won’t
stand in her way,” says  Philippe Chalmin , an economics
professor at the University of Paris-Dauphine who advises
France’s government on economic policy. “Now it’s Germany’s
turn.”  
 And it may be the turn of Weber, the former construction
worker, to rebuild the ECB as a central bank that stands apart
from governments. As he told Bundesbank employees in Mainz,
Germany, on May 31: “The damaged foundations of the currency
union need to be reinforced.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Tomlinson  in London at 
 rtomlinson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Axel Weber, president of Deutsche Bundesbank, poses for a photograph at a news conference in Frankfurt on March 9, 2010. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
