-- Sugar Futures Falls From Seven-Week High; Orange Juice Gains; Cotton Slips
-- Debarati Roy
-- 2010-06-17T19:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/white-sugar-snaps-10-day-rise-in-london-on-speculation-gains-were-overdone.html

          
          
             Sugar fell from a seven-week high in
New York and snapped a 10-session advance in London on
speculation that prices had climbed too high. Cotton and orange
juice also declined.  
 Sugar prices have gained 10 percent this month in New York
to their highest level since April 23, partly on speculation
that demand from importers would remain buoyant. Two years of
production shortfalls reduced stockpiles by 27 million metric
tons, London-based broker Czarnikow Group Ltd. said in a report
this month.  
 “The market is correcting,” said  Naim Beydoun  of Rolle,
Switzerland-based Swiss Sugar Brokers. Commercial buying and
short-covering are fading, he said, referring to purchases of
commodities to close bets that prices would fall.  
 Raw sugar for October delivery slid 0.45 cent, or 2.8
percent, to 15.6 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
the biggest decline since June 2.  
 Refined-sugar futures for August delivery slumped $12.20,
or 2.3 percent, to $520.30 a ton on the Liffe exchange in
London. The decline halted a 10-session rally, the longest for a
most-active contract since early January.  
 “The market may be due for a short-term correction,”  Nick Penney , a trader with Sucden Financial Ltd. in London, wrote in
a report e-mailed today. “While the fundamentals continue
unchanged, the market is looking a bit stretched on the
upside.”  
 Prices Had Doubled  
 Prices more than doubled last year after excess rains in
Brazil and a weak monsoon in India crimped output.  
 Raw sugar probably will trade between 15 cents and 17 cents
in the third quarter as stockpiles are rebuilt before Ramadan in
August, when Muslims mark the end of their fasts with a feast,
 Kona Haque , a London-based analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd.,
wrote in a report e-mailed yesterday.  
 Cotton futures for December delivery declined 0.28 cent, or
0.4 percent, to 79.42 cents a pound on ICE, ending a three-day
rise.  
 Also in New York, orange-juice futures for September
delivery retreated 0.5 cent, or 0.3 percent, to $1.441 a pound.
The commodity has jumped 80 percent in the past year.  
 Brazil’s orange crop, the world’s largest, may rise 17
percent next year, the first increase in three years, on drier
weather, said  Sucocitrico Cutrale Ltda.  and Louis Dreyfus & Cie
SA, which account for 45 percent of global output.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 M. Shankar  in London at 
 mshankar@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        