-- MySpace Co-President Hirschhorn Leaves; Jones to Lead
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-06-17T23:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/myspace-co-president-hirschhorn-resigns-from-site-to-return-to-new-york.html

          
          
             MySpace Co-President  Jason Hirschhorn  resigned from  News Corp. ’s social-networking site
effective June 30, the latest management change as Internet
users flock to bigger rival Facebook Inc.  
 Hirschhorn, who joined Los Angeles-based MySpace last year,
is returning to New York, News Corp. Chief Digital Officer  Jon Miller  said today in an e-mailed statement. Co-President  Mike Jones  will lead the business, and there are no plans to bring in
additional management, Miller said.  
 MySpace already has gone through a  management  shakeup this
year as usage declines. Hirschhorn and Jones were promoted to
co-presidents in February after  Owen Van Natta  stepped down as
chief executive of the unit. A former Facebook executive, Van
Natta resigned less than a year after he was hired to replace
co-founder  Chris DeWolfe .  
 “Jason is like family to me, and as expected, he’s done
everything we asked of him and more,” Miller said. “As I know
Jason agrees, Mike Jones has done an outstanding job leading
MySpace into its next evolution and is the right person to take
the reins.”  
 Hirschhorn was brought on as chief operating officer and
Jones as chief product officer in April 2009, three days after
Van Natta was hired.  
 “Yes I am moving back to NYC. Concrete jungle where dreams
are made of,” Hirschhorn said on  Twitter . “I believe in
MySpace, its leader Jonesy and its wonderful team.”  
 MySpace spokeswoman Tracy Akselrud confirmed in an e-mail
that the resignation is effective at the end of the month.
TechCrunch.com reported Hirschhorn’s resignation earlier today.  
 Less Clutter  
 As co-presidents, Hirschhorn and Jones aimed to reduce
clutter on users’ profile pages and expand music, movie and game
features, according to a March interview. The new offerings,
designed to foster interaction around entertainment, were to be
introduced in stages over the year.  
 MySpace lost 12 percent of its worldwide users in the 12
months through April, bringing the total to 111.2 million unique
visitors, according to ComScore Inc. In the U.S., the tally
dropped 2.6 percent to 69.2 million. Meanwhile, Facebook
steadily climbed. Unique visitors are up 69 percent to 519.1
million worldwide, and in the U.S. they’re up 80 percent to
121.8 million, according to ComScore.  
 ‘Work in Progress’  
 “MySpace is a work in progress,” said  Chase Carey , News
Corp.’s chief operating officer, on a May 4 earnings conference
call. Carey said the goal was for MySpace to be cash-positive
going into 2011.  
 Revenue  for News Corp.’s “other” business category, which
includes digital properties such as MySpace, fell 31 percent to
$327 million in the quarter ended March 31. Sales at the digital
properties were dragged down by lower search revenue, according
to a regulatory filing.  
 “We’ve got to admit that in the last two or three years, I
think, we made some big mistakes but we got to find new
management now, we’ve started to introduce new features, there
will be a lot of changes coming through the summer and we have
got to judge it at the end of this year,” News Corp. Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  said on the May call.  
 MySpace has been working on a new advertising deal to
replace the $900 million multiyear partnership with  Google Inc. 
that expires this month.  
 News Corp.’s Class A shares fell 1 cent to $14.15 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. They have risen 3.4 percent this year.  
 AOL Sale  
 Hirschhorn’s departure comes on the same day that AOL Inc.
announced it sold its smaller social-networking site Bebo to
Criterion Capital Partners LLC. The sale price was less than 2
percent of the $850 million that AOL paid for it two years ago.  
 AOL received less than $10 million for Bebo, said a person
familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified since
the price wasn’t made public.  
 Murdoch purchased MySpace’s parent company in 2005 for $580
million as part of an effort to add more online advertising to
his traditional media outlets of newspapers, television and
film. The site was the most-popular social-networking service at
the time, allowing users to create unique pages with music, blog
postings, pictures and comments from friends.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        