-- Yuan Forwards Climb as Global Stocks Gain During Chinese Three-day Holiday
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-17T03:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/yuan-forwards-climb-as-global-stocks-gain-during-chinese-three-day-holiday.html

          
          
             Yuan forwards strengthened after a
three-day holiday in China’s financial markets as gains in
global stocks fueled investor optimism for economic growth.  
 The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares climbed 2.9 percent
in the first three days of this week. A leading indicator for
China’s economy rose 1.7 percent in April on new construction
work, The Conference Board said on June 15. Money-market rates
climbed as  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  may raise at least
$23 billion in the world’s largest initial public offering.  
 The yuan’s 12-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.2
percent to 6.747 per dollar as of 10:58 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts show
traders are betting on 1.2 percent appreciation from the spot
rate of 6.8294.  
 “Equity markets have fared stronger over the past three
days, and NDFs are just playing catch up,” said  Bernard Yeung ,
head of foreign-exchange trading at National Australia Bank Ltd.
“I expect selling pressure to continue” on dollars against
yuan forwards, he said.  
 China will strengthen scrutiny of speculative capital
inflows to prevent asset bubbles, Wang Xiaoyi, deputy director
of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, wrote in an
article published in the latest edition of China Forex Magazine.  
 Money-Market Rates  
 The yield on the one-year onshore interest-rate swap, a
fixed cost paid to receive a floating one, climbed 11 basis
points to 2.38 percent. The seven-day repurchase  rate  rose one
basis point to 2.65 percent.  
 “Liquidity in China is likely to be tight as the markets
open today after a three-day holiday,”  Frances Cheung , a senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, wrote in a note.
The Agricultural Bank IPO “could potentially lock up trillions
of yuan of funds, driving repo rates higher,” the note said.  
 The People’s Bank of China sold 5 billion yuan ($732
million)of one-year bills at 2.0929 percent and 18 billion yuan
of three-year notes at 2.68 percent in open-market operations
today, both unchanged from previous sales, according to traders
at BOC International Holdings Ltd., Citic Securities Co. and
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Chen  in Hong Kong at 
 bchen45@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        