-- Yukon Development Sells Inaugural C$100 Million Offering: Canada Credit
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-06-17T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/yukon-development-sells-inaugural-c-100-million-offering-canada-credit.html

          
          
             The Yukon Development Corp. sold
C$100 million ($98 million) in 30-year bonds, its first debt
offering, to fund an increase in the territory’s power-
generating capability.  
 The 5 percent bonds mature in June 2040 and were priced to
yield 123.5 basis points over similar-maturity government
benchmarks,  Trevor Thom , director of debt capital markets and
 Les Peterdy , vice president of debt capital markets at Toronto-
Dominion’s TD Securities unit, said by phone from Toronto
yesterday. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “We had a good solid interest in the book,” said Peterdy.
There was a “small oversubscription,” the bankers said.
Toronto-Dominion was lead manager of the sale, with Bank of Nova
Scotia, Royal Bank of Canada and Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce the other members of the syndicate.  
 Yukon Development is the owner of the territory’s primary
electricity producer. The Yukon, which occupies the north-west
corner of the country and is the smallest of Canada’s three
territories, is the site of the 1897-98 gold rush and the
setting for the  Jack London  novel “Call of the Wild.” Its
34,000 people live in an area larger than California where
temperatures can dip below minus 76 degrees Fahrenheit.  
 The funds will be used to build a power station that will
more than double the amount of electricity generated by the Mayo
River, Peterdy said.  
 ‘Significant Revenue Support’  
 Provincial and municipal debt has lagged behind Canadian
federal government bonds during the rally that took place after
reports of European governments struggling to finance deficits
led investors to seek the safest assets. Provincial returns
trailed federal debt from March through May, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data.  
 Standard & Poor’s rated the senior unsecured bonds AA, its
third-highest rating. The territory has “significant revenue
support from the Canadian federal system, extremely low debt and
a solid economy compared with that of similarly rated domestic
and international peers,” S&P analyst Bhavini Patel wrote in a
June 14 report.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  yesterday said the uneven global recovery and prospects
of renewed weakness in Europe mean that future increases in the
central bank’s benchmark interest rate aren’t “preordained.”  
 “The Bank must balance the competing influences on
Canadian activity and inflation of momentum in domestic demand
and the increasingly uneven global recovery,” Carney, said in a
speech in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. “In light of the
scale and volatility of these conflicting forces, it should be
evident that no particular path for monetary policy is
preordained.”  
 Note Auction  
 The Bank of Canada on June 1 became the first central bank
in the Group of Seven to raise  interest rates  since July 2008,
and signaled that further increases could be delayed.  
 Canada auctioned C$3 billion of notes maturing in three
years yesterday, drawing an average yield of 2.393 percent.  
 The government received bids of C$7.3 billion for the 2.5
percent securities maturing in September 2013, according to a
statement on the Bank of Canada’s Web site.  
 The Regional Municipality of Peel, comprising the southern
Ontario cities of Brampton, Caledon and Mississauga, sold C$300
million of 5.1 percent bonds due in June 2040. The bonds priced
to yield 133.5 basis points over similar-maturity benchmarks.
Joint-lead managers of the sale were Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, National Bank of Canada and Royal Bank of Canada.  
 The Yukon’s gross domestic product grew 9.7 percent, or
C$168 million, to C$1.9 billion in 2008, according to the
territorial government’s Web site. It produces gold, silver,
copper and natural gas.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 Cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        