-- Zloty Weakens on Concern Over European Debt Crisis, Koruna, Forint Retreat
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-06-17T08:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/zloty-weakens-on-concern-over-european-debt-crisis-koruna-forint-retreat.html

          
          
             The Polish zloty fell against the
euro, leading a decline in east European currencies, amid
concern the debt crisis in the euro region economy will worsen.  
 The zloty lost 0.7 percent to 4.0955 per euro as of 10 a.m.
in Warsaw. The Czech koruna fell 0.5 percent to 25.819 against
the common currency and the Hungarian forint weakened 0.3
percent to 281.00. The three depreciated the most among 25
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 European Union leaders will meet in Brussels to discuss the
region’s economies and the so-called stability and growth pact.
Spain faces a jump in borrowing costs at bond auctions today as
growing investor concern the country may need external help to
ease a credit crunch forces the government to pay more to
finance its budget deficit. The yen rose for a second day
against the euro.  
 “Rising global concern and the decline in the euro against
the dollar immediately translates into weaker zloty,” Bank BPH
economists wrote in a note to clients. They expect the currency
to trade close to 4.10 per euro today.  
 Poland’s central bank may raise interest rates if the
country’s budget deficit doesn’t narrow next year, Monetary
Policy Council member  Jerzy Hausner  said yesterday in Warsaw.
The bank may need to tighten policy if the fiscal shortfall
remains at about 7 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, he
told economists at the meeting.  
 “Rumors of a 7 percent of GDP deficit would make Poland
one of the worse European performers in primary cyclically
adjusted terms,” BNP Paribas SA emerging market strategists
wrote in a note to clients. “Although the budget in outline is
only expected to be released later this month, comments from
central bankers suggest that there are no fiscal consolidation
efforts whatsoever.”  
 Poland, the only European Union member to avoid an economic
contraction last year, has been unable to prevent its budget
 deficit  widening to more than twice the EU’s 3 percent limit of
GDP after rising unemployment depleted state coffers. The budget
shortfall rose to 7.1 percent of GDP last year and may widen to
7.3 percent in 2010, the European Commission estimates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        