-- Zoellick Says Europe Must Tighten Budgets, Publish Stress Tests on Banks
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-06-17T15:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-17/zoellick-urges-europe-to-tighten-budgets-publish-bank-stress-test-results.html

          
          
             European policy makers must rein in
their budget deficits and publish stress tests on banks because
the financial package designed to fight the region’s debt crisis
only buys them time, World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said.  
 The 750 billion-euro ($920 billion) aid plan “created an
opportunity to take further action and it’s important that
Europe use the time well,” Zoellick said in an interview late
yesterday in New York. “We’re not through that period by any
means yet.”  
 European leaders meet in Brussels today to advance their
plan to establish a financial backstop to support high-deficit
nations such as Spain and defend the euro. The single currency
has fallen 15 percent this year as Greece’s near-default fueled
concern about rising debt in the region.  
 The euro’s depreciation can help boost European exports in
the short term, Zoellick said. Still, the drop also reflects a
weakening in confidence in European securities and will hurt the
U.S. and other countries, he said.  
 Going into the Group of 20 meetings of heads of states and
governments in Toronto next week, “people are concerned about
Europe managing its way through the problem of sovereign
credit,” Zoellick said.  
 European governments will need to make “ongoing efforts”
to tighten their budget gaps and control longer-term spending,
Zoellick said, welcoming French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
decision to raise the retirement age. He also called for
policies that will foster growth.  
 Stress Tests  
 Another “important step” is to run and publish stress
tests in the banking industry, Zoellick said. “The sooner they
move toward transparency, the sooner they move towards stress
tests, this will help alleviate some of the uncertainty.”  
 The German government backs publication of stress tests for
banks, Finance Ministry spokesman  Michael Offer  said today. “We
see that markets are unsettled and the trust of banks in each
other has deteriorated,” Offer said in an e-mailed statement.
“Transparency can be helpful as a stabilizing factor.”  
 The Bank of Spain has said it would publish the results of
stress tests on the nation’s lenders, even as banking groups in
Germany and the U.K. said disclosing details on specific
institutions carried risks.  
 Spain’s Debt  
 The Spanish debt situation is “different” from that of
Greece, which last month got a 110 billion-euro aid package from
European nations and the International Monetary Fund, Zoellick
said.  
 “The Spanish competitiveness situation is different, but
each country has its own challenges that it has to deal with and
it’s important that Europe as a whole address that
combination,” he said.  
 At a briefing in Washington today, an International
Monetary Fund spokeswoman said the decisions by Spain and
Germany to publish stress-test results will boost financial
market confidence.  
 Caroline Atkinson , the IMF’s director of external
relations, said “uncertainty” is one of the biggest issues
affecting confidence in financial systems, and the publication
of bank stress-test results “can be very helpful” by giving
investors more information.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        