-- Taiwan Central Banker Perng Asks Lenders to Help Stop Housing Speculation
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2010-07-12T03:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/taiwan-central-banker-perng-asks-lenders-to-help-stop-housing-speculation.html

          
          
             Taiwan’s central bank Governor  Perng Fai-nan  called on financial institutions to take steps to
prevent housing speculation after complaints from citizens.  
 “Many people have written to show their dissatisfaction
that in the past one to two months, houses have been purchased
and then resold at a higher price within a short time,” Perng
wrote in a July 2  letter  to the chairmen of all financial
institutions on the island and published yesterday on the
central bank’s website. “Many speculative investors have bought
more than 200 houses and contracted real-estate agents to sell
them, with the speculative money having come from bank loans.”  
 Taiwan’s monetary authority is seeking to rein in property
speculation as lending expands and prices rise, spurred by
record-low interest rates. The central bank raised its benchmark
rate to 1.375 percent on June 24 as Taiwan’s economy recovers
and introduced a 70 percent cap on loans for second homes while
ordering banks not to extend further loans for renovations  
 “The central bank has been applying pressure to get banks
to stop lending to speculators for some time,” said  Matthew Smith , a banking analyst at Macquarie Securities Ltd. in Taipei.
“One concern is that if property prices come down, speculators
will be the first to bail and the banks will be left dealing
with the risk.”  
 Farglory Land Development Co.,  Taiwan’s biggest
construction company by value, gained 1.22 percent to NT$66.20
as of 11:34 a.m., the highest since June 24.  Cathay Real Estate
Development Co. , the second largest, was unchanged. Farglory
Land spokesman  Huang Chih-hung  and Chen Ren Tse, a spokesman at
Cathay Real Estate, weren’t immediately available for comment.  
 “This is not entirely a new regulation,” said  Frank Lin ,
an analyst at KGI Securities Co. “It’s just improving previous
policies made by the central bank. It’s not a surprise.”  
 Housing prices in metropolitan Taipei rose 20 percent last
year and may climb a further 10 percent this year as buyers look
for places to invest cash, Lee Jain-ming, a researcher at Sinyi
Realty Co., said in May. Interest rate increases may have little
effect on damping prices as wealthy buyers don’t need to rely on
bank loans to fund purchases, he said at the time.  
 Consumer Loans  
 Housing prices in Taipei climbed 4.8 percent in the first
quarter, Lee said.  
 Banks should consider offering other products which allow
customers to invest excess savings while allowing lenders to
control risks, Perng wrote in the July 2 letter.  
 Taiwan consumer loans, which include housing purchases and
renovations, climbed for 22 months through to May when they rose
4.5 percent from a year earlier to NT$6.85 trillion ($214
billion), according to central bank data.  
 Minister of Finance  Lee Sush-der  said March 2 his ministry
will suspend the sale of state-owned prime land to curb
speculation.  
 The gap between owning and renting an apartment in Taipei
has risen to a decade high as borrowers focus on capital gains
over rental yields, based on data from Sinyi Realty and the
Tsuei Ma Ma Foundation for Housing and Community Service,
Taiwan’s top rental agency.  
 Meets With Banks  
 Housing, renovation and construction loans were the
equivalent of 52 percent of Taiwan’s gross domestic product, the
bank said in a June 24  statement  announcing the new rules on
lending in Taipei City and 10 suburbs within Taipei County. The
concentration of lending in Taipei may undermine the
effectiveness of banks’ risk management, it said.  
 Bank of Taiwan will ask its loan department to tighten
scrutiny of loan applications, and demand more documents or lend
less to borrowers who seemed suspicious, Bruce Yang, a spokesman
at the state-controlled lender, said today. Mortgages made up 20
percent of the lender’s loan portfolio, or about NT$400 billion,
Yang said.  
 The central bank said July 8 it met with executives from
commercial banks following media reports that some lenders
classified home loans taken out by company executives as
corporate loans, instead of consumer banking, to evade the
stricter rules.  
 “It’s been hard for the central bank to prevent these
actions even after the recent measures,” Perng wrote in the
July 2 letter sent to all financial institutions. “Please
explain to your workers to closely guard against such cases, as
effectively controlling this risk is better for the healthy
development of the housing market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Taiwan’s Central Bank Governor Perng Fai-nan  
                       
                         
                           Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Perng Fai-nan, governor of the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), speaks during a news conference in Taipei. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Perng Fai-nan, governor of the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), speaks during a news conference in Taipei. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
