-- Andy Schleck Takes Tour Stage; Armstrong Loses Ground, Says He Can't Win
-- James Cone
-- 2010-07-11T19:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/andy-schleck-wins-stage-eight-at-tour-de-france-cadel-evans-leads-race.html

          
          
             Andy Schleck  won stage eight of
cycling’s Tour de France today, with Cadel Evans taking the race
leader’s yellow jersey. Record seven-time champion  Lance Armstrong  lost time after being involved in three crashes and
said his chance of victory has disappeared.  
 Saxo Bank rider Schleck of Luxembourg, the overall runner-
up last year, edged  Samuel Sanchez  of Euskaltel at the end of
the 189-kilometer (117.5-mile) route from Station des Rousses to
Morzine-Avoriaz, with Australia’s Evans of the BMC Racing team
among a pack 10 seconds back.  
 Schleck trails Evans by 20 seconds in the overall standings
following the first major mountain stage of this year’s race.
Last year’s champion Alberto Contador, a Spaniard who rides for
Astana, is a further 41 seconds back. Armstrong of the U.S.
slips to 39th, 13 minutes, 26 seconds behind the leader, with
teammate and countryman  Levi Leipheimer  now RadioShack’s closest
challenger in eighth.  
 Britain’s  Bradley Wiggins  of Team Sky was among other
contenders to lose time after he was dropped on the final climb.
Armstrong finished almost 12 minutes behind Schleck.  
 Armstrong, 38, said he had “a very bad day” after
crashing and struggled to recover, Agence France-Presse
reported.  
 “My Tour is over,” Armstrong was cited as saying. “But I
will stay in the race. I will enjoy it, I’ll try and take some
pleasure out of it, to support the team. I’m not complaining.”  
 The comments were confirmed by Philippe Maertens, a
spokesman for Armstrong’s RadioShack team.  
 There is a rest day tomorrow. The following day the riders
face a 204.5-kilometer ride through the Alps from Morzine-
Avoriaz to Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne. The race ends July 25 in
Paris.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        