-- Arizona Immigration Lawsuit Isn't Political, U.S. Attorney General Says
-- Cotten Timberlake
-- 2010-07-11T15:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/arizona-immigration-lawsuit-isn-t-political-u-s-attorney-general-says.html

          
          
             Politics wasn’t behind the U.S.
government’s decision to sue Arizona to block the state’s new
law aimed at reducing illegal immigration, U.S. Attorney General
 Eric Holder  said.  
 It’s “not true at all” that the Democratic Obama
administration is trying to brand Republicans as anti-
immigration before the November midterm elections, Holder said
on the CBS program “Face the Nation” today.  
 “The basis for this was a legal determination by those of
us at the Justice Department that the law was inconsistent with
the Constitution,” Holder said. “There are a substantial
number of Republicans and people in law enforcement who thought
the decision that we made to file the lawsuit was, in fact, the
correct one.”  
 The U.S. government argues in its July 6 lawsuit that
under the Constitution immigration is a matter for federal
policy only. The lawsuit, filed by the Justice Department in
federal court in Phoenix, seeks an injunction against
implementing the Arizona law that is set to take effect on July
29.  
 “We can’t have a patchwork of 50 states developing their
own immigration policy,” White House adviser  David Axelrod  said
on “Fox News Sunday.”  
 Arizona Law  
 The Arizona statute makes it a state crime to be in the
U.S. illegally. It requires local police officers who come in
contact with someone for a law enforcement reason to check the
individual’s immigration status if they suspect the person lacks
proper documentation.  
 Arizona Governor  Jan Brewer  said July 6 that U.S. policies
have left the state “under attack” from Mexican drug and
immigrant-smuggling cartels. The legislation doesn’t allow
racial profiling or discrimination, the Republican Brewer said
when she signed the measure in April.  
 The law allows the state to provide needed help to the
federal government, Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl  said on “Fox News
Sunday.”  
 “It’s a matter of Arizona providing some additional law-
enforcement assistance for the federal government,” said Kyl, a
Republican. “It would be one thing if the federal government
had controlled the border already, but it hasn’t.”  
 The Obama administration would rather have Republican
support in passing legislation that would bolster border
enforcement and permit temporary foreign workers into the U.S.,
Axelrod said.  
 ‘Pretty Sharp’  
 “You have to have people willing to be partners,” he said
on CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “You look at the
comments on the other side; I think they’ve been pretty sharp.”  
 President  Barack Obama  has said overhauling immigration law
is one of his highest priorities. In 2007, Congress failed in an
attempt to rewrite immigration legislation for the first time in
20 years.  
 Obama said in April that lawmakers may lack the
“appetite” to try again. Leaders of Obama’s Democratic Party
are focusing on measures to improve border security before
addressing the 11 million illegal immigrants now in the U.S.  
 Democrats may get Republicans on board with legislation
that has a temporary-worker program by agreeing to penalize
illegal immigrants.  
 Those who broke the law entering the U.S. have to go to
“the back of the line,” said Representative  Brian Bilbray , a
California Republican, on ABC’s “This Week.”  
 Representative  Luis Gutierrez , an Illinois Democrat, said
on “This Week” that the millions of people thought to be
illegally in the country aren’t likely to leave and apply for
re-entry.  
 Bilbray “thinks this is kind of like ‘Fantasy Island,’
right, where 12 million people are just going to disappear like
a mirage,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        