-- Armstrong Says `No Tears' as Bid for Final Tour de France Win Flounders
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-11T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/armstrong-says-no-tears-as-bid-for-final-tour-de-france-win-flounders.html

          
          
             Lance Armstrong  ended the first Alps
stage of the Tour de France with his bid for an eighth and final
victory in cycling’s premier race in tatters.  
 The Texan crashed just before the first of two climbs
yesterday and struggled to recover. He finished the eighth
stage, to Morzine-Avoriaz, 11 minutes, 45 seconds behind winner
 Andy Schleck  of Luxembourg.  
 “The Tour’s finished for me,” Armstrong said, according
to a taped interview sent to media by his RadioShack team. “But
I can stay in the race, try and win stages, help the team.”  
 The 38-year-old Armstrong, who came out of retirement to
place third at last year’s race, said in June this will be his
final time riding the Tour de France. The American said that,
for the remainder of the race, which ends July 25 in Paris,
he’ll try and “appreciate the fact that I’m not coming back.”  
 Asked if it was the end of an era, Armstrong replied “I
think that era ended a long time ago.”  
 Armstrong clipped a curb coming out of a roundabout at
about 60 kilometers per hour (37 miles per hour) and fell. While
he was led back up to the main pack of riders by teammates, he
lost time to race contenders over the last climb. Armstrong fell
again after being caught in a crash involving two Euskaltel-
Euskadi riders, Agence France-Presse reported.  
 Evans Leads  
 Australia’s two-time runner-up  Cadel Evans  of BMC Racing
took the race leader’s yellow jersey. The stage win lifted
Schleck to second place, 20 seconds behind. Defending champion
 Alberto Contador  of Spain is third, 41 seconds further back.  
 Schleck rides for Team Saxo Bank and Contador for Astana.  
 Armstrong, 39th of the  186 remaining riders , said his left
hip is painful and he’ll welcome today’s rest day. The U.S.’s
 Levi Leipheimer , who is eighth overall, is the highest-placed of
Armstrong’s teammates.  
 Armstrong flashed a grin and shook his head as he struggled
up the final climb and he was surrounded by photographers as he
finished the stage.  
 “No tears from me,” the rider said. “I’ve had a lot of
years here where it’s been very different so I’m not going to
dwell on today.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        