-- ASX, BHP, Orica, Rio, Santos, Tabcorp, Telstra: Australian Stocks Preview
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-07-11T22:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/asx-bhp-orica-rio-santos-tabcorp-telstra-australian-stocks-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may rise or fall in Australia. This preview
includes news announced after markets closed July 9. All prices
are from that day’s close unless otherwise stated.  
 The S&P/ASX 200 Index  futures contract  due in September
climbed 0.2 percent to 4,392 as of 6:59 a.m. in Sydney. The  Bank
of New York Australia ADR Index  rose 1.7 percent. The  S&P/ASX
200 Index  gained 0.9 percent to 4,396.30.  
 Mining shares: Copper futures for September delivery added
1.3 percent to $3.0535 a pound on the Comex in New York.  
 BHP Billiton  (BHP AU), the world’s largest mining company,
rose 0.7 percent to A$38.43 in Sydney. Its American depositary
receipts climbed 1.6 percent in New York trading. BHP’s $20
billion Olympic Dam expansion may be delayed or crimped by a
protracted environmental assessment and the cost, the Australian
Financial Review reported, citing Mitch Williams, the South
Australian opposition party’s mining spokesman.  
 Rio Tinto Group  (RIO AU), the world’s third-largest mining
company, gained 1.6 percent to A$68.10 in Sydney. Rio Tinto is
inviting bids of as much as $75 million for its Chapudi coal
exploration assets in South Africa, the Independent on Sunday
reported, citing a person it said was close to the company.  
 Oil companies: Crude oil for August delivery rose 0.9
percent to $76.08 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange,
the highest settlement since June 28.  
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  (WPL AU), Australia’s second-
largest oil and gas producer, increased 1.1 percent to A$42.53.
Rival  Santos Ltd.  (STO AU) rose 9.7 percent to A$14. Santos had
its stock rating raised to “buy” from “neutral” by analysts
led by  Gordon Ramsay  at UBS AG.  
 ASX Ltd.  (ASX AU): Australia’s corporate regulator has
increased its scrutiny on the marketing of so-called contracts
for difference and wants better disclosure of risks to help
limit investor losses, the Australian Financial Review reported,
citing the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. The
operator of Australia’s biggest stock exchange gained 0.7
percent to A$29.03.  
 Discovery Metals Ltd.  (DML AU): The Australian mining
company that counts billionaire investor  George Soros  among its
stockholders will try to raise $150 million through loans and
share sales this year to develop a copper mine in Botswana, the
Independent on Sunday said. Discovery Metals gained 4 percent to
64.5 Australian cents.  
 Kangaroo Resources Ltd.  (KRL AU): The mineral exploration
and production company may sell its GPK thermal coal mine in
Indonesia, the Australian Financial Review reported in its
Street Talk column. The stock was unchanged at 12.5 Australian
cents.  
 Orica Ltd.  (ORI AU): The world’s largest industrial
explosives maker may consider acquisitions after it completes a
split with its DuluxGroup paint and garden products business,
Chief Executive Officer  Graeme Liebelt  told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television yesterday. Orica fell 0.1 percent
to A$25.68.  
 Tabcorp Holdings Ltd.  (TAH AU): The soccer World Cup
increased sales at Australia’s biggest gambling company by 20
percent to A$120 million, compared with the previous event in
Germany four years ago, the Australian Financial Review reported,
citing the company. The stock climbed 0.2 percent to A$6.47.  
 Telstra Corp. Ltd.  (TLS AU): Optus, a unit of Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd., wants to pay lower fees for access to
Telstra’s copper home phone network in Australia after the
government struck a deal with the nation’s largest telephone
company, the Australian Financial Review reported, citing Optus.
Telstra was unchanged at A$3.23.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        