-- Australian Dollar Declines as China's Imports of Iron Ore, Copper Decrease
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-07-12T06:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/australian-dollar-near-three-week-high-after-china-exports-rise-to-record.html

          
          
             The Australian dollar retreated from
its highest level in nearly three weeks amid speculation recent
gains may have been too rapid as concerns linger that the global
economic recovery may falter.  
 New Zealand’s currency fell before reports likely to show
U.S. retail sales declined in June for a second month and
inflation receded. Both currencies were last week’s biggest
gainers among their 16 most-traded peers against the greenback.
The so-called Aussie also weakened as speculators slashed  bets 
on the currency’s gain to the least in more than a year.  
 “There’s still too much concern over slowing global growth
to want to get too bullish on the Aussie,” said  Greg Gibbs , a
foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Sydney. “The Aussie has had a good week last week and the
market wants to see some further good news to keep driving it.”  
 Australia’s currency slid 0.5 percent to 87.33 U.S. cents
as of 4:13 p.m. in Sydney from 87.76 cents in New York last
week. It earlier touched 87.93 cents, the strongest since June
22, after advancing 4.3 percent last week. The currency bought
77.64 yen from 77.76 yen on July 9.  
 New Zealand’s dollar slipped to 70.79 U.S. cents from 71.08
cents on July 9, when it reached 71.17 cents, the most since
June 28. It bought 62.93 yen from 62.97 yen.  
 U.S. retail sales fell 0.3 percent in June, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before figures due July 14. The consumer price index declined
0.1 percent, according to a separate survey before the July 16
report.  
 Aussie Futures  
 Futures traders decreased their bets that the Australian
dollar will gain against the greenback, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
 difference  in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other
large speculators on an advance in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
7,246 on July 6, compared with net longs of 12,854 a week
earlier. That was the lowest level since traders turned positive
on the Australian dollar in March 2009.  
 Declines in Australia’s currency were limited as analysts
estimated that Alcoa Inc., the first company in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average to report second-quarter earnings, will post
a profit for the first time in three quarters. Profits for
Standard & Poor’s 500 companies are projected to have increased
34 percent in the April-June period, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Decent U.S. data and better company earnings than priced-
in should buoy U.S. risk appetite which will rub off on equities
and commodities and therefore rates and currencies,” said  Imre Speizer , a market strategist in Wellington with Westpac Banking
Corp. The Aussie will rise toward 88.60 cents this week while
New Zealand’s currency will advance to 71.60 cents, he said.  
 N.Z. Budget, Inflation  
 New Zealand’s dollar was supported after the nation’s
budget cash deficit was narrower than the government forecast.
Finance Minister  Bill English  said in a statement that the South
Pacific nation is committed to fiscal discipline and he wants
the budget to return to surplus before 2016.  
 Declines in the so-called kiwi were also limited before its
statistics bureau is forecast to say consumer prices gained for
a second straight quarter.  Prices  rose 0.4 percent in the three
months to June, according to the median estimate of economists
before the July 16 report. Annual inflation was 1.9 percent,
they predicted.  
 Interest Rates  
 Central Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  is required to keep
annual inflation between 1 percent and 3 percent on average over
the medium term.  
 Swaps traders are betting the Reserve Bank of New Zealand
will increase its official cash rate by 1.30 percentage points
over the next year, according to a Credit Suisse AG  index .  
 Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and
2.75 percent in New Zealand, compared with 0.1 percent in  Japan 
and as low as zero in the U.S., attracting investors to the
South Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such
trades is that currency market moves will erase profits.  
 Australian bond futures fell, with the 10-year contract for
September delivery at 94.875 on the Sydney Futures Exchange from
94.885 last week. The implied yield on the futures stood at
5.125 percent. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates, rose to 4.25 percent from 4.22
percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        