-- Australian, Japanese Futures Climb as Commodities Gain; Alumina Advances
-- Satoshi Kawano
-- 2010-07-11T23:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/australian-japanese-futures-climb-as-commodities-gain-alumina-advances.html

          
          
             Australian and Japanese  stock 
futures rose after a rally in commodity prices and amid
expectations for U.S. earnings reports.  
 American depositary receipts of Alumina Ltd. jumped 1.3
percent from the closing price in Sydney after venture partner
Alcoa Inc. gained 2.1 percent in New York on July 9. Alcoa, the
largest U.S. aluminum producer, will post second-quarter results
today. ADRs of  Honda Motor Co. , a Japanese carmaker that
receives more than 80 percent of its revenue overseas, rose 1.5
percent from the Tokyo close on July 9. Those of Sony Corp.,
which gets about 21 percent of its sales overseas, gained 1.1
percent. Also, Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s Democratic
Party of Japan lost its upper house majority in elections Sunday.  
 “Signs of recovery in the commodities market show that
investors’ concerns about a global double dip is easing,” said
 Tomochika Kitaoka , a senior strategist at Mizuho Securities Co.
in Tokyo.  
 Yen-denominated futures  on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
expiring in September closed at 9,615 in Chicago on July 9,
compared with 9,575 in Singapore. They were bid in the pre-
market at 9,600 as of 8:05 a.m. in Osaka. The Nikkei 225 closed
at 9,585.32 on July 9.  
 Kan’s loss of control of parliament’s upper house
undermines his administration’s ability to pass legislation to
cut the world’s largest public debt and creates the possibility
of a third leadership change in a year.  
 Futures on Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  rose 0.2 percent.
New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  climbed 0.2 percent today in
Wellington.  
 S&P Futures  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 4 percent last week, the
biggest weekly gain this year as U.S. retail sales rose and the
International Monetary Fund increased its forecast for global
economic growth. Companies in the gauge trade at 14.1 times
 estimated earnings , compared with 13.2 times for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index in the U.S.  
 Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  fell 0.1 percent today. The
gauge rose 0.7 percent in New York on July 9 amid a rally in
metal prices and optimism about earnings reports.  
 The  London Metal Exchange Index , a measure of six metals,
jumped 1.6 percent on July 9. Copper futures for September
delivery climbed 1.3 percent in New York, on increasing
speculation that global growth will be resilient and metals
demand will gain. Gold futures for August delivery advanced 1.2
percent, the biggest increase since June 17. Crude oil futures
rose 0.9 percent.  
 Alcoa may announce earnings of 11 cents a share, according
to the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey. That
compares with a loss of 26 cents in the second quarter a year
ago.  
 Tokyo Electron  
 Tokyo Electron Ltd. , the world’s second-largest maker of
semiconductor equipment, may be active today, after saying
orders for chip- and flat-panel-manufacturing gear almost
tripled last quarter, helped by demand from flash-memory makers
in Taiwan.  
 China Airlines Ltd. , Taiwan’s largest air carrier, may be
active today after saying it had liquid debt totaling NT$25.5
billion ($796 million) as of the end of June.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Satoshi Kawano  in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        