-- Avid's Brain Dye Can Spot Alzheimer's, Study Says
-- Kanoko Matsuyama
-- 2010-07-12T02:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/avid-radiopharmaceuticals-s-brain-dye-detects-alzheimer-s-in-new-research.html

          
          
             Alzheimer’s disease can be detected
with a brain scan using radioactive dye developed by  Avid
Radiopharmaceuticals Inc. , a study found, marking a step forward
to the first tool to pinpoint the disease in 100 years.  
 Patients with a life expectancy of less than six months
underwent brain scans using  Avid’s  dye. After death, their
brains were autopsied. There was a strong correlation between
plaques found in brain tissues and the places imaging suggested
the protein would be, according to an abstract released at the
 International Conference on Alzheimer’s Disease  in Honolulu.  
 If the dye, called florbetapir, wins regulatory approval,
doctors will have the first tool for a quick, definitive
diagnosis since German physician Alois Alzheimer described the
disease in 1906. Doctors today rely on memory tests, family
histories and interviews with relatives. Autopsies are still
needed to check for the presence of the brain protein called
 beta amyloid , a hallmark of the illness.  
 The past trials “made us think that it’s working well,”
 Daniel Skovronsky , Avid’s chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview before the study’s release. “Our hope is
that once this agent is approved, perhaps it could be used to
rule out Alzheimer’s.”  
 The study, part of the final stage of testing required to
get U.S. approval, involved 220 people who were near the end of
lives with illnesses such as cancer and heart disease.
Philadelphia-based Avid aims to submit its results to the Food
and Drug Administration this year, Skovronsky said.  
 Racing GE, Bayer  
 The company,  General Electric Co.  and  Bayer AG  are racing
to develop chemical dyes to identify beta amyloid, creating
diagnostics with a potential market of $3 billion a year,
according to  Harry Glorikian  of consulting firm  Scientia
Advisors .  
 Avid is the first to finish the final stage of human
testing. All three of the imaging tests are designed to cause
beta amyloid clumps to light up when patients’ brains are
scanned using PET, or positron emission tomography. The scanners
read radiation from the dyes, which bind to beta amyloid.  
 A brain scan using florbetapir identified people at
increased risk of Alzheimer’s disease, according to a separate
 study  led by Reisa A. Sperling, a researcher at Harvard Medical
School. Among patients who had mild cognitive impairment, 22
percent with amyloid plaques developed Alzheimer’s disease
within a year, compared with 3 percent of those without the
plaques, according to the findings presented at the conference.  
 As many as 5.1 million Americans may have Alzheimer’s
disease, the most common form of dementia in older people,
according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        