-- Baidu Emerges as Winner After Google Ends Conflict With China
-- Brian Womack
-- 2010-07-11T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/baidu-emerges-as-winner-after-google-ends-conflict-with-china-s-government.html

          
          
             After winning permission from
China’s government to continue to operate in the country,  Google
Inc.  must now fight for relevance as  Baidu Inc.  extends its
dominance in the world’s largest Internet market.  
 Uncertainty over whether Google would be forced out of
China, prompted some advertisers to switch to Beijing-based
Baidu. Google had its license renewed last week after it stopped
automatically sending Chinese users offshore.  
 “There is a big gap between Baidu and Google, and that gap
has got bigger,” said Vincent Kobler, managing director of
Emporio Leo Burnett, a Shanghai advertising agency that
specializes in online marketing. “It’s going to be tough for
Google, even with the renewed license, to gain market share.”  
 Google’s market share in China fell to 30.9 percent in the
first quarter from 35.6 percent three months earlier, according
to data from research firm Analysys International.  Baidu ’s share
increased to a record 64 percent from 58.4 percent, according to
Analysys.  
 “It won’t be easy for Google because its service has been
diminished in the past few months,” said  Jake Li , an Internet
analyst at Guotai Junan Securities in Shenzhen. “Baidu is
likely to stay ahead.”  
 Extra Step  
 Last month, to remain in compliance with China’s laws while
also ending self-censorship, Google added an extra step for
Chinese Web surfers, directing them to a landing page that in
turn pointed them to the Hong Kong site. It then submitted a
revised application to renew its license.  
 Adding another complication for Chinese Web surfers will
cost Google,  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.,
said in a July 9 research note. Every extra step added to the
search process will lose users, he said.  
 Google always seeks to improve the quality of its service
to users, spokeswoman  Marsha Wang  said. She declined to comment
on the company’s sales and market share in China.  
 “Our position has always been the uncertainties
surrounding Google have had no more than a marginal impact on
our revenue, and I don’t see any reason why this changes
things,” said Kaiser Kuo, Baidu’s spokesman in Beijing.  
 Google rose 2.4 percent to $467.49 on the  Nasdaq Stock
Market  on July 9. The shares declined 25 percent this year,
compared to a 73 percent gain by Baidu’s stock.  
 Largest Market  
 China had 384 million Internet users at the end of 2009,
the government estimates, more than the U.S. population. That
may grow to 840 million by 2013, according to EMarketer Inc.  
 Google began redirecting users in China to an unfiltered
site in Hong Kong in March, a practice the country’s government
disapproved of. The U.S. company, based in Mountain View,
California, said in January it would no longer comply with
Chinese government requirements that websites self-censor
content.  
 Baidu  in April said it benefited from Google’s “semi-
exit.” The Chinese company expects “healthy” growth in
customers and average spending by clients will continue, Baidu
CEO  Robin Li  said in a conference call in April.  
 “Baidu is willing to do whatever the government wants, to
play by the rules. That’s to Baidu’s benefit,” said Jason
Helfstein, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.
“Google is trying to do things that they think are the right
thing to do, even if it has negative business implications,
naturally that has been shareholders’ gripe.”  
 Lost Partnerships  
 Ending self-censorship also cost  Google  partnerships with
mobile phone service provider  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.  and
Web portal Tom Online Inc.  
 Google had said in January it would stop censoring content
and threatened to exit the Chinese market after cyber attacks
originating from the nation targeted its systems.  
 The “highly sophisticated” attacks were aimed at
obtaining proprietary information and personal data belonging
to human-rights activists who use the company’s Gmail e-mail
service, it said.  
 Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch estimated in April
Google would generate $160 million in sales this year from
China. That’s less than  1 percent  of the company’s projected
revenue this year, according to the average of 29 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. It earned sales of about $335
million from China in 2009, according to Analysys.  
 Since it began redirecting Chinese users, Google’s search
results have been screened by China’s so-called Great Firewall,
a government monitoring system that blocks overseas services
such as Facebook Inc. and Google’s YouTube.  
 The firewall limits Chinese Web users’ access to
information on topics ranging from Tibet’s independence
movement to the 1989 crackdown on protesters in Tiananmen
Square.  
 “Until Google develops a deeper understanding with
regulators in China, Google’s China business remains at risk,”
said  Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at Caris & Co. in San
Francisco.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Baidu Inc. office in Shanghai  
                       
                         
                           Qilai Shen/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A pedestrian walks past the Baidu Inc. office in Shanghai. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A pedestrian walks past the Baidu Inc. office in Shanghai. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Jeff Jarvis, author of "What Would Google Do?," discusses the end of the six-month standoff between China's government and Google Inc. over Google's Web-service license in China. 
     Jarvis speaks via telephone with Bloomberg Television's Scarlet Fu.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
