-- Bank Swaps Show Reduced Stress Test Fears as Bonds Rally: Credit Markets
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-07-12T15:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/bank-swaps-show-reduced-stress-test-fears-as-bonds-rally-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Bond investors are gaining
confidence in the ability of banks to ride out Europe’s
government deficit crisis, driving the difference in the cost of
insuring financial and corporate debt from default to near the
lowest in three months.  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index  of credit-default swaps
on 25 banks and insurers from  Banco Santander SA  in Spain to
Germany’s Deutsche Bank AG fell more than 25 basis points last
week, the most in two months. The bank swaps index pared that
decline today, though it’s still just 19 basis points wider than
the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of corporates, down from a record
55 basis points on June 4.  
 Investors are buying bank bonds at the fastest pace in six
months on speculation the examination by the Committee of
European Banking Supervisors will confirm lenders can withstand
a shrinking economy and a drop in the value of government bonds.
Europe’s budget deficit crisis triggered concern banks would
suffer crippling losses from sovereign debt holdings.  
 “There was a fear the financial system would collapse,”
said  Philip Gisdakis , a Munich-based strategist at UniCredit
SpA. “There’s a high probability the stress tests will show the
core of the financial system is healthy and sound in the sense
it can weather the storm.”  
 A weekly survey of money managers by Jersey City, New
Jersey-based Ried Thunberg ICAP, a unit of ICAP Plc, the world’s
largest inter-dealer broker, found that 95 percent of the 22
respondents controlling $1.39 trillion said most major European
banks will receive favorable test ratings.  
 Bond Sales Rebound  
 Financial firms in Europe sold the most bonds last week
since the start of January, raising 11.4 billion euros ($14.4
billion), or 93 percent more than this year’s weekly average of
5.9 billion euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds rather than government debt fell
to the lowest in almost seven weeks. Spreads shrank 5 basis
points last week to an average of 192 basis points, or 1.92
percentage points, the narrowest since May 24, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
The gap reached a low this year of 142 on April 21 before
expanding to as much as 201 on June 11. Yields fell to 3.97
percent, from 3.98 percent on July 2.  
 ‘Positive Outlook’  
 “Overall sentiment feels like it has shifted, giving
investors a more positive outlook,” Payden & Rygel, a Los
Angeles-based investment firm overseeing $50 billion led by  Joan Payden , said in a report to clients.  
 Oracle Corp. plans a benchmark sale of 10- and 30-year
debt in its first bond offering in more than a year, according
to a person familiar with the transaction. The Redwood City,
California-based software maker sold $4.5 billion of debt in
June 2009 to help finance its acquisition of Sun Microsystems
Inc., which was completed in January, Bloomberg data show.  
 Toyota Motor Corp., through its finance arm, plans to sell
$1.25 billion of bonds backed by debt on vehicles, a person
familiar with the offering said. SLM Corp., the student lender
known as Sallie Mae, plans to sell $869 million of bonds tied to
private loans, or those that don’t carry a government guarantee,
another person said.  
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s biggest retailer, started
marketing five-year Samurai bonds, according to a person
familiar with the matter. The retailer told investors it may
price fixed-rate bonds to yield between 30 basis points and 40
basis points more than the yen swap rate.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. rose for the first time this month. Credit-default swaps on
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 1.36 basis points to a
mid-price of 111.8 basis points as of 11:26 a.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd. In London, the Markit iTraxx
Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings
increased 1.14 to 116.6, Markit prices show.  
 The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 Bermuda Offering  
 In emerging markets, the extra yield investors demand to
own bonds instead of government debt rose 4 basis points to 315
basis points, according to index data from JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The spread has ranged from as low as 229 on April 15 to as high
as 359 on May 25.  
 Bermuda plan to sell as much as $500 million of 10-year
bonds, according to people with knowledge of the offering. HSBC
Holdings Plc is managing the issue, the people said.  
 Rising confidence in Europe’s banks can also be seen in
their so-called Tier 1 bonds, which are used by lenders to
bolster capital ratios. The securities have gained 1.52 percent
this month, compared with a loss of 0.07 percent for a global
index of the debt maintained by Bank of America Merrill Lynch
and 0.02 percent for corporate bonds in the region.  
 “There is a tendency from the outside to be excessively
pessimistic,” European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said at a news conference in Frankfurt after the ECB
left its benchmark interest rate at a record low of 1 percent on
July 8. “The figures don’t confirm this pessimism.”  
 ‘Encouraging’ Signs  
 Europe’s economy is showing “encouraging” signs, Trichet
said, with exports and industrial production rising and
employment stabilizing.  
 The stress tests will cover 65 percent of the area’s
banking industry and include 14 German lenders, six from Greece
and four from the U.K., the European bank committee said July 7.
The results will be disclosed July 23.  
 Yields on financial company bonds in euros have climbed 60
basis points relative to benchmark rates since April 30 to 250
basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU
Financial Corporate Index. The spread on euro corporate
securities widened 47 basis points in the same period.  
 Financial credit-default swaps approached an all-time high
in Europe last month amid concern that Greece, Portugal and
Spain may be forced to restructure debt to ease budget deficits
that are more than three times the European Union limit.  
 Greek attempts to cut the budget deficit are “positive,”
indicating that 2010 targets may be met and reducing the medium-
term risk of default or an imminent debt restructuring,
Citigroup Inc. analysts wrote in a July 9 report. European
government measures to curb government spending and boost taxes
are also taking the pressure off banks.  
 “There is renewed faith in the banks,”  Suki Mann , a
credit strategist at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in a
note to investors. “If the results of the impending earnings
season prove strong, financials will continue to outperform
corporates soundly.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jean-Claude Trichet of the European Central Bank  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         “There is a tendency from the outside to be excessively pessimistic” about Europe, European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet said. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “There is a tendency from the outside to be excessively pessimistic” about Europe, European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet said. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Jeroen van den Broek, a credit strategist at ING Groep NV, discusses the outlook for stress tests being conducted on European banks to see whether they could withstand losses if the region's debt crisis worsens.
     Van de Broek talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
