-- German Stocks Rise as Merck and Volkswagen Lead Gain; Kontron Shares Fall
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-12T15:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/baywa-nanostart-fraport-volkswagen-may-be-active-german-equity-preview.html

          
          
             German stocks rose, extending the
first weekly increase in about two months, as gains in  Merck
KGaA  and  Volkswagen AG  offset losses in  Kontron AG .  
 Merck rose 1.9 percent after the drugmaker won approval to
sell its multiple sclerosis treatment in Russia. Preferred
shares of Volkswagen increased 1.5 percent as the carmaker
forecast higher earnings in 2010 along with sales.  Centrosolar
Group AG  climbed 6.8 percent after almost doubling its 2010
earnings forecast on international sales and efforts to reduce
costs. Kontron sank 18 percent after the company said it’s
setting aside 34 million euros ($42.7 million) in risk
provisions for outstanding receivables.  
 The DAX rose 11.95, or 0.2 percent, to 6,077.19 in
Frankfurt. The measure rallied 4 percent last week amid optimism
that European stress tests will ease concern about the region’s
financial system. Still, the gauge is down 4 percent from its
April 26 high on concern that the sovereign-debt crisis in
Europe and slowing growth in China and the U.S. will hurt German
companies. The broader HDAX Index also gained 0.2 percent today.  
 Merck rose 1.9 percent to 61.01 euros. The drugmaker won
approval to sell its Cladribine pill to treat multiple sclerosis
in Russia, where it expects to start selling the medicine early
next year.  
 “This is the first approval ever of an oral therapy for
the treatment of multiple sclerosis,” Kepler Capital Markets
wrote in a note. “Although the commercial potential of the
Russian market has its limits, the registration is an important
milestone for bringing this novel multiple sclerosis therapy to
the market.”  
 Volkswagen preferred shares gained 1.5 percent to 73.22
euros. The carmaker will boost earnings in 2010 along with
sales, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  was cited as
saying by the Sueddeutsche Zeitung.  
 Fraport, Siemens  
      Fraport AG  rose 1.3 percent to 37.24 euros as the Frankfurt
airport operator said passenger numbers increased 12 percent in
June. Separately, BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research initiated
coverage of the stock with a “buy” recommendation.  
 Siemens AG  increased 1.3 percent to 74.15 euros. Europe’s
biggest engineering company is negotiating to sell its 35
percent stake in Voith Hydro Holding GmbH & Co., a hydro-
electric power plant maker, to Voith AG, Sueddeutsche Zeitung
reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  
 Centrosolar, Kontron  
 Centrosolar  surged 6.8 percent to 5.18 euros. Profit may
reach 24 million euros to 28 million euros this year, compared
with a previous forecast of 14 million euros to 16 million
euros, the Munich-based company said in a statement today.
Centrosolar expects to achieve or slightly exceed its goal for
370 million euros in sales this year.  
  Kontron  plummeted 18 percent to 6.17 euros. The maker of
miniature computers for slot machines and drone aircraft said
it’s setting aside 34 million euros in risk provisions for
outstanding receivables due from customers in Malaysia, Taiwan
and Hong Kong.  
 Equinet AG and WestLB AG downgraded the stock to “hold”
and “neutral,” respectively. Both brokerages previously rated
Kontron a “buy.” Separately, BHF-Bank lowered its
recommendation to “reduce” from “strong buy” and Independent
Research GmbH downgraded Kontron to “sell” from “hold.”  
 Aixtron AG , the maker of equipment used to produce LED
screens, surged 4.4 percent to 23.46 euros. “We believe that
the second-quarter earnings season will be positive for the
European software and semiconductor sectors,” UniCredit
Research said in a note. With regard to Aixtron, the brokerage
expects “guidance for a stable order trend and consensus upside
revisions due to the favorable dollar.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Nick Nelson, a strategist at UBS AG, talks about the outlook for the second-quarter earnings season in Europe.
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
