-- BP Makes Progress in Changing Oil-Capture System at Leaking Well in Gulf
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/bp-makes-progress-in-changing-oil-capture-system-at-leaking-well-in-gulf.html

          
          
             BP Plc  is making progress on
removing a device capturing oil from its leaking Macondo well in
the Gulf of Mexico, as it prepares to install a more efficient
collection system.  
 BP plans to have a new seal on the gushing well sometime
within the next week and the company said it will take two to
three weeks to connect all the surface vessels to the wellhead.
BP’s target is to collect as much as 80,000 barrels a day, more
than the estimated amount of the leak,  Kent Wells , vice
president of exploration and production, said in a conference
call from Houston yesterday.  
 “We’re on plan,” Wells told reporters during the
conference call after the robots under water started removing
the old installation. “All the crews and everything are set up
on rotating shifts so that we can continue operations 24 hours a
day.”  
 BP has  captured  about 734,000 barrels of the estimated 2.9
million to 5 million barrels that have leaked since April, the
company said. When the Exxon Valdez tanker ran aground in Prince
William Sound in 1989, 262,000 barrels of oil were spilled into
the waters off Alaska, according to statistics from the  American
Petroleum Institute .  
 The process of switching caps temporarily allows the oil to
flow without restriction from the seafloor. BP is using surface
ships to capture as much as possible, said company spokesman
Mark Proegler.  
 Underwater Robots  
 The system to be installed includes the Helix Producer I
surface vessel and the so-called capping stack containment
mechanisms. The Helix, capable of collecting 25,000 barrels of
oil a day, may start capturing oil today, Wells said.  
 Underwater robots began yesterday unscrewing six bolts
holding the stump of pipe left after a robot sheared away most
of it June 3. New equipment will be attached, Wells said.  
 London-based BP won National Incident Commander Admiral
 Thad Allen ’s permission to accelerate operations nearly a mile
(1,609 meters) under the ocean surface July 9. The company is
moving quickly to take advantage of weather forecasts calling
for seven days of calm winds and seas.  
 The new links will also make it faster to disconnect the
ships in case of a tropical storm, Wells said. Rough waters
after the passage of Hurricane Alex southwest of the well site
delayed connection of the Helix and forced more than 500 oil-
skimming vessels into port.  
 Hurricane Season  
 Academic, commercial and government forecasters predict the
Atlantic hurricane season that began last month will be one of
the most active on record.  
 If the new cap doesn’t work, BP will replace it with an
improved version of the cap used until yesterday, Wells said
during the call.  
 To reach the collection target, BP will reconnect the
Discoverer Enterprise drillship it has been using and add the
vessels Toisa Pisces and Clear Leader, Wells said. About 551
miles (887 kilometers) of Gulf Coast shoreline, from Louisiana
to Florida, is oiled, and 34 percent of federal waters in the
Gulf remain closed, the Oil Spill Response Information Center in
New Orleans said in an  e-mailed statement .  
 The sealed cap improves BP’s chances of successfully
plugging the well from the bottom by injecting mud, then cement
through a relief well. With a tight seal at the top, engineers
will get accurate flow and pressure readings, clues to the
condition of the well bore, Allen said.  
 Well Kill Plans  
 “If they have that cap in place, they have an added
advantage in trying to kill the well,” said  Don Van Nieuwenhuise , director of professional geosciences at the
University of Houston. “It should ensure the kill will work”
and assure that cement injections have a chance to set, he said.  
 BP plans to intersect the damaged well at the end of this
month, and kill it next month, Wells said. The first relief well
has 60 feet to 70 feet more to drill to the final casing point,
he said.  
 As much as 60,000 barrels a day may be flowing from the
well, a committee of government and academic scientists
estimated.  
 BP, the government and outside petroleum experts have
speculated that the blowout occurred because the well bottom was
improperly sealed, allowing oil and gas to gush to the surface
around the drill pipe itself. Pressure readings may indicate
whether that occurred and suggest how BP should move to kill the
well at the bottom, Allen said.  
 Investor Sentiment  
 Investors and analysts expect the new containment system to
be successful,  Brian Youngberg , an analyst at Edward Jones in
St. Louis who rates BP shares “sell” and owns none, said July
9 in a telephone interview. “If they have problems with it, I
think the market would view this negatively.”  
 Rear Admiral Paul Zukunft will replace Rear Admiral James
Watson as the federal on-scene coordinator for the oil spill
response team on July 12, Allen said in an e-mailed statement.
Zukunft will be the third person to take charge since the April
20 rig explosion. The first weeks of response were overseen by
Rear Admiral  Mary Landry , from whom Watson took over on June 1.  
 BP rose  31 cents to $34.05 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading on July 9 and has dropped 43 percent since the
incident began April 20.  
 The disaster began when the BP well drilled by the
Deepwater Horizon rig blew out, killing 11 workers. The rig sank
April 22 after burning for more than a day, leaving the mile of
pipe that had connected it to the well crumpled on the seafloor.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        