-- BP Discusses Selling Assets to Apache to Pay for Spill
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-12T14:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/bp-said-to-be-in-talks-to-sell-assets-to-apache-to-raise-funds-for-spill.html

          
          
             BP Plc  is in talks to sell assets to
Apache Corp. as it seeks funds to pay for the biggest U.S. oil
spill in history, two people familiar with the discussions said.  
 Apache , the largest independent U.S. oil company by market
value, is negotiating for assets that include a share in BP’s
Alaska business, for a price of less than $12 billion, according
to one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
discussions aren’t public.  
 “Apache is a very smart acquirer and that’s been part of
their growth over many, many years,”  Philip Dodge , an analyst
at Tuohy Brothers in New York, said yesterday. Apache, based in
Houston, has bought BP assets before and is “a company that is
very strong financially and liquid.”  
 BP scrapped its  dividend  and said last month it will sell
some of its assets to raise $10 billion for cleanup costs, fines
and legal damages from the Gulf spill. The company has spent
more than $3 billion on the spill and agreed to establish a $20
billion fund for damage claims.  
 Robert Dye , a spokesman for Apache, and Max McGahan, a BP
spokesman, declined to comment. The talks between  BP  and Apache
were first reported yesterday by the London-based Sunday Times
newspaper, which said the assets may be worth $12 billion.  
 The Sunday Times also said that Exxon Mobil Corp., based in
Irving, Texas, has been told by the U.S. government it can look
at a potential bid for BP. London-based BP’s shares rose as much
as 9.7 percent and traded at 396.6 pence as of 3:15 p.m.  
 The company today said that the cost of response to the
spill to dates is about $3.5 billion.  
 Rising Costs  
 Investors have sold BP’s stock on concerns the company may
struggle to cover the rising costs and fend off political
ramifications prompted by the April 20 drilling rig explosion.
The stock slumped 44 percent as of July 9.  
 The cost of insuring BP’s debt fell for a ninth day, with
credit-default swaps on the company declining 35.5 basis points
to 335.5 today, the lowest since June 8, according to CMA
DataVision. Those for Exxon and Apache both rose.  
 Apache paid $1.3 billion in 2003 for BP assets in the Gulf
of Mexico and North Sea. The company last month completed the
$1.05 billion purchase of Gulf assets from Devon Energy Corp.  
 BP owns a 26 percent share in Prudhoe Bay and neighboring
fields in Alaska with Exxon Mobil Corp., ConocoPhillips and
Chevron Corp. The Prudhoe Bay field, the largest field in the
U.S., came online in 1977 and can produce about 400,000 barrels
of oil a day.  
 Declining Output  
 The field is averaging 234,772 barrels a day this month,
according to  Alaska state tax records . Its production is
declining 10 percent a year, according to BP’s  website . Because
the field is more than 30 years old and output has been
declining, Dodge said he would be surprised if Apache buys it.  
 “When Apache acquires, they always acquire something that
has some growth possibilities to it,” he said.  
 Prudhoe Bay and other Alaskan fields were BP’s largest
source of crude in the Western Hemisphere in 2009 after the Gulf
of Mexico, according to a public filing. Alaskan fields provided
one in every 14 barrels of oil BP pumped worldwide last year. BP
operates or owns stakes in 20 other fields on Alaska’s North
Slope, as well as four pipelines.  
 BP also is considering selling oil and natural gas fields
in Colombia, Venezuela and Vietnam, a person with knowledge of
the matter said earlier this month. The company may dispose of
its 60 percent holding in Pan American Energy LLC, Argentina’s
second-largest oil producer, the person said, declining to be
identified because the information is confidential.  
 Tighter Cap  
 BP is working to install a new, tighter-fitting cap over
its leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico that it intends to
capture all the escaping crude. The old cap was removed to make
way for the new, allowing more oil to escape until the new cap
is secured sometime this week, Senior Vice President  Kent Wells 
said yesterday.  
 Doug Suttles , the company’s chief operating officer for
exploration and production, said today that BP may stop the flow
of crude from the well if it passes a 48-hour pressure test.  
 The well began leaking after the explosion aboard the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which resulted in the deaths of
11 workers.  
 BP’s $1 billion of  4.75 percent notes  due in 2019, which
plunged almost 25 cents to as low as 80.5 cents on the dollar in
the two months following the Gulf of Mexico explosion, rose 0.5
cent to 90.75 cents to yield 6.143 percent on July 9, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stanley Reed  in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     G. Steven Farris is CEO of Apache, which has bought BP assets in the past. Photographer: F. Carter Smith/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Fadel Gheit, managing director of oil and gas research at Oppenheimer & Co., discusses the outlook for a BP Plc asset sale as it seeks funds to pay for the biggest U.S. oil spill in history. 
     BP said today it has spent $3.5 billion on the spill, including oil and gas containment, cleanup and damage claims. Gheit talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Lizzie O'Leary reports on the status of BP Plc's relief well in the Gulf of Mexico to help stop its oil leak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
