-- Chi-X Europe Says Trading Volumes Almost Doubled to Record Last Quarter
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/chi-x-europe-says-trading-volumes-almost-doubled-to-record-last-quarter.html

          
          
             Chi-X Europe Ltd.  reported second-
quarter volumes rose to a record as the region’s biggest
alternative trading system continued to take business from
traditional exchanges.  
 The number of trades on its markets almost doubled to 72.1
million from 37.1 million in the second quarter of 2009, London-
based Chi-X said in a statement. The value of trades more than
doubled to 482.3 billion euros ($611 million) from 209.5 billion
euros in the comparable period a year ago. Dark trading, were
prices aren’t publicly displayed, accounted for three percent of
all activity, the company said.  
 “We have been consistently profitable for the last six
months,”  Alasdair Haynes , chief executive officer of Chi-X
Europe, said in the statement. “While we expect the summer to
be quieter, as usual in the European markets, we have a number
of exciting developments in the pipeline.”  
 Chi-X Europe, owned by its users, started in March 2007 and
was the first multilateral trading facility to challenge
traditional European bourses by offering lower fees and faster
trading. It also competes with other MTFs such as Bats Europe
and offers stocks listed by  London Stock Exchange Group Plc ,
 Deutsche Boerse AG  and SIX Swiss Exchange Ltd.  Haynes , who was
named CEO in December, said in February that the company is
generating profit and aims to become “the number one exchange
in Europe.”  
 The MTF plans to expand further into the index business, is
considering offering derivatives and won’t raise prices to drive
growth, Haynes has said. The London-based trading system doesn’t
plan to start charging for its data, he said Feb. 15.  
 The trading platform is partly owned by Instinet LLC, a New
York-based unit of  Nomura Holdings Inc. , and by investment banks
and traders including Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG , Getco
LLC and Bank of America Corp.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        