-- China's Property Prices Rise at Slower Pace After Crackdown on Speculation
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T00:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/china-s-property-prices-rise-at-slower-pace-after-crackdown-on-speculation.html

          
          
             China’s  property prices  rose at
a slower pace for a second month after April’s record gain
as the government cracked down on speculation, damping home
sales in a bid to avert asset bubbles.  
 Prices  in 70 cities rose 11.4 percent in June from a
year earlier, according to a report today in the statistic
bureau’s newspaper, China Information News. That compared
with 12.8 percent in April and 12.4 percent in May.  
 Property prices slid 0.1 percent in June from the
previous month, adding to signs that growth is moderating
in the world’s third-biggest economy. Harvard University
professor  Kenneth Rogoff  said July 6 that a “collapse” in
real estate is beginning, while Barclays Capital forecasts
prices may fall as much as 30 percent in the next 12 months.  
 “Chinese authorities appear very determined in
regulating the property sector and policies are unlikely to
reverse,”  Peng Wensheng , the Hong Kong-based head of China
research for Barclays, said before today’s release. “Price
corrections are inevitable and that’s what the government
would like to see.”  
 The value of property sales rose 25.4 percent in the
first half of the year to 1.98 trillion yuan ($292 billion),
slowing from the 38.4 percent gain in the first five months,
today’s report showed.  
 Poly, China Vanke  
 China Vanke Co. , the nation’s biggest listed developer,
has cut prices and Guangzhou-based developer  Poly Real
Estate Group Co.  reported slower first-half sales growth. A
Shanghai stock  index  tracking 34 real-estate companies has
tumbled about 28 percent this year, the worst performer
among five industry groupings.  
 A slide in  Chinese stocks  this year highlights
investors’ concern that the economy may slow excessively as
the government trims stimulus measures and Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis threatens export demand.  
 The statistics bureau is due to announce second-
quarter gross domestic product on July 15 after the  economy 
expanded at an 11.9 percent annual pace in the first
quarter, the most since 2007. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this
month cut its forecast for full-year growth to 10.1 percent
from 11.4 percent.  
 Cooling Speculation  
 Authorities intensified a crackdown on property
speculation in April. Besides raising minimum mortgage
rates and down-payment ratios for some home purchases, the
government has pledged to boost land supply and the
construction of low-cost public homes. Officials may also
trial a property tax, according to state media.  
 Investment in real-estate development rose 38.1
percent to 1.97 trillion yuan in the first half of this
year, almost the same as the gain in the January-May period,
the newspaper said today. Sales by floor area increased
15.4 percent to 394 million square meters (4.24 billion
square feet), it said. That compares with a 22.5 percent
gain in the first five months.  
 Land Minister  Xu Shaoshi  said property prices will
likely have an “overall” correction in about three months,
the Securities Times reported July 5. In a meeting the
previous day, Xu said authorities will continue to
“actively conduct macro controls” on the property sector
and also investigate land hoarding, according to a
statement on the ministry’s website.  
 Extra Intensity  
 Xu’s comments indicate China will “intensify” the
enforcement of land policies in the second half of the year
rather than reverse them, UBS AG wrote in a July 8 note.  
 In Shanghai, new-home sales fell 57 percent in the
first half, Shanghai Uwin Real Estate Information Services
Co. said July 7. In Beijing, the decline was 44 percent
from a year earlier, property research firm China Index
Academy said July 2.  
 “This time around, Chinese policy makers are not
simply curbing an overheating property sector, they aim for
fundamental changes that will help to prevent more bumpy
corrections in the future,” said Barclay’s Peng.  
 Property investment accounts for about 10 percent of
gross domestic product and construction consumes half of
the nation’s output of steel and 36 percent of the aluminum
that it makes, JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates.  
 Home prices are set to fall as much as 20 percent in a
“healthy” correction,  Michael Klibaner , head of China
research at property broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., said
July 7. The property boom has been driven by cash rather
than debt, meaning there’s little chance of the forced
selling that exacerbated the U.S. housing market collapse,
he said.  
 The property-price data series began in 2005.  
 -- Li Yanping . Editors: Paul Panckhurst,  Russell Ward .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Kenneth Rogoff, Harvard University professor of Economics  
                       
                         
                           Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Harvard University professor Kenneth Rogoff said July 6 that a “collapse” in real estate is beginning, while Barclays Capital forecasts prices may decline as much as 30 percent in the next 12 months. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Harvard University professor Kenneth Rogoff said July 6 that a “collapse” in real estate is beginning, while Barclays Capital forecasts prices may decline as much as 30 percent in the next 12 months. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Shen Jianguang, Greater China chief economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for China's economy and exports.
     China’s overseas sales jumped 43.9 percent in June from a year earlier to $137.4 billion and the trade surplus more than doubled to $20 billion, the highest level in eight months, the government said July 10. Shen, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses China's real estate market and central bank monetary policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
