-- China's Trade Surplus Widens, Adding Pressure on Yuan
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-11T23:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/china-june-trade-surplus-surges-140-to-20-billion-adding-yuan-pressure.html

          
          
             China’s unexpected rebound in
overseas shipments to a record last month may lose pace as the
European crisis, a moderating U.S. recovery and yuan gains curb
demand for goods from the world’s largest exporter.  
 China’s  overseas sales  jumped 43.9 percent in June from a
year earlier to $137.4 billion and the  trade surplus  more than
doubled to $20 billion, the highest level in eight months, the
government said July 10.  
 Customs officials, while hailing a recovery in exports to
pre-financial crisis levels, said Europe’s debt woes and the
“sharp decline” in the value of the euro have started to
affect China’s sales to that region. Diminished overseas demand,
along with cooling domestic investment, increase the odds that
Premier  Wen Jiabao  may unwind some policy tightening and limit
further yuan gains to sustain growth.  
 “Exports may see a sharp deceleration after July as demand
in Europe and the U.S. weakens and a stronger Chinese currency,
higher wages and reduced export tax rebates erode the
competitiveness of Chinese goods,” said  Shen Jianguang , Hong
Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “The
government may have to intensify efforts to boost the domestic
economy as they have limited control over external demand.”  
 Exports to the European Union, China’s biggest market, grew
at a slower pace than overall shipments in June, indicating the
impact of the sovereign-debt crisis and fiscal tightening is
starting to bite,  Huang Guohua , head of the customs bureau’s
statistics analysis, told state television on July 10.  
 Emerging Markets  
 Sales to the EU and U.S., China’s two biggest markets, rose
by about 40 percent in June, customs reported. Exports to Brazil
more than doubled, those to Russia jumped 84 percent and
shipments to India surged 59 percent as China targeted emerging
markets to cushion reduced demand from developed economies.  
 A government report today showed that property prices
slowed for a second straight month in June, underscoring signs
that China’s expansion has passed its peak. Values in 70 cities
rose an average 11.4 percent in June from the previous year, and
fell 0.1 percent from May 2010, according to the statistics
bureau’s newspaper, China Information News.  
 “Emerging markets will be an inadequate substitute for
fading demand from the EU and U.S.,” said  Tom Orlik , Beijing-
based economist at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates. He
estimates Brazil, India and Russia bought about 5 percent of
Chinese exports in 2009.  
 Tax Rebates  
 A bigger-than-forecast drop in consumer borrowing in the
U.S. in May and comments from  Marks & Spencer Group Plc , the
U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, last week that it’s
“cautious” about the outlook for consumer spending in Britain,
add to evidence exports to developed economies may slow.  
 The scrapping of tax rebates on a range of goods including
steel products from July 15 may also hurt overseas sales.  
 “We suspect stronger-than-expected exports might be the
result of the frontloading of commodity-intensive product
exports as a result” of the tax change, Goldman Sachs economist
 Song Yu  wrote in an e-mailed note on July 10. Steel-product
exports more than doubled in the first six months, the customs
bureau said July 10, without giving a year-earlier comparison
for June.  
 Import  growth slowed for a third month in June from a year
earlier, and the volume of iron-ore and copper purchases by
Chinese companies showed their third monthly decline, customs
bureau data showed, indicating the domestic economy is
responding to government curbs on lending and investment in
property and energy-intensive industries.  
 Manufacturing Slows  
 Manufacturing  expansion slowed for a second month in June
as output and export orders weakened, a purchasing managers’
index from the Federation of Logistics & Purchasing showed.  
 Money supply  growth last month moderated for the seventh
straight month and new yuan-denominated  loans  of 603.4 billion
yuan ($89 billion) in June were the smallest in three months,
central bank data showed yesterday. The nation’s record foreign-
exchange reserves grew at the slowest pace in 11 years in the
second quarter to $2.45 trillion, according to the data.  
 Companies including Jiangsu Shagang Group Co. and Nanjing
Iron & Steel Co. have put off iron-ore purchases, choosing to
run down inventories. Steelmakers are likely to cut output this
quarter because of weak demand from auto and appliance makers,
 Xu Lejiang , chairman of Baosteel Group Corp., the country’s
second-biggest mill, said June 8.  
 Forecast Changes  
 In the past two months, economists have cut their estimates
for China’s economic expansion after the government curbed bank
lending and cracked down on speculation in the real-estate
market that helped push housing  prices  to records.  
 Growth may decelerate to 9 percent in the fourth quarter,
from 11.9 percent in the January-March period, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists. The statistics bureau is due to
announce second-quarter gross domestic product data this week.  
 The surge in exports in June and the doubling of the trade
surplus may prompt U.S. lawmakers to intensify pressure on China
to step up the pace of yuan appreciation even as the outlook for
overseas demand cools, economists said.  
 Seasonally adjusted exports in June rose 4.2 percent from
May after gaining more than 10 percent in the previous two
months.  
 “The month-on-month data shows that the rebound momentum
is losing steam,” said Mizuho’s Shen, who previously worked at
the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank.
With export growth possibly dropping to less than 10 percent
later this year, “the government may strictly control the pace
of the yuan’s gain, or even allow some depreciation of the
currency if export data deteriorates too sharply,” he said.  
 Trade Deficit  
 China on June 19 indicated it was ending the yuan’s two-
year peg to the U.S. dollar and has since allowed it to
appreciate 0.8 percent. Still, the U.S. Treasury Department said
July 8 the Chinese currency “remains undervalued.”  
 “China has reported another strong trade surplus, and next
week we are going to see another large U.S. trade deficit. This
contrast will likely add to the international pressure on
Beijing to allow further currency gains to make a bigger
contribution to global growth,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong
Kong-based strategist at Royal Bank of Canada.  
 -- Li Yanping . Editors:  Nerys Avery ,  John McCluskey .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Baosteel Chairman Xu Lejiang said steelmakers are likely to cut output this quarter. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Shen Jianguang, Greater China chief economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for China's economy and exports.
     China’s overseas sales jumped 43.9 percent in June from a year earlier to $137.4 billion and the trade surplus more than doubled to $20 billion, the highest level in eight months, the government said July 10. Shen, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses China's real estate market and central bank monetary policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Shipping containers are stacked at the Yangshan deep water port in Shanghai. Photographer: Kevin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
