-- China's Foreign Reserves Rise at Slowest Pace Since 1999 in Second Quarter
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T03:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/china-june-money-supply-lending-growth-slow-on-government-curbs-on-credit.html

          
          
             China’s  foreign-exchange reserves ,
the world’s largest, rose by 0.29 percent in the second quarter,
the least in 11 years, as expectations for yuan gains diminished
and the European debt crisis saw capital move out of emerging
markets.  
 The nation’s holdings rose by $7.2 billion to $2.454
trillion at the end of June from the end of March, the People’s
Bank of China  said  yesterday. Reserves dropped 2 percent in May,
according to data posted on the central bank’s website, the
first monthly decline since February 2009.  
 China’s announcement that it was scrapping its two-year peg
to the U.S. dollar was made just 12 days before the end of the
quarter. The change in policy could revive bets on the yuan’s
appreciation and complicate the central bank’s efforts to trim
liquidity in the financial system and stem inflation.  
 “The temporary drop in reserves in May was related to the
very low expectations for gains in the yuan’s exchange rate,”
which reduced the country’s attractiveness to capital inflows,
said  Xing Ziqiang , a Beijing-based economist with China
International Capital Corp. “We’re likely to see average
monthly trade  surpluses  of a relatively large $20 billion and
expectations for yuan gains are also stronger,” indicating
reserves will increase over the next few months, he said.  
 Yuan Outlook  
 The yuan, which has risen 0.8 percent in the three weeks
since the central bank’s announcement, may gain 4 percent this
year and 6 percent in 2011, according to  Wang Qing , a Hong Kong-
based economist at Morgan Stanley. DBS Group Holdings Ltd.
predicts the currency will advance a further 1.2 percent this
year as the central bank acts to temper inflation.  
 Yuan forwards were little changed. The twelve-month non-
deliverable forward climbed 0.02 percent to 6.6603 per dollar as
of 10:58 a.m. in Hong Kong. The yuan traded at 6.7716 per dollar,
compared with the July 9 close of 6.7735.  
 Money supply grew in June at the weakest pace since
December 2008 and lending growth slowed for the third month,
reflecting government curbs on credit to some industries, the
central bank said yesterday.  
 M2, the broadest measure of money supply, slowed for
seventh straight month, growing 18.5 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 21 percent in May. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 18.8 percent. New yuan-
denominated loans were 603.4 billion yuan ($89 billion) compared
with 639.4 billion in May. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey was for 600 billion yuan.  
 Appropriate Liquidity  
 A government report today showed that property-price gains
slowed for a second month in June, with values in 70 cities
advancing an average 11.4 percent from a year before. On a
monthly basis, prices fell 0.1 percent, according to the
statistics bureau’s newspaper, China Information News.  
 The People’s Bank of China said July 8 that money and loan
growth in the first half was “reasonable” and liquidity in the
banking system “basically appropriate,” suggesting more
significant policy measures, including raising  interest rates  or
banks’ reserve requirements, are unlikely in the short term.  
 “The central bank is using credit quotas to slow lending
growth and that’s reflected in the money supply,” said  Wang Tao ,
an economist at UBS AG in Beijing. “As long as lending is
slowing according to plan, worries about  inflation  getting out
of control are much less,” making policy tightening less likely,
she said.  
 The slower pace of foreign-exchange reserve accumulation in
the second quarter reflects pessimism among international
investors about the outlook for China’s equity and property
markets, according to  Tom Orlik , Beijing-based analyst for Stone
& McCarthy Research Associates.  
 Capital Flows  
 “We haven’t seen this scale of outflows since the flight
to quality at end of 2008 and early 2009 at the peak of concerns
about the global economic crisis,” Orlik said. He estimates
that even accounting for the higher  trade surplus  and greater
overseas investment by Chinese companies in the second quarter,
capital outflows may have amounted to $51 billion in May and $21
billion in June.  
 China’s  benchmark stock index  has dropped 25 percent this
year, and government policies to crack down on real-estate
speculation led to a slump of as much as 70 percent in housing
transactions in some cities. Prices could fall by as much as 20
percent in a “healthy” correction,  Michael Klibaner , head of
China research at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. said on July 7.  
 China is estimated by some economists to have invested as
much as 70 percent of its reserves in U.S. dollar-denominated
assets, and is the biggest overseas holder of U.S. Treasuries,
with $900 billion at the end of  April .  
 U.S. Debt  
 “Clearly, if there is slower growth in foreign-exchange
reserves in the next few months through a lower trade surplus
and reduced capital inflows, that may give China a smaller
budget to buy U.S. Treasuries,” Orlik said. “But SAFE made
quite extensive comments last week about the benefits of
investing in U.S. government debt,” he said, referring to the
 State Administration of Foreign Exchange , China’s foreign-
exchange regulator.  
 -- Li Yanping ,  Zhang Dingmin . With assistance from  Judy Chen  in
Shanghai. Editors:  Nerys Avery ,  Chris Anstey   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Shen Jianguang, Greater China chief economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for China's economy and exports.
     China’s overseas sales jumped 43.9 percent in June from a year earlier to $137.4 billion and the trade surplus more than doubled to $20 billion, the highest level in eight months, the government said July 10. Shen, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses China's real estate market and central bank monetary policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Ben Simpfendorfer, chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the implications of sovereign debt crisis in Europe on China's exports to the region. 
     China’s unexpected rebound in overseas shipments to a record last month may lose pace as the European crisis, a moderating U.S. recovery and yuan gains curb demand for goods from the world’s largest exporter. Simpfendorfer, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses China's currency policy and property market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
