-- Dubai World Said to Meet Creditor Banks July 22 on Debt Restructuring Plan
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-11T14:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/dubai-world-said-to-meet-creditor-banks-july-22-on-debt-restructuring-plan.html

          
          
             Dubai World, the state-owned company
seeking to renegotiate terms on $23.5 billion of debt, called
for a meeting of creditor banks on July 22 to discuss its
restructuring plan, a person familiar with the matter said.  
 Dubai World and a group of its seven biggest lenders said
on May 20 they agreed to the broad terms of the restructuring
and they will make a presentation on the plan to the remaining
nearly 70 banks on July 22, the person said, declining to be
identified because the process is private.  
 Dubai World, the holding company whose Nakheel PJSC real-
estate unit is building palm-tree shaped islands off the
emirate’s coast, said in May its main creditors agreed to
restructure $14.4 billion of bank loans and $8.9 billion of
government liabilities to resolve a debt crisis that roiled
global markets last year. It said banks would be paid $4.4
billion in five years and another $10 billion over eight years
at below-market interest rates.  
 “The sense the market has, based on the pricing of Dubai’s
publicly traded debt, is that the process is moving on
relatively smoothly and that it will get to fruition before the
end of the summer,” said  Abdul Kadir Hussain , chief executive
officer of Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd. “If it drags on beyond
Ramadan and into the fall then it will be unfortunate.”  
 A spokesman for Dubai World said he had no comment to make.
Reuters reported the meeting earlier today.  
 Credit Crunch  
 Credit-default swaps tied to Dubai government debt narrowed
171 basis points to 480.7 as of July 9 from a year high of 651
on Feb. 15, according to CMA DataVision prices. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The global credit crunch has battered Dubai’s real-estate
market and left the emirate’s companies unable to raise loans to
repay debt. Property prices have fallen more than 50 percent in
the city as banks reduced mortgage lending and speculators fled.  
 In the May 20 proposal, Dubai World offered banks various
combinations of interest rates and principal repayment options
depending on whether they lent in dollars or dirhams. Banks will
be paid 1 percent interest on the loans maturing in five years.
Lenders have three options under the eight-year maturities, with
at least 1 percent interest over the life of the loan and
varying additional rates from 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent at
maturity. Two of these options also have shortfall guarantees.  
 Dubai World’s bank coordination committee, which negotiated
with the company on behalf of the other lenders, represents
about 60 percent of its bank loans, it said in May. The
committee comprises  Emirates NBD PJSC  and Abu Dhabi Commercial
Bank PJSC from the United Arab Emirates and foreign lenders,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  HSBC Holdings Plc , Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, Standard Chartered Plc and  Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd . The proposal requires the approval of banks
representing at least two thirds of Dubai World’s loans to hold.  
 Nakheel, which is seeking to restructure $10.5 billion of
liabilities, is holding a separate meeting with its lenders on
July 14, Khaleej Times reported July 6, citing Chairman  Ali Lootah .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        