-- Egypt Shares Rise on Bourse Head Appointment, Global Recovery Confidence
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-07-11T14:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/dubai-shares-rise-to-monthly-high-on-earnings-global-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             Egypt shares rose to the highest
this month, among the Middle East’s biggest gainers, as concern
about the global economic recovery faded and as a new chairman
was appointed for the country’s bourse. Israeli stocks gained.  
 The  EGX 30 Index  advanced 1.4 percent to 6,108.29, the
highest since June 29 boosted by  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE . Al Mal
newspaper reported the investment bank is considering spending
at least 10 percent of its 1 billion euro ($1.26 billion)
InfraMed fund in public-private partnership infrastructure
projects in Egypt.  Citadel Capital Corp.  increased 2.1 percent
after one of its subsidiaries signed a $130 million contract to
build a cement plant.  
 A higher global growth forecast from the International
Monetary Fund last week and lower-than-estimated U.S. jobless
claims boosted optimism that the economy will avoid slipping
back into recession. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  advanced
5.4 percent in the week.  
 “Global markets were in the green on Friday, helping
improve investor sentiment in the region and especially Egypt,”
said Mostafa Abdel Aziz, relationship manager at Cairo-based
investment bank Beltone Financial. The appointment of a new
chairman of the stock exchange may have helped as “some
decisions of the ex-chairman bothered retail investors. Strong
public opinion had been established against him.”  
 Prime Minister Ahmed Nazif appointed Khaled Seyam to
replace  Maged Shawky  on July 15. Seyam is the deputy chairman of
the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority, the market
regulator. The Egyptian Exchange suspended trading of 26 small
and medium-sized companies in October to determine why shares as
much as tripled without any apparent justification.  
 Oil Gains  
 Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  gained 0.7 percent
after advancing the most in a month yesterday. Earnings from
different industries in the kingdom “are providing some
reassurance for investors and the knock-on effect will be felt
across the region,” said  Julian Bruce , director of equity sales
at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  climbed
0.5 percent.  
 Food Products Co.  jumped 6.3 percent after the Saudi
Arabian company said second-quarter profit increased almost
seven-fold.  Banque Saudi Fransi  rose the most in almost a month
after the Saudi Arabian lender part-owned by Credit Agricole SA
said second-quarter profit rose 9.4 percent as lending grew.  
 Crude oil for August delivery climbed 5.5 percent last week
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, closing at $76.09 a barrel
on July 9. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council
supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  
 Israeli Stocks  
 Israel’s TA-25 Index advanced 1.5 percent to 1,106.70, the
biggest gain since June 20, led by  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. , the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, and
 Israel Chemicals Ltd. , which extracts minerals from the Dead Sea
to make fertilizers.  
 EFG-Hermes climbed 1.5 percent to 30 Egyptian pounds, the
highest since June 28. Citadel rose the most since June 23 to
6.44 pounds.  
 The  DFM General Index  gained 0.4 percent.  Dubai Financial
Market PJSC,  the first Arab stock exchange to sell shares to the
public, advanced 1.4 percent to 1.50 dirhams.  
 Nasdaq Dubai, the stock exchange in the Dubai International
Financial Center business park, said trading of all listed
shares are now being routed through the platform of DFM.
Clearing, settlement and custody functions for Nasdaq Dubai also
migrated to DFM’s systems as part of a consolidation of the two
bourses.  
 Oman’s benchmark stock  index  rose 0.4 percent, Qatar’s
gained 1.2 percent and Bahrain’s increased 0.2 percent. Abu
Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  slipped less than 0.1 percent.
Kuwait’s market was closed for a holiday.  
 Israel’s 10-year Mimshal Shiklit maturing in January 2020
fell 0.30 shekel to 104.66 in Tel Aviv, pushing the yield on the
5 percent notes up four basis points to 4.67 percent. The shekel
was little changed on July 9 at 3.8709 per dollar.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net  or  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Egyptian Exchange Chairman Maged Shawky, pictured, will be replaced on July 15 by Khaled Seyam. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
