-- Technology Stocks Cheapest to S&P 500 as UBS Sees Gains
-- Lu Wang
-- 2010-07-12T21:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/technology-stocks-cheapest-to-s-p-500-as-ubs-foresees-rally-on-record-cash.html

          
          
             Computer and software shares have
slumped to the lowest  valuations  in two decades, a sign to
Barclays Wealth and UBS AG they will rebound as Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index companies start spending their record cash.  
 Technology  companies in the benchmark index for U.S.
equities fell as much as 17 percent this year, pushing prices
down to 15.6 times reported annual income, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  biggest  industry in the index hasn’t
been this cheap since at least 1992, excluding the six months
between Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy and the start
of the bull market in March 2009.  
 Falling valuations and a rebound in spending may lift
shares even if U.S. growth slows, according to UBS. Corporate
cash rose six straight quarters through March, boosting
speculation executives will upgrade computers after reducing
investments for three years. The S&P 500 Information Technology
Index rose 5.6 percent last week, the biggest gain in a year.  
 “The technology sector has been overlooked,” said  Kevin Gardiner , who helps oversee $241 billion as head of global
investment strategy at the wealth management division of
Barclays Plc in London. “One of the sectors that we have been
quite positive on globally has been technology, and we’ve been
gritting our teeth and hanging onto that view.”  
 Intel, Qualcomm  
 Intel Corp. , the biggest maker of semiconductors, is
projected to post the highest growth in net income since at
least 1990, and Qualcomm Inc., the largest phone-chip producer,
will have the fastest increase in six years, according to the
average analyst estimates. Each has at least $11 billion in  cash 
and short-term investments. The technology industry has more
money available than any S&P 500 group, giving management leeway
to invest in new products, buy shares or raise  dividends .  
 Apple Inc. , the Cupertino, California-based maker of iPads
and iPhones, and Intel are among 29 technology firms in the S&P
500 scheduled to release quarterly results in the next two
weeks. New York-based Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, started earnings season today after reporting second-
quarter profit that topped analysts’ projections as higher metal
prices boosted sales.  
 The S&P 500 gauge of computer companies and software
developers may  earn  $26.40 a share this year, or 32 percent of
the overall benchmark’s $81.61 a share, the average analyst
estimates tracked by Bloomberg show.  
 Weekly Rally  
 The S&P 500 rose the most in a year last  week , jumping 5.4
percent to 1,077.96, after higher-than-estimated sales from
retailers and speculation European banks will prove solvent in
government evaluations eased concern about the global economy.  
 The stock index is down  11 percent  since reaching a 19-
month high in April amid speculation Greece, Portugal and Spain
may struggle to close their budget deficits. The gauge rose 0.1
percent to 1,078.75 today. Technology shares posted the biggest
gain among 10 industries, climbing 0.7 percent as analysts
recommended buying SanDisk Corp. and Qualcomm.  
 “It just comes down to this macro viewpoint that we’re
going into a double-dip recession, and the world’s going to go
to hell, and people are going to stop buying iPads and
smartphones and computers,” said  Paul Wick , the Menlo Park,
California-based manager of the $3.3 billion Seligman
Communications & Information Fund, which beat 90 percent of
rivals in the past five years. “That’s kind of a farfetched
conclusion.”  
 Trailing the Market  
 Technology companies trailed the S&P 500 for seven of nine
years through 2008, including a 44 percent plunge that year,
when U.S. stocks posted their worst return in seven decades.  
 They surged 60 percent in 2009 after the first global
recession since World War II ended and investors speculated an
improving economy would spur companies to buy new routers and
database programs. This year, the group has slumped 5.9 percent
versus the S&P 500’s 3.3 percent drop.  
 Valuations for S&P 500 computer producers, software
developers and chip makers are lower than at 96 percent of the
time since 1992, Bloomberg data show. Using analysts’ estimates
for 2010 earnings, the group is even cheaper, at 13.2 times
projections. That’s the lowest multiple compared with the S&P
500 since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2006.  
 Traxis Partners LP’s  Barton Biggs , whose flagship fund
returned three times the industry average last year, said he
sold most of his U.S. technology holdings two weeks ago on signs
the economy is weakening. Biggs, who manages $1.4 billion, was
among the first to predict the stock market rebound from March
9, 2009, and his fund profited by adding stocks in emerging
markets and technology shares during the rally.  
 ‘Very Selective’  
 “You need to be very selective among technology stocks,”
said  Brian Jacobsen , chief portfolio strategist for the mutual
fund division of Wells Fargo Asset Management, which oversees
$465 billion in San Francisco. “My biggest concern is the
overall growth of the U.S. economy and of Europe, since those
tend to be the largest purchasers of technology.”  
 Private employers added fewer jobs than forecast last month
and orders at factories fell 1.4 percent in May, the most since
March 2009, U.S. government reports released July 2 showed.
Economists have cut growth estimates for U.S. gross domestic
product next year to 2.8 percent, from 3.1 percent in May, based
on the median economist estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  
 U.S. firms are increasing  spending  on computers and
software, according to a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. index of
estimated technology purchases that rose to 56 last month. A
reading of more than 50 indicates expansion, while lower than 50
is a contraction. The measure dropped to a low of 25 last year,
compared with 80 in 2005, data from the New York-based
investment bank showed.  
 New Projects  
 Technology  profit  may get a boost if U.S. businesses start
using cash for new projects, said  Bruce Bittles  of Robert W.
Baird & Co. S&P 500 companies have piled up cash for the past
six quarters, the longest stretch in seven years, as they
eliminated jobs and cut dividends during the recession. They
held $836.8 billion on March 31, a 29 percent rise from
September 2008, data from New York-based S&P show.  
 “Tech stocks have some of the strongest  balance sheets  in
the S&P 500,” said Bittles, chief investment strategist at
Milwaukee-based Baird, which oversees more than $85 billion.
“The valuations are inexpensive -- that’s another plus. It’s a
good time to invest in tech.”  
 The companies have an average $2.28 billion in short- and
long-term debt, according to regulatory filings compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s lower than any other industry and compares
with $6.29 billion for the average  S&P 500  member, excluding
banks and financial institutions.  
 Growth Estimates  
 Wall Street firms raised 2010 profit-growth estimates for
technology companies by 17 percentage points since the end of
2009, faster than all S&P 500 industries except financial
institutions.  Income  will rise 42 percent this year, compared
with 34 percent for the S&P 500, more than 8,000 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “We’re in the midst of a pretty strong earnings
recovery,” said  Chip Miller , a New York-based equity strategist
for UBS. “Tech fundamentals thus far have remained strong.
Given how cheap they are, if you take a little bit of a longer-
term perspective, it’s probably a good buying opportunity.”  
 Analysts’ estimates show Intel will more than  double  profit
this year. The Santa Clara, California-based company  trades  at
11 times the average per-share earnings estimate for this year
from analysts, lower than the valuation for the S&P 500, whose
companies will increase profit by 34 percent.  
 Multiple Compression  
 While projections show  Qualcomm’s  net income may rise the
most since 2004, shares of the San Diego-based company have
 slumped  24 percent in 2010. It had a price-earnings multiple of
16.8 at the end of last week, using profit from the past year.
The valuation has been this low during only one other period:
the end of 2008, after Lehman collapsed.  
 Qualcomm was added to the conviction buy list at Goldman
Sachs today. The phone-chip maker will benefit from a growth in
smart phones, including Google’s Android-based phones, 80
percent of which contain Qualcomm chipsets, Goldman Sachs
analyst  Simona Jankowski  wrote in a note to clients.  
 “Among the large-cap names, they’re really in an absolute
sense all cheap,” said  Howard Ward , a fund manager at Gamco
Investors Inc., which oversees about $26 billion in Rye, New
York. “I’m loaded with these large-cap tech names because
they’re too compelling to ignore.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
 Lynn Thomasson  in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
 Lu Wang  in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     John Panin works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for the global economy and financial markets.
     Naeimi, speaking from Sydney, also discusses prospects for second-quarter corporate earnings in the U.S. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Jeremy Zirin, senior equity strategist at UBS Wealth Management, talks about the outlook for U.S. corporate earnings, stocks and the economy, and his equity investment strategy.
     Zirin speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Barton Biggs, managing partner at Traxis Partners LLC, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and investment strategy.
     Biggs said he’s worried the U.S. may enter a recession for the second time in three years and has reduced the risk of his investments as a result. He said the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may decline 10 percent to 15 percent if there’s another recession. Biggs speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
