-- Hedge Funds Bull Oil Bets Fall to 15-Month Low Amid Rally: Energy Markets
-- Asjylyn Loder
-- 2010-07-12T21:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/hedge-funds-bull-oil-bets-fall-to-15-month-low-amid-rally-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Hedge funds slashed bets that oil
would rise last week to the lowest level in more than a year
just before crude began its biggest advance since May.  
 So-called net long positions on the New York Mercantile
Exchange dropped 31 percent in the seven days ended July 6 to
the lowest level since April 2009, according to the weekly
Commitments of Traders report from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. Oil rose 5.5 percent on the Nymex last week,
settling at $76.09 a barrel as of July 9. It slipped 1.5 percent
today to settle at $74.95 a barrel.  
 “There’s a lot of fluctuation in the market,” said  Hamza Khan , an analyst with Schork Group Inc., a consulting company in
Villanova, Pennsylvania. “We’re seeing money managers getting
it wrong more often than they’re getting it right.”  
 Oil rebounded as crude inventories declined amid evidence
the economic recovery is on track. Hedge funds suffered their
worst second quarter in a decade this year, losing 2.79 percent,
according to  Hedge Fund Research’s HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index .  
 Prime brokers such as  Credit Suisse Group AG  and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. that service hedge funds say that managers are
sitting on more of their cash and borrowing less. Credit
Suisse’s hedge-fund clients held 24 percent of their assets in
cash in June, compared with 19 percent three months earlier,
according to the Zurich-based bank’s prime-brokerage unit.  
 Rising Volatility  
 Historic 30-day volatility for the most actively traded oil
contract rose to 40.3 percent last month, the highest level
since September 2009. That compares with 20.3 percent in April.
Historic volatility was 31.4 percent on July 9.  
 “They get whipsawed by these rapid moves,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associations LLC, a consulting
company based in Houston. “The easiest thing is when the market
is trending in one direction. Then they can just sit and let it
ride.”  
 Speculative net-long positions in crude oil futures and
options combined on the Nymex fell to 50,503 for the seven days
ended July 6, the third-largest drop this year, according to the
CFTC data.  
 “It is generally reflective of the incredible indecision
out there,”  George Zivic , co-founder and chief investment
officer of Almanac Capital Management LP, said in an e-mail.
“Statistics are proving that much of the optimism of growth
which drove length in the markets was premature, and people are
just stepping back and reassessing.”  
 Turned Positive  
 Oil dropped 5.2 percent in the five trading days through
July 6, including a 3 percent decline on June 29, the most in
three weeks, after the New York-based Conference Board reported
that China’s economy grew at the slowest pace in five years in
April and  confidence  among U.S. consumers fell. It plunged again
after a July 2 Labor Department report showed that employment
slipped in June for the first time this year and the Commerce
Department said  factory orders  decreased more than forecast.  
 The economic news turned positive last week, pushing oil
higher. The global economy will grow 4.6 percent in 2010, the
biggest expansion since 2007, the International Monetary Fund
said on July 7 in revisions to its World Economic Outlook.  
 Oil may rise this week as U.S. supplies dropped to a two-
month low, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Twenty of 38 analysts
and traders, or 53 percent, forecast crude will climb through
July 16. Ten respondents, or 26 percent, predicted futures will
be little changed and eight saw a decrease.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        