-- EU Ministers Pressured to Give More Stress Test Data
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-07-12T11:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/eu-under-pressure-to-spell-out-stress-tests-as-ministers-meet-in-brussels.html

          
          
             European finance ministers are under
pressure to disclose more about the stress tests being conducted
on banks to see whether they could withstand losses if the
region’s debt crisis worsens.  
 Regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks to
determine if they can survive potential losses on sovereign-bond
holdings. Ministers at a meeting today in Brussels will debate
how much of the detail and results to disclose as investors
await their publication by the end of July.  
 “The market is asking for details and for something else:
if a bank has difficulties where will it get the funds to
recapitalize?” Daniel Gros, director of the Centre for European
Policy Studies, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
today. “Stress tests without details don’t make sense.”  
 Regulators are counting on the tests to reassure investors
about the strength of financial institutions from  Germany ’s
WestLB AG and  Bayerische Landesbank  to Spanish savings banks as
the debt crisis pummels the bonds of Greece,  Spain  and  Portugal .
Officials have yet to spell out how they would deal with a bank
that fails the tests and whether any additional capital will be
provided by national governments or the European Union.  
   Credit Suisse Group AG  analysts said July 8 the “real
test” will be the readiness of governments to respond. The
“important point being tested is the ability and willingness of
the official sector to provide capital to firms which fail,”
analysts led by  Daniel Davies  in  London  said in a note.  
 ‘Catalyst’  
 The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
rose 9.4 percent last week, its biggest weekly gain in a year.
It slipped 0.4 percent as of 1:00 p.m. today.  
 The meeting of finance ministers from the 16 euro
countries is scheduled to begin at 5 p.m. and Luxembourg’s Jean- Claude Juncker, who heads the group, will hold a press
conference after the talks. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said before the meeting that the tests will be an
“important step” toward easing investors’ concerns about the
strength of banks.  
 Ministers will also discuss proposals to revamp banking
supervision, tougher sanctions on countries breaching deficit
limits and early monitoring of national budgets. The meetings
continue tomorrow when the ministers will be joined by their
colleagues from the other EU nations.  
 ‘Fundamental’  
 Banks globally could lose as much as $900 billion in a
worst-case scenario where Greece, Ireland,  Italy , Portugal and
Spain all have to restructure their debt, Nomura Holdings Inc.
estimates. Moody’s Investors Service said June 11 that EU banks
can absorb losses on government and private debt in  Greece ,
Portugal, Spain and Ireland without having to raise funds.  
 Stress tests on Portuguese banks showed they have “good”
solvency ratios, confirming the solidity of the banking system,
Portugal’s  Finance Ministry  said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 One concern is that the tests aren’t rigorous enough and
won’t assume large enough potential losses, said  James Nixon ,
co-chief European economist at  Societe Generale  in London.
Regulators have told lenders the assessments may assume a loss
of about 17 percent on Greek government debt, 3 percent on
Spanish bonds and none on German debt, said two people briefed
on the matter who declined to be identified.  
 “The haircut for Greece looks a little shallow, and the
particular concern is that if there is a sovereign default in
Europe, it will be significantly bigger,” Nixon said.  
 ‘Moderately Hopeful’  
 The banks being tested account for 65 percent of Europe’s
banking industry. They include  Deutsche Bank AG  of Germany,  France ’s  BNP Paribas  SA and ING Bank of the Netherlands,
according to the  Committee of European Banking Supervisors ,
which is organizing the tests. The results are due to be
published July 23.  
 Marco Annunziata, chief economist at Unicredit Group in
London, said he’s “moderately hopeful” the tests will meet
investors’ needs, though they may be more effective if managed
at a national rather than European level.  
 “Within Europe, coordination usually reduces everything to
the lowest common denominator,” he said.  
 ‘Financial Backstops’  
 While the tests may help investors determine the capital
shortfalls at European banks, the next step for European leaders
is to determine how to build up banks’ buffers.  
 Rehn said “financial backstops” must be in place when the
results are published “in case there are pockets of
vulnerability.” The backstops would start with national funds
and then involve a “second line” that would include the
European Financial Stability Facility. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said he favors “flexibility” on
the fund, which was announced in May as part of an EU plan to
aid debt-stricken nations.  
 “There are many national funds available that weren’t used
after the big crash of 2008,” Gros said. “Of course the better
answer would be to say there’s this huge pot of money, the
European Financial Stability Facility, we can recapitalize any
bank in  Europe  with that.”  
 That fund will be operational “without any doubt” before
the end of the month, Juncker told reporters in Brussels. He
also predicted that Slovakia, which has held out putting its
signature on the EFSF accord, would do so by mid-July. Juncker
said he had meetings scheduled later today with Slovakia’s
finance minister and tomorrow with the prime minister.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn speaks during a news conference in Luxembourg. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn speaks during a news conference in Luxembourg. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Daniel Gros, director of the Centre for European Policy Studies, talks about the stress tests being carried out on 91 European banks to determine if they can survive potential losses on sovereign-bond holdings.
     Gross speaks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Fabian Zuleeg, a senior policy analyst at the European Policy Centre, talks about the outlook for the banks that fail European stress tests.
     Regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks to determine if they can survive potential losses on sovereign-bond holdings. Zuleeg speaks in Brussels with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- John Lipsky, first deputy managing editor at the International Monetary Fund, talks about stress tests for European banks.
     Lipsky, speaking with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses central bank monetary policies and outlook for financial regulation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- John Wraith, U.K. fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, talks about the European bank stress tests and the prospects for the European Central Bank increasing its bond purchases.
     Wraith speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi talks about money-market rates and the outlook for the euro-zone economy.
     Market borrowing costs are rising after banks tapped the ECB for less funds than expected before paying back a record 442 billion-euro ($559 billion) ECB loan on July 1, reducing excess liquidity in the system.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
