-- Euro Gains Damp Break-Up Talk on Germany's Strength
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-12T13:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/euro-strength-damps-break-up-talk-as-german-jobs-make-trichet-see-recovery.html

          
          
             Just a month ago, BNP Paribas SA,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG said the euro was
heading toward parity with the dollar as Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis threatened to tear the European Union apart.  
 Investors who bought the 16-nation currency when it reached
a four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7 would have realized a
return of 6.4 percent by now after the euro strengthened to
$1.2641 on July 9 in New York.  
 “The negative sentiment was extreme,” said  Mansoor Mohi- uddin,  the Singapore-based head of foreign-exchange strategy at
UBS, the world’s second-largest currency trader. “While we
still see a lot of weakness in some euro zone bond markets, the
outright pressure of the dissolution of the currency union has
disappeared.”  
 Germany is providing the engine for changing perceptions
after the euro, which depreciated 14 percent against the dollar
in the first five months of the year, helped drive up exports
11.4 percent to 80.8 billion euros ($102 billion) in the same
period.  
 Executives from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , Volkswagen
AG’s Audi unit and Siemens AG credit the currency’s decline from
its 16-month high of $1.5144 in November for boosting
competitiveness and making revenue earned overseas worth more
when they bring it home.  
 Boosting Siemens  
 “Of course the strong dollar does help us,”  Ralf Guntermann , chief financial officer of the  Siemens  unit that
makes energy equipment from steam turbines to power plants, told
analysts at the company’s capital markets day on June 29 in
Nuremberg, Germany. The subsidiary is the second largest for the
Munich-based company, which generated 85 percent of its first
quarter sales outside Germany.  
 BMW in Munich,  Daimler AG  in Stuttgart and Audi in
Ingolstadt say they are adding staff and reducing summer breaks
to keep up with demand that exceeded plans. Sales at BMW,
world’s biggest luxury-auto maker, rose 11 percent in May, the
month when the euro’s 7.4 percent decline against the dollar was
the most since tumbling 8.3 percent in January 2009.  
 Rising sales mean unemployment in Europe’s largest economy
fell for a 12th month in June, driving the jobless rate down to
7.7 percent, compared with 9.5 percent in the U.S.  
 Industrial Production  
 German industrial production increased 2.6 percent in May,
more than twice the pace economists had estimated, according to
figures the Economy Ministry in Berlin released on July 8. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.9 percent
gain. The measure of factory output climbed 12.4 percent from a
year earlier when adjusted for the number of work days.  
 The strengthening economy gave Chancellor  Angela Merkel  the
flexibility to lead a four-year package of spending cuts and
revenue-raising measures worth 81.6 billion euros. While Merkel
is under pressure from U.S. President  Barack Obama  to focus on
economic growth, she said the cuts, equivalent to about 2.7
percent of gross domestic product last year, aren’t enough to
threaten the recovery.  
 The euro has lost 9 percent this year, the biggest decline
among its developed-world counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar is up 5.2 percent, and
the yen has advanced 11 percent.  
 The euro was at $1.2568 at 9:51 a.m. in New York from
$1.2641 in New York on July 9, when it touched $1.2722, the
highest level since May 12.  
 Currency Hedges  
 The dollar’s strength also offers manufacturers the chance
to lock in currency hedges that will protect export revenue for
years to come, according to BWM and Audi executives.  
 “A euro that’s not overvalued helps our export business,”
BMW Chief Financial Officer  Friedrich Eichiner  said in an
interview last week. “We’re using the present situation to set
up hedging positions for 2011 and 2012.”  
 Audi, a unit of Europe’s largest automaker, saw U.S. sales
increase 14 percent last month, led by its compact A3 model and
A5 two-door coupe.  
 “We’re benefitting from the strengthening dollar and are
taking advantage of the favorable situation to expand our
currency hedging in the U.S.,”  Axel Strotbek , chief financial
officer, said in an interview last week.  
 Euro Forecasts  
 Strategists continue to forecast a weaker euro on concern
that Europe’s fiscal crisis may expand beyond debt-laden Greece
and Spain to Germany and France. Forecasts for the euro were
slashed 18 percent this year against the dollar, the most of any
major currency, based on the median of as many as 43 estimates.
They expect the euro will trade at $1.19 by year-end.  
 Hans-Guenter Redeker , head of global currency strategy in
London at BNP Paribas, was one of the first to predict euro
parity with the dollar as Greece’s debt woes pushed up bond
yields. France’s largest bank said May 6 the European Central
Bank would loosen monetary policy to avoid deflation, driving
the euro down to $1 by March of 2011. Three days later, the ECB
said it would buy government debt to arrest the crisis.  
 “We are firmly committed to our view,” Redeker said in a
phone interview on July 8. “Inflation is going to stay low for
a long period of time, so is the interest rate,” damping demand
for the euro, he said. A fair value for the euro is $1.14 and
the EU would have “much more” trouble retaining membership if
it stays stronger than that, Redeker said.  
 ‘Darker Scenarios’  
 The euro would drop to $1.10 by year-end under a best-case
scenario as the EU’s efforts, including the 750-billion-euro
bailout package designed to keep borrowing costs from rising and
contain the region’s budget deficits, only postpone the crisis,
 Alan Ruskin , then head of foreign-exchange strategy at RBS
Securities, wrote in a June 10 note to clients.  
 “Other darker scenarios, like contagion stemming from a de
facto Greek default, will make sub-parity levels inevitable,”
Ruskin said. He will join Deutsche Bank AG in August as global
head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy in New York.  
 “The underlying fundamentals for the euro remain,
unfortunately, negative for the euro,” said Mohi-uddin of UBS.
“Those fundamental issues remain the sustainability of debt in
countries like Greece. The imbalance in the region persists. The
tighter fiscal policy will lead to weaker growth, which means
the ECB will have to keep its policy looser for longer. This
will push the euro lower against the dollar in the second half
of this year.”  
 Greek Deficit  
 Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said last
week that the country may beat a target to reduce the budget gap
to 8.1 percent of gross domestic product from 13.6 percent as
tax increases and spending cuts kick in and the economy
contracts less than forecast.  
 Meeting those targets is key to Greece receiving 110
billion euros of emergency loans from euro-area leaders and the
International Monetary Fund to stave off default.  
 Besides Germany, the euro’s depreciation has helped the
rest of the euro countries, too.  
 Italian industrial output rose 1 percent in May from the
previous month, the statistics office Istat said last week.
Spain’s National Statistics Institute said July 2 that
industrial production rose for a third month in May, while
jobless claims declined. Ireland’s Central Statistics Office
said June 30 that the economy expanded for the first time in
more than two years in the first quarter.  
 Excessively Pessimistic  
 “There is a tendency from the outside to be excessively
pessimistic” about Europe, European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said at a June 8 press conference in
Frankfurt after the ECB left its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 1 percent. “The figures don’t confirm this
pessimism.”  
 Futures traders decreased bets that the euro will decline
against the dollar to the least since Jan. 12, figures from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission in Washington show.  
 The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
large speculators on a decline compared with those on a gain,
so-called net short amount, was 38,909 on July 6, compared with
73,670 a week earlier and a record 113,890 on May 14.  
 “The market has been too pessimistic on the sovereign risk
issue in the euro area,” said  Bilal Hafeez , head of currency
strategy in London at Deutsche Bank, the world’s biggest
foreign-exchange trader.  
 “One thing you have to bear in mind is that despite the
debt problem in Greece and other peripheral countries, the
overall fiscal deficit in the euro region is relatively small,”
said Hafeez, who predicts the euro will appreciate to as high as
$1.35 in six months. “Europe is going to be benefitting from a
weak euro.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'A euro that’s not overvalued helps our export business,' BMW Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Sebastien Galy, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA, discusses the outlook for the euro and the prospects for stabilization of European credit markets.
     Galy speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Shaun Osborne, chief currency strategist at TD Securities Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the outlook for the euro.
     Osborne also discusses the U.S. economy and Europe's sovereign debt crisis. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
