-- Google's Success on New China License May Prove Short-Lived
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-07-11T11:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/google-wins-renewal-of-its-china-internet-operating-license-xinhua-says.html

          
          
             China’s government confirmed that it
renewed  Google Inc. ’s Internet license, after the U.S. company’s
local venture pledged to allow its Web content to be supervised
by regulators, the official Xinhua news agency said.  
 Beijing Guxiang Information Technology Co., operator of
Google’s China website, has undertaken to comply with Chinese
law and provide no law-breaking content, Xinhua reported, citing
an unidentified official at the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology.  
 Getting the go-ahead gives Google, which disclosed China’s
decision to renew its license last week, a chance to win search
share lost to market leader  Baidu Inc.  and woo advertisers put
off by the company’s half-year dispute with the government. Some
Google operations were in jeopardy as it balked at censorship
rules that require companies to filter Web content.  
 Google was surprised by how quickly China renewed the
company’s Internet-services license, Chief Executive Officer
 Eric Schmidt  said in a July 9 interview. There were no formal
negotiations between Google and Chinese officials over the
decision, a person familiar with the matter said.  
 China renewed the license through 2012, and officials will
revisit the decision annually. China’s government can still use
its authority to yank the license if it deems Google’s
compliance wanting, said  Sandeep Aggarwal , an  analyst  at Caris &
Co. in San Francisco.  
 ‘At Risk’  
 “Google remains at risk in China,” Aggarwal said.
“Chinese regulators gave them a back door.”  
 Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
went public with its dispute in January, saying it was no longer
willing to comply with China’s filtering regulations.  
 “We look forward to continuing to provide Web search and
local products to our users in China,” the company said on its
July 9  blog . Spokeswoman  Jessica Powell  declined to say whether
China had imposed any conditions on renewing the permit.  
 Google, based in Mountain View, California, won approval
after changing the way it handled search requests. After closing
its Chinese search engine in March, it had been automatically
redirecting users to its unfiltered site in Hong Kong. To allay
officials’ concerns, Google added an extra hurdle for Chinese
Web surfers, directing them to a landing page that in turn
pointed them to the Hong Kong site.  
 Complicating Search  
 That change comes at a price, said  Gene Munster , an analyst
at Piper Jaffray Cos.  
 “The landing page strategy for Google.cn adds one more
complication to Google’s user experience in China,” Munster
said in a July 9 research note. “Every step added to the search
process will ultimately cause Google to lose some users.”  
 China also made concessions. Letting Google keep operating
may help the government show it’s open to outside competition,
said  Scott Kessler , head of technology equity research at
Standard & Poor’s, who rates Google “strong buy.”  
 “There were definitely risks if Google were to be
unceremoniously dismissed from a country lock, stock and
barrel,” said Kessler, who’s based in New York. “Then, you’d
have Baidu as the sole, dominant player there with the
likelihood of continued gains in market share.”  
 Google’s  Schmidt , who was in Sun Valley, Idaho, for a
 conference  with media executives, said in an interview he
learned of the renewal decision early on July 9.  
 “This is the outcome we were hoping for, we just didn’t
expect a decision this soon,” Schmidt said. “Literally, the
good news came overnight.”  
 Candlelight Vigils  
 China’s decision may also constitute a nod to the Chinese
people who voiced support for the company, partly through
lighting candles outside Google offices, said  Heath Terry , who
rates Google “outperform” at FBR Capital Markets in New York.  
 “It signifies the importance of Google to China -- from
the candlelight vigils outside of the headquarters to the sheer
usage numbers of Google in China,” he said. “Google is
important to the Chinese people and I think the government heard
that.”  
 Google ’s decision to end self-censorship has cost the
company partnerships with  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.  and Tom
Online Inc., and lifted sales at  Baidu .  
 “Google doesn’t really want to leave China, because it’s a
very big market and there is a lot of potential for them,”
 Bruno Lippens , a fund manager at Pictet Asset Management SA in
Geneva, said before the renewal. “It goes much broader than
just business issues. It’s about cultural differences and
fundamental beliefs like freedom of speech and privacy.”  
 ‘Sophisticated’ Attacks  
 Google rose $10.93, or 2.4 percent, to $467.49 on the
 Nasdaq Stock Market  on July 9. The shares have declined 25
percent this year.  
 Google resubmitted a license renewal application last week.
The company had said in January it would stop censoring content
and threatened to exit the Chinese market after cyber attacks
originating from the nation targeted its systems.  
 The “highly sophisticated” attacks were aimed at
obtaining proprietary information and personal data belonging to
human-rights activists who use the company’s Gmail e-mail
service, it said.  
 Since it began redirecting Chinese users, Google’s search
results have been screened by China’s so-called Great Firewall,
a government monitoring system that blocks overseas services
such as Facebook Inc. and Google’s YouTube.  
 The firewall limits Chinese Web users’ access to
information on topics ranging from Tibet’s independence movement
to the 1989 crackdown on protesters in Tiananmen Square.  
 Sliding Share  
 Google’s market share in China fell to 30.9 percent in the
first quarter from 35.6 percent three months prior, according to
data from research firm Analysys International.  Baidu ’s share
increased to a record 64 percent from 58.4 percent, according to
Analysys. Baidu fell $1.23, or 1.7 percent, to $71.20.  
 Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch estimated in April
Google would generate $160 million in sales this year from China.
That’s less than  1 percent  of the company’s projected total
revenue this year, according to the average of 29 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. It earned sales of about $335
million from China in 2009, according to Analysys.  
 China had 384 million Internet users at the end of 2009, the
government estimates. That’s more than the total U.S. population,
and according to EMarketer Inc., it may grow to 840 million by
2013.  
 Baidu  in April said it benefited from Google’s “semi-
exit.” The Chinese company expects “healthy” growth in
customers and average spending by clients will continue, Baidu
CEO  Robin Li  said in a conference call in April.  
 Baidu Ads  
 Google’s advertisers in China may have cut their spending
by as much as 30 percent on average, and shifted their business
mostly to Baidu, Credit Suisse Group AG analyst  Wallace Cheung 
wrote in an April report. This has let Baidu charge higher
prices, according to Cheung.  
 The license renewal comes after the U.S. said China took a
“significant step” last month when it ended the yuan’s peg to
the dollar and allowed markets to drive the currency higher.
It’s not yet clear whether China’s policy shift will correct the
yuan’s undervaluation, the U.S. Treasury Department said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Jeff Jarvis, author of "What Would Google Do?," discusses the end of the six-month standoff between China's government and Google Inc. over Google's Web-service license in China. 
     Jarvis speaks via telephone with Bloomberg Television's Scarlet Fu.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
