-- Greek Woes Make Italy Yields Irresistible to Baring as Pimco Shuns Europe
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-12T16:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/greek-woes-make-italy-yields-irresistible-to-barings-as-pimco-shuns-europe.html

          
          
             Record bond yields in Europe are
proving too good to miss for  Michiel de Bruin  at F&C Asset
Management as predictions of imminent sovereign defaults
subside.  
 “We are still buying across the market,” said de Bruin,
who oversees $32 billion of European government debt at F&C in
Amsterdam. “In our central scenario, we expect that the
nervousness around European sovereign bonds will dissipate.”  
 Investments in so-called peripheral nations are paying off
as bonds of  Portugal  rallied 7.2 percent,  Ireland  gained 4.8
percent and  Italy  2.2 percent since May 7, just before the
European Union announced its 750 billion-euro ($943 billion)
bailout fund for the region’s debt-laden governments. Even
 Greece’s  securities climbed 13.4 percent, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  
 While Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the
world’s biggest fixed-income  fund , says the rescue only delays
governments from confronting their budget woes, a growing number
of money managers are snapping up European debt with historic
relative yields to benchmark German bunds. F&C, London’s Baring
Asset Management and UBI Pramerica SGR SpA in Milan are betting
that accelerated budget cuts will reduce deficits as Europe’s
economy improves.  
 Asian Demand  
 Yields on Portugal’s 10-year bonds tumbled 74 basis points,
or 0.74 percentage point, compared with bunds from a euro-era
record in May through the end of last week. Italy’s  yield
premium  slid 39 basis points since widening to 178 on June 8,
the most in 13 years.  
 While  Spain’s  debt was little changed since May, according
to the EFFAS indexes, international investors bought 66 percent
of the 6 billion euros of 10-year bonds the nation sold on July
6, the Treasury said. Investors in Asia purchased 13.3 percent
even after Moody’s Investors Service said a week earlier it may
cut the country’s top Aaa credit rating.  
 There is a “diminishing” need for the European Central
Bank to continue buying the debt as part of a program tied to
the regional rescue fund, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
at a July 8 press conference in Frankfurt after policy makers
left the benchmark  interest rate  at a record low 1 percent.  
 Pimco, the Newport Beach, California-based firm that runs
the $234 billion  Total Return Fund , isn’t convinced a three-
year, 110 billion-euro Greek aid accord, which preceded the EU’s
May 10 plan, will prevent a default from roiling the region.  
 ‘Unsolved Problem’  
 “This package delays addressing that problem by three
years,” said  Andrew Bosomworth , the Munich-based head of
portfolio management at Pimco. “There’s an unsolved problem of
solvency. So long as that uncertainty is out there, we don’t
think it makes much sense to be overly exposed in other
countries because there’s contagion risk.”  
 Bulls say the Greek and EU packages provide investors with
enough confidence to prevent yields from soaring as governments
cut spending amid signs of economic improvement.  
 Italian manufacturing rose 1 percent in May from April, and
Spain’s climbed for a third month, government reports showed in
the past two weeks. Ireland’s Central Statistics Office said
June 30 that the economy expanded for the first time in more
than two years in the first quarter.  
 “There is a tendency from the outside to be excessively
pessimistic,” Trichet said at the press conference. “The
figures don’t confirm this pessimism.”  
 The euro has strengthened 5.9 percent since falling to a
four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7. The currency traded at
$1.2574 as of 5:03 p.m. in London.  
 Costs Decline  
 Portugal’s borrowing costs fell when it sold 762 million
euros of six-month bills on July 7, five days after the
government said it aims to meet EU limits for a budget deficit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, a year earlier
than the previous plan and down from 9.3 percent last year. The
securities maturing in January 2011, were issued at an average
rate of 1.947 percent, down from 2.955 percent at a May 5
auction, data from the debt management agency showed.  
 Investors such as UBI’s  Emilio Franco , who helps oversee
about $46 billion, say the negative sentiment that drove
Portuguese yields to 349 basis points more than bunds, the most
since the euro’s debut, and above the average of 51 basis points
over the past five years, was unwarranted. The spread was 275
basis points on July 9.  
 Berlusconi’s Budget  
 Franco, chief investment officer at UBI, correctly
predicted in December that the German 10-year  bund yield  would
fall to a record 2.5 percent by the end of June from about 3.2
percent at the time. Now he plans to buy at Spain’s bond
auctions.  
 Investors demanded an extra 206 basis points to hold
Spanish 10-year debt rather than German securities at the end of
last week, down from a peak of 221 basis points on June 16.  
 Two-year Italian notes yield 106 basis points more than
bunds of similar maturity, down from 139 on May 25, when Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  won cabinet approval for about 25
billion euros of budget cuts to shrink the deficit to 2.7
percent of  GDP  in 2012, from 5.3 percent last year. The yield on
the 2.5 percent security due July 2012 fell to 1.86 percent from
2.13 percent as bond prices rose.  
 “I’ve been buying some Italy on the basis that the
underlying debt dynamics appear to be somewhat better” than for
other euro nations, said  Toby Nangle , who helps oversee about
$43 billion as head of asset allocation at Baring.  
 Spread Narrows  
 Ireland’s bonds are attracting Fideuram Asset Management in
Dublin, part of Banca Fideuram SpA, which oversees 70 billion
euros in assets. “We still have Irish bonds in our portfolio
and we have also been buying some of them,” said  Simone Pecoretti , the firm’s head of fixed income. “We don’t see an
impending risk in the very short term.”  
 The spread between 10-year Irish bonds and bunds was 262
basis points last week, from 306 basis points on May 7, the
widest in the euro era. The yield on the 4.5 percent security
due April 2020 was 5.31 percent on July 9, from 5.93 percent.  
 Europe’s debt crisis was triggered after Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou’s  socialist Pasok party won elections
in October and said the deficit was more than 12 percent of GDP,
twice the previous government’s estimate. That sparked a surge
in bond yields as Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s cut the nation’s
ratings to below investment grade.  
 The Greek economy may contract 4 percent this year, the
median of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed.
Unemployment topped 12 percent in February, the most in at least
six years.  
 Greek Demand  
 Stress tests on 91 of Europe’s biggest banks assume losses
of 17 percent on Greek bonds, said two people briefed on the
talks who declined to be identified because the details are
private.  
 Greece, which will sell 1.25 billion euros of six-month
bills tomorrow, is seeing increased demand for its debt. The
yield on the 4.6 percent bond due September 2040 fell to 9.37
percent last week from 10.25 percent June 28 as the price rose
to 52.45. The September 2037 security was at 52.39. Both traded
at less than 50 percent of face value as recently as June 28.  
 The spread between 10-year Greek bonds and bunds was 764
basis points last week. It reached 965 basis points on May 7.  
 “We added to a small exposure in the long end when prices
on the 2037 and 2040 bonds went below 50,” said  James Moylan ,
managing director, head of credit trading at Conduit Capital
Markets, a London-based fixed-income brokerage. “At those
levels the trade is beginning to look better.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Europe’s debt crisis was triggered after Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou’s socialist Pasok party won elections in October and said the deficit was more than 12 percent of GDP, twice the previous government’s estimate. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Bosomworth, head of portfolio management at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Munich, talks about bond investments and the outlook for sovereign debt in Europe.
     Bosomworth speaks in Frankfurt with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
