-- Greece May Pay 5% Rate in First Bills Since Bailout as Banks Seen Buying
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-12T08:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/greece-may-pay-5-rate-in-first-bill-sale-since-110-billion-euro-bailout.html

          
          
             Greece may pay a rate of about 5
percent when it sells bills this week in the nation’s first debt
offering since accepting a European Union-led bailout in May,
according to fixed-income strategists and investors.  
 The Public Debt Management Agency in Athens said July 9 it
will sell 1.25 billion euros ($1.6 billion) of 26-week bills
tomorrow. About 4.5 billion euros of short-term securities come
due from July 10 to July 23 and the rollover isn’t fully funded
by the 110 billion-euro lifeline received in May to avoid
default, according to an International Monetary Fund document.  
 Greece may sell the debt to local banks at a rate close to
5 percent, the level the EU charged in its portion of the rescue
package, which was aimed at stanching the sovereign-debt crisis
that roiled markets this year, according to  Padhraic Garvey , a
fixed-income strategist at ING Groep NV. A 26-week bill maturing
in January was bid at 5.7 percent at the end of last week,
according to prices at Barclays Plc.  
 “There’s likely to be some moral suasion at work to
encourage domestic players to get involved,” said Garvey, who
is based in Amsterdam. “My guess is that the funding cost will
come closer to that of the rescue package at 5 percent than to
the current market rate, which is partly inflated by lack of
liquidity.”  
 Composite prices on Bloomberg showed the January bills with
a 7.31 percent rate. Differences may stem from infrequent
trading of the securities, strategists said.  
 Improving Outlook  
 The outlook for Europe’s economy has improved as reports
this month showed German exports and Italian industrial output
gained. Greece Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said
last week the country may beat a target to reduce the budget
deficit to 8.1 percent of gross domestic product from 13.6
percent as tax increases and spending cuts kick in and the
economy contracts less than forecast.  
 Since falling to a four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7, the
euro has strengthened 6.4 percent to $1.2641 on July 9.  
 Yields still show elevated concerns about a default. Ten-
year Greek  bonds  yield 764 basis points, or 7.64 percentage
points, more than  benchmark  German debt. While that’s down from
the record 973-point spread on May 7, it’s three times the
average of 256 basis points since the September 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 “What I want to see is that people are confident enough to
actually buy these securities because they want to, and not
because they are told to” by central bankers, said  Frances Hudson , head of global thematic strategy at Standard Life
Investment in Edinburgh, which oversees $175 billion.  
 April Sale  
 Hudson said she has a “light” position in euro-
denominated assets, holding a smaller percentage than in the
benchmark indexes used to measure her fund’s performance.  
 Greece last sold bills in April, issuing 52-week debt at a
rate of 4.85 percent, up from 2.22 percent at the previous
auction in January. The 26-week bills coming due were sold in
January at a rate of 1.38 percent, when Papaconstantinou said
Greece wouldn’t need a bailout.  
 Instead, rising borrowing costs for Greece, Spain,  Portugal 
and Italy forced the EU and IMF to assemble a 750 billion-euro
financial backstop on May 10 to defend the euro region and
restore confidence in its currency.  
 Spain sold 4.18 billion euros of 12-month bills at a yield
of 2.303 percent on June 15, compared with 1.59 percent at an
auction a month earlier, Bank of Spain data showed.  
 ‘Shock-and-Awe’  
 “Since the shock-and-awe package was announced, there’s
very little evidence that markets are completely confident that
the default risk in the next two to three years has been
removed,” said  Robin Marshall , the director of fixed income at
Smith & Williamson Investment Management in London, which
manages $20 billion in assets.  
 Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in London, said he’d
consider the bill sale a success if Greece managed to roll over
the securities at a yield approaching the 5 percent rate the EU
is charging in its portion of the bailout.  
 “I don’t think they’ll have to sell at a silly yield,”
Chatwell said. “This is a primarily a domestic affair, and they
might be able to do it at the same rate, or slightly higher,
than the package. Because the sentiment was so negative, there’s
a good chance the market will get a positive surprise.”  
 Greece has a bond maturing in March, when 8.6 billion euros
of three-year notes come due, according to the debt agency. The
 yield  on the securities has slid 591 basis points since May 10,
when the EU aid package was unveiled, to 9.30 percent on July 9.  
 Greek officials “want to send the message that they are
still able to access the capital market,” said  Christoph Rieger , co-head of interest-rate strategy at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “I have no reason to believe it will go badly. The
volume is small and domestic banks will buy. They wouldn’t have
decided to enter the market if they didn’t do their homework and
due diligence.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Greece Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said last week the country may beat a target to reduce the budget deficit to 8.1 percent of gross domestic product from 13.6 percent as tax increases and spending cuts kick in and the economy contracts less than forecast. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Jeroen van den Broek, a credit strategist at ING Groep NV, discusses the outlook for stress tests being conducted on European banks to see whether they could withstand losses if the region's debt crisis worsens.
     Van de Broek talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
