-- Japan's Bonds Rise on Prospects Pressure Mounting on BOJ for More Easing
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-12T06:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/japan-bonds-may-fall-as-kan-s-election-loss-might-curb-effort-to-cut-debt.html

          
          
             Japan’s bonds rose, ending a two-day
drop, as the ruling party’s defeat in upper-house elections
fueled speculation the government will seek to increase pressure
on the central bank to combat deflation.  
 Benchmark  yields also fell from near a two-week high on
expectations the central bank may boost purchases of government
debt at a future meeting. The Bank of Japan will keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero at a gathering this week,
according to all 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “The DPJ will have to be a little more serious about
arresting deflation and boosting economic growth, increasing
pressure on the BOJ” to do more easing, said  Takeshi Minami ,
chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. in Tokyo.
“That’s a positive factor for bonds.”  
 The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond fell three basis
points to 1.12 percent as of 3:08 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
1.1 percent security due June 2020 gained 0.267 yen to 99.821
yen. The yield rose to 1.165 percent on July 8, the highest
since June 23.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery advanced 0.24
to 141.45 at the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 The DPJ won 44 upper house seats in yesterday’s election,
losing some of the 54 it had at stake, according to results
compiled by public broadcaster NHK. Half of the 242 seats in the
less powerful of Japan’s two houses of parliament were contested.  
 ‘Extreme’ Measures  
 The DPJ’s popularity declined as Kan called for a debate on
whether to raise the 5 percent sales tax to lower the nation
debt. Losing the coalition government’s majority will mean he
has to reach out to smaller groups to ensure passage of
legislation to bolster growth.  
 The BOJ will maintain its benchmark rate at 0.1 percent
after its two-day meeting beginning July 14, according to the
Bloomberg survey. The central bank may take “more extreme”
measures at some stage, including boosting purchases of
government bonds,  Takahide Kiuchi , an economist at Nomura
Securities Co. in Tokyo, wrote in a note to clients today.  
 Consumer prices , excluding fresh food, fell for a 15th
month in May. Deflation, a general drop in prices, enhances the
value of the fixed payments from bonds.  
 Five-year inflation-linked bonds yield 1.1 percentage
points more than similar-maturity notes, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Inflation-adjusted securities typically
yield less than regular bonds because their principal payment
increases at the same rate as inflation.  
 ‘Optimism Fades’  
 The gain in bonds was tempered on speculation Kan’s
election defeat will impede his efforts to rein in the nation’s
rising debt levels.  
 “As optimism fades about the fiscal rehabilitation
strategy, yields should rise,” said  Osamu Koizumi , who helps
oversee the equivalent of $7.6 billion as chief investment
officer at Yasuda Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. Ten-year yields
may rise to 1.3 percent by the end of September, he said.  
 Should Koizumi’s forecast prove accurate, investors who buy
the securities today will incur a 1.3 percent loss, Bloomberg
calculations show.  
 The DPJ’s defeat is “potentially negative” for Japan’s
debt rating because of legislative gridlock, according to
Standard & Poor’s.  
 “It will be difficult for the government to push through
the necessary reforms and restructuring in the public sector and
the taxation system,” Takahira Ogawa, director of sovereign
ratings at S&P in Singapore, said in a phone interview today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), speaks during a news conference at the party's election center in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Martin Schulz, senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Japan's politics and implications for the economy.
     Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan lost control of parliament’s upper house, undermining legislative efforts to cut the world’s largest public debt and creating the possibility of a third leadership change in a year. The ruling Democratic Party of Japan won 44 seats, compared with 51 for the opposition Liberal Democratic Party, according to results compiled by public broadcaster NHK. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
