-- Producer Prices Increase for Second Month on Higher Commodity Expenses
-- Mayumi Otsuma
-- 2010-07-11T23:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/japan-s-producer-prices-rise-for-second-month-on-higher-commodity-expenses.html

          
          
             Japan’s  producer prices  rose for a
second month in June, driven by an increase in commodity costs
that may do little to arrest deflation.  
 The amount companies pay for energy and unfinished goods
climbed 0.5 percent from a year earlier after advancing a
revised 0.5 percent in May, the Bank of Japan said today in
Tokyo. The median forecast of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 0.6 percent increase.  
 Demand from emerging economies including China is driving
up material prices for Japanese companies, which are struggling
to pass the increases on to customers who are used to obtaining
cheaper goods. Manufacturers expect wholesale prices will rise
over the next quarter while their sale prices keep sliding, the
central bank’s Tankan survey showed this month.  
 “The problem of input-price inflation and output-price
deflation will persist,”  Hiroshi Watanabe , a senior economist
at the Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo, said before the
report. “Narrowing margins are a blow to companies because
cost-cutting is a major boost for their earnings now.”  
 The yen traded at 88.78 per dollar at 8:56 a.m. in Tokyo
from 88.80 before the figures were published.  
 Central bank Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said last week
that the world’s second-largest economy will keep expanding on
rising overseas demand, while adding that the pace of exports
and  production  will gradually slow. The bank will keep a “very
accommodative” policy to combat price declines, he added.  
 Weak Domestic Demand  
 “There are still few signs that domestic demand will
gather steam and take over as the engine of Japan’s
expansion,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “It will take
considerable time before deflation is overcome.”  
 Some companies are managing to pass on higher costs.  
 JFE Holdings Inc. , Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, said
last month that it expects automakers and other customers to
pay more as iron ore will probably climb more than 20 percent
and coal will increase 12 percent in the third quarter. JFE
“will be able to cover most of the cost rises” by raising
steel prices,  Eiji Hayashida , president of the Tokyo-based
company, told reporters last month.  
 Raw-material prices have slipped recently amid concern
that the European debt crisis will curtail global growth. Oil
dropped about 12 percent since the end of April. The Bank of
Japan’s  overseas commodity index , a gauge of costs of materials
including oil, steel, copper and wheat, rose 8.8 percent in
June from a year earlier, the slowest pace in nine months.  
 Catch-22  
 “Commodity price gains may decelerate as growth in
emerging countries cools, but that would also mean Japan’s
export-driven recovery will lose momentum, making it more
difficult for companies to pass on costs,” Daiwa’s Watanabe
said. “Japan is stuck in a Catch-22 situation.”  
 Producer prices fell 0.4 percent in June from May, when
they climbed a revised 0.2 percent, the central bank said today.  
 Bank of Japan policy makers forecast in April that
producer prices will climb 1.3 percent in the year ending March
2011, while  consumer prices  excluding fresh food will slide 0.5
percent. The board members will update their forecasts for
prices and economic growth on July 15, when they announce a
monetary policy decision.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        