-- Netanyahu Says International Sanctions Unlikely to Stop Iran Nuclear Drive
-- Jeff Bliss
-- 2010-07-11T16:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/netanyahu-says-international-sanctions-unlikely-to-stop-iran-nuclear-drive.html

          
          
             Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said Iran’s nuclear program probably can’t be stopped
by new United Nations and U.S. economic sanctions imposed during
the past month.  
 Netanyahu, speaking in an interview broadcast on “Fox News
Sunday” today, said the threat of U.S. military action might
curb a drive for a nuclear weapons capability. He argued that a
nuclear Iran couldn’t be contained.  
 “We’ve had effective nuclear peace for more than half a
century because everybody understood the rules,” the Israeli
leader said. “I don’t think you can rely on Iran.”  
 The U.S. and its allies are trying to thwart any Iranian
attempt to develop a nuclear arms capability that would pose a
threat to Israel and possibly set off a weapons race among other
Middle East countries. Iran maintains that its nuclear ambitions
are confined to peaceful uses such as generating electricity.  
 Netanyahu said it isn’t apparent Iran would hold back from
using nuclear weapons in the interest of self-preservation.  
 “You can’t rely on the fact that they’ll obey the
calculations of cost and benefit that have governed all nuclear
powers since the rise of the nuclear age after Hiroshima and
Nagasaki,” Netanyahu said, referring to the Japanese cities
destroyed by U.S. atomic bombs during World War II.  
 Obama on Iran  
 President  Barack Obama ’s willingness to consider military
action if Iran continues its nuclear program “might actually
have the only real effect on Iran, if they think it’s true,”
Netanyahu said. He conferred with Obama at the White House on
July 6.  
 In an Israeli television interview last week, Obama said
there are indications Iran is pursuing a nuclear weapon. “I
assure you I have not taken options off the table,” Obama said.  
 Obama signed legislation July 1 that expands U.S. sanctions
against Iran to punish foreign suppliers of gasoline and blocks
access to the American financial system for banks doing business
with the country.  
 The U.S. sanctions have been in the works for years and add
to penalties imposed last month by the UN Security Council on
financial transactions and trade with Iran. Under the authority
of Security Council Resolution 1929, the U.S. also barred
transactions involving the Post Bank of Iran and the
Revolutionary Guard Corps’ Air Force and Missile Command.  
 Iranian Banks  
 The Treasury Department said June 17 that Iran was using
the domestic-oriented Post Bank for international transactions
after the U.S. took action against other Iranian banks for
moving money beneficial to the country’s nuclear work.  
 Iran has brushed aside the tighter curbs. Sanctions may
slow down the nuclear program, though they won’t be able to halt
it, the country’s atomic chief said last week.  
 “We may face problems in peripheral devices, such as
measuring instruments,” Vice President  Ali Akbar Salehi , who is
in charge of Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization, was cited as
saying July 7 by the state-run Iranian Students News Agency.
Iran can build its own tools to circumvent restrictions on
uranium enrichment-related work, Salehi said.  
 Iran likely will step up deceptive practices aimed at
getting around the sanctions, Treasury Undersecretary for
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence  Stuart Levey  told a Senate
panel last month. Levey is an architect of American financial
restrictions on Iran.  
 “We will continue to expose this deception, thereby
reinforcing the very reasons why the private sector is
increasingly shunning Iran,” Levey said.  
 In the Fox interview, Netanyahu touched on Mideast peace
efforts, saying he doesn’t think negotiators could forge a deal
that would lead to a Palestinian state by 2012.  
 “It’s going to take longer than that” to implement a
negotiated peace, he said. The interview was conducted while
Netanyahu visited the U.S. last week, urging the Palestinian
Authority to engage in direct talks on a future state.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington   jbliss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        