-- Netanyahu to Seek Help on Direct Palestinian Talks in Meeting With Mubarak
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-07-11T15:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/netanyahu-says-will-try-to-advance-middle-east-peace-talks-with-mubarak.html

          
          
             Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said he will seek Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
help to arrange direct peace talks with Palestinian leaders, who
are hesitating to meet face-to-face with him.  
 Netanyahu, who held talks with President  Barack Obama  at
the White House last week, will meet Mubarak in Cairo on July
13, he told his Cabinet today in Jerusalem.  
 “I’m going to talk to him about advancing direct talks
with the Palestinians,” Netanyahu said in remarks broadcast on
Israel Radio.  
 Both Netanyahu and Obama said after their meeting that they
want to move the current U.S.-mediated indirect talks between
Israelis and Palestinians to face-to-face negotiations.
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who met with
Obama in Washington a month ago, said yesterday that it would be
“pointless” to enter direct talks if the so-called proximity
talks don’t move the sides closer to agreement.  
 Chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  has said Abbas
won’t negotiate directly with Netanyahu unless Israel freezes
all settlement construction in the West Bank. Netanyahu said
direct talks should begin immediately “without preconditions.”  
 The Israeli government declared a 10-month moratorium in
November on most building in the West Bank, excluding projects
involving public buildings such as synagogues and kindergartens.
The limited freeze, due to expire Sept. 26, allowed the
completion of some 3,000 housing units in which construction was
already underway.  
 Longer Than 2012  
 Netanyahu, speaking in an interview broadcast today on
“Fox News Sunday,” said he doesn’t think negotiators will be
able to forge a deal that would lead to a Palestinian state by
2012.  
 “It’s going to take longer than that” to implement a
negotiated peace, he said. The interview was conducted while
Netanyahu visited the U.S. last week.  
 Discussing his meeting with Obama during the Cabinet
meeting, Netanyahu said ties with the U.S. are “stable and
strong.” The U.S. leader “recognizes Israel’s security
needs,” he said.  
 Netanyahu indicated in New York last week that he doesn’t
want to extend the construction moratorium beyond September in
the hope that Abbas will agree to meet face-to-face.  
 “So far seven months have passed and they haven’t come
in,” Netanyahu said at the Council of Foreign Relations. “We
should not waste any more time.”  
 Still, he expressed confidence that he and Abbas could
reach an agreement if given a year to negotiate, saying, “ I
intend to confound the skeptics.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        