-- New Zealand Posts Wider Budget Gap Than Forecast on Weaker Consumer Demand
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-07T23:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/new-zealand-budget-deficit-is-narrower-than-forecast-on-delayed-spending.html
New Zealand’s budget cash deficit was
wider than the government forecast last quarter as weaker-than-
projected consumer demand slowed sales tax receipts.  The cash deficit totaled NZ$6.45 billion ($5.1 billion) in
the three months ended Sept. 30, or NZ$885 million more than
forecast in May’s budget, the Treasury Department said in a
statement released in Wellington today.  Finance Minister  Bill English  last month said the deficit
in the year ending June 30 could be wider than the NZ$13.3
billion previously forecast as sluggish household spending and
economic growth curb tax revenue. The government also faces
bills from the magnitude 7 earthquake that rocked Christchurch
and surrounding districts on Sept. 4.  “The lower-than-forecast tax take is largely the result of
lower-than-expected consumer spending as New Zealanders pay down
debt and save more,” English said in an e-mailed statement
today. “It reinforces the need for ongoing fiscal discipline.”  The  Earthquake Commission , the state-owned disaster insurer,
has initially estimated its net cost from the temblor will be
NZ$1.5 billion, today’s report showed. The money hadn’t been
spent at Sept. 30 and isn’t included in the cash deficit.  The government’s operating deficit, which includes money
allocated but not spent, was NZ$2.24 billion wider than expected,
excluding unrealized gains on government investments, the
Treasury said.  Tax Hike  English raised the sales tax to 15 percent from 12.5
percent on Oct. 1. The Treasury department today said an
expected boost in spending before the Goods & Services Tax
increase wasn’t as strong as forecast. Revenue from sales taxes
was NZ$564 million less than estimated in the three-month period,
it said.  “The result also reflected weaker-than-expected underlying
consumer spending levels,” the department said. Spending was
subdued in the third quarter “pointing to an ongoing shortfall
in GST revenue relative to budget forecasts,” it said.  Company tax revenue was NZ$458 million less than forecast
on weaker profits, the Treasury said.  Income tax receipts were stronger than forecast amid signs
of employment growth and more hours worked, the Treasury said.  New Zealand’s gross sovereign debt as of Sept. 30 was
NZ$59.1 billion, or 31.2 percent of gross domestic product, more
than a forecast of 29.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  