-- New Zealand House-Price Gains Slowed to 5.2% in June as Loan Rates Jumped
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-11T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/new-zealand-house-price-gains-slowed-to-5-2-in-june-as-loan-rates-jumped.html

          
          
             New Zealand  house prices  rose at a
slower pace in the year through June as home-loan interest rates
increased and consumer confidence declined.  
 Prices advanced 5.2 percent in June from a year earlier,
after gaining 5.6 percent in May and 6.1 percent in April,
according to an index compiled by  Quotable Value New Zealand
Ltd. . The Wellington-based government valuation agency doesn’t
publish monthly index values.  
 Weaker demand for property and modest rises in consumer
spending add to signs that New Zealand’s economic recovery will
be gradual this year. Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  last
month raised the official cash rate for the first time in three
years, saying households preferred to repay debt rather than
spend and further rate increases would be gradual.  
 “Buyers continue to be very cautious and selective in
their purchasing decisions” on property, Glenda Whitehead, a
valuer for Quotable Value in Auckland, said in a statement.  
 The number of sales is about 20 percent less than the long-
term average, and there are fewer homes coming onto the market,
Whitehead said. Both these trends are typical during the
nation’s winter months, she said.  
 Mortgage approvals in the three months ended July 2 fell 22
percent from a year earlier, according to central bank figures.  
 Lenders raised borrowing costs after Bollard increased the
 cash rate  a quarter-point to 2.75 percent on June 10. Still,
some rates have been rising the past year as bank funding costs
increase. The average two-year home-loan rate was 7.28 percent
in May from 6.28 percent a year earlier, according to central
bank figures.  
 Consumer confidence eased in June, according to an  index 
from Roy Morgan Research and ANZ National Bank Ltd. Forty-four
percent of those surveyed expect the economy to improve in the
next year, down from 56 percent in May.  
 Spending  on debit and credit cards rose 0.4 percent in June
from May, according to a government report on July 9. Second-
quarter spending was unchanged from the first three months of
the year, the report showed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        