-- Obama Aide Axelrod Calls U.S. Economy Stable, Rejects Anti-Business Label
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-11T15:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/obama-aide-axelrod-calls-u-s-economy-stable-rejects-anti-business-label.html

          
          
             White House adviser  David Axelrod 
rejected criticism that the Obama administration is over-
regulating and anti-business, asserting that the U.S. financial
system “is now stable, instead of collapsing.”  
 “We’re working closely with business,” Axelrod said on
the ABC “This Week” program. “We’re not micro-managing
anything.”  
 Ivan Seidenberg , chief executive of Verizon Communications
Inc., in a speech last month, said White House regulatory
policies were discouraging job growth and creating an anti-
business climate.  
 “By reaching into virtually every sector of economic life,
government is injecting uncertainty into the marketplace, and
making it harder to raise capital and create new businesses,”
Seidenberg said, according to a tape played by ABC.  
 Retail sales in the U.S. fell in June for a second month
and industrial production cooled, signs the expansion will
moderate in the second half, economists said before reports this
week.  
 Purchases  fell 0.3 percent after a 1.2 percent decline in
May, according to the median estimate of 59 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey ahead of figures due July 14. Production
at factories, mines and utilities declined 0.1 percent last
month, the Federal Reserve may report the next day.  
 Financial Stability  
 Axelrod rejected the argument that government has
intervened in the U.S. economy too much, saying that company
profits are increasing and that “our financial system is now
stable, instead of collapsing, which would have been
devastating.”  
 Axelrod defended Obama’s efforts to overhaul the financial
regulatory system, reining in bank risk-taking that could
further threaten the U.S. economy. A final vote on the
legislation may come in the Senate as early as this week.  
 “You can’t simply let industry in each and every case
self-regulate,” he said on ABC.  
 As Congress returns from its July 4 recess, the
administration will be pushing for passage of additional tax
relief for small business and make another attempt to obtain an
extension of unemployment insurance.  
 Small Business Lending  
 Lawmakers aren’t likely to add more stimulus money, Axelrod
said.  
 “There’s not a great appetite for it, but I do think we
can get additional tax relief for small businesses -- that’s
what we want to do -- additional lending for small businesses,”
Axelrod said.  
 Speaking on CNN’s “State of the Union” program today,
Axelrod predicted a “tough” 2010 campaign before the November
elections, with the economy “front and center.”  
 “We’re making a good, hard case because the American
people are going to have to choose between two economic
theories: the one that got us into this disaster in the first
place, and the one that is getting us out.”  
 Separately, White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” that “there’s no doubt there are
enough seats in play that could cause the Republicans to gain
control” of the House of Representatives, now controlled by
Obama’s Democratic Party.  
 “This will depend on strong campaigns by Democrats and
again I think we’ve got to take the issues to them,” Gibbs
said.  
 Bush Tax Cuts  
 Gibbs, asked whether the Obama administration will allow the
Republican Bush administration tax cuts to expire, said Obama
is “certainly not going to raise taxes” on the middle class.
Those taxpayers have “borne the brunt” of the economic crisis,
he said today on NBC.  
 Gibbs said that overhauling  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
mortgage companies 80 percent owned by U.S. taxpayers, “will be
the next step in financial reform,” as soon as financial
regulatory legislation is approved by Congress.  
 Axelrod said the White House has been overseeing  BP Plc ’s
oil-spill efforts to replace a cap with a tighter-fitting seal
to try to capture most, if not all, of the crude. The shift in
caps is underway, though in the interim, more oil will gush into
the Gulf of Mexico.  
 “We have every reason to believe this will work,” Axelrod
said on ABC.  
 Ken Feinberg , the administrator overseeing the $20 billion
fund to help people recover at least some of their losses, said
an independent payment facility will replace BP “by the first
week of August” and be more generous with emergency payments.  
 “We’re already prepared to give eligible claimants not one
month of emergency payments, but six months with no obligation,
no release required, just to try and help people in the Gulf,”
Feinberg said on CNN.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     David Axelrod, senior adviser to U.S. President Barack Obama, speaks during an interview in Washington. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
