-- Orica CEO Liebelt Sees Acquisition Opportunities After DuluxGroup Split
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-07-11T03:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/orica-ceo-liebelt-sees-acquisition-opportunities-after-duluxgroup-split.html

          
          
             Orica Ltd. , the world’s largest
industrial explosives maker, may consider acquisitions after it
completes a split with its DuluxGroup paint and garden products
business.  
 Any purchases would bolster growth from the company’s focus
on explosives, chemicals and services to the mining industry,
Chief Executive Officer  Graeme Liebelt  said in an interview with
Australian Broadcasting Corp. television today.  
 DuluxGroup, Australia’s maker of paints with brands
including Selleys and Cabot’s, will begin trading as a separate
company tomorrow on the Australian Securities Exchange. Orica
considered selling the business to rivals such as  Akzo Nobel NV ,
which owns the Dulux brand outside the Australian region, after
scrapping an earlier spinoff plan in 2008.  
 “The board had certainly considered a trade sale as an
alternative, although we didn’t go down that path,” Liebelt
said. “We’ve been in contact with Akzo Nobel and many other
international industry players over the years and they’ve known
about this opportunity and presumably chosen not to pursue it.”  
 DuluxGroup may be worth A$1.3 billion ($1.1 billion),
Merrill Lynch & Co. said in April.  
 Orica  shares  closed July 9 at A$25.68 and have fallen 1.4
percent this year, compared with a 9.7 percent decline in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  
 Patrick Houlihan , chief executive of DuluxGroup, said he
may consider his own acquisition as he seeks to build on the
company’s 40 percent share of the Australian market for paints
and leading position in plant and garden seeds.  
 “I’m not envisaging us doing dramatic step outs
domestically but rather bulking up the positions we’ve got
organically,” Houlihan said in a separate interview broadcast
by the ABC.  
 While Akzo Nobel’s ownership of Dulux outside Australia,
New Zealand, Fiji and Papua New Guinea limits where that brand
can be sold, Houlihan said there are no restrictions on
developing new labels or using Selley’s in other markets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        