-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Stocks Rally; Hedge Funds `Frozen'; Euro's Worst
-- Audrey Barker
-- 2010-07-11T04:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/most-read-on-bloomberg-stocks-rally-hedge-funds-frozen-euro-s-worst.html

          
          
             The following list comprises the
most-read Bloomberg News reports from the past week.  
 *Lists are based on daily statistics through yesterday, Friday,
July 9.  
 STORIES  
 1. U.S., European Stocks Rally as Treasuries, Dollar Erase Gains  
 July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks surged, sending U.S. benchmark
indexes up the most since May, while the dollar and Treasuries
slid as growth in American retail sales bolstered optimism in
the earnings season and investors speculated European banks will
pass stress tests.  
 2. U.S. Stocks Regain Advance With Late Rally; Dollar Weakens  
 July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks gained, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rising from a 10-month low, on speculation
earnings growth will help the market rebound from its lowest
valuation since 2009, while a Spanish bond sale quelled concern
the nation will struggle to fund its deficit. The dollar fell.  
 3. Hedge Funds ‘Frozen in Headlights’ Scale Back Trading  
 July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Hedge-fund managers, Wall Street’s
best compensated and supposedly smartest investors, are dazed
and confused.  
 4. NYC Broils in Record 103 as Heat Wave Hits Northeast  
 July 6 (Bloomberg) -- New Yorkers were warned to stay in
the shade and check on relatives and neighbors today as the
temperature soared to a record 103 degrees Fahrenheit (39
degrees Celsius), breaking the mark for the date of 101 set in
1999.  
 5. Euro Worst to Come for Top Analysts as TD Sees Parity  
 July 6 (Bloomberg) -- The most accurate foreign-exchange
forecaster says the euro will continue to weaken and may
approach parity with the dollar as the European Central Bank
buys more government bonds to support the region’s economy.  
 6. Stocks, Oil Rise on Economy; 10-Year Treasury Yield Tops 3%  
 July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Stocks rose, giving the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index its first three-day rally since April, and oil
gained as the International Monetary Fund lifted its estimate
for global growth and U.S. jobless claims decreased. Ten-year
Treasury yields topped 3 percent for the first time this month.  
 7. Euro Ends Three-Day Win Streak; Brazil, Canada Stocks Fall  
 July 5 (Bloomberg) -- The euro ended a three-day winning
streak and bonds rose after European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet urged “austerity” measures to contain
budget deficits. Oil and stocks in Brazil and Canada declined.  
 8. Rogoff Says China Property Starting to ‘Collapse’  
 July 6 (Bloomberg) -- China’s property market is beginning
a “collapse” that will hit the nation’s banking system, said
Kenneth Rogoff, the Harvard University professor and former
chief economist of the International Monetary Fund.  
 9. Deficits Shrink Most in Decades as Growth Lets S&P 500 Rally  
 July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Industrial countries are embarking on
the most aggressive tightening of fiscal policy in more than
four decades, led by the U.S. and Britain, as governments gamble
they can pare debt without strangling an economic recovery.  
 10. European Banks’ Hidden Losses Threaten EU Stress Test  
 July 6 (Bloomberg) -- The U.S. government’s bank stress
tests a year ago helped financial stocks to rebound 36 percent
over the next seven months. Europe’s plan to follow may not be
as successful.  
 COLUMNS  
 1. Ask George W. Bush How to Avert a Double Dip: Kevin Hassett  
 July 6 (Bloomberg) -- As the jobless recovery continues,
President Barack Obama and his liberal supporters argue that the
U.S. needs another stimulus or risks a double-dip recession. A
look behind the numbers suggests that liberal policies will hand
us a double dip whether we get a stimulus or not.  
 2. Bonus Caps Stop Traders Gambling Public Money: Sharon Bowles  
 July 8 (Bloomberg) -- One of the most disturbing aspects of
the financial crisis was the extent to which risk was fuelled by
hugely disproportionate bonuses. For the ordinary taxpayer who
ended up footing the bill for bailing out the banks, the zeros
on the end of a banker’s bonus check were unfathomable.  
 3. BRIC Stepchild Is Only Cheap at Half the Price: Julian Rimmer  
 July 7 (Bloomberg) -- When strategists appraise the Russian
stock market, they cherp “It’s cheap!” without fail. In this
new world order, investors are meant to prize inexpensive
emerging markets with flexible exchange rates, political
predictability, current account surpluses and reassuring
reserves. Markets like Russia’s, for instance.  
 4. LeBron James Blows by A-Rod in Egomania Battle: Soshnick  
 July 8 (Bloomberg) -- LeBron James sure has a short memory.  
 5. Apple’s Real ‘Death Grip’ Is on Its Customers: Rich
Jaroslovsky  
 July 10 (Bloomberg) -- I feel so inadequate.  
 MULTIMEDIA  
 1. Trichet Says Money Market Rates Don’t Reflect ECB Policy  
 July 8 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet talks about today’s decision to leave the
benchmark rate at a record low of 1 percent.  
 2. Rogoff Sees Beginning of China Property ‘Collapse’  
 July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard
University and former chief economist at the International
Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg’s Susan Li about China’s
real estate market and economy.  
 3. Octopus Oracle Tips Spain Over Germany in World Cup Semi  
 July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Paul, a two-year old octopus,
predicts a German defeat by Spain in today’s World Cup semi-
final by selecting a mussel from labeled glass tanks.  
 4. Krugman Says U.S. Economy May Be Facing a ‘Long Siege’  
 July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul
Krugman talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and steps
necessary to maintain growth.  
 5. Deshpande Favors Companies With ‘Long Duration Assets’  
 July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Abhay Deshpande, who co-manages the
First Eagle Global Fund, discusses investment strategy and the
performance Martin Marietta Materials Inc. and Vulcan Materials
Co.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Audrey Barker  in New York at 
 Abarker3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        