-- Picasso Swaps Lovers, Seeks Sun, Ditches Skulls: Martin Gayford
-- Martin Gayford
-- 2010-07-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/picasso-swaps-lovers-seeks-sun-ditches-skulls-martin-gayford.html

          
          
             Pablo Picasso  (1881-1973) had an
epic life. He lived to be almost 92 years old, enjoyed almost
uninterrupted health and success, and worked virtually every day
for more than seven decades.  
 He remains the dominant artist of modern times -- his only
possible rival for that title being  Henri Matisse . A remarkable
and beautifully selected exhibition at the Gagosian in Britannia
Street, London, presents him in the ripely productive autumn of
his career.  
 At its opening point, the artist was already 64. He still
had almost three decades to go during which he explored new
media, created an abundance of masterpieces and experienced the
last two great loves of his life. He had also just come out of
one of his darkest periods: the wartime occupation of Paris.  
 During the war Picasso kept low, holed up in his left-bank
studio, producing work that is characterized, as the curator
John Richardson puts it, by its ‘cell-like settings and fear-
filled grayness”. There is still a touch of monochrome drabness
about the earlier works in this show. But Picasso’s life rapidly
opened out.  
 From 1946 he spent much of his time in the sunshine of the
South of France, eventually settling there permanently. It was a
return to the Mediterranean world of his upbringing and youth,
and brought out a vein of pastoral fantasy in the great man. In
place of the grim skulls of the early 1940s, piping, garlanded
shepherds and their goats appear.  
 Fired Clay  
 In 1946 on impulse Picasso took up ceramics, a medium he
had not worked in since the early 1900s. In the following years,
he produced plates, vases and sculptures in fired clay by the
hundred. There is a light, relaxed feel to many of these pieces.
Indeed, much of Picasso’s work at this time has a playful
quality.  
 On show are some of the little masks, animals, birds, hats
and items such as neck-ties he made from cardboard and paper for
his children, guests and friends.  
 This interest in childish things was connected to the fact
that there were young children in Picasso’s world. He started a
relationship with Francoise Gilot, a student 40 years his
junior, in 1944. In the late 1940s and early 1950s it was the
family he had with Gilot -- a son, Claude, born in 1947 and
daughter  Paloma  in 1949 -- that seemed to spark his imagination
more than Gilot herself.  
 Baboon Head  
 There are portraits of both infants in the show, and their
toys got into his work, most memorably in the case of “Baboon
and Young” (1951). This sculpture is an example of Picasso the
magician, transforming one thing, abracadabra, into another. Its
head is made of two of young Claude’s toy cars, cast in bronze
and metamorphosed with complete conviction into the animal’s
eyes and snout.  
 With Picasso, his private life was his subject matter. When
his mistress changed, everything changed. Gilot’s successor was
Jacqueline Roque, whom he eventually married in 1961. Her grave,
sad beauty came to dominate his art. Before she was installed as
reigning mistress, a number of young women were, so to speak,
auditioned for the role.  
 One of these, a redhead perhaps from Eastern Europe, was
the subject of “Femme a la robe verte” (1954). Even Richardson
-- who is also Picasso’s biographer and friend -- has failed so
far to establish her identity. There is still a good deal to
discover about the life and work of this hugely prolific artist.
From beyond the grave, he continues to astonish.  
 “Picasso: The Mediterranean Years 1945-1962” runs through
Aug. 28 at the Gagosian, 6-24 Britannia Street, London WC1X 9JD.
Information: +44-207-841-9960 or
 http://www.gagosian.com/exhibitions/2010-06-04_picasso/   
 ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Paloma Debout"  
                       
                         
                           Eric Baudouin/Gagosian Gallery via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Paloma Debout" by Pablo Picasso. The picture is on display in "Picasso: The Mediterranean Years" at the Gagosian Gallery, 6-24 Britannia Street, London through August 28. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Paloma Debout" by Pablo Picasso. The picture is on display in "Picasso: The Mediterranean Years" at the Gagosian Gallery, 6-24 Britannia Street, London through August 28. Photographer: Eric Baudouin/Gagosian Gallery via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       ''La Femme Enceinte I''  
                       
                         
                           Rob McKeever/Gagosian Gallery via Bloomberg 
                         
                         ''La Femme Enceinte I'' (''The Pregnant Woman I'') by Pablo Picasso. The work is at the Gagosian Gallery in London for the exhibition ''Picasso: The Mediterranean Years (1945-1962)'' through August 28. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     ''La Femme Enceinte I'' (''The Pregnant Woman I'') by Pablo Picasso. The work is at the Gagosian Gallery in London for the exhibition ''Picasso: The Mediterranean Years (1945-1962)'' through August 28.  Photographer: Rob McKeever/Gagosian Gallery via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       ''Femme et Enfants: Le Dessin''  
                       
                         
                           Eric Baudouin/Gagosian Gallery via Bloomberg 
                         
                         ''Femme et Enfants: Le Dessin'' (''Women and Children: The Drawing'') by Pablo Picasso. The work is at the Gagosian Gallery in London for the exhibition ''Picasso: The Mediterranean Years (1945-1962)'' through August 28. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     ''Femme et Enfants: Le Dessin'' (''Women and Children: The Drawing'') by Pablo Picasso. The work is at the Gagosian Gallery in London for the exhibition ''Picasso: The Mediterranean Years (1945-1962)'' through August 28. Photographer: Eric Baudouin/Gagosian Gallery via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Musicien Assis"  
                       
                         
                           Patrick Goetelen/Gagosian Gallery via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Musicien Assis" (1956)  by Pablo Picasso. The work is on display in "Picasso: The Mediterranean Years" at the Gagosian Gallery, 6-22 Britannia Street, London through August 28. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Musicien Assis" (1956)  by Pablo Picasso. The work is on display in "Picasso: The Mediterranean Years" at the Gagosian Gallery, 6-22 Britannia Street, London through August 28. Photographer: Patrick Goetelen/Gagosian Gallery via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Tete a la Coiffe"  
                       
                         
                           Patrick Goetelen/Gagosian Gallery via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Tete a la Coiffe" by Pablo Picasso. The work is on view in "Picasso: The Mediterranean Years" at the Gagosian Gallery, 6-24 Britannia Street, London through August 28. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Tete a la Coiffe" by Pablo Picasso. The work is on view in "Picasso: The Mediterranean Years" at the Gagosian Gallery, 6-24 Britannia Street, London through August 28. Photographer: Patrick Goetelen/Gagosian Gallery via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     This is an undated handout photo of John Richardson, author of ``A Life of Picasso: Volume III, The Triumphant Years, 1917-
1932''. Source: Knopf via Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
