-- Sheppard, Yankees' `Voice of God' for More Than 4,400 Games, Dies at 99
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-07-12T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/sheppard-yankees-voice-of-god-for-more-than-4-400-games-dies-at-99.html

          
          
             Bob Sheppard , the Yankee Stadium
announcer known as the “Voice of God,” has died. He was 99.  
 Sheppard died yesterday morning at his home in Baldwin,
New York, the Yankees said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Sheppard’s perfect diction and intonations made their
debut at the Yankees’ season opener of April 17, 1951 --and
were heard at every opening-day baseball game until April 11,
2006, when he dislocated his artificial hip. His resonant
introductions of players from  Joe DiMaggio  to  Derek Jeter 
echoed within the Bronx ballpark and carried well beyond to the
elevated subway platforms.  
 A bronchial infection led to a lengthy hospital stay at
the end of the 2007 regular season and the Yankees said he
never returned to announce another game. By then, Sheppard’s
voice had reverberated in New York City’s most-famous stadium
for more than half a century and in more than 4,400 games.  
 “Your attention, please, ladies and gentlemen,” Sheppard
would demand, whether asking fans to rise for the national
anthem or to note: “Now batting for the Yankees, the
shortstop, No. 2, Derek Jeter, No. 2.”  
 A recording of Sheppard’s introduction of Jeter now plays
at the player’s request and has since Sheppard’s lengthy
absence in 2007, the Yankees said yesterday.  
 Deep Voice  
 Fans and players alike paid heed to Sheppard’s deep voice.  
 “When you think of Yankee Stadium, he’s the first thing
that comes to mind,” Jeter, the Yankee captain and shortstop,
said in April 2006. “It’s not right playing here unless he’s
the one that’s announcing.”  
 Nor were Sheppard’s admirers limited to the Yankees.
“Just hearing your name over the public-address system gives
you a shot of adrenaline,” said ex- Met Mike Piazza , who
swatted a home run at Yankee Stadium in 2000 with Sheppard’s
voice still ringing in his ears.  
 Sheppard was “a fine man whose voice set the gold
standard for America’s sports announcers,”  George Steinbrenner , principal owner of the Yankees, said in a
statement. “His death leaves a lasting silence.”  
 Sheppard was a New York high school speech teacher when he
was hired as a public-address announcer for pro football games
at Yankee Stadium in the late 1940s. He shifted to Yankee
baseball after being assured it wouldn’t interfere with his
teaching career.  
 Steady job  
 “The first rule of being a good public-address announcer
is to have a steady job on the outside,” he said.  
 Robert Leo Sheppard , who grew up in the New York borough
of Queens, consistently refused to disclose his age; New York
voter records listed his date of birth as Oct. 20, 1910.  
 In addition to the Yankees, Sheppard was the public-
address announcer for the New York Giants football team from
1956 until he retired from that job after the 2005 season.  
 He played varsity football and baseball for St. John’s
University, where he earned a degree in speech in 1932. He also
received a master’s degree in speech from Columbia University.  
 Sheppard was the chairman of the speech department of John
Adams High School in Queens before becoming a professor of
speech at St John’s.  
 He took equal pride in his longevity as an announcer and
in adhering to a “clear, concise, correct” style behind the
microphone.  
 Screamers  
 “You name it, I did it, and without emotion,” Sheppard
said, “which is amazing when you think about the public-
address announcers in the world today. They are screamers.”  
 Sheppard arrived early at games to check how ballplayers
he didn’t know pronounced their names, a professional courtesy
that he had also extended to students in his high school
classes.  
 Aside from DiMaggio, whose name Sheppard said he enjoyed
pronouncing, his first opening day lineup included  Mickey Mantle , another player with a name the announcer said rolled
enjoyably off his tongue because of its rhythm and
alliteration.  
 As for other players, Sheppard said he found pleasure in
introducing multisyllabic names like  Alfonso Soriano  rather
than names like, for instance, Steve Sax.  
 World Series Perfection  
 One of Sheppard’s most exciting moments as a broadcaster
occurred on Oct. 8, 1956. With two outs in the bottom of the
ninth inning, Don Larsen was on the verge of pitching the first
perfect game in World Series history.  
 And then, Sheppard recalled, “I had to introduce a pinch
hitter, Dale Mitchell, for the Brooklyn Dodgers.”  
 There ensued a few more tense minutes and then Mitchell
was called out on strikes. As pandemonium broke out in the
stadium, Sheppard said he exhaled, quietly, at last.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York  at
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        