-- Short Selling Isn't Riskier Than Other Trading, European Bank Group Says
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-11T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/short-selling-isn-t-riskier-than-other-trading-european-bank-group-says.html

          
          
             A European group that represents
banks including  UBS AG  and  Deutsche Bank AG  said the European
Union’s plans to crack down on some forms of naked short selling
has targeted risks  “that do not exist.”  
 Short selling is no riskier than trading other securities,
the Association for Financial Markets in London said in a
statement today. The group said in a submission to the European
Commission that proposals to make investors disclose short
positions at low thresholds are “unfair.”  
 Politicians have blamed speculation on sovereign-debt
securities for exacerbating the financial crisis in Greece. The
EU said it would introduce a legislation to harmonize rules on
the trades in the 27-nation region on after Germany introduced a
ban on naked short selling of credit-default swaps on European
government bonds and some financial company shares.  
 “Disclosure should be made in a way that provides
regulators with the information necessary for them to mitigate
systemic risk,” Mark Austen, acting chief executive officer of
AFME, said in a submission to the EU. “Market participants
strongly believe that the commission’s recent regulatory
proposals are disproportionate to the potential risks.”  
 The EU plans to propose new rules on short selling in
September, Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said
last month. The commission, the EU’s executive agency, is
reviewing comments from industry groups before making any
proposals.  
 ‘Liquidity Providers’  
 While AFME said it supports the EU’s plan to standardize
rules, it said the proposals can’t ignore the needs of market
participants.  
 “Any regulation of short selling must also recognize the
role played by banks and other liquidity providers that
underwrite or sub-underwrite new share issues,” Austen said.  
 Credit-default swaps are derivatives that pay the buyer
face value if a borrower -- a country or a company -- defaults.
In exchange, the swap seller gets the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent.  
 Traders in naked credit-default swaps buy insurance on
bonds they don’t own. Naked short selling involves selling a
security without ever being in possession of it.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        