-- Sigma Pharmaceuticals Seeks Better Offer After Aspen Reduces Takeover Bid
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-07-12T08:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/sigma-says-aspen-exclusivity-period-lapsed-no-extension-has-been-granted.html

          
          
             Sigma Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , the
Australian drug company that has lost more than half its market
value this year, said it wants  Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd.  to
improve its takeover offer, a week after the suitor cut its bid.  
 Sigma is willing to work with Aspen to help remove some
conditions of the 55 Australian cents-a-share offer, said the
Melbourne-based company, Australia’s biggest drug distributor by
market share. Talks don’t mean Sigma will recommend the bid to
shareholders and Aspen’s exclusive right to negotiate an
agreement hasn’t been extended, Sigma said in a statement today.  
 Last month, Sigma replaced its chief executive officer, one
of three top managers who quit after the company posted a record
full-year loss. Durban, South Africa-based Aspen said July 7 it
cut its bid for Sigma by 8.3 percent to A$648 million ($567
million) after reviewing the Australian company’s books.  
 “Unless there’s something we don’t know, I think it would
be very hard for the board to recommend an offer at 55 cents,”
 David Arter , an analyst at Wilson HTM Investment Group in
Melbourne, said by telephone. “Shareholders are under the
belief that there’s good recovery potential for the business.
There’s a major management change underway.”  
 Shares of Sigma closed  unchanged  at 45.5 Australian cents
at on the Australian stock exchange, extending this year’s
decline to 54 percent.  
 Possible Asset Sales  
 “Sigma continues to consider the most appropriate business
and financial structures to take the group forward, including a
number of potential asset sales,” the drug distributor said in
its statement. Shareholders should take no action at this stage,
it said.  
 Sigma appointed  Brian Jamieson  to replace  John Stocker  as
chairman on June 21 and said the same day it may miss its full-
year profit forecast.  
 The company said June 16 that  Mark Hooper , a former head of
finance at Sigma, will succeed  Elmo de Alwis  as chief executive
officer. Sigma has yet to appoint a chief financial officer
after  Mark Smith  quit.  
 Aspen’s offer was reduced from 60 Australian cents a share
and comes with 11 conditions. These include a break fee payable
to Aspen if the deal doesn’t proceed for certain reasons after
acceptance by shareholders.  
 “The fact that Sigma are bending over backwards to make it
happen indicates to me that things are pretty bad operationally
for Sigma,”  John Hester , a health-care analyst at Linwar
Securities Ltd. in Sydney, said by telephone. “Mark’s just one
man. It’s going to take him years to turn the ship around.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angus Whitley  at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Simeon Bennett  at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        