-- Six Investment Tips to Take Away From World Cup: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-07-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/six-investment-tips-to-take-away-from-world-cup-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             Some people might think the hours
you spent over the last month sitting around, drinking beer and
watching the soccer World Cup being played in South Africa was a
waste of valuable time.  
 Of course, they are wrong. Between cries of “no way was
that offside!” in front of the television, some of us have been
carefully constructing an investment portfolio that will make us
a fortune in the next year.  
 After all, there were plenty of lessons in business,
management and investment being displayed right in front of us.
You just had to look hard.  
 Not convinced? Well, here are six stock tips you can take
away from the World Cup:  
 The English lesson: Globalization can go too far.  
 The English Premier League is the most international in the
world. The top teams such as Manchester United and Chelsea have
drawn talent from everywhere. The theory is that even though
there are few spaces left for English players, those who do make
it through will benefit from playing alongside the best players.
Er, wrong. Two dismal performances at successive World Cups by
the English team suggest the national game is in sad decline.
You can take all the global village stuff too far. In the end,
people and companies do best when they stay true to what they
are and who they are.  
 Tip: Buy  Club Mediterranee SA . The vogue among big
companies is to become ever more international, losing sight of
their heritage as they create blander and blander products that
are stripped of any distinctive national characteristics. A few,
such as the French resort chain Club Med, remain rooted in the
culture and traditions of their home country. They will do
better in the long run.  
 The French lesson: Egos will get you nowhere.  
 For the English, the one consolation of a terrible World
Cup was that the French were even worse. France’s star striker
 Nicolas Anelka  was sent home for insulting coach  Raymond Domenech  at halftime while the team got beaten by Mexico.
Afterwards, the players revolted, and the team was eliminated in
the first round. It was humiliating. But when the egos get out
of control, you are in big trouble.  
 Tip: Sell  Barclays Plc . The British bank used to be mainly
a retail financial-services company concentrating on the U.K.
market. Now its Barclays Capital unit is a big competitor on
Wall Street. Can it keep all those investment-banking egos under
control? Dream on.  
 The Korean lesson: Isolation doesn’t work.  
 There were two Koreas playing in this World Cup: the North
and South. While South Korea played impressive, free-flowing
football and were unlucky to be knocked out by Uruguay, the
North was just embarrassing, as anyone who watched their 7-0
drubbing by Portugal will testify. The contrast couldn’t have
been more stark, and the lesson was a simple one. The country
that was open to the rest of the world was developing fast,
while the one that closed itself off was getting nowhere.  
 Tip: Sell  Apple Inc.  Sure, everyone loves those iPhones,
iPads and iKettles, or whatever the geniuses at Apple come up
with next. But it believes in closed systems that it controls
absolutely. Sooner or later that will be its downfall.  
 The Italian Lesson: History counts for nothing.  
 Nobody came into the tournament with a better record than
Italy. OK, they are a boring team, but that didn’t stop them
from winning in 2006. Everyone knows the Italians will do fine
even when they are complete rubbish -- that’s what the record
books show. Except not this time. They were terrible, and they
went home on the first plane.  
 Tip: Sell Toyota Motor Corp. True, it has been the most
successful car company on the planet. But a couple of serious
product recalls suggest Toyota has lost it. A great track record
won’t help.  
 The German Lesson: Transform yourself with style.  
 We all know what the German team is like: Italy with worse
haircuts. Dour, efficient, methodical and hard-working, they
would grind their way through the tournament, and probably win
it on penalties. But, hey, not this time. The Germans played
attacking football that made the Brazilians look dull, and had
the neutrals cheering them on. Only the ruthlessness of the
Spanish defense snuffed out their creative flair. The moral?
Give yourself a style makeover and the world will love you.  
 Tip: Buy  Burberry Group Plc . A couple of decades ago, we
thought it was the company that made those raincoats your
grandmother wore. Not anymore. Now Burberry is one of the
coolest brands around -- and likely to stay that way.  
 The Spanish Lesson: Keep believing and you’ll get there in
the end.  
 Let’s be honest, we didn’t think they could ever do it.
They probably didn’t think they could do it, either. One of the
best soccer nations on Earth, but Spain had never been past the
quarter-finals before. This time, they taught us all a lesson in
perseverance. Hang in there. Don’t give up the faith. And you
will make it in the end.  
 Tip: Buy  BP Plc . Alright, the oil keeps gushing from that
well. The chief executive is a joke. They have more lawsuits
pending than the Chileans have yellow cards. But they can come
back from that one day. They just need to believe, that’s all.  
 ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Matthew Lynn  in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        