-- South Africa Draws Praise as World Cup Concludes
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-12T16:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/south-africa-draws-praise-as-world-cup-concludes-with-750-million-watching.html

          
          
             South Africa has pulled off what
many said couldn’t be done: a soccer World Cup that filled
stadiums and gave thousands of fans a party they won’t forget.  
 The month-long tournament, the world’s most-watched
sporting event, ended yesterday with a victory for Spain at
Soccer City stadium in Johannesburg. Foreign visitors to the
competition may have numbered half a million, the Finance
Ministry said, exceeding an earlier estimate by 200,000.  
 The absence of any serious crime, the tournament’s smooth
operation and the publicity given to South Africa will help the
country shed its reputation for murder and racial tension, said
 Pratibha Thaker , Africa director at the London-based Economist
Intelligence Unit. Now, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  says he
hopes the country can use that drive to tackle unemployment,
AIDS and poor educational standards.  
 “Before the World Cup, the news was all about crime and
AIDS,” Thaker said in a July 5 phone interview. “What we’re
seeing now is a very favorable image. This will help to boost
tourism and boost the recovery. It’s crucial that the government
keeps the momentum going.”  
 South Africa’s high school graduation rate has dropped for
the past six years, more people suffer from AIDS than in any
other country, 2.1 million people are on waiting lists for
public housing and the 25.2 percent  jobless rate  is the highest
of 62 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Poverty and Unemployment  
 If government, business and labor unions “can play as a
team, we can scale up our collective efforts towards the
improvement of all South Africans,” Gordhan told economists in
Johannesburg on July 8. “What we’ve learned from the six years
of preparation for the World Cup is that if we can focus our
minds, we can put an end to poverty and unemployment in this
country.”  
 More immediately, the tournament may encourage more people
to visit South Africa, where tourism represents 7.9 percent of
the  economy  and employs 920,000 people. The industry earned 79.4
billion rand ($10.5 billion) last year, compared with 48.7
billion rand from gold mining.  
 “The real benefits lie ahead of us, provided we work hard
to nurture new relationships and draw numbers of new tourists
and investments to our shores,” Nobel laureate Archbishop
 Desmond Tutu  said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Johannesburg-based  Tourvest Investment Corp. , Africa’s
biggest package-tour operator, and  Peermont Global Ltd. , owner
of the Emperor’s Palace resort, say they plan to step up
investment in anticipation of a tourist boom.  
 Even if only a small proportion of the final’s estimated
750 million viewers visit South Africa, “that would be a very
meaningful increase in the number of tourists,” Peermont Chief
Executive Officer  Anthony Puttergill  said by phone from
Johannesburg on July 2.  
 ‘Play as a Team’  
 Though some of the 43 billion rand spent preparing for the
World Cup went for building or renovating 10 stadiums, South
Africa also invested for competitiveness. It upgraded a 50-
kilometer (31-mile) highway between Pretoria and Johannesburg to
10 lanes, set up a new bus system with dedicated lanes and built
a rapid train service from Johannesburg’s airport to Sandton,
where the stock exchange is based.  
 The new roads will slash commuting times, and the airports
and train service will make life easier for tourists and
business travelers.  
 The World Cup has helped South Africa learn “expertise to
deal with creating jobs, improving education and providing
health services,” President  Jacob Zuma  told reporters in
Johannesburg today. The payoff of the tournament will be
increased tourism and investment, he said.  
 “We mustn’t underestimate the change in perceptions about
South Africa and our continent,”  Maria Ramos , CEO of Barclays
Plc’s Absa Group Ltd., the country’s third-largest lender, said
on June 27. “People have visited and had a good time. The
dividends of that we’ll be reaping for a long time.”  
 Crime and Punishment  
 South African officials took extraordinary measures to
prevent crime against tourists in a country where the murder
rate is six times higher than in the U.S. and almost 12 times
the level in Britain. The government set up 56 special
courtrooms to try offenses related to the World Cup, such as
theft and violence. They have seen only 194 cases, almost all
for petty crime.  
 “The police were efficient and the special courts were
effective,” the competition’s organizing committee chief,  Danny Jordaan , said on July 9, according to the South African Press
Association. “The question is how do we maintain this?”  
 Peter Attard Montalto , an economist at Nomura Plc in
London, said he was skeptical the tournament’s success will
result in increased investment or transform the efficiency of
the state.  
 “People soon forget the World Cup when you start talking
about the outlook for wages, electricity prices and the issues
around supply-side constraints, such as education and health,”
Montalto said. “It always comes back to the bottom line.”  
 Less Than Ghana  
 Investment in South Africa was 19.3 percent of gross
domestic product last year, compared with 26 percent in Nigeria,
30 percent in Ghana and 29 percent in Senegal, according to the
International Monetary Fund.  
 “South Africa has been moving too slowly,”  Mark Mobius ,
who oversees $34 billion in emerging-market investments at
Templeton Asset Management Ltd., said by phone from Hong Kong.
“They are not moving at the pace that is required to prevent
major political upheavals.”  
 South Africa’s economy, which contracted 1.8 percent in
2009, needs to grow by 6 percent a year to reach the official
goal of reducing unemployment to 14 percent by 2014, according
to the government. Unemployment and housing shortages fueled a
wave of protests in townships around the country earlier this
year.  
 “South Africa will certainly benefit from the World Cup in
terms of tourism,”  Iraj Abedian , chief executive officer of
Pan-African Capital Holdings Ltd., a Johannesburg-based adviser
to potential investors, told reporters on July 2. “The question
is whether we can use the same level of coordination and
political will to get it right on housing, education and health
care.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pravin Gordhan, South Africa's finance minister, speaks during an interview in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Rachel Brookes reports from Johannesburg on the companies that have benefited financially from the soccer World Cup in South Africa. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
