-- Spain Defeats Netherlands 1-0 in Extra Time to Win First World Cup Title
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-07-12T13:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/spain-defeats-netherlands-1-0-in-extra-time-to-win-first-world-cup-title.html

          
          
             Spain beat the Netherlands 1-0 in
extra time last night to win its first soccer World Cup title in
a final that set a record for yellow cards.  
 Andres Iniesta  scored in the 116th minute at Soccer City in
Johannesburg after the match finished scoreless in regulation.
The game featured 14 yellow cards, the most in a World Cup
final. Nine of them went to the Dutch, who had defender  John Heitinga  sent off for his second caution.  
 Spain added the global title to the European Championship
it won two years ago to become soccer’s first new world champion
since France in 1998. The Spanish recovered from a loss in their
opening game with Switzerland that had made it difficult for the
team to make the knockout stages. Spain scored just 8 times in
the tournament, beating the record of 11 goals held by 1994
champion Brazil and 1966 victor England.  
 “It was very intense, balanced and even,” Spain coach
 Vicente del Bosque  told journalists. “It was rough at times,
but that’s part of football. After Switzerland I reminded my
players what had brought us here.”  
 The match was overshadowed by two bomb blasts in the
Ugandan capital of Kampala that killed at least 70 people. The
attacks are suspected to have been carried out by Somali
insurgents linked to al-Qaeda, Ugandan security officials said.  
 The Spanish had 56 percent of possession, even as the Dutch
tried to hurry players into passes in an attempt to turn the
ball over. The Dutch committed 28 fouls, compared with 19 for
the new champions. Netherlands coach  Bert van Marwijk  said his
team didn’t plan to foul its way through the match.  
 ‘Horrible Fouls’  
 “It’s not our style to commit horrible fouls,” he said.
“It’s not our kind of football. It was a World Cup final and
people were tense. I think both sides, also the Spaniards,
committed terrible fouls.”  
 By winning the first World Cup to be staged in Africa,
Spain also becomes the only European nation to clinch soccer’s
biggest prize away from its own continent.  
 Spain’s victory also took Europe 10-9 ahead of South
America in overall World Cup wins and will keep the trophy on
the same continent for the first time since 1962, when Brazil
clinched back-to-back titles. Spain is the eighth country to win
in the tournament’s 80-year history.  
 The Netherlands, which finished as runner-up in 1974 and
1978, had won all six games en route to the final and all eight
qualifying matches.  
 “We did this to ourselves,”  Van Marwijk  said after the
Netherlands became the first team to lose in three World Cup
finals. “It’s very bitter in defeat, and very sad, but the best
team won.”  
 First-Round Flops  
 The defeat of the Dutch left New Zealand as the 32-nation
tournament’s only unbeaten team following three draws in the
group stage, which saw defending champion Italy and 2006 runner-
up France exit after finishing bottom of their pools.  
 Record five-time champion Brazil lost to the Netherlands in
the quarterfinals, while  Diego Maradona ’s Argentina was routed
4-0 by Germany at the same stage. The Germans, who beat Uruguay
3-2 two days ago to finish third, also put four goals past
Australia and England.  
 The tournament will be remembered for the droning of
vuvuzelas, the plastic horns played non-stop by supporters, as
well as players’ complaints about the imperfect flight of the
Adidas Jabulani ball. England’s  Robert Green  didn’t play again
after allowing a U.S. shot to trickle into his net, and referees
Koman Coulibaly, Jorge Larrionda and Roberto Rosetti were sent
home before the final after errors that may have changed games.  
 South Americans  
 South America got a record five teams into the last 16,
only to have four crash out before the semifinals, leaving just
Uruguay. Europe, which looked lost after former title holders
France, England and Italy were eliminated, got both finalists.  
 Last night’s match began after an hour-long closing
ceremony that culminated with an appearance from former South
African president  Nelson Mandela .  
 Chants of “Madiba, Madiba,” rang out as the 91-year-old
Mandela, wearing a furry black hat, waved to the crowd of 84,490
as he was driven across the field on a buggy. He met with soccer
officials including FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  before exiting
through the players’ tunnel.  
 Fabio Cannavaro , who led Italy to the 2006 title, then
carried the World Cup out onto the pitch before raising the
trophy aloft in the center circle.  
 With the two teams waiting in the tunnel, a man wearing a
T-shirt with an anti-racism slogan ran across the pitch and put
what appeared to be a red hat on the World Cup. Several security
men wrestled him to the ground and carried him off.  
 Chances  
 The first chance of the match came in the fifth minute and
was the closest either team got to scoring in the opening 45
minutes. Netherlands goalkeeper  Maarten Stekelenburg  dived to
his right to stop a header from  Sergio Ramos , who met Xavi’s
free kick near the penalty spot.  
 Referee  Howard Webb  produced five yellow cards in the first
half, more than the combined number of shots the teams had on
target. Spain goalkeeper  Iker Casillas  was forced to tip the
ball over in the 33rd minute when  Wesley Sneijder’s  pass, played
back for the goalkeeper to restart play, kicked up off the turf.  
 Webb brandished two more yellow cards in the first 12
minutes after the break, lifting the tally to seven, passing the
previous record of six shown in the 1986 championship match.  
 The Netherlands had the first two scoring chances of the
second half. Heitinga headed Sneijder’s free kick past the
goalpost and Casillas saved from  Arjen Robben  with his legs when
the Dutch forward was clear on goal.  
 Robben Chance  
 Spain’s  David Villa  then had two shots that were blocked
and Ramos headed over from 12 yards in the 77th minute. Robben
went clear on goal six minutes later after holding off  Carles Puyol  and Casillas raced out to gather the ball, ensuring the
teams were tied 0-0 after 90 minutes.  
 Cesc Fabregas had two chances for Spain in the first extra
period before Heitinga was sent off for his second yellow card
with 11 minutes remaining following a foul on Iniesta just
outside the penalty area.  
 With the match heading for a penalty shootout, Iniesta won
it for his team with four minutes remaining when he volleyed
past Stekelenburg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  at Soccer City, Johannesburg, at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Andres Iniesta of Spain celebrates after his goal. Photographer: Lars Baron/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Supporters of the Spanish team wait for the start of the World Cup final football match Spain against Netherlands in Pamplona. Photographer: Rafa Rivas/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Iker Casillas of Spain catches the ball ahead of Robin Van Persie of the Netherlands as Carles Puyol of Spain falls to the ground. Photographer: Lars Baron/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Wesley Sneijder of the Netherlands  
                       
                         
                           Lars Baron/Getty Images 
                         
                         Referee Howard Webb issues Wesley Sneijder  of the Netherlands a yellow card. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Referee Howard Webb issues Wesley Sneijder  of the Netherlands a yellow card. Photographer: Lars Baron/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     David Villa of Spain lifts the World Cup trophy as photographers clamour. Photographer: Jasper Juinen/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Spain team celebrate victory with the World Cup trophy  
                       
                         
                           Jasper Juinen/Getty Images 
                         
                         Iker Casillas, captain of Spain, and the Spain team celebrate victory with the World Cup trophy. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Iker Casillas, captain of Spain, and the Spain team celebrate victory with the World Cup trophy. Photographer: Jasper Juinen/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Spanish team celebrate as they lift the World Cup. Photographer: Jamie McDonald/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Former South African President Nelson Mandela and his wife Graca Machel greet fans before the 2010 World Cup football final. Photographer: Thomas Coex/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
