-- States Can't Count on Federal Bailout, Obama Appointees Say
-- Michael McDonald
-- 2010-07-12T18:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/states-can-t-count-on-more-federal-bailout-money-bowles-tells-governors.html

          
          
             States can’t count on the federal
government for more budget bailouts, the heads of President
 Barack Obama’s  debt commission told governors.  
 States expecting Congress to authorize more assistance are
“going to be left with a very large hole to fill,” said
 Erskine Bowles , co-chairman of the National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform. States including New York and
California have urged Congress to extend stimulus spending
authorized to combat the recession, including extra Medicaid
funding and money to pay public school teachers.  
 “I don’t think we can count on the federal government
again,” Bowles, White House chief of staff under former
President  Bill Clinton , said yesterday at the  National Governors
Association  meeting in Boston. “They just do not have the
financial resources.”  
 While the economy has been expanding, states have yet to
recover from the longest recession since the Great Depression.
The rout cut into tax collections and led them to raise taxes
and slash spending on schools, social services and other
expenses. States have projected total budget deficits of $127
billion through 2012, according to a  report  last month by the
governors association and the National Association of State
Budget Officers.  
 Call for Help  
 The governors of  New York ,  Pennsylvania  and Michigan on
June 30 led states pressing Congress to extend higher financing
for Medicaid, the health-care program for the poor whose use
surged during the economic crisis.  
 David Paterson  of New York,  Edward Rendell  of Pennsylvania
and  Jennifer Granholm  of Michigan and three other governors, all
Democrats, traveled to Washington to appeal for funds after the
Senate failed to approve $16 billion in extra financing for
Medicaid and extended jobless benefits. Congressional
Republicans opposed the measure’s cost.  
 “We need more help from Washington to protect against job
cuts and health-care cuts,” Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn , a
Democrat, said on July 10 at the Boston gathering. “If we don’t
do that, we’re following  Herbert Hoover  economics.”  
 Earlier this year, 47 Republican and Democratic governors
 urged Congressional  leaders to extend the Medicaid help, signing
a letter asking for a six-month extension. Fewer are demanding a
bailout now because the stimulus is unpopular, West Virginia
Governor  Joe Manchin  said in an interview yesterday.  
 “People are concerned that the amount of debt we’ve
incurred hasn’t really stimulated the economy,” said Manchin, a
Democrat.  
 Recommendations Due  
 Forty-three percent of voters think the American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act hurt the economy while 29 percent think it
helped, according to a national telephone survey of 1,000 likely
voters conducted July 1 by  Rasmussen Reports , which has a margin
of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  
 After championing deficit spending to counter the economic
downturn, Obama this year formed a commission to recommend ways
to reduce the federal debt, which is projected to reach 90
percent of the U.S. economy by 2020. The panel’s recommendations
are due Dec. 1, after the midterm elections in November.  
 Former Republican Senator  Alan Simpson  of Wyoming, the
panel’s other co-chairman, told governors yesterday that the
depth of the federal government’s spending imbalance is
“shocking,” which limits the help it can provide for strained
state budgets.  
 “The pig is dead,” said Simpson, referring to so-called
pork-barrel spending that Congress directs to states. “There’s
no more bacon.”  
 Tax Collections Drop  
 State fiscal woes will be “just as tough” next year
because the economy is on pace to grow at a “lackluster” rate
of about 3 percent a year,  Yolanda Kodrzycki , an economist at
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, told governors July 10 at
the gathering. The budget pressure will be compounded by the
need to help cities and towns faced with a drop in property-tax
collections, she said.  
 Property-tax collections fell in the first quarter for the
first time since the onset of the real-estate market’s crash, to
$107.7 billion from $108.4 billion a year earlier, the Census
Bureau  said  on June 29.  
 South Carolina Governor  Mark Sanford  said the “worst is
yet to come” for the states because the economy is bound to
fall back into a recession as government spending contracts both
in the U.S. and elsewhere.  
 Kodrzycki said researchers at the Fed have become “much
more sensitive” to the prospect of a so-called double-dip
recession. She said the economy needs to grow at an annual
average rate of about 4 percent in order for the unemployment
rate to fall back to 5 percent by 2015.  
 “The road to economic recovery is a long one,” she said.
“It’s a sobering picture.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Co-chairman of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform Erskine Bowles.Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Maine Governor John Baldacci talks about the state's finances and budget issues.
     Baldacci speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
