-- U.K.'s $2.3 Billion High-Speed Rail Auction `Not a Fire Sale,' Vendor Says
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-07-12T08:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/u-k-s-2-3-billion-high-speed-rail-auction-not-a-fire-sale-vendor-says.html

          
          
             Britain’s high-speed rail link to
the Channel Tunnel will be kept under state control if no buyer
is willing to match the 1.5 billion-pound ($2.3 billion) asking
price, according to the company that’s in charge of the sale.  
 Government-backed owner  London & Continental Railways  will
draw up a shortlist of bids this month, spokesman  Ben Ruse  said
in an interview. While interest for the 68-mile (109 kilometer)
 High Speed 1  line from London’s St. Pancras International
station to the tunnel portal at Folkestone has been “strong,”
not all approaches have been from credible bidders, he said.  
 Britain’s new coalition government is seeking to sell a 30-
year concession to run the line as part of an asset-disposal
program aimed at paying down a 155 billion-pound budget deficit.
Airport operator BAA Ltd. was last year forced by regulators to
sell London Gatwick airport for less than its target price in
Europe’s most recent auction of a marquee infrastructure asset.  
 “This is not a fire sale,” Ruse said. “Our overall
objective is to realize value for money for the U.K. taxpayer.
Unless this can be achieved, we will not sell the asset.”  
 To ensure that funds are available, London & Continental
has arranged a so-called stapled-finance package with banks that
would be willing to lend to the final buyer, said Ruse. While
approaches have been received from dozens of interested parties,
the most competitive are likely be in the form of “consortium
bids” that may include infrastructure funds, he said.  
 Eurotunnel, Macquarie  
 Groupe Eurotunnel SA, which operates the Channel Tunnel,
said on June 21 that it’s likely to bid for the high-speed line
in a group including its biggest shareholder, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s infrastructure fund. Ruse identified  Macquarie
Group Ltd. , Australia’s largest investment bank and the owner of
Britain’s M6 Toll motorway, as another possible buyer.  
 “The timing of the sale is fortunate for HS1 because at
the moment there are not a lot of other projects out there that
are catching the attention of bidders,” Ruse said.  
 Douglas McNeill , an analyst at Charles Stanley Securities
in London, said raising cash may still be an issue for buyers.  
 “There are quite a few funds around, but there isn’t much
debt financing and infrastructure projects are financed by debt,
so interest may be rather lackluster,” McNeill said.  
 Bid Requirements  
 Among requirements detailed in a questionnaire sent to
potential bidders by UBS AG, which is advising on the disposal,
are experience in running infrastructure, completion of a
purchase in the year ending March 31 or soon after, and the
ability to invest at least 25 million pounds of equity.  
 BAA, a unit of Spanish builder Ferrovial SA, sold Gatwick
airport to Global Infrastructure Partners for 1.51 billion
pounds in December as bidders struggled to raise cash following
the credit crunch even with stapled financing. BAA had sought a
“significant premium” to a 1.64 billion-pound paper valuation.  
 HS1, used by Eurostar Group Ltd. services between London,
Paris and Brussels, Hitachi Ltd. “Javelin” commuter trains and
freight operators, makes about 250 million pounds a year in
access charges but has 35 percent of its total capacity unused.  
 That’s enough to allow a rival operator to run tunnel
services competing with Eurostar, Ruse said. Deutsche Bahn AG,
Germany’s state-owned railroad, has said it’s interested in
gaining access to the route.  
 The winner of the auction will also get the concession to
run St. Pancras station and terminals at Stratford, Ebbsfleet
and Ashford, east of London.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Eurostar train enters the Eurotunnel. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
