-- U.K. Profit Warnings to Climb as Budget Squeeze Hits Economy, E&Y Says
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-07-11T11:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/u-k-profit-warnings-to-climb-as-budget-squeeze-hits-economy-e-y-says.html

          
          
             The number of U.K. companies missing
sales and earnings targets may increase as the government’s
spending cuts to reduce the budget deficit hit the “fragile”
recovery, Ernst & Young said.  
 While the number of companies issuing profit warnings fell
to 45 in the second quarter, the lowest in seven years, from 54
in the previous three months, warnings may increase later this
year, Ernst & Young said in a  report  released in London today.  
 “The crunch year is 2011,” Ernst & Young said. “It is
then that the first major wave of fiscal tightening will
probably coincide with the first rises in interest rates. It’s
then that we’ll find out how strong the recovery really is.”  
 The Bank of England kept its  bond-stimulus plan  in place
and left its benchmark interest  rate  at a record low this month
to sustain the economic recovery during the U.K.’s biggest
budget squeeze since World War II. With the fiscal consolidation
threatening to curb activity, the International Monetary Fund
this week cut its growth outlook for the U.K. through 2011.  
 U.K.  economic expansion  slowed to 0.3 percent in the first
quarter from 0.4 percent in the last three months of 2009, when
Britain exited the recession. Growth accelerated to 0.7 percent
in the second quarter, the National Institute of Economic and
Social Research said July 9.  
 Still, the institute, whose clients include the Bank of
England and the U.K. Treasury, also said the economy faces
“headwinds” from fiscal consolidation at home and in the euro
area, and there is “clearly a risk that this rate of growth
will not be maintained through the rest of this year.”  
 Cancellations  
 The Office for National Statistics will publish its third
estimate for first-quarter gross domestic product at 9:30 a.m.
tomorrow and is scheduled to release its preliminary estimate
for second-quarter GDP on July 23.  
 Contract amendments or cancellations were the main reasons
companies cited for profit warnings in the second quarter, Ernst
& Young said. Almost 33 percent of companies blamed contract
issues, up from 17 percent a year earlier. The percentage citing
trading conditions fell to 22 percent from 46 percent a year
earlier.  
 Companies in the travel and leisure industry had the
largest number of warnings in the second quarter, followed by
support-service firms, Ernst & Young said. General retailers and
businesses in the construction and building-material and
software and computer-service markets had the next highest level
of warnings, the report showed.  
 “Many companies are now enjoying a trading uplift,”  Alan Hudson , a partner at Ernst & Young, said in the report.
“However, given the potential challenges to growth in the year
ahead, companies will need to manage costs and expectations
carefully to mitigate a potential stall or stutter in 2011.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        