-- U.K.'s Renewable Energy Policy Threatens Thousands of Jobs, Civitas Says
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-07-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/u-k-s-renewable-energy-policy-threatens-thousands-of-jobs-civitas-says.html

          
          
             Thousands of U.K. manufacturing jobs
are threatened by the government’s drive to slash carbon dioxide
emissions and boost renewable power, London-based policy analyst
Civitas said in a report.  
 Green energy policies have already boosted energy bills to
businesses by 21 percent, a figure that could rise to 70 percent
by 2020, the group said today. That endangers jobs in industries
such as steel, cement, chemicals, paper, ceramics and plastics,
according to  Jeremy Nicholson , a co-author of the 35-page study.  
 “If we do not see reform of energy and climate legislation
a whole swathe of businesses will not be able to operate
competitively in the U.K.,” Nicholson said in a telephone
interview. “The only question is how long it takes for their
closure to result.”  
 The U.K. is trying to spur renewable power in order to meet
a European Union target of deriving 15 percent of energy use
from clean sources by 2020. The country has also passed a law
requiring it to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 34 percent in
the three decades through 2020.  
 Companies such as Ineos Group Holdings, which in Runcorn,
England has the second largest facility in Europe for extracting
chlorine from brine, could find it economically unviable to
operate in Britain if electricity prices rise, according to the
report. It said that within 10 years, 46,000 jobs in the U.K.
chemical industry are under threat. A further 87,000 jobs
dependent on the industry would also be in danger, it said.  
 Jobs at Risk  
 Even more jobs are threatened if other industries, such as
steel, plastics, ceramics, paper and cement are included,
according to Nicholson.  
 “Across those industries we’re talking about approximately
a quarter of a million jobs,” he said.  
 The authors didn’t make any policy recommendations in the
report, though Nicholson said measures could be taken to
alleviate the costs for electricity-intensive manufacturers,
including reduced rates of energy tax, and allowing the energy
industry to decide the best way to achieve targets, rather than
incentivizing specific technologies, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        