-- Hunting for London's Best, Weirdest Martinis
-- Richard Vines
-- 2010-07-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/hunting-for-london-s-finest-weirdest-martinis-richard-vines.html

          
          
             Nick Strangeway  sips from a chilled
glass, strokes his goatee beard and looks thoughtful.  
 “This is an afternoon-of-several-Martinis sort of Martini,
not a one-Martini-only Martini,” he says, and sips again.  
 Strangeway, 42, won the Tales of the Cocktail award for
World’s Best Bartender in New Orleans in 2008. He’s the man
behind London bars such as Hix and Hawksmoor. He travels the
world for  Sixth Senses  Resorts & Spas and his consulting
company,  Strangehill , works with Jameson, Beefeater and
Wyborowa.  
 Who better to lead the hunt for London’s finest Martini?
For practical reasons we confine ourselves to a short list of
six venues and set out with a Bloomberg Television camera.  
 Pinchito (7 out of 10 points): Tobias Blazquez-Garcia, a
native of Ibiza, employs the throwing technique: mixing the
drink by pouring the liquid at arm’s length from one glass to
another. Throwing -- which was developed in Cuba and reached the
U.K. via Spain -- is somewhere between shaking and stirring.
Apart from its visual appeal, throwing aerates the Martini,
giving it a light texture.  
 “I love it,” Strangeway says. “It’s a Martini that’s a
great aperitif. It’s an aperitif that you could have as an
aperitif to an aperitif, so you could have a couple of them at
least and it’s a great pre-dinner drink.”  
 Redhook (6.5/10): Tim Philips, an Australian mixologist,
makes a vodka Martini in the early-20th-century style of the
Delmonico Hotel, using orange bitters and  Grey Goose . He says
it’s important to allow the drink to rest, like a steak. His
innovation is to serve it with a twist of cucumber. Strangeway’s
main reservation is that he prefers gin Martinis.  
 “It’s got a lovely flavor. You wouldn’t expect a cucumber
to add so much flavor. It’s a very nice afternoon drink. I could
have more than a couple of those on an afternoon. I could have a
couple of those right now so be careful. I might drink yours.”  
 69 Colebrooke Row (9.5/10): This is the bar of  Tony
Conigliaro , a friend of Strangeway who is famed among cocktail
fans for his private laboratory and for concoctions that owe
more to  Heston Blumenthal  than  Johnnie Walker . Conigliaro adds
an essence of grape seeds, which he says are high in tannins and
polyphenols. These create a dryness on the tongue that tells the
brain to produce saliva, improving the taste. His aim is to
create a loop of flavor within the drink.  
 “That’s Martini nirvana isn’t it?” Strangeway says.
“It’s interesting that someone has tried to make the perfect
Martini from a scientific angle. It’s long and it’s full
flavored. You get all the flavors of all the botanicals in the
gin, you get the botanicals in the vermouth and yet it’s still
dry. That’s how I like my Martini.”  
 Purl  (8.5/10): If Conigliaro’s a drinks alchemist,  Tristan
Stephenson  is more Harry Potter. Dry ice drifts across his new
basement bar in Marylebone as he prepares a Martini using liquid
nitrogen. There’s a touch of  Michael Jackson , too, as he dons a
single glove and stirs the Tanqueray Ten gin with a temperature
probe. The aim of the freezing is to suppress the alcohol and to
release the spicy botanicals. He uses an atomizer to spray the
glasses with vermouth and garnishes with spheres of
reconstituted olives. The Martini is as viscous as a BP slick.  
 “It’s very full-flavored and you get this huge richness
coming through,” Strangeway says. “It’s very, very full
bodied. This is another example where somebody has taken
something from the kitchen and brought it into the bar. That’s
the way things have to advance: taking advantage of everything
that’s available to us. I love the use of the technology and I
love the use of the innovation but I like more dilution.”  
 Connaught Bar  (8.5/10): The Connaught is known for its
Martini trolley, where drinkers are offered a choice of bitters.
Strangeway went for lavender and I for cardamom as Agostino
Perrone mixed our drinks. Strangeway is impressed.  
 “I love the style of the place,” he says. “I love the
theater of the trolley coming toward us, the choice of the
different bitters. It’s a lovely balanced drink as well. It’s
not too heavy, very subtle. I’m very glad we made this on our
Martini pilgrimage. It’s a different style of theater, more
classical, but the drink is lovely by its dilution.”  
 Dukes Bar  (9.5/10): Dukes Bar is reckoned to be the place
where  Ian Fleming  created the classic James Bond line, “Shaken
not stirred.” It’s a destination for lovers of the classic
Martini and there’s no shortage of customers sitting at tables,
whispering as they patiently wait for their favorite cocktail.
It’s a world away from the Spartan chic of 69 Colebrooke Row or
the subterranean intrigue of Purl. Strangeway loves it. As at
the Connaught, there’s no question of filming indoors, so we
head outside into the rain, tottering down the steps and growing
increasingly emotional after an afternoon of Martinis.  
 Last Wish  
 “Dukes is the British ancestral home of the Martini,”
Strangeway says. “This, for me, is Martini heaven. When you go
into a great bar that has been here for a long time, you feel
the atmosphere seep out of the woodwork and out of the paintwork
and therefore the drinks are affected by the history,”
Strangeway says. “If I could have one last drink on earth I’d
come here and I’d have a lovely little Italian gentleman come
and wheel that trolley out and I’d have him make me a Martini as
he did for us. What a great way to go.  
 “What’s in this glass is not just the liquor, it is the
history of a Martini, the history of the Martini in London and
therefore based on that, and the quality of the drink, I would
score this equal to Tony’s most wonderful Martini.”  
 Pinchito, 32 Featherstone Street, London, EC1Y 8QX.
Redhook, 89-90 Turnmill Street, EC1M 5QU. 69 Colebrooke Row, N1
8AA. Purl, 50-54 Blandford Street, W1U 7HX. Connaught Bar,
Carlos Place, W1K 2AL; Dukes Hotel, St James’ Place, SW1A 1NY.  
 ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tobias Blazquez-Garcia at Pinchito in London. The Ibiza native employs the throwing, not stirred, technique to make martinis. Source: Bloomberg Television  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Richard Vines reports on his search for the best martini in London.
     Vines speaks with Nick Strangeway, a mixologist named best bartender in London by Time Out magazine. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Tony Conigliaro in London. He is known for his scientifically made martinis at 69 Colebrooke Row. Source: Bloomberg Television  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
