-- Uranium Bottoming as China Buys Supplies From Cameco
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T20:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/uranium-bottoming-as-china-boosts-stockpiles-with-10-000-tons-from-cameco.html

          
          
               China  is buying unprecedented
amounts of uranium, signaling that prices are poised to rebound
after three years of declines.  
 The nation may purchase about 5,000 metric tons this year,
more than twice as much as it consumes, building stockpiles for
new reactors, according to Thomas Neff, a physicist and uranium-
industry analyst at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in
Cambridge. Prices will jump by about 32 percent next year, the
most since 2006,  RBC Capital Markets  said.  
 India and China are leading the biggest atomic expansion
since the decade after the 1970s oil crisis to cut pollution and
power economies growing more than twice as fast as  Europe  and  North America . The boom, combined with slowing supply growth,
may benefit  Cameco Corp ., a co-owner of  the world’s largest
uranium mine, and  Areva SA , the largest builder of reactors.  
 “China’s demand is insatiable,” said Dave Dai, an analyst
at the Daiwa Institute of Research in Hong Kong. “They will
have to take almost whatever is available.”  
 Uranium will climb to an average $55 a pound next year as
demand erodes supplies, according to Adam Schatzker, a metals
analyst at RBC in Toronto. Max Layton, at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in
London, forecasts it will climb to $56.25 next year and $60 in
five years.  
 Uranium for immediate delivery was at $41.75 a pound on
July 5, according to the Ux Consulting Co. weekly price
assessment. Spot trades of uranium oxide totaled 20.9 million
pounds this year, about $873 million in today’s prices, Roswell,
Georgia-based Ux Consulting said.  
 Price Slump  
 Uranium has tumbled 69 percent since peaking at $136 a
pound in July 2007 as companies boosted production, according to
the firm’s data. At least 27 mines in nine countries began
operating in the past 10 years, adding as much as 65 million
pounds a year to global output, according to Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based Cameco, part owner of McArthur River mine in  Canada , the world’s largest deposit of high-grade uranium. Six
mines are scheduled to start in 2010.  
 “The uranium bull market of 2006 and 2007 stimulated the
development of new supply, but we do not think it is enough,”
Schatzker wrote in a report. “The prevailing uranium price is
too low to stimulate sufficient supply to cover future reactor
requirements.”  
 The cost of mining one pound of uranium is about $31, up
from $26 in 2007, according to Edward Sterck, an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets in London.  
 ‘Stockpiling Like Crazy’  
 China’s demand for uranium may rise to 20,000 tons a year
by 2020, more than a third of the 50,572 tons mined globally
last year, as it boosts output to 85 gigawatts, nine times its
current capacity, according to the  World Nuclear Association .
The nation agreed on June 24 to buy more than 10,000 tons over
10 years from Cameco.  
   India ’s needs will grow 10-fold to 8,000 tons as it
quadruples capacity to 20 gigawatts, according to Jagdeep Ghai,
finance director at state-owned Nuclear Power Corp.  
 “They are essentially stockpiling in anticipation of new
reactor build,” Neff, who is an independent director of GoviEx
Uranium Inc., a privately held exploration company with
interests in Niger, said in a July 6 telephone interview. “They
are stockpiling like crazy.”  
 China plans at least 60 new reactors by 2020, Xu Yuming,
executive director of the China Nuclear Energy Association, said
in Beijing on July 6. The average 1,000-megawatt reactor costs
about $3 billion, according to the World Nuclear Association.
Loading a new reactor requires about 400 tons of uranium to
start, Neff said.  
 Areva, Cameco, Paladin  
 China’s economy may grow 10.1 percent this year, while
India’s expands 8.6 percent, according to analysts’ forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. gross domestic product will increase
3.1 percent and Europe’s will grow 1.1 percent.  
 Companies that build reactors may be among the biggest
beneficiaries. Areva’s shares have tumbled 53 percent in the
past three years. Miners including Cameco, whose stock has
fallen 60 percent since then,  Paladin Energy Ltd ., which has
lost 63 percent, and Darwin-based  Energy Resources of Australia
Ltd ., which is down 25 percent, may also benefit.  
 Cameco advanced 4.9 percent in Toronto. Energy Resources
jumped 3.4 percent in Sydney, while Perth, Australia-based
Paladin gained 2.2 percent. Areva slid 1.9 percent in Paris.  
 “Longer-term it does look as though there’s going to be a
shortfall of uranium and ERA and Paladin should benefit from
higher prices if that plays out,” said  Lyndon Fagan , a Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc analyst in Sydney.  
 Cutting Pollution  
 Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao aims to cut pollution by
reducing energy consumption 20 percent in the five years through
2010. The country pumped 6.5 billion tons of carbon dioxide into
the atmosphere last year, U.S. Department of Energy data show,
more than any other nation. Atomic plants produce virtually no
greenhouse gases, though spent fuel remains radioactive for
thousands of years and requires re-processing and storage.  
 China National Nuclear Corp., the nation’s first operator
of reactors, said on June 28 it’s exploring for the fuel in
Niger, Namibia, Zimbabwe and  Mongolia .  
 “We’re just beginning to see the initial stages of China
going abroad to buy stakes in uranium mines, but this is a trend
we’re going to see more and more in the future,” said Stephen Kidd, head of strategy and research at the World Nuclear
Association in  London .  
 Growing uranium use may create a shortfall by the second
half of this decade because not enough new production is
planned, according to Friedel Aul, director of fuel services at
Nukem Gmbh, an Alzenau, Germany-based uranium trader and broker.  
 Slowing Production  
 “Current production is based on mines that have been in
operation for a long, long time,” he said. “With startup
costs, certainly to bring a mine on line today is much more
expensive than it was 10, 15 years ago.”  
 Production growth, including supplies recycled from Russian
warheads under an agreement ending in 2013, may slow to 4.8
percent this year and 3.4 percent in 2011, according to RBC. It
increased almost 12 percent last year.  
 The last time this many reactors were planned was in the
1980s, after the 1973 and 1979 oil shocks prompted the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to boost prices
for crude. By 2015, a new reactor may start every five days,
compared with an average of one every 17 days during the 1980s,
according to the  World Nuclear Association .  
 ‘Speculative Interest’  
 Commissioning new plants is a “game-changer” for uranium,
said  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at  Australia  and
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Melbourne . Though many won’t
come on line for as long as two years, “speculative interest”
may drive prices to the “$60 to $80 range pretty quickly.”  
 Prices may recover as demand improves, said Dustin Garrow,
a Denver-based executive general manager of marketing for
Paladin, the world’s ninth-largest uranium producer.  
 “We see demand picking up noticeably and it is not just
the Chinese, there are other utility consumers that are now
showing interest,” Garrow said in a July 6 interview. “We
could start to see fairly substantial price increases in the
spot market later this year.”  
 --  Wang Ying  in Beijing, John Duce in  Hong Kong  and Anna Stablum
in London. With assistance from Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai,
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver , Ryan Woo in  Singapore  andBen Sharples in Melbourne. Editors: Clyde Russell, Justin Carrigan  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Wang Ying in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao aims to cut pollution by reducing energy consumption 20 percent in the five years through 2010. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Uranium pellets cool in a tray after passing through a furnace inside the Ulba Metallurgical Plant in Ust-Kamenogorsk, Kazakhstan. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
