-- World Cup Success Is Giant Step Forward for Africa: Thabo Mbeki
-- Thabo Mbeki
-- 2010-07-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/world-cup-success-is-leap-forward-for-africans-commentary-by-thabo-mbeki.html

          
          
             For a few minutes on July 6, 2000,
time stood still for many in South Africa, Africa and the
African diaspora.  
 Encouraged by  the report  of the FIFA Inspection Group that
Germany and South Africa were both “very well qualified” to
host the tournament, these millions awaited the important
decision from Switzerland that South Africa would host the 2006
Soccer World Cup.  
 This was not to be. Rather than vote for South Africa
during the last round, as directed by his region,  Charles Dempsey  from Oceania decided to abstain and thereby, by that one
vote, tilted the balance in favor of Germany.  
 This outcome confirmed exactly what we sought to bring to
an end -- the confinement of Africa and the Africans to the
periphery of human society as unequal members of the human race.  
 By 2006, Europe, North and South America and Asia would
have hosted the Soccer World Cup. The decision in Zurich in 2000
meant that Africa would continue to be excluded from this
company,  left in the cold  as the orphan among the continents.  
 This communicated the dehumanizing view that the rest of
the world continued to see Africa as “the hopeless continent,”
incapable of taking its rightful place in the ordering of human
affairs.  
 Demeaning Stereotype  
 We were convinced that were we to win the right to host the
Soccer World Cup, this would make a decisive contribution to the
achievement of the goal of vital importance to all Africans, of
destroying the demeaning stereotype of a hopeless continent.  
 South Africa had to wait for  four years  for the decision it
had expected in 2000 that it could host the Soccer World Cup.  
 When we presented our bid to host the 2010 World Cup to the
 FIFA Executive Committee  on May 14, 2004, I said the millions of
Africans on the continent and the African diaspora had
“embarked on an exciting human journey. This is a journey away
from a history of conflict, repression and endemic poverty.”  
 Through the 2001 decision to rotate the hosting of the
World Cup among the continents to give Africa a chance, “you
conveyed the message to all Africans, both on the continent and
the African diaspora, that you are ready and willing to
accompany us on our journey of hope, and give us the strength
and stamina we need to traverse the difficult terrain that
separates us from Africa’s renaissance,” I said at the time.  
 During the years we fought to defeat the apartheid system,
Africa and the Africans united to assist us to achieve victory.
Our liberation in 1994 opened the way for the African continent
to focus on the vital task of improving the quality of life of
millions of Africans, and thus free Africa from its subservient
status as an object of global pity and charity.  
 Equal Members  
 In this context, we were determined that South Africa
should use such capacity as it had to help all Africans,
including ourselves, to regain our dignity as equal members of
human society. We were convinced that the possibility to host
the Soccer World Cup offered Africa and the Africans a golden
opportunity to help achieve this objective.  
 South Africa and Africa have now hosted an eminently
successful 2010 Soccer World Cup. The Afro-pessimists who
thought we would fail because we are “the hopeless continent”
have been proven wrong.  
 A giant step forward has been taken toward achieving the
goal of destroying the age-old negative stereotype of Africa and
the Africans. Similarly, as Africans we have also made an
important statement to ourselves that we are as capable as any
in the world to organize for success that brings a sense of
fulfillment to billions.  
 For us, our success in hosting the FIFA 2010 Soccer World
Cup means Africa is well poised to continue its advance towards
its renaissance, hopefully supported by the rest of humanity,
acting as partners for Africa’s renewal.  
 Africa must therefore proceed from the 2010 playing fields
to claim the 21st century and liberate itself from the
accumulated weight of centuries of the denial of human dignity.  
 ( Thabo Mbeki  was the president of South Africa from 1999
until 2008. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Thabo Mbeki at  mukonit@gmail.com   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       World Cup success giant step for South Africa: Thabo Mbeki  
                       
                         
                           Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Former President of South Africa Thabo Mbeki. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Former President of South Africa Thabo Mbeki. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
