-- Tycoon Ivanov Vies Faberge, Boosts $2 Billion Museum Collection
-- John Varoli
-- 2010-07-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/tycoon-ivanov-vies-faberge-boosts-2-billion-museum-collection.html

          
          
             The man who bought the world’s most
expensive egg is defying setbacks by thinking ever bigger.  
 Russian billionaire  Alexander Ivanov , who paid $17.7
million for the Faberge egg in 2007, says he has spent 90
million euros ($107.8 million) more in the last year alone to
add 100 items to a 3,000-strong collection worth $2 billion.  
 Ivanov, 46, first wanted to display the collection by the
Russian czarist-era jeweler in Moscow until he faced a battle
with bureaucracy and high building costs. He switched the
display to the western German resort of Baden Baden and got into
a legal fight with Faberge Ltd. over the name Faberge Museum.
Now he is developing the German site and plans another in
Croatia.  
 “We’re increasing the collection with new acquisitions,
and need more space,” Ivanov says in an interview. “We’re a
business. We’re creating a business model where museums can be
profitable.”  
 Faberge was founded in St. Petersburg in 1842, and it was
an official supplier to the Russian Imperial court from 1885 to
1917. The company’s artworks became popular in the 1960s with
Western collectors, led by  Malcolm Forbes . Prices rose to
records as Russians such as Ivanov started investing in status-
symbol artworks that represent their country’s heritage.  
 Ivanov’s latest purchases include a 27-inch high silver
clock given to Russian Emperor Alexander III and his wife by
relatives in 1891 for their 25th wedding anniversary. He
wouldn’t say how much he paid. He has also continued snapping up
Faberge semi-precious stone figurines and gold jewelry.  
 Rothschild Egg  
 His biggest purchase was the 1902 Faberge egg made as an
engagement gift to Baron Edouard de Rothschild. Ivanov bought it
at  Christie’s International  in London on Nov. 28, 2007, for 9
million pounds ($18.5 million at the time), and says it’s
Faberge’s “finest ever.” The gold and pink enamel egg has a
clock and a diamond-set cockerel that pops up every hour and
flaps its wings.  
 Ivanov settled on the spa town of Baden Baden, with a
population of 55,000, because it has 8 million visitors a year
and historically has been popular with Russians. In the 19th
century, prominent visitors included writer  Fyodor Dostoyevsky 
and members of the Russian royal family.  
 Moscow State University law graduate Ivanov said he began
collecting Faberge in the late 1980s and made his first $1
million dollars by importing computers.  
 Cartier, Cars  
 His Germany museum opened in May 2009 and displays more
than 600 items. Most are Faberge, and there are items by other
jewelers such as Cartier. A new wing will add more than 600
meters of exhibition space for European Old Master paintings and
pre-Columbian jewelry from Peru. More than 2,000 square meters
(21,527 square feet) are set aside for vintage cars.  
 The second branch will be in Dubrovnik.  
 “Dubrovnik is a beautiful medieval city with about 5
million visitors a year,” says the soft-spoken and well-built
Ivanov, dressed in a suit with no tie. “It has no world-class
museum; we want to change that. We see Dubrovnik as a great
opportunity.”  
 Ivanov’s collection is called the Russian National Museum.
While it doesn’t have its own space (the Baden Baden museum is
part of the  Russian National Museum ; it displays part of that
collection), selected items have been shown at exhibitions in
Russia and abroad, and some can be seen at  http://www.rnm.ru .  
 In its first 12 months, the Faberge Museum in Baden Baden
made a profit of about 500,000 euros, compared with an expected
profit of 1 million euros to 1.5 million euros, says Ivanov. He
had expected a million visitors a year at 10 euros a head, he
says.  
 Court Case  
 In April 2009, Faberge Ltd. started court action.  
 “‘Faberge Museum’ is a registered European trademark which
belongs to Faberge Ltd.,” Sean Gilbertson, a Faberge Ltd. board
member, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “Our first year was difficult due to the Faberge trademark
court case, which consumed much energy and time,” says Ivanov.
“At first we couldn’t use the Faberge name, which meant no
advertising or even a sign on the door.” After a January court
hearing, Baden Baden is plastered with posters advertising the
Faberge Museum.  
 Faberge Ltd. said it plans to pursue its case, though it
hopes to reach an amicable agreement.  
 “From the outset,” said Gilbertson, “we’ve been willing
to make a fair and reasonable deal recognizing that the
trademark belongs to us but that allows the museum to continue
their business, including duly permitted use of the Faberge
name.”  
 “If a deal cannot be reached we will not stand idly by and
watch a registered European trademark be infringed,” said
Gilbertson. “We will not simply forget the matter.”  
 Faberge Museum GmbH, Sophienstrasse 30, 76530 Baden Baden,
Germany. Information: +49-722-1970-8900;
 http://www.fabergemuseum.de   
 ( John Varoli  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 John Varoli  in Baden Baden at  jvaroli@gmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russian billionaire Alexander Ivanov. Ivanov’s latest purchases include a 27-inch high silver clock given to Russian Emperor Alexander III and his wife in 1891 for their 25th wedding anniversary. Source: Alexander Ivanov via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Rothschild Faberge egg purchased by Alexlander Ivanov at auction. The gold and pink enamel egg has a clock and a diamond-set cockerel that pops up every hour and flaps its wings. Source: Christie's Images via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
