-- Euro Falls Against Dollar for Second Day on Renewed Sovereign-Debt Concern
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-07-12T12:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-11/yen-trades-near-3-week-low-versus-euro-on-kan-election-loss-aussie-gains.html

          
          
             The euro fell against the dollar for
a second consecutive day on speculation tests to demonstrate the
resilience of the region’s banking system will fall short of
assuring investors.  
 The dollar rose against most of its major counterparts on
renewed demand for the greenback as a refuge. Financial
ministers meet in Brussels today to discuss how much detail to
disclose as regulators examine the ability of 91 European banks
to withstand losses on sovereign-debt holdings.  
 “There is renewed uncertainty about the European stress
tests,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington at
Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.
“That’s depressing market sentiment. We’ve seen more of a
cautious tone.”  
 The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.2573 at 8:38 a.m. in New
York, from $1.2641 on July 9, when it touched $1.2722, the
highest level since May 12. The euro slipped 0.6 percent to
111.39 yen, from 112.01. The dollar was little changed at 88.60
yen, compared with 88.62.  
 The euro was also driven lower as  Der Spiegel  said a German
plan to allow the “orderly insolvency” of countries would
force bondholders to give up part of their claims. The proposal
drafted by the German Finance and Justice ministries calls for a
“Berlin Club” of nations to oversee insolvencies.  
 Holders of sovereign bonds, while taking a so-called
haircut, would be guaranteed half the bond’s face value as an
incentive to take part in debt restructuring, said Der Spiegel,
without saying where it got the information.  
 Stress Tests  
 The banks being tested account for 65 percent of Europe’s
banking industry. They include Deutsche Bank AG of Germany,
France’s BNP Paribas SA and ING Groep NV of the Netherlands,
according to the Committee of European Banking Supervisors,
which is organizing the tests. The results are due to be
published July 23.  
 The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain dropped to 38,909 on July 6, compared with
record net shorts of 113,890 on May 11, figures from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed on July 9.  
 “A lot of the oversold positions in the euro are now
gone,” said  Greg Gibbs , a foreign-exchange strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “The euro will be
vulnerable to negative news.”  
 Boon to Companies  
 Executives from Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, Volkswagen
AG’s Audi unit and Siemens AG credit the currency’s decline from
its 16-month high of $1.5144 in November for boosting
competitiveness and making revenue earned overseas worth more
when they bring it home.  
 Dissolving the euro would save the 16-nation region from
years of stagnation by boosting weaker members’ competitiveness
as well as domestic demand in Germany, Capital Economics said.  
 “The threatened breakup of the euro zone, which many see
as a potential disaster, would actually open the door to renewed
economic growth, not just for weaker members of the zone, but
for Europe as a whole,” Capital Economics analysts including
 Roger Bootle  in London said in a report released yesterday.  
 The yen dropped earlier against the dollar after Japan’s
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s party lost control of the upper house
of parliament, potentially slowing efforts to rein in the
world’s largest  public debt .  
 Outlook for Kan  
 Standard & Poor’s said  Kan ’s defeat is “potentially
negative” for Japan’s debt rating because of legislative
gridlock. Results compiled by the broadcaster NHK showed the
ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  won 44 upper-house seats in
yesterday’s election, compared with 51 for the opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party . Half the 242 seats in the less
powerful of Japan’s two houses of parliament were contested.  
 “It will be difficult for the government to push through
the necessary reforms and restructuring in the public sector and
the taxation system,”  Takahira Ogawa , director of sovereign
ratings at S&P in Singapore, said in a phone interview today.  
 Ogawa said he will watch whether the DPJ’s top officials
might change, including Kan, who is up for re-election as party
president in September. Kan said he doesn’t plan to step down.  
 Kan, who took office a month ago, stoked voter resentment
by calling for a debate on whether to raise the 5 percent sales
tax, drawing attention to a national debt that amounts to
$80,000 per person.  
 “In the short term investors are reacting to the political
situation,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in London. “If the second half of
the year turns out to be a tough one, the yen will strengthen.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), speaks during a news conference at the party's election center in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Martin Schulz, senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Japan's politics and implications for the economy.
     Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan lost control of parliament’s upper house, undermining legislative efforts to cut the world’s largest public debt and creating the possibility of a third leadership change in a year. The ruling Democratic Party of Japan won 44 seats, compared with 51 for the opposition Liberal Democratic Party, according to results compiled by public broadcaster NHK. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Jeroen van den Broek, a credit strategist at ING Groep NV, discusses the outlook for stress tests being conducted on European banks to see whether they could withstand losses if the region's debt crisis worsens.
     Van de Broek talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
