-- Best Buy aims to step up expansion in China
-- 
-- Thu Jun 21, 2007 2:04am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/21/businesspro-bestbuy-china-dc-idUSSHA28038820070621

 

 SHANGHAI  (Reuters) - Top U.S. consumer electronics retail 
chain Best Buy Co. Inc. ( BBY.N ) is speeding up its expansion in 
China, banking on robust demand in a fast-growing market that 
it entered just one year ago. 

  The company aims to open eight to 10 new stores in and 
around Shanghai over the next 18 months, far exceeding its 
earlier plan to add up to three outlets in 12 to 18 months, 
Robert Willett, chief executive of Best Buy International, told 
reporters in Shanghai.  Best Buy, which operates more than 800 stores in the United 
States and Canada, made its initial foray into China in June 
2006, taking a 75 percent stake in the country's third-largest 
consumer electronics retailer, Jiangsu Five Star Appliance Co., 
a major player in the affluent eastern coast.  The U.S. company opened its first own-brand China outlet in 
Shanghai's upscale Xujiahui district three months later, 
selling its Magnolia home theatres, Gourmet Shop kitchen 
products and Geek Squad computer support services along with 
other brands.  "The store is doing incredibly well," Willett said. "To say 
that it exceeded our expectations would be an understatement.  The U.S. company is adopting a sales strategy that has 
proven successful in North America, where sales personnel work 
on a non-commission basis to guarantee unbiased advice.  Sales staff in Chinese retail chains such as GOME 
Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. ( 0493.HK ) and Suning 
Appliance Co. Ltd. ( 002024.SZ ) generally work on commission for 
various brands.  Willet said he was very encouraged by customer reaction so 
far but the firm had much to learn to better adapt to the 
Chinese market.
  CAUTIOUS APPROACH  Best Buy, which competes with Circuit City Stores Inc. 
CC.N on its home turf in North America, is the first foreign 
retailer to gain a foothold in China's $100 billion a year 
consumer electronics market, which is growing at double-digit 
rates.  It faces tough competition from market leaders GOME and 
Suning, which are rapidly expanding.  GOME, China's top electronics retailer, merged with China 
Paradise Electronics last year and plans to open 170 new stores 
this year.  Number-two player Suning plans to add 180 to 200 outlets 
every year through 2010, its chief executive Sun Weimin said in 
September.  Willet said his company tended to take a cautious approach 
in new markets initially, but could speed up its expansion as 
it nails down the best model for developing its business.  "Every market we move into, we take our time but we end up 
becoming the world's number one," he said.  Other executives added that Best Buy would not end up 
competing with its Jiangsu Five Star unit, which is more 
focused on China's smaller cities.  Five Star, which runs 146 stores, plans to add 20 to 30 
outlets this year and could pick up the pace of expansion in 
2008, a Five Star executive said.