-- Strains drive Australian bank rates to 13-year high
-- By  Anirban Nag
-- Mon Mar 10, 2008 2:48am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/10/businesspro-economy-credit-dc-idUSSYD17211120080310

 

 SYDNEY  (Reuters) - Global credit strains took a heavy toll 
on Australian money markets on Monday, driving interbank rates 
to their highest in 13 years as banks hoarded cash even as 
desperate borrowers scrambled for more funds. 

  The credit stress spilled over from the United States last 
week where the Federal Reserve was forced to promise billions 
of extra dollars to ease a logjam in the markets which had seen 
intense pressure on some hedge funds and mortgage lenders.  "The economic downside has increased quite a bit," said 
Peter Jolly, head of research at National Australia Bank. "The 
credit markets seem to be telling us that not all is well in 
the economy and the financial system."  On Monday, Carlyle Capital Corp CARC.AS, an affiliate of 
private equity firm Carlyle Group CYL.UL, said it was still 
in talks with lenders on funding its $21.7 billion bond 
portfolio.  Last week the bond fund said its banks had made margin 
calls it could not meet and warned of a cash shortage.  In Australia, the strains were showing in the interbank 
market where banks were hoarding cash, driving three-month bank 
bill futures as high as 8.15 percent. That was up from 8 
percent on Friday and almost 90 basis points higher than the 
central bank's overnight cash rate of 7.25 percent.  In Japan, JGB futures vaulted to a 2-1/2-year high, with 
traders saying hedge funds were getting caught on the jump in 
London Inter-bank Offered Rate (LIBOR).  Yen LIBOR was set at 0.9875 percent on Friday, jumping back 
to the highest since mid-December when money markets around the 
world seized up as banks hoarded cash on their balance sheets 
before closing books on the year.  The jump in Australian bill rates came even as three-year 
and 10-year government bonds rallied after investors sought 
refuge in less riskier sovereign debt, spooked by gloomy U.S. 
jobs data which stoked fears of a recession in the world's 
largest economy.  "The fact that government bond yields are falling and the 
bank bill rates are rising shows the extent of funding pressure 
existent at the shorter end," said Rory Robertson, interest 
rate strategist at Macquarie Bank.  "Funding pressures have become intense and the news is 
getting even worse since it started last August."
  TIGHT FINANCIAL CONDITIONS  On Friday, the Federal Reserve unveiled new measures 
injecting $200 billion into the banking system and said it was 
in close consultation with counterparts at other central banks.  The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) last year injected 
generous amounts of cash into the banking system, but has been 
more frugal since. In its daily operation on Monday, it added 
just about A$150 million ($138.75 million) more than the 
banking system's requirement of A$1.05 billion.  Last week the RBA raised official rates to a 12-year high 
to contain domestic inflation.  The central bank has left the door open for more hikes, but 
noted that past rate hikes coupled with rising borrowing costs 
from the global credit crunch had led to a substantial 
tightening in financial conditions.  Commercial banks have responded to the funding pressure by 
raising their mortgage and corporate lending rates by more than 
the increase in the official cash rate.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd ( CBA.AX ), the country's 
biggest mortgage lender, said on Monday it would raise its 
variable home loan rate by 35 basis points -- 10 basis points 
higher than the central bank's hike.  Some analysts still think there is a real risk the RBA will 
hike again in May after what is expected to be an alarmingly 
high inflation report for the first quarter.  But the markets have almost priced out any chance of a 
further hike, and are even implying around 23 basis points of 
rate cuts by the RBA in the next 12 months.  "I expect the RBA to keep rates on hold in the foreseeable 
future as the market is doing some of the tightening that it 
would have done," said Macquarie's Robertson.  Analysts say the tightening in lending conditions have led 
to a high premium being attached to liquidity and this was 
expected to keep term money market rates at elevated levels.  "High money market rates reflect the wider global credit 
crunch and also some of Australia's reliance on overseas 
markets for funding," said Besa Deda, senior market strategist 
at St. George Bank.  "Some companies which used to be able to fund themselves 
from international markets, are now having to access locally to 
banks for funding since the onset of the global credit crunch."  (Additional reporting by  Eric Burroughs  in Tokyo)  (Editing by  Jonathan Standing )