-- Calpine, New Century, Coudert, Ownit: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2007-05-31T13:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-31/calpine-new-century-coudert-ownit-bankruptcy-update1-.html

          
          
             Power producer  Calpine Corp.  said in
bankruptcy court yesterday that it still intends to file a plan
by June 20 when its exclusive right to propose a reorganization
will end.  
 While Calpine says it hopes the plan will meet with approval
from as many creditor groups as possible, the company's lawyer
said, ``We harbor no illusions that full or even partial
consensus will be easy.''  
 Calpine also hopes to resolve enough claims so some value
will remain in the plan for existing shareholders.  
 Separately, Calpine was authorized yesterday to cure the
defaults and assume the lease for 110-megawatt cogeneration plant
that supplies power to John F. Kennedy International Airport in
New York. Assumption became feasible when the price of natural
gas decreased and the rate paid for the power increased.  
 Calpine stock closed yesterday at $3.70 a share, up 17
cents. The highest closing price since Calpine's Dec. 20, 2005,
Chapter 11 filing was $3.97 a share on April 25, 2007.  
 With 92 power plants in 21 states producing 26,500 megawatts
when the reorganization began, Calpine generated enough power for
20 million homes. Since filing, Calpine has sold or closed 20
percent of the plants.  
 The petition by San Jose, California-based Calpine listed
assets of $26.6 billion, before Calpine wrote down the assets by
$7.1 billion.  
 The case is In re Calpine Corp., 05-60200, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Northwest Airlines Emerging With B1, B+ Credit Ratings  
 Northwest Airlines Corp. , the fifth-biggest U.S. carrier, is
emerging from almost 21 months in reorganization today with a B+
corporate rating from Standard & Poor's and its equivalent, B1,
from Moody's Investors Service Inc.  
 Moody's said May 29 that Northwest used Chapter 11 to reduce
operating costs to a level ``now lower than most other network
carriers.'' As a result of reorganization, the average age of the
airline's fleet is 10.3 years, compared with 17.6 years before
reorganization.  
 S&P said last week that Northwest is now ``among the most
profitable U.S. carriers'' as a result of a lower cost structure
``mostly due to labor concessions.''  
 Moody's calculates that Eagan, Minnesota-based Northwest
will have adjusted debt of $11.3 billion.  
 In its last monthly operating statement filed with the
bankruptcy court, Northwest reported an $8 million net profit for
April. For the month, operating profit was $80 million.  
 A U.S. bankruptcy judge in New York approved Northwest's
Chapter 11 plan May 18. Unsecured creditors will receive stock
for their claims, expected to total between $8.2 billion and
$8.8 billion when all disputed claims are resolved.  
 Northwest predicted that the stock will represent a recovery
for unsecured creditors between 66 percent and 83 percent.  
 The case is In re Northwest Airlines Corp., 05-17930, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 New Century May Charge $1,000 to Permit Senior Lien Foreclosure  
 New Century Financial Corp . is the first company in Chapter
11 to put a price tag on removing the so-called automatic stay.  
 The price is $1,000, with a discount for volume.  
 For permission to foreclose a New Century second mortgage,
the holder of a first mortgage must pay $1,000, as the result of
approval given yesterday by the U.S. Bankruptcy Judge in
Delaware.  
 For $10,000, a first lien mortgage holder can foreclose an
unlimited number of New Century subordinate mortgages.  
 The so-called ``automatic stay'' prohibits anyone from
filing legal proceedings against a company in reorganization
without permission from the bankruptcy court. New Century
originated thousands of subprime second mortgages. When the first
mortgage on one of the properties goes into default, the holder
of the first mortgage couldn't foreclose New Century's second
mortgage without approval from the bankruptcy court removing the
automatic stay.  
 To prevent being ``inundated with motions to lift the
automatic stay,'' New Century proposed charging $1,000 for the
right to foreclose if it did not cure the defaults in 45 days.  
 Other mortgage lenders like Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.
called the $1,000 fee ``egregious.''  
 Lenders worried they would pay hundreds of thousands of
dollars were mollified when the bankruptcy court yesterday
allowed a mortgage holder to pay New Century $10,000 for the
right to foreclose multiple mortgages.  
 Once the country's second-largest subprime lender, New
Century was responsible for $60 billion in home loans in 2006.
The company generated $220 billion since inception.  
 The case is In re New Century TRS Holdings Inc., 07-10416,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Coudert Wins Chance to Challenge $85 Million Malpractice Claim  
 Coudert Brothers LLP , one of the world's leading law firms
before filing to liquidate in Chapter 11, got permission from the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York to attempt to dismiss an $85
million malpractice suit.  
 The case, brought by former client Statek Corp., has been
frozen since the firm sought bankruptcy court protection in 2006.
A U.S. bankruptcy judge yesterday said Coudert can file papers
asking a U.S. district court to throw out the suit. Statek's
claim is the largest in the bankruptcy case.  
 Solely for the purpose of voting on the reorganization plan,
Coudert agreed yesterday that Statek can vote a $3 million
unsecured claim and a $50 million insured claim. Coudert's
insurance coverage is capped at $50 million.  
 If Coudert fails to get the Statek case thrown out, the suit
will again be frozen.  
 A hearing seeking court approval of Coudert's disclosure
statement, which describes its proposed liquidating plan to
creditors, is set for June 15.  
 The case is In re Coudert Brothers LLP, 06-12226, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Ownit and Committee Disagree Over CEO's Salary  
 Bankrupt companies and their creditors' committees might
disagree over bonuses for the chief executives, but they seldom
dispute base salaries in the mid to low six figures. The subprime
lender Ownit Mortgage Solutions Inc. is the exception to the
rule.  
 The official creditors' committee opposes the $300,000
salary for Ownit's Chief Executive Officer  William Dallas . Ownit
says in a court filing that the opposition stems from ``some
inexplicable personal animus'' against Dallas.  
 Ownit argues that the base salary is only $150,000, leaving
another $150,000 as a performance bonus. The company points out
that his pre-bankruptcy base salary was $500,000 with a $750,000
bonus.  
 The salary would never be paid in cash but would count
against the loans that Dallas owes Ownit.  
 The committee in rebuttal contends that Dallas is not
required to work full time for Ownit.  
 The U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware is scheduled to sort
out the dispute at a June 7 hearing.  
 Agoura Hills, California-based Ownit was the country's
eleventh largest sub-prime home mortgage lender on filing a
Chapter 11 petition in late December when it began liquidating.
The company made $5.5 billion in loans during the first half of
2006 and $8.3 billion in 2005.  
 Ownit had halted operations earlier in December after the
warehouse lender shut down financing and froze Ownit's funds.  
 The case is In re Ownit Mortgage Solutions Inc., 06-12579,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (San
Fernando Valley).  
 Royal Cordage Rope Maker Files Chapter 11 in North Carolina  
 Rope manufacturer Royal Cordage Corp. from Stanley, North
Carolina filed a Chapter 11 petition May 29 in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Charlotte.  
 The filing listed a plant and 19 acres of land worth $2.2
million securing $2.7 million in mortgage debt. Total listed debt
is $5.2 million.  
 The secured creditors include General Electric Capital Corp.  
 The case is In re Royal Cordage Corp., 07-31102, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Western District of North Carolina (Charlotte).  
 Goodyear Tire Loses $1.4 Million Dana Claim for Late Filing  
 Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.  learned an expensive lesson
yesterday when Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in New York threw
out a $1.4 million claim against auto parts maker Dana Corp. that
was filed after the deadline.  
 One of the creditor-friendly reforms in the October 2005
amendments to the bankruptcy law included a new provision
allowing suppliers to be paid in full for ``goods'' received
within 20 days before the bankruptcy filing.  
 Goodyear inexplicably missed the deadline for filing the
claim. Dana's records showed that notices about the last day for
filing the claim was sent to the proper address.  
 Although Dana is yet to file a plan and is months away from
emerging from chapter 11, Lifland wouldn't cut Goodyear any
slack. For a $1.4 million claim that would have been paid in
full, Goodyear won't be paid a dime.  
 Separately, Dana filed the April operating report showing a
$170 million net loss for the month. The operating loss was $120
million, including $142 million in ``realignment charges.''  
 Year to date, the net loss is $262 million. The operating
loss for the first four months of 2007 is $165 million, including
$161 million in ``realignment charges.''  
 Dana and two unions have been negotiating contract
concessions facing today's deadline when the bankruptcy judge is
scheduled to decide whether the company may impose lower wages
and benefits on members of the United Auto Workers and the United
Steelworkers unions. Last month, the two sides asked the judge to
extend the deadline on the last day.  
 Toledo, Ohio-based Dana began the Chapter 11 reorganization
in March 2006, listing assets of $7.9 billion and debt totaling
$6.8 billion.  
 The case is In re Dana Corp., 06-10354, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Portions of Dura Management Bonuses Cut by Judge  
 The U.S. Bankruptcy Judge in Delaware upheld objections by
the United Auto Workers Union to parts of the $2 million
incentive program proposed for senior managers at auto component
manufacturer  Dura Automotive Systems Inc .  
 The bankruptcy judge disallowed bonuses for delivering a
business plan to creditors and for preparing a Chapter 11
reorganization plan. Instead, senior executives can earn $1.25
million if the company meets performance targets.  
 Separately, Dura won an extension of its exclusive right to
file a plan through September 30. No one objected.  
 Rochester Hills, Michigan-based Dura is a combination of 19
companies acquired between 1994 and 2003. The Chapter 11 petition
last September listed $2 billion in assets and debt of $1.7
billion.  
 The case is In re Dura Automotive Systems Inc., 06-11202,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  
 Stonepath Group Resolves Dispute Over Involuntary Petition  
 Stonepath Group Inc.  has reached agreement with the
petitioning creditors who filed an involuntary Chapter 7 petition
against the company early this month.  
 The creditors were not owed money by Stonepath. The debt was
owed by a non-filed Stonepath subsidiary named MGR Inc.  
 Everyone has agreed, subject to approval by the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Delaware where the involuntary petition was
filed, that the Chapter 7 petition in Delaware will be dismissed.  
 Instead, MGR will go into a Chapter 7 liquidation in
Minnesota.  
 The petitioning creditors contended that ``Stonepath's
management has completely abandoned it'' while the company was
taken over by secured creditor Mass Financial Corp.  
 Stonepath calls itself a ``non-asset-based third-party
logistics'' services provider.  
 The case being dismissed is In re Stonepath Corp., No. 07-
10634, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Junk Bond Spread at 2.42 Percent; Down from 10 Percent in 2002  
 The spread between U.S. Treasury securities and junk bonds
shrank to 2.42 percent on May 29, according to Merrill Lynch &
Co.'s  high-yield index .  
 In 2002, the spread was almost 10 percent.  
 The current spread is half the five year average.  
 Briefly Noted:  
 Several insurance companies objected to approval of the
Chapter 11 plan for auto parts maker  Collins & Aikman Corp.  in
advance of the June 5 confirmation hearing when the U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge in Detroit will be asked to approve the
reorganization. The insurance companies say their policies
shouldn't be sold to companies buying Collins & Aikman
businesses. At the June 5 hearing, the bankruptcy court is also
being asked to approve the $134 million sale of the carpet and
acoustics business and the $68 million sale of part of the North
American plastics business. Collins & Aikman, the maker of auto
instrument panels, doors and trim used in 90 percent of the autos
sold in the U.S., began the Chapter 11 reorganization just over
two years ago. The case is In re Collins & Aikman, 05-55927, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  
 U.S. Energy Biogas Corp., whose payment-in-full Chapter 11
plan was approved in a May 24 confirmation order, reported a $4.7
million net loss in April. The subsidiary of power-plant operator
 U.S. Energy Systems Inc . filed to reorganize in late November,
2006, listing assets of $161 million and debt of $155 million.
The parent, based in White Plains, New York, was not in
reorganization. The case is In re U.S. Energy Biogas Corp., 06-
12827, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 The exclusive right of Global Home Products LLC to file a
plan was extended to August 3. Controlled by an affiliate of
Cerberus Capital Management, Global home sold its Anchor Hocking
glassware business for $75 million cash and $20 million in
assumed debt after previously being authorized to sell its
WearEver brands including Mirro, Regal and AirBake. Before that
the Burnes Group picture framing business went for $33.5 million.
Created in 2004 from a $310 million acquisition of the Anchor
Hocking, Burnes Group and WearEver businesses from Newell
Rubbermaid, Global Home filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in
April 2006. The case is In re Global Home Products LLC, 06-10340,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Liquidating hotel operator Arlington Hospitality Inc. has an
agreement to settle $43 million in claims by PMC Commercial Trust
for $200,000. After filing the chapter 11 in September, 2005,
Arlington sold its assets to Sunburst Hotel Holding, Inc. and SJB
Equities, Inc. for $9.6 million cash and $22.8 million in debt
assumption. The petition listed assets of $99 million and $94
million in debt. Arlington and affiliates owned or leased 36
AmeriHost Inns. The case is In re Arlington Hospitality Inc., 05-
51848, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  
 W.R. Grace & Co.  reported a $2.8 million net loss in its
April operating statement filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Delaware where the specialty chemical manufacturer and 61
subsidiaries filed Chapter 11 petitions in April 2001 to deal
with asbestos claims. The case is In re W.R. Grace & Co., 01-
01139, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Australian Bankruptcy Rate Doubles from Last Year  
 Australians are declaring bankruptcy this year at a rate
twice last year's, according to a report in the Courier Mail
citing testimony at a government hearing from the head of the
Insolvency and Trustee Service Australia.  
 Filings are running 30,000 a year now, contrasted to 13,000
10 or 15 years ago, the story said.  
 Chile's GasAtacama Near Bankruptcy Thanks to Scarce Natural Gas  
 GasAtacama SA, a Chilean utility and natural gas pipeline,
is near bankruptcy by losing upwards of $500,000 a day from
purchasing more expensive diesel fuel for generators to replace
natural gas no longer available from Argentina.  
 The company is in negotiations with its mining customers
over rate increases. The customers include Chile's state-owned
Codelco, the world's biggest copper producer.  
 Argentina, the supplier of most of Chile's natural gas, is
cutting exports to satisfy demand at home.  
 GasAtacama is jointly controlled by Jackson, Michigan-based
 CMS Energy Corp.  and  Empresa Nacional de Electricidad SA , the
largest power producer in Chile.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick Oster  at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        