-- Donald Evans Will Be Non-Executive Chairman of TXU
-- Edward Klump
-- 2007-05-31T20:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-31/donald-evans-will-be-non-executive-chairman-of-txu-update3-.html

          
          
             Donald L. Evans, former U.S. commerce
secretary, will be non-executive chairman of TXU Corp., the
largest Texas power producer, once the company's $32 billion sale
is completed.  
 Kneeland Youngblood of Pharos Capital Group LLC also will
join the TXU board of directors once the deal closes, the buyout
group said today in an e-mailed statement. Previously announced
board members include Lyndon Olson, a former U.S. ambassador to
 Sweden , James Huffines, chairman of the University of Texas Board
of Regents, and former U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Administrator  William Reilly .  
 TXU, based in  Dallas , agreed in February to a buyout by a
group led by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and TPG Inc., formerly
Texas Pacific Group. Including debt, the sale of TXU is valued at
about $44 billion, making it the largest leveraged buyout. The
transaction is expected to close in the second half of this year.  
 Evans was secretary of commerce under President  George W.
Bush  for four years. He's expected to work with former U.S.
Secretary of State James A. Baker III, an adviser to the buyout
group.  
 C. John Wilder, TXU's current chairman and chief executive
officer, wasn't mentioned in today's statement. Wilder doesn't
have any agreements regarding future employment in place with the
investor group, Lisa Singleton, a TXU spokeswoman, said today in
a telephone interview.  
 Shares of TXU fell 17 cents to $67.50 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading, or 2.5 percent below the proposed
buyout price of $69.25 a share.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        