-- UPDATE 2-Sweden's Meda buys 3M European pharma unit
-- 
-- Thu Nov 9, 2006 6:15am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/09/health-meda-3m-idUSL0987949420061109

 

  (Adds CEO and analyst quotes, background, share price) 

  By Sven Nordenstam and Rebecka Kihlstrom STOCKHOLM  Nov 9 (Reuters) - Swedish drugs group Meda
( MEDAa.ST ) said on Thursday it was to buy the European
pharmaceuticals business of U.S. diversified manufacturer 3M
( MMM.N ) for 6.2 billion crowns ($866.6 million).  The announcement came as 3M announced separately that it had
agreed to sell its pharmaceutical operations across the world to
various buyers. Meda shares rose sharply on the news and were up
11.6 percent at 212 crowns by 1041 GMT.  "It (the division) fits like a glove. We were extremely
happy when we saw this opportunity, " Meda Chief Executive
Anders Lonner told Reuters.  Meda said the 3M division had sales of about 2 billion
crowns and 330 employees. It said the acquisition would
strengthen its position in key markets such as cardiovascular,
dermatology and oncology drugs.  "It is a good acquisition at a good price, and with good
synergies from the looks of it," said HQ Bank analyst Jesper
Norberg. Meda said it expected the acquisition to result in
annual cost savings of more than 150 million crowns.  The Swedish firm, which had sales of 3.9 billion crowns in
the first nine months of the year, said it would finance the
acquisition with bank loans and a new share issue worth 1.8
billion crowns, which it will then use to repay some of the
loans.  Meda said the acquired pharmaceutical portfolio included
three specialist products used to fight skin diseases, cardiac
arrhythmia and angina pectoris.  During the last two years Meda has bought product rights to
drugs from companies such as Sanofi-Aventis ( SASY.PA ) and
Novartis ( NOVN.VX ).   It has a track record of big acquisitions. In 2005 it bought
Germany's Viatris for 750 million euros, a company with more
than double its own sales at the time, and nine times as many
employees.  Since the acquisition of Viatris, Meda's shares have more
than tripled in value as it has successfully integrated that
company and sharply increased profitability.  Instead of developing entirely new drugs from scratch, Meda
acquires or signs license agreements for existing products.




