-- China tweaks rules on foreign brokerage JVs
-- 
-- Fri Dec 28, 2007 10:18am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/28/businesspro-china-brokerages-rules-dc-idUSPEK23229820071228

 

 BEIJING  (Reuters) - China on Friday eased the rules 
governing foreign brokerage firms' joint ventures, modestly 
expanding their business scope and lowering the requirements 
for foreign firms entering the sector. 

  However, the rules maintained that foreigners may own only 
up to one-third of such companies, dashing the hopes of many 
investors who had wanted to see that cap raised.  They also did not open up broking of domestic currency 
A-shares to such JVs, another long hoped-for change.  The new rules, which were approved by the China Securities 
Regulatory Commission (CSRC) on November 29 but were only 
published on Friday, will take effect from January 1, 2008.  They will for the first time allow foreign-invested 
brokerage JVs to sponsor offerings of bonds and shares, 
including A-shares, in addition to underwriting such issues.  The rules also make clear that foreigners may take stakes, 
including strategic stakes, in listed Chinese brokerages, which 
unlike JVs are able to conduct a full range of broking 
activities.  Stakes in listed brokerages are capped at 20 percent for a 
single foreign investor and 25 percent for all foreign 
investment combined -- identical to those in place for the 
country's commercial banks.  The rules also stipulate that unlike for foreign JVs, 
listed brokerages that have foreign investment do not need to 
have a single Chinese investor who owns at least a one-third 
stake.  Firms forming JVs will also face less stringent 
requirements on the minimum number of employees and the number 
of years they have been in operation.  U.S. and European financial firms have been pressing 
Beijing to open its brokerage and other financial industries to 
wider foreign investment, including by raising ownership caps.  The rules come after a two-year overhaul of the country's 
once-troubled brokerage sector that has involved a moratorium 
on issuing new licenses for foreign securities JVs.  Beijing agreed at economic talks with the United States 
earlier this month -- after the approval of the new rules -- to 
resume licensing such ventures, without giving a timetable.  Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and UBS currently operate 
brokerage ventures in China, while several other foreign firms, 
including Credit Suisse, HSBC and Citigroup, are in talks with 
potential Chinese partners, industry sources have said.  (Reporting by Zhou Xin,  Eadie Chen  and  Jason Subler ; 
Editing by David Cowell)