-- Massey Mine Citations Didn't Lead to Warning Letter Due to Computer Error
-- Holly Rosenkrantz
-- 2010-04-14T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-14/massey-mine-citations-didn-t-lead-to-warning-letter-due-to-computer-error.html

          
          
             The Massey Energy Co. coal mine in
West Virginia where 29 workers died last week in an explosion
received eight citations that were erroneously logged by
regulators in a way that kept the site from being added to a
safety watch list, U.S. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis said.  
 Massey’s Upper Big Branch mine should have received a
warning letter in October about potential pattern-of-violation
status, if not for a computer error, Solis said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. The Labor Department on April 12 discovered
a flaw in a program used since 2007 to determine whether mines
meet the criteria for such status, Solis said.  
 “This computer error did not have an impact on this
tragedy,” Solis said, because the mine from October through
December 2009, reduced its level of “significant and
substantial” violations by almost 65 percent. “It did,
however, have an impact on the information that we provided to
the public.”  
 Three Democratic lawmakers called for an investigation of
practices regarding pattern-of-violations, which are supposed to
lead to tougher sanctions on the mines. They want to know
whether regulations are “reliable and effective in weeding out
and sanctioning habitual violators,” according to a statement
yesterday from House Education and Labor Committee Chairman
George Miller of California, House Natural Resources Committee
Chairman Nick Rahall of West Virginia, and Representative Lynn
Woolsey of California.  
 The department’s announcement “that a computing error last
October prevented them from identifying the Upper Big Branch
mine for increased scrutiny is deeply disturbing,” the
lawmakers said.  
 $900,000 in Fines  
 The Mine Safety and Health Administration issued about
$900,000 in fines to the Upper Big Branch mine in Montcoal, West
Virginia, in the past year and the site got two citations on
April 5, the day of the explosion. The program wasn’t counting
final orders of unwarrantable citations in the “unpaid and
uncontested, first demand letter sent” category, Solis said.  
 Upper Big Branch had eight citations in this category,
which weren’t counted in the screening process. Inclusion in
these orders means that the mine should have been identified for
further consideration for placement on potential pattern-of-
violation status, Solis said. The computer errors have been
corrected and the data re-run, she said.  
 The blast at the mine has shut the operation indefinitely.
The U.S. government won’t let Massey reopen Upper Big Branch
until an investigation is complete and the company can assure it
that the mine is safe, Solis said.  
 Shut Down  
 Richmond, Virginia-based Massey had planned to produce 1.6
million tons from the mine this year to take advantage of the
highest coal prices in two years.  
 Telephone messages left at a media hotline Massey has set
up and for Jeff Gillenwater, a company spokesman, weren’t
immediately returned.  
 President Barack Obama asked Solis and MSHA director Joe
Main for a preliminary report on the worst mining accident since
a blast in Kentucky killed 38 in 1970. J. Davitt McAteer, a
former Clinton administration official, was named yesterday by
West Virginia Governor Joe Manchin to head a special
investigation.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        