-- Fed seen on hold as credit worries rise
-- By  Mark Felsenthal
-- Tue Aug 7, 2007 1:10am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/08/07/businesspro-usa-fed-overnighter-dc-idUSN0640724220070807

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected 
to hold overnight interest rates steady and reaffirm concerns 
about inflation at its meeting on Tuesday, but may also 
acknowledge emerging signs of economic weakness. 

  Meeting against a backdrop of unsettled financial markets, 
the central bank faces the difficult task of acknowledging 
heightened uncertainty over the economy's path, while 
reassuring jittery markets the expansion is sound.  The interest-rate decision does not appear to be in doubt. 
The Fed looks certain to hold the benchmark federal funds rate 
at 5.25 percent, the level it was raised to in June last year.  Markets, however, will scour a Fed announcement due at 
around 2:15 p.m. EDT for any hint officials are growing anxious 
that rising defaults rate in the U.S. subprime mortgage market 
and tightening corporate credit conditions could damage the 
economy.  "We think the Fed will walk a verbal tightrope, 
acknowledging the turbulence in financial markets and some 
additional risks to its growth forecast while maintaining a 
hawkish tone on inflation," said Michael Darda of MKM Partners.  In recent statements, Fed officials have said housing 
market weakness and financial market volatility has not spilled 
over into the broader economy, and they have held to their 
forecast of steady if somewhat sluggish growth through 2007.  The economy grew at annual rates of 0.6 percent in the 
first three months of the year, and 3.4 percent in the second 
quarter of 2007. The Fed's central forecast is for growth of 
between 2.25 and 2.5 percent for 2007.  At the end of last week, stocks plummeted on comments by a 
Bear Stearns official that credit market conditions were at 
their worst in two decades. However, stocks rose sharply on 
Monday as investors snapped up perceived bargains.  Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues may take note 
of growing concerns about credit risk and shrinking liquidity 
in the housing and corporate credit markets, some analysts 
believe.  While some think the Fed will go so far as to give equal 
weight to concerns about growth and inflation, many observers 
expect the Fed to remain focused on ensuring that core 
inflation, excluding food and energy prices, moves convincingly 
lower.  "The committee will move to gently ... reshape the language 
within the statement to rebalance the risks between growth and 
inflation due to recent events and poise it for future action 
should events in the real economy warrant a rate cut," said 
Joseph Brusuelas, chief U.S. economist at IDEAglobal.  Fed officials have warned in the past that investors may 
have underestimated the risks they were taking and 
policy-makers are unlikely to view financial market swings as 
reason alone to lower interest rates.  "Fed officials are very aware that much of the difficulty 
coming to the surface today is the result of bad decisions made 
over the last few years and thus will not want to be seen as 
bailing out bad actors and creating moral hazard for the next 
financial crisis," economists at RBS Greenwich Capital wrote.  At the same time, inflation has shown signs of easing. By 
the Fed's favorite measure, core inflation drifted below 2.0 
percent in June. Many Fed officials have said they would like 
to see inflation contained in a 1.0 percent to 2.0 percent 
range.  The Fed will also factor in the unimpressive 92,000 
non-farm jobs created in July and signs of slowing service 
sector and manufacturing activity, all against the backdrop of 
a bleak news from the housing market.  Policy-makers will be watching closely to see whether there 
is any broader retrenchment of consumer or business spending.  "Although some Fed officials probably remain worried about 
inflation, we suspect that the recent news has made most 
members at least equally concerned about real activity," 
Goldman Sachs economist Jan Hatzius wrote.