-- Nexans to Buy Cable Unit of Madeco for $822 Million
-- Anne-Sylvaine Chassany
-- 2007-11-15T17:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-15/nexans-to-buy-cable-unit-of-madeco-for-822-million-update4-.html

          
          
             Nexans SA (NEX) , the world's biggest
maker of cables and wires, agreed to buy the cable unit of
 Chile 's Madeco SA for $822 million to tap an expanding Latin
American market.  
 Nexans will pay $422 million in cash and give Santiago,
Chile-based Madeco a 9 percent stake in the company via 2.5
million new shares, the Paris-based company said in a statement
today.  
 The purchase of the Chilean business, which had sales of
$672 million last year, comes after the French company doubled
its Asia-Pacific revenue through the December 2006 acquisition
of Olex Cables for A$515 million ($459 million). Nexans has
boosted sales of higher-margin high-voltage cables as power
producers seek to meet increasing electricity demand.  
 ``The deal fills a hole, as Nexans lacked a significant
presence in fast-growing  Latin America ,'' said Kepler analyst
Pierre Boucheny, who has a ``buy'' rating on the stock. ``But
the transaction isn't cheap. Nexans is betting it can improve
Madeco's profitability.''  
 Nexans shares fell 4.86 euros, or 4.8 percent, to close at
96.81 euros in Paris. The stock is little changed this year,
giving the company a market value of 2.5 billion euros. Shares
of Prysmian SpA, Nexans' closest competitor, have gained 25
percent since its initial share sale in May, valuing the
company at 3.3 billion euros.  
 Madeco, Chile's biggest maker of copper wire, surged 16
pesos, or 25 percent to 80 pesos in Santiago, and was trading
at 72.5 pesos at 17:38 p.m. Paris time.  
 High Profitability  
 Nexans aims to complete the purchase by the third quarter
next year, pending antitrust approval. The unit, which boasts
higher profitability than Nexans, should contribute to the
French company's earnings by 2009, Vincent said. The cash part
of transaction will be financed by existing credit lines.  
 ``The acquisition will allow us to boost our presence in
fast-growing South American markets,'' Chief Operating Officer
 Frederic Vincent  said on a conference call. ``We are buying
growth, but also profitability.''  
 Madeco's cable unit, which represents about 65 percent of
the parent company's sales, generated earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization equal to 10.6 percent of
revenue, compared with a margin of 6 percent at Nexans, Vincent
said.  
 These higher margins can be explained by strong demand and
less competitors, Nexans Chief Executive Gerard Hauser said
today in an interview in Paris.  
 High Price  
 ``Profitability at Madeco has decreased from 13 percent
last year to 10 percent this year though'' Kepler's Boucheny
noted. ``And Nexans, which trades at 7 times Ebitda, is paying
Madeco's unit at 9 times Ebitda.''  
 Madeco's wish to receive Nexans shares is ``a show of
confidence in the future,'' Hauser said. ``Madeco's unit is a
very beautiful asset and Nexans will remain the world's number
one for quite some time.''  
 Sales at the unit rose 12 percent last year as oil
exploration companies expanded drilling off the coasts of
 Brazil , where Madeco is the largest cable maker. About 43
percent of sales came from Brazil, 28 percent in Chile, where
demand is driven by a booming  mining industry , 18 percent in
 Peru  and 6 percent in  Argentina .  
 Nexans will propose that a representative of Madeco sit on
its board, Vincent said.  
 ``We have the means to pursue other acquisitions,'' Hauser
said. Nexans' chief said the company will target  North America 
and  Asia , notably Japan and  China , where it is studying two
purchases. The company may look at acquisitions ``of
significant size,'' he added.  
 -- With reporting of Rose Claverie in Paris. Editor: Larsen
(amn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel in London, at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        