-- PT Inco Says Strike at Sorowako Mine Disrupts Output
-- Naila Firdausi
-- 2007-11-15T08:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-15/pt-inco-says-strike-at-sorowako-mine-disrupts-output-update1-.html

          
          
             PT International Nickel Indonesia (INCO) ,
the country's largest nickel producer by value, said workers at
its Sorowako mine went on strike today seeking higher pay,
disrupting output at the site.  
 ``A number of workers at the company's Sorowako site walked
off the job this morning,'' the company, known as PT Inco, said
in an e-mailed statement. Mining and processing activities at
the Sulawesi mine ``will partially continue,'' it said.  
 Surging metals prices and record company earnings have
prompted mine workers from  Chile  to  Indonesia  to strike, seeking
a greater share of the profits. Nickel, added to stainless steel,
touched a record in May, boosting earnings at PT Inco, a unit of
 Cia. Vale do Rio Doce , the world's largest iron-ore producer.  
 Today's strike at Sorowako comes almost three weeks after
PT Inco announced a doubling of third-quarter profit to $265.5
million. The mining company said Nov. 1 it would pay almost its
entire nine-month earnings as a special dividend.  
 Jannus Siahaan, PT Inco's media relations official, was not
immediately available to comment today when Bloomberg called his
mobile phone. The Indonesian mining company, based in Jakarta,
is 60.8 percent held by  Brazil 's Vale.  
 Three-month nickel futures in  London  have gained 11 percent
in the past year, touching a record $51,800 a metric ton on May
9. The metal traded at $33,300 a ton at 3:15 p.m. Jakarta time.  
 PT Inco has more than tripled in Jakarta trading over the
past 12 months, and the stock is the sixth-best performer on the
 LQ45 Index (LQ45) , which tracks the exchange's most traded stocks. The
shares gained as much 2,600 rupiah, or 2.5 percent, to 107,750
rupiah today, and traded at 106,800 rupiah at 3:11 p.m.  
 In April, miners at Indonesia's Grasberg, the world's
second-largest copper mine, went on a strike over pay. The
strike ended after four days with a revised wage accord with
 Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  that paid the workers more.  
 Sulawesi is an Indonesian island.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Naila Firdausi in Jakarta at 
 nfirdausi@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        