-- Bank of China Confirms Bidding for Singapore Aircraft
-- Susan Li
-- 2006-11-23T10:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-23/bank-of-china-confirms-bidding-for-singapore-aircraft-update1-.html

          
          
             Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , the country's
oldest bank, said it's bidding for a stake in Asia's biggest
aircraft leasing business to expand its income source and reduce
dependence on fees earned from interests.  
 Bank of  China  is among four bidders for Singapore Aircraft
Leasing Enterprise, according to Chew Choon Seng, chief executive
officer of Singapore Airlines Ltd., which owns 35.5 percent of
Singapore Aircraft Leasing. Dubai Aerospace Enterprise and
 Japan 's Mitsubishi Corp. are the other bidders.  
 ``Bank of China is in the final bidding round for Singapore
Aircraft and is very keen about the prospects of aircraft finance
in China,'' Bank of China's Vice President Zhu Min, at an
interview in Beijing today. ``We see a huge market in fee incomes
and want to push thoroughly into these other areas instead of
only focusing on the loan business.''  
 Bank of China, founded in 1912, is among the Chinese lenders
that are trying to diversify their revenue sources and prepare
for global competition when China fully opens its banking
industry on Dec. 11. Foreign banks including Citigroup Inc., HSBC
Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered will be allowed to tap the
nation's $2 trillion in  savings , taking yuan deposits and lending
in the local currency to Chinese citizens.  
 Bank of China is also facing increased competition from
rivals including Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and
China Construction Bank.  
 Loans to Aviation  
 ICBC, as Industrial Bank is also called, has extended more
than 70 billion yuan ($8.9 billion) of loans to the aviation
industry, covering at least 100 aircraft loans and 200 guarantees,
according to the bank's Web site.  
 Bank of China's 8.25 percent shareholder Royal Bank of
Scotland has an agreement to help develop aircraft finance. Royal
Bank, Britain's second-biggest lender by market value, bought its
stake in the Chinese bank last year.  
 Zhu declined to elaborate whether Royal Bank of  Scotland 
would be involved in any acquisition of Singapore Aircraft by
Bank of China.  
 Bank of China's stock has gained 27 percent in Hong Kong
since its debut on June 1, performing better than the key Hang
Seng Index, which rose almost 24 percent in the same period.  
 Singapore Aircraft Leasing  
 Singapore Aircraft leases planes to 34 airlines including
 Canada 's WestJet, China's Shandong Airlines Co. and Kenya Airways,
earning profits every year since it started business in 1993.
Earnings are rising even as airlines in the Asia-Pacific region,
the fastest growing area for air traffic in the world, struggle
with high oil prices.  
 Morgan Stanley and UBS AG are advising Bank of China on the
bid for Singapore Aircraft Leasing.  
 Bank of China raised 20 billion  yuan  in the nation's largest
domestic share sale in July, four weeks after an $11.2 billion
global initial public offer.  
 Bank of China, China Construction Bank, Industrial &
Commercial Bank and Bank of Communications, four of the nation's
five biggest state-owned banks, have raised more than $40 billion
in initial public offerings since June 2005.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Josephine Lau in Beijing at 
 jlau22@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson in Hong Kong at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        