-- Remy to Exit Distribution Accord With Fortune in 2009
-- Ladka Bauerova
-- 2006-11-23T17:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-23/remy-to-exit-distribution-accord-with-fortune-in-2009-update6-.html

          
          
             Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , Europe's fifth-
largest liquor producer, withdrew from a venture with Fortune
Brands Inc. to gain more control over distributing its cognac
and champagne in  Asia .  
 Remy, the maker of Louis XIII cognac, said in a statement
that it will leave Maxxium Worldwide BV in 2009. Maxxium was
formed in 1999 by Remy, Scottish distiller Edrington Group Ltd.
and Fortune, the maker of Jim Beam whiskey, aiming to secure
sales as rivals expanded through mergers. Maxxium generates 40
percent of Remy's sales, spokeswoman Joelle Jezequel said.  
 The  shares  jumped to a five-month high on speculation that
the exit may make Remy a bid target as it competes with Pernod
Ricard SA and  Diageo Plc (DGE) , both more than seven times its size.
Remy has sold units and focused on pricier products to fend off
rivals. Chief Executive Officer Jean-Marie Laborde today said
the company would create its own Asian distribution network.  
 ``Some people may read this exit as a prelude to the sale
of a majority stake by the family controlling Remy Cointreau,''
said Laurent Vallee, a  fund manager  at Richelieu Finance in
Paris, which manages about $4.5 billion in stocks.  
 The Heriard-Dubreuil family controls Paris-based Remy
through holding companies.  
 ``Cognacs, champagne and Cointreau have huge potential in
 China  and southeast Asia,'' Laborde said in an interview. ``We
want to have total control over all our brands. The market for
cognac in China and southeast Asia is growing 25 to 30 percent a
year. Our objective is to grow at least as much.''  
 Emerging Markets  
 Remy's total sales rose 6.7 percent in the fiscal year
ended March 2006. Revenue in the Americas advanced 14.9 percent,
led by the U.S. European sales fell 0.1 percent, while sales in
Asia and the rest of the world gained 1.6 percent.  
 Louis XIII cognac, Remy's most prestigious brand, is aged
in barrels the company says are several hundred years old. A
700-milliliter bottle sells for C$2,099 ($1,838) at the Liquor
Control Board of Ontario, the world's biggest wine and spirit
buyer, according to the Canadian retailer's Web site.  
 The stock added 1.46 euros, or 3.4 percent, to 44.40 euros
in Paris today, the highest closing price since May 11. Its
market value is about 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion), compared
with  Pernod (RI) 's 15.7 billion euros and Diageo's 27.4 billion
pounds ($52.5 billion).  
 ``The current system is not able to build the premium
brands in  emerging markets ,'' Morgan Stanley analyst Alexandra Oldroyd said in a note. ``This removes one of the barriers to
Remy's participation in mergers. The main barrier, family
control, remains in place.''  
 Penalty Costs  
 The company will have to pay penalties and will incur
higher distribution costs from the exit, ``diluting'' earnings
from 2010 onwards by 5 to 10 percent, she wrote.  
 ``We will pay compensation to our partners, though I can't
say how much at this point,'' Laborde said, adding that more
details will be made available when Remy reports six-month
results on Dec. 12. Leaving Maxxium is ``expensive in the short
term, but profitable in the mid- to long-term.''  
 Maxxium was expanded in 2001 to include V&S Vin & Sprit AB,
the Swedish maker of Absolut vodka, and operates in most major
markets outside the U.S.,  South America ,  Africa  and  India . V&S
Chief Executive Officer Bengt Baron said in a statement that his
company won't be affected by Remy's retreat.  
 Possible Buyers  
 In January, Fortis analysts Philippe Ezeghian and Severine Ble said Remy may be of interest to  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ) 
and Bacardi Corp. In April, Exane BNP Paribas said the most
likely acquirer of Remy is  Brown-Forman Corp. (BF/A) , the maker of Jack
Daniel's whiskey.  
 ``It's not at all our intention'' to seek a takeover,
Laborde said today.  
 Press offices at Constellation, Bacardi, and Brown-Forman
didn't immediately return calls in the U.K. and the U.S., which
is celebrating the Thanksgiving holiday today.  
 Maxxium was ``viewed as a poison pill for potential
acquirors,'' UBS AG analysts  Melissa Earlam  and Araceli Strassburger said in a note today. They have a ``neutral 1''
rating on Remy's shares.  
 Remy also ended U.S. and German distribution agreements
when its last financial year closed in March. It reported a 2.1
percent drop in second-quarter revenue in October.  
 Fortune Brands' Beam Global Spirits & Wine Inc. won't have
a ``material adverse impact'' from Remy's exit, Beam Global
Chief Executive Officer Tom Flocco said in a separate statement.
Remy's brands account for about 15 percent of Maxxium's case
volume, according to that statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Bhatia in  London  at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net 
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        