-- Onyx Pharmaceuticals Files Complaint Against Bayer
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2009-05-17T17:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-05-17/onyx-pharmaceuticals-files-complaint-against-bayer-update2-.html

          
          
             Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. filed a
lawsuit against  Bayer AG (BAYN)  in a  California  federal court seeking a
ruling that an anti-cancer compound discovered during research
between the two companies is jointly owned.  
 The compound, fluoro-sorafenib, was uncovered in 1998 while
the two companies collaborated on research, Emeryville,
California-based Onyx said in a statement today. Talks between
 Germany ’s largest drugmaker and Onyx about the rights didn’t
result in an agreement, Onyx said.  
 “We have not yet received the complaint that is mentioned
in Onyx’s press release; once we receive it we will evaluate
it,” said Oliver Renner, a spokesman for Bayer’s health-care
unit in Berlin. “We will defend ourselves against the complaint
and we believe Onyx has no right regarding this compound.”  
 Lori Murray, a spokeswoman for Onyx, said she wasn’t aware
how long the two sides had negotiated on the rights.  
 The two companies are still cooperating on the development
and marketing plans for their Nexavar drug for liver and kidney
cancer, Onyx said. The compound in dispute is chemically similar
to Nexavar, except that a single fluorine atom was substituted
for a hydrogen atom, Onyx said.  
 The two companies last week announced that more than 65
studies on Nexavar will be presented at the  American Society of
Clinical Oncology   annual meeting  in  Orlando ,  Florida , beginning
May 29.  
 The suit was filed in U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California.  
 On May 6, Onyx said it had revenue of $53.7 million in the
first quarter, minus commercial and research and development
expenses. All of that revenue came from royalties on Nexavar.
Net income fell 74 percent to $4.07 million, or 7 cents a share.  
 Onyx Pharmaceuticals shares  fell  50 cents, or 1.9 percent,
to $25.30 in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading on May 15.
The stock has  declined  30 percent in the past year.  
 Bayer fell 42 cents to 36.90 euros in trading on May 15.
The stock is down 33 percent in the past 12 months.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        