-- Mittal to Control 80% of its Iron Ore to Counter Rio
-- Dale Crofts
-- 2007-06-20T18:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-06-20/mittal-to-control-80-of-its-iron-ore-to-counter-rio-update1-.html

          
          
             Arcelor Mittal (MT) , the world's biggest
steelmaker, plans to produce about 80 percent of the iron ore it
uses within the next decade to protect itself against price
increases from the three companies that dominate the market.  
 Mittal wants to boost supplies from the current 45 percent
of the ore it uses by buying mines near its manufacturing
facilities across the world, Chief Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  said today at a steel conference in New York.  
 Mittal is buying iron-ore facilities in Senegal and Liberia
to counter the market power of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) 
and Brazil's Cia. Vale do Rio Doce, which together control about
80 percent of the world's iron ore and are boosting prices for
the raw material used to make steel.  
 ``We want to have a completely integrated business model,''
Mittal said at the conference. High-cost new projects the iron-
ore companies are developing will make it ``difficult'' for
prices to decline substantially, he said.  
 Steelmakers worldwide are seeking to secure their own
supplies of iron ore after benchmark annual prices rose for a
fifth consecutive year, reaching a record. Iron ore accounts for
almost a quarter of the cost of making hot-rolled coil steel, the
biggest single cost, according to Credit Suisse.  
 Mittal agreed in February with Senegal's government to
invest $2.2 billion in a project that will produce as much as 25
million metric tons of ore a year. The company's $1 billion
project in Liberia will add 15.5 million tons.  
 Record New Projects  
 BHP and rival mining and energy companies are planning a
record A$43.4 billion ($36.2 billion) of new projects in
Australia, including iron-ore mines, the government's commodity
forecaster said May 16.  Rio Tinto , the world's second-largest
supplier, plans to raise annual output to 300 million tons.  
 China's economy , the world's fourth-largest, grew at an
annual rate of 11.1 percent in the first quarter, accelerating
from 10.4 percent in the previous three months. The growth has
spurred demand for materials to build skyscrapers, bridges, roads
and cars. Steel-product output in  China , supplier of one-third of
global steel, rose 21 percent in April, the National Bureau of
Statistics said today. Industrial output rose 17.4 percent, the
agency said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dale Crofts in  Chicago  at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        