-- Beware: Heavy store traffic doesn't mean huge sales
-- By  Chelsea Emery
-- Sat Nov 25, 2006 7:18pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/26/businesspro-retail-holiday-outlook-dc-idUSN2535647820061126

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Consumers packed malls and store 
parking lots over the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday weekend, 
leading many to expect this year's holiday sales figures could 
blow away expectations and lift retail stocks. 

  But early anecdotal data suggest heavy discounting drove 
demand. If that's true, sales gains could be less than last 
year and retail stocks could tread water for the remainder of 
the year.  "You already know it's a high traffic day," said Laura 
Richardson, a consumer analyst at BB&T Capital Markets. "What 
I'm looking at is traffic relative to what I'm used to seeing 
and the promotional efforts retailers are making. A lot of 
companies I follow are cutting (prices) more than last year and 
not getting great traffic. That's not a great sign for sales or 
profits."  Early-bird "doorbuster" promotions had customers lining up 
outside stores like electronics retailer Best Buy Co. Inc. 
( BBY.N ) before dawn on Friday. But the deals that attracted 
them, like high-definition televisions for less than $1,000, 
were just the same tactics retailers have used the last couple 
of years, said Michael McNamara, vice president of research and 
analysis for MasterCard's SpendingPulse.  Retailers "see traffic like this every year," McNamara 
said, adding that he was surprised by the amount of buzz 
generated by photos showing consumers pushing and shoving for 
the season's hot toys and electronic gadgets.  Indeed, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) predicted a rare 
decline in monthly sales on Saturday, even as bargain hunters 
jammed stores at the start of the holiday season.  The world's biggest retailer estimated that November sales 
fell 0.1 percent at its U.S. stores open at least a year -- a 
closely watched retail measure known as same-store sales.  The company had cut prices on some popular toys and other 
holiday items as early as October, eager to revive growth after 
back-to-back months of disappointing sales in September and 
October. But Saturday's report suggested the early discounts 
were not enough to reverse the poor sales trend.
  GROWTH PREDICTION UNCHANGED  The National Retail Federation trade group said it was 
leaving its holiday sales growth prediction unchanged at 5 
percent, down from last year's 6.1 percent.  Overall, sales momentum was a little slower heading into 
2006 season. Last year, the United States was showing 
year-over-year growth of 7 to 10 percent, excluding auto sales, 
heading into the holiday season. This year is a different 
story, with growth rates of 2 to 5 percent.  One economist said it appeared that shoppers took advantage 
of hefty discounts to buy big-ticket items for themselves, 
rather than as gifts, the opposite of last year's trend.  Wayne Best, senior economist at Visa USA, said the two 
strongest growth categories on "Black Friday" -- retail's first 
holiday shopping day -- were furniture and home furnishings as 
well as electronics and appliances, where the average ticket 
price rose a higher-than-expected 9 percent.  "Clearly that meant people were buying more items or more 
expensive items," he said.  Visa is expected to release sales figures on Monday, but 
even without hard data, there's no denying that store traffic 
trounced many retailers' expectations.  Chelsea Property Group Inc. opened 25 of its 36 outlet 
centers at midnight after Thanksgiving. Lines formed well 
before doors opened at the most popular stores including Gap 
Inc.'s ( GPS.N ) Banana Republic and Gap, and Coach Inc.'s 
( COH.N ) outlet stores, said representative Michele Rothstein.  "Because of so much excitement, we had people show up at 
centers we didn't even open (at midnight)," Rothstein said.  "I was blown away," said Beth Ann Schroeder, Disney Store 
( PLCE.O ) division manager for the Northern New Jersey and New 
York area. "I think sales were higher and traffic was higher. 
The two definitely go together."  (With reporting by Emily Kaiser in Chicago and Alexandria 
Sage in Los Angeles)