-- Wal-Mart sees weak sales as holiday season starts
-- By  Emily Kaiser
-- Sat Nov 25, 2006 7:18pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/26/businesspro-retail-holiday-dc-idUSMOL55061220061126

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) predicted 
a rare decline in monthly sales on Saturday, even as U.S. 
bargain-hunters jammed stores in search of gifts at the start 
of the crucial holiday shopping season. 

  Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, sounded a cautious 
note for retailers as they began a second day of Thanksgiving 
weekend sales with deep discounts and early bird specials on 
items from cashmere sweaters to big-screen plasma televisions.  Wal-Mart estimated that November sales fell 0.1 percent at 
its U.S. stores open at least a year -- a closely watched 
retail measure known as same-store sales.  The retailer will provide a final monthly sales report on 
Thursday, when most other major chain stores report their 
November figures. This would mark Wal-Mart's first monthly 
same-store sales decline since April 1996.  Wal-Mart had expected same-store sales to be flat compared 
with the same period last year, which many Wall Street analysts 
had viewed as disappointing. Wal-Mart's four-week November 
sales period ended on Friday.  "We would frankly have expected better," Merrill Lynch 
retail analyst Virginia Genereux wrote in a note to clients 
dated Friday, pointing out that Wal-Mart had slashed prices on 
popular toys, electronics and other gift items to lure 
customers. The retailer's widely publicized $4 generic drug 
program should have drawn more shoppers.  Investors are watching holiday sales particularly closely 
this year to gauge how consumers are coping with a slowdown in 
the housing market that has already hurt home improvement 
retailers and furniture stores.  Consumer spending accounts for some two-thirds of U.S. 
economic activity, and the November-December holiday season 
makes up anywhere from 20 percent to 40 percent of retailers' 
annual sales.  The National Retail Federation trade group expects holiday 
sales growth of about 5 percent, which would be a slowdown from 
last year's surprisingly strong 6.1 percent gain.
  $1,200 HAND-MADE TOYS  Department store chain J.C. Penney Co. Inc. ( JCP.N ) said 
its holiday season was off to a good start, with brisk foot 
traffic and strong demand for categories such as home 
entertainment, jewelry, children's clothing and housewares.  Famed toy retailer FAO Schwarz kept its stores open on 
Thanksgiving Day, and reported strong demand for hand-made 
wooden toys -- some of which sold for $1,200 apiece.  At FAO Schwarz's flagship store in New York, Thanksgiving 
Day sales were flat, which the company attributed to 
badweather, while its Las Vegas store saw a 45 percent sales 
increase.  "I see people buying better, what I call 'antiquity', 
presents that are better made, more durable -- things I view as 
generational presents," Ed Schmults, the chief executive, told 
Reuters in an interview.  Wayne Best, a senior economist at Visa USA, said steep 
discounts helped spur the strongest sales on Black Friday at 
furniture and home furnishings stores and electronics and 
appliance stores. In the later category, the average ticket 
rose 9 percent, he said.  Discount and department stores saw much softer growth, Best 
said. Visa is expected on Monday to release its sales data for 
Black Friday -- so named because retailers traditionally become 
profitable for the year on the day after Thanksgiving.  A Wal-Mart spokeswoman declined to comment on its Black 
Friday sales, but said the retailer will provide those details 
along with its sales report on Thursday.  Stores were packed on Friday, the traditional start to the 
holiday shopping season, and retailers were pushing another 
round of discounts on Saturday to keep shoppers coming back. 
The NRF trade group expected some 137 million Americans to go 
shopping this weekend.  But big crowds don't necessarily mean strong sales.  Michael McNamara, vice president of research and analysis 
at MasterCard's SpendingPulse, noted that while hot items such 
as the PlayStation 3 video game system have generated buzz, 
they are only a tiny portion of retailers' overall sales.  He said rather than focusing on Black Friday crowds, 
investors should pay close attention to October sales trends, 
which showed a dramatic slowdown in growth year-over-year 
heading into the holiday season.  "You're looking at (sales) growth rates that are about half 
of what they were last year," he said. "The momentum that we 
have coming in is definitely down several notches."  (Additional reporting by  Chelsea Emery  in New York and 
 Alexandria Sage  in Los Angeles)