-- Anti-Doping Agency Takes Closer Look at Cycling Drug Tests, WSJ Reports
-- Nancy Kercheval
-- 2010-08-07T01:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-07/anti-doping-agency-takes-closer-look-at-cycling-drug-tests-wsj-reports.html

          
          
             The World Anti-Doping Agency has
increased oversight of drug testing of cyclists amid complaints
professional cycling organizations aren’t prosecuting cases
properly, the Wall Street Journal said.  
 Agency staff will monitor blood and urine profiles that
Biological Passport collects from professional cyclists and be
more aggressive in making sure sanctions are levied, Director
General  David Howman  told the newspaper.  
 “Our job is to make sure the system isn’t being
sidestepped,” Howman told the Journal. “We have the right of
intervening if we think cases aren’t being prosecuted
appropriately.”  
 A second former teammate of seven-time Tour de France
champion  Lance Armstrong  has implicated the cyclist in
systematic doping, the New York Times reported yesterday. The
colleague, speaking to federal investigators, backed up claims
by  Floyd Landis  in May that there was doping “encouraged” by
Armstrong on a previous cycling team sponsored by the U.S.
Postal Service.  
 Armstrong, who has never failed a drug test, has denied the
Landis allegations and is yet to comment on the New York Times
article on his website. Armstrong’s spokesman Mark Higgins
didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail from Bloomberg News
seeking comment on the New York Times report.  
 Lack of Effort?  
 The anti-doping community has concerns that the Union
Cycliste Internationale, which administers the testing program,
has not followed protocol in trying to eradicate cheating, the
Journal said. Anti-doping officials are concerned about five
professional cyclists who were found to be doping in December
and haven’t been punished, the newspaper said, citing a person
familiar with the situation.  
 UCI President  Pat McQuaid  said the organization has
followed the agency’s guidelines. “I contest that there is a
lack of effort to catch drug cheats,” he told the Journal.  
 He said five riders who were recommended for sanctions
haven’t been identified and that the cases are still open, the
Journal reported. The identities of three others have been
disclosed and they face doping cases, McQuaid said.  
 Frederic Donze , a spokesman for the agency, didn’t return a
phone call or e-mail from Bloomberg seeking comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        