-- Asian Stocks Rise for a Fifth Week as Earnings, Forecasts Boost Confidence
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-08-07T01:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-07/asian-stocks-rise-for-a-fifth-week-as-earnings-forecasts-boost-confidence.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  rose for a fifth
consecutive week, the longest winning streak in more than a year,
after companies reported higher earnings or raised forecasts.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank, increased 3.7
percent in Hong Kong and  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. , Hong
Kong’s largest carrier, gained 7.1 percent.  Honda Motor Co. ,
Japan’s second-largest automaker, advanced 7.5 percent in Tokyo.
 Mitsubishi Corp. , Japan’s largest commodities trader, climbed
5.2 percent on higher prices for metals and oil.  
 “Earnings have proven very strong and that is contributing
to the market’s gains,” said  Paul Xiradis , who manages about
$10 billion as chief executive officer of Ausbil Dexia Ltd. in
Sydney. “There’s been a sentiment shift, and the market is in a
mood to view even marginally better data positively.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 2.8 percent this week to a
three-month high of 122.40, capping its longest streak of weekly
gains since April 2009. The gauge has slumped 5.2 percent from
its high this year on April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis, China’s
measures to cool its property market and signs of a U.S.
economic slowdown fueled concern that global growth may falter.  
 Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1.1 percent this
week and South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 1.4 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index advanced 3.1 percent, while China’s Shanghai
Composite Index increased 0.8 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index climbed 1.6 percent as a survey released in Canberra
showed  manufacturing  growth accelerated.  
 Earnings, Forecasts  
 HSBC rose 3.7 percent this week to HK$82.70 in Hong Kong.
Pretax profit of $11.1 billion in the first half of the year
beat the $8.8 billion median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  BNP Paribas SA , France’s largest bank, also reported
higher-than-estimated profit this week.  
 Cathay Pacific climbed 7.1 percent to HK$18.52 after first-
half net income surged more than eightfold and exceeded analyst
estimates. Reservations are “looking very good” as a
rebounding economy revives travel, Chief Executive Officer Tony
Tyler said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong on
Aug. 5.  
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. , the biggest holding company of Hong
Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing, jumped 13 percent to HK$58.20
after first-half profit rose from its port and retail earnings.  
 “Positive earnings are easing investor concerns about the
global economy,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , a fund manager in Tokyo
who helps oversee about $5.8 billion at Shinkin Asset Management
Co. “While uncertainties linger, investors don’t have to be
fearful of current conditions.”  
 Valuations, Economy  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has risen about 1.2 percent
this year, and stocks in the gauge trade at about 14 times
estimated earnings on  average . Gains this week were limited
after U.S. reports showed weaker-than-estimated employment, home
sales and factory orders.  
 The U.S. economy grew 2.4 percent in the second quarter,
slower than the first quarter’s 3.7 percent clip, government
data on July 30 showed.  
 The U.S. data have “knocked some people’s confidence,”
said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages $90 billion. “The U.S. economy is
going through a soft patch, but it’s also encouraging that
markets have not punished those results too badly.”  
 Honda  climbed 7.5 percent this week to 2,912 yen. The
automaker raised its full-year profit forecast by 34 percent as
vehicle demand in the U.S. and Asia recovered from a global
recession. Toyota Motor Corp., which is the world’s largest
carmaker and also raised its full-year outlook, rose 2.1 percent
to 3,115 yen.  
 Hitachi, Hyundai  
 Also in Tokyo, Hitachi Ltd., Japan’s third-biggest company
by sales, increased 6 percent to 373 yen after boosting its
forecast for first-half profit by 82 percent. The maker of
electronics and heavy machinery also reported first-quarter net
income, reversing a net loss a year earlier.  Kawasaki Heavy
Industries Ltd. , Japan’s third-largest maker of heavy machinery,
rallied 7.9 percent to 233 yen after returning to a profit in
the first quarter.  
 Hyundai Mobis Co., South Korea’s largest auto-parts maker,
jumped 7.3 percent to 219,500 won in Seoul. Profit soared 60
percent in the second quarter after Hyundai Motor Co. and Kia
Motors Corp., its biggest clients, boosted vehicle sales.  
 More than half of the companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index that have reported earnings per share for last quarter
have  exceeded analyst estimates , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, while 30 percent have missed them.  
 ‘Rally May Continue’  
 “Things are not looking as bad as some had feared,” said
 Khiem Do , Hong Kong-based head of multi-asset strategy at Baring
Asset Management (Asia) Ltd., which oversees about $10 billion.
“It’s possible the rally may continue a bit further as long as
earnings continue to improve.”  
 Mitsubishi rose 5.2 percent to 1,966 yen. A measure of
metals traded in  London  climbed 1.9 percent this week before
Asian markets closed, while New York-traded crude oil jumped 3.9
percent. PetroChina Co., the nation’s largest oil producer,
gained 3.5 percent to HK$9.12 in Hong Kong.  
 Rio Tinto Group advanced 3.7 percent to A$73.20 in Sydney.
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Albanese  said the world’s third-
largest mining company plans to boost spending 50 percent next
year and is studying mergers and acquisitions after profit
surged.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        