-- Floods in Asia, Drought in Russia Hit Poor Hardest While Roiling Markets
-- Madelene Pearson
-- 2010-08-07T02:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-07/from-fires-in-russia-to-flooding-in-asia-extreme-weather-taking-its-toll.html

          
          
             Floods killed thousands and left
millions homeless from Pakistan to North Korea as fires and
drought in Russia roiled global markets and a tropical storm
headed toward Bermuda.  
 Devastation in Asia may stretch aid efforts as crops are
destroyed at a time of soaring wheat prices, caused in part by
Russia’s decision to ban grain exports through Dec. 31. Raw-
sugar futures also rose in New York on speculation that Russia
may import more to offset drought losses.  
 In the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Colin reformed and is
bearing down on Bermuda with maximum sustained winds of 45 miles
(75 kilometers) per hour, according to the U.S. National
Hurricane Center in Miami. The storm is centered 330 miles (530
kilometers south of the island nation and is expected to drop as
much as 5 inches of rain there starting today.  
 “Mother Nature is playing a very evil hand,”  Peter McGuire , managing director at CWA Global Markets Pty, said in a
telephone interview from Sydney yesterday. “It’s always the
poor that suffer.”  
 Floods in northwestern Pakistan that have left 1,400 people
dead and 1.5 million homeless since July 22 may spread to the
south, United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Pakistan
Martin Mogwanja said yesterday.  
 The country’s deadliest floods in 80 years have damaged 5
percent of its rice crop, the Rice Exporters Association said.
At least 1.8 million people urgently need food, according to the
UN’s  World Food Program .  
 India, North Korea  
 More than 110 people died and hundreds others are missing
after flash floods struck the Ladakh region of Jammu and Kashmir
yesterday, Press Trust of India reported, citing State Police
Chief Kuldeep Khoda and others.  
 In North Korea, rains triggered landslides that blocked
railways, wrecked homes and buried crops, piling on hardship for
a country that already needs aid to feed its 24 million people.  
 Floods and heavy rain in China have killed at least 1,450
people this year, leveled more than 1.3 million houses and
destroyed more than 2 million hectares of farmland, according to
the state-run Xinhua News Agency.  
 China’s worst floods in more than a decade may cut rice and
pork supplies for the largest producer, boosting prices and
hampering government efforts to keep inflation under 3 percent.
Rice output may fall 5 percent to 7 percent, Li Qiang, managing
director at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., said this week.  
 Food Crisis?  
 Damage to crops and food stores may hinder aid to flood
victims and other vulnerable groups in the region and raise
concerns of a repeat of the 2008 food crisis, when record prices
sparked protests from Haiti to the Philippines. Wheat prices
rallied to the highest in almost two years yesterday because of
the ban by Russia, the third-largest exporter, and floods in
Canada, the world’s sixth-largest supplier of the grain.  
 Dry weather is affecting the winter wheat crop in western
Australia, said  David Streit , senior lead forecaster with
Commodity Weather Group in Bethesda, Maryland.  
 “The markets are starting to focus on that because wheat
is so tight right now,” Streit said.  
 In Russia, forest and peat-bog fires east of Moscow have
shrouded the city in smoke and delayed as many as 140 flights at
the capital’s airport.  
 Scorched Earth  
 Carbon monoxide in Moscow’s air rose to as high as 4.8
times the admissible maximum level before tapering off slightly
toward evening, the city’s environmental protection department
said on its  website  yesterday. The Health Ministry  advised 
Russians to stay indoors, limit physical activity and wear masks
when venturing outside.  
 Emergency crews are battling 558 fires covering 179,596
hectares (693 square miles) across Russia, the Emergency
Situations Ministry said on its  website . So far this year, fires
have scorched 729,761 hectares, an area about three times the
size of Luxembourg, according to the ministry. The fires have
 killed  at least 52 people, the Health Ministry said.  
 Firefighters and farmers won’t get any relief from nature
any time soon, said  Streit .  
 “The ridge that is responsible for the record-setting heat
is still going to be with us for the next 10 days,” Streit said.  
 If the drought persists, it may hinder efforts to plant a
winter wheat crop in Russia, Streit said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        