-- North Korea Warns of Physical Retaliation Against South Korea Over Drills
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-08-07T03:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-07/north-korea-warns-of-physical-retaliation-against-south-korea-over-drills.html

          
          
             North Korea  said it will counter with
“strong physical retaliation” joint military exercises by
South Korea and the U.S. and plans to deploy a nuclear-powered
U.S. aircraft carrier off South Korea’s western coast.  
 The warning isn’t an “empty threat,” the state-run Korea
Central News Agency reported today, citing a commentary in the
Rodong Sinmun daily newspaper. The naval drills off the Korean
Peninsula are an “intolerable challenge” and a “premeditated
military provocation to ignite a war,” the newspaper said,
according to KCNA.  
 North Korea’s military warned on Aug. 3 it may take
“physical retaliation” against South Korean naval ships
carrying out maneuvers near their disputed border and told all
shipping to avoid the area.  
 North Korea’s threats come amid heightened tension in the
region following the sinking of the South Korean warship Cheonan
in March. South Korean and U.S. forces last month carried out
exercises off the east coast.  
 Twenty ships, including the nuclear-powered aircraft
carrier USS  George Washington , took part in the drills, together
with hundreds of aircraft and thousands of troops. The U.S. also
plans to send the carrier to South Korea’s western coast in the
coming months for more exercises, sparking opposition from China.  
 North Korea and its ally, China, have both said the
presence of the George Washington threatens security on the
Korean peninsula, which has been divided since civil war ended
with a stalemate in 1953.  
 South Korea two days ago began its own anti-submarine
exercises in its western waters that will last until Aug. 10.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        