-- HP's Ex-CEO Hurd Said to Reach Settlement With Sexual-Harassment Accuser
-- Aaron Ricadela
-- 2010-08-07T02:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-07/hp-contractor-didn-t-have-sex-with-hurd-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             The  Hewlett-Packard Co.  contractor
accusing former Chief Executive Officer  Mark Hurd  of sexual
harassment didn’t have an affair or a sexual relationship with
him, said  Gloria Allred , the woman’s attorney.  
 Allred, a lawyer with Allred, Maroko & Goldberg in Los
Angeles, declined to name the woman or comment further. The
woman’s claim spurred an investigation of Hurd that led him to
step down today.  
 While HP’s investigation didn’t find a violation of the
company’s sexual-harassment policy, Hurd “demonstrated a
profound lack of judgment that seriously undermined his
credibility and damaged his effectiveness in leading HP,”
General Counsel  Michael Holston  said earlier today. The stock
plunged 9.3 percent in late trading after the announcement.  
 Allred, who specializes in discrimination suits, has
represented clients in cases involving O.J. Simpson, Scott
Peterson and  Charlie Sheen .  
 The company’s probe found that Hurd had a personal
relationship with the contractor, who received pay from HP that
wasn’t business-related.  
 Hurd submitted receipts for expenses ranging from $1,000 to
$20,000 over two years, including meals and travel, that should
have been labeled as personal and not related to business, said
a person familiar with the situation.  
 ‘CEO Forums’  
 The expenses were incurred at  HP -hosted “CEO forums,”
mostly in North America, in which Hurd participated, this person
said. Hurd, who is married and has two children, intends to pay
the company back the entire amount.  
 Hurd didn’t have a romantic or sexual relationship with the
woman, who worked as a contractor hosting these events, this
person said. Discussions of Hurd’s departure began last month,
the person said.  
 Gina Tyler , an HP spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond
what HP said during a conference call and in statements.  
 Hewlett-Packard fell $4.31 to $41.99 in extended trading.
The  shares , down 10 percent this year, dropped 5 cents to $46.30
earlier today on the New York Stock Exchange.  
 Chief Financial Officer  Cathie Lesjak , 51, will take over
as interim CEO while the board seeks a permanent replacement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        