-- U.S. Economy Improving, More Stimulus Isn't the Answer, Rubin, O'Neill Say
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-08-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-07/u-s-economy-improving-more-stimulus-isn-t-the-answer-rubin-o-neill-say.html

          
          
             The U.S. economy will improve slowly
and another round of fiscal stimulus probably wouldn’t be
effective, former Treasury secretaries  Paul O’Neill  and  Robert Rubin  said.  
 Rubin, who served under Democratic President  Bill Clinton ,
said the U.S. is “going to have slow and bumpy growth,” an
interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” aired yesterday. A
“major second stimulus” might create more uncertainty and
undermine confidence, he said.  
 Companies concerned about demand won’t expand facilities or
hire new employees until sales have improved, said O’Neill, who
was Treasury secretary under Republican President  George W. Bush . “We are moving forward at a pretty gradual pace,” he
said. “But I don’t think things are terrible.”  
 The world’s largest economy may be cooling in the second
half of the year as a scarcity of jobs limits consumer spending.
At the same time, concern about the surging fiscal deficit has
prompted President  Barack Obama  to urge lawmakers to let the
Bush administration tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans expire
this year.  
 While Rubin backed Obama’s stance, O’Neill reiterated that
he strongly opposed the Bush tax cuts of 2003 and said the
president and U.S. lawmakers need to focus on overhauling the
entire tax system rather than on the expiring cuts.  
 Not ‘Intelligent People’  
 “The tax code we have is proof we’re not an intelligent
people,” said O’Neill, a senior adviser and consultant to New
York-based Blackstone Group LP. “The president could earn a lot
of credit and he could make a huge difference if he would lead
the charge for fundamental tax reform,” which might include a
“consumption-based tax.”  
 Obama wants to let the tax cuts expire for households
earning more than $250,000 a year and maintain them for
households earning less than that. The tax reductions, enacted
in 2001 and 2003, expire on Dec. 31. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the government can’t afford to extend tax
reductions for the wealthiest group, as the breaks don’t pay for
themselves in economic growth.  
 Rubin said he’d create an estate tax, increase taxes for
the top two brackets of upper-income Americans and leave in
place the middle-class tax rates “for a limited period”
because economic growth will take time to quicken. He would also
try “over the next six months to put in place a very serious
beginning of deficit reduction that would take effect at some
specified time in the future.”  
 Delay Elimination  
 Rubin urged delaying the elimination of tax cuts on the
middle class because of the “vulnerability” of the economy and
the high unemployment rate.  
 The economy grew at a slower-than-projected 2.4 percent
pace in the second quarter as consumer spending slowed and the
trade deficit widened, government data showed on July 30. U.S.
companies in July hired fewer workers than forecast, and
economists in a Bloomberg News survey project  unemployment  will
be slow to recede after reaching a 26-year high of 10.1 percent
in October 2009.  
 O’Neill advocated steps to help Americans see a brighter
future. Something “simple” such as a value-added tax instead
of the income tax and corporate income tax “would give
reassurance to the markets that we’re coming back” and spur
investment and savings, he said.  
 Jobless Rate  
 Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by
71,000 in July after a June gain of 31,000 that was smaller than
previously reported, according to Labor Department figures
released in Washington Aug 6. Overall employment fell by
131,000, reflecting the dismissal of temporary census workers,
and the jobless rate held at 9.5 percent.  
 The Clinton presidency, when 22.8 million jobs were
created, “was a remarkable period” and the president “was
terrific on economic policy,” Rubin said. The country is in a
much different position now, he said in response to a question
about how the U.S. could create jobs more rapidly.  
 “Obama has done a lot, given the current circumstances in
which he has been operating,” Rubin said. “But he now faces
these enormously complex issues,” and “I think we’ve all got
to try to find some way to help make the system work better.”  
 The weak July payrolls report intensified a debate among
economists over whether Federal Reserve policy makers will take
an incremental step this week toward providing more stimulus.
U.S. central bankers said in June that additional monetary
stimulus “might become appropriate” if the economic outlook
“were to worsen appreciably.”  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last month said the central
bank is prepared to take further policy actions if the economy
“doesn’t continue to improve.” Bernanke said last month the
Fed may at some point maintain stimulus by investing the
proceeds from maturing bonds into U.S. Treasuries.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net 
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. Economy on Slow Path to Improvement, O'Neill Says  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Paul O'Neill said President Obama could "make a huge difference" if he advocated tax oveerhaul. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Paul O'Neill said President Obama could "make a huge difference" if he advocated tax oveerhaul. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 9 (Bloomberg) -- Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin, who served under Democratic President Bill Clinton, said on CNN's “Fareed Zakaria GPS" that the U.S. economy will improve slowly and a “major second stimulus” might create uncertainty and undermine confidence. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
