-- Vale's Indonesia Nickel Unit May Cut Output on Power
-- Chanyaporn Chanjaroen
-- 2006-12-14T15:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-14/vale-s-indonesia-nickel-unit-may-cut-output-on-power-update1-.html

          
          
             Cia. Vale do Rio Doce, which bought
Canadian nickel producer Inco Ltd. this year, may cut production at
its Indonesian unit from around Dec. 20 because of a power shortage.  
 PT International Nickel Indonesia (INCO) , the country's largest
nickel producer, may miss the 2006 production target of 71,000
metric tons as lower-than-average rainfall since October reduced
electricity at the company's hydroelectric power generator,
according to an e-mailed statement.  
 ``Given the unpredictability of weather patterns, it is not
possible for PT Inco to estimate the production impact of current
low reservoir levels at this time,'' the Jakarta-based company
said in the statement.  
 Prices of nickel, used in stainless-steel production, have
more than doubled this year partly because of output disruptions
around the world. Eramet SA, which owns the world's largest
ferronickel smelter in  New Caledonia , has reduced production by
50 tons a day because of a strike that started Sept. 25.  
 PT Inco's production already dropped 13 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier after one of the company's furnaces
was destroyed by a fire in May. The company resumed operations in
mid-August.  
 ``If lower-than-average rainfall persists over a period of
several weeks, the company may need to make more significant
production cuts in order to raise the levels of its reservoirs,''
it said.  
 PT Inco said it produces around 1,400 tons to 1,500 tons of
nickel-in-matte, or the material for refining, each week.  
 The company may bring forward maintenance activities
originally scheduled for during a planned shutdown at the end of
the first quarter to mitigate the production decline.  
 Nickel for delivery in three months on the  London  Metal
Exchange advanced as much as $1,600, or 4.8 percent, to $34,850 a
ton today, the highest since at least 1987.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        