-- Toshiba to give up on HD DVD, end format war: source
-- By  Mayumi Negishi  and Kentaro Hamada
-- Sat Feb 16, 2008 10:40am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/16/businesspro-toshiba-hd-dvd-dc-idUSL1643184420080216

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - Toshiba Corp ( 6502.T ) is planning to give 
up on its HD DVD format for high definition DVDs, conceding 
defeat to the competing Blu-Ray technology backed by Sony Corp 
( 6758.T ), a company source said on Saturday. 

  The move will likely put an end to a battle that has gone 
on for several years between consortiums led by Toshiba and 
Sony vying to set the standard for the next-generation DVD and 
compatible video equipment.  The format war, often compared to the Betamax-VHS battle in 
the 1980s, has confused consumers unsure of which DVD or player 
to buy, slowing the development what is expected to be a 
multibillion dollar high definition DVD industry.  Toshiba's cause has suffered several setbacks in recent 
weeks including Friday's announcement by U.S. retailing giant 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc ( WMT.N ) that it would abandon the HD DVD 
format and only stock its shelves with Blu-ray movies.  A source at Toshiba confirmed an earlier report by public 
broadcaster NHK that it was getting ready to pull the plug.  "We have entered the final stage of planning to make our 
exit from the next generation DVD business," said the source, 
who asked not to be identified. He added that an official 
announcement could come as early as next week.  No one answered the phone at Toshiba's public relations 
office in Tokyo.  NHK said Toshiba would suffer losses running to tens of 
billions of yen (hundreds of millions of dollars) to scrap 
production of HD DVD players and recorders and other steps to 
withdraw from the business.  Hollywood studios had initially split their alliances 
between the two camps, meaning only certain films would play on 
any one DVD machine.  The balance of power tipped decisively toward the Sony camp 
in January after Time Warner Inc's ( TWX.N ) Warner Bros studio 
said it would only release high-definition DVDs in Blu-ray 
format. With that, studios behind some three-quarters of DVDs 
are backing Blu-ray, although some release in both formats.  Toshiba responded by slashing prices of HD DVD players, but 
the loss of retail support has hurt.  In addition to Wal-Mart, consumer electronics chain Best 
Buy Co Inc ( BBY.N ) and online video rental company Netflix Inc 
( NFLX.O ) also recently signed up to the Blu-ray camp.  The exclusive backing of Microsoft Corp ( MSFT.O ) was also 
put in doubt when the software giant said in January that it 
could consider supporting Blu-ray technology for its Xbox 360 
video game machine, which currently works only with HD DVD.  Sony has spent large sums of money to promote Blu-ray in 
tandem with its flat screen TVs and its PlayStation 3 game 
console, which can play Blu-ray movies.  The Toshiba source said the experience would not be a total 
loss for the sprawling conglomerate, whose products range from 
refrigerators to power plants, which would learn valuable 
lessons.  "Marketing was a weak point for Toshiba. We learned a lot 
from HD DVD. Strengthening marketing will continue to be an 
issue for us going forward," the source said.  (Reporting by Mayumi Negishi, Kentaro Hamada and Nathan 
Layne, editing by Mike Peacock)