-- Al-Rajhi Bank Says Profit Climbs 0.5%, Cites `Conservative' Provisioning
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-07-10T14:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/al-rajhi-second-quarter-net-rises-0-5-to-470-million-provisions-weigh.html

          
          
             Al-Rajhi Bank , Saudi Arabia’s biggest
lender by market value, said second-quarter profit increased 0.5
percent as the Islamic lender maintained its “conservative”
provisioning policies against bad loans.  
 Net income advanced to 1.78 billion riyals ($470 million)
from 1.77 billion riyals in the year-earlier period, the Riyadh-
based bank said in a statement on the  Saudi bourse website 
today. That beat the 1.73 billion-riyal median  estimate  of four
analysts.  
 Increased provisions for bad loans and tightened lending
have curbed earnings at Saudi banks since the global credit
crisis and economic slowdown.  Riyad Bank , the third-largest bank
in the kingdom, and Bank Al-Jazira reported declines today in
second-quarter profit.  
 Second-quarter profit improved, compared with the previous
quarter, because “of an increase in customer deposits and the
diversification of bank’s financial and investment products,”
the bank said in the statement. “The bank pursued its
conservative policy by increasing provisions.”  
 Al-Rajhi  shares gained  2 percent to 76.5 riyals today in
Riyadh, valuing the company at 114.8 billion riyals. The stock
has advanced 7.4 percent this year. The earnings were announced
after the trading session.  
 Loan Growth  
 Banks in the Arab world’s largest economy had been
reluctant to resume lending even after the central bank cut
interest rates and the government announced a $400 billion
spending program to boost the economy.  
 Saudi Arabian bank lending to businesses rose in May at the
fastest pace in nine months, indicating a gradual return to
credit availability. Lending to the private sector increased an
annual 3.9 percent in May, up from 2.4 percent in April, the
 Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency , the country’s central bank, said
on its website last month.  
 “Loan growth remains more or less flat, and has yet to
recover, which isn’t a surprise,”  Murad Ansari , a Riyadh-based
equity analyst at EFG Hermes KSA, said today. “We expected a
similar trend in the second quarter of 2010 as the first.”  
 Al-Rajhi Bank’s lending increased 5.4 percent to 118
billion riyals as of June 30, while investments increased 15
percent to 30 billion riyals, the bank said in the statement.
Deposits rose 9.8 percent to 135 billion riyals as of June 30.  
 Al-Rajhi Bank  said it plans to pay a first-half dividend of
1.5 riyals a share, up from 1.25 riyals a year ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        