-- Apple Opens Shanghai Store to Spur Sales in China
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-10T07:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/apple-opens-second-store-in-china-to-spur-sales-in-fastest-growing-economy.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.  opened its second China
store today as the maker of iPhones and iMacs seeks to catch
rivals including  Nokia Oyj  and  Lenovo Group Ltd.  in the
fastest-growing major economy.  
 Several hundred people lined up outside a 40-foot
cylindrical glass wall that contains the Apple logo at the
1,500-square-meter (16,000-square-foot) store in the Pudong
district of Shanghai, China’s financial hub, before it opened
at 10 a.m. local time.  
 “Apple stands for a lifestyle,” said a 27-year-old
salesman who called himself “Penguin,” from the northern
Chinese province of Jilin, more than 2,000 kilometers (1,243
miles) from Shanghai. He waited as the first in the queues for
almost 70 hours.  
 Apple is expanding its network to reach more customers in
China, where its sales trail Nokia and Lenovo, and said this
week it plans “many” more Apple stores for China. The
company’s first China store opened in Beijing in July 2008.  
 The products are “quite special,” said Zhu Chenqi, a 23-
year-old administrative secretary who has spent 30,000 yuan to
40,000 yuan ($4,429-$5,906) on Apple products. “In the first
place you would be caught by its look and then you would be
impressed by its easy applications.”  
 While the store attracts a variety of customers from
teenagers to grandfathers, most visitors are well-dressed and
in their 20s and 30s, like most of the 175 vendors at Shanghai
Apple.  
 More than 80 percent of the vendors have university
degrees and some of them were lawyers and teachers, local media
reported.  
 Unlicensed Distributers  
 Unlicensed distributors sold more than 2 million iPhones
on a so-called gray market, according to  Sandy Shen , an analyst
at Gartner Inc. in Shanghai.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. , the
only authorized Chinese carrier offering the smartphone, sold
fewer than 1 million, she said.  
 “The conditions are not in place for Apple in China at
the moment, as it doesn’t have the sales channels and
distribution,” said  Aloysius Choong , an analyst at research
firm IDC in Singapore. “The reports of the gray market
activities for Apple’s products in China shows there is good
inherent demand for them.”  
 The iPhone 3G S, Apple’s top model, sells for 6,999 yuan
in China Unicom’s stores, according to the carrier’s website.
Chinese consumers can buy the smartphone for less from grey
market vendors, Shen said. The same model costs $299 with an
AT&T Inc. plan in Apple’s online store in the U.S.  
 Nokia, Lenovo  
 Nokia’s retail network in China comprises more than
100,000 outlets, said  Cherry Gong , a China-based spokeswoman at
the company. Lenovo, maker of Thinkpad laptops, has more than
10,000 retail outlets in the country, said spokesman  Jay Chen .  
 Smartphone shipments may increase 50 percent to 26 million
this year in China, where Nokia is the market leader, IDC’s
Choong said. Lenovo is the biggest personal-computer maker in
China, according to IDC data.  
 Cupertino, California-based Apple overtook Microsoft Corp.
as the world’s most valuable technology company in May after
gaining sales in the U.S. and European consumer electronic
markets. The company’s shares have gained 23 percent this year,
compared with a 3.3 percent decline by the benchmark Standard
and Poor’s 500 Index.  
 -- Mark Lee ,  Alfred Cang . Editors:  Paul Tighe ,  Jim McDonald   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lines of people wait for the official opening of the Apple Inc. store in Shanghai, China, on Saturday, July 10, 2010. Apple Inc. opened its second China store today as the maker of iPhones and iMacs seeks to catch rivals including Nokia Oyj and Lenovo Group Ltd. in the fastest-growing major economy. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     People enter the Apple Inc. store in Shanghai, China, on Saturday, July 10, 2010. Apple Inc. opened its second China store today as the maker of iPhones and iMacs seeks to catch rivals including Nokia Oyj and Lenovo Group Ltd. in the fastest-growing major economy. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     People walk outside the Apple Inc. store in Shanghai, China, on Saturday, July 10, 2010. Apple Inc. opened its second China store today as the maker of iPhones and iMacs seeks to catch rivals including Nokia Oyj and Lenovo Group Ltd. in the fastest-growing major economy. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
