-- Australia Will Send Team to East Timor to Discuss Plan for Refugee Center
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-07-11T06:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/australia-foreign-minister-says-still-in-talks-with-east-timor-on-refugees.html

          
          
             Australia will send a delegation to
East Timor this week as it pursues a plan to open a refugee
processing center in the Southeast Asian nation to cope with a
surge in asylum seekers arriving by boat.  
 East Timor is the only nation Australia has approached to
open a such a bureau, Foreign Minister  Stephen Smith  told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. television today. More than 3,500
people have arrived in Australia on 75 boats this year,
Immigration Department figures show, compared with 2,726 on 60
boats in 2009.  
 Julia Gillard , who became prime minister on June 24,
announced plans for the center last week, as she seeks to modify
the government’s border control policy before an election is
held this year. East Timor, which borders part of Indonesia on
an island about 500 kilometers (310 miles) north of Australia,
hasn’t approved the plan. The country became independent in 2002.  
 “We will be sending officials to East Timor in the course
of this week to start a detailed discussion,” Smith said.
“We’ve got to try and find a regional solution to this very
difficult problem.”  
 Gillard last week said she wants to “wreck” the people
smuggling trade, the second of three key issues she identified
when she became prime minister. The others are an agreement on a
proposed mining tax that was announced July 2 and reaching
“consensus” on action to tackle climate change.  
 Opposition’s Policy  
 The government’s East Timor proposal was released the same
day opposition leader  Tony Abbott  updated his policy.  
 Abbott has pledged to re-establish processing centers
offshore for asylum applications, refuse claims from those who
discard their identification and turn back refugee boats if his
coalition wins the election.  
 Australia will hold a federal election some time before the
end of 2010, Gillard said last month.  
 As of July 1, there were 2,573 people in detention on
Christmas Island, an Australian territory more than 800
kilometers off the northwestern coast.  
 About 1,503 people, who arrived by boat were transferred to
mainland detention centers in Sydney, Darwin, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Perth and regional centers in Curtin and Leonora in
Western Australia and Port Augusta in South Australia state.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        