-- Australian Soldier Killed By Roadside Bomb Blast on Patrol in Afghanistan
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-07-10T05:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/australian-soldier-killed-by-roadside-bomb-blast-on-patrol-in-afghanistan.html

          
          
             An Australian soldier was killed in
Afghanistan in a roadside bomb blast last night while he was on
patrol in Uruzgan province.  
 Another soldier with the 1st Mentoring Task Force, who
suffered “minor wounds” when an improvised explosive device
detonated, is receiving medical treatment at Tarin Kowt, the
Department of Defense said in an e-mailed  statement  today. The
dead man’s name won’t be released at his family’s request.  
 Australia, which has more than 1,500 soldiers in
Afghanistan, has lost 17 soldiers in the country since beginning
operations in the country in 2001. Most of its forces are based
in Uruzgan as part of Operation Slipper, the military’s
contribution to operations by the NATO-led International
Security Assistance Force.  
 “Overnight I was very saddened to learn that we have lost
another soldier in Afghanistan,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
told reporters in Darwin today, where she is attending the
funeral of soldier Scott Palmer who died last month. “The
danger and loss and sadness that is caused from these incidents
in Afghanistan is obviously with me and very present with me.”  
 Gillard, who became Prime Minister on June 24, said
Australia remains committed to its involvement in the
Afghanistan conflict, which it joined in the wake of the
terrorist attacks of September 2001.  
 “We pursue that mission because Afghanistan has been a
safe haven for terrorists, for terrorists who have reaped acts
of violence against Australians in 9/11 and in Bali,” Gillard
said today. “And we are determined to pursue our mission there,
to train the Afghan National Army, to end Afghanistan being a
safe haven for terrorists.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        