-- Bank of America Says $10.7 Billion of Trades Wrongly Classified
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-07-10T21:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/bank-of-america-tells-sec-that-10-7-billion-of-trades-wrongly-classified.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. , the largest
U.S. bank by assets, said it wrongly classified as much as $10.7
billion of short-term repurchase and lending transactions as
sales from 2007 to 2009 to reduce its end-of-quarter assets.  
 Bank of America said the inaccuracies aren’t material and
“don’t stem from any intentional misstatement of the
Corporation’s financial statements and was not related to any
fraud or deliberate error,” according to a May 13 letter
released yesterday from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  
 “A $10.7 billion accounting error would be a material
event for about 99.9 percent” of U.S. banks, said  Cornelius Hurley , director of the Morin Center for Banking and Financial
Law at Boston University School of Law. “It’s hard to see how
the SEC can accept BofA’s rejoinder as being sufficient.”  
 SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  
 The SEC sent letters to finance chiefs at about two dozen
firms in March asking whether they employed accounting
strategies like those at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The
bankrupt securities firm was accused of using repurchase
agreements called Repo 105s to move assets off its balance sheet
to hide leverage, thereby improving its capital ratios.  
 $2.3 Trillion  
 Bank of America had disclosed in a March 31 financial
filing that “certain sales of agency mortgage-backed securities
should have been recorded as secured borrowings rather than
sales,” bank spokesman  Jerry Dubrowski  said. “The handful of
transactions did not have a material impact on the company’s
balance sheet or earnings. They need to be viewed in the context
of our $2.3 trillion balance sheet.”  
 In April, the SEC asked Bank of America to disclose whether
its transactions were intentionally mislabeled, and to prove
that the trades were immaterial. The Charlotte, North Carolina-
based bank said in an April 13 letter that it stopped the
transactions after the first quarter of 2009, the SEC said.  
 The Bank of America transactions involved six so-called
dollar-roll trades completed during 2007, 2008 and 2009. The
amount of the trades represented 0.1 percent of total assets in
the December 2008 quarter and improved the company’s Tier 1
capital leverage ratio by one basis point, or one-hundredth of a
percentage point, during the September 2008 quarter, the bank
said.  
 Bank Review  
 The bank said in its May 13 letter it did an “extensive
review” of repurchase agreements and similar transactions and
didn’t find more errors. The mistakes didn’t affect credit
ratings or management compensation, hide any failure to meet
analysts’  consensus estimates , “mask” other trends or put the
bank out of compliance with loan and capital requirements, the
bank said.  
 Bank of America was led by Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth D. Lewis  from 2001 through the end of 2009, when he retired and
was succeeded by  Brian Moynihan . In January, Moynihan moved  Joe Price , the chief financial officer since January 2007, to run
the company’s consumer banking unit. In May, the bank hired
former Northrup Grumman Corp. executive  Charles Noski  as CFO.  
 The bank transferred mortgage-backed securities to a
trading partner with the idea of receiving different securities
later and classifying the deals as sales, the Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday. The securities the bank received
were similar to those it got rid of, meaning the transactions
can’t be considered sales, the newspaper said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net 
 David  Mildenberg in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        