-- BP Makes Progress in Changing Oil-Capture System at Leaking Well in Gulf
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-10T23:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/bp-makes-progress-in-changing-oil-capture-system-at-leaking-well-in-gulf.html

          
          
             BP Plc  is making progress on
removing a device capturing oil from its leaking Macondo well in
the Gulf of Mexico, as it makes way for a more efficient
collection system.  
 BP expects to have a new seal on the gushing well sometime
within the next seven days and it will take two to three weeks
to connect all the surface vessels involved to the wellhead.
BP’s target is to collect as much as 80,000 barrels a day, more
than the estimated amount of the leak,  Kent Wells , vice
president of exploration and production, said in a conference
call from Houston today.  
 “We’re on plan,” Wells told reporters during the
conference call after the robots under water started removing
the old installation. “All the crews and everything are set up
on rotating shifts so that we can continue operations 24 hours a
day.”  
 The process of switching caps temporarily allows the oil to
flow without restriction from the seafloor. BP is using surface
ships to capture as much as possible, said company spokesman
Mark Proegler.  
 The system to be installed includes the Helix Producer I
surface vessel and the so-called capping stack containment
mechanisms. The Helix, capable of collecting 25,000 barrels of
oil a day, will start capturing oil tomorrow, Wells said today.  
 Underwater robots are unscrewing six bolts holding the
stump of pipe left after a robot sheared away most of it June 3.
This will be followed by bolting new equipment, Wells said
today.  
 Calm Winds, Seas  
 London-based BP won National Incident Commander Admiral
 Thad Allen ’s permission to accelerate operations nearly a mile
(1,609 meters) under the ocean surface yesterday. The company is
moving quickly to take advantage of weather forecasts calling
for seven days of calm winds and seas.  
 The new links will also make it faster to disconnect the
ships in case of a tropical storm, Wells said today. Rough
waters after the passage of Hurricane Alex southwest of the well
site delayed connection of the Helix and forced more than 500
oil-skimming vessels into port.  
 Academic, commercial and government forecasters predict the
Atlantic hurricane season that began last month will be one of
the most active on record.  
 If the new cap doesn’t work, BP will replace it with an
improved version of the cap used until today, Wells said during
the call.  
 Collection Target  
 To reach the collection target, BP will reconnect the
Discoverer Enterprise drillship it has been using and add the
vessels Toisa Pisces and Clear Leader, Wells said.  
 The sealed cap improves BP’s chances of successfully
plugging the well from the bottom by injecting mud, then cement
through a relief well. With a tight seal at the top, engineers
will get accurate flow and pressure readings, clues to the
condition of the well bore, Allen said.  
 “If they have that cap in place, they have an added
advantage in trying to kill the well,” said  Don Van Nieuwenhuise , director of professional geosciences at the
University of Houston. “It should ensure the kill will work”
and assure that cement injections have a chance to set, he said.  
 BP plans to intersect the damaged well at the end of this
month, and kill it next month, Wells said today. The first
relief well has 60 feet to 70 feet more to drill to the final
casing point, he said.  
 60,000 Barrels a Day  
 As much as 60,000 barrels a day may be flowing from the
well, a committee of government and academic scientists
estimated.  
 BP, the government and outside petroleum experts have
speculated that the blowout occurred because the well bottom was
improperly sealed, allowing oil and gas to gush to the surface
around the drill pipe itself. Pressure readings may indicate
whether that occurred and suggest how BP should move to kill the
well at the bottom, Allen said.  
 Investors and analysts expect the new containment system to
be successful,  Brian Youngberg , an analyst at Edward Jones in
St. Louis who rates BP shares “sell” and owns none, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “If they have problems with
it, I think the market would view this negatively.”  
 BP rose  31 cents to $34.05 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading and has dropped 43 percent since the
incident began April 20.  
 Bigger Than Valdez  
 The disaster began when a BP well drilled by the Deepwater
Horizon rig blew out, killing 11 workers. The rig sank April 22
after burning for more than a day, leaving the mile of pipe that
had connected it to the well crumpled on the seafloor.  
 BP  collected  24,790 barrels of oil yesterday, the company
said on its website today. BP has captured about 734,000 barrels
of the estimated 2.9 million to 5 million barrels that have
leaked since April, the company said.  
 When the Exxon Valdez tanker ran aground in Prince William
Sound in 1989, 262,000 barrels of oil were spilled into the
waters off Alaska, according to statistics from the  American
Petroleum Institute .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        