-- China's Trade Surplus Widens, Adding Pressure on Yuan
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-10T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/china-june-trade-surplus-20-02-billion-exports-rise-44-customs-says.html

          
          
             China’s trade surplus widened to
the highest this year and exports climbed more than estimated
to a record in June, adding pressure on the government to let
the currency gain after the U.S. said the yuan “remains
undervalued.”  
 The gap  increased 140 percent to $20.02 billion from a
year earlier, the nation’s customs bureau said yesterday. That 
compares with the $15.6 billion  median estimate  of 24 economists 
Bloomberg News surveyed. Exports surged 44 percent and  import  
growth moderated for the third month, rising 34 percent.  
 U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said July 8 he
will “closely” monitor the yuan’s appreciation after China
scrapped a two-year peg to the dollar and allowed a 0.8 percent
advance in the past three weeks. Policy makers in the world’s
biggest exporting nation may be reluctant to step up gains
while Europe’s debt woes threaten demand, even as the bureau
said trade has “recovered” to levels before the global crisis.  
 The surplus “points to the need for Chinese authorities
to allow continued appreciation of the yuan against the U.S.
dollar, given their pledge to allow market forces to determine
the exchange rate,”  Wang Qing , a Hong Kong-based economist at
Morgan Stanley, said. He estimates the yuan will gain 4 percent
by the end of this year and 6 percent next year.  
 Currency Gains  
 China took a “significant step” last month when it began
to allow markets to drive the currency higher, the Treasury
Department said in a report to Congress released July 8, after
postponing the release in April. It’s not yet clear whether the
policy shift will correct the yuan’s undervaluation, it said.  
 New York Democrat Senator  Charles Schumer  called the
report “disappointing,” saying “it’s clear it will take an
act of Congress to do the obvious and call China out for its
currency manipulation.”  
 Trade “has recovered to pre-crisis levels,” Zheng
Yuesheng, head of the customs bureau’s statistics department
said in an interview on state television yesterday after the
release of the data, echoing the views of some economists that
the European sovereign-debt crisis has yet to impact overseas
sales.  
 Exports to the U.S. and European Union jumped by more than
40 percent for the second month, and exports to Russia climbed
84 percent in June, according to the statement. Shipments to
Brazil, which more than doubled in April and May, surged by
125 percent last month.  
 Record Exports  
 Signs that global trade remains buoyant include a report
by container-shipping line  AP Moller-Maersk A/S  of shortages of
cargo boxes. The International Monetary Fund last week raised
its 2010 global growth forecast to 4.6 percent from an April
estimate of 4.2 percent.  
 The value of China’s  outbound shipments  rose to a record
$137.4 billion in June, the customs bureau said. The previous
high was $136.68 billion in July 2008, before the global
financial crisis deepened. The 43.9 percent expansion compared
with the median 38 percent forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of 24 economists.  
 “We suspect stronger-than-expected exports might be the
result of the frontloading of commodity-intensive product
exports as a result of the VAT rebate policy change,” Goldman
Sachs economist  Song Yu  wrote in a note yesterday.  
 Export tax rebates for a number of goods including some
steel products will be removed from July 15, the finance
ministry said last month.  
 Export Rebates  
 Steel-product exports more than doubled in the first six
months from a year earlier to 23.6 million tons, the customs
bureau said yesterday, without giving a year-earlier comparison
for June.  
 “Exports may maintain relatively fast growth this quarter
but downside risks may increase in the last quarter as the
government gradually exits its export aid policies and
shipments are more affected by the yuan’s appreciation and the
European debt crisis,” said  Jinny Yan , a Shanghai-based
economist at Standard Chartered Plc.  
 Imports climbed to $117.4 billion in June, the third
highest this year, the customs bureau said. The 34.1 percent
gain compares with the median forecast of 35.4 percent in the
Bloomberg survey.  
 “Lower-than-expected import growth is a reflection of
lower import volume amid weakening domestic demand as well as
falling import prices,” Goldman Sachs’ Song said.  
 Slower Investment  
 Iron ore and copper imports fell in June from May, the
third straight monthly decline, the data showed. China is
the largest buyer of the steel-making ingredient.  
 Average  monthly trade surpluses  may remain in a range of
$10 billion to $15 billion later in the year, as a government-
driven moderation in domestic investment leads to a bigger
slowdown in imports, according to  Wang Qian , Hong Kong-based
chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Surging demand in China for commodities including iron ore
and oil drove a 60 percent decline in the trade surplus to
$35.4 billion in the first five months. In the first half of
the year, the surplus declined 43 percent from the same period
last year to $55.3 billion, the customs bureau said yesterday.  
 The nation’s  manufacturing  growth eased for a second month
in June and a raw-material inventory index contracted, a
purchasing managers’ survey released by the Federation of
Logistics & Purchasing showed July 1. The report indicated a
“sharp” decline in orders in industries including oil and
metal processing.  
 Cooler Economy  
 Economic growth  may gradually decelerate to 9 percent in
the fourth quarter of this year, after an 11.9 percent
expansion in the January-March period from a year earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. The statistics
bureau is due to announce second-quarter gross domestic product
data this week.  
 Concerns that the pace of expansion is cooling may damp
market expectations for rapid currency gains, JPMorgan’s Wang
said. Non-deliverable forwards suggest traders are betting the
yuan will appreciate 1.7 percent in the coming year.  
 -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Jay Wang  in Singapore.
Editors:  Nerys Avery ,  Stephanie Phang   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wang Qing, Morgan Stanley's chief economist of greater China, estimates the yuan will gain 4 percent by the end of this year and 6 percent next year. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
