-- Iron Ore Imports by China Drop for Third Month in June on Slowing Demand
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-10T06:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/china-iron-ore-imports-fall-for-third-month-amid-weakening-producer-demand.html

          
          
             Iron ore imports  by China, the
largest buyer, fell for a third month as steel prices slide
amid weakening demand from automakers and builders. Exports of
steel products gained to the highest level since September 2008.  
 Imports dropped 9 percent to 47.2 million metric tons in
June from 51.9 million tons in May, according to data provided
by the General Administration of Customs today. Imports fell 15
percent from 55.3 million tons a year earlier.  
 Chinese steel prices  have fallen 17 percent from an 18-
month high on April 15 following government moves to curb
property speculation. Jiangsu Shagang Group Co. and Nanjing
Iron & Steel Co. have put off iron ore purchases after prices
dropped, choosing to run down inventories.  
 “The third quarter doesn’t look good for the steel and
iron ore market,” said Helen Lau, a Hong Kong-based analyst
with UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “Steel producers and traders are
reluctant to place orders for ore.”  
 Chinese steelmakers are likely to cut output this quarter
because of weak demand from auto and appliance makers, Xu
Lejiang, chairman of Baosteel Group Corp., the country’s
second-biggest mill, said on June 8. Steelmakers may default on
quarterly iron ore contracts, he said, while saying his company
would respect the agreements.  
 Steel-product  exports  climbed 13.8 percent from May to
5.62 million tons, the highest level since September 2008,
according to Bloomberg data. Shipments in the first six months
more than doubled on the year to 23.6 million tons, it said.  
 ‘Exports Unsustainable’  
 “We don’t believe that exports at current levels are at
all sustainable for more than another month or two,” said
 Michelle Applebaum , an independent steel analyst in Chicago.
“As raw material costs continue to spiral skyward, the cash
costs of running a steel mill in China have escalated to the
point that for the Chinese to be dumping high-cost steel into
other markets is like turning ‘gold into straw.’”  
 China’s average import price for iron ore in the first
half increased 47 percent to $111.5 per metric ton, the customs
agency said today. China’s iron ore imports rose 4.1 percent
from a year earlier to 309.3 million tons in the first half of
this year, customs said.  
 -- Helen Yuan , with assistance from Winnie Zhu in Shanghai.
Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann , Richard Dobson, Jim McDonald.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        