-- China Boosts Net Oil Imports to Record 22.14 Million Metric Tons in June
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-10T04:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/china-boosts-net-oil-imports-to-record-22-14-million-metric-tons-in-june.html

          
          
             China, the world’s second-biggest
oil consumer, increased net crude-oil imports to a record in
June as demand rose and costs fell.  
 Net purchases climbed to 22.14 million metric tons, or
about 5.39 million barrels a day, from 17.65 million tons a
month earlier, according to preliminary  data  released by the
General Administration of Customs today. This was more than the
previous record of 20.98 million tons in April.  
 Oil-product demand rises in China between July and
September on summer demand for fuels including gasoline and
diesel. The country is also increasing purchases to take
advantage of lower costs than in May, said  Qiu Xiaofeng , chief
oil analyst with China Merchants Securities Ltd.  
 “State refineries would have increased crude purchases as
oil costs dropped, also after they reduced imports quite a bit
in May,” Qiu said by mobile phone in Shanghai today, “We don’t
think the crude imports will sustain such strong growth in the
second half as demand is poised to be hurt by the cooling
economy.”  
 China paid an average $77.20 for each barrel of crude in
June, down from $82.50 a barrel in May, according to Bloomberg
calculations. May purchases dropped 16 percent from April to a
four-month low of 17.84 million tons.  
 Purchases of crude oil in the first half rose 30 percent
from a year earlier to 117.97 million tons, according to today’s
data.  
 Storage Tanks  
 The country may also boost imports for stockpiling, said
Standard Chartered Bank commodity analyst  Judy Zhu . “Crude oil
imports remained robust by rising 34 percent year-on-year, in
line with our expectation that China will remain active in the
global crude-oil market to feed its state oil reserves this
year,” Zhu said in an e-mailed note today.  
 China last year started building storage tanks of crude
reserve in a second phase development. The first phase holds the
equivalent of about 16.4 million cubic meters of oil, or about
30 days of net imports, the nation’s top energy administration
said last June.  
 China’s passenger-car sales to dealerships rose at the
slowest pace in 15 months in June, adding to signs that the
world’s third-largest economy is cooling. June power consumption
growth eased “sharply” on a high comparison base last year and
as demand from heavy industries showed signs of slowing,
Shanghai Securities News said July 5, citing energy authorities
it didn’t name. Demand growth in July and August may also slow
“significantly,” the newspaper said.  
 Imports of oil products including gasoline and diesel
reached 3.31 million tons, compared with 3.18 million tons in
May, while exports totaled 2.15 million tons, from 2.69 million
tons. The nation was a net importer of oil products last month.  
 The world’s biggest producer of coal exported 1.27 million
tons of the fuel last month. The customs department didn’t
provide coal import numbers in today’s release.  
 -- Winnie Zhu , with assistance from  Feiwen Rong  in Beijing.
Editors:  Richard Dobson ,  John McCluskey .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        