-- Diamond Offshore's Request to Join Drilling-Ban Lawsuit Unopposed by U.S.
-- Allen Johnson Jr.
-- 2010-07-10T02:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/diamond-offshore-s-request-to-join-drilling-ban-lawsuit-unopposed-by-u-s-.html

          
          
             The U.S. Justice Department said it
doesn’t oppose  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. ’s emergency motion
to join a lawsuit against a six-month ban on deep-water oil
drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Government lawyers today asked a judge to require Houston-
based Diamond Offshore to “avoid duplication” of legal filings
by other oil services companies suing Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  in federal court in New Orleans.  
 Diamond Offshore said in its June 24 request to join the
 drilling suit  that many of its 5,000 employees live in Texas,
Mississippi, Alabama and Louisiana. Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Dickerson  said today that its Ocean Endeavor drilling rig
would be moved from the Gulf to Egypt.  
 “With new contracting severely restricted in the Gulf of
Mexico as a result of uncertainties surrounding the offshore
drilling moratorium, we are actively seeking international
opportunities to keep our rigs fully employed,” Dickerson said
in a statement. “We deeply regret the loss of U.S. jobs.”  
 Dickerson said the Endeavor’s new contract with Burullus
Gas Co. runs through June 30, 2011, and is expected to generate
revenue of $100 million.  
 On July 8, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
in New Orleans rejected the government’s request to reinstate
the moratorium while it appeals a lower-court decision lifting
the ban. Salazar ordered the temporary drilling ban, saying it
was needed to ensure against a repeat of the oil spill that
followed the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig in April.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com .  
          
          


  


        