-- LeBron James Fathead Price Cut Is Sparked by Birthyear of Benedict Arnold
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-07-10T03:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/lebron-james-fathead-price-cut-is-sparked-by-birthyear-of-benedict-arnold.html

          
          
             LeBron James’s  decision to leave the
Cleveland Cavaliers for the Miami Heat gave the team’s owner the
idea of having a Benedict Arnold sale of memorabilia.  
 A company held by Cavaliers owner  Dan Gilbert  -- who last
called James’s decision an act of cowardly betrayal -- cut the
price of James memorabilia to $17.41, echoing the year of
Arnold’s birth.  
 Gilbert’s Fathead LLC had sold life-size wall stickers of
James in a Cavaliers uniform for as much as $99.99. Arnold was a
colonial army officer who  offered to surrender  West Point to the
British for money during the Revolutionary War.  
 “Isn’t that the year Handel premiered ‘The Messiah?’”
Todd Lunsford, president of the Livonia, Michigan-based company,
said in an e-mail. “Oh yeah, and the whole Benedict Arnold
thing, too.”  
 James, the two-time reigning Most Valuable Player of the
National Basketball Association, announced July 8 that he would
join  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  on the Heat after seven seasons
playing for his hometown team. Less than two hours later,
Gilbert said in a letter to fans posted on the team website that
James’s decision was a “shocking act of disloyalty.”  
 “You simply don’t deserve this kind of cowardly
betrayal,” wrote Gilbert, the founder and chairman of Quicken
Loans Inc. “This shocking act of disloyalty from our home grown
‘chosen one’ sends the exact opposite lesson of what we would
want our children to learn. And ‘who’ we would want them to
grow-up to become.”  
 An e-mail to Maverick Carter, James’s business manager,
seeking comment was unanswered.  
 Lunsford said the company had more than 1,000 of the James-
in-a-Cavaliers-uniform stickers in stock. Normally three to five
a day are sold in July, he said. More than 250 were sold
yesterday.  
 “We were just looking to make the best of a bad
situation,” Lunsford said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Rothbard  at   brothbard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        