-- LeBron James Models Miami Heat Uniform With Wade, Bosh at Fan Celebration
-- Nancy Kercheval
-- 2010-07-10T03:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/lebron-james-models-miami-heat-uniform-with-wade-bosh-at-fan-celebration.html

          
          
             LeBron James  modeled the No. 6 on
his new Miami Heat uniform as he,  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh 
celebrated their union with 13,000 fans at American Airlines
Arena.  
 After more than an hour of music and dancing, interspersed
with clips of past performances of basketball players, the trio
made their entrance last night to “How You Like Me Now.” It
was a day after the National Basketball Association’s two-time
Most Valuable Player disclosed his decision to leave Cleveland
and join Wade and Bosh in Miami.  
 “It feels right to be in this position to wear this
uniform,” James said. “We’re going to make the world know the
Heat is back.”  
 Wade said playing with James and Bosh was better than “a
dream-come-true.”  
 The three won gold medals for the U.S. team at the 2008
Beijing Olympics, and they talked frequently before and during
the free-agency period that began July 1.  
 “You always want to put yourself in the best position
possible,” Wade told the crowd. “To have an opportunity to
team up with arguably the best trio to ever play the game of
basketball is amazing.”  
 Wade and Bosh made public their decision to play together
on July 7. James decided the following morning that he would
shun five other suitors, including the Cavaliers for whom he
played for seven seasons, in favor of the Heat.  
 “I’m not going to lie to you. When I heard about the
possibility the three of us could be playing together, I had to
go home and think about it,” Bosh said. “It’s all about family
here. This is a world-class organization.”  
 As the three took center stage and accepted keys to the
cities of South Beach and Miami, the fans cheered and waved
posters of the trio that said, “Yes. We did.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        