-- Economy to Weigh on State Budgets in 2011, Fed Economist Tells Governors
-- Michael McDonald
-- 2010-07-10T22:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/economy-to-weigh-on-state-budgets-in-2011-fed-economist-tells-governors.html

          
          
             Tepid economic growth and demands
for aid from ailing U.S. cities and towns will combine to make
next year “just as tough” for state budget makers, according
to  Yolanda Kodrzycki , an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank
of Boston.  
 States have closed budget deficits totaling about $169
billion since July 2008 and still face a combined $127 billion
gap through fiscal 2012, according to a  report  last month by the
 National Governors Association  and the National Association of
State Budget Officers.  
 Fiscal recovery will be weighed down by “lackluster”
economic growth of about 3 percent a year and the need to help
local governments confronting falling property tax collections,
Kodrzycki told governors gathered today in Boston.  
 “Next year is going to be just as tough” for balancing
state budgets, Kodrzycki said on a panel on economic development
at the National Governors Association meeting. Even if economic
growth quickens, it’s not completely “translating into fiscal
recovery,” she said.  
 The housing market will also weigh more on states because
their cities and towns face “much greater weakness in property
tax revenues than we’ve seen to date,” she said. Property tax
collections dropped in the first quarter for the first time
since the onset of the real-estate market’s crash, to $107.7
billion from $108.4 billion a year earlier, the Census Bureau
 said  on June 29.  
 Double-Dip Recession  
 Local governments count on property taxes for most of their
revenue while states depend on income and sales taxes. Cities
and towns will be demanding more local aid from their state
lawmakers next year, Kodrzycki said  
 South Carolina Governor  Mark Sanford  said the “worst is
yet to come” for the states because the economy is bound to
fall back into a recession as government spending contracts both
in the U.S. and elsewhere.  
 Kodrzycki said researchers at the Fed have become “much
more sensitive” to the prospect of a so-called double-dip
recession. She said the economy needs to grow at an annual
average rate of about 4 percent in order for the unemployment
rate to fall back to 5 percent by 2015.  
 “The road to economic recovery is a long one,” she said.
“It’s a sobering picture.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        