-- Egyptian June Inflation Accelerates to 10.7% as Food Prices Advance
-- Alaa Shahine
-- 2010-07-10T06:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/egypt-s-june-inflation-little-changed-ends-four-month-slowdown-streak.html

          
          
             Egyptian inflation was little
changed in June after easing for four months in a row,
supporting the central bank’s decision to hold interest rates at
a four-year low.  
 Urban inflation, the main rate monitored by the central
bank, was 10.7 percent compared with 10.5 percent in May,
according to the website of the Cairo-based  Central Agency for
Public Mobilization and Statistics.  The median forecast of six
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 10.6 percent. Prices rose
0.5 percent month-on-month.  
 “I certainly see no justification for the central bank to
act on interest rates before the fourth quarter of 2010,”  Simon Williams , chief Middle East economist at HSBC Holding Plc in
Dubai. “If anything the rate rise should come later not earlier
than that point,” he said by telephone. He had forecast
inflation at 10.7 percent.  
 The central bank said last month that while inflation was
“elevated” because of high fruit and vegetable prices, it
remained subdued enough to keep interest rates unchanged. The
 central bank  cut interest rates six times in 2009 to support
economic growth in the most populous Arab country.  
 The central bank’s key rate, the overnight deposit rate,
is 8.25 percent now.   
 The economy expanded 5.8 percent in the first three months
of 2010 compared with 5 percent in the previous quarter. Egypt’s
benchmark  EGX30  stock index has fallen 2.9 percent this year.  
 Some investment banks, including Cairo-based Pharos
Holding, said that they expect a rise in food costs because of a
June price increase by  Juhayna Food Industries , the country’s
biggest seller of packaged milk. Dairy products account for 6
percent of the consumer price index, Pharos said in a report
this week, forecasting inflation at 11.5 percent.  
 Food prices rose at an annual rate of 18.5 percent in June,
unchanged compared to May, according to the statistics agency.
Food and drinks account for more than 45 percent of the consumer
price index in urban parts of Egypt.  
 -With assistance from Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo. Editors:
Digby Lidstone, Louis Meixler, Inal Ersan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        