-- Former Yugoslav Nations Seek to End Bank Dispute as Croatia EU Entry Nears
-- Boris Cerni
-- 2010-07-10T16:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/former-yugoslav-nations-seek-to-end-bank-dispute-as-croatia-eu-entry-nears.html

          
          
             Slovenia and Croatia agreed to seek
ways to allow Ljubljana-based Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. to
operate in Croatia as closer ties between the former Yugoslav
countries may speed Croatia’s entry to the European Union.  
 Slovenian Prime Minister  Borut Pahor  will meet his Croatian
counterpart,  Jadranka Kosor , on July 31 at Bohinj, a mountain
resort in Slovenia, to resolve a dispute involving Slovenia’s
largest bank that dates from before the breakup of Federal
Yugoslavia in 1991, Pahor said today.  
 “There’s great hope we will be able to settle this complex
dispute after both countries consult experts and institutions,
especially on the Croatian side,” Pahor told reporters at a
meeting of Balkan and European Union officials at Dubrovnik, on
Croatia’s Adriatic coast. “Croatia will then be able to
complete talks with the EU on the free movement of capital.”  
 Croatia last month moved closer to becoming the EU’s 28th
member by opening entry talks in three policy areas. It aims to
complete the negotiations by early 2011, Kosor said today, thus
becoming the second former Yugoslav nation to join the trading
bloc after Slovenia, which entered in 2004.  
 Nova Ljubljanska, Slovenia’s largest bank with units in
most of the former Yugoslavia, is barred from operating in
Croatia because its communist-era predecessor owes Croatian
savers hundreds of millions of euros from before the
Federation’s breakup. Croatian central bank Governor  Zeljko Rohatinski  has said he won’t allow NLB to do business there
before the issue is settled.  
 Relations between Slovenia and Croatia have improved since
both nations agreed in September to settle a border dispute by
international arbitration. Before that, a Slovenian veto had
blocked Croatia’s EU accession bid for 10 months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Cerni  in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        