-- Gaga Dons Body Condom, Grates Crow, Samurais Spar: N.Y. Weekend
-- Zinta Lundborg
-- 2010-07-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/gaga-dons-body-condom-grates-crow-samurais-spar-n-y-weekend.html

          
          
             Catch  Lady Gaga ’s “Monster Ball”
tour at  Madison Square Garden  as the pop diva bumps and grinds
through her hits from “Just Dance” to “Alejandro” and
“Paparazzi.”  
 Her over-the-top costumes include a spark-throwing bra and
panties, a transparent body condom and platform stiletto fetish
boots. No less eye-popping is the exotic disco garb sported by
her ardent fans.  
 The Garden is on Seventh Avenue between 31st and 32nd
Streets. Information:  http://www.thegarden.com   
 For a totally different musical scene, head downtown to the
 Mercury Lounge  for the tight Aussie trio, The Grates. Leading
lady Patience Hodgson is a banshee onstage, crowing and crooning
in equal measure.  
 Already solid-gold stars Down Under, The Grates are touring
to support their album, “Teeth Lost, Hearts Won,” which
recalls the lo-fi, lah-dee-dah of New York’s beloved Yeah Yeah
Yeahs.  
 Stay on for the squalling guitars of Midnight Spin.  
 Mercury Lounge is at 217 E. Houston St. Information: +1-
212-260-4700;  http://www.mercuryloungenyc.com   
 Afterwards, hit Spitzer’s Corner for a post-show Kobe
burger, a beef cheek sandwich with horseradish sauce or duck
confit salad. The gastropub offers 40 international beers on tap
and some good wines by the glass.  
 Spitzer’s Corner is at 101 Rivington St. Information: +1-
212-228-0027.  
 Saturday Afternoon  
 The tutus and pointe shoes are being packed as  American
Ballet Theater  winds down its spring season and heads out to Los
Angeles.  
 You can still squeeze in a matinee of Kenneth MacMillan’s
tried-and-true “Romeo and Juliet,” starring the beautiful
David Hallberg and the Bolshoi Ballet’s technical whiz kid,
Natalia Osipova.  
 When Sergei Prokofiev wrote the score, dancers complained
it was too hard to move to his edgy music, but the tear-jerker
came to be one of ballet’s most popular works.  
 At the Metropolitan Opera, Broadway at 65th Street.
Information: +1-212-477-3030;  http://www.abt.org   
 Saturday Evening  
 Two fierce samurai warriors battle it out in the first
offering of this summer’s  Lincoln Center Festival . By turns
frightening and funny, Hisashi Inoue’s Noh-inspired “Musashi”
mulls over cycles of revenge, honor and the virtues of a conga
line.  
 Yukio Ninagawa directs with a light touch and an eye for
beauty, and Tatsuya Fujiwara shows off his sleek athleticism in
the title role.  
 Adding to the realism, a giant red sun hangs over the first
samurai fight and Musashi outwits his opponent by positioning
him so he’s blinded by the rays. Overheated New Yorkers will
empathize.  
 After the show, head to Rosa Mexicano for hand-mashed
guacamole and mango margaritas.  
 At the David H. Koch Theater, Broadway at 65th Street.
Information: +1-212-721-6500;  http://new.lincolncenter.org   
 Rosa Mexicano is at 61 Columbus Ave. Information: +1-212-
977-7700.  
 Sunday  
 Check out the mathematical Russians at the  Guggenheim ’s
“The Geometry of  Kandinsky  and Malevich.” Early pioneers of
abstract painting, both seriously annoyed the authorities.  
 Malevich was denounced by Stalinists, who accused him of
creating “bourgeois” art. In Germany, where Kandinsky was
teaching at the Bauhaus, the Nazis exhibited some of his
paintings as “Degenerate Art” before destroying them. While
they were at it, the Nazis also shut down the art and
architecture school.  
 The museum is at 1071 Fifth Avenue at 89th Street.
Information: +1-212-423-3618;  http://www.guggenheim.org   
 Smear some Camembert on a baguette and wash it down with a
refreshing sauvignon blanc as you enjoy saucy Can-Can dancers
lifting their ruffled skirts.  
 The  French Institute Alliance Francaise  is throwing its
annual outdoor Bastille Day celebration on East 60th Street
beginning at noon.  
 On the main stage, hear Gay Marshall sing Edith Piaf
ballads, Brooklyn-band Les Sans Culottes perform their French-
inflected glam rock and Moroccan chanteuse Malika Zarra combine
Arabic working-class blues with jazz and pop.  
 Of course, there will be a mime and an accordionist, plus
owners of classic Citroens and vintage Velosolex motorbikes will
bring their vehicles for all to admire.  
 FIAF is at 22 E. 60th St. Information: +1-212-355-6100;
 http://www.fiaf.org   
 (With assistance from  Alix Greenwald .  Zinta Lundborg  is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lady Gaga  
                       
                         
                           David LaChapelle/Polydor/Universal Music Group via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Singer Lady Gaga. The pop diva is performing at Madison Square Garden. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Singer Lady Gaga. The pop diva is performing at Madison Square Garden. Photographer: David LaChapelle/Polydor/Universal Music Group via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Bastille Day on 60th Street"  
                       
                         
                           Alexandra Brand/FIAF via Bloomberg 
                         
                         People gather during the 2009 "Bastille Day on 60th Street" festival in New York. The celebration will be taking place on East 60th Street from Fifth to Lexington Avenues this Sunday, July 11, from noon to 6 p.m. Source: 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     People gather during the 2009 "Bastille Day on 60th Street" festival in New York. The celebration will be taking place on East 60th Street from Fifth to Lexington Avenues this Sunday, July 11, from noon to 6 p.m. Source: Photographer: Alexandra Brand/FIAF via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Actors from left, Ryo Katsuji and Tatsuya Fujiwara in "Musashi." The U.S. premiere of the play, directed by Yukio Ninagawa, will run from July 7 to 10 at the David H. Koch Theater in Lincoln Center. Photographer: Takahiro Watanabe/Lincoln Center via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Dancers Natalia Osipova and David Hallberg in the American Ballet Theater production of "The Sleeping Beauty" in New York. Osipova and Hallberg will be performing in choreographer Sir Kenneth MacMillan's interpretation of "Romeo and Juliet" this Saturday, July 10 at the Metropolitan Opera. Photographer: Rosalie O'Conner/American Ballet Theater via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A foie gras burger is served at gastropub Spitzer's Corner in New York, located at 101 Rivington Street on the corner of Ludlow. Source: Spitzer's Corner via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Members of the band The Grates, from left, Alana Skyring, Patience Hodgson and John Patterson. They will be performing at The Mercury Lounge, located at 217 East Houston Street on July 9. Photographer: Shannon Fischer/ MCT Management via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
