-- Obama to Ease Policy for U.S. Veterans Seeking Stress-Disorder Benefits
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-10T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/obama-to-ease-policy-for-u-s-veterans-seeking-stress-disorder-benefits.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said the
government next week will make it easier for thousands of U.S.
veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder to obtain
benefits.  
 “This is a long-overdue step that will help veterans, not
just of the Afghanistan and Iraq wars, but generations of their
brave predecessors who proudly served and sacrificed in all our
wars,” Obama said in his weekly radio and Internet address.  
 The disorder, known as PTSD, is brought on by wartime
experiences of death, threats of death or injury. The hidden and
emotional scars may leave victims battling intense fear,
helplessness and feelings of horror years after their combat
roles have ended.  
 “For many years, veterans with PTSD have been stymied in
receiving benefits by requirements they produce evidence proving
a specific event caused the PTSD,” Obama said. “Streamlining
this process will help not just the veterans of the Afghanistan
and Iraq wars, but generations of veterans who have served and
sacrificed for the country.”  
 New rules will end corroboration requirements that involve
lengthy searches of veterans’ records, a process that may take
months or years, according to Veterans Affairs Department
officials, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity
because details of the new policy haven’t been released.  
 The changes will speed the process of diagnosing PTSD and
granting benefits, the officials said. Eligibility for benefits
also will be extended to soldiers in non-combat roles, such as
drivers in military convoys afflicted by fear of roadside bombs,
they said.  
 Taking Notes  
 “I don’t think our troops on the battlefield should have
to take notes to keep for a claims application,” Obama said.
“And I’ve met enough veterans to know that you don’t have to
engage in a firefight to endure the trauma of war.”  
 Qualified veterans are entitled to disability compensation
of as much as $2,700 a month, the officials said.  
 The new policy is to be announced on July 12 by Veterans
Affairs Secretary  Eric Shinseki .  
 Obama said many veterans have felt stigmatized or
embarrassed about seeking help for a stress disorder.  
 “We’ve made it clear up and down the chain of command that
folks should seek help if they need it,” Obama said. “That is
our sacred trust with all who serve -- and it doesn’t end when
their tour of duty does.”  
 Republican Address  
 In the weekly Republican address, Georgia Representative
 Phil Gingrey  promoted a Republican Party project called
“America Speaking Out,” which provides an Internet forum for
discussions about policy issues and lets participants vote on
their preferences.  
 “Americans are fed up with how things are going in the
country right now,” Gingrey said, citing job losses, the $862
billion stimulus program, rising government  debt  and the
“2,000-page, trillion-dollar” health-care overhaul enacted in
March.  
 Gingrey said the Republican Party is offering plans to
reduce federal  spending  and “provide the fiscal discipline
economists say is needed to create private-sector jobs and boost
our economy.”  
 The AmericaSpeakingOut.com website lets people submit their
ideas and will help shape the debate for congressional elections
in November, he said.  
 “Americans are proud of this country, they want to see
things get better, and they want to be part of that
turnaround,” Gingrey said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        