-- Osborne Says Budget Cuts Needed to Avoid `Downward Spiral' in U.K. Economy
-- Cotten Timberlake
-- 2010-07-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/osborne-says-budget-cuts-needed-to-avoid-downward-spiral-in-u-k-economy.html

          
          
             Britain’s budget cuts were necessary
to deal with a deficit that was the “clearest threat” to the
U.K.’s economic recovery, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said.  
 “The most likely cause of a downward spiral” in the
British economy “would be a concern that we couldn’t deal with
our deficit,” Osborne said, according to a transcript of CNN’s
“Fareed Zakaria GPS” program scheduled for broadcast today.
“That is the clearest threat. And I think we have acted to deal
with that.”  
 Osborne announced an emergency budget on June 22 to tackle
his country’s record  deficit . The spending-cut program will
slice 85 billion pounds ($128 billion) from expenditures,
equivalent to 5.7 percent of gross domestic product, according
to Institute for Fiscal Studies estimates.  
 Osborne said British consumer and business confidence “had
this black cloud hanging over it, which was we know there’s this
huge debt problem.”  
 Osborne also said that public reaction to the budget “has
been very, very positive.”  
 The International Monetary Fund last week forecast the U.K.
economy would expand 1.2 percent this year and 2.1 percent in
2011. That compares with an April projection for growth of 1.3
percent and 2.5 percent.  
 Low Interest Rate  
 The Bank of England on July 8 kept its  bond-stimulus plan 
in place and left its benchmark interest  rate  at a record low to
help prevent the economic recovery from stalling during what is
the biggest budget squeeze since World War II.  
 The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King ,
held the target for its asset-buying plan unchanged at 200
billion pounds ($303 billion). The bank also kept its  key
interest rate  at 0.5 percent.  
 Officials are weighing the risk of  inflation  against the
danger that the government spending cuts will push the  economy 
back into a recession.  
 In the CNN interview, Osborne reiterated that he favored
financial regulation for Britain similar to the so-called
Volcker rule.  
 “I am personally quite attracted to that,” Osborne said.
“So I personally think that large-scale proprietary trading and
large-scale internal hedge funds don’t sit totally easily
alongside retail banking.”  
 British economist John Vickers is chairing an independent
banking commission looking at the issue, he said.  
 Volcker Rule  
 Under a U.S. proposal to restrict banks from proprietary
trading, named after former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , lenders will be allowed to invest in private-equity and
hedge funds, although they will be limited to providing no more
than 3 percent of the fund’s capital.  
 The proposal is part of a financial regulation bill that is
awaiting passage in the Senate.  
 Osborne, a member of the Conservative Party which governs
the U.K. in alliance with the Liberal Democrats, said his party
“had to change” in order to return to power. He said the party
needed to have more women and minority members in Parliament, as
well as refusing to cede issues such as climate change, poverty
and social equity to the country’s political left.  
 “There are good conservative arguments, based on
conservative principles, about how you reduce carbon emissions
or how you increase social justice in a society or how you
increase social mobility,” Osborne said on the program. “And
the conservative family should not be afraid of advancing those
arguments.”  
 Osborne said the British Labor Party is moving to the left
and “it’s madness because that is exactly what we did in the
opposite direction when we lost power. We headed off to the
right with the fringes of British politics and stayed there for
13 years.”  
 “We now very clearly occupy the center ground of British
politics,” he said. “The conservatives in the United States
can come to their own conclusions, although, as an interested
observer, I would suggest that moving to the center is normally
the best place to try and win an election,” Osborne said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        