-- Primer on Parties Contesting Japan Upper House Election, Policy Platforms
-- John Brinsley
-- 2010-07-10T01:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/primer-on-parties-contesting-japan-upper-house-election-policy-platforms.html

          
          
             Japan’s 104 million voters go the
polls tomorrow to elect half of the Diet’s  upper house  in an
election that will determine Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s ability
to pass legislation.  
 Legislators in the 242-seat House of Councillors serve
six-year terms, two more than members of the more powerful
 lower house . While the upper chamber can impede legislation,
the House of Representatives can override any obstruction with
a two-thirds majority vote.  
 Kan is aiming to bolster his month-old tenure and
stabilize his Democratic Party of Japan, which took power for
the first time in September. After the DPJ ousted the  Liberal
Democratic Party  from more than 50 years of almost unbroken
rule, Kan’s predecessor  Yukio Hatoyama  quickly ran into trouble.
He resigned on June 2 over a broken promise to relocate a U.S.
military base from Okinawa, and campaign finance scandals
involving him and chief party strategist  Ichiro Ozawa .  
 While Kan has improved the party’s prospects, his decision
to promote a debate over whether to increase the nation’s 5
percent  consumption tax  to reduce the budget deficit has hurt
his standing.  
 The DPJ holds 116 seats, 54 of them up for grabs. Its
coalition partner, the New People’s Party, has six, half of
which are being contested.  
 The following outlines election themes and key policies
laid out by the DPJ, the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party 
and smaller parties that may hold the balance of power in the
chamber.  
 Main Campaign Platforms:  
 The administration’s policy goals include reducing Japan’s
883 trillion yen ($10 trillion)  public debt , the world’s
largest, lowering the corporate tax rate from as high as 40
percent and balancing the budget in 10 years. The DPJ has
backed off from pledges to double a monthly childcare allowance
of 13,000 yen that it implemented this year, abolish some
gasoline  taxes  and eliminate all highway tolls.  
 In foreign policy, Kan has said he will abide by the
agreement Hatoyama signed with the U.S. to move a Marine
helicopter base within Okinawa. Hatoyama originally pledged to
move the base off the island, before giving in to pressure from
the Obama administration. Local residents expressed outrage,
something other parties have emphasized during their campaigns.  
 Kan also has problems with coalition partner the  People’s
New Party , which opposes any increase in the consumption tax.
Party chief  Shizuka Kamei  resigned as financial services
minister three days after Kan took office as the DPJ decided
not to extend the parliamentary session to pass changes to
banking and postal services laws.  
 LDP’s Tanigaki  
 The Liberal Democrats remain the largest opposition party,
although they have lost legislators since their landslide
lower-house defeat last August. Party head  Sadakazu Tanigaki , a
former finance minister, advocates doubling the 5 percent sales
tax as a way to fix Japan’s finances. However, he has yet to
agree to Kan’s proposal for cross-party talks on the levy and
accused his rival of duplicity on the issue. The party is
trying to focus voter attention on the DPJ’s reversal on
Okinawa and other political commitments.  
 Three parties made up of disaffected LDP legislators have
formed, one of which may win enough seats to affect the balance
of power in the upper house. The  Your Party , formed by  Yoshimi Watanabe , a former financial services minister, is running
third in the polls. His group opposes raising the sales tax and
advocates boosting government revenue by 30 trillion yen over
the next three years through selling public assets and cutting
spending. It currently has one seat in the chamber, but may win
as many as 10, polls indicate. Watanabe says his party won’t
join the coalition.  
 The other two ex-LDP groups are the New Renaissance Party,
led by former Health Minister  Yoichi Masuzoe , and the Sunrise
Party, led by ex-Finance Minister  Kaoru Yosano  and former Trade
Minister  Takeo Hiranuma .  
 Another possible candidate to join with the DPJ is the New
Komeito party, a conservative group backed by Soka Gakkai, a
lay Buddhist organization with more than 8 million members in
Japan. It served as a minority partner in the last LDP
government.  
 The eligible voting age in Japan is 20, and counting will
begin as soon as polls close at 8 p.m. local time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Brinsley  in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        