-- Putin Tells Aeroflot Chief to Buy Russian Planes, Fewer Boeings, Airbuses
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-07-10T14:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/putin-dresses-down-aeroflot-ceo-on-plan-to-buy-more-boeing-airbus-planes.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
criticized  OAO Aeroflot , Russia’s largest airline, for seeking
to expand domestic market share by buying more planes from
 Boeing Co.  and Airbus SAS.  
 “I want to understand how much domestic technology
Aeroflot will buy,” Putin said in a meeting with Chief
Executive Officer  Vitaly Savelyev  today. “You want to dominate
the domestic market, but you don’t want to buy Russian
technology. That won’t do.”  
 Savelyev, who told Putin that Aeroflot has only six
Russian-made Ilyushin-96s out of a fleet of 115, promised to
come up with a plan to buy more domestic aircraft, according to
a transcript of the meeting on the prime minister’s  website .  
 State-run Aeroflot has spent the last two decades shedding
its Soviet image by retraining staff and importing planes. The
Moscow-based company, a member of the  SkyTeam alliance , is
seeking to expand on the Russian market through consolidation
and the purchase of more planes.  
 Expanding Aeroflot’s 25 percent market share at home is the
company’s “main strategic task” so that once Russia joins the
World Trade Organization, the airline will be able to compete
globally, Savelyev told Putin.  
 The airline plans to buy 22 Boeing 787 Dreamliners and 22
Airbus A350s starting in 2016, according to Savelyev. The
company has also agreed to purchase 30 regional Sukhoi Co.
SuperJets, Russia’s first major commercial airplane project
since the fall of the Soviet Union.  
 Putin criticized the plan as “inadequate,” reminding
Savelyev of Russian-made  Tupolevs  and the domestic MS-21,
designed to compete with the Boeing 737 and Airbus A320.
Savelyev said he would report back to Putin with a revised plan.  
 Aeroflot is one of the few airlines that managed to make a
 profit  during the global economic crisis, Savelyev said.
Dividends for 2009 will be twice as much as for 2008, according
to Savelyev.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        