-- Rangers Get All-Star Pitcher Cliff Lee, Mark Lowe in Deal With Mariners
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-07-10T00:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/rangers-get-all-star-pitcher-cliff-lee-mark-lowe-in-deal-with-mariners.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers acquired pitcher
 Cliff Lee  in a trade from the Seattle Mariners in exchange for
minor league prospects, including first baseman Justin Smoak.  
 It’s the second straight year Lee has been traded to a
first-place team in a pennant race from a club that was far
down in the standings.  
 The Rangers also got right-handed pitcher  Mark Lowe  and
cash from Seattle, who added Smoak, minor league players Blake
Beavan, Josh Lueke and Matt Lawson, the club said on its
website. First baseman Chris Davis was recalled from Oklahoma
City to take Smoak’s place on the active roster.  
 Reports in the New York Post earlier today had Lee on the
verge of being traded to the New York Yankees for a group of
minor-league prospects including catcher Jesus Montero. That
deal fell apart at the last minute when the Mariners asked for
more players, the Post said.  
 Lee, a 31-year-old left-hander, has an 8-3 record in 13
starts and leads the American League with a 2.34 earned run
average. He is two years removed from winning the American
League Cy Young Award as the league’s best pitcher and helped
the Philadelphia Phillies reach the World Series last year.  
 Wins Against Yankees  
 Lee started five games for the Phillies in the 2009
postseason, going 4-0 with a 1.56 ERA. He won both his World
Series starts against the Yankees, including a complete game in
the opener, when he recorded 10 strikeouts and allowed one
unearned run.  
 Starting last season with the Cleveland Indians, Lee also
was the winning pitcher in the first regular-season game played
at the new Yankee Stadium.  
 Lee, who made his major league debut with Cleveland in
2002, has a career record of 97-55 with a 3.86 ERA.  
 The Phillies traded Lee to the Mariners in the offseason.
He started the year on the disabled list with a strained
abdomen and the Mariners have struggled, posting a 34-51
record and sitting 16 games out of first place in the AL
West. The Mariners offense has floundered and ranks 29th of 30
major league teams.  
 Lee was scheduled to pitch in tonight’s game between the
Mariners and the Yankees in Seattle. The Rangers rank tenth in
baseball with a 3.86 ERA. Their staff has combined for four
complete games, while Lee has thrown five complete games this
season, including one against his new team.  
 Lee, who was drafted by the Montreal Expos in 2000, has
been traded three times in his eight-year career.  
 The Phillies sent him to Seattle for three prospects after
acquiring another Cy Young winner,  Roy Halladay . He joined a
staff in Seattle that included  Felix Hernandez  and the injured
 Erik Bedard .  
 The Rangers, who are in bankruptcy, had sought approval of
a sale agreement with a group that included Hall of Fame
pitcher  Nolan Ryan  and had a deal in place that was valued at
$575 million. The Major League Baseball team then reversed
course and is planning to auction itself.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Barry Rothbard  in New York at 
 brothbard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        