-- Soy Imports by China Jump to Record in June on Argentine Row, Feed Demand
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-10T07:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/soy-imports-by-china-jump-to-record-in-june-on-argentine-row-feed-demand.html

          
          
             Soybean imports  by China, the
biggest buyer, jumped to a record in June after a halt to
Argentine soy oil shipments and increasing feed consumption
boosted demand from crushers.  
 Shipments jumped 42 percent from May to 6.2 million metric
tons, the most ever for a single month, according to Bloomberg
data. Purchases in the first six months climbed 17 percent to
25.8 million tons, customs said.  
 China halted soybean oil shipments from Argentina, the
world’s biggest supplier, in April as part of a disagreement
over antidumping measures. Soybean imports may increase as hot
weather and rain damages crops in China, supporting prices that
have fallen about 9 percent this year on expectations of record
global oilseed harvests.  
 “China’s halt of soybean oil from Argentina has led to
more domestic crushing to make up for the reduced imports,”
Tian Feng, analyst at BOC International (China) Ltd., said by
phone from Shanghai today. Also, “some of the cargoes that
were previously delayed at ports were able to clear customs in
June.”  
 Beijing blocked imports of soybean oil from Argentina in
response to anti-dumping investigations by the South American
country on Chinese goods ranging from steel pipes to textiles,
according to a state-backed trade group.  
 Soybeans are crushed for their oil and also processed into
meal, an ingredient in feed. China’s soybean imports account
for more than half of global exports and are forecast at 48
million tons this year by the U.S. Foreign Agricultural Service
in its July  report .  
 ‘Sales Improve’  
 “Sales of soybean meal have improved as it remains the
most attractive protein source in terms of price compared with
corn and other animal feed,” Tian said.  
 The U.S. is the biggest soybean supplier to China, with a
45 percent market share in the 2008-2009 marketing year,
followed by Brazil with 39 percent and Argentina’s 14 percent,
according to a February report from the U.S. Embassy in Beijing.  
 Soybean futures for November delivery on the Chicago Board
of Trade climbed as much as 1.4 percent yesterday to $9.5875 a
bushel, the highest price since May 14, on expectations China
would buy more of the commodity.  
 China’s soy crop was hurt by temperatures that reached 106
degrees Fahrenheit (41 degrees Celsius) in northeast regions
during the past seven days and too much rain in the south
during the past month,  Fred Gesser , a senior meteorologist at
Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, has said.  
 Further Gains  
 Soybean imports by China may gain at least 6 percent next
year, driven by rising wealth as rural inhabitants move into
cities, figures from U.S. Soybean Export Council last month
showed. Imports of “50 million might even be conservative,”
said  Phillip Laney , the council’s China country director.  
 “Imports are expected to be high in both June and July
and will only come down after August when the market awaits the
new crop soybeans to come on stream in the northern
hemisphere,” Chen Baomin, analyst at Jilin Grain Group Co.’s
import and export division, said by phone from Dalian yesterday.  
 -- Feiwen Rong . With assistance from Winnie Zhu in Shanghai.
Editors: Richard Dobson, Paul Tighe.  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        