-- Spain, Netherlands Face High Altitude `Nuisance' in Soccer World Cup Final
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-07-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-10/spain-netherlands-face-high-altitude-nuisance-in-soccer-world-cup-final.html

          
          
             Spain and the Netherlands will have
to contend with the altitude factor as well as each other in
today’s soccer World Cup final in Johannesburg.  
 The European rivals meet at Soccer City, which is 1,753
meters (5,752 feet) above sea level, with both teams seeking
their first global title. Dutch coach  Bert van Marwijk  said
playing at high altitude is “a nuisance,” particularly when it
comes to controlling the flight of the ball.  
 “You can really notice it,” Netherlands captain  Giovanni Van Bronckhorst  said last night at a news conference. “We have
to concentrate and focus because the ball has a different
trajectory.”  
 Van Marwijk ’s team, which has won all six of its games in
South Africa, practiced long passes at the almost 85,000-seat
Soccer City venue, where the 32-nation tournament will culminate
in the crowning of the first new world champion since France in
1998. Kickoff is 8:30 p.m. local time.  
 Both teams won semifinals at sea level, with Spain beating
Germany 1-0 in Durban a day after the Netherlands defeated
Uruguay 3-2 in Cape Town.  
 European champion Spain should cope with the altitude
because the team feels “very fit physically,” midfielder  Xavi Hernandez  told reporters last night. The Spaniards have also
“totally adapted” to Adidas AG’s Jabulani ball, which has been
criticized by some players for being unpredictable in the air
and hard to control.  
 “I don’t think we’ll have any problems with the altitude
or the ball,” said Xavi, who along with teammates  Andres Iniesta  and  David Villa  was included on FIFA’s 10-man shortlist
for the player of the tournament award.  
 Top Scorers  
 Villa enters tonight’s match tied atop the  goal-scoring 
list with Netherlands midfielder  Wesley Sneijder , Germany’s
Thomas Mueller and  Diego Forlan  of Uruguay. Mueller and Forlan
got their fifth goals in yesterday’s third-place playoff won by
Germany 3-2.  
 Carles Puyol ’s header in the semifinal win over the Germans
was the first of Spain’s seven goals at the tournament that
Villa didn’t score himself or assist. Xavi said the team is
aware of the need to improve its conversion rate.  
 “It is concerning when you don’t score,” he said. “We’re
not converting the chances to our normal percentage. Let’s see
if we can lift that.”  
 The matchup between two-time runner-up the Netherlands and
first-time finalist Spain will ensure that Europe moves ahead of
South America in overall World Cup victories 10-9. It will also
keep the trophy on the same continent for the first time since
1962 when Brazil clinched back-to-back titles.  
 Final of Firsts  
 The victor will be the only European nation to win soccer’s
biggest prize away from its own continent.  
 Spain would also become the first team to take the title
after losing its opening game.  Vicente Del Bosque ’s team has
five straight wins after a shock 1-0 loss to Switzerland.  
 “We do feel a little bit nervous because it’s a very
important match,” Villa told reporters. “We’ve felt anxious
throughout the World Cup, even in the earlier matches. Speaking
for myself, I have butterflies in my stomach.”  
 Spain and the Netherlands have played nine times before,
each winning four with one tie. Today’s final will be their
first World Cup meeting.  
 The Spanish are the 4-7 favorites to take the title,
according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill. The Netherlands are a
6-4 chance, meaning a successful $4 bet on the Dutch brings in
$6 plus the original stake.  
 “We are going to do anything and everything we can to win
the match,” Van Marwijk said. “We respect our opponents but we
are not afraid. I’m convinced we can win the match.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Johannesburg through the London sports desk at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Baynes  in Johannesburg at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        