-- Coca-Cola Will Run First Super Bowl Ads Since 1998
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2007-01-24T21:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-24/coca-cola-will-run-first-super-bowl-ads-since-1998-update3-.html

          
          
             Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  will go head-to-head
with  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  in  Super Bowl  television advertising for the
first time in almost a decade as it tries to boost sales of its
top-selling drink.  
 One new ad for Coca-Cola Classic will air during
professional football's championship game along with two spots
that debuted during the television show ``American Idol,'' the
Atlanta-based company said in a statement today. Coca-Cola hasn't
run promotions during the Super Bowl since 1998.  
 Advertising during television's most-watched event pits
Coca-Cola against PepsiCo as both companies try to reverse a drop
in U.S. soda sales. PepsiCo has advertised during the Super Bowl
for 21 consecutive years and will sponsor the half-time show for
the first time.  
 ``Coke wants back in the game,'' said Z. John Zhang,
marketing professor at the Wharton School at the  University of
Pennsylvania . ``They've waited this many years to come back, so
the pressure is on them to have the louder voice.''  
 Both soft-drink makers are trying to stop declines in the
U.S., where soda consumption dropped in 2005 for the first time
in at least 15 years because of concern that sugary beverages
contribute to obesity. Coca-Cola's soft drink volume fell 1
percent in  North America  during the third quarter, and PepsiCo's
dropped 2 percent.  
 Cost of Ads  
 Coca-Cola's Super Bowl advertisements include a 60-second
spot titled ``Video Game,'' showing a character who passes out
bottles of Coca-Cola Classic to people he meets on the street.
Coca-Cola will also run a 30-second ad called ``Happiness
Factory'' that follows a bottle of Coke through an imaginary
vending machine.  
 The company won't say anything about the new commercial
being made for the Super Bowl. The ads were created by
independent agency  Wieden + Kennedy , based in  Portland ,  Oregon .  
 ``Coca-Cola Classic has always been about having fun, and
that's what people get together to do when they watch the Super
Bowl,'' said Katie Bayne, senior vice president for Coca-Cola
brands in North America.  
 Shares of Coca-Cola fell 1 cent to $48.13 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. They gained 20 percent
last year, the biggest gain since 1997.  
 PepsiCo  shares  climbed 36 cents to $65.20. They rose 5.9
percent last year.  
 Coca-Cola spokeswoman Susan McDermott wouldn't say how much
the company is spending on the game. A 30-second ad during the
Super Bowl can cost $2.5 million, according to AdWeek. Coca-
Cola's advertising budget was $2.48 billion in 2005.  
 Bears vs. Colts  
 More than 141 million people watched last year's Super Bowl.
This year's game, scheduled for Feb. 4 at Dolphin Stadium in
Miami Gardens, Fla., is a match-up between the  Chicago Bears  and
the  Indianapolis Colts .  
 The Super Bowl will be broadcast on CBS Corp.'s CBS network.
The television show  American Idol , the most popular show on
primetime television, airs on News Corp.'s Fox network.  
 In addition to the half-time show sponsorship, PepsiCo plans
to run 90 seconds of ads during the first half of the Super Bowl,
spokeswoman Nicole Bradley said. She wouldn't say how much the
company is spending, or which ads it plans to run.  
 PepsiCo has a promotion featuring a sterling silver can of
Pepsi studded with diamonds, rubies and sapphires. The company
will give away the can, worth $100,000, and Super Bowl tickets
for life after the half-time show, which includes a performance
by the musician Prince.  
 ``We thrive on the Super Bowl spotlight. It's been a part of
our game plan for more than two decades,'' Bradley said.  
 Last year, Coca-Cola sponsored a Super Bowl pre-game show
with its Full Throttle energy drink. Ads showed a semi-tractor
trailer truck mounted with an oversized can of Full Throttle
overtaking a small pickup truck with a slender can of rival
energy drink  Red Bull .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        