-- Exxon, Aramco China venture costs rise to $5 bln
-- By Chen Aizhu
-- Fri Mar 30, 2007 8:40am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/30/businesspro-energy-china-refinery-dc-idUSPEK22666320070330

 

 BEIJING  (Reuters) - Saudi Aramco and U.S. giant ExxonMobil 
Corp.'s first big Chinese downstream oil venture has grown to 
$5 billion, much more than planned, the firms said on Friday as 
they closed the books on 12 years of talks. 

  When the venture with top refiner Sinopec Corp.( 0386.HK ) 
was initially agreed in 2005, estimated investment for the 
refining and petrochemicals units in southeastern Fujian was 
$3.5 billion.  Since then, the partners have added a marketing venture 
with 750 filling stations and a network of terminals, while 
refinery costs have risen worldwide because of a tight 
contractor market and escalating prices for raw materials.  Speaking after a ceremony to commemorate final approval of 
the deal, Sinopec Corp.'s President Wang Tianpu told Reuters 
the cost difference was due entirely to the retail and 
wholesale operation. Aramco and Exxon Mobil declined immediate 
comment.  The deal is a coup for Exxon Mobil ( XOM.N ), the world's 
biggest publicly traded firm, which gets a rare and coveted 
foothold in the second-largest oil market.  It also gives the top oil exporter Saudi Arabia a 
guaranteed customer for its future output.  But it may also mark the end of an era of cooperation with 
major Western oil companies and clear preference for deals with 
major resource nations, leaving firms without any downstream 
ties like Chevron ( CVX.N ) or ConocoPhillips ( COP.N ) in the 
cold.  "This (deal) was one of the few survivors from China's 
previous round of foreign cooperation," said Yan Kefeng, of 
Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA).  "The message is very clear now: new JVs will be geared 
toward such resource players like Venezuela, Russia, Kuwait."  China, an oil exporter 15 years ago, is increasingly 
anxious about its dependence on imports, now near the halfway 
point. Saudi Arabia supplies about 16 percent of its imported 
crude.  Last year it pledged a host of deals with Russian firms. 
Earlier this week Venezuela, which hopes eventually to sell 
more than 1 million barrels a day to China, agreed to open its 
oilfields to Chinese investment and to help build new 
refineries.
  CHINA DOMINANCE IN FUEL MARKETING  Despite a flurry of interest in the 1990s, oil majors have 
also been slow to move in due to China's tight hold on domestic 
fuel distribution and retail prices.  The Fujian sales venture was only finally agreed after new 
rules opened the sector to foreign competition from 2007, Exxon 
Mobil's China head P.C. Tan told Reuters last week.  The changes were part of commitments China made when it 
joined the World Trade Organization in 2001.  Sinopec's dominance is evident in its 55 percent stake in 
the Fujian sales firm. Exxon and Aramco each holds 25 percent 
of the refinery and petrochemical projects but a smaller 22.5 
percent each in the marketing venture.  And Sinopec has called off talks with Exxon for joint fuel 
distribution in Guangdong, China's wealthiest province despite 
a preliminary alliance agreed in 2000 when Exxon bought into 
Sinopec's IPO.  Exxon sold its 3.7 percent stake in Sinopec in early 2005.  "There is no further plan for another joint venture with 
Exxon. The Guangdong venture has been called off," Sinopec 
Chairman Chen Tonghai told Reuters at the ceremony.  But he said talks were ongoing for a second joint venture 
refinery in eastern China's Shandong province with Aramco, 
expected to get about 25 percent stake in the 200,000 bpd 
plant.  The Fujian project will upgrade and triple the capacity of 
the existing Fujian oil refinery to 240,000 barrels per day 
(bpd) and build a facility to unload supertankers. It is due to 
start production in early 2009, processing primarily sour 
Arabian crude, a joint statement by the three companies said.  They will also build an 800,000 tonnes per year (tpy) 
ethylene cracker and associated chemical units.