-- Dissident shareholders win control at Take-Two
-- By  Michele Gershberg
-- Thu Mar 29, 2007 9:25pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/30/businesspro-taketwo-vote-dc-idUSN2916501420070330

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Dissident shareholders won control of 
Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. ( TTWO.O ) and ousted Chief 
Executive Paul Eibeler, the company behind blockbuster "Grand 
Theft Auto" video game series said on Thursday. 

  Shares of Take-Two rose more than 6 percent in after-hours 
trade amid news of the board takeover and appointment of 
Strauss Zelnick, a former chief executive BMG Entertainment, as 
chairman.  Zelnick said the board aims to make the company more 
efficient and that job cuts are not in the immediate future.  "In three to six months we're going to outline a plan," he 
said. "We need to create more hits. I sense a lot of the 
creative talent is in place," he said at a press conference.  Investors have long lobbied for new management at the 
company, which has depended on "Grand Theft Auto" to drive 
revenue while failing to turn out new hits at the rates of its 
rivals.  Compounding that, the company has weathered back-to-back 
scandals prompted by accounting issues, undisclosed sexual 
content in "Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas" and improper stock 
options grants.  The dissident group, which includes OppenheimerFunds Inc., 
Take-Two's largest institutional shareholder, D.E. Shaw Valence 
Portfolios and S.A.C. Capital Management, owns 46 percent of 
Take-Two shares.  Take-Two's directors are now Michael Dornemann, Benjamin 
Feder, incumbent director John Levy, Jon Moses, Michael 
Sheresky, Strauss Zelnick and appointee Grover Brown, also an 
incumbent.  Feder will serve as acting chief executive of the 
Manhattan-based game company.  The shareholder group had promised to review whether to 
keep Chief Financial Officer Karl Winters, and Zelnick said, 
"We need to learn more before we can make any decisions on that 
front."
  INVESTOR REVOLT  While its competitors have reignited growth with the recent 
release of new video game consoles, Take-Two has been grabbing 
headlines for its legal, financial and regulatory woes.  Zelnick said the company's new directors see the value in 
the company's cash cow, "Grand Theft Auto," but said it needs 
to review the entire publishing portfolio and focus on winning 
titles.  Wedbush Morgan analyst Michael Pachter, who has a "sell" 
rating on the stock, was cautious on the future. "I see nothing 
that makes me change my outlook on Take-Two. The company, if 
anything, may be more chaotic than it was in the past," he said 
after the company's announcement.  Take-Two's shareholder revolt is unusual in that it was led 
by Oppenheimer, a mutual fund, rather than a more aggressive 
hedge fund.  "You can applaud the institutions for taking up the 
opportunity and saying, 'This is wrong'," said Tom Gardner, CEO 
and co-founder of The Motley Fool online investor community.  Take-Two shares rose to $22.46 in extended trade after 
finishing at $21.10 in regular Nasdaq trade.  (Additional reporting by  Lisa Baertlein  in Los Angeles)