-- Sentinel records faulted before bankruptcy
-- 
-- Mon Aug 20, 2007 12:45pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/08/20/businesspro-sentinel-bankruptcy-dc-idUSN2027998920070820

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Sentinel Management Group Inc., the 
cash management firm serving the U.S. futures industry that 
filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection late on Friday, 
failed to keep adequate books and records, according to a 
National Futures Association document filed in federal court on 
Monday. 

  The NFA went to Sentinel's offices on August 14, the 
document shows, and reviewed the firm's books and records. That 
review found "that Sentinel failed to maintain adequate books 
and records, including records to demonstrate the location" of 
some accounts and whether or not the account's assets were in 
any way encumbered, the NFA document says.  As a result, the NFA issued an order prohibiting Sentinel 
from "liquidating, selling, transferring, encumbering or 
otherwise disposing of any securities." That order came one day 
after the firm, which managed about $1.6 billion of assets, had 
already frozen client accounts -- a move that helped roil 
global financial markets last week.  In its filing last week with the United States Bankruptcy 
Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Sentinel said its 
board decided it was in "the best interests of the corporation, 
its creditors and other interested parties that a voluntary 
petition be filed ... in an effort to restructure the 
indebtedness of the corporation."  Sentinel told clients in an August 13 letter: "we are 
concerned that we cannot meet any significant redemption 
requests without selling securities at deep discounts to their 
fair value and therefore causing unnecessary losses to our 
clients."  The Northbrook, Illinois-based firm said then that "we 
don't believe it is in anyone's best interest if a run on 
Sentinel took place and we were in a forced liquidation mode."  That announcement had helped to drive U.S. stocks lower, 
taking the Dow Jones industrial average  .DJI  to a four-month 
low, as it added to concerns about failing entities due to 
highly volatile markets and a credit squeeze.  News about Sentinel came on the heels of problems at funds 
managed by Bear Stearns Cos. BSC.N, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
( GS.N ) and other companies in the United States and abroad.  The bankruptcy filing said Sentinel estimated assets and 
liabilities both exceeded $100 million, but it wasn't more 
specific. It said it estimated it had at least 200 creditors.