-- Icahn to be on WCI board slate
-- By  Ilaina Jonas
-- Mon Aug 20, 2007 2:40pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/08/20/businesspro-wcicommunities-icahn-dc-idUSN2029777720070820

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. luxury builder WCI Communities 
Inc WCI.N said on Monday it reached an agreement with 
billionaire Carl Icahn, one of its largest shareholders, for a 
new slate of board members, which will include Icahn and 
representatives from two other large holders. 

  The news sent shares of WCI soaring. They were up 5 percent 
to $8.16 in afternoon trading, after reaching as high as $9.60. 
Before the announcement, shares had been down about 6 percent, 
or as far as $7.20.  Under the terms of the agreement, which effectively ends a 
proxy battle, WCI will nominate for election three current 
board members -- Chairman Don Ackerman, Charles Cobb Jr. and 
Hilliard Eure III -- and three candidates designated by Icahn 
Group -- Carl Icahn, Keith Meister and David Schechter.  In addition, both parties have agreed to nominate and 
approve Craig Thomas, a portfolio manager at S.A.C. Capital 
Advisors LLC; Nick Graziano, a managing director of Sandell 
Asset Management Corp; and Yale Law professor Jonathan Macey.  As of June 11, Icahn owned 4.8 million shares, Sandell 
owned 4.1 million and S.A.C. owned 4 million, according to 
filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Shareholders of the Bonita Springs, Florida, home builder 
are scheduled to vote on the slate during their August 30 board 
meeting.  Icahn could not immediately be reached for comment.  "I think his view would to be to get control of the board, 
force a restructuring and prepare the company for sale," said 
JMP Securities analyst Jim Wilson.  In addition, company has agreed to raise the trigger to 25 
percent from 15 percent under its shareholder rights plan. The 
company said it would work with the new board to review WCI's 
cash flow position to see whether new capital is needed to 
navigate the troubled market.  "The company will explore various alternatives, and the new 
shareholder representatives on the board have expressed an 
interest in exploring a rights offering on terms and conditions 
favorable to all shareholders, should it be determined that 
additional capital is required," Ackerman said in a statement.  WCI has suffered more than most large home builders because 
its business is heavily concentrated in Florida markets, and 
its focus is on high-rise condominium construction.  As the U.S. home market has declined sharply over the past 
year or so, what had been the hottest markets suffered the most 
severely. Florida builders, WCI included, have found themselves 
with a glut of shiny new condominiums they cannot sell or from 
which would-be buyers have walked away, Wilson said.  WCI spurned a takeover bid of $22 a share, or $1 billion, 
from Icahn in April. That decision came back to haunt the 
company last month when no other bidders came forward.  (Additional reporting by  Dane Hamilton )