-- Gold Buyers Nip at Ultimate Emotional Experience: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2009-11-30T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-29/gold-buyers-nip-at-ultimate-emotional-experience-david-pauly.html

          
          
             Why is it no matter how much the
world advances intellectually and technologically, people keep
speculating on gold?  
 John Neff , who managed Vanguard Group’s Windsor Fund for
three decades, once offered this take on the precious metal:
“It’s not an investment, it’s an emotional experience.”  
 Emotions have been running high. Spot gold prices have
risen 44 percent in the past 12 months. Gold futures reached a
record $1,196.80 an ounce in New York last week before closing
at $1,175.50 on Nov. 27.  
 Gold has to keep rising if current buyers are to get any
return. Direct investments in gold pay no interest. Some folks
buy gold-mining  stocks  that pay dividends, but those are subject
to declines in the companies’ other mining businesses.  
 People are speculating in gold because the dollar has been
falling and they think gold will hold its value. Others buy gold
out of fear the money created as the U.S. props up its banking
system will lead to inflation. Others want the metal simply
because it’s increasing in value.  
 Gold’s latest boom offers the U.S. government an
opportunity to capitalize on the emotions of speculators and
sell off its own horde of the metal.  
 At today’s prices, the  Federal Reserve  holds about $300
billion in gold. The Fed’s balance sheet values the holding at
just $11 billion, but this is based on a price of about $42 a
troy ounce, the so-called official U.S. government price
established in 1973.  
 Something Useful  
 In these times of trillion-dollar budget deficits, $300
billion may not seem like much. Still, that money could pay some
of the costs of any health-care bill that comes out of Congress.
Or it could help pay for wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  
 The U.S. probably would have to sell its  gold  a bit at a
time so it didn’t cause a slump in prices, partially defeating
the purpose of the exercise. U.S. holdings account for 27
percent of the gold held as reserves by central banks.  
 On second thought, speculators are so hungry for gold,
selling by the U.S. may not scare them.  
 The government, of course, seems content to let its gold
investment lay in storage. Some economists would be shocked at
the idea of getting rid of the country’s stockpile, which they
see as backing for the dollar. Do they think China and Japan buy
hundreds of billions of dollar-denominated Treasury securities
because America owns some gold? They buy because they’re sure
the U.S.’s credit is good.  
 Trade Tool  
 Gold long ago was used by nations to balance their trade
books. When the U.S. bought more abroad than it sold, it paid
the difference in gold.  
 It’s comical to think of that today. Once the U.S. economy
gurgles again, the Fed’s $300 billion in gold would only cover
about six months of the nation’s trade deficit.  
 European and Asian companies don’t collect dollars for
their goods because they expect a payoff in gold but because
they think the currency has its own value.  
 Neff, 78, still manages money for himself and his family in
suburban Philadelphia. “I’m still in the hunt,” he says.  
 The hunt has never taken the veteran investor anywhere near
gold. While the experience has been exhilarating lately, “I’m
not attracted to it,” Neff says.  
 If only others were so sensible.  
 ( David Pauly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 Editors: Steven Gittelson, Steve Stroth  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Pauly in Normandy Beach, New Jersey 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        