-- Banks Can't See the Next AIG Without New Tools: David Reilly
-- David Reilly
-- 2010-02-19T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-18/banks-can-t-see-the-next-aig-without-new-tools-david-reilly.html

          
          
             For all the hand-wringing over too-
big-to-fail banks, there is at least one simple solution: shrink
them. A more vexing question is how to deal with links between
firms, and markets, that can pose even bigger threats.  
 While “too big” can be defined by, say, assets, or
deposits, it is hard, if not impossible, to spot connections
that will spawn financial havoc. The government didn’t expect  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc .’s collapse to cause a run on  money
market funds , and no one foresaw that  American International
Group Inc . could endanger the likes of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
or  Societe Generale  due to credit default swaps.  
 That is why  legislation  introduced in the Senate earlier
this month to create an agency to map ties among firms while
also assessing threats is a good first step toward dealing with
too-tangled-to-fail banks. The plan becomes even more important
given a possible agreement between senators and the Obama
administration to create a council of regulators to oversee the
financial system, as the New York Times  reported  Wednesday.  
 That council -- likely to include regulators such as the  Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,  Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency  and the Treasury Department -- will
need unbiased, wide-ranging data and analysis that goes well
beyond what regulators have today. This is why legislation to
create a data-gathering agency -- introduced by Rhode Island
Democratic Senator Jack Reed -- would prove vital in making any
new regulatory set-up work.  
 Who Gets Hit  
 Although regulators now get all sorts of data from financial
firms, it’s not in a form that can be easily shared. Nor does
it, in most cases, dig down to the level of individual loans and
transactions. Data also isn’t standardized. So regulators can’t
quickly pull together information from across  Wall Street  to,
say, assess who would get hit if a particular company, financial
product or market blew up.  
 Firms’ interconnectedness, and our lack of knowledge about
it, was repeatedly raised as a deep-seated danger during a
Senate Banking Committee hearing earlier this month. “It isn’t
the balance sheet of the bank that’s a problem,” testified
former  Citigroup Inc . Chief Executive John Reed. “It’s the
interconnectedness of one financial institution with virtually
all other financial institutions.”  
 After all, hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management, which
blew up in 1998, required a bailout overseen by the Fed not
because of its size, but because its trades linked it to almost
every firm on Wall Street. The huge growth in financial
derivatives, especially credit-default swaps and interest-rate
swaps, has only made this issue more acute.  
 Mapping the Universe  
 Reed’s bill wouldn’t look to end connections among firms. It
would instead try to map them by giving the new agency the power
to require standardization of transaction data, which financial
firms would then have to turn over to the new agency. This would
help the firms and regulators get a better picture of who may
lose if someone goes under.  
 Then the plan is that the new agency would analyze the
across-the-Street data it collects to map markets and identify
potential hot spots.  
 The proposal is the brainchild of a group of academics,
economists and regulators who formed a volunteer  committee  to
push what they dubbed the National Institute of Finance.  
 Ideally, such an agency would gather quants, numbers geeks,
data hounds and just plain old, outside-the-box thinkers who,
instead of creating the kind of financial models that lead to
bubbles, would spot disaster before it strikes.  
 Weather Forecasts  
 Two of the main backers of such an institute -- John Liechty, an associate professor of business at Penn State
University, and Allan Mendelowitz, a former director of the
Federal Housing Finance Board -- have compared it to the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , which houses
agencies such as the  National Weather Service .  
 “Our financial markets are at least as important and as
complicated as the weather,” Liechty testified last week before
a Senate Banking subcommittee hearing on such an agency. “If
that’s the case why don’t we have the equivalent of NOAA for the
financial markets?”  
 Any new agency will only work, though, if it is
independent. That is why it needs to be housed outside existing
regulators such as the Fed, which have their own biases and
often-times parochial views.  
 ‘Speak the Truth’  
 As Liechty testified, “You need to have somebody who has
the ability to speak the truth in the middle of a crisis or in
the buildup to a crisis.”  
 Independence is one potential short-coming of Reed’s bill,
though. While it calls for the agency’s director to serve a 15-
year term, it also creates a board that includes the  Treasury 
Secretary and heads of regulatory agencies. That opens the door
to political interference.  
 There will also be complaints about costs. Yet by mandating
standardized data terms, such an agency may help banks and other
financial firms cut back-office and information-technology
costs.  
 Of course, even if the new agency works perfectly, there’s
no guarantee it would prevent future crises. For starters,
regulators have to be willing to act on warnings. It’s also
dangerous to put much faith in the ability of complex financial
models to predict risk.  
 Plus, secretive regulators, like the Fed, will likely push
to keep much of the information this new agency would generate
under wraps. That would be a mistake.  
 If investors, along with regulators, have a better grip on
the connections between firms they will be better able to price
risks, or steer clear of them altogether.  
 That is the real goal. Because ultimately we can’t
eliminate linkages among firms that form the basis of markets.
We can, though, try to manage them.  
 To do that, we first need someone to independently measure
them. Otherwise, any new council of regulators will be flying
blind.  
   David Reilly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Reilly at   dreilly14@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        