-- Columbia MBA Smart About Dumb Pro Sports Strife: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-02-19T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-18/columbia-mba-smart-about-dumb-pro-sports-strife-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             It’s time for professional sports
leagues to get Smart about labor negotiations. As in Keeth
Smart, a Columbia University Master of Business Administration
student who won an Olympic silver medal as a member of the 2008
U.S. fencing team.  
 Scheduled to graduate in May, Smart has heard all the
saber-rattling emanating from the National Football League and
National Basketball Association -- and their unions -- and says
there’s a better way.  
 “You just see these two sides fighting for more money, and
the average American fan can’t even grasp the sums they’re
fighting over,” the 31-year-old said. “Pro sports had better
watch the pressure points.”  
 Simple as that, really. And yet, when the subject is owners
versus athletes money matters are never simple.  
 As we heard in the prelude to the Super Bowl, NFL players
and owners somehow can’t find a way to share $8 billion in
annual revenue. They talk about partnership yet practice
partisanship. They’re already speculating about a work stoppage
after the 2010 season.  
 The same drum beat emanated from All-Star weekend in the
National Basketball Association, where owners were saying the
players make too much money.  
 It’s what they said in 1998, when owners imposed a lockout
and regular-season games were canceled for the first time in
league history.  
 The pros ought to invite Smart to the negotiating table,
where dumb and dumber are often on display.  
 Olympic Break  
 I know, I know. In last week’s column I promised a break
from pro sports and bickering for the duration of the Olympics.
That pledge, though, was made before the front end of the
Vancouver Games offered little more than death and delays, man-
made and otherwise, prompting a reach for the remote control.  
 If professional athletes are searching for a sympathetic
ear they won’t find it in Smart, who grew up training just as
hard as they did. The only difference being Smart knew, even as
a 13-year-old, that fencing wasn’t a route to riches.  
 That didn’t prevent him from practicing 30 hours a week.
Sometimes 40, depending on whether there was a competition.
There was fencing, and there was schoolwork. That’s it.  
 Smart didn’t attend the prom. There were no movies with
pals, no dances with gals, parties or pep rallies. No time for
distraction.  
 Smart is, well, smart with his money, which is why he has
little tolerance for millionaires crying poverty.  
 Get Smart  
 There are no diamonds, no entourage, no flat-screen
televisions lining the living-room wall of his home in the
Ditmas Park section of Brooklyn.  
 “I don’t have my upholstery outfitted in Louis Vuitton or
Gucci, either,” Smart says, laughing at the ways some athletes
have been known to blow their money.  
 He doesn’t drive a Bentley, Maybach or a tricked-out
Escalade. Smart takes the New York City subway. His unlimited
ride Metrocard costs $89 a month.  
 I met Smart in Beijing, during the 2008 Summer Olympics,
which included NBA stars like Kobe Bryant and LeBron James. For
a minute there the famous folks seemed like changed men, as if
marching with so many athletes who played solely for the love of
the game would have a lasting influence.  
 “I feel like those guys understand it for one or two
days,” Smart says. “Then they forget about it.”  
 Owners forget, too.  
 They forget that the players are the reason why people keep
coming, watching, cheering and caring. They forget that players
spent years getting good enough. They forget about the
sacrifices, the toll being a professional athlete takes on body,
mind and family.  
 Idiot-Proof  
 It’s a fair point made by NBA union Executive Director Billy
Hunter, who says management is pushing for what he has called an
idiot-proof system, one where even the most fiscally
irresponsible owner would make money.  
 In other words, owners want contract provisions that would
protect themselves from bad decisions.  
 That isn’t a partnership.  
 Most owners are disconnected from the locker room and don’t
understand what it takes to be an elite athlete. Conversely,
most athletes don’t understand the costs and pressures of owning
a franchise.  
 Instead of cooperation there’s distrust. Still. It’s
unfathomable that owners and players would put their investments
and livelihoods at risk when common sense and compromise make
everyone a winner.  
 Coming and Going  
 Yesterday was the NBA’s trade deadline, and seemingly every
move is motivated by teams looking to lower payrolls. Folks in
the NFL, meantime, are scrambling to prepare for next season,
which won’t have a salary cap.  
 And don’t tell me about pitchers and catchers reporting to
spring training, not with the Cubs, who inhabit the supposedly
friendly confines of Wrigley Field, charging 20 percent more
than face value for those wishing to buy tickets prior to their
on-sale date.  
 That’s one of those pressure points Smart was talking
about.  
 So it’s back to the Olympics, where gold, not gobs of
money, was the childhood motivation.  
 Gimme skis, snowboards and skates over sabers any day.  
 (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        