-- From Do It Yourself to Do It Together
-- Lang Davison
-- 2010-02-18T23:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-18/from-do-it-yourself-to-do-it-together.html

          
          
             Chris Anderson continues to explore the edges of the  Big Shift  playing out around us.  

 Having introduced us to  The Long Tail  and the growth of  Free  as a business model, Chris has just published a new article called  "Atoms Are the New Bits"  in the current issue of  Wired . This article, highlighting the move from the "long tail of bits" to the "long tail of atoms," provides an important preview to a new book Chris Anderson is developing. 

 Chris uses a broad range of compelling stories to illustrate three elements coming together to democratize product businesses: 

 •	Crowdsourcing of design ideas 
•	Availability of lower-cost design and manufacturing tools 
•	Options to outsource capital-intensive manufacturing and distribution business activities to more focused business partners 

 This is powerful stuff and all executives need to read this and reflect on what it means for their business.  Much of what Chris describes is a direct result of the foundational forces we identify as the catalysts of the  Big Shift (PDF),  specifically the digital technology infrastructure and public policy shifts that have been playing out for decades. Without these foundations, very little of the creative activity he describes would be possible. 

 The additional element that Chris appropriately highlights involves innovations in design and manufacturing tools — such as three dimensional printers, laser cutters, and lathes, not to mention sophisticated CAD design tools. These used to be huge obstacles to building new product businesses. They cost so much that most entrepreneurs had a hard time getting into the game. The price of admission to many product businesses was indeed very high. Now what was once the purview of only the largest corporations can easily be purchased and installed in a small garage by entrepreneurs with very limited resources. 

 There's  another development that further amplifies this trend. Even instruments that remain very expensive like electron microscopes can now be shared over digital networks in a pay-for-use model and accessed by very small start-ups. As a result, do-it-yourself, or DIY, businesses are flourishing in product categories like cars, drones, and rocket landers — products that were completely beyond the reach of small entrepreneurs for decades.  

 Given Wired's wide following among entrepreneurs, the article frames these developments as enormous opportunities, and they are — for entrepreneurs. From the perspective of large companies, however, these same trends represent enormous challenges. The examples used by Chris are tangible illustrations of the broader assertion we make as part of the Big Shift — barriers to entry and to movement are quickly falling. For incumbents, this means more intense competition, mounting economic pressure and, unless significant changes are made, deteriorating performance, as documented in our Shift Index. 

 As good as Anderson's article is, it only scratches the surface of what is going on. Now, we understand the severe space constraints of articles (not to mention blog postings like this!) make it necessary to be selective — choices have to be made about what to cover and what to leave aside.  

 In particular, the stories and anecdotes he relates focus on the "access" level of pull that we outline in our forthcoming book,  The Power of Pull . This is the ability to find and connect with people and resources on demand. This is very powerful. Chris does a great service in highlighting that pull in the form of access is becoming more widely available for physical products. It is not just the domain of Google and digital media. But access is only the very beginning of the broader forces at work through pull. 

 Our book builds on the important themes developed in Anderson's book by exploring  additional levels of pull that are becoming increasingly central to success. True to his article's title, Chris focuses on atoms, rather than relationships. He speaks eloquently about the new generation of 3D printers and the tools available in places likeTechShop.  

 But he only tangentially talks about the kinds of relationships that foster sustained innovation, performance improvement, or the creation of new knowledge related to these product businesses. He is focused on a largely transactional world — finding resources, doing deals to access them, and gaining leverage from what already exists. Even though in many of his stories pull platforms help to facilitate this access, given the constraints of an article, Chris doesn't investigate the institutional arrangements (for example, governance protocols) that sustain these pull platforms . 

 But there are other levels of pull that could be leveraged to amplify the long tail of atoms. For example, in what ways can individuals and businesses (entrepreneurs and incumbents alike)  go beyond simple access to actually attract people and resources they do not yet know exist, but that prove enormously helpful once discovered?  "Shaping serendipity" in this way is a second and more accomplished level of pull, one which builds on the expanded access to which Chris refers. Taking it even further,  rather than simply connecting with existing resources, what about participating in or even designing the  creation spaces  in which performance improvement and learning accelerate as more and more people join?  

 This third level of pull is the most exciting of all as it enables entirely new ways to scale collaboration. Perhaps this is the real story, just over the horizon.  DIY is powerful  because it taps into the passion and creativity of individuals around the world.   

 But maybe DIY is just a precursor to even more powerful forms of Do It Together (DIT), pulling together larger numbers of diversified and talented individuals to more and more rapidly innovate and drive new levels of performance on a continuing basis.  Of course, whenever a team forms, we have a form of DIT but, as we all know, teams are not scalable.  What we would really need is an environment where many teams can organize and begin to create and share knowledge across team boundaries. 

 Now, admittedly the second and third levels of pull required for scalable DIT to really take hold are more challenging to master. They begin to require significant institutional innovation, with deep thought around issues like governance, incentive structures, reputation mechanisms, and how to stimulate and focus productive friction. They definitely move us beyond the world of simple transactions into the more complex world of long-term, trust-based relationships. The pull platforms needed to support these businesses and relationships are far more complex. 

 But the rewards are enormous. Rather than one-off product innovations, entrepreneurs can start to build the foundations for a growing stream of product innovations with powerful increasing returns dynamics. In fact, the second and third level of pull begin to move us beyond "free-agent nation" stories into a new domain of scalable peer learning that can lead to the emergence and rapid evolution of very large and highly innovative global institutions. Scalable DIT offers the potential to turn the experience curve on its side, generating increasing returns to learning and performance improvement. 

 Now, is this all fantasy and speculation?  Not at all. But to find examples of the application of these higher levels of pull and get a sense of the scale that can be achieved, we need to look beyond the United States. We wrote extensively about some of the institutional innovations emerging in China in such diverse industries as apparel, motorcycles, and consumer electronics in our earlier book,  The Only Sustainable Edge .  

 In some later writing, we also highlighted other promising examples emerging in India in other industries like banking, agricultural products, and automobiles. Closer to home, our new book looks at a little known company that helped to drive the global technology innovation leading to the commercialization of the iPod. 

 These institutional innovations not only foster the emergence of smaller, entrepreneurial companies but amplify the economic value created by these companies by bringing them together into ecosystems that generate increasing returns so that everyone learns faster by working with others. It's DIT on steroids. 

 Going beyond the basic notion of access to focus on the broader promise of pull helps move us all beyond the romantic view of the individual entrepreneur working in a garage. In the end, DIT may be the real story to tell about the democratization of production: how the long tail will generate very large product businesses that will not only co-exist with smaller entrepreneurial businesses but, through their institutional innovations, actually help to catalyze even more of these smaller businesses. 

 What do you think?  Is free agent nation our destiny? Or are we simply in the midst of a shift to a very different kind of scalable institution?  Could you imagine an institution that would help you to get better faster by working with others? What would such an institution look like? 

 Lang Davison is the former executive director of the Deloitte Center for the Edge and was previously editor-in-chief of  The McKinsey Quarterly.  He is co-author of  The Power of Pull: How Small Moves, Smartly Made, Set Big Things in Motion. 

