-- Keep the Drinking Photos, Insulting Rants Offline: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-02-19T02:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-18/keep-the-drinking-photos-insulting-rants-offline-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             A Somali convicted of attempted
murder wants the verdict tossed out, claiming his prosecutor
wrote unkindly about his nationality on her Facebook page during
the trial.  
 A high school honors student gets suspended for calling a
teacher the “worst ever” on Facebook.  
 The Somali’s effort is probably doomed, and the high
schooler from Florida, now in college, went to court to wipe
clean her disciplinary record. She won a favorable ruling this
week in an early First Amendment victory for social networkers.  
 “It upholds the principle that the right to freedom of
speech and expression in America does not depend on the
technology used to convey opinions and ideas,” the student’s
lawyer, Maria Kayanan of the American Civil Liberties Union,
told the New York Times.  
 I’m a fan of free speech myself, but a privacy nut when it
comes to setting my life’s details aloft into cyberspace.  
 Here is what I want to know: Do people think that when they
post a comment, a video, a photograph on the Internet, only
their confidants will see it? Have they forgotten it is called
the World Wide Web?  
 Another example: An Indiana man accused of killing his
fiancee’s 2-year-old was haunted at trial by an anti-social rant
he had written on the social networking site MySpace.  
 If people want to expose their inner thoughts and bad
conduct online, that’s fine by me.  
 Those Who Post  
 But if you’re considering that, realize that those who post
won’t benefit from it as much as their critics will. If you are
tempted to let the world in on your dark secrets, think again.  
 A young woman in Texas trying to get back parental rights
to her son should have resisted the urge to post photos of
herself drinking, explaining through labels she was “Dranking
it Up” and boasting “I can dance when I drunk.” At the time,
she was too young to drink legally and under court order to
break no laws.  
 And a California coed found herself looking at a five-year
prison sentence for a deadly drunken driving accident, a penalty
enhanced because she posted photos of herself on MySpace showing
her drinking after the fatality. The judge saw that as a lack of
remorse.  
 This isn’t to say you can’t overcome your poor judgment.
The California student’s sentence was later reduced, and a judge
eventually ruled that the Texas mother’s postings weren’t that
damaging, after all.  
 But those two young women could have saved themselves a lot
of misery by staying offline in the first place. Besides, you
can’t count on setting it right later.  
 Criminal Mindset  
 In the Indiana murder case, Ian Clark’s MySpace entry
tended to undercut his claim that he killed the toddler out of
drunken recklessness, not because he has a criminal mindset.  
 Written before the child’s death, the online entry made it
clear Clark had been in trouble with the law before. “Society
labels me as an outlaw and a criminal,” he wrote. And although
the entry rambles incoherently, he clearly claims to have gotten
away with something and urges others to do the same.  
 It was hardly the strongest evidence against him. He was
hurt more by the cold, hard facts, his own, smart-alecky
testimony and his remark to a cop when arrested: “It’s only a C
felony. I can beat this.”  
 Still, Clark argued on appeal that his conviction should be
set aside in part because the judge shouldn’t have let the jury
see his MySpace entry.  
 The Indiana Supreme Court ruled against him last October,
saying Clark had raised the character issue himself so the
posting was fair game.  
 The point is that MySpace is everyone’s space.  
 New Trial  
 Meanwhile in Minnesota, Ahmed Ali is hoping that Facebook
entries posted by the woman who is prosecuting his case will win
him a new trial, according to the Minneapolis Star Tribune.  
 The newspaper reported that Ali’s motion to throw out the
verdict says, “The posts concerned derogatory statements about
people from Somalia, and that she felt comfortable with her case
because of a juror who attended St. John’s University.”  
 Huh?  
 Details on the posting weren’t immediately available from
either Ali’s lawyer or the Hennepin County attorney’s office.  
 If Ali’s skeletal allegation proves true, it wouldn’t be a
good thing for the prosecutor to ruminate about a trial in
progress via Facebook. All the more unsettling if she impugned
the nationality of the accused or implied that a juror would be
pro-prosecution based on academic degree.  
 It may turn out to be unprofessional. As grounds for
reversing a conviction, it sounds silly.  
 Either way that case goes, it bears repeating: Just because
you can say pretty much anything that strikes your fancy,
whether through social networking or twittering or that ancient
form of communication, e-mail, doesn’t mean you should.  
 It may feel intimate as you type away, just you and your
keyboard. But there is a world of people on the other side of
the screen who may demand a price for your blissfully free
speech.  
 (Ann Woolner is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        