-- `Teflon' Merkel, `Wild Card' Westerwelle Upbraided by U.S., Wikileaks Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-11-29T11:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/-teflon-merkel-wild-card-westerwelle-upbraided-by-u-s-wikileaks-says.html
U.S. diplomats referred to German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  as a “teflon” politician who steers
clear of conflict and described Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  as inexperienced, according to cables posted by
 WikiLeaks.org .  “When cornered, Merkel can be tenacious but is risk averse
and rarely creative,” said a cable addressed to President
 Barack Obama  dated March 24, 2009, 10 days before the leaders
met at a NATO summit in the German town of Baden Baden.  The dispatches from the U.S. embassy in Berlin are among
251,287 diplomatic cables being posted by WikiLeaks this week
and published today by  Der Spiegel  magazine as well as
newspapers including the New York Times and the Guardian. The
German government said it “regrets” the publication, though
bilateral ties will not be harmed as a result of the leaks.  Westerwelle, who is also vice chancellor, is a “wild
card” whose “exuberant personality” and inexperience prevent
him from being a reliable ally, the documents said. The
documents cite Defense Minister  Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg  as
placing the blame on Westerwelle for blocking a larger German
troop increase in Afghanistan.  Westerwelle “had been the single biggest obstacle to the
government seeking a bigger increase in German troops for
Afghanistan,” rather than the opposition Social Democratic
Party, said a cable dated Feb. 4, 2010.  ‘Circumspect Ally’  The American envoys prefer to deal with Merkel’s
chancellery staff on diplomacy matters, though they criticize
the German leader for looming in the background of political
debates and using foreign affairs to further her domestic
agenda. Merkel would be a “circumspect ally” to the U.S. in
the months before the September 2009 elections, the cable read.  “We regret this publication,” German government spokesman
 Steffen Seibert  told reporters today in Berlin. “These are
secret cables and foreign policy requires a certain level of
confidentiality.”  Volker Kauder , the caucus leader in parliament for Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union, said the U.S. needs to examine its
security systems.  “Such a major country, a world leader, does have to think
about how to secure its data so not just anybody can get a hold
of it,” he told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  