-- Africa Central Banks Kick Bond Trend in Bid to Increase Lending, Growth
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-30T09:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/africa-central-banks-kick-bond-trend-in-bid-to-increase-lending.html
African central banks are pushing
lenders to cut purchases of government bonds and instead lend
more to the local companies that are key to creating a
functioning commercial economy.  Borrowing costs in some of sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest
economies have barely budged even after central banks slashed
interest rates. Average lending rates at commercial banks in
Kenya were little changed at 13.85 percent in October compared
with 14.2 percent in January last year even after the central
bank cut its  key rate  to a record low of 6 percent. Ghana’s key
rate of 13.5 percent compares with an average 28.5 percent
 charged  by banks. Nigeria has capped lenders’ purchases of
treasury bills and Mauritius may do the same.  Africa’s “top-tier corporate banks feel the risks are
still too high,” said  Graham Stock , chief strategist at London-
based Insparo Asset Management, which oversees about $193
million in its  Africa and the Middle East  fund. “Poor decision-
making led much of the developed world’s banking system into
this crisis, so banks generally are right to be cautious.”  Spurring the commercial-loan market would give industry
funds in a region the International Monetary Fund expects to
grow 5.5 percent in 2011, less than its 6.4 percent estimate for
all developing nations. The main concern for African central
bankers is that inadequate lending may curb growth.  Not Following Trend  “What we haven’t seen, and people have been complaining
about this,” is commercial banks following the trend to the
same extent,  Kofi Wampah , the first deputy governor of the Bank
of Ghana, said in an Oct. 7 interview in Accra. The gap between
the bank interest rates and the central bank should be 5 or 6
percentage points and because banks’ funds are “trapped in
treasury bills,” it takes them months to follow the central
bank in paring their rates, he said.  Banks say a lack of credit-profiling systems and legal
consequences for those who default raises their caution.  “I would like to grow my loan book, but they have to be
good loans,” said  Sanjay Rughani , finance director at Standard
Chartered Plc’s  Ghanaian unit . Advances since the start of 2010
to end-September are largely unchanged from last year at 500
million cedis ($350 million), he said. The lender increased its
holding of government debt to around 550 million cedis this year
from 300 million cedis for the same period in 2009.  More Transparent  Kenya’s central bank has taken steps to improve
transparency, granting CRB Africa the country’s first credit-
rating agency license in February.  Average rates for customers have remained high because
banks are still seeing defaults on repayments, said Gideon
Kariuki, chief executive officer of  Co-operative Bank of Kenya
Ltd. , the country’s fourth-biggest bank by assets. Co-
operative’s net non-performing loans rose 25 percent to 2.9
billion shillings ($36 million) in the year through December.  Still, “there is increased uptake of loans and the rates
at commercial banks have come down,” he said. “The central
bank has influenced that.” Co-operative offered a five-year
loan to corporate customers for as little as 8.7 percent in
September compared with as much as 13 percent a year ago.  Co-operative’s stock has more than doubled on the Nairobi
Stock Exchange this year and three banks are among the 10 best-
performing shares.  High lending rates are spurring companies to seek funds
through less expensive debt and equity offers.  Housing Finance
Co. , Kenya’s only publicly traded mortgage lender, sold 7
billion shillings of  bonds  last month, 80 percent of which pay a
fixed rate of 8.5 percent to raise funds for lending. The rest
of the securities have a floating rate.  Cheaper Than Loans  “We opted for a bond as it’s cheaper than a bank loan and
it’s difficult to get more than a five-year tenor from a bank,”
Housing Finance’s Managing Director  Frank Ireri  said in an Oct.
8 e-mailed response to questions.  In Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy,
lending to private industry fell to a nine-month low of 9.91
trillion naira ($66 billion) in July after a debt crisis caused
by loans to speculators who used the borrowed funds to buy
stocks. Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a Sept. 27
interview he doesn’t expect banks to increase credit until at
least the first quarter of 2011.  Lenders and investors bought Treasury bills, with the yield
on 91-day securities declining to a record of 1.04 percent in
March and averaging 2.26 percent this year, compared with a high
of 22.5 percent in 2002,  central bank data show . Securities with
a similar maturity in the U.S. yield 0.16 percent.  The central bank maintained its key lending rate near a
record low of 6.25 percent at its Nov. 23 meeting. Banks’
average prime-lending rate was 16.9 percent in August, Sanusi
 said . That compares with  18.98 percent  in the last quarter of
last year.  Government Debt Curbs  The country plans to limit lenders’ holdings of government
debt to 30 percent of their total portfolio of fixed-income
securities and they won’t be allowed to hold more than 10
percent of the total issue of a single government debt security,
the Abuja-based central bank said on Sept. 24.  Mauritius on Sept. 11 proposed capping banks’ holdings of
government and central bank debt to “encourage banks to lend
more aggressively rather than direct all their surplus funds to
Treasury bills and official papers.”  Market Size  About 19 percent of residents in 18 sub-Saharan countries
have bank accounts, according to a  Gallup survey , and credit is
mainly extended to companies, banks and their employees,  Yvonne Mhango , an economist at Renaissance Capital, said from
Johannesburg on Nov. 18. Land isn’t always under title deed and
can be communally owned, and in cases where collateral is
available, it isn’t always enforceable, she said.  Sluggish credit extension in countries like Nigeria and
Ghana “has stalled economic activity, reducing growth to below
its full potential,” said Mhango. “Central banks are doing
their part by lowering interest rates, but that alone won’t
solve the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  