-- Ahmadinejad Confirms Several Iran Centrifuges Affected by Computer Virus
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-11-29T18:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/ahmadinejad-confirms-several-iran-centrifuges-affected-by-computer-virus.html
Iran President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
confirmed that several centrifuges used to enrich uranium as
part of the country’s nuclear program were affected by malicious
computer software.  “Problems were created for a limited number of centrifuges
due to the software installed in some of the electronic
equipment,” Ahmadinejad said today in Tehran in comments aired
on state television. “Our experts discovered them and today
they are no longer able to do such a thing.” He didn’t identify
the software involved.  Symantec Corp. , the world’s largest maker of computer
security software, said in a  Nov. 12 study  that the Stuxnet
virus may have been created to sabotage Iran’s uranium-
enrichment work. Iranian authorities, while admitting that the
so-called malware had affected some of the country’s computer
systems, said they had regained control of their networks and
foiled the “enemies’” cyber attacks.  The International Atomic Energy Agency said in a report
this month that Iran delayed plans to make fuel for a reactor
and that it may have run into technical difficulties.  The number of installed centrifuges that Iran uses to
enrich uranium, the heavy metal used to fuel nuclear power
plants and construct atomic bombs, fell to 8,426 from 8,856
three months ago, the IAEA said Nov. 23 in a restricted report
obtained by Bloomberg News. Iran had to stop producing uranium
on Nov. 16 and delayed installing machinery used to build
nuclear-fuel panels, according to the report.  Iran’s nuclear program, which has drawn four sets of United
Nations sanctions, is at the center of the dispute between the
U.S., its allies and Iran. Iran says it is producing uranium to
use as fuel in nuclear reactors and generate electricity while
the other parties accuse it of trying to build atomic weapons.  Ahmadinejad today ruled out negotiations on the country’s
“right to enrich uranium” in future nuclear talks with world
powers. The right to enrich fuel was guaranteed to Iran under
the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  