-- Thai Court Clears Democrat Party of Election Fraud in Victory for Abhisit
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2010-11-29T10:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/thai-court-clears-democrat-party-of-election-fraud-in-victory-for-abhisit.html
A Thai court dismissed charges that
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s ruling Democrat party misused
state campaign funds, clearing one of two cases that may see him
become the third leader forced out since the 2007 election.  The Election Commission’s petition to dissolve the party
was “unlawful because they took more than 15 days to file the
complaint to the court,” Constitutional Court judge Udomsak
Nitimontree said in a live television broadcast. Stocks and the
baht both rose after the ruling.  The Democrat party also faces dissolution on separate
charges it accepted an illegal 258 million baht ($8.5 million)
donation from  TPI Polene Pcl , the nation’s third-biggest cement
maker. That case, which hasn’t begun hearings yet, could still
disqualify Abhisit, who took power in 2008 after a court
disbanded the ruling party tied to ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra .  Today’s verdict may fuel discontent among Thaksin’s
supporters as they aim to unseat Abhisit in an election he must
call next year. A period of calm since the military ended deadly
protests from the pro-Thaksin Red Shirts in May has made Thai
assets among the world’s best performers this year.  “Society must accept the constitution process, the
judicial process,” Abhisit told reporters today after the
verdict. “We are prepared to handle whatever will happen.”  Stocks Gain  Thailand’s  SET Index , which has gained the most in Asia this
year after Sri Lanka and Indonesia, rose 1.7 percent after the
court ruling. The baht, which has strengthened the most this
year among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies outside of Japan,
erased earlier losses.  “Thailand’s political risk is reduced big time with
today’s ruling,” said  Andy Pornprinya , senior vice president
for regional institutional sales at UOB Kay Hian Securities
(Thailand) Pcl in Bangkok. “This will further strengthen
business and consumer sentiment because they are now more
confident about the government’s policy continuation.”  The Constitutional Court ruled four-to-two today to dismiss
charges that the Democrats misused a 29 million baht grant from
the Election Commission for campaigning in a 2005 election.
Three of nine judges excused themselves from the case after
video  clips  posted on Youtube last month showed a meeting
between a Democrat party lawmaker and a court official.  The video footage added to claims from Thaksin’s supporters
that Thailand’s judicial system is biased. Allegations that
Thaksin’s supporters were subjected to harsher court rulings
than his opponents helped fuel political protests this year.  ‘Upper Hand’  “There will be pressure from the Red Shirts about judicial
double standards,” said  Somjai Phagaphasvivat , a lecturer at
Bangkok’s Thammasat University. “The tension won’t be as high
as earlier this year because the government has the upper hand
working in unity with the military to handle any protests.”  Abhisit took power in a December 2008 parliamentary vote
after a court disbanded the pro-Thaksin ruling party for
election fraud under rules written in the post-coup constitution.
Thaksin’s supporters have protested against his rule ever since,
leading to violence that has claimed 95 lives and injured more
than 1,000 people this year.  The  constitution  was written by a military-appointed panel
after the 2006 coup. It allows a party to be disbanded and its
leaders banned for five years if one executive board member is
found guilty of a crime.  A ruling against the Democrats “would mean the whole
establishment would be in trouble,” said  Chaturon Chaisang , a
former Cabinet member in a Thaksin-led government.  Constitutional Changes  Abhisit dropped consideration of a proposal by the
reconciliation committee he formed after this year’s violence to
change that clause and make it harder to disband political
parties. Lawmakers approved two minor constitutional changes
last week, and Abhisit plans to shelve any further amendments
until after the next election.  The Democrat party has implemented programs to refinance
loans and guarantee crop prices in a bid to win the most seats
in an election since 1992. Poorer voters in Thailand’s northeast
have helped Thaksin and his allies win the most seats in the
past four elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  