-- Thai Ruling Party Confident It Will Win Voting Fraud Trial in Abhisit Test
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-11-29T05:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/thai-democrat-party-confident-it-will-survive-court-ruling-chuan-says.html
Thailand’s ruling Democrat party is
confident it will survive a verdict in an election fraud trial
that may see it disbanded and Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
disqualified, former leader  Chuan Leekpai  said.  “If we are guilty, we will be dissolved, but I am
confident we haven’t done anything wrong,” Chuan, a former
prime minister, told reporters at the party’s headquarters in
Bangkok today. “We can accept whatever will happen today.”  The Democrat party faces dissolution on charges that it
misused a 29 million baht ($956,464) grant from the Election
Commission for campaigning in a 2005 election. The verdict will
come after 2 p.m. today, a court official said.  Abhisit’s ouster would force lawmakers to choose the
country’s fifth leader since the military ousted former Prime
Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  in 2006. Courts disqualified two
pro-Thaksin prime ministers in 2008, allowing Abhisit to form a
seven-member coalition that excludes Parliament’s largest party.  Dissolution likely means “the military will simply oversee
another shotgun marriage of disparate political interests in a
new coalition government,” PSA Asia, a Bangkok-based security
and risk consulting company, said in a report today.  The verdict may impact financial markets as political
stability is key to economic growth, central bank Governor
 Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said Nov. 26. Thailand’s global
competitiveness has dropped each year since 2007 due to
government and policy instability, according to the World
Economic Forum’s annual rankings.  Market Impact  Thailand’s  SET Index , which has gained the most in Asia
this year after Sri Lanka and Indonesia, may drop this week due
to uncertainty about the ruling,  Pongrat Ratanatavanananda , an
analyst with Bualuang Securities Pcl, wrote in a report today.
The baht, which has strengthened the most this year among Asia’s
10 most-traded currencies outside of Japan, fell to an eight-
week low before the ruling.  Abhisit took power in a December 2008 parliamentary vote
after a court disbanded the pro-Thaksin ruling party for
election fraud under rules written in the post-coup constitution.
Thaksin’s supporters have protested against his rule ever since,
leading to violence that has claimed 95 lives and injured more
than 1,000 people this year.  ‘Accept the Rules’  “If the court ruling caused the management team to leave
and I am banned, there is still a parliamentary process to elect
a new prime minister,” Abhisit told reporters Nov. 26.
“Everybody must accept the rules.”  Democrat members would wait to see who is banned before
deciding how to proceed, Abhisit said. Remaining party members
will be allowed to join a new party and vote for the next leader.  Possible caretaker prime ministers include  Suthep Thaugsuban ,  Trairong Suwannakhiri  and  Sanan Kajornprasart , all
deputy prime ministers, the Bangkok Post  reported  today, without
citing anyone. Suthep and Trairong are Democrats, while Sanan is
a senior member of Chart Thai Pattana, a coalition party with 24
lawmakers in the 470-strong Parliament.  Abhisit’s ruling seven-party coalition holds about a 70-
seat majority over the opposition bloc led by the pro-Thaksin
 Puea Thai party , the largest party with 186 members.  Dissolution “won’t lead to a change in the coalition
government because the ruling coalition have majority in the
House of Representatives,” Capital Nomura Securities Pcl said
in a research report today.  Video Controversy  Three of the court’s nine judges have excused themselves
from the case after video  clips  posted on Youtube last month
showed a meeting between a lawmaker from Abhisit’s Democrat
party and a Constitutional Court official. The party said the
videos revealed nothing incriminating, and the court official,
Pasit Sakdanarong, was fired.  The video footage added to claims from Thaksin’s supporters
that Thailand’s judicial system is biased. Allegations that
Thaksin’s supporters were subjected to harsher court rulings
than his opponents helped fuel the protests this year.  The  constitution  was written by a military-appointed panel
after the 2006 coup. It allows a party to be disbanded and its
leaders banned for five years if one executive board member is
found guilty of a crime.  Abhisit dropped consideration of a proposal by the
reconciliation committee he formed after this year’s violence to
change that clause and make it harder to disband political
parties. Lawmakers approved two minor constitutional changes
last week, and Abhisit plans to shelve any further amendments
until after the next election, which must be called by the end
of next year.  The Democrat party has implemented programs to refinance
loans and guarantee crop prices in a bid to win the most seats
in an election since 1992. Poorer voters in Thailand’s northeast
have helped Thaksin and his allies win the most seats in the
past four elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  