-- Thailand May Extend Pause in Raising Rates as Economic Growth Set to Slow
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2010-11-30T07:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/thailand-may-extend-pause-in-raising-rates-as-economic-growth-set-to-slow.html
The  Bank of Thailand  may refrain
from raising its policy interest rate, keeping borrowing costs
unchanged for a second consecutive meeting as risks to the
nation’s economic recovery increase.  The central bank will leave  its benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate  at 1.75 percent, according to 12 out of 17
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. The rest expect a
quarter-percentage-point increase. The decision is due at 2:30
p.m. in Bangkok tomorrow.  Thailand and neighboring Malaysia have paused after raising
rates earlier this year, opting to support growth as rising
currencies threaten Asian export gains. Higher borrowing costs
would attract capital inflows that have already spurred gains in
the baht and the central bank will maintain a “flexible”
policy, Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said Nov. 24.  “The central bank may be able to delay the rate increase
as price pressures are not that worrisome now, while the latest
economic data point to a slowdown,” said  Somprawin Manprasert ,
an economist at Tisco Securities Co. in Bangkok. “They may need
to make a move in the second quarter next year as the inflation
risk will be more obvious.”  Thailand’s  economy  grew 6.7 percent last quarter, the
slowest pace this year, as exports eased and agriculture
declined, prompting  the government’s planning agency  to predict
the central bank will refrain from raising interest rates
through next year.  Exports Threatened  The baht has declined more than 2 percent since reaching a
13-year high of 29.46 a dollar on Nov. 10. Still, the currency’s
11 percent increase this year is the biggest gain in Asia
outside Japan, prompting companies including General Motors Co.,
Ford Motor Co. and  Siam Cement Pcl  to say the baht’s strength is
a threat to exports. Thailand is an exporter of cars, rice and
electronics.  The currency lost 0.1 percent to 30.23 per dollar as of
11:24 a.m. Prasarn said yesterday even though pressure on the
baht has subsided for now, capital inflows remain “a phenomenon
that we have to be careful of.”  To curb appreciation pressure on the baht from the capital
inflows, the government last month removed a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds. Prasarn
said last week the central bank has additional tools it could
use, including a tax on financial transactions, sometimes termed
a Tobin tax after  James Tobin , the Nobel Prize-winning U.S.
economist who first suggested the idea in 1971.  Consumer Confidence  Thai export growth  slowed to 15.7 percent in October, the
slowest pace in a year.  Manufacturing growth  eased to 6.2
percent last month, while  consumer confidence  fell in October
for the first time in six months.  The current-account surplus widened to $2.91 billion in
October from $2.77 billion the previous month because of a
rebound in tourism, the central bank said today.  “Export growth may slow down in November and December,”
Bank of Thailand Director  Mathee Supapongse  said today. “We had
forecast that earlier in line with slowing economies of trading
partners, but we don’t know the degree of the slowdown yet as
the advance overseas orders are still okay.”  Seasonally-adjusted GDP, which contracted for a second
consecutive quarter in the three months through September, may
shrink again in the final three months of 2010 because of the
global slowdown, the baht’s strength and the effect of the
floods, according to Kasikornbank Pcl’s research unit.  Still, the Bank of Thailand may raise its policy rate this
week because the central bank has already taken into account the
slowdown in the economy, and the baht isn’t “a one-way bet
anymore,” said  Santitarn Sathirathai , a Singapore-based
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  ‘Many Challenges’  “The central bank should start early to fix inflation
expectations” because monetary policy takes some time to affect
the economy, Santitarn said. Inflation will accelerate next year
once government subsidies expire, he said.  The central bank has said  core inflation , which it uses to
guide policy, may reach the upper end of its target range of as
much as 3 percent next year.  Overall inflation  slowed to 2.8
percent last month from 3 percent in September because of
government subsidies. Core inflation remained at 1.1 percent.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said last week the nation
can’t be “complacent” about economic growth because it faces
“many challenges” including global economic and political
uncertainties.  The nation’s Constitutional Court yesterday cleared
Abhisit’s ruling Democrat party of allegations that it misused
state campaign funds, helping him avoid becoming the third
leader forced from office since the 2007 election.  The Democrat party still faces dissolution on separate
charges it accepted an illegal 258 million-baht ($8.5 million)
donation from TPI Polene Pcl, the nation’s third-biggest cement
maker. A guilty verdict in that case could still disqualify
Abhisit, who took power in 2008 after a court disbanded the
ruling party linked to ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Munoz  in Hong Kong at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  