-- Haiti Presidential Election Ends in Disarray on Allegations of Voter Fraud
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-11-29T05:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/haiti-election-ends-in-disarray-amid-allegations-of-voter-fraud.html
Haiti’s presidential election ended
in disarray as 12 of 18 candidates demanded the vote be annulled
for alleged fraud and the United Nations said related violence
threatened to undermine attempts to contain a cholera epidemic.  Michel Martelly , an ex-pop star, and  Mirlande Manigat , a
former first lady, were among candidates calling for yesterday’s
election to be declared void. Gaillot Dorsinvil, president of
the electoral council, denied that the ballot was fraudulent and
said votes at 96 percent of polling stations had been validated,
Radio Metropole reported.  Results in the election, Haiti’s first since January’s
earthquake, aren’t expected until at least Dec. 7. About 4.5
million people were eligible to cast ballots for a new leader to
replace President  Rene Preval , along with 11 of 30 senators and
all 99 parliament deputies.  A UN statement referred to “numerous incidents” that
threatened the vote and said any “deterioration” of the
security situation could complicate efforts to treat a cholera
outbreak that has killed more than 1,600 people and left 31,000
requiring hospital treatment.  Twelve presidential candidates demanded the vote be thrown
out in a joint statement released yesterday afternoon before
polls closed. Martelly led protests at the provisional electoral
council accompanied by Haitian-born hip-hop artist  Wyclef Jean ,
who was banned from running in the ballot.  ‘Massive Fraud’  Manigat, who led in local polls before the election,
alleged “massive fraud” and “unacceptable” irregularities,
according to a  statement  on her party’s website. Ruling party
candidate  Jude Celestin  didn’t back calls to scrap the vote.  Clashes between rival political factions killed two people
in the capital of Port-au-Prince, Metropole reported. Voting was
halted early in two northern towns as residents protested
alleged irregularities, it said.  Many voters are among the 1.3 million people still living
in tent camps after they were left homeless by the quake, which
killed 300,000. Some of the displaced complained of confusion
about where to vote and said they were turned away from polling
booths, according to Leila Rusciani, a spokeswoman for
Martelly’s campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Granada, Nicaragua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  