-- Korean Won Leads Asian Currency Gains on Exporter Demand; Baht Advances
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-11-29T09:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/taiwan-dollar-leads-asia-currency-gains-on-election-outcome-baht-falls.html
South Korea’s won led gains in Asian
currencies, rebounding from near a two-month low, on speculation
exporters took advantage of a more favorable exchange rate to
repatriate income. The Thai baht strengthened after the ruling
Democrat party was cleared of election fraud in court.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index  rose 0.3 percent
to 114.41 as of 5:06 p.m. in Hong Kong, having ended last week
at a two-month low after a North Korea artillery attack on an
island in the South deterred investment in the region. The won
climbed 0.6 percent to 1,152.46 per dollar in Seoul, the biggest
gain in a week, and the baht reversed earlier losses of as much
as 0.9 percent to trade 0.1 percent higher at 30.17 in Bangkok.  “We may see exporters trying to repatriate income, which
may limit weakness in the won,” said  Yun Se Min , a currency
dealer at Busan Bank in Seoul. “Still, there is heightened
nervousness in the market with the joint-military exercises.”  U.S. and South Korean naval vessels, including the aircraft
carrier USS George Washington, yesterday began four days of
drills in the Yellow Sea as North Korea threatened “a merciless
military counter-attack” should its maritime borders be breached.
The North on Nov. 23 shelled the South Korean island of
Yeonpyeong, killing four people and prompting retaliatory fire,
and the won a day later reached 1,172.50 per dollar, the weakest
level since Sept. 9.  Court Ruling  In Thailand, the baht gained after the Constitutional Court
cleared Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva’s ruling Democrat party
of allegations that it misused state campaign funds, helping him
avoid becoming the third leader forced from office since the
2007 election.  The Election Commission’s petition to dissolve the party
was “unlawful because they took more than 15 days to file the
complaint to the court,” Constitutional Court judge Udomsak
Nitimontree read out on live television. The Democrat party
faced dissolution on charges that it misused a 29 million baht
($956,464) grant from the Election Commission for campaigning in
a 2005 election. A guilty verdict would’ve disqualified Abhisit,
who took power in 2008 after a court disbanded the ruling party
linked to former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.  “It clears some political hurdles and it’s a relief rally
for the baht for the time being,” said Kobsidthi Silpachai,
head of capital markets research at Kasikornbank Pcl. The
currency will strengthen to 29 by the end of this year, he said.  Taiwan Election  Taiwan’s dollar closed 0.1 percent stronger at NT$30.80
versus the greenback, earlier gaining as much as 1.4 percent,
after the island’s ruling party won key local elections,
prompting speculation President Ma Ying-jeou will extend pro-
China policies that have boosted investment. The currency
weakened in the final minute of trading on suspected
intervention by the central bank.  Taiwan’s dollar gained after Kuomintang won mayoral races
on Nov. 27 in three out of five cities including Taipei, its
traditional stronghold and the island’s economic and political
center. Securing Taipei was crucial to controlling Taiwan for Ma,
who has strengthened commercial ties with China, the world’s
fastest-growing major economy and the island’s biggest trading
partner and investment destination.  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar gained 0.4 percent to
S$1.3161 versus its U.S. counterpart, the Malaysian ringgit rose
0.3 percent to 3.1525 and Indonesia’s rupiah was unchanged from
Nov. 26 at 9,013. Financial markets in the Philippines were
closed for a holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 