-- Taiwan Dollar, Stocks Rise as Ruling Party Wins Taipei Among Local Polls
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2010-11-29T09:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/taiwan-dollar-stocks-rise-as-ruling-party-wins-taipei-among-local-polls.html
Taiwan ’s dollar and stocks
advanced as the island’s ruling party won key local elections,
prompting speculation President  Ma Ying-jeou  will extend pro-
China policies that boosted investment.  The local dollar rose 0.1 percent to close at NT$30.800
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc.
Taiwan’s currency earlier appreciated by 1.4 percent. The
benchmark  Taiex Index  gained 55.02, or 0.7 percent, to 8,367.17,
the highest level since Nov. 22.  Kuomintang  secured mayorships
Nov. 27 in three out of five cities including Taipei, the
island’s economic and political center.  Securing Taipei was crucial to controlling Taiwan for Ma,
who has strengthened commercial ties with  China , the world’s
fastest-growing major economy and the island’s biggest trading
partner and investment destination. The president and his
predecessors, the DPP’s  Chen Shui-bian  and Kuomintang’s  Lee Teng-hui , are among former Taipei mayors.  “The election results mean cooperation with China will
continue,” said  Parker Wu , a fund manager at the Agriculture
Bank of Taiwan, who helps oversee the equivalent of $98 million.
“There was a lot of concern before the election about the
possibility of KMT losing badly. With that uncertainty gone,
some investors who had held back their funds are entering the
market again.”  Kuomintang also won mayorships in Xinbei and Taichung city.
The opposition Democratic Progressive Party took the other two
municipalities, according to the  Central Election Commission .
The five municipalities are home to 60 percent of Taiwan’s 23
million people.  Bond Yield  Taiwan’s government bonds were little changed. The yield on
the 1.125 percent bond maturing September 2020 was at 1.4
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market, Taiwan’s biggest
exchange for bonds.  The local dollar pared most of the day’s gain in the last
minutes of trading on speculation the central bank intervened to
check appreciation that may hurt exporters, according to traders
who declined to be identified because of the sensitivity of the
matter.  The  Taiex index  has advanced 2.2 percent this year after
surging 78 percent in 2009 as improving relations with China
boosted capital inflows.  Formosa International Hotels Corp. , the island’s hotel
operator, climbed 5 percent to NT$507, the highest level since
Oct. 26.  Ruentex Industries Ltd. , which owns a stake in RT-Mart
China, the mainland’s largest hypermarket chain by retail sales,
gained 1.3 percent to NT$94.70.  China Airlines Ltd.  surged 6.8
percent to NT$24.25, the most since Aug. 2, while  EVA Airways
Corp.  advanced 5 percent to NT$34.50. Both carriers operate
direct flights to China.  Relations between Taiwan and China, separated by the Taiwan
Strait, are at the most cordial in more than 60 years after Ma
took office in May 2008. He dropped his predecessor’s pro-
independence stance and made  economic  relations the priority of
his administration.  China Relations  “The improvement in Taiwan-China relations will continue,
and this is favorable for the currency and stocks,” said  Eric Hsing , a Taipei-based fixed-income trader at First Securities
Inc. “Foreign investors will stay.”  Taiwan on June 29 signed an Economic Framework Cooperation
Agreement, its first trade accord with China, to cut tariffs and
increase access to services including banking, securities and
insurance. The pact opened the door for Taiwan to sign similar
deals with other countries, including a free-trade agreement
with  Singapore  on Aug. 5.  Taiwanese-run factories in the mainland make 11 percent of
China’s  electronics exports  including iPhones and Playstations,
according to the  Taiwan Institute of Economic Research . About 29
percent of the island’s overseas shipments head across the
strait,  government data  show.  The two sides are poised to hold the sixth cross-strait
talks in Taiwan next month. Since Ma took office, the government
has signed 14 agreements with the mainland.  Taiwan has exercised de facto independence with its own
foreign policy, currency and elected government since  Mao Zedong ’s Communist Party took over the mainland in 1949,
causing the Kuomintang to flee to the island after losing the
civil war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Yu-Huay Sun  in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  