-- Germany’s DAX Closes Little Changed, Posts Third Monthly Gain
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-11-30T16:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/altira-deutsche-postbank-gfk-hochtief-german-equity-preview.html
Germany’s benchmark DAX Index closed
little changed, with the gauge posting a third monthly gain, as
weakness among bank shares amid concern that Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis will worsen offset an advance at  Hochtief AG .  Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank AG fell, tracking losses
in European banks. Hochtief gained 2 percent after the German
financial regulator BaFin cleared the path for a 2.7 billion-
euro ($3.6 billion) takeover by Actividades de Construcción y
Servicios SA.  The  DAX  lost 9.48, or 0.1 percent, to 6,688.49 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge climbed 1.3 percent in
November as the U.S. Federal Reserve unveiled another round of
bond purchases to boost the world’s largest economy, a tactic
known as quantitative easing.  “The banking sector has again come under pressure today as
the market starts to focus, not only on Portugal, but on Spain
as well and European banking exposure there,” said Michael
Hughes, a markets analyst at CMC Markets in London.  Banks and the euro are being dragged down by concern
Portugal and Spain may suffer the fate of Ireland, which had to
ask for an 85 billion-euro ($111 billion) rescue package to help
bail out its banks. Italian and Spanish bond yields rose today
compared with German debt. The extra yield investors demand to
hold 10-year Italian debt instead of benchmark German bunds
widened to more than 200 basis points for the first time since
the euro’s debut in 1999.  Real-estate prices in 20 U.S. cities rose in September at
the slowest pace in eight months, showing the latest slump in
sales is destabilizing housing.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values climbed 0.6
percent from September 2009, the smallest gain since January,
the last time prices declined year over year, the group said
today in New York. The increase was smaller than the 1 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The DAX pared declines after a report showed businesses in
the U.S. expanded at a faster pace in November than forecast.
The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
business barometer rose to 62.5 this month, highest since April,
from 60.6 in October. The Conference Board’s confidence index
rose to 54.1, exceeding the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, the country’s largest banks,
retreated 1.4 percent to 36.59 euros and 1.8 percent to 5.61
euros, respectively. European banking shares posted the second-
biggest decline among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index today, falling as much as 1.7 percent.  Hochtief rose 2 percent to 57.05 euros. Madrid-based ACS on
Sept. 16 announced an all-stock offer to buy Hochtief, proposing
eight of its own shares for every five of the German builder’s.
Bafin approved the proposal yesterday, having asked for
“significant improvements” from ACS.  “From our point of view the only way to defend ACS is to
expose the fundamental value of the company, which is
significantly above the current share price,” DZ Bank analyst
 Marc Nettelbeck  wrote in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 