-- Amarin Omega-3 Drug Lowers Blood-Fat Levels in Late-Stage Trial
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-11-29T12:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/amarin-omega-3-drug-lowers-blood-fat-levels-in-late-stage-trial.html
An  Amarin Corp.  experimental
medicine lowered fatty chemicals in the blood by as much as 45
percent in a final-stage clinical study. Amarin rose in pre-
market trading.  Patients with triglyceride levels of more than 750
milligrams per deciliter of blood who were given a four-gram
dose of AMR101 saw the blood fat reduced by 45 percent compared
with patients taking a placebo, the Mystic, Connecticut, and
Dublin-based company said in an e-mailed statement today. Such
patients taking a two-gram dose had a reduction of 33 percent,
Amarin said. Triglycerides are a type of fat that can lead to
heart disease when found in the blood at high levels.  AMR101 is an omega-3 fatty acid sourced from certain fish
oils and would compete with  GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s  Lovaza, the
only omega-3-based prescription drug approved in the U.S. Lovaza
generated sales of 450 million pounds ($703 million) for the U.K
company last year. Amarin said today it will ask U.S. regulators
to approve the medicine next year, earlier than its original
forecast of a 2012 submission.  “We believe that these results and the overall profile of
AMR101 position the drug candidate to be best in class in this
market,” Amarin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Joseph Zakrzewski  said in an e-mailed statement today. More than 3.8
million people in the U.S. have high triglyceride levels, he
said.  Stock Surge  Amarin rose 60 cents, or 17 percent, to $4.15 in  trading 
before the Nasdaq Stock Market opened. Before today, the stock
had more than doubled this year, giving the company a market
value of $350.8 million.  The trial, dubbed Marine, is the first of two final-stage
studies looking at patients with very high triglyceride levels.
The study found that overall, patients treated with a four-gram
dose of the drug had a 33 percent reduction in triglycerides,
compared with a 20 percent reduction in patients taking a two-
gram dose. The study looked at 229 patients over 12 weeks.  The drug didn’t significantly increase low-density-
lipoprotein cholesterol, the company said. Similar treatments
may raise cholesterol by 40 to 50 percent in patients with high
triglycerides,  Harold Bays , medical director at Louisville
Metabolic and Atherosclerosis Center and principal investigator
of the study, said in the statement.  The second study, dubbed Anchor, is likely to finish
enrolling 650 patients before Christmas, Amarin spokesman Mark
Swallow said in an e-mail.  The company said Nov. 10 it had net cash outflows of $6.2
million in the three months ended September 30, with $5.5
million paid in connection to the two clinical trials.  Amarin’s net loss nearly tripled to $59 million last year
from $20 million a year earlier. The company hasn’t generated
any revenue in three years, compared with $500,000 in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at   ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  