-- Apple Lawyers Up for Patent Showdowns With Nokia
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-11-29T19:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/apple-beefs-up-legal-team-for-patent-showdowns-with-nokia-motorola-htc.html
Steve Jobs made  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone
one of the best-selling smartphones on the market with its touch
screen, fast Web connection and access to more than 300,000
downloadable applications. Now he’s adding lawyers to the mix.  Apple is squaring off this week against  Nokia Oyj , the
world’s largest mobile-phone maker, before the International
Trade Commission. The dispute, in which each side alleges
intellectual property violations, is also a precursor to Apple
patent battles with Motorola Inc. and  HTC Corp.   At stake is leadership in the U.S. smartphone market.
Cupertino, California-based Apple is trying to protect its right
to import the iPhone, while shutting out rivals, particularly
those with devices powered by Google Inc.’s Android operating
system, the world’s most popular smartphone software. Android-
based phones also are made abroad.  “These are very well-known, deep-pocketed, high-end
manufacturers,” said  Lyle Vander Schaaf , an attorney at Brinks
Hofer Gilson & Lione in Washington, who handles cases before the 
commission. “Usually you have one 800-pound gorilla going after
a new entrant. Here you’ve got 800-pound gorillas fighting each
other.”  Apple  has been the most-sued technology company since 2008,
the year after the iPhone was introduced, topping  Microsoft
Corp. ,  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and  Dell Inc. , according to
LegalMetric Inc., a compiler of litigation data based in St.
Louis.  Fire With Fire  Jobs, Apple’s chief executive officer, is firing back by
recruiting lawyers who have fought for and against some of the
world’s largest companies, including Microsoft,  Intel Corp.  and
Broadcom Corp. Broadcom won a patent dispute with Qualcomm Inc.
last year that ended with Qualcomm paying $891 million in cash
over four years.  Nokia, based in Espoo, Finland, took the first shot in the
case before the ITC this week. The company sued in October 2009,
claiming Apple infringed Nokia patents, and filed the trade
complaint in December.  “Apple was a decade late to market for mobile phones,”
 Patrick Flinn , a lawyer at Alston & Bird who represents Nokia,
said in opening arguments today in Washington. “You can
undercut competition when you use the inventions of others.”  Apple contends Nokia’s real motive is to force it to
surrender access to proprietary technology that differentiates
the iPhone from competitors, a charge Nokia denies.  “Apple’s explosive success, especially in the smartphone
market, came at Nokia’s expense,”  William Lee , a lawyer at
WilmerHale who represents Apple, said at the hearing. “Having
failed in head-to-head competition, Nokia turned to
litigation.”  Staff Recommendation  The ITC staff, which acts as a third party in the public
interest, has recommended that the judge find that Apple didn’t
violate Nokia’s patent rights, said staff lawyer Rett Snotherly.  Apple  has made its own patent-infringement claims that
could result in Nokia phones, including those powered by its
Symbian operating system, being blocked from the U.S. market.
Apple’s claims against Nokia were heard by an ITC judge early
this month. The staff also recommended that no violation be
found in that case.  “Other companies must compete with us by inventing their
own technologies, not just by stealing ours,”  Bruce Sewell ,
Apple’s general counsel, said in a Dec. 11 statement on the
Nokia case.  ‘Clash of the Titans’  Sewell, who joined the company last year after almost 15
years at  Intel , is leading Apple’s legal efforts. During his
time at Intel, including as general counsel, the company was
known to use lawsuits to bottle up rivals in costly legal
disputes, said  Rob Enderle , president of Enderle Group, a
technology consulting firm in San Jose, California.  Before working at Intel, Sewell was a partner at Phoenix-
based law firm Brown & Bain, which represented Apple in its
copyright case against Microsoft.  While many of the technological features behind smartphones
have been around for years, their surging popularity has led
large companies to go after one another rather than upstarts,
said  Steve Perlman , CEO of online game company OnLive in Palo
Alto, California. He holds more than 100 patents.  “Patents are a form of market power,” said Perlman, a
former scientist at Apple. “We’re seeing a clash of the
titans.”  The  International Trade Commission , a quasi-judicial
agency, was set up to protect domestic markets from unfair trade
practices. It has the power to ban imports of products found to
infringe U.S. patents.  ‘Stop Android’  “It’s really high stakes,” said Vander Schaaf. “It’s a
‘who’s going to blink first’ issue.”  Apple may have even more riding on ITC cases against HTC
and Motorola, which use Android. Devices running Google’s
software accounted for almost 26 percent of  worldwide smartphone
sales  in the third quarter, compared with almost 17 percent for
the iPhone, according to Gartner Inc.  “The effort here is to stop Android” through the trade
commission, Enderle said.  In March, Apple filed an ITC complaint against Taiwan-based
HTC, the world’s biggest maker of handsets using Google and
Microsoft operating systems. Apple alleged HTC infringed several
patents, including ones related to mobile phones. A trial, which
will include additional claims against Nokia, is scheduled to
begin in February.  Linda Mills, a spokeswoman for HTC, which has filed
counter-complaints against Apple, declined to comment. Motorola
spokeswoman  Jennifer Erickson  declined to comment.  IPhone Versus Droid  A unit of Schaumburg, Illinois-based  Motorola  filed an ITC
complaint against Apple in October, alleging it infringed 18
patents. In response, Apple filed a case claiming the Droid and
other Motorola smartphones are using Apple intellectual property
without permission.  Apple has hired some of the nation’s top patent lawyers as
outside counsel. They include  Lee  of WilmerHale in Boston, who
successfully represented  Broadcom  in its fight against Qualcomm;
 Robert Krupka  of Kirkland & Ellis, who negotiated a 2005
settlement in which Apple agreed to pay $100 million to Creative
Technology Ltd., maker of the Zen music player; and  Matt Powers 
of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, who successfully defended the
patent on Merck & Co.’s biggest product, the $4.7 billion-a-year
asthma drug Singulair.  This year, Apple added an in-house attorney,  Noreen Krall ,
to focus on intellectual property litigation. Krall had been
chief IP counsel for Sun Microsystems Inc. and a staff attorney
at  International Business Machines Corp. , according to the
 Intellectual Property Owners Association .  The most likely outcome is that the companies agree to end
the litigation by licensing each other’s patents, said Enderle.  Until then, “it’s going to get a lot worse before it gets
better,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 