-- Tariq Aziz Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison Over Fourth Set of Iraq Charges
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-29T14:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/tariq-aziz-sentenced-to-10-years-in-prison-over-fourth-set-of-iraq-charges.html
The Iraqi High Tribunal in Baghdad
sentenced  Saddam Hussein ’s deputy prime minister,  Tariq Aziz , to 10 years in prison for his role in the regime’s crimes
against Kurds, state-sponsored al-Iraqiyah television reported.  At least three co-defendants received the death penalty
during today’s sentencing for participating in the “liquidation
and displacement” of Shiite Muslim Faili Kurds from 1980 to
1988, al-Iraqiyah said. Charges against Hussein’s half-brothers,
Sabawi Ibrahim al-Hassan and Watban Ibrahim, were dropped.  It was the fourth set of charges against Aziz, 74, who was
sentenced last month to hang in a case that linked him to the
persecution of Shiite parties. Aziz was the eight of spades in a
deck of cards issued by the U.S. to portray the most-wanted
regime leaders after the 2003 invasion that ousted Hussein.  Aziz’s defense team is pushing for their client to be
spared the death penalty. On Nov. 17, President  Jalal Talabani 
said he won’t ratify the execution order. According to Iraq’s
constitution, the president can only grant pardons with the
“recommendation” of the prime minister.  Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki  is a Shiite who went into
hiding in the 1970s after Hussein started cracking down on
Shiite political leaders opposed to his rule.  Talabani is a Kurd from northern Iraq, where Hussein tried
to quash the predominantly Sunni Muslim Kurds’ claims to the
city of Kirkuk through their forced removal and the settlement
of Sunni Arabs.  Poison Gas  In March 1988, Hussein unleashed a chemical attack on the
northern city of Halabja, part of the so-called Anfal campaign
against a Kurdish rebellion that began during the Iran-Iraq War.
As many as 180,000 Kurds were killed in the north from 1987 to
1988, New York-based Human Rights Watch has said.  The High Tribunal sentenced Aziz and  Ali Hassan al-Majid ,
known as “Chemical Ali,” to 15 years in prison in March 2009
for crimes against humanity in the killing of Baghdad merchants
in the 1990s. Al-Majid was hanged on Jan. 25 for his role in
poisonous-gas attacks on Iraqi Kurds.  Aziz surrendered shortly after the invasion and was held in
a U.S.-run prison before being handed over to Iraqi authorities
in July as part of the Obama administration’s phased
pullout of American forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 