-- Arizona's Campaign Public Financing System Draws U.S. High Court Scrutiny
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-29T15:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/arizona-s-campaign-public-financing-system-draws-u-s-high-court-scrutiny.html
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to
hear a Republican-backed challenge to an Arizona law that aims
to even out campaign spending, accepting a case that raises
questions about public financing programs around the country.  The justices today said they will review the 12-year-old
Arizona system, which ties the funds participating candidates
receive to the amount of money raised by or spent on behalf of
their opponents. Several other states use similar trigger
mechanisms, according to the lawmakers challenging the measure.  A ruling striking down the measure would eliminate one of
the most effective ways to encourage candidates to take part in
public financing systems, according to  Rick Hasen , an election-
law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles. The high
court has already signaled its doubts about the Arizona law,
intervening in June to prevent its use in the 2010 election.  “The court is likely to take away one of the only tools
available to drafters of public financing measures to make such
financing attractive to candidates,” Hasen wrote in a blog post
yesterday.  The Supreme Court under Chief Justice  John Roberts  has
shown itself to be skeptical of campaign finance regulations,
most visibly in a 5-4 decision in January striking down decades-
old restrictions on corporate campaign spending.  The Arizona challengers, including Representative  John McComish , say the system violates the First Amendment rights of
candidates who don’t seek public funds. They point to a 2008
Supreme Court decision voiding a federal law that freed
opponents of self-financed candidates from the usual campaign
contribution limits.  Punish and Deter  “The government may not single out, punish and deter the
exercise of First Amendment Rights by causing the campaign
financing efforts of traditional candidates and their supporters
to produce fundraising advantages for their political
opponents,” McComish argued in his appeal.  The 2008 ruling, like the corporate spending case, was a 5-
4 decision that divided the court along ideological lines.  The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
upheld the Arizona system in May, overturning a trial judge’s
decision. The panel said the effect on free-speech rights was
minimal.  Arizona officials, including Secretary of State Ken
Bennett, defend the measure as a way to reduce the corrupting
influence of campaign contributors.  “By eliminating a necessary component of any contributions-
for-political-favors scheme, it fights quid-pro-quo corruption,”
lawyers for the state argued.  The justices will hear arguments next year and probably
rule by the end of June.  The cases are McComish v. Bennett, 10-239 and Free
Enterprise Club’s Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett, 10-238.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 