-- Marshall Wace Fund Returns 18%, to Add Shares of China Insurers, Citigroup
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-11-29T00:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/marshall-wace-fund-returns-18-to-add-shares-of-china-insurers-citigroup.html
Two global financials funds managed
by Marshall Wace LLP, the London-based asset manager founded by
 Paul Marshall  and  Ian Wace , have trimmed bets on rising Indian
banking stocks, added shares in Citigroup Inc. and Chinese
insurers, and expects the European debt crisis to spread.  Marshall Wace Global Financials Emerging Growth Fund  has
cut the net position in India to zero after wagers on the
country’s banking stocks to appreciate helped it to an 18
percent return in the first 10 months, said its Hong Kong-based
manager  Amit Rajpal .  HFR Fund-Weighted Composite Index  gained 7
percent in the same period. Net position is the difference
between bets on rising and falling stocks.  The Marshall Wace financials funds are making the changes
as the European debt crisis threatens to spread to Portugal and
Spain after Greece and Ireland accepted European Union bailouts.
The contagion could hurt stock values in countries including
India, Brazil and Australia, which have been relying on capital
inflows to cover current account deficits, Rajpal said.  “In an environment of heightened risk aversion, capital
flows will be constrained and compromised,” Rajpal, 37, a
former head of Morgan Stanley’s global financials research team,
said in an interview. “Brazil is ripe for a correction. In the
short term, India may also face stress.”  By contrast, stock of  Citigroup , the world’s largest
multinational emerging market bank, may gain 50 percent over the
next six months with the completion of the U.S. government sale
of its remaining 12 percent  stake , he added. Citigroup is the
largest single-stock holding of the emerging growth fund and
 Marshall Wace Global Financials Market-Neutral Fund , which
gained 8.5 percent in the same period, he said, without giving
the size of the holding.  Citigroup  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit predicted
in June 2009 that Citicorp, the company’s biggest operation by
revenue, will  derive  half of its future business from emerging
markets. Citigroup’s emerging markets business is already bigger
and more profitable than HSBC Holdings Plc’s, with a balanced
mix of consumer, institutional businesses and geographical
breakdown, said Rajpal.  “The other U.S. institutions don’t have this footprint to
drive growth,” he said. “But the stock is not  valued  for the
footprint, the  growth  opportunity and return profit that its
emerging market business offers. Part of the constraint has been
the very heavy pressure on the stock from the ongoing government
exit.”  The Marshall Wace funds have bought shares in  Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co. , the nation’s second-largest insurer, and
 China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co. , the country’s third-biggest
listed insurer since the third quarter, said Rajpal.  Chinese life insurers’ profits are set to grow as rising
interest rates lift investment returns yet yields promised to
policyholders are capped at 2.5 percent, he said.  China Rates  The People’s Bank of China raised benchmark interest rates
in October for the first time since 2007 as inflation reached
4.4 percent. Rates could rise another 2.5 percentage points as
the government tries to curb rising prices, Rajpal said.  The funds have been selling borrowed stocks in banks in
European countries including Spain, Portugal, Greece and the
U.K., said Rajpal without identifying the stocks. Banks in the
first three countries, which will need to make bigger provisions
for their lending and write down the value of their bond
investments, may need to raise more money to replenish capital,
potentially diluting the interests of minority stakeholders and
putting governments in control.  “Their equity value is severely compromised,” Rajpal
said. “They’re trading like normal companies, which give us the
opportunities on the short side.”  Rajpal is still bullish on smaller emerging markets such as
Argentina, Philippines, Thailand, Nigeria, Qatar and Saudi
Arabia, which along with India were among the biggest profit
contributors to the funds in the first 10 months.  The countries run current-account surpluses, have low
leverage, liquid and well-capitalized banking systems, he said.
The funds have owned shares in Argentina’s  Banco Galicia y
Buenos Aires SA ,  Zenith Bank Plc  in Nigeria,  Riyad Bank  in Saudi
Arabia.  “They’re largely ignored by foreign investors because
people are very much focused on the bigger markets,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  