-- Asian Stocks Advance as Ireland's Bailout Outweighs Korea Tension Concerns
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-29T10:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/asian-stocks-rise-led-by-japanese-exporters-as-yen-weakens-bhp-declines.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index erasing its loss for November, after Europe
agreed to a bailout for Ireland, offsetting concern that
tensions on the Korean peninsula may escalate.  Sony Corp., Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, rose 2.8 percent in Tokyo after European government
officials threw debt-strapped Ireland a lifeline and Nomura
rated the stock a “buy.”  Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s third-
largest automaker by sales that gets about 75 percent of its
sales abroad, climbed 1.5 percent. Korea Exchange Bank slumped
5.9 percent in Seoul as South Korea’s president said patience
only invites more provocation from North Korea.  “Global thematics are driving markets right now,” said
 Jason Teh , who helps manage about $2.6 billion at Investors
Mutual Ltd. in Sydney. “You’ve got the Irish bailout on the one
hand and, meanwhile, the threat of war on the other side of the
world, which is causing jitters.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 0.8 percent to 129.92
as of 7:33 p.m. in Tokyo, rebounding from three consecutive
weeks of declines. About three stocks climbed for each that fell.
The gauge lost 2.1 percent last week after North Korea fired
artillery shells into South Korea.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  advanced 0.9 percent, as a
European Central Bank governing council member,  Christian Noyer ,
said in Tokyo that the ECB will maintain emergency measures as
long as necessary.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.4 percent, reversing a
loss of as much as 0.9 percent, with banks leading the gains.
South Korea’s  Kospi index  fell 0.3 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index advanced 1.3 percent while the
 Shanghai Composite Index  fell 0.2 percent in China.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 0.7 percent amid speculation
that relations with China will improve after the ruling
Kuomintang party won the majority in key local elections.  Korean Tensions  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.3
percent. The index lost 0.8 percent on Nov. 26 in New York as a
stronger dollar weighed on commodity prices and banks declined
amid mounting concern about Europe and North Korea. Markets were
open for half a day following the Thanksgiving holiday.  European government officials, meeting yesterday in
Brussels, threw Ireland an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion)
lifeline and scaled back proposals to saddle bondholders with
losses in future budget crises, seeking to reverse the market
selloff menacing the euro.  The ECB’s Noyer, who is also Banque de France governor,
declined to comment on whether the Irish crisis will cause a
delay to the ECB’s plans to exit from non-standard monetary
measures. He didn’t specify the measures to which he was
referring, speaking to reporters in Tokyo today.  Televised Address  South Korea’s President Lee Myung Bak said in a televised
national address today that he would build up South Korea’s
military and make North Korea pay for any more provocations.  North Korea “will deal a merciless military counter-attack
at any provocative act of intruding into its territorial
waters,” according to a Rodong newspaper commentary carried on
Nov. 28 by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency. U.S.
and South Korean warships led by the aircraft carrier USS George
Washington have begun four days of drills in the region.  Sony rose 2.8 percent to 2,970 yen in Tokyo. Nissan Motor
climbed 1.5 percent to 797 yen.  Bridgestone Corp. , the world’s
largest tiremaker, gained 2 percent to 1,551 yen.  The yen depreciated to 84.19 against the dollar today in
Tokyo, matching its level in New York on Nov. 26 and the lowest
level since Sept. 28. A weaker yen boosts the value of overseas
income at Japanese companies when converted into their home
currency.  Australian Banks  Australian banks led gains in Sydney.  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia , the nation’s biggest lender by market value, rose 2.1
percent to A$48.57. Westpac Banking Corp., the second largest,
advanced 1.9 percent to A$21.55.  “Our banks, as well as most financial stocks, responded
favorably to the reduction in risk perception” after Ireland’s
bailout, said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350 million at
White Funds Management Pty in Sydney.  China Airlines Ltd. , Taiwan’s largest carrier, led airlines,
property and hotel stocks higher in Taipei trading after the
ruling party Kuomintang won three of five seats in the mayoral
elections on Nov. 27. The stock jumped 6.8 percent to NT$24.25.
EVA Airways Corp., the second-largest carrier in Taiwan, climbed
5 percent to NT$34.50. Formosa International Hotels Corp., the
island’s largest hotel operator, surged 5 percent to NT$507.  ‘Cross-Strait Policies’  “Investors think cross-strait policies will continue after
the election results and hence boost related shares,” said  Sam Hsieh , a Taipei-based fund manager at Fuh Hwa Investment Trust
Co., who helps oversee the equivalent of $8.2 billion.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 7 percent this year to
Nov. 26, compared with gains of 6.7 percent by the S&P 500 and 5
percent by the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . Stocks in the Asian gauge
are valued at 14.2 times estimated earnings on average, compared
with 14 times for the S&P 500 and 11.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  Korea Exchange Bank slumped 5.9 percent to 11,200 won in
Seoul. The lender separately signed a preliminary agreement with
Hyundai Group for a stake in Hyundai Engineering & Construction
Co., Yonhap News reported without saying where it got the
information. GS Engineering & Construction Corp., a South Korean
builder, sank 2 percent to 100,000 won.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 