-- AT&T, Sprint Target Over-50 Phone Users Eager to LOL
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-11-29T21:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/at-t-sprint-target-over-50-mobile-phone-users-eager-to-lol-lykyamy.html
Connie Finn, a 54-year-old homemaker
in Kirkland, Washington, had never sent a text message from her
mobile phone before this year. Then came a plea from her 26-
year-old daughter.  “She said she’d be in touch a lot more if I’d just get a
texting plan,” said Finn. “I was reluctant because of my bad
spelling, but that was before I realized the young people don’t
take time to spell correctly either.”  Wireless operators from  AT&T Inc.  to T-Mobile USA see
opportunity in people like Finn. As growth in voice revenue
slows, carriers are pushing data services and the over-50 market
is largely untapped. Forty-two percent of Americans 50 or older
sent at least one text in a given month last quarter, compared
with 85 percent of 13- to 34-year-olds, according to  ComScore
Inc.   “It’s a very attractive market for us,” said  Michael Woodward , vice president of AT&T’s mobile-phone portfolio. “The
opportunity has been to improve the rate at which people are
attaching data plans and that starts with texting.”  To reach the older market, wireless carriers are offering
lessons in how to text, introducing phones with oversized
buttons and fine-tuning their marketing strategies. AT&T has
boosted its advertising in media that draw older generations,
including the AARP magazine from the over-50 advocacy group and
the “Dancing With the Stars” series on  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC.  AT&T lost 23 cents to $27.70 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have declined 1.2 percent
this year.  Texting Explosion  Texts, short written messages sent from one mobile phone to
another, have surged in popularity. In the U.S., there were
173.2 billion such missives in June, up from 7.2 billion five
years earlier,  according to  the Washington, D.C.-based wireless
trade group CTIA.  Younger generations have embraced texting as pricing has
dropped, said Woodward. AT&T, Verizon Wireless and  Sprint Nextel
Corp.  typically charge 20 cents per message sent or received,
and offer unlimited texting plans for $10 to $20.  Older Americans like Finn are getting pulled into texting
because of their children and grandchildren, said analyst  Ramon Llamas  of Framingham, Massachusetts-based research firm IDC.  Sprint helps them along with free tutoring on cell-phone
basics in its retail stores. The “Ready Now” training programs
answer any questions customers have, including how to read and
send texts.  The demographic is important to carriers’ long-term
prospects. The percentage of Americans 65 or more is expected to
rise to 14.4 percent, or 46.8 million, in 2015 from 12.7 percent
or 38.7 million in 2008, according to the  U.S. Census Bureau . By
2025, the group will represent 17.9 percent of the U.S., or 63.9
million, the data show.  Phonemakers, Website Operators  Michael Shore, a 58-year-old realtor in Beverly Hills,
California, began texting this year to communicate with clients.  “The beauty of texting is that somehow it’s
psychologically embedded in us to respond immediately,” he
said. “It’s almost like being asked a question face-to-face.”  Website operators and mobile-phone makers spy opportunity
in the demographic shift too. The blog  Cell Phones For Seniors 
caters to people looking for simple phones and services.  Samsung
Electronics Co.  and  Pantech Co.  make phones with oversized
buttons and bigger screens, including the $49.99 Pantech Ease
from AT&T with backlit keys and large fonts.  ROTFL, LYKYAMY  GreatCall Inc. , based in San Diego, got its start four
years ago with simple calling plans and cellphones under the
Jitterbug brand. The carrier’s phones have preloaded text
messages, including “Will arrive soon” and “Where are you?”  David Inns , chief executive officer of GreatCall, said he
expects the rate of texting among those 55 and older to hit 80
percent in the two to three years from about 30 percent today.  For Finn, the Washington homemaker, another obstacle had
been the at-times baffling abbreviations common in texting.
There’s OMG for “Oh my God” and LOL for “Laughing out loud.”
The more obscure include ROTFL for “Rolling on the floor
laughing” and LYKYAMY for “Love you, kiss you, already miss
you.”  In the end, Finn chose not to be intimidated.  “I just invented my own,” she said. “My daughter doesn’t
always know what they mean, but now I am surprised by how much I
enjoy it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  