-- Australia's Economy Likely Entered `Soft Patch' on Higher Rates, Currency
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 2010-11-30T05:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/australia-gdp-probably-hit-soft-patch-as-rates-currency-rose.html
Australia’s  economic growth  slowed
last quarter as higher borrowing costs and less government
stimulus weakened the housing market, while a stronger currency
hurt exports, economists predicted a government report will show.  Gross domestic product advanced 0.4 percent from the
previous three months, when it grew 1.2 percent, according to
the median of 21  estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Bureau of Statistics releases the report tomorrow at 11:30 a.m.
in Sydney, six days before the central bank holds its final
policy meeting of the year.  The report may show effects from Reserve Bank of Australia
rate increases aimed at cooling inflation sparked by a mining-
industry expansion that Governor  Glenn Stevens  yesterday said
will extend “over a longish horizon.” Tighter monetary policy,
less housing aid and a 7.2 percent gain in the local dollar this
year have weakened consumer demand and slowed sales abroad.  “Australia hit a soft patch in the third quarter” as the
“drivers of growth transition from the public to the private
sector against a backdrop of rising interest rates,” said  Katie Dean , head of Australian macroeconomics at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group in Melbourne.  Compared with a year earlier, Australia’s economy probably
expanded 3.4 percent in the third quarter, after gaining 3.3
percent from a year earlier in the previous period, the  survey 
of economists showed.  Dollar’s Advance  The nation’s employers  added 106,200 jobs  from July through
September, the biggest increase in four years. That helped
strengthen the local currency 15 percent against the U.S. dollar
in the third quarter, the second-biggest quarterly jump in four
decades, according to Bloomberg data.  A stronger currency weighs on export sales, which account
for about one-fifth of the country’s GDP.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., Australia’s third-biggest
producer of iron ore, this month approved an $8.4 billion
expansion in Western Australia’s Pilbara region to almost triple
output as demand from steelmakers gains.  It joins Rio Tinto Group, Vale SA and BHP Billiton Ltd. in
announcing expansions as prices increase. Producers are seeking
to meet demand from steel mills in China, where consumption of
the alloy is forecast by Rio Tinto to double by 2020 from 2008
levels.  ‘Wary of Overheating’  “On all the indications available, we are living through an
event that occurs maybe once or twice in a century,” Stevens
said in an address to a Committee for Economic Development of
Australia event in Melbourne yesterday. “We obviously have to
be wary of overheating.”  Citing expectations for a “large expansionary shock” from
trade, the RBA on Nov. 2 ended a five-month pause in raising
interest rates to contain expected faster inflation in 2011. It
was the seventh increase in 14 months and the most aggressive
round of tightening by a Group of 20 nation.  In a statement after the decision, Stevens said the economy
had “relatively modest amounts of spare capacity.”  That outlook is shared by the International Monetary Fund,
which predicts Australia’s economy will accelerate 3.5 percent
next year on China’s demand for raw materials and energy.  Home Building  Australian home-building approvals snapped a six-month
decline in October, and the nation’s current-account deficit
widened in the third quarter, reports released today in Sydney
showed.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments surged 9.3 percent from September, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. That exceeded the median
forecast for a 1.4 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 20
economists.     The Australian dollar initially rose after the
building-approvals report, before trading at 96.23 U.S. cents at
4:30 p.m. in Sydney, down from 96.31 cents late yesterday.  A separate report showed the shortfall on goods, services
and investment increased to A$7.83 billion ($7.55 billion) from
a revised A$5.41 billion in the second quarter as the
strengthening currency lowered exports.  Net exports subtracted 0.4 percentage point from growth in
the third quarter, the current-account report showed.  The RBA said in a release today that loans provided by
Australian banks and finance companies rose 0.1 percent in
October from the previous month. Lending to companies fell 0.8
percent from September and 3.2 percent from a year earlier, the
central bank said.  Weaker Profits  A report published yesterday showed business profits fell
1.5 percent last quarter, as weaker earnings at financial and
construction companies led to the first quarterly decline in
more than a year. A Nov. 10 report showed consumer confidence
fell to a five-month low.  Australian business confidence fell for a second month in
October as conditions deteriorated to the weakest in more than a
year on declining profitability for retail and construction
companies, according to a private monthly survey released Nov. 9.  “Public sector investment also likely fell in the quarter
as the school building program has peaked out,” said  Paul Brennan , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.  Construction companies benefited from more than A$20
billion in government spending on roads, railways and schools,
started last year to help buttress the economy against weaker
global growth.  In testimony last week to lawmakers in Canberra, Stevens
reiterated the central bank’s outlook for growth of about 3.5
percent in 2011 and 2012. He added that “it would take only
pretty moderate growth in the second half of the year to achieve
that forecast for 2010.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  