-- Lawmakers Press White House to Include GE Engine for F-35 in Stopgap Bill
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-29T19:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/lawmakers-press-white-house-to-include-ge-engine-in-stopgap-bill.html
A bi-partisan group of U.S.
lawmakers fighting to include General Electric Co.’s Joint
Strike Fighter engine in a stopgap spending bill has extended
its lobbying to address the White House.  In a letter to Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and White
House budget director  Jacob Lew  today, the lawmakers said the
money for the alternative JSF engine should be part of a so-
called continuing resolution that keeps most government programs
at current spending levels. Earlier this month, the group urged
Norm Dicks, the outgoing chairman of the House defense
appropriations committee, to support their proposal.  Gates opposes money for the GE engine as unnecessary and a
waste of money.  United Technologies Corp .’s Pratt & Whitney unit
makes the primary JSF engine, and Gates has said repeatedly he
will urge President  Barack Obama  to veto a bill funding the GE
version.  “Congress has funded the engine program for 14 consecutive
years, including $430 million provided for continued
development” in fiscal 2010, the lawmakers wrote Gates. The
full House voted May 27 to include another $485 million in the
pending fiscal 2011 budget.  “Until Congress finalizes action on the budget request,
the committee would expect the Department to respect the
constitutional authority vested in Congress and take the action
required to provide the necessary funding,” they wrote.  The letters to Gates and Lew follow a Nov. 19 letter from
the lawmakers to Dicks, a Washington Democrat.  Republican Majority  The signers include  Howard McKeon , a California Republican
in line to lead the House Armed Services Committee when the
112th Congress convenes in January. Republicans will have a
majority in the House.  McKeon was joined by senior committee Republicans  Roscoe Bartlett  of Maryland and  Todd Akin  of Missouri and outgoing
Chairman  Ike Skelton , a Missouri Democrat who was defeated on
Nov. 2.  The JSF is being purchased by the Air Force, Navy and
Marines to replace different types of fighter and strike
aircraft.  Lockheed Martin Corp . is tailoring the plane to meet
each service’s needs.  Congress approved stopgap legislation Sept. 30, when fiscal
2010 ended, to keep the government from shutting down as
lawmakers headed home to campaign for the Nov. 2 midterm
elections. That measure didn’t contain the $485 million to
continue engine development. The bill expires Dec. 3 and must be
renewed.  It isn’t clear how a loss of engine funds would affect the
GE program, said  Rick Kennedy , a spokesman for the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company. The project has about 2,400 employees
in the U.S. GE and its congressional allies say having a second
engine is pivotal for ensuring the JSF’s readiness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  