-- AXA Sues ING, Claims Deception in $1.5 Billion Purchase of Mexico Business
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-11-29T21:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/axa-sues-ing-in-new-york-over-1-5-billion-mexican-insurance-company-sale.html
A unit of French insurer  Axa SA  sued
an  ING Groep NV  subsidiary over alleged misrepresentations in
ING’s $1.5 billion sale of a Mexican insurance company to Axa.  Axa Mediterranean Holding  discovered after the 2008 deal
closed that ING Insurance International had made false
representations and warranties about the financial statements
and condition of the Mexican company and its subsidiaries,
according to the complaint in New York state Supreme Court. Axa
said it has suffered “tens (if not hundreds) of millions of
dollars in damages.”  The suit focuses on a bond company, ING Fianzas SA, that
was included in the sale. That company, renamed Axa Fianzas SA,
was a unit of the Mexican insurance company, Seguros ING SA de
CV, acquired by Axa.  “ING falsely represented and warranted that the bond
company had sufficient collateral and/or reserves (as required
under Mexican law) for the bonds it had issued,” Axa said in
the complaint filed Nov. 26. “For many of the relevant bonds,
collateral was either completely non-existent or otherwise
insufficient.”  From the July 2008  acquisition  of the bond company until
May 2010, when Axa sold it to a third party, Axa paid millions
of dollars on bonds that it couldn’t recover because the bond
company lacked the collateral or reserves that  ING  had said it
had, according to the complaint. As of Sept. 30, 2007, the bond
company had $2.2 million in collateral to cover $65.4 million
owed on tax obligation bonds, Axa said in the complaint.  Overpayment  Axa also overpaid ING for the bond company, according to
the complaint. Axa said that ING gave it a third-party valuation
in 2007 that the company was worth $118 million to $162 million.
Eighteen months later, Axa agreed to sell the company to an
affiliate of Afianzadora Sofimex SA, another Mexican bond
company, for $2.74 million.  Raymond Vermeulen , a spokesman for Amsterdam-based  ING
Groep , said in a phone interview that the company’s policy was
not to comment “on legal matters like this.”  Axa also alleges in its complaint that Seguros ING had
inadequate reserves for potential losses in lawsuits filed by
policyholders over denied coverage.  The case is Axa Mediterranean Holdings SA v ING Insurance
International BV, 652110/2010, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 