-- Bad Sex in Fiction Award Goes to Somerville, Sparing Franzen
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y   a n d   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2010-11-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/bad-sex-in-fiction-award-goes-to-somerville-franzen-escapes-u-k-dishonor.html
Rowan Somerville won the  Bad Sex in
Fiction Award , the U.K.’s “most dreaded literary prize,” for a
scene in which a nipple is likened to the upturned “nose of the
loveliest nocturnal animal, sniffing in the night.”  The passage, from Somerville’s novel “The Shape of Her,”
defeated steamy encounters in novels by Jonathan Franzen and
 Alastair Campbell ,  Tony Blair’s  former spokesman.  Film director  Michael Winner  presented the award to
Somerville during a ceremony last night at the  Naval & Military
Club  on St. James’s Square, London, saying that he has avoided
sex in his own books because “as we all know, sex starts with a
joke and ends in tragedy.”  Somerville accepted the award with grace, saying “There is
nothing more English than bad sex, so on behalf of the entire
nation I would like to thank you.”  Previously won by  Tom Wolfe ,  Norman Mailer  and  Jonathan Littell , the Bad Sex in Fiction contest seeks to dishonor the
author of the year’s “most embarrassing passages of sexual
description in a literary novel.”  The decision to shame Somerville was heavily influenced by
one sentence that compared a coupling to what a lepidopterist
does with “a tough-skinned insect,” the judges, from Britain’s
 Literary Review , said in an e-mailed statement. The verdict was
also affected by Campbell’s “public enthusiasm for winning,”
which would have rendered the purpose of the prize ineffective,
they said.  ‘Crude, Tasteless’  The late  Literary Review  editor Auberon Waugh inaugurated
the prize in 1993 “to draw attention to the crude, tasteless,
often perfunctory use of redundant passages of sexual
description in the modern novel, and to discourage it.”  Waugh’s son Alexander mentioned at the ceremony that the
10th anniversary of his father’s death is coming up. “You will
keep going on with Bad Sex, won’t you,” Alexander Waugh said
his father asked on his deathbed.  Pornographic or expressly erotic works are excluded from
the contest. Yet the Literary Review judges always find plenty
to choose from.  Franzen made this year’s shortlist for a sequence of
encounters in “Freedom” that commence with phone sex. Campbell
was cited for a passage in “Maya” in which a dizzy first-
person narrator tears open his beloved’s green silk dress. Adam
Ross was singled out for a scene in “Mr. Peanut” where a lover
jumps “out of his pajama pants so acrobatically it was like a
stunt from  Cirque du Soleil .”  The other finalists were Annabel Lyon for “The Golden
Mean”; Neel Mukherjee for “A Life Apart”; Craig Raine for
“Heartbreak”; and Christos Tsiolkas for “The Slap.”  To contact the reporter on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 