-- Bank of America Favorable Review of Merrill Deal Tied to TARP, Report Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-11-30T02:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/bank-of-america-favorable-review-of-merrill-deal-tied-to-tarp-report-says.html
Bank of America Corp.  obtained
“favorable” terms to resolve disclosure violations related to
its purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co. because the bank had
received billions of dollars of bailout funds, a report said.  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Inspector General
 H. David Kotz , in a report to Congress today, said the agency
waived a penalty because the bank had received taxpayer funds
and the action could have hurt markets. The waiver was part of a
$33 million settlement a federal judge rejected in September
2009 before approving a $150 million accord that didn’t include
a waiver.  Kotz began his investigation last year at the request of
U.S. Representative  Elijah Cummings . The Democrat from Maryland
had questioned whether officials discussed the fact that
taxpayers would ultimately pay any fine imposed on banks that
received bailout funds. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to
comment.  Kotz, who reviewed more than 500,000 e-mails and took
testimony from about 20 SEC employees, said that while the deal
was favorable to the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, he
didn’t find evidence of “improper conflicts of interest,”
according to the report.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, repaid
$45 billion in bailout funds to the Troubled Asset Relief
Program in December 2009.  The SEC accused Bank of America in August 2009 of failing
to disclose to investors it had agreed to let Merrill Lynch pay
as much as $5.8 billion in employee bonuses and incentives.  Earlier Settlement  U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  called the original
settlement offer a “contrivance” between the SEC and Bank of
America and questioned why bank executives or their lawyers
weren’t sued. He later approved the $150 million accord after
the SEC expanded the claims, saying the bank had also failed to
disclose Merrill’s expected losses.  Kotz said SEC investigators initially doubted the viability
of suing the bank for failing to disclose the losses.
Investigators “felt pressure” to bring a case promptly against
Bank of America because of its “high-profile nature,” he said.  Bank of America spokesman  Scott Silvestri  declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 