-- Hotels Attract JPMorgan as Loan Recoveries Beat Other Properties
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/banks-increase-hotel-financing-as-loan-recovery-beats-all-u-s-properties.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Wells Fargo
& Co.  are seeking to increase financing for hotels as lenders
recover more money from loans backed by lodging than from debt
secured by other types of commercial real estate.  Lenders’ losses on non-performing hotel loans were about 53
percent this year through September, compared with 63 percent
for retail property loans, 62 percent for industrial, 61 percent
for multifamily and 57 percent for office, according to data
from Trepp LLC, a New York-based mortgage-information provider.
The figures exclude loans with losses of 2 percent or less.  A recovery in the lodging industry helped delinquencies on
U.S. commercial mortgage-backed securities drop for the first
time in almost three years last month, Fitch Ratings said in a
Nov. 5 note. The revival is lifting hotel property values and
enticing lenders to rework existing loans and seek out new ones.  “Right now is a particularly attractive time to be lending
to the hotel sector,” Christopher Jordan, head of hospitality
banking at San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo , said in a telephone
interview. “We prefer lending at the trough to lending at the
top. Now you are at the front end of the upswing.”  The Hilton Times Square in New York City is among
properties benefiting from the renewed interest in hotel
lending, completing a $92.5 million, 10-year loan this month.
The senior loan, which carries a fixed interest rate of less
than 5 percent, was secured through Bank of America Merrill
Lynch and replaced financing set to mature in December, real
estate services provider  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  said Nov. 11.  ‘Actively Seeking’ Loans  “It’s a true indication that lenders are actively seeking
to place debt on high-quality, well-located hotels,” Jeffrey
Davis, a New York-based executive vice president at  Jones Lang
LaSalle Hotels , based in London, said in a statement.  Hotel occupancies in the top 25 U.S. markets climbed to 65
percent this year through September from 61 percent in the same
period in 2009, said  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of
Hendersonville, Tennessee. Revenue per available room rose 6.3
percent to $75.79.  “We are definitely making loans on hotels,” said Jon
Strain, head of capital markets for JPMorgan’s commercial real
estate group. Revenue and occupancy “trends have been very
strong across the U.S.,” he said.  The New York-based bank doesn’t break out its hotel
lending. It had about $8.4 billion in loans tied to lodging,
real estate investment trusts, homebuilders and other properties
as of Sept. 30, according to the bank’s third-quarter filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. That compares with
$11.2 billion at the end of last year.  Wells Loans Rise  Wells Fargo had about $6.5 billion of mortgages or
construction loans tied to hotels and motels outstanding at the
end of September, according to its quarterly filing. That’s up
from $6.4 billion a year earlier. The lender’s entire commercial
real estate portfolio was $126.7 billion, or about 17 percent of
total loans, as of Sept. 30.  CMBS delinquencies dropped to 7.78 percent at the end of
October, down 88 basis points from the previous month, according
to Fitch. Hotel delinquencies fell to about 14 percent from 21
percent in September, the largest percentage-point decline ever
recorded by Fitch for any property type.  The resolution of seven loans greater than $100 million
contributed to the decline, Fitch said. That included a $4.1
billion Extended Stay Inc. loan backed by a portfolio of 682
hotel properties. Extended Stay last year filed the largest
bankruptcy by a U.S. hotel owner.  ‘Very Attractive Investment’  “Hotels represent a very attractive investment opportunity
because they’ve seen such a sharp decline,”  Jonathan Gray ,
senior managing director and co-head of real estate at
 Blackstone Group LP , said during a conference in New York on
Nov. 18. “We’ve been deploying a lot of capital in this area.”  Gray has invested $4 billion in distressed deals for
Blackstone in the past year, including stakes in Extended Stay,
mall owner  General Growth Properties Inc.  and Sunwest Management
Inc., an assisted-living provider.  Rising prices for hotels and money raised in share sales by
real estate investment trusts have boosted lender confidence in
the lodging industry, said Jordan of Wells Fargo.  “REITs and other hotel buyers have been paying tomorrow’s
prices today, particularly in some cities, like New York and
Washington, D.C., so they don’t miss out on the opportunity to
own those assets,” he said. “These transactions have been a
window into the value of hotel properties and have injected
confidence into the system.”  Eleven Hotels Trade  This year through October, 11 hotels have traded for more
than $100 million each, up from three a year earlier, according
to  Arthur Adler , managing director and chief executive officer
for the Americas at Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels.  Low interest rates also have helped keep loan losses lower
on lodging because hotels, more so than other commercial
properties, tend to be financed with floating-rate debt,
according to JPMorgan’s Strain.  The highest loan loss on an individual property in the
lodging sector this year through September was 86 percent. That
compares to an individual loan loss of 112 percent in the
multifamily sector, 110 percent in retail and 99 percent in
industrial, according to Trepp data.  Losses can total more than 100 percent because such costs
as legal expenses, appraisals, tenant improvements and court-
filing fees often aren’t repaid.  Floating Rates  “Part of the reason for lower loan losses is that the
majority of hotel financing was done with floating rates,” said
Strain of JPMorgan. “With the Fed injecting liquidity into the
market, keeping interest rates low, a lot of the hotels are
performing despite tremendous stress on them. Their interest
debt service is low relative to the office and industrial
sector.”  Losses on financing backed by midscale hotels or properties
in suburban and rural markets are greater than those secured by
hotels in metropolitan areas, said Paul Mancuso, vice president
at Trepp.  “Loans backed by hotels in prime geographic locations are
being modified more easily,” he said. “Some loans backed by
midscale properties or hotels in suburban locations and tertiary
and secondary markets, those loans are the ones that still have
trouble.”  Morgans Hotel Group Co.  in October won extensions for loans
backed by its Hudson New York hotel in Manhattan and the
Mondrian Los Angeles after paying down a portion of the money
owed on the two properties. The company was able to negotiate a
lower interest rate.  Boost Rents Quickly  Hotels have another advantage that other types of
commercial real estate lack, said Morgans President Marc Gordon.
They can boost rental rates quickly to take advantage of
economic growth, while tenants at offices and retail properties
tend to sign multiyear leases.  “Almost the entire tenant base of a hotel checks out every
morning, and the operator effectively re-leases the building the
next day,” he said. “With other commercial real estate, the
operator usually has multiyear-term leases. As a lender, you
don’t really know where rent rates will reset. At a hotel, a
lender can see exactly how the hotel does operationally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  