-- Barclays Misled on CDO Default Risk, San Marino Lender Says
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-11-29T16:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/barclays-misled-on-cdo-default-risk-san-marino-lender-tells-london-judge.html
Barclays Plc deliberately designed
structured notes that would have a much higher risk of default
than their triple-A rating suggested, lawyers for a San Marino
bank told a London judge today.  Cassa di Risparmio della Repubblica di San Marino SpA , or
CRSM, is suing Barclays in London for 92 million euros ($120.5
million,) alleging fraudulent misrepresentation over the sale of
collateralized debt obligations. Barclays denies the
allegations.  The CDO had been rated AAA, CRSM lawyer George Leggatt told
the court today, suggesting that the risk of a default on the
bonds and causing CRSM to lose money was “a fraction of 1
percent.” The real probability of default was “of a completely
different order -- 25 percent or more,” he said.  Barclays and lenders in the region have clashed before over
CDO transactions. The London-based bank and Banca Popolare di
Intra Scrl in February settled a claim over derivatives Barclays
sold the Italian regional lender in 2000. Barclays had been
accused of selling a CDO that was likely to default. Neither
party admitted liability in their settlement.  CRSM approached Barclays in 2003 for funding for its units,
the San Marino-based bank said in court documents. Barclays
loaned 700 million euros on condition that CRSM would
buy 450 million euros of structured notes including “highly
complex and opaque” CDO squared instruments, CRSM said in court
papers.  ‘Crossed the Line’  While Barclays did nothing wrong by creating the product,
selling it based on a credit rating it knew didn’t properly
reflect the risk of the investment “crossed the line into
misrepresentation and potentially deceit,” Leggatt said.  Barclays lawyer  Andrew Baker  said that neither the credit
rating nor the 25 percent default risk mentioned by the San
Marino bank reflected what Barclays thought “would actually
happen to investors’ money.” Comparing the two “is to compare
the incomparable.”  CRSM’s case is “without merit,” Barclays said in a
separate e-mailed statement. “There is no factual basis for any
of the claims and the fraud allegations against Barclays and its
employees are strenuously denied,” the bank said.  CDOs are pools of assets such as mortgage bonds packaged
into new securities. Interest payments on the underlying bonds
or loans are used to pay investors.  Fitch Ratings on Nov. 8 cut CRSM two notches to “BB,” or
junk, from investment grade with a negative outlook, after
deposits fell, forcing the bank to review its strategy.  The case is Cassa di Risparmio della Repubblica di San
Marino SpA v. Barclays Bank Plc, Case No: 08-757, High Court of
Justice, Queen’s Bench Division. The case is scheduled to last
for the rest of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Elisa Martinuzzi  at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net .
BARC LN <Equity>
 Z IM <EQUITY> 