-- Barcelona Routs Archrival Real Madrid 5-0 to Lead Spanish League Standings
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-11-29T23:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/barcelona-beats-real-madrid-5-0-to-lead-in-spain.html
Barcelona beat Real Madrid 5-0 to
replace its archrival atop the Spanish league and hand  Jose Mourinho  the biggest defeat of his soccer coaching career.  David Villa  scored twice and the other goals came from  Xavi Hernandez , Pedro Rodriguez and Jeffren Suarez at Barcelona’s
Camp Nou stadium last night. Real Madrid had  Sergio Ramos  red-
carded in stoppage time at the end of the game.  Barcelona’s biggest home win against Real Madrid in 16
years brought to an end the visitor’s 19-game unbeaten run under
Mourinho this season. It was Barcelona’s fifth straight win in
the so-called ‘El Clasico’ between Spain’s biggest teams and
keeps intact  Josep Guardiola ’s unbeaten record in the fixture as
a coach.  “I didn’t expect a result like this,” Guardiola said.
“The way we played means more to me than the result.”  Barcelona has 34 points after 13 of 38 games, two points
more than Madrid. Villarreal is five points further back in
third place.  Xavi made it 1-0 after 10 minutes when  Andres Iniesta ’s
deflected cross dropped to him in the goalmouth. Pedro added the
second goal from close range in the 18th minute when Madrid
goalkeeper  Iker Casillas  spilled Villa’s low cross on a rain-
soaked field.  Madrid’s  Cristiano Ronaldo  got a yellow card after jostling
with Barcelona players after 30 minutes. The fracas broke out on
the touchline after Ronaldo pushed Guardiola for dropping the
ball rather than handing it to him.  Villa Double  Villa got Barcelona’s third goal after 55 minutes when he
collected  Lionel Messi ’s pass and fired in. Three minutes later,
Villa controlled a 30-yard (27 meter) pass by Messi and slipped
the ball underneath Casillas to make it 4-0.  Jeffren, a substitute, scooped in a cross from  Bojan Krkic 
in the final minute to complete the scoring before Ramos was
red-carded for pushing  Carles Puyol  in the face.  “I’ve never lost 5-0 before,” Mourinho told a televised
news conference. “It was a very deserved win and deserved loss
so it’s easy to digest. It’s a punishment for a team that played
very badly.”  Barcelona won the past two Spanish league titles and took
Europe’s Champions League in 2006 and 2009 with several players
that graduated from its youth team.  Real hasn’t won the Champions League since 2002 and has
employed 10 coaches and spent almost $1 billion on player
acquisitions since then. Mourinho took over after leading Inter
Milan to the Champions League as part of an unprecedented treble
of trophies last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net . 