-- Bartz's Two-Year Turnaround Efforts at Yahoo Squeezed by Google, Facebook
-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-11-29T21:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/bartz-s-two-year-turnaround-efforts-at-yahoo-squeezed-by-google-facebook.html
Carol Bartz  arrived at  Yahoo! Inc. 
in January 2009 with a reputation for tough talk and
turnarounds, having revived design software maker Autodesk Inc.
The two California companies are 65 miles apart and worlds apart
culturally -- a gap she has been unable to bridge.  The skills required to serve a customer base of architects
and car designers haven’t translated to fickle online users, who
jump from Google to Facebook to Twitter -- and at a slower rate
to Yahoo. Google Inc. was the most visited site among U.S. users
in  October , and Facebook Inc. surpassed Yahoo among worldwide
users, according to researcher ComScore Inc.  “I’m not sure what Yahoo’s trying to do anymore,”  Michael Leo , chief executive officer of Operative Inc., a New York
online advertising agency, said in a telephone interview.
“Advertisers don’t know; their own employees don’t seem to
know; they’re lacking clarity of purpose.”  Bartz, 62, raised by her grandmother on a farm in
Wisconsin, has cut costs, pared extraneous products and focused
Yahoo on news, sports and other content. She’s had less success
reviving growth and finding ways to keep pace with newer,
faster-growing Web powers. Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo’s
 third-quarter  revenue of $1.12 billion, excluding money passed
on to partner sites, fell short of the $1.13 billion average of
analysts’  estimates , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bartz declined to be interviewed for this story.  Groupon, Foursquare  Yahoo had approached Groupon Inc., the Chicago-based coupon
site, and didn’t make a deal to acquire the company, according
to two people close to those discussions. Now Groupon is in
talks with Google, the people said. Another startup, New York
mobile-location company Foursquare Labs Inc., raised $20 million
from investors led by venture firm Andreessen Horowitz in June,
after other media outlets reported that it turned down an offer
from Yahoo.  Yahoo declined to comment on its acquisition strategy.  With  Yahoo stock  trading at less than half the $33-a-share
bid it rejected from Microsoft Corp. in 2008, private-equity
firms are eyeing Yahoo as a buyout candidate. Speculation that
former News Corp. CEO  Peter Chernin  may join bid groups pushed
Yahoo’s stock up 6.3 percent to $17.17 in intraday trading Nov.
18. A person close to Chernin said in a phone interview that
Yahoo is among the companies the media executive has discussed
with private-equity groups.  Yahoo rose 16 cents to $16.38 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have lost 2.4 percent
this year.  ‘Soul’ Searching  Bartz, who was CEO at Autodesk in San Rafael, California,
for 14 years and replaced Yahoo’s co-founder  Jerry Yang  in the
aftermath of Microsoft’s failed bid for the company, has two
years left on her  contract , according to a filing.  Directors 
stand behind her, said a person familiar with the board’s
thinking.  Bartz’s chief leadership initiative is to define Yahoo’s
future course, said  Paul Saffo , a managing director at Discern
Analytics, an investment adviser in San Francisco.  “Yahoo is a big sprawling company with a collection of
very different products,” Saffo said. “The challenge is to
identify its soul. That’s a really different kind of job than
Bartz had at Autodesk, which is a company with a very clear
market and clear product.”  Bartz was asked at a technology conference in San Francisco
earlier this month, “What is Yahoo?” She responded, “Content,
Communications, Media, Technology, Innovation.”  “Yahoo has always stood for those words,” Bartz said. “I
think it went off track a little bit when people thought it was
a search company.”  Google, Facebook Threats  Internet users, especially those in their teens and 20s --
among the most prolific users of the Web -- go online to find
their friends, watch videos, shop or do other tasks. That’s why
Google and Facebook are positioned to grow at a faster pace than
the less-targeted Yahoo, according to  Rob Norman , CEO of GroupM
North America, a New York-based media buying unit of  WPP Plc ,
the world’s largest advertising company.  “Google on the video side and Facebook on the social-media
side have grabbed stronger positions in areas of growth than
Yahoo has,” Norman said in a telephone interview. “Yahoo is
still very big, they’re still very important but the competitive
set has evolved.”  Facebook, based in Palo Alto, California, took the largest
share of the U.S. online display-advertising market in December,
based on the number of ad views, according to Reston, Virginia-
based  ComScore . By September, Facebook had increased its share
to 24 percent, compared with Yahoo’s 11 percent.  Mobile Market  Google, based in Mountain View, California, had a more than
3-to-1 lead on Yahoo in the search market in July 2009 when
Bartz announced a 10-year agreement with Microsoft. that has the
software company’s Bing service powering Yahoo search.  Last month, Microsoft and Yahoo handled a combined 28
percent of  search queries , up from 27.9 percent in September,
according to ComScore. Google’s market share grew to 66.3
percent from 66.1 percent.  Yahoo’s competitors also have positioned themselves in
smartphones, whose global sales grew 96 percent to  80.5 million 
units in the third quarter of 2010 from 41.1 million units a
year earlier, according to Gartner Inc., a research firm in
Stamford, Connecticut.  Unlike Yahoo, Google and  Apple Inc.  have operating-system
software that helps determine what tools users will use. Yahoo
doesn’t plan to build a mobile operating system, Bartz said at
an analyst meeting in May.  ‘It’s Y!ou’  An ad campaign, which used the tagline: “It’s Y!ou” and
cost $100 million over 2009 and 2010, didn’t keep people on the
site for longer time periods. Users in the U.S. spent 9.5
percent of their online time on Yahoo in September, compared
with 13.8 percent two years earlier, according to ComScore.  “The campaign didn’t do anything to define Yahoo and why
it’s relevant to the customer’s experience,” said  Josh
Feldmeth , CEO of the New York office of Interbrand Group, a
brand consulting unit of ad agency Omnicom Group Inc.  Bartz stands up to her critics. When she was questioned
about her progress at a conference hosted by the technology-news
website TechCrunch in New York in May 2010, she said CEO  Steve Jobs  took seven years to turn around Apple.  She’s been rebuilding her senior management team, after
the departures of many veteran executives, such as  Jimmy Pitaro ,
who left as vice president of media in September to become co-
president of interactive media at Walt Disney Co.  Executive Turnover  Of the 11 senior executives who spoke at Yahoo’s May 2009
analyst day, six remain.  Blake Irving , a 51-year-old former
Microsoft veteran, joined as Yahoo’s chief products officer in
May.  Ross Levinsohn , 47, a former president of New York-based
News Corp.’s Fox Interactive Media, became executive vice
president of the Americas region in October.  Bartz needs a bold acquisition to revitalize the company,
said  Maha Ibrahim , a general partner at venture firm Canaan
Partners in Menlo Park, California. Buying Groupon would have
enabled Yahoo to become a leader in a growing niche, she said.  “It would have said, ‘We want to dominate local shopping,
social shopping and that’s what we’re going to be great at,’”
Ibrahim said. “When Yahoo decides who they want to be, I think
they have the talent, the ability and the financials to make
that happen.”  John Chambers , CEO of Cisco Systems Inc. in San Jose,
California, on whose board Bartz sits, said she will prevail.  “Never bet against Carol Bartz,” Chambers said. “She is
good and she is tough. I think she’ll navigate through.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
 John Helyar  in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Hymowitz at   chymowitz@bloomberg.net  