-- Basel Said to Seek Liquidity Deal, Weigh Bond Losses
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-11-29T11:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/basel-regulators-said-to-seek-liquidity-agreement-weigh-bondholder-losses.html
Global banking regulators will seek
agreements on liquidity and the quality of capital to fill gaps
in an overhaul of rules endorsed by world leaders, according to
two people familiar with the discussions.  Regulators may fail to agree on all the details at a two-
day meeting of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
starting tomorrow, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. That’s because of
their potentially large effect on national banking industries,
one of the people said.  The Basel committee will also discuss how bondholders may
contribute to the costs of saving banks on the verge of collapse
and what should trigger such burden sharing, the people said.  The Group of 20 nations decided to bolster banks’ liquidity
and capital to prevent a rerun of the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression. An exodus of deposits from Irish
lenders caused a funding shortfall which led European
governments and the International Monetary Fund yesterday to
agree on an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package for the
country.  The G-20 this month endorsed rules, known as Basel III,
which will more than triple the highest-quality capital, such as
shareholders’ equity, that banks must hold to cushion against
losses. The leaders left it to regulators to complete the
details of the new rules. The G-20 has called on the committee
to agree them before the end of this year.  ‘Balanced Decisions’  The Basel committee should “come to balanced decisions”
on banks’ liquidity and capital that “do not risk hampering
their lending capacity,” the European Banking Federation said
in an e-mailed statement.  The Basel group is evaluating the merits of other measures
to protect lenders in times of stress. These include the use of
so-called contingent convertible bonds, which convert to equity
if certain triggers, such as preset capital levels, are
breached.  Regulators plan to complete this work by mid-2011, the
committee said in a  statement  last month.  A Swiss government-appointed panel recommended last month
that Zurich-based UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG should hold
as much as 9 percent of their risk-weighted capital in these so-
called CoCo bonds by 2019.  The Basel committee suggested in  August  that regulators
should have the option of writing off the subordinated debt and
preferential shares of a bank that is about to fail, or of
converting such instruments into common shares.  The Basel meeting will also discuss criteria to identify
banks that are deemed to be too big to fail. Regulators are
aiming to complete work on “provisional” criteria to assess
“the systemic importance of financial institutions at the
global level,” by the end of this year, the committee said last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 