-- Basilea Wins $130 Million From J&J in Dispute Over Ceftobiprole Antibiotic
-- B y   C a r e y   S a r g e n t
-- 2010-11-29T16:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/basilea-shares-rise-7-percent-after-being-awarded-130-million.html
Basilea Pharmaceutica AG  won a $130
million arbitration award from  Johnson & Johnson  in a dispute
over the antibiotic ceftobiprole.  An arbitration panel found J&J breached the agreement under
which it licensed ceftobiprole from Basilea, the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.
J&J failed to properly oversee clinical trials, leading
regulators to reject the drug, Basilea has said.  “Basilea in essence gets awarded the milestone payments
J&J would have owed had the drug been approved,”  Andrew Weiss ,
an analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich, said in a note to
investors. “The announcement of the award is positive news and
ahead of our expectations.”  Basilea  rose  95 centimes, or 1.4 percent, to 68.75 Swiss
francs at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Zurich, giving the
company a market value of 659 million francs ($658 million.) The
stock has risen 4.6 percent this year, compared with a 5.7
percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  The award by the Netherlands Arbitration Institute tribunal
is “immediately enforceable,” the Swiss company said.  An advisory panel of the  European Medicines Agency  in
February said ceftobiprole shouldn’t be approved because trials
hadn’t followed “good clinical practice” at some sites. U.S.
health regulators last December similarly rejected the drug
because trial data were “unreliable.”  Transition Period  The companies ended their partnership in February, with a
one-year transition period.  Basilea  said today it’s “focusing
on completing the return of ceftobiprole to Basilea at the
latest by February 2011 so that we can move forward with its
future development.”  Basilea is open all avenues for the development of
ceftobiprole, including finding a new partner,  Anthony Man ,
Basilea’s chief executive officer, said on a conference call
with analysts.  The arbitration panel, while finding J&J in breach of the
agreement, rejected several of Basilea’s “claims and
allegations,” New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J said in an e-
mailed statement. J&J said it couldn’t disclose further details
because of confidentiality restrictions.  The company hasn’t decided whether to appeal, though the
grounds for appeal are narrow and limited to procedural issues,
said a spokeswoman, Karen Manson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carey Sargent  in Zurich at 
 csargent3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  