-- Billionaire Frank Lowy Says Australia May Regain Vote for 2022 World Cup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-30T01:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/billionaire-frank-lowy-says-australia-may-regain-vote-for-2022-world-cup.html
Australia’s richest man,  Frank Lowy ,
is lobbying to convince soccer’s governing body that his adopted
homeland deserves the 2022 World Cup, and says he thinks the bid
will regain a vote when a suspended voter is replaced.  Australia lost its only guaranteed supporter when Reynald
Temarii, the head of the Oceania Football Confederation, an
umbrella body that Australia belonged to before switching to
play under Asia’s governing body in 2006, was suspended on Nov.
17 following FIFA’s investigation into a vote-selling claim.  Lowy said there was a possibility Oceania will get its vote
back in time for the ballot. That requires Temarii to waive his
right to appeal the suspension, and FIFA hasn’t received any
notification from the official. A majority vote is required to
award the bid, and if that isn’t immediately attained, the
lowest-scoring bids are eliminated in further voting rounds.  “We have communication with him and I’m reasonably
satisfied that will happen,” Lowy said. “One extra vote among
22 is a big difference in the campaign.”  Lowy, 80, chairman of Westfield Group, the world’s largest
owner of shopping centers, is head of Australia’s soccer
federation and has been leading efforts to woo the men who’ll
vote in Dec. 2’s secret ballot. First-time bidder Australia is
up against Qatar, the U.S., Japan and Korea in a contest that
has come under the spotlight following the suspension of two
voters after newspaper allegations of bribery and unconfirmed
claims of collusion among bidding nations.  Complicated  England’s chief executive officer,  Andy Anson , yesterday
said it was “inevitable” some bidders for the two tournaments
would try and trade votes. Lowy said the process, which started
two years ago, is “very complicated.”  “There are very few rules,” he said. “It can be
interpreted in too many different ways. Those that want to talk
to others believe they can; those who don’t want to believe they
shouldn’t so it’s not that black and white.”  All of Australia’s rivals have a representative among the
22 remaining voters and the U.S. can count on three votes from
its regional governing body. That gives the Americans an
advantage, Lowy said.  Still, both bids are trailing Qatar, according to U.K.
bookmaker William Hill which makes the Gulf state its 9-4
favorite ahead of Australia at 3-1, the U.S. 9-2, Japan 33-1 and
South Korea 40-1.  Lowy says convincing soccer’s governing body to choose
Australia as Cup host would be a “big, big thank you” for
providing the sanctuary that allowed him to amass his fortune.
His net worth is listed at $5.04 billion by Australia’s Business
Review Weekly.  Home Support  Lowy arrived in Australia with little money and no job 58
years ago. Born in the Czech Republic, the businessman lost his
father in the Holocaust and moved to Hungary and Israel before
traveling to the other side of the world.  “I found Australia very warm, very acknowledging, very
accepting -- I know personally what it is,” said Lowy, in an
interview in Zurich, where FIFA’s  executive members  decide in
two days the hosts of the 2018 and 2022 World Cups.
“Australia’s been very good for me and I’ll be able to feel
I’ve done something great for Australia.”  Australia has pledged to spend $2.29 billion on stadiums
and a further $535 million on hosting the tournament and a
warmup event a year earlier. Lowy said FIFA has a ‘moral’ duty
to take the World Cup to his country because it’s the only
continent not to have hosted an event that, like Lowy, would be
92 in 2022.  Revenue Issues  FIFA, a not-for-profit organization, which makes the
majority of its income from the quadrennial tournament, said
taking the World Cup to the southern hemisphere country risked
“a reduction in TV income and, as a result, commercial revenue
from Europe and the Americas. The income from Asia/Oceania would
need to be increased substantially to offset the likelihood of
loss of revenue in Europe.”  A report produced by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP on behalf
of Australia’s bid said Asia’s gross domestic product, or GDP,
will double between 2005 and 2014.  “The growth between now and 2022 is huge,” Lowy said.
“The world is changing rapidly and substantially and with great
momentum the economic power of the world will be in our
region.”  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said earlier this month he
wasn’t sure how much the executive body will rely on the
technical analysis of the best bids.  Marios Lefkaritis , a voter
from Cyprus, said “football politics” would have a big impact
on where his vote goes.  One of the most powerful supporters may turn out to be
Blatter, Lowy said.  “He’s the president and I really can’t speak for him but I
know his sympathies and many other people’s. They like
Australia,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  