-- Shirakawa Says Strong Yen Has Benefits and Drawbacks
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-11-29T07:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/boj-governor-shirakawa-says-stronger-yen-has-both-benefits-and-drawbacks.html
The  Bank of Japan ’s governor sent a
mixed message about the consequences of a stronger yen, saying
that while it hurts exporters in the short term it also benefits
the nation’s terms of trade in the long run.  “In the short run, the appreciation of the yen depresses
the revenue and profits of exporting firms,”  Masaaki Shirakawa 
said in a speech today in Nagoya, central Japan. “It should also
be noted that the appreciation of the yen, from a longer-term
perspective, has the positive effect of bringing about an
improvement of the terms of trade through a decline in import
prices.”  The yen has weakened 3.6 percent against the dollar since
the  Federal Reserve  on Nov. 3 said it plans to buy $600 billion
in Treasuries, reducing pressure on Japanese officials to guard
against a strong currency hurting exports. Japan intervened in
the foreign-exchange market in September and Shirakawa said the
BOJ is watching currencies “with great interest.”  Japanese businesses have been expressing more concern about
the yen’s rate against the South Korean won, Shirakawa said. The
currency of  South Korea , whose auto and electronics companies
compete with Japan’s in the global market, has weakened 8.9
percent against the yen this year.  Shirakawa reiterated that the central bank will take
“appropriate” policy action while watching developments in the
economy, whose recovery he said is pausing.  Effects to Intensify  Still, the economy will resume recovering after the
slowdown, and the effects of the BOJ’s easing measures will then
intensify, he said.  The Bank of Japan last month lowered the overnight call
rate target to between zero and 0.1 percent and unveiled a 5
trillion yen ($59 billion) fund to buy government and corporate
debt and other assets to increase liquidity in the market.  Expanding the fund is a “probable option” if the bank
needs to ease monetary policy further, in case the economy
worsens more than expected and the BOJ judges that doing so will
have more benefits than demerits, Shirakawa said.  The BOJ’s policy board members feel that the chance of the
Japan’s economy doing better than their forecasts is “almost
balanced” with the risk it will fall short of their expectations,
Shirakawa told a news conference later in the day.  Differences in Views  He said there are “subtle differences in the views” among
the nine board members. Seiji Nakamura, one of them, last week
said he sees downside risks to the economy exceeding upside
risks.  Japan’s economic growth is expected to slow in the final
months of this year as the end of government stimulus steps and
higher tobacco taxes weigh on consumer demand.  The expansion in gross domestic product may slow to an
annual 0.3 percent pace in October to December, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, after growing an annualized
3.9 percent in the third quarter.  Retail sales in October unexpectedly declined for the first
time this year, dropping 0.2 percent from a year earlier
compared with a 0.7 percent increase forecast by economists,
according to government figures released today.  Shirakawa also said that while Japanese bond yields are
climbing a bit as receding economic pessimism in the U.S. pushes
up yields there, interbank borrowing costs in Japan have
declined further and corporate debt spreads are narrowing.  The effects of the BOJ’s easing steps ought to be judged
based on overall moves in financial and credit markets rather
than government bond yield levels alone, he said. The yield on
two-year  government bonds  surged to 0.21 percent today, the
highest level since December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  