-- Debt Backed by Less Collateral as Spreads Jump: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-11-29T17:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/bond-buyers-demand-less-collateral-as-yield-spreads-widen-credit-markets.html
Unsecured bonds are grabbing a
bigger slice of global debt sales as central banks’ efforts to
boost growth spur investors to take on risk and demand less
collateral, leaving them with lower protection in a default.  Companies have sold $246.9 billion of unsecured high-yield
debt this year, making up 72.6 percent of all speculative-grade
issuance, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with $112.1 billion during the same period in 2009, or 61.5
percent of junk bond offerings.  The diminished security comes amid concern Europe’s debt
crisis may spread, slowing the global economy as nations enact
austerity programs. Policy makers in developed markets are
keeping interest rates at record lows, and the U.S. Federal
Reserve is also injecting $600 billion into the economy by
buying Treasuries.  “There’s so much cash chasing investment opportunities out
there that buyers are willing to sacrifice covenants and
security,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist and
economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.
“We’re trying to dodge these covenant-light and low-security
deals right now, even though they’re popular.”  General Electric Co., the world’s largest maker of power-
generating equipment, issued the biggest unsecured dollar bond
this half when it sold $2.15 billion of 1.875 percent, three-
year notes in September, Bloomberg data show.  Digicel Issue  Digicel Group Ltd., the Kingston, Jamaica-based mobile-
phone operator, became the lowest-rated company to sell similar
notes this year when it issued $775 million of 10.5 percent
bonds due April 2018. The securities, sold at par in March and
rated Caa1, the seventh-highest junk grade by Moody’s Investors
Service, last traded at 110 cents on the dollar to yield 8.634
percent, Hapoalim Securities USA Inc. prices show.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds worldwide instead of similar
maturity government debt rose last week as Europe’s sovereign
debt woes deepened and sales fell. Spreads widened 6 basis
points to 171 basis points, or 1.71 percentage points, the
highest since Oct. 6, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.  It is the biggest weekly increase since relative yields
rose 17 basis points in the period ended May 21. Spreads are up
7 basis points this month. Yields jumped to an average 3.7
percent from 3.67 percent.  Hewlett-Packard Bonds  Hewlett-Packard Co. , the world’s largest computer maker,
plans to sell debt for the second time in less than three months
as it repays short-term borrowings, according to a person
familiar with the transaction.  The benchmark offering of 5- and 10-year notes may be sold
as soon as today, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. Benchmark sales are typically at least
$500 million. Proceeds may be used for general corporate
purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper, the
person said.  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S.
climbed to the highest level in almost six weeks as optimism
withered that an aid package for Ireland will stem Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 2.9 basis points to a
mid-price of 98.5 basis points as of 11:48 a.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  “Any hope that the dotting of the Is and crossing of the
Ts for Ireland would calm nerves has been quickly dashed,”
 Peter Boockvar , a strategist with Miller Tabak & Co. in New
York, said in a note to clients. “Buying time with more debt
continues to be the chosen path.”  Ireland, Greece  Ireland, swamped by the bursting of a decade-long real-
estate bubble and unemployment approaching 14 percent, became
the second country after Greece to tap European aid. The Markit
index, which typically rises as investor deteriorates and falls
as it improves, is at the highest since Oct. 19, when it reached
100.125, Markit data show. It rose 5.8 basis points last week.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Global offerings of secured notes in dollars climbed to
$84.2 billion this year, almost double the $44.4 billion raised
the same period of 2009 and the most since Bloomberg began
collecting such data in 1999. The securities in some cases
entitle holders to a claim on assets as high as bank creditors
in the event of a default.  Lyondell Debt  Lyondell Chemical Co ., a Houston, Texas-based unit of
 LyondellBasell Industries NV , sold $2.25 billion of 8 percent
notes as its parent company emerged from bankruptcy, according
to Bloomberg data. The debt was secured by assets including
inventory and accounts receivable.  The notes last traded at 109 cents on the dollar to yield
6.369 percent, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices. The average yield for bonds in Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. High-Yield Master II Index is 7.885 percent.  “Companies are able to sell this type of debt to investors
more easily, however they’d prefer not to because it hamstrings
their flexibility,”  Eric Takaha , a director of corporate and
high-yield for Franklin Templeton’s fixed-income group, which
manages $234 billion in assets, said in a phone interview from
San Mateo, California. “The hope is it can be refinanced with
an unsecured bond down the road.”  Casino Bonds  MGM Resorts International  pledged a Las Vegas casino resort
and hotels as security when it sold $845 million of 9 percent
notes due March 2020 to repay some loans and extend the maturity
on others, while Toys R Us Inc. offered trademarks and
intellectual property when it sold $350 million of 7.375 percent
notes due 2016 in August. The toy store said it will use the
proceeds to pay back $981 million of loans due in 2012 and 2013.  “A year ago we were in the throes of our darkest hours and
being sued by our partners,” MGM Chief Executive Officer  James Murren  said at the time of the March sale. Investors who
“wouldn’t consider us a year ago” must have felt bonds secured
on the MGM Grand were “a pretty safe bet,” he said.  MGM is ranked CCC+ at Standard & Poor’s, while Toys R Us of
Wayne, New Jersey has a B1 rating at Moody’s.  Ceva Group  “If you’re a triple A-rated company you don’t need to
offer collateral, so really the coupons we’re seeing reflect the
junk, or at the very least marginal, credit rating of these
companies,” Hogan Lovells’ McDonald said. “Without that
collateral the coupon might be even higher.”  Ceva Group Plc, a Netherlands-based freight firm whose
senior secured debt was downgraded twice by Moody’s, to Caa2,
sold $625 million of 11.5 percent, eight-year securities in
March. “There may not be sufficient collateral to satisfy
obligations under all or any of the notes” and holders “will
not control decisions regarding collateral,” the sale
prospectus states.  “This is a risk investors are having to take because they
can’t get those sort of returns elsewhere,”  Patrick Daugherty ,
head of distressed investments at Highland Capital, said in a
phone interview from Dallas, Texas. “But if the underlying
asset isn’t worth the value of a claim, what point is there
being first in line?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  