-- Bond Sales Tumble as Ireland Crisis Spills Over: Credit Markets
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-11-30T11:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/bond-sales-tumbling-in-worst-month-since-lehman-aftermath-credit-markets.html
Corporate bond sales worldwide are
tumbling on concern Ireland’s debt crisis will spread across
Europe as returns on the notes approach their worst month since
credit markets froze two years ago.  Issuance has slumped 31 percent since Nov. 15, compared
with the same period a year earlier, after surging 34 percent in
the first half of the month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Plunging returns on debt of borrowers from France’s
 Credit Agricole SA  to Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  are dragging bonds to a 1.08 percent loss in
November, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  A five-month rally in company debt is foundering as an 85
billion euro ($111.5 billion) rescue package for Ireland, the
second this year in Europe after Greece’s bailout in May, fails
to ease concern the region’s most indebted nations will need
more international help. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development cut its global growth forecast for
next year, predicting a “soft spot” as stimulus dwindles.  “There’s been a lot more volatility in the high-yield and
investment-grade markets here in the U.S. because of what
happened in Greece in the spring and Ireland now,” said  Bonnie Baha , head of the global developed credit group at DoubleLine
Capital LP, which manages $6.8 billion in Los Angeles.  Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA , the mobile phone company whose
parent is merging with Russia’s VimpelCom Ltd., and New York-
based  Citigroup Inc.  led $107.6 billion of corporate bond sales
worldwide since Nov. 15, Bloomberg data show. That compares with
$156.3 billion during the same period a year ago and $188.3
billion in the first half of this month.  Lehman Collapse  Corporate bonds are poised for their first monthly loss
since May, when they fell 0.4 percent, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate index as of
Nov. 26. They’re on pace for the worst monthly returns since
October 2008, when the debt lost 4.44 percent in the wake of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt rose 2 basis points to 173 basis points, or 1.73
percentage points, the highest since Sept. 30, the Global Broad
Market Corporate index shows. Yields averaged 3.714 percent.  Hewlett-Packard Co. sold $2 billion of bonds to repay
commercial paper. The cost of protecting corporate bonds from
default in the U.S. rose to the highest in more than five weeks.
Leveraged loan prices fell for a sixth straight day, the longest
streak since August. Interest-rate swap spreads narrowed from
the widest in more than four months.  Commercial Paper  The world’s largest computer maker, based in Palo Alto,
California, issued $650 million of 2.2 percent, five-year notes
that yield 73 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries
and $1.35 billion of 3.75 percent, 10-year bonds at a spread of
95 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  HP last sold debt on Sept. 8, issuing $3 billion of notes
in a three-part transaction, the data show. Its $1.1 billion of
2.125 percent, five-year debt fell 0.44 cent yesterday to 99.966
cents on the dollar, for a spread of 62.3 basis points,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Companies are  cutting back  on commercial paper, short-term
borrowings that typically mature in 270 days or less. The
seasonally adjusted amount outstanding fell for a fourth
straight week to $1.065 trillion in the period ended Nov. 24,
the lowest since the week ended Sept. 22, according to Federal
Reserve data.  Bonds from Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric
Co. were the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers, with 97 trades of $1 million or more, Trace data show.  Bank Debt Risk  The difference between the cost of insuring subordinated
and senior European financial-company bonds rose to the widest
since May 2009 on fears Ireland’s 85 billion-euro ($111 billion)
bailout will be played out around the region with losses for
holders of the riskiest bank debt.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to the senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers rose 2 basis points to 167, near a 2
1/2-month high, while an index of subordinated notes climbed
15.5 basis points to 310. The gap between the two widened 13.5
to 145, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Default swaps insuring Italian government bonds rose 7
basis points to 253, contracts on Spain increased 9 basis points
to 361 and Portugal climbed 11.5 basis points to 551, all record
highs, according to CMA.  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Distress Ratio  The percentage of companies that have to pay 1,000 basis
points or more than Treasuries to borrow in the bond market fell
to the lowest in seven months, Standard & Poor’s said in a
report, signaling the economic recovery is “progressing
slowly.”  S&P’s distress ratio declined to 8.4 percent as of Nov. 15,
down from 10.6 percent in October and the lowest since it
touched 6.7 percent in April, according to S&P analysts led by
 Diane Vazza  in New York. Among distressed bonds, 85 companies
currently have issues trading with spreads of more than 1,000
basis points, down from 104 in October, S&P said.  Leveraged Loans  The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  fell 0.07 cent to
91.74 cents on the dollar, the lowest since Nov. 3. Prices on
the  index , which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated
first-lien leveraged loans, have declined from 92.72 cents on
Nov. 9, the highest since May 3. Leveraged loans and junk bonds
are rated below Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service or less than
BBB- at S&P.  In emerging markets, relative yields rose 9 basis points to
261 basis points, the widest since Oct. 20, according to
JPMorgan & Co. index data. Spreads have widened 19 basis points
since the end of October.  Global corporate bond sales declined 64 percent last week
to $30.8 billion as European sovereign-debt concerns mounted,
Bloomberg data show.  Eni SpA , Italy’s largest oil and natural
gas company, led sales with a 1 billion-euro issue due January
2018. In the U.S.,  Performance Food Group Co. , the food
distributor owned by Blackstone Group LP, led at least seven
companies announcing withdrawn offerings.  Irish Bailout  European governments agreed Nov. 28 to support Ireland
through the aid package and diluted proposals to force
bondholders to cover a share of future bailouts. European
finance chiefs ended crisis talks in Brussels by endorsing a
Franco-German compromise on post-2013 rescues that means
investors won’t automatically take losses to share the cost with
taxpayers.  The global economy will expand 4.2 percent next year
instead of the 4.5 percent predicted in May, the Paris-based
OECD said yesterday in its semi-annual Economic Outlook. Growth
will recover to 4.6 percent in 2012, the organization said.  U.S. interest-rate swap spreads narrowed by 1.6 basis
points to 24.4 basis points yesterday after expanding to the
widest last week since July 15 in a sign that investors are
shunning higher-yielding investments. In a swap, investors
exchange fixed and floating interest rates. The spread is the
difference between the fixed rate and the yield on similar-
maturity Treasuries.  Sovereign-debt woes overshadowed data showing improving
consumer spending in the U.S., where the average shopper spent
6.4 percent more over Thanksgiving weekend than last year as
more people picked up jewelry and toys.  Strengthening Profits  Corporate debt may recover as investors bet that
strengthening profits and tepid growth in the global economy
will make the securities more attractive than government debt,
said  Anthony Valeri , a market strategist with LPL Financial
Corp., which oversees $293 billion in assets. U.S. corporate
earnings per share probably climbed 38 percent this year and may
grow by as much as 11 percent in 2011, according to Citigroup.  “The backdrop for corporate debt is still positive,
especially here in the U.S.,” said Valeri, who’s based in San
Diego. “Part of this concern is going to reinforce the demand
for credit instead of having sovereign exposure.”  Bonds from Paris-based Credit Agricole, France’s second-
largest lender by assets, lost 3.3 percent this month through
Nov. 26, the worst-performing of the 50 largest issuers in the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch global index. Wal-Mart, the
world’s biggest retailer, lost 1.24 percent.  Debt from telecommunications companies including  France
Telecom SA , the country’s largest phone company, and Madrid-
based  Telefonica SA  tumbled 1.41 percent this month through Nov.
26, more than any other industry in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index.  Companies may be postponing bond sales until after
Ireland’s situation is resolved, said  Greg Tornga , the head of
investment-grade fixed income at Los Angeles-based Payden &
Rygel, which oversees about $55 billion.  “I don’t think you can find anyone who thinks rates are
going to go up so much in 30 days that they can’t wait to issue
until Ireland isn’t in the headlines anymore,” Tornga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  