-- Bond Returns Trailing Global Sovereigns by Most Since July: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2010-11-29T15:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/bond-returns-trailing-global-sovereigns-by-most-since-july-canada-credit.html
Canada’s government bond returns are
lagging behind the rest of the world this month for the first
time since July as investors bet the nation’s central bank may
increase interest rates sooner than analysts expected.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian Government Bond
Index, with 30 bonds and a par value of C$317 billion ($311
billion), lost 1.37 percent this month through Nov. 26, compared
with declines of 1.36 percent on Merrill’s index of global
sovereign bonds.  Bond prices are falling as domestic and international
indicators signal an accelerating economic recovery, even as
political unrest on the Korean peninsula and debt woes in Europe
drive risk aversion higher. Speculation that Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  may raise borrowing costs next quarter to
cool inflation is driving domestic yields higher.  “The market seems to be thinking that the Bank of Canada
may hike rates sooner than what is priced into the curve,”
 George Davis , chief technical analyst in Toronto at Royal Bank
of Canada’s RBC Capital unit, wrote in an e-mail. “The
repricing of this view has caused Canadian rates to back up,”
he said, referring to rising bond yields.  Davis said he doesn’t expect Carney to raise rates until
April, meaning the sell-off in Canadian government bonds may be
overdone. He predicts two-year  yields  will “correct” to 1.55
percent to 1.6 percent, from 1.67 percent on Nov. 26.  Bank on Hold  “Yields in Canada are back to the cheaper end of the range
now,”  Roger Quick , a fixed-income analyst with Bank of Nova
Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, said by phone from Toronto. “If
the Bank of Canada is on hold for a long time, and we think
they’re on hold until September, 70 basis points over the
overnight target is pretty good.”  Canada’s government debt outperformed the global index by
1.1 percentage points this year through October.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s corporations rather than its
federal government widened to 136 basis points, or 1.36
percentage points, from 135 basis points at the end of the
previous week, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Spreads reached 134 basis points Nov. 16, the narrowest gap
since May. Corporate yields were unchanged at 3.86 percent Nov.
26, from 3.86 percent a week earlier.  Relative yields on U.S. corporate bonds ended last week at
176 basis points, from 175 basis points the week before, the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data showed. Global corporate
spreads were 170 basis points, widening from 165 on Nov. 19.  Canadian corporate bonds are down 0.9 percent in November,
poised for the worst month this year. U.S. company debt has lost
1 percent in the month through Nov. 25. Global corporates are
down 1.2 percent.  Provincial Debt  In provincial bond markets, relative yields widened to 54
basis points, from 52 a week earlier. They reached 51 basis
points on Nov. 16, the tightest spreads since April, from as
wide as 71 basis points on May 21. Yields fell to 3.23 percent
on Nov. 26 from 3.24 percent the week before.  Provincial bonds have lost 2.1 percent this month, the
biggest loss since September 2008.  Ontario, Canada’s largest province, sold C$50 million of
floating-rate notes due in October 2015. The notes pay 23 basis
points over the quarterly Canadian Dealer Offered Rate. The
issue brings the total outstanding to C$516 million.  The yield on benchmark 10-year government bonds dropped 6
basis points to 3.11 percent, as the price of the 3.5 percent
 security  due in June 2020 dropped 50 cents to C$103.21.  Not Happening  The prospect of earlier Bank of Canada rate increases is
“off the wall,” Carlos  Leitao , chief economist with Laurentian
Bank Securities in Montreal, said in a phone interview. “That
is just not going to happen.”  Canada’s  current account  deficit widened to a record in the
third quarter, led by higher machinery and equipment imports and
a decline in exports, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa.  Payments sent abroad exceeded receipts from outside Canada
by C$17.5 billion ($17.2 billion) in the July-September period.
The figure exceeded all 16 predictions in a Bloomberg News
survey that had a median deficit of C$15.3 billion.  The slow pace of the U.S. recovery means Canadian exports
to its southern neighbor and largest trading partner will not
increase as much as some analysts expect. Inflation will remain
subdued and the Bank of Canada will not raise interest rates in
the near term, Leitao said.  Inflation Rate  Even so, reports last week showed Americans increased
spending for a fifth month in October and filed the fewest
unemployment claims in more than two years. Statistics Canada
reported that  inflation  increased to 2.4 percent in October from
1.9 percent in the prior month, faster than all 23 economists in
a Bloomberg survey predicted.  Analysts at Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp. last
week predicted the Bank of Canada will begin raising interest
rates as early as January.  “I’ve been calling for them to raise rates in January,”
 Sheryl King , head of Canada economics at Bank of America, said
in a Nov. 23 phone interview. The most recent Canadian inflation
data “probably seems like something that will prompt them to
move.”  Carney left rates unchanged at 1 percent in October after
three successive quarter-point increases starting in June. The
next rates announcement is on Dec. 7, followed by Jan. 18.  Leitao pinned falling bonds prices on investors’ bets that
the Canadian economy is strong enough to require rate increases.
He predicts Statistics Canada will announce third-quarter output
growth of 1.5 percent tomorrow, matching the median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists.  Quantitative Easing  On Nov. 3, the Federal Reserve unveiled plans to buy $600
billion of Treasury securities through June in a bid to reduce
unemployment and keep the inflation rate from falling further in
a second round of so-called quantitative easing.  “Part of the backup in yields is the recognition that,
given all the criticism, the Fed may be done with quantitative
easing,”  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at CIBC World Markets
in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “The broader
direction for yields over the next year will be higher in both
the U.S. and Canada.”  Leitao disagrees, saying a “significant” bond rally will
start by Christmas and intensify next year, as Europe’s debt
crisis creates a haven bid for Canadian assets, given the
country’s relatively sound fiscal and economic fundamentals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net 
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  