-- British Airways Wins 99% Shareholder Approval for $9 Billion Iberia Merger
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-11-29T16:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/british-airways-wins-99-shareholder-approval-for-9-billion-iberia-merger.html
British Airways Plc  and  Iberia
Lineas Aereas de Espana SA  shareholders gave the go ahead for a
$9 billion merger that will extend the U.K. company’s dominance
of lucrative trans-Atlantic routes and close the gap to European
market leaders Air France-KLM Group and Deutsche Lufthansa AG.  Iberia’s owners backed the plan in Madrid and three British
Airways resolutions approving the deal won support from more
than 99 percent of voters in London. The U.K. carrier’s cabin-
crew union marked the occasion by announcing plans for a strike
ballot in a 21-month dispute over pay and staffing levels.  British Airways Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  says
he’s planning further purchases in a push to cut costs and
penetrate new markets. The London-based carrier tapped a surge
in demand for business flights to post its first profit in two
years in the three months ended Sept. 30 after Iberia returned
to profit in the second quarter, and Walsh said today that fresh
walkouts by flight attendants won’t deflect from the recovery.  “The merger news means they can get on with details like
coordinating flight schedules,” said John Strickland, director
of the JLS aviation consultancy. “The strike threat is another
aggravation and it’s hard to understand why this dispute hasn’t
been resolved. BA seems to have made some kind of a compromise.”  Today’s votes pave the way for the carriers to combine
under the International Consolidated Airlines Group SA holding
company. The transaction is scheduled take effect on Jan. 21
after gaining U.K. High Court approval on Jan. 19, they said.  ‘Active Role’  “The aviation industry is moving towards consolidation and
we need to be sure we are playing an active role,” British
Airways Chairman  Martin Broughton  said at today’s meeting in the
U.K. capital. His counterpart in Madrid,  Antonio Vazquez , said
that Iberia needs to become “a main player within a big airline
group” so as not to get left behind after mergers among rivals.  Air France became Europe’s biggest carrier in 2004 with the
purchase of KLM, and last year bought a 25 percent stake in
Italy’s Alitalia. Lufthansa, the region’s No. 2, acquired Swiss
International Air Lines AG in 2007 and has since bought Austrian
Airlines AG, U.K,-based BMI and is adding Brussels Airlines NV.  British Airways has a market value of 3.02 billion pounds
($4.7 billion) after  advancing  40 percent this year, and  Iberia 
is worth 3 billion euros ($4 billion) following a 70 percent
gain. The U.K. carrier fell 3.6 percent to 262 pence today in
London trading, with Iberia declining 2.5 percent.  The companies first announced that they were in talks about
an all-share merger in July 2008, the month that oil prices
reached a record $147 a barrel, slashing profit margins and
causing some carriers to collapse.  Pension Hurdle  A tie-up was agreed in November 2009, conditional on Iberia
approving British Airways plans for reducing a 3.7 billion pound
pension deficit. The Spanish carrier’s board approved that
strategy on Sept. 23, clearing the way to consult investors.  British Airways says the merger will generate 400 million
euros of synergies in the fifth year and give it the option of
adding flights in Madrid, away from London Heathrow, which as
Europe’s busiest airport is afflicted by capacity constraints.  The combination will also create a more effective bulwark
against discount carriers such as Ryanair Holdings Plc and
EasyJet Plc and give “considerable scale” within the European
market, Walsh said today.  Hit List  The CEO said in September that he intends to push on with
consolidation and that British Airways and Iberia have already
identified 12 other carriers which would be attractive partners.  The executive says that merger candidates are more likely
to come from within the Oneworld airline alliance of which the
two are members, together with carriers including AMR Corp.’s
American Airlines, Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. and Qantas
Airways Ltd. British Airways has led the group’s recruitment of
India’s Kingfisher Airlines, S7 Airlines of Russia and  Air
Berlin Plc , Germany’s biggest carrier after Lufthansa.  British Airways and American said last month that they
would start sharing booking codes on more than 2,700 services,
as well as adding new routes, after winning antitrust approval
to extend their alliance on trans-Atlantic flights.  The Unite union will “shortly” serve notice of a ballot on
renewed strike action by BA’s 12,000 cabin crew, it said today
at a London press conference. The poll will be concluded in
early January, joint General Secretary  Tony Woodley  said.  While British Airways and Unite have reached broad
agreement on employment terms, the union wants concessions on
the treatment of striking workers, including the immediate
restoration of travel benefits suspended until 2013 and binding
arbitration on all disciplinary cases related to the dispute.  ‘Torn Apart’  Walsh said that in the event of a further walkouts, “we are
just going to continue to run the business,” adding that
factions within the union are “tearing themselves apart.”  After the last round of talks with Woodley the pair “shook
hands” on a deal, only for the union leader to renege on the
plan following meetings with elected officials, the CEO said.  Woodley said didn’t shake on a agreement but held
“discussions,” and that the suspension of travel perks for 2 1/2
years rendered the proposals “as dead as the proverbial dodo.”  Walsh said he may main remain involved in negotiations even
when he becomes CEO of the IAG holding company, at which point
BA will be led by its current finance chief,  Keith Williams .  “I’m very happy to remain directly involved to play
whatever role Keith would like me to play,” Walsh said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  