-- British Airways Cabin-Crew Union to Hold Strike Vote in Dispute Over Pay
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-11-29T14:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/british-airways-cabin-crew-union-to-hold-strike-vote-in-dispute-over-pay.html
British Airways Plc ’s cabin-crew
union said it will ballot members on the resumption of strike
action in a dispute over pay and staffing levels.  The Unite union will serve notice of the vote “shortly”
once steps have been taken to ensure its legality, joint General
Secretary  Tony Woodley  said today at a press conference in
London. The ballot will be concluded in early January, he said.  While British Airways and Unite have reached broad
agreement on employment terms, the union wants concessions on
the treatment of striking workers, including the immediate
restoration of travel benefits suspended until 2013 and binding
arbitration on all disciplinary cases related to the dispute.  “Members will decide whether this dispute is worth settling
when there’s a reasonable offer,” Woodley said. “I acknowledge
that the air transport industry is cut throat. But not a single
one of these demands costs BA a penny. The question is whether
the company makes members walk the plank or behaves honorably.”  Unite has indicated to Britain’s  Advisory, Conciliation and
Arbitration Service  that it will make itself available for talks
with British Airways a week today after being contacted by the
state-funded group over the weekend, the official said.  British Airways said in a statement that Woodley “shook
hands” last month on an agreement to recommend proposals to his
members, and that Unite has “broken this promise.”  In event of a fresh strike, the airline said, contingency
plans will allow operation of normal time timetables at London
City and Gatwick airports and all long-haul flights at Heathrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  