-- Britain's Total Global Steel Joins Chinese Team at Climate Talks in Cancun
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2010-11-29T11:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/britain-s-total-global-steel-joins-chinese-team-at-climate-talks-in-cancun.html
The founder of a London-based metals
brokerage joined a Chinese delegation traveling today to Cancun,
Mexico, to discuss what the world’s biggest emitter can do to
fight climate change.  “Major industrials in China sit up and listen,” Total
Global Steel Chief Executive Officer  Martin Lonergan  said in an
interview. “They’re very receptive when it comes to talking
about cleaning their act up and offsetting emissions.”  Lonergan, who started Total Global Steel as a metals broker
in 1999, was invited by the Beijing Stock Exchange to accompany
Chinese officials attending the climate talks. Lonergan works
with Chinese businesses to measure carbon-dioxide emissions and
matches buyers and sellers of offset credits in China.  China is not bound by emissions regulation and has
volunteered to reduce its impact on the climate, Lonergan said.
The country’s government said it wants to cut carbon dioxide
emissions per unit of gross domestic product by 45 percent from
2005 through 2020, and get 15 percent of its energy from
renewable sources.  Total Global Steel was backed by U.K. trade and industry to
join the Beijing exchange to offer carbon offsets. As part of
the Chinese delegation, Lonergan will visit San Francisco,
Chicago, New York and Washington, and attend the climate talks
in Cancun, where nations will work on a treaty to extend or
replace the 1997 climate protection Kyoto Protocol.  Total Global Steel was embroiled earlier this year in
buying carbon credits that had already been used by factories
and power stations in Hungary. Lonergan said he still holds
recycled carbon credits; he declined to say how many.  Kyoto Compliant  “We’ve got a stock of them,” he said. “They are Kyoto
compliant. They came to us from a source in the Far East. We
only lose money when we liquidate the position.”  Lonergan said China is taking lessons from the European
Union’s emissions trading system, the world’s largest, to help
develop its own carbon market to reduce emissions and spur
investment in clean technologies. The market may be imposed in
certain regions of China or for particular industries, said Huan
Chen, deputy director general at China Clean Development
Mechanism Fund.  The U.S. is losing out to China in developing clean
technologies, said Erwin Jackson, deputy chief executive officer
of Australia’s Climate Institute, in an interview.  The China Beijing Environment Exchange and NYSE Euronext
and Caisse des Depots et Consignations’s Bluenext bourse founded
the so-called Panda Standard, China’s own quality mark for
emission reduction credits. These may come from projects such as
restrictions on logging in the northern forests of China.  ‘Fair Argument’  Total Global Steel, with seven workers in Shanghai and
plans to hire more, is working with China Everbright Ltd., a Hong
Kong-based bank, to offset their emissions. Factories are likely
to reduce and offset emissions to prevent a carbon tax being
added to their imports into Europe, Lonergan said.  “It would be fair argument for the EU to place a carbon
border tax on Chinese imports,” he said. China would rather
produce steel under its own CO2-pricing system, he said. 