-- Brumby Concedes Defeat in Victoria State; Baillieu Takes Over as Premier
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-11-29T06:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/brumby-concedes-defeat-in-victoria-state-baillieu-takes-over-as-premier.html
The Liberal-National coalition will
form government in Victoria, Australia’s second-most populous
state, for the first time in 11 years after Labor Party leader
 John Brumby  conceded his party lost the election.  “The electorate has spoken and I think we must respect
their verdict however close the outcome,” Brumby told reporters
at a media conference today. The most likely result is a
coalition victory by 45 seats to 43, he said,  Ted Baillieu, a former architect who has led the opposition
since 2006, will take over as Premier. Brumby, who became leader
in 2007 after  Steve Bracks  resigned, last year steered Victoria
through Australia’s worst wildfires, when 173  people  died in
what has become known as Black Saturday, and international
criticism of attacks on Indian students. Labor came to power in
1999 and won elections in 2002 and 2006.  “In essence, after 11 years the people of Victoria felt it
was time to give another team, and another party, a chance,”
Brumby said. “The weight of time took its toll.”  This year’s poll was fought on issues including public
transportation, health care, education and law and order.  “We are ready to govern,” Baillieu said earlier today.
“We are focused on what it takes to provide stable,
disciplined, responsible government.”  Labor held 55 of the 88 seats in parliament, compared with
the Liberals’ 23, the Nationals with 9 and one independent
before the election. A total of 45 seats is needed to win.  Melbourne, Victoria’s capital, is home to BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, Foster’s Group Ltd.,
Australia’s biggest liquor maker, and Telstra Corp., the
nation’s largest phone company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  