-- GM's Cadillac Unit Agrees to Sponsor Doral U.S. PGA Tour Golf Tournament
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-11-29T19:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/cadillac-to-sponsor-2011-pga-event-2-years-after-dropping-golf.html
General Motors Co.  will return as a
PGA Tour sponsor in 2011, two years after ending its 50-year
partnership with golf’s top professional circuit because of
financial difficulties.  Citing a stronger economy, GM’s Cadillac brand will assume
sponsorship of the annual World Golf Championships PGA event at
 Doral Golf Resort & Spa  in Miami in March. The two sides signed
a contract through 2016 for the tournament to be renamed the
Cadillac Championship. The auto company, which emerged from
bankruptcy in July 2009 and issued stock this month, also is in
preliminary discussions with the PGA Tour to create a new event
in Detroit, the Tour announced today.  In 2009, GM ended its sponsorship deal with the world’s
richest golf tour when it entered bankruptcy. At one time, GM’s
Buick unit sponsored four tournaments on the Tour, including the
Buick Classic at New York’s Westchester Country Club.  “We are partnering with a company that has demonstrated,
over a long, long period of time, a tremendous knowledge for
marketing,” PGA Tour commissioner  Tim Finchem  said in a
conference call. “The problems that befell this company were
not about selling cars.”  GM is reviving its marketing efforts to sell its new
products. In the year leading up to last year’s bankruptcy, the
automaker ended its relationship with golfer  Tiger Woods  and
pulled advertising from events such as football’s Super Bowl and
the Academy Awards. Seoul-based  Hyundai Motor Co.  now is the
exclusive national sponsor of the Oscars,  Joel Ewanick , GM’s
vice president of marketing and a former Hyundai executive, said
at a press event on Oct. 27.  ‘World Standard’  “The prominence of being associated with the PGA is the
best players in the world playing at the highest level,” said
 Don Butler , vice president of marketing for Cadillac. “We were
the standard of the world for the better part of a century and
we do intend to regain that mantle.”  With a stronger balance sheet and profits rolling in, GM is
boosting its advertising spending and doubling down marketing
efforts. The annual budget for its four vehicle brands will
exceed $2.5 billion, which is what GM spent on the eight brands
the automaker had before bankruptcy, Ewanick said last month. GM
launched a new Chevrolet campaign during the World Series this
year and will return to the Super Bowl.  “Cadillac is a brand that has always been strong,”
Finchem said. “It is getting stronger now and to be a part of
that upswing is a great opportunity for us.”  The World Golf Championships are a series of four annual
events co-sanctioned by professional tours in the U.S.,
Australia, Japan, South Africa and Europe. The other events are
the  Accenture Match Play Championships  in Arizona, the
 Bridgestone Invitational  in Ohio and the  HSBC Champions  in
China. Over the past decade, World Golf Championships events
have been played in 10 countries on five continents, according
to the  series website .  The location and scheduling for a potential Cadillac-
sponsored event in Detroit isn’t confirmed, Finchem said. He
said every tournament for the 2011 season is fully funded,
though not all will have a title sponsor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 