-- Canada Third-Quarter Current Account Gap Hits Record on Machinery Imports
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-29T14:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/canada-third-quarter-current-account-gap-hits-record-on-machinery-imports.html
Canada’s  current account  deficit
widened to a record in the third quarter as a strong currency
pared exports and led companies to boost machinery and equipment
imports.  Payments sent abroad exceeded receipts from outside Canada
by C$17.5 billion ($17.2 billion) in the July-September period,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The figure exceeded all
16 predictions in a Bloomberg News survey that had a median
deficit of C$15.3 billion.  The Canadian dollar has traded for close to parity with the
U.S. dollar for most of this year, adding to pressure on
exporters from increased competition and uneven global demand.
The goods surplus with the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner,
declined by about C$3 billion for a second quarter, Statistics
Canada said.  “We are going to stay in deficit for a long time”
probably through 2012, said  Krishen Rangasamy , an economist at
CIBC World Markets in Toronto. “Our share of exports to the
U.S. has gone down quite a bit,” to about 15 percent from 20
percent in 2002, he said.  Canada’s dollar weakened 0.1 percent to C$1.0220 per U.S.
dollar at 9:46 a.m. in New York, from C$1.0213 on Nov. 26. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.85 U.S. cents.  Goods Deficit  The deficit in traded goods almost tripled in the third
quarter, to C$6.5 billion from C$2.24 billion in the second
quarter. Goods imports rose to C$106.2 billion from C$102.6
billion, the fifth straight increase, with more than half the
rise in machinery and equipment. Goods exports fell to C$99.7
billion from C$100.4 billion, the first decline since the second
quarter of 2009.  “We continue to operate our sawmills at approximately 50
percent of capacity and this continues to negatively impact our
cost of manufacturing as well,”  Michel Dumas , Chief Financial
Officer of Tembec Inc., said on a Nov. 17 earnings call.  The deficit in investment income narrowed to C$4.2 billion
from C$4.66 billion on higher profits at Canadian-owned
companies abroad.  The deficit in services trade was little changed at C$5.66
billion, Statistics Canada said.  The agency increased its estimate of the second-quarter
current account deficit to C$13 billion from an initially
reported C$11 billion. The current account is the broadest
measure of international trade, and has been in deficit for
eight straight quarters.  ‘Divergence’  “The deterioration in the current account balance reflects
the divergence between domestic momentum and subdued foreign
demand,” said  David Tulk , a senior macro strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank.  Merchandise trade will subtract 1.9 percentage points from
Canada’s  economic growth rate  this year, and add 0.3 percent in
2011, the Bank of Canada predicted last month.  Statistics Canada will probably report tomorrow that
economic growth slowed to a 1.4 percent annualized pace in the
third quarter from 2 percent in the previous three months,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “With Canada’s economy still fragile, protecting and
creating jobs, stability and financial security remain our
number one priority,” Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said Nov.
26. The country’s unemployment rate was 7.9 percent in October.  In a separate report, Statistics Canada said the industrial
product price index rose 0.5 percent in October from September,
the fastest in six months. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 13 economists was for a rise of 0.3 percent.  The raw-materials price index advanced 1.7 percent,
Statistics Canada said, while the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 10 economists was for a 0.9 percent rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  