-- Canada Companies Lead Recovery as Currency's Gains Spur Higher Investments
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-11-29T14:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/canada-companies-lead-recovery-as-currency-s-gains-spur-higher-investments.html
Canada’s largest companies increased
investment to the highest this year in the third quarter,
suggesting firms are using more cash and taking advantage of a
strong currency to buy assets and support the  economic recovery .  Capital spending by companies on the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index  that have reported results in this earnings
season rose 19.2 percent from a year earlier to C$27 billion
($26.5 billion), led by  Suncor Energy  Inc. and other oil
producers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. The
pace of increase slowed from the 30 percent year-over-year
increase seen in the second quarter as pipeline companies such
as  Enbridge Inc . scaled back spending.  The data support predictions by the Bank of Canada and
economists such as Bank of America Corp.’s  Sheryl King  that
businesses will use more of their cash to finance capital
expenditures as they seek to boost competitiveness and take
advantage of a stronger Canadian dollar that makes imported
machinery cheaper.  Companies that  cut spending  during the recession need to
boost it by about 20 percent over the next two years “just to
replace worn out capital,” King said in a telephone interview
from Toronto. “If they want to get at all competitive they
probably have to drive those numbers up even higher.”  In an Oct. 29 Bank of America Merrill Lynch report co-
written with  Ryan Bohren , King estimated Canadian non-financial
companies had C$241 billion in cash deposits in the second
quarter, about C$100 billion more than what would be considered
a normal level.  Lower Capital Stock  The capital stock of businesses is C$130 billion short of
where it should be given the Canadian dollar’s appreciation over
the past decade, the report said. The currency has strengthened
by 32 percent against the U.S. dollar on a monthly basis over
the past 10 years.  The Bank of Canada  said last month  the recovery in business
spending has been subdued, with investment through June
recovering just 15 percent of the losses incurred during the
recession. The bank cited an “unusual degree of uncertainty”
during the global recession as a possible cause.  Still, the central bank raised its projection for
investment spending for the next two years, because of
companies’ efforts to improve competitiveness, strong balance
sheets and favorable  credit conditions . It predicted business
investment will contribute 0.3 percentage point to the 3 percent
growth it projects for 2010, and 0.9 percentage point to next
year’s 2.3 percent expansion.  ‘Productivity Gap’  “There is a big productivity gap with the United States
and with a host of other countries,” Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  said in an Oct. 23 Bloomberg interview. “There is a
competitiveness imperative for a sustained program of
investment.”  A chart in last month’s monetary policy report showed the
central bank projects it will take 16 quarters for capital
spending to reach about 95 percent of pre-recession levels. The
chart shows an annualized growth rate in business investment of
about 11 percent in the third quarter, and an average growth
rate of about 8 percent over the next nine quarters.  That compares with the Bank of Canada’s July predictions,
where a similar chart showed spending would grow at about a 5
percent pace in the third quarter and increase at roughly a 6.5
percent rate over the next nine quarters.  GDP Report  Canada’s gross domestic product report for the third
quarter will be released tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. New York time,
and it may show weakening in areas outside of corporate
investment, such as housing and exports. Economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg predict Canada’s growth slowed to a 1.4 percent
annualized rate in the July-September period, down from a 2
percent pace in the second quarter and less than a quarter of
the 5.8 percent rate seen in the first quarter, according to the
median of 21 forecasts. The central bank  predicted  last month a
1.6 percent growth rate in the third quarter.  Statistics Canada reported today the country’s current-
account deficit widened to a record C$17.5 billion in the third
quarter as a stronger currency encouraged imports of machinery
and equipment.  The slowdown contrasts with accelerating growth in Canada’s
largest trading partner. Third quarter annualized growth in the
U.S. was revised higher to 2.5 percent, from an initial estimate
of 2 percent and a 1.7 percent rise in the second quarter,
according to figures released Nov. 23 by the U.S. Commerce
Department.  Foreshadowing  Capital expenditures by the 209 companies on Toronto’s
composite index that have reported since Oct. 7, the start of
the current earnings season, have rebounded from a three-year
low of C$18.2 billion in the second quarter of last year.
Changes in the pace of capital expenditure for listed companies
have foreshadowed changes in business investment growth in the
national accounts 62 percent of the time since 2005, according
to Bloomberg data.  The government has also taken steps to encourage
investment. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s 2010 fiscal plan
said that Canada aims to be “a tariff-free zone for
manufacturers,” after tariffs were removed on imports of
machinery and equipment in the previous year’s budget.  Five companies recorded more than C$1 billion in capital
expenditures in the third quarter. Four are energy firms --
Suncor,  Encana Corp .,  Talisman Energy  Inc. and  Imperial Oil  Ltd.
-- while the other, TransCanada Corp., is a pipeline company.
 Barrick Gold  Corp. led non-energy companies in spending last
quarter with C$786 million in investment, followed by  BCE Inc. ’s
C$748 million.  Pipeline companies scaled back capital spending, with
Enbridge reducing investments by 25 percent from a year earlier
and expenditures by TransCanada down 17 percent, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilan Kolet  in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  