-- U.S. Equities to Outperform Canada, Emerging Markets, TD Says
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-11-29T21:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/canada-equities-will-trail-u-s-stocks-in-2011-td-strategist-gorman-says.html
U.S. equities will outperform both
Canadian and emerging-market stocks for the first time since
1998 next year as  corporate profits  improve while interest rates
remain low, TD Waterhouse said.  Major U.S. stock indexes should post “low double-digit”
percentage increases in 2011 while Canadian and emerging-market
indexes advance by high-single-digit percentages,  Bob Gorman ,
chief portfolio strategist of the unit of Toronto-Dominion Bank,
is to say in a forthcoming report. Larger U.S. companies such as
Microsoft Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will lead the
advance after trailing the market in 2010  After jumping 23 percent last year, the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index has increased  6.5 percent  in 2010 as concerns over
European budget deficits and persistent U.S. unemployment have
limited gains from improving corporate earnings. Canada’s S&P/
TSX Composite Index has rallied 9.8 percent, spurred by higher
prices of base and precious metals.  “I think what you have is a tug of war between solid
fundamentals and macroeconomic concerns, and the fundamentals
will hold sway next year,” Gorman said in a telephone
interview. “You’re going to have modest economic growth in a
low-interest-rate environment, which historically is pretty
positive for equities.”  While the U.S. housing market and  joblessness  remain
troublesome, recent data on production, income, consumer
spending and prices indicate that neither a return to recession
nor deflation is likely, Gorman said.  Economic Growth  U.S. economic growth will probably be in the 2 percent to 3
percent range, enough to boost companies’ earnings without
igniting inflation, Gorman said.  Mergers and acquisitions should also benefit U.S. equity
prices as record cash-on-hand combines with low share prices
relative to earnings, he said.  S&P 500 stocks trade at  $14.87  per dollar of trailing 12
months’ profit, compared with a 10-year average of $18.37.  Last year, Gorman forecast high-single-digit returns for
both U.S. and Canadian stocks.  Larger U.S. stocks are likely to outperform smaller ones in
2011, as they are less expensive, Gorman said. Stocks in the
 Russell 2000  index of small-cap companies cost $29.85 per dollar
of profit.  Gorman made a similar forecast for companies with the
largest market capitalization last year. The Russell 2000 has
surged  17 percent  this year as investors have increasingly
embraced riskier assets.  Technology Shares  The strategist is recommending large-cap technology stocks,
which have underperformed the broader market even after a 52
percent increase in  earnings per share  from the third quarter of
last year to the same quarter of this year.  Microsoft, International Business Machines Corp., Oracle
Corp., Cisco Systems Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co., each of which
trades for less than $14 per dollar of estimated profit over the
next year, are likely to outperform, he said.  More-conservative investors looking for  risk-adjusted
return  should consider dividend-paying U.S. consumer companies,
such as Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble Co. and PepsiCo
Inc., he said.  Goldman Sachs stands to benefit from a rise in mergers and
acquisitions, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. should gain from
improved productivity in from the former Washington Mutual
business it bought in 2008, Gorman said.  Rate Increase  Utility stocks  are likely to trail the broader market,
because the U.S. Federal Reserve is likely to boost interest
rates in the second half of 2011, he said.  In Canada, energy stocks, which have climbed 2.2 percent
this year, should do better in 2011 due to higher oil prices, he
said.  The country’s  major banks  are likely to gain on prospects
of earnings and dividend growth. Among the country’s six largest
banks excluding TD, Royal Bank and Bank of Nova Scotia should
rally the most, Gorman said. Royal Bank, the only Canadian
lender whose shares have declined in 2010, should show improved
operating results, while Scotiabank will benefit from its
presence in the Caribbean and Latin America.  Germany, Switzerland and the U.K. will lead other developed
markets as the debt crisis continues to weigh on southern
European equities, he said. China will outperform other emerging
markets as inflation concerns inhibit Indian stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  