-- Mayor Bloomberg Wins Waiver for Black to Become Chancellor of NYC Schools
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-11-30T00:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/cathleen-black-to-become-new-york-city-schools-head-as-state-grants-waiver.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  won
state permission for  Cathie Black , a publishing executive, to
head the nation’s biggest school system after he proposed
appointing a career educator to help her.  Black’s “training, background and experience are
substantially equivalent to the certification requirements”
needed to do the job, State Education Commissioner David Steiner
said today in a decision distributed by e-mail.  Steiner waived a requirement that the chancellor have a
background in education, pending her completion of training in
preventing child abuse and school violence, according to the
decision. Bloomberg told Steiner on Nov. 26 that Black would
make Deputy Chancellor Shael Polakow-Suransky the system’s
senior deputy and academic chief if her appointment was cleared.  “I find that Ms. Black’s exceptional record of
successfully leading complex organizations and achievement of
excellence in her endeavors, warrant certification,” Steiner
said in the decision.  Bloomberg named Black, 66, as his choice for the job on
Nov. 9 after  Joel Klein  resigned. She’s chairman of the Hearst
Corp. unit that produces Esquire, Cosmopolitan and more than a
dozen other magazines, capping a lifelong publishing career. An
advisory panel named to weigh Black’s qualifications had
recommended denying the waiver, according to Steiner’s decision.  ‘Move Forward’  “I hope we can move forward on the many challenges the
system faces, including creating a curriculum that will give
students a well-rounded education, new and better interventions
for struggling students, and early action to turn around failing
schools,” said  Michael Mulgrew , president of the United
Federation of Teachers, in an e-mailed statement. The New York-
based federation represents about 200,000 members, according to
its  website .  “It is now time to put politics aside and recognize that
it is in the best interest of our children for Cathie Black to
succeed as chancellor,” the mayor said today in a statement
sent by e-mail. He called Steiner’s decision “the right one for
our kids and our schools.”  The New York Times said on Nov. 24 that Steiner would
approve Black if Bloomberg appointed an educator to assist her.  Bloomberg said in a letter to Steiner last week that
Polakow-Suransky, now deputy chancellor for performance and
accountability, “has spent his career working to improve New
York City schools on behalf of our highest need students.”  The mayor, who took office in 2002, has three years
remaining in what he has said will be his final term. Bloomberg
is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  