-- China's Defense of North Korean Ally Risks Alienating Top Trading Partners
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-29T19:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/china-s-defense-of-north-korean-ally-risks-alienating-top-trading-partners.html
China’s reluctance to restrain North
Korea comes with a price, putting it at odds with its three
biggest  trading partners  and threatening to drive South Korea
and Japan into a closer alliance with the U.S.  China has avoided blaming its ally of 60 years for last
week’s artillery attack on South Korea, which killed four
people. Instead, it criticized joint naval exercises by South
Korea and the U.S. that began yesterday in the Yellow Sea.  In doing so, President  Hu Jintao  is putting political
priorities ahead of the economic interests that helped China’s
gross domestic product expand more than 90-fold in the past
three decades to become the world’s second largest. Combined
trade with the U.S., Japan and South Korea, which have all urged
China to restrain the regime in Pyongyang, is almost 300 times
larger than its commerce with North Korea.  “The Chinese leadership is very cautious, so they opt to
go light on North Korea, even at very substantial cost to their
relations with South Korea, Japan, the U.S. and Australia,”
said  Kenneth Lieberthal , director of the John L. Thornton China
Center at the Brookings Institution in Washington.  China’s economic integration with the world has been
accompanied by a growing stake in financial markets that have
been rattled by tensions on the Korean peninsula. Its $2.6
trillion of foreign currency reserves is more than twice the
amount in Japan, the second-largest holder, and included $883.5
billion of U.S. Treasuries as of September.  Stocks Trading  The combined value of stocks traded in China and Hong Kong
account for 13 percent of the global total, double the size of
the U.K. equity market. The MSCI World index  fell as much as  2
percent on Nov. 23, the day North Korea fired at the South
Korean island of Yeonpyeong. The won and the yen have led Asian
currencies lower since the artillery attack.  The Chinese government’s main goal is to preserve regional
stability by preventing the collapse of Kim Jong Il’s regime,
which might unleash a flood of refugees into northeastern China
along a shared 1,415-kilometer (880-mile) border and create a
democratic, unified Korea allied with the U.S.  “The Chinese worry about refugees and chaos from a North
Korean collapse in the short term, and in the long term of the
magnetic effect of having a strong modernized Korea of 75
million people on their border,” said  Michael J. Green , senior
adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington and a former senior director for Asia at the National
Security Council under President  George W. Bush .  ‘Calm and Restraint’  Since the shelling of Yeonpyeong, China has mostly limited
itself to calls for calm and restraint.  Wu Dawei , China’s top
negotiator for multinational talks aimed at curbing North
Korea’s nuclear program, yesterday proposed an “emergency”
meeting of the two Koreas, China, the U.S., Japan and Russia in
Beijing next month.  “The six-party talks cannot substitute for action by North
Korea to comply with its obligations,” said Nicholas J.C.
Snyder, a spokesman at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. “Clear
steps by North Korea are needed to demonstrate a change of
behavior.”  With China unable to stop North Korea’s nuclear weapons
proliferation efforts, it’s not clear how much sway it holds
over the regime, said Lieberthal. “They have not done very well
in getting the North Koreans to make the decisions they want the
North Koreans to make,” he said.  Request to China  In 2007, U.S. Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice 
 instructed  the U.S. Embassy in Beijing to ask Chinese
authorities to block exports of North Korean missile parts to
Iran through Beijing, according to a cable released on the
WikiLeaks.org website.  “Request China to stop an imminent shipment to Iran’s
ballistic missile program,” reads the Oct. 31 cable, labeled
“Secret” and posted by WikiLeaks, a non-profit organization
that has put on the Internet thousands of confidential U.S.
government communications.  “Remind Chinese officials that President Bush has been
personally engaged on the issue of the transshipment of
ballistic missile parts between North Korea and Iran via
Beijing,” the cable said.  South Korea showed little interest in the Chinese proposal
for emergency talks, with its Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
Trade saying only that it would consider it “very cautiously.”  “Right now, it’s just useless talk to simply call for
getting back to talks,” said  Victor Cha , who holds the Korea
Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington. “It’s typical no-risk, no-cost, no-commitment
China.”  Criticizing Exercises  While resisting calls to pressure North Korea, China has
criticized the exercises involving the nuclear-powered aircraft
carrier USS George Washington.  On Nov. 26, Foreign Ministry Spokesman  Hong Lei  said China
was opposed to any country conducting military activities
without permission in its exclusive economic zone, which extends
for 200 nautical miles from its coast. China’s territorial
waters end 12 miles from the shoreline.  China’s fear of being contained may explain its behavior,
said  Bonnie Glaser , a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington. China sees the U.S.
under President  Barack Obama  as increasingly trying to stem its
influence in Asia, she said.  Counterbalance China  “The U.S. is seen at best as seeking to counterbalance
Chinese influence throughout the Asia-Pacific, and, at worst, to
strategically encircle and contain China’s rise,” Glaser said.
“Against this background, North Korea is still an important
strategic asset.”  China’s reluctance to break with its ally is also due to a
shared history in the 1950-53 Korean War, when they fought
against U.S.-led forces. In October, Chinese General  Guo Boxiong , a member of China’s ruling Politburo, traveled to North
Korea to commemorate what he called their joint victory over the
“imperialist aggression.”  China’s stance threatens to further sour relations with its
biggest Asian trading partners. Ties with South Korea were
already strained after China refused to blame North Korea for
the sinking of a South Korean warship in March that killed 46
sailors. In Japan,  polls  showed trust of China plummeting after
a territorial dispute over uninhabited islands flared up in
September.  Trade Relations  In the first seven months of this year, China’s two-way
 trade  with the U.S., Japan and South Korea was a combined $484.7
billion, according to China’s customs bureau. During the same
period, trade between China and North Korea amounted to $1.65
billion.  The mismatch has led some officials in Beijing to push for
an overhaul of ties, focusing on a more realistic sense of
“what North Korea means to China,” said  Zhu Feng , a professor
of international relations at Peking University.  “The attack has injected growing anxiety about the
stability of the North Korean behavior among Chinese diplomats
and officials,” Zhu said.  China’s leverage over North Korea stems from its role as
the north’s biggest trading partner and supplier of much of its
foreign currency, fuel and food.  The reluctance to use that influence may backfire,
Lieberthal said. The Chinese “may inadvertently create their
own worst situation, where the North Korean regime ceases to be
viable,” he said.  -- Michael Forsythe ,  Peter S. Green . With assistance from Viola
Gienger,  Miles Weiss  and  Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington. Editors:
 Ken Fireman ,  Bill Austin   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  