-- China Stocks Fall on Tightening Concerns; Health, Consumer Shares Advance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-29T08:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/china-s-stocks-drop-on-tightening-concerns-banks-petrochina-lead-decline.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
Shanghai Composite Index lower for a second day, on speculation
tighter monetary policies to counter inflation will slow the
country’s economic growth.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  sank 0.7 percent
after the Economic Observer said regulators are assessing data
from lenders to finalize new supervisory requirements. Jiangxi
Copper Co. lost 2.2 percent amid concern slowing economic growth
will curb commodities demand.  Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical
Group Co.  led gains by healthcare and consumer-staple stocks on
speculation the industries will weather tightening policies.  The  Shanghai Composite , which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, fell 5.34, or 0.2 percent, to 2,866.36 at the 3
p.m. close. It declined 0.9 percent on Nov. 26. The  CSI 300
Index  dropped 0.2 percent to 3,190.05.  “Investors remain cautious on speculation of tighter
policies including interest rate hikes,” said  Wu Kan , a
Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co., which
oversees $285 million. “The fluctuations will continue with
downward pressure.”  The Shanghai gauge has slumped 9.3 percent since reaching
an almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 on concern that accelerated
monetary tightening will crimp economic growth. The central bank
has ordered banks to set aside larger reserves twice in two
weeks after raising interest rates in October, the first
increase since 2007.  Stocks fell today even after European governments sought to
quell market turmoil by agreeing to give debt-strapped Ireland
an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package and diluting
proposals to force bondholders to cover a share of future
bailouts. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.7 percent, the
biggest gain in more than a week.  Bank Regulator  Industrial & Commercial Bank fell 0.7 percent to 4.29 yuan,
the lowest close since Oct. 29, while Agricultural Bank lost 0.4
percent to 2.63 yuan.  The banking regulator will require lenders to maintain a
minimum overall capital adequacy ratio of 8 percent, plus 2.5
percent of surplus capital and another countercyclical buffer of
up to 2.5 percent, the Economic Observer’s report said.  Agricultural Bank’s Hong Kong-listed shares were also cut
to “neutral” from “overweight” by JPMorgan analysts
including  Samuel Chen . The analysts also downgraded Bank of
China Ltd.’s Hong Kong and Shanghai shares. Bank of China lost
0.3 percent to 3.31 yuan.  Commodity Companies  Gauges of materials and energy producers in  the CSI 300
Index  dropped 1.7 percent, the largest declines of 10 industry
groups. Jiangxi Copper dropped 2.2 percent to 34.21 yuan, while
 Aluminum Corp. of China , the listed unit of China’s biggest
maker of the lightweight metal, fell 1.4 percent to 10.22 yuan.  The Shanghai Futures Exchange said on Nov. 26 that it will
increase the proportion of cash that traders must deposit with
brokerages on copper, aluminum, steel wire, gold and fuel oil
transactions to 10 percent of the total value after the market
closes today. It will raise the limit on daily changes in prices
to 6 percent, the exchange said as part of a wider government
crackdown on commodity speculation and food prices.  The government will continue to tighten monetary policy to
counter high inflation, BOC International said in a report
today. China’s  inflation  may rise to 5 percent next year, the
report said. Government data showed that prices grew by 4.4
percent in October, the fastest pace in two years.  “The past weekend was almost a vacuum for news on
government policies,” said Dazhong’s Wu. “That added
uncertainties regarding the future control measures in the
market.”  Investor Havens  Measures of  healthcare  and consumer-staples stocks in the
CSI 300 advanced 2 percent, the most among the broader index’s
groups, as investors bet earnings in the two industries will
weather tighter monetary policies.  Shanghai Fosun  advanced 2.8 percent to 15.14 yuan, the
highest close since Nov. 10.  Yunnan Baiyao Group Co. , a
traditional Chinese medicine maker, rose 1.8 percent to 67 yuan.  Anhui Gujing Distillery Co.  surged by the 10 percent daily
limit to 90.75 yuan, the highest close since it first traded in
October 1996. The company plans to raise as much as 1.3 billion
yuan from a private placement of as many as 20 million shares,
according to a statement from the Chinese liquor maker to
Shenzhen’s stock exchange.  Kweichow Moutai Co. , China’s biggest producer of baijiu
liquor by market value, gained 4.4 percent to 216.43 yuan, the
highest close since March 2008.  “Healthcare companies’ earnings are stable, regardless of
price controls or recession,” said Li Ying, an analyst at
Capital Securities Corp. in Shanghai. “Nothing could affect
demand for medicines.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  