-- China Steps Up Efforts to Allow Stock Sales by Foreign Firms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-29T05:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/china-steps-up-efforts-to-allow-stock-sales-by-foreign-firms.html
Chinese officials signaled the
country is getting closer to establishing a legal framework for
an international board that would allow foreign companies sell
shares on the nation’s exchanges.  The securities regulator is “actively studying” the
introduction of an international board, People’s Bank of China
Deputy Governor  Ma Delun  said today at a conference in Beijing.
“I can’t say when it will be pushed ahead,” he said. “I hope
it will be sooner because there is demand in the market and from
business circles.”  Regulators are stepping up efforts to resolve legal hurdles
for an international board,  Yao Gang , vice chairman of  China
Securities Regulatory Commission , said Nov. 27, according to the
official Shanghai Securities News.  HSBC Holdings Plc  is among international companies that
have expressed interest in selling stock in China once
regulations allow. China is the world’s busiest market for
initial public offerings this year, with 307 deals worth a
combined $64 billion priced, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sellers of first-time shares on the mainland may include
state-owned companies like  China Mobile Ltd.  that are
incorporated and traded in Hong Kong and have the bulk of their
operations in China, Shanghai Securities News said citing Yao.  In June, Yao told a forum in Shanghai that the
international board “faces legal and jurisdictional issues”
and “no time table has been set” for introducing it.  Establishing a mechanism for allowing overseas companies to
sell stock in China would help the country reduce excess
liquidity, Zhang Monan, a researcher at the State Information
Center, wrote in a commentary published in the Securities Times
newspaper on Nov. 17.  -- Eva Woo , with assistance from  Yanping Li  in Beijing. Editors:
 Philip Lagerkranser ,  James Gunsalus   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva Woo  in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  