-- Chongqing Rural Bank Seeks $1.55 Billion in IPO as Hong Kong Stocks Slide
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2010-11-29T03:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/chongqing-rural-bank-to-seek-as-much-as-1-55-billion-in-ipo-in-hong-kong.html
Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank , the
largest lender to agricultural and small businesses in China’s
most populous city, is seeking as much as $1.55 billion in an
initial public offering in Hong Kong.  The bank, based in the southwestern city of Chongqing, is
offering 2 billion shares at HK$4.50 to HK$6.00 each, according
to a term sheet sent to investors.  Chongqing Bank’s planned sale contrasts with Bluestar
Adisseo Nutrition Group and China Datang Corp., which last week
postponed offerings amid falling share prices. The benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  has slumped more than 8 percent from this year’s
Nov. 8 peak after China stepped up measures to contain  inflation 
and Ireland accepted a European Union-led bailout.  Hong Kong IPOs have raised a record $49 billion this year,
with companies including Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and AIA
Group Ltd. selling stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Chongqing Bank’s sale, if priced at the top end of
the range, would make it the fifth largest in the city this year,
Bloomberg data show.  Morgan Stanley is among the banks handling the sale.  Chongqing Bank, the ninth Chinese bank to list in Hong Kong,
was established in June 2008 after the government merged the
rural cooperatives in the region. The bank, with about 1,800
outlets and 14,000 employees, had more than 200 billion yuan of
assets by the end of 2009, according to its Web site.  Last week, Bluestar Adisseo withdrew plans for an initial
share sale and China Datang delayed its offering. The sales were
set to raise a combined total of as much as $2.6 billion.  -- Luo Jun . Editor:  Russell Ward   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  