-- Commercial Property Vacancy Near Peak as U.S. Economy Grows, Realtors Say
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-11-29T16:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/commercial-property-vacancies-in-u-s-near-peak-realtors-association-says.html
U.S. commercial property vacancies
may have peaked, led by a rebound in apartment buildings, as an
improving economy spurs more demand for space, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  “The basic fundamental of rising commercial leasing
demand, resulting from a steadily improving economy, means
overall vacancy rates have already peaked or will soon top
out,”  Lawrence Yun , chief economist of the real estate group,
said in a statement today. “Multifamily housing is the one
commercial sector that has held on relatively well in the past
year, and can expect the best performance in 2011.”  U.S. gross domestic product grew by 2.5 percent in the
third quarter, more than a previous estimate of 2 percent, the
Commerce Department said last week. An improving economy
increases commercial real estate occupancies as employers expand
their businesses and add jobs.  The vacancy rate for apartment buildings will decline to
5.8 percent by the end of next year from 6.4 percent in the
current quarter, according to the Realtors group’s forecast.
Apartment rents may increase 1 percent to 2 percent in 2011,
after no growth this year, Yun said in the statement.  The Realtors association predicts office vacancy rates will
fall to 16.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 from 16.7
percent at the end of 2010. Industrial vacancies may drop to
13.2 percent from 13.9 percent.  Retail Little Changed  Retail space may have the smallest decline in vacancies,
with the rate slipping to 13 percent at the end of 2011 from
13.1 percent this quarter, the group said.  U.S. commercial real estate is showing signs of recovery as
delinquencies on commercial mortgage-backed securities rise at a
slower pace, Standard & Poor’s said in a statement today. The
delinquency rate on loans packaged and sold as bonds climbed 3
percent in the third quarter, compared with a 14 percent
increase in the second quarter and a 30 percent jump in the
first three months of the year, Standard & Poor’s said Nov. 23.  “Property fundamentals are improving, investment capital
is slowly flowing back into the sector, commercial mortgage
originations are increasing, and demand for CMBS issuance is
gaining traction,” Standard & Poor’s said in the report today.  U.S. commercial real estate prices gained 4.3 percent in
September from the previous month, the biggest increase in a
decade of records, Moody’s Investors Service said Nov. 22. The
 Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index  rose 0.3 percent
from a year earlier as a small number of high-priced deals drove
up values, Moody’s said. The measure had fallen to an eight-year
low in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 