-- Congo's Army Is Pillaging Country's Natural Resources, United Nations Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-11-29T18:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/congo-s-army-is-pillaging-country-s-natural-resources-united-nations-says.html
Democratic Republic of Congo’s army
has “criminal networks” that are pillaging resources and
jeopardizing security in the mineral-rich east of the country,
the United Nations said.  Some army officers, including the head of Congo’s ground
forces, are allegedly using operations against rebels as a
pretext to smuggle gold, tin ore and timber, the UN said in a
 report  published on its website today.  “Prioritization of personal economic interests” by these
officers “has undermined the capacity of the armed forces to
execute its mandate,” the UN said. The officers are running
“criminal networks” that have disrupted the chain of command,
hindered the fight against illegal armed groups and put civilian
lives at risk, it said.  For almost two years, Congo’s army has been involved in
operations against militias in the east. Cooperation with Uganda
and Rwanda aided progress against the groups by removing them
from mining sites and trade routes, the according to the report.
It recommended the Security Council expand the UN’s mandate for
its peacekeeping mission in the African nation to offer the army
support to investigate military involvement in mining.  Congo’s army is an amalgam of poorly-paid soldiers and ex-
rebels, many of whom retain ties to their former commanders.
Soldiers from a former rebel group run by General  Bosco Ntaganda , who is wanted by the International Criminal Court, are
now in control of most key mining areas in North and South Kivu
provinces, according to the report.  Mining Ban  In September, President  Joseph Kabila  banned mining from
North Kivu, South Kivu and Maniema provinces to root out “mafia
groups” that control the mineral trade there. General Gabriel
Amisi, the head of Congo’s ground forces, continues to smuggle
minerals from deposits under his control, according to the UN
report. The annual value of the gold trade from North and South
Kivu provinces is estimated at $160 million, with at least 80
percent of that smuggled, it said.  Last month, army head General Didier Etumba told Bloomberg
News that he would “hunt down any soldier” involved in the
mineral trade. “He would be arrested, whatever his rank,
whatever his grade, whatever his function,” Etumba said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 