-- England Has Ashes `Spring in Step' After Recovering to Draw Series Opener
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-29T14:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/cook-trott-rack-up-records-as-ashes-cricket-series-opener-ends-in-draw.html
For the first time in eight seasons,
Australia’s cricket team leaves its Brisbane stronghold without
a series lead. England captain  Andrew Strauss  says his team must
take advantage when the Ashes resumes later this week.  England snapped Australia’s record six-match winning run at
the Gabba yesterday by drawing the opening match in the best-of-
five contest, fighting back from a 221-run deficit to rack up a
record 517-1 in its second innings.  “There’ll be a spring in our step going to Adelaide,”
Strauss said a news conference last night. “But you’ve got to
transfer that onto the pitch. It’s all very well strutting
around a hotel lobby feeling good about yourself, you need to
make sure that turns into runs and wickets.”  Australia, seeking to regain the Ashes following last
year’s 2-1 loss in the U.K., had been the bookmakers’ favorite
to win the series opener after taking a 202-run lead into the
fourth day following a 307-run partnership between  Mike Hussey 
and  Brad Haddin . England’s top three batsmen responded by
hitting centuries and breaking a raft of records to put the run
chase out of the reach of Australia.  That forced bookmakers to change their odds, with the sides
both now 9-4 to win the second Test starting Dec. 3 at
Ladbrokes.com, a U.K. bookmaker.  They’re each now 11-8 to win the series. Australia had
been favored, at 10-11 before the start of play, with England at
13-8. A successful 8-pound bet on England before the series
began would have brought in 13 pounds, plus the original stake.  Home captain  Ricky Ponting  said Australia’s second innings
of 107-1 in 26 overs, when he struck an unbeaten 51 from 43
balls, had showed how difficult the traditionally seam-friendly
pitch had been for all the bowlers.  ‘Difficult Wicket’  “We have got a very proud record here,” Ponting said.
“But I’ve never played on a Gabba wicket like that in my whole
career. It was a difficult wicket to bowl on over the last
couple of days of this game.”  England opener  Alastair Cook  belted a career-best 235 not
out to break  Don Bradman ’s 78-year-old scoring record at the
Brisbane venue, while his unbroken 329-run partnership with
 Jonathan Trott  eclipsed England’s highest stand in Australia.  After putting on 188 runs for the opening wicket with
Strauss on day four, Cook combined with Trott to beat the 323-
run stand by Jack Hobbs and Wilfred Rhodes at Melbourne in 1911-
12. It was also the first time England’s top three batsmen made
centuries in an Ashes Test.  Trott struck a century against Australia for the second
straight match after scoring 119 on his debut at The Oval in
London 15 months ago to help England seal the 2009 series.  ‘Pretty Tired’  By the time Strauss declared before tea on the final day,
England had amassed its biggest second-innings total in
Australia, surpassing 475 at Melbourne in 1894-95.  “One for 500 is a pretty demanding scorecard, isn’t it,”
Ponting said. “It was hard work for our boys and they are
pretty tired right now. If we get a flat wicket in Adelaide
again we have to make sure we are a whole lot better than we
were in this game.”  Australia added fast bowlers Ryan Harris and Doug Bollinger
in a 13-man squad for Adelaide after failing to take 20 wickets
for the fourth straight Test.  Mitchell Johnson  went wicket-less
for the first time in his 39-Test career in Brisbane, posting
match figures of 0-170.  As holder of the Ashes, England only needs to draw the
best-of-five contest to keep the trophy. Last year’s series
victory in the U.K. came after Strauss’s team escaped with a
draw in the opening match in Cardiff, Wales.  “There was a lot of self-belief at the start of the
series, but everyone talks about the Brisbane Test and how
important it is,” Strauss said. “At the end of day three, it
wasn’t looking good for us. To come back in the match and draw
it, we’ve got a belief we can go on and win this series from
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Brisbane through the London newsroom at 
8601 or  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  