-- Copper Fluctuates as Equities Slide on Ireland Bailout Concern
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-11-29T13:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/copper-rises-as-equities-advance-following-bailout-for-ireland-zinc-gains.html
Copper fluctuated in New York and
London, paring a climb to a one-week high as equities retreated
after Ireland’s bailout failed to ease concern Europe’s most-
indebted nations will need further aid.  The MSCI World Index  of shares fell, erasing a climb of as
much as 0.6 percent. It had gained after European governments
agreed to offer Ireland an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion)
lifeline. Copper also dropped from the day’s highest prices as
the dollar rebounded, making metals priced in the currency more
expensive in terms of other monies.  “It is astounding that prices remain relatively
unimpressed by the strong dollar,” Commerzbank AG analysts
including  Carsten Fritsch  wrote in a report today. “Should the
relationship between commodity prices and the U.S. currency
become firmer again, this will generally weigh on commodity
prices.”  Copper for delivery in March added 1.85 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $3.781 a pound at 8:36 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices rose as much as 1.2 percent to $3.8095, the highest
level since Nov. 22, and slid as much as 1.4 percent. Copper for
delivery in three months climbed 0.7 percent to $8,296 a metric
ton on the London Metal Exchange.  Crisis Containment  The Irish aid package and the dilution of proposals to
force bondholders to bear some cost of future bailouts were not
enough to assure investors today that the crisis is now
contained. The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, added as much as 0.5 percent after gaining
for a third week last week.  Copper gained as Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest
mining company, said the metal is among those for which demand
will double over the coming 15 to 20 years. Increasing
modernization of developing nations will drive usage, Tom
Albanese, Rio’s chief executive officer, said at an investor
seminar in Sydney.  “All the signs are that underlying dynamics in commodities
markets are still very healthy and that price dips represent
buying opportunities,” Barclays Capital analysts  Kevin Norrish 
and  Roxana Mohammadian Molina  said in a report today.  Copper advanced to a record $8,966 a ton on Nov. 11. Prices
slid last week for a third straight week on a stronger dollar
and concern that demand might weaken as China, the world’s
largest user of the metal, moves to curb inflation.  ‘Relief Rally’  “We probably won’t make new highs on copper until next
year, but a relief rally to $8,600-$8,700 seems possible,” said
 Jesper Dannesboe , a strategist at Societe Generale SA in London.  Immediate-delivery LME copper’s premium to the three-month
contract rose 10 percent to $53 a ton today. Prices moved on
Nov. 8 to a so-called backwardation, when nearby metal trades
above longer-dated contracts, potentially indicating concern
about near-term supply.  Aluminum for three-month delivery on the LME rose 0.5
percent to $2,281 a ton. China sold all the aluminum ingots
offered from the state reserve at below-market prices, the
National Development and Reform Commission said today on its
website.  Tin gained 0.4 percent to $24,300 a ton. Prices reached a
record $27,500 on Nov. 9. The metal has jumped 43 percent this
year, leading advances on the exchange, after production was
disrupted in Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.  Nickel climbed 1.2 percent to $22,820 a ton, lead was
little changed at $2,281 a ton and zinc advanced 1.1 percent to
$2,128 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 