-- Portugal, Spain Credit-Default Swaps Soar to Records Amid Bailout Concerns
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-11-29T16:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against default
on Portuguese and Spanish government debt soared to record-high
levels as an aid package for Ireland failed to reassure
investors the region’s debt crisis will be contained.  Credit-default swaps on Portugal jumped 37 basis points to
539, and contracts on Spain climbed 28.75 to 351.5, according to
CMA. The  Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index  of swaps on 15
governments increased 9 basis points to 197, a record based on
closing prices.  European stocks fell, extending losses into a fourth week,
and bonds dropped as Ireland’s 85 billion-euro ($113 billion)
bailout brought focus on the prospect of more aid to indebted
nations. The region’s economy may weaken next year as budget
cuts to stem the crisis hurt consumer demand and faltering
global expansion curbs exports, the European Commission said.  “The market seems to think it’s inevitable Portugal
requests assistance next -- perhaps in January? -- and then
after that Spain will be scrutinized with a fine tooth comb over
the coming months,” said  Jim Reid , head of fundamental strategy
at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  Swaps on Italy rose 28 basis points to 244, the highest
level in almost six months, as the nation’s borrowing costs
increased at a sale of 6.8 billion euros of bonds.  The cost of insuring the subordinated bonds of European
banks also rose as investors bet Ireland’s precedent for making
junior bondholders share the cost of a rescue will be followed.
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  told state broadcaster RTE the
government needs to impose “big haircuts” on junior
bondholders after the bailout.  Financial Swaps  The  Markit iTraxx Financial Index  of swaps on the junior
debt of 25 European banks and insurers soared 16.5 basis points
to 294.5, after earlier rising to the highest level since April
2009, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The senior index was up
1 at 165, after earlier falling as much as 9 basis points.  Swaps on the senior debt of Ireland’s banks fell after the
government repeated its pledge those bondholders won’t lose
money. Contracts insuring 10 million euros of Allied Irish Banks
Plc debt for five years dropped 6.75 percentage points to 18
percent, or 1.8 million euros, in advance and 5 percent
annually.  Swaps on Ireland increased 5.5 basis points to 604 and
Greece, which was bailed out earlier this year, dropped 10 basis
points to 962, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  