-- Coty Agrees to Acquire Nail-Polish Maker OPI Products to Expand in Salons
-- B y   J e f f   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-11-29T18:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/coty-agrees-to-acquire-nail-polish-maker-opi-products-to-expand-in-salons.html
Coty Inc., the seller of perfumes by
 Sarah Jessica Parker  and  Vera Wang , agreed to buy nail-care
company  OPI Products Inc. , gaining a portfolio with more than
200 shades and expanding into professional salons.  The companies didn’t disclose the terms of the deal in a
statement today. New York-based Coty is paying about $1 billion
in cash, two people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  OPI, founded almost three decades ago by Chief Executive
Officer George Schaeffer, sells polish used in nail salons,
hand- and foot-care products and body lotion. Coty has bolstered
its cosmetics business with acquisitions this month, agreeing to
buy skin-care maker Philosophy and Dr. Scheller Cosmetics AG.  The acquisition of Phoenix-based Philosophy forms part of a
strategy to increase sales of luxury skincare and fragrances,
particularly in the U.S. and Asia. Coty is aiming to almost
double sales to about $7 billion by 2015. The company reported
revenue of about $3.6 billion in the financial year ended in
June. Its luxury business has revenue of about $1.7 billion,
about half of which comes from Europe, according to  Michele Scannavini , head of the prestige unit.  Moelis & Co. served as financial adviser to Coty in the
current deal, while Lazard Ltd. advised North Hollywood,
California-based OPI. Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP provided legal
counsel to Coty and Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom did the
same for OPI.  Philosophy Purchase  Coty announced on Nov. 23 that it will buy Philosophy from
private-equity firm Carlyle Group, without disclosing the terms.
Less than two weeks before that, it agreed to purchase Dr.
Scheller Cosmetics from Russia’s OAO Concern Kalina. Coty
acquired Unilever Cosmetics International in 2005 for 632.6
million euros ($860.6 million).  OPI has annual sales of about $300 million and earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about
$80 million, people familiar with the matter said last month.
Coty distributes perfumes such as “Lovely” from Parker, star
of “Sex and the City,” and “Princess” from designer Wang.  The acquisition would value OPI at 12.5 times its earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. During
the past five years, there have been 277 deals involving
cosmetics companies worldwide, which sold for a median multiple
of 13 times EBITDA, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This is at least the second acquisition of a nail-care
company this year. In April,  L’Oreal SA  agreed to buy Essie
Cosmetics to expand in the U.S. nail-color market. Terms weren’t
disclosed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  