-- Credit-Default Swaps Rise to Five-Week High After Irish Bailout
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-11-29T22:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/credit-default-swaps-rise-to-five-week-high-on-concern-over-irish-bailout.html
The cost of protecting bonds from
default in the U.S. climbed to the highest level in more than
five weeks as investors speculated Ireland’s aid package may not
stem Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.4 basis points to a
mid-price of 96.9 basis points as of 5:36 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Swaps on
ConAgra Foods Inc. led gains in food companies after a group of
private-equity firms agreed to buy  Del Monte Foods Co. , sparking
speculation by traders and analysts on other takeover targets.  “The sovereign situation is still the dominant story here,
even though it’s more of an indirect effect,” said  Michael Reiner , a New York-based credit strategist with Societe Generale
SA. “It’s the fear trade.”  Ireland, swamped by the bursting of a decade-long real-
estate bubble and unemployment approaching 14 percent, became
the second country after Greece to tap European assistance.
Italy’s borrowing costs rose, signaling investors believe more
aid will be required for Europe’s indebted nations,
overshadowing figures from the National Retail Federation that
showed shoppers in the U.S. spent 6.4 percent more than last
year over the holiday weekend.  The Markit index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, is at the
highest since Oct. 21, when it reached 97, Markit data show. It
rose 5.8 basis points last week.  Healthy Choice  Contracts on Goldman Sachs Group Inc. climbed 2.7 basis
points to 146.6, CMA data show. Swaps on Bank of America Corp.
added 2.7 basis points to 195.6 and those on Morgan Stanley
increased 2.4 basis points to 185.8, the data show.  The cost to protect the bonds of ConAgra Foods jumped 9.9
basis points to 106.8, the highest level since December 2008,
CMA data show. The maker of Banquet and Healthy Choice dinners
is cheap enough to be a possible takeover target, according to a
report by Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Management doesn’t sound like it is weighing the LBO
option very seriously, but CEO  Gary Rodkin  does sound frustrated
with the company’s stock,”  Robert Moskow , a Credit Suisse AG
analyst in New York, said in the report dated today. “An LBO
may be his best end-game in a limited set of options.”  The  shares  of Omaha, Nebraska-based ConAgra rose 15 cents,
or 0.7 percent, to $21.77.  The report also named  Tyson Foods Inc.  and Sara Lee Corp. as
candidates after the “successful private equity bid” for Del
Monte, Moskow wrote. Contracts on Springdale, Arizona-based
Tyson Foods increased 4.3 basis points to 195.5 and those on
Sara Lee, in Downers Grove, Illinois, gained 0.1 basis point to
123.3, CMA data show.  ‘Strong Brands’  “Food companies in general are well-suited for leveraged
deals because they have strong brands that generate stable cash
flow and strong operating margins,” Moskow said, estimating
each of the three could provide a five-year annual return of 19
percent or more to an acquirer.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors and obtain
debt to finance takeovers with the intention of selling the
companies later for a profit. Firms focus on the cash flow of
their targets because they use it to service their debts.  KKR  & Co., Vestar Capital Partners and Centerview Partners
will pay $19 a share in a cash transaction, San Francisco-based
 Del Monte  said in a Nov. 25 statement. The buyers will assume
about $1.3 billion in debt. The deal will likely close in March,
unless Del Monte finds a better offer before Jan. 8, according
to the statement.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  