-- Crude Oil Increases to the Highest Level in Two Weeks on U.S. Retail Sales
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-11-29T21:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/crude-oil-increases-to-a-two-week-high-on-u-s-retail-sales-irish-bailout.html
Oil rose to a two-week high as U.S.
consumers spent more over the Thanksgiving weekend than last
year, a sign confidence in the economy is strengthening.  Oil climbed above $85 a barrel as the average U.S. shopper
increased purchases by 6.4 percent from the 2009 period, a
report from the National Retail Federation showed. Crude also
advanced amid speculation that colder-than-normal weather may
boost demand for heating fuel in the eastern U.S. and Europe.  “People are looking at a pretty decent retail environment,
and that’s giving oil a boost,” said  Michael Lynch , president
of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. “Cold weather is more bullish earlier in the
season than later. If people turn on their heaters early and
they stay on, that’s good for the season.”  Oil for January delivery climbed $1.97, or 2.4 percent, to
$85.73 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement since Nov. 11. Futures have gained 13 percent in the
past year.  Brent crude for January settlement rose $1.76, or 2.1
percent, to $87.34 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London.  About 212 million shoppers went to stores and websites over
the holiday weekend in the U.S., on average spending $365.34,
the Washington-based National Retail Federation reported.  Temperatures in the eastern half of the U.S. will be below
normal from Dec. 7 to Dec. 13, according to a forecast issued
today by the U.S.  Climate Prediction Center  in Camp Springs,
Maryland.  Distillate Demand  U.S.  consumption of distillate fuel , which includes heating
oil and diesel, rose 0.6 percent to 3.8 million barrels a day in
the week ended Nov. 19, up 3.9 percent from a year earlier, the
Energy Department reported on Nov. 24.  Distillate supplies probably fell for a 10th time last week
as demand increased, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Stockpiles
dropped 1.1 million barrels in the seven days ended Nov. 26 from
158.3 million, according to the median of 11 analyst estimates
before the department’s report tomorrow. Oil supplies probably
decreased 900,000 barrels from 358.6 million.  Temperatures in Paris will be as low as minus 5 degrees
Celsius (23 Fahrenheit) tomorrow, compared with an average
minimum of 4 for this time of year, according to CustomWeather
Inc. London temperatures may decline to minus 6 on Dec. 3.  “We’re having the coldest November in 25 or 30 years, so
people are burning more oil,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior
broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in London.  $100 Options  Traders are increasing bets that oil will reach $100 next
year on signs of falling inventories and a reduction in spare
output capacity.  The price of options to buy December 2011 futures at $100 a
barrel jumped 14 percent on Nov. 24, the largest one-day gain in
three months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. So-called
 open interest  for the contract has risen 51 percent this year to
45,424 lots, the highest for any crude option on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  Oil also increased as European finance chiefs agreed to an
85 billion-euro ($113 billion) bailout package for Ireland and
after embassy cables posted by  Wikileaks.org  showed Iran
obtained 19 advanced missiles from North Korea.  The missiles potentially give Iran the capability of
attacking Moscow and cities in Western Europe, according to the
New York Times, which received advance copies from Wikileaks.  The Guardian received advance copies that show Saudi Arabia
and other Arab governments pressed the U.S. for attacks on Iran
as early as 2008 to stop it from getting a nuclear bomb.  Iran  “If anybody gets into a confrontation with Iran over the
nuclear program, a military event of some type, it’s going to
create havoc in the energy markets,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief
energy economist at Deutsche Bank in Washington. The memos
indicated “that they’re not just the usual suspects of the U.S.
and Israel that are worried about what’s going on in Iran.”  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said the information
posted by Wikileaks is “psychological warfare” by the U.S., in
a speech in Tehran aired live by state television. “Our
relations with Arab countries and our neighbors are very good.”  Saudi Arabia and Iran are the two largest oil producers in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, together
accounting for 41 percent of the group’s output in October,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  Some analysts say the Wikileaks information isn’t affecting
oil prices.  “Of all the factors that impacted the oil market, the
Wikileaks is the least significant,” said  Edward Morse , head of
commodities research at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York and a
former deputy assistant secretary of state for international
energy policy. “There’s political embarrassment, but I wouldn’t
really call it geopolitical risk.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 481,521
contracts as of 3:25 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 271,643
contracts Nov. 26, 62 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.33 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 