-- Cushman & Wakefield to Boost Asia Headcount as Market Activity Increases
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-11-29T21:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/cushman-wakefield-to-increase-asia-headcount-as-property-activity-grows.html
Cushman & Wakefield Inc., the
world’s largest privately held real estate services company,
plans to increase the headcount of its Asian brokerage and
research teams to tap growing property activity in the region.  The firm will add between 10 and 15 people to the 25-staff
regional research team over the next 18 months, said  Sigrid Zialcita , Singapore-based managing director for Asia-Pacific
research.  “We’re expanding to make sure both our core markets and
the ones with growth potential are all being covered,” Zialcita
said in a Nov. 26 interview. She expects overall investment in
regional real estate to rise as much as 15 percent this year.  Direct real estate investment in Asia doubled to $46
billion in the first nine months of 2010 and may reach $60
billion for the full year, as uncertainty over the European
sovereign debt crisis abated and Asian currencies strengthened
against the dollar, CB Richard Ellis Group Inc., the world’s
biggest commercial real estate brokerage, said this month.  Cushman, which has offices in 13 Asia-Pacific countries,
will also expand its brokerage team in the region by 5 percent
to 10 percent over the next 18 months, mostly in Greater China
and Southeast Asia, Zialcita said. She declined to provide the
team’s current headcount.  Office rents in Asian cities such as Hong Kong and
Singapore are recovering from the global credit crisis as
financial service firms including  Citigroup Inc.  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc  resumed expansion in the region. Citigroup is
looking to almost triple its workforce in China to as many as
12,000 people in the next three years, the bank said in August.  Rising Rents  Store rents in the region are also picking up. Tokyo and
Seoul have both moved up in a Cushman & Wakefield’s annual
survey of the world’s most expensive store rents published in
September.  Asia-Pacific accounts for four of the top 10 locations in
the survey, with Hong Kong’s Causeway Bay ranking second and
Tokyo’s Ginza district third, behind New York’s Fifth Avenue.  Zialcita was speaking at the sidelines of a conference
organized by Samsung Securities Ltd. in Guangzhou.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  