-- Defaults on U.S. Commercial Mortgages Held by Banks Rose in Third Quarter
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2010-11-29T19:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/defaults-on-u-s-commercial-mortgages-held-by-banks-rose-in-third-quarter.html
Defaults on commercial property
mortgages held by U.S. banks rose in the third quarter,
extending a pattern begun in late 2006 when real estate prices
were close to a peak, said  Real Capital Analytics Inc.   About $604.1 million of loans on office buildings, malls,
hotels and other commercial properties went into default in the
three months ended Sept. 30, pushing the default rate to 4.36
percent of outstanding loan balances, from 3.41 percent a year
earlier and 4.27 percent at midyear, the New York-based real
estate research firm said. The record default rate was 4.55
percent in 1992, according to Real Capital.  “While the default rate continues to trend higher, the
most recent increase is the second smallest in three years,”
 Sam Chandan , global chief economist at Real Capital, said in the
report. “Even though new defaults are moderating, banks have
considerable challenges in drawing down the pool of unresolved
distress.”  The global credit crunch and plunge in property values have
prevented borrowers from refinancing while job losses have
reduced rental demand. Property prices are starting to recover
in many markets, easing the strain on banks, Chandan said.  Defaults on apartment-building mortgages rose to a record
4.67 percent, from 3.6 percent a year earlier and 4.13 percent
at midyear, as $1.2 billion of  apartment  mortgages went into
default, Real Capital said. The previous high for apartment
defaults was 4.63 percent in the first quarter.  Property Prices Rise  U.S. commercial property prices rose 4.3 percent in
September from the previous month as demand rose for the best
office buildings in such major markets as New York and
Washington, Moody’s Investors Service said on Nov. 22. The
Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price  Index  had fallen to an
eight-year low in August.  Renewed sales of commercial mortgage-backed securities are
helping banks clear loans from their books, Chandan said.  Banks reduced their commercial-mortgage holdings by $8.8
billion in the third quarter and by $18.5 billion so far this
year, Real Capital said. Banks hold about $1.07 trillion of
commercial mortgages and $215.8 billion of apartment mortgages.  A total of $46.8 billion of commercial mortgages and $10.1
billion of apartment mortgages are now in default, according to
Real Capital. For a loan to be considered to be in default, it
must be past due by 90 days or more or in non-accrual status,
meaning the bank doesn’t expect to make a full recovery on it.  Real Capital bases its analysis on bank filings and data
from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  