-- Default Is Dirty Word to America's Willing and Able: Joe Mysak
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2010-11-29T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/default-is-dirty-word-to-america-s-willing-able-commentary-by-joe-mysak.html
Municipal bond defaults are down.  There were 72 issues totaling $2.5 billion in default in
the year through November, according to  Richard Lehmann  of the
Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter. That’s down from 204
issues totaling $7.3 billion for all of last year, and from the
record of 162 issues totaling $8.2 billion for 2008.  Municipal bankruptcies are down. There have been five
Chapter 9 filings so far this year, down from 10 in 2009,
according to  James Spiotto , a partner at law firm Chapman &
Cutler LLP in Chicago.  Surprised? I was. What is the municipal market telling us?  This: The governmental entities that make up most of the
market are doing everything they can to repay their debts.  Their ability to pay may have been compromised by the
recession. Their willingness to pay is as strong as ever, and
that’s what counts when tax revenue falls. The nation’s states
and municipalities have been cutting costs, firing employees and
raising taxes and fees in order to honor their commitments.  That should be reassuring to bondholders and all those
investors who have been thinking about buying municipals, and
who have been barraged by speculation for the past two years
that the market is on the verge of collapse.  Last to Go  To be sure, the federal government’s economic stimulus has
helped. Most of that money remained with the states, where you
shouldn’t look for defaults. None of the 50 has reneged on debt
since Arkansas did so during the Great Depression.  Why? The results -- being shut out of the credit markets --
would be catastrophic. And, as a November report by Fitch
Ratings said: “Debt service is a relatively small part of most
budgets, so not paying it does not do much to solve fiscal
problems.” States don’t even think about defaulting on bonds.  The nation’s cities and towns have been doing the cutting,
and paying their bills (as well as their debt service). This is
borne out by statistics on headcount. Since August 2008,  states 
have fired 39,000 employees, or 0.7 percent of the 5.2 million
they carried at the peak.  Localities , on the other hand, have fired 368,000 workers,
or 2.5 percent of their peak number of employees, also reached
in August 2008. By comparison, companies fired 8.5 million, or
7.3 percent of the 115.6 million they employed in December 2007.
They have since hired 1.1 million, according to the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  It’s Called Governing  Remember, the last thing that local and state governments
do is fire people. They exhaust every possibility before that
step. Anyone who says government officials haven’t done anything
to address their budget (and pension) problems, or that they’re
just a bunch of feckless rubes, would be wrong.  The people who have bruited about this business of the
imminent implosion of the municipal market are bad enough. Worse
are those who have advocated that cities and towns should
default on their debts and then embrace bankruptcy to avoid
having to make the hard choices (like firing people, and raising
taxes, and sitting down with labor unions to renegotiate pension
and other retirement benefits) that go with governing.  Call me old school. I still think it’s a good idea to try
and muddle through with all the incremental moves and
compromises and givebacks that the process entails. Paying one’s
debts is the right thing to do.  Very Bad Words  Default and repudiation are very bad words in the municipal
market today. They are the reason for the creation of the bond
counsel industry in the late 19th century, and why in the 20th
such things as outright, mass repudiation became all but
nonexistent. Bond lawyers ensure that the borrowing done by
states, cities and towns is valid and complies with tax law. Put
another way, it’s a lot harder now for municipalities to run out
on their debts than it was in the 19th century.  As for Chapter 9, it’s not an easy out. For one thing,
states can’t enter bankruptcy; 26 of them even prohibit their
municipalities from filing. And the states that allow for
municipal bankruptcy discourage its use.  The  market  right now is awash in inexpert testimony, the
opinions of analysts who may know how to analyze stocks, but who
are confounded by munis. It’s a big mistake to think about
municipals in terms of equities, and to talk about them that way
as well.  ( Joe Mysak  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  