-- U.S. House Backs One-Month Delay of Reduction in Doctor Pay Under Medicare
-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 2010-11-29T20:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/delay-of-doctors-23-medicare-pay-cut-for-1-month-approved-by-u-s-house.html
A one-month delay of a planned 23
percent reduction in doctors’ Medicare pay rates was approved by
the U.S. House of Representatives, providing more time for
lawmakers seeking to hold off future cuts.  Medicare, the U.S. government health-insurance program for
the elderly and disabled, has cost control formulas that demand
the rate cuts. The House voted today to postpone the reduction
until Jan. 1 from Dec. 1, clearing the way for President  Barack Obama  to sign legislation that passed the Senate Nov. 18.  The one-month postponement will cost $1 billion, paid for
with savings from planned cuts in Medicare reimbursement for
therapy services, according to an agreement struck by Senator
 Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who chairs the Senate Finance
Committee, and Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, the committee’s
senior Republican.  “This short-term delay helps ensure that physicians can
continue to care for seniors for the next month,”  Cecil Wilson ,
president of the Chicago-based American Medical Association,
said in an e-mail.  Physicians may  withdraw  from Medicare if the scheduled cuts
are imposed, the doctors’ group said in a Nov. 15 statement.  The formula that governs  doctor payment rates  began calling
for cuts in 2002, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
In 2003, Congress stepped in and blocked the annual pay
reduction. Since then, lawmakers each year have stopped the
planned rate cuts. The American Medical Association is among the
groups that want Congress to create an  alternative formula  to
replace the current system.  Physician Payments  Medicare covers about 46.6 million people, according to the
 Kaiser Family Foundation , a nonprofit research group based in
Menlo Park, California. Payments for physician services will
account for 13 percent of the $509 billion the program will
spend on medical benefits this year, according to the
foundation’s  analysis  of U.S. government projections.  The formula that determines how much Medicare pays doctors
is designed to reduce total spending from year to year by
linking rates to overall economic growth. The scheduled fee cuts
have climbed to 23 percent from the proposed 4.8 percent
reduction in 2002. Delaying next year’s cut until 2012 would
cost taxpayers at least $15.4 billion, the Congressional Budget
Office  estimated  in April.  Obama supports postponing the physician fee cut until 2012
and enacting a new method of setting rates, Health and Human
Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius   said  Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Young  in Washington at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 