-- Diamondback Places One on Leave, Says It Isn't Probe's Target
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-11-29T21:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/diamondback-places-one-employee-on-leave-says-it-isn-t-target-of-probe.html
Diamondback Capital Management LLC,
among the hedge funds searched by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation last week, said the raid was focused on one of its
portfolio managers, who was put on leave.  The firm, based in Stamford, Connecticut, said it was told
by the government that it is not the target of the probe,
according to a letter sent today to investors. Diamondback was
served a search warrant on Nov. 22 and received a grand jury
subpoena last week, it said in the letter.  “The warrant appears to be focused on a single employee (a
portfolio manager), as well as on a former employee who reported
to that employee,” Diamondback co-founders  Lawrence Sapanski 
and  Rich Schimel  said in the letter, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Hedge funds Level Global Investors LP and Loch Capital
Management also had their offices raided by U.S. officials on
Nov. 22. Janus Capital Group Inc. and Wellington Management Co.
were among firms that received information requests last week as
part of the government’s insider-trading investigation.  Don Ching Trang Chu, an employee of expert-network firm
Primary Global Research LLC in Mountain View, California, was
arrested on Nov. 24 for allegedly providing insider information
to hedge funds. Chu had a roster of Asia-based employees of
North American technology companies to feed information to
clients, according to court documents.  Diamondback, which oversees about $5.8 billion in assets,
said several of its 135 investment professionals use industry
research consultants. The firm has a written policy and set of
procedures designed to avoid having any employee receive or
misuse material nonpublic information when using research
consultants, according to the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  