-- Dollar Trades Near Two-Month High on Europe Debt, Korea Conflict Concerns
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-29T07:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/dollar-advances-versus-euro-as-noyer-says-low-rates-may-cause-imbalances.html
The dollar traded near a two-month
high against the euro amid speculation more European nations
will join Ireland in receiving bailouts and as tensions between
North and South Korea escalated.  The euro weakened against 11 of its 16 major peers after
European Central Bank council member  Christian Noyer  said
monetary easing creates the potential for global imbalances. The
dollar was supported as South Korean President Lee Myung Bak
vowed to make the North pay for military attacks. Thailand’s
baht reached an eight-week low before a court decision that may
force the ruling Democrat party to disband.  “Noyer’s remarks on low rates and worldwide imbalances
seem to be causing some selling of the euro and buying of the
dollar,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at
Okasan Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Worries over contagion in
Europe from Ireland’s woes also remain.”  The dollar traded at $1.3238 per euro as of 6:51 a.m. in
London from $1.3242 in New York last week, after earlier
reaching $1.3182, the strongest since Sept. 21. The U.S.
currency was at 84.08 yen from 84.10 yen, after advancing to
84.20 yen, the highest since Sept. 28. The euro was at 111.29
yen from 111.37.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the dollar against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, was little
changed at 80.358, after touching 80.652, the strongest since
Sept. 21.  ‘Next Ireland’  European governments yesterday handed debt-strapped Ireland
an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package. Finance chiefs
ended crisis talks in Brussels by endorsing a Franco-German
compromise on post-2013 rescues that means investors won’t
automatically take losses to share the cost with taxpayers, a
plan proposed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel.  “Attention is shifting to the ‘next Ireland’ like Portugal
and Spain,” said  Yuki Sakasai , a currency strategist at
Barclays Bank Plc in Tokyo. “Europe’s problems will probably
continue, so people are looking to sell the euro.”  The ECB’s Noyer, who is also governor of the French central
bank, today called for an international effort to address
volatility in financial flows, saying individual efforts risk
displacing pressures without defusing them.  It’s “nonsense” to generalize current problems to all of
Europe, Noyer said in a press briefing after a speech in Tokyo.
Spain’s problems aren’t of the same magnitude as Ireland’s,
Noyer said, while in Portugal, “the situation is improving as
planned.”  The euro is headed for its first monthly decline since
August and its worst since May. European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  speaks tomorrow in
Brussels.  China Curbs  The cost of insuring Portuguese, Irish and Spanish
government debt against default rose to a record last week and
the 10-year bond yields of those nations, Italy and Greece
averaged more than 7.5 percent, a euro-era record.  China should continue to control capital flows before
further widening the yuan trading band and letting the currency
attain market equilibrium,  Xia Bin , an adviser to the People’s
Bank of China, wrote in a commentary posted on China Business
News today.  The dollar is poised for its first monthly gain versus the
yen since April as concern military action on the Korean
peninsula will escalate underpinned demand for the relative
safety of the U.S. currency.  Yeonpyeong Island  Residents of South Korea’s Yeonpyeong island, where four
people died in the Nov. 23 shelling by the North, were ordered
to seek refuge in bomb shelters yesterday after an artillery
shot was heard, a defense ministry spokesman said.  South Korea’s navy yesterday began four days of maneuvers
with U.S. warships amid threats of a “merciless” response by
Kim Jong Il’s regime should the North’s maritime border be
breached.  “Geopolitical risks centering on the Korean peninsula are
likely to prevail early this week,” said  Yuji Saito , director
of the foreign-exchange department at Credit Agricole Corporate
and Investment Bank in Tokyo. “Given that Japan’s
geographically close, the yen may be sold while the dollar may
be bought as a safe-haven currency.”  Thailand’s baht fell against the dollar for a third day as
the Democrat party faces dissolution on charges that it misused
a 29 million baht ($956,833) grant from the Election Commission
for campaigning in the 2005 election.  The Constitutional Court is scheduled to hear closing
statements on the case today. The worst political violence in
almost two decades killed more than 89 people in April and May,
leading to a  sell-off  of Thai stocks that weakened the baht.  “This boosts concern among investors over Thailand’s
political situation once again and makes people risk averse,”
said  Hideki Hayashi , a global economist at Mizuho Securities Co.
in Tokyo. “People want to see how the situation develops.”  The baht reached 30.46 per dollar, the weakest level since
Sept. 30, before trading at 30.26.  To contact the reporters responsible for the story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 