-- Don't Fight `Better Informed' Fed on Bond Purchases, RBS's O'Donnell Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-29T20:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/don-t-fight-the-fed-on-bond-purchases-o-donnell-of-rbs-says.html
Investors should heed the views of
the Federal Reserve on the state of the economy and the need for
more debt purchases because “so far they have been right,”
according to  William O’Donnell  of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  “The Fed is better informed than anybody else,”
O’Donnell, a government bond strategist at the RBS Securities
unit, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene . “They see the picture; they are
concerned about it, about the disinflationary trend, and
obviously the pernicious nature of unemployment in this country.
They are tasked to do something about it and I cheer them on.”  The unemployment  rate  has remained near a 26-year high for
the past three months. Reports on Dec. 3 may show nonfarm
payrolls rose by 145,000 in November and an unemployment rate
unchanged at 9.6 percent, according to Bloomberg surveys.  The central bank announced Nov. 3 it will purchase an
additional $600 billion in Treasury securities to support growth
in the U.S. economy. In a statement issued in Washington that
day, the Federal Open Market Committee said it “will adjust the
program as needed to best foster maximum employment and price
stability.” The central bank also left the target rate for
overnight loans between banks at a record low range of zero to
0.25 percent, where it has been since December 2008.  “This rather vast and highly accomplished staff in
Washington exceeds anything else the Street can bring,”
O’Donnell said. “Go with the strength, go with the staff and go
with the Fed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  