-- Dubai Holding Said to Extend $555 Million Credit Line
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-11-29T11:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/dubai-holding-unit-said-to-seek-one-month-extension-on-555-million-loan.html
Dubai Holding Commercial Operations
Group LLC, a real estate and hospitality group owned by the
emirate’s ruler, is seeking a one-month extension on a $555
million revolving credit line to get more time to agree on new
terms, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The loan will be extended until Dec. 31 and then rolled
over into a new medium-term facility, the terms for which are
still under discussion, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. An official for Dubai
Holding LLC, the company’s parent, declined to comment.  Dubai Holding Commercial received a two-month extension on
the loan in July at “commercial terms,” the company said at
the time, and then got the maturity lengthened again to Nov. 30.
Citigroup Inc., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc provided the loan.  Some of Dubai’s state-controlled companies are struggling
to refinance debt with new loans after credit markets froze amid
the economic crisis. The emirate’s investment companies have
been hurt by a drop in asset prices across the world, while its
real estate companies have been hit by a more than 50 percent
drop in property prices.  Dubai Holding and its units owe banks $12 billion and have
begun talks to roll over some loans, a person with knowledge of
the matter said in May. Dubai International Capital LLC, an
investment unit of Dubai Holding has a $1.25 billion loan due
Nov. 30.  Government support  The Dubai government has injected $2 billion into Dubai
Holding over the last 12 months to support its restructuring,
 Mohammed Ibrahim al-Shaibani , director general of Dubai ruler’s
court said at a conference yesterday. A restructuring will be
completed “soon,”  Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum , chairman
of the Dubai Supreme Fiscal Committee, said at the conference.  Dubai Holding Commercial reported a  loss  of 22.8 billion
dirhams ($6.2 billion) for 2009, compared with a year-earlier
profit of 10 billion dirhams after property prices plunged in
the Persian Gulf’s trade and tourism hub. Dubai Holding
Commercial in June had its debt ratings cut by Moody’s Investors
Service from B1 to B2.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, reached an agreement with all its creditors
to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt, a person familiar
with knowledge of the matter said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net  