-- Dubai's Property Market Has Reached Bottom, Emaar Chairman Alabbar Says
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-29T09:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/dubai-property-market-has-reached-bottom-says-chair-of-biggest-developer.html
Dubai’s property market, which fell
more than 50 percent from its peak, has reached bottom and is
moving toward recovery, according to the chairman of the
shiekhdom’s biggest developer.  “There’s not much new supply coming in. The property
market has bottomed out without a doubt,”   Mohamed Alabbar ,
chairman of developer  Emaar Properties PJSC , said at the Arabian
Business Forum in Dubai today. “It’s not as good as it used to
be, but we’re moving in that direction.”  Alabbar’s view contrasts with analyst predictions that
Dubai property will continue to fall as new homes add to
oversupply and financing remains scarce. Prices may fall another
20 percent,  Ahmed Badr , a Dubai-based analysis for Credit Suisse
Group AG, said in September. Colliers International estimated in
May that 41,000 new homes would be put on the market by the end
of this year, pushing values down.  It will take Dubai 20 months to absorb the excess property
supply, Alabbar said earlier this month.  Emaar  plans to generate
50 percent of its income outside its home market in the next few
years, focusing on Syria, Lebanon, Algeria, Saudi Arabia and
Egypt. Currently, more than 80 percent of the developer’s
revenue is generated in Dubai.  “We don’t believe Mr. Alabbar is being too optimistic,”
 Majed Azzam , a real-estate analyst at AlembicHC in Dubai, said
by e-mail. “Distressed sellers seem to be out of the market and
financing is starting to pick up again, which is helping
stabilize prices.”  AlembicHC’s Dubai property price index is down 2 percent
this year, compared with 35 percent in 2009, Azzam said.
Mortgages were used in 40 percent of transactions in October, up
from 10 percent a year earlier, he said.  Done With Bonds  Emaar has no immediate plans to tap the bond market again
after raising $500 million last month from the sale of a five-
year convertible bond to help repay short-term debt, Alabbar
said.  Dubai may sell stakes in some companies to the public to
reduce debt as the sheikhdom alters loan terms and restructures
two of its main investment groups, Dubai World and Dubai Holding
LLC, Sheikh  Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum , chairman of the Dubai
Supreme Fiscal Committee, said yesterday.  Any decision on asset sales at Emaar will be based on the
company’s own strategy rather than the government’s
privatization efforts, Alabbar said today.  “For a company to grow, you either have to increase your
capital, take some entities and release them to the market or
increase your debt,” he said. “The future is about a
combination of all.”  Emaar last month reported a 7 percent drop in third-quarter
profit, missing analyst estimates, as costs doubled and the
company booked writedowns. Sales increased 43 percent.  Emaar shares are down 6.2 percent this year. The stock was
little changed at 3.62 dirhams as of 1:54 p.m. in Dubai today.
The Dubai Financial Market General Index has declined 7.3
percent since the beginning of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  