-- Dubai DIC Said to Seek 2-Month Extension on $1.25 Billion Loan
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-11-29T12:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/dubai-international-capital-said-to-seek-extension-on-1-25-billion-loan.html
Dubai International Capital LLC, an
investment company owned by the emirate’s ruler, sought a two-
month extension on a $1.25 billion loan maturing on Nov. 30, two
people with knowledge of the discussions said.  The loan continues to pay the same interest as earlier and
the extension will help  Dubai International’s  26 creditor banks
agree on new terms for $2.6 billion of debt that the company is
seeking to alter, the people said, declining to be identified
because the information is private. The loan, which was due to
mature in June, was extended to Sept. 30 and then to Nov. 30.  A company spokeswoman could not immediately comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News today.  Some of Dubai’s state-controlled companies are struggling
to refinance debt after credit markets froze amid the global
economic crisis. Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main
state-owned holding companies, reached an agreement with all its
creditors to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt, a person
familiar with knowledge of the matter said in October.  Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC, a real
estate and hospitality group owned by Dubai’s ruler  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum , is seeking a one-month extension
on a $555 million revolving credit line to get more time to
agree on new terms, two people with knowledge of the matter said
earlier today. Citigroup Inc., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and Standard Chartered Plc provided the loan.  New Terms  Dubai International is offering banks interest of 2 percent
on new loans as part of a $2.6 billion debt restructuring, two
people with knowledge of the talks said Nov. 23.  The company is also asking its creditor banks to extend
loan maturities to five to six years to allow asset prices to
recover, said the people, who declined to be identified as the
discussions are private. Lenders are in turn seeking a guarantee
from the government to make up any losses if money raised from
the sale of Dubai International’s assets isn’t sufficient to
repay the loan principal, the people said.  The Dubai government has injected $2 billion into Dubai
Holding over the last 12 months to support its restructuring,
 Mohammed Ibrahim al-Shaibani , director general of Dubai ruler’s
court said at a conference yesterday. A restructuring will be
completed “soon,”  Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum , chairman of
the Dubai Supreme Fiscal Committee, said at the conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  