-- Dubai's Malaysia Sukuk Sale Plan Hampered by Rating Doubt: Islamic Finance
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-11-29T12:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/dubai-s-malaysia-sukuk-sale-plan-hampered-by-rating-doubt-islamic-finance.html
Dubai’s proposed sale of as much as
$1.5 billion of Islamic bonds in Malaysia won’t appeal to most
local funds unless the emirate obtains a rating, Mashreq Capital
DIFC Ltd. and Nomura Asset Management Malaysia Sdn Bhd. said.  The government hired CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., a Kuala
Lumpur-based unit of  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. , the world’s top
sukuk arranger this year, as a lead manager to sell between $1
billion and $1.5 billion of the securities, a person with
knowledge of the plan said Nov. 24. Malaysian Prime Minister
 Najib Razak  said Oct. 26 the Dubai Department of Finance is
proposing a multi-currency sukuk program.  “I doubt they can get it done in any sort of size without
a rating,”  Abdul Kadir Hussain , who manages $2 billion of
mainly Persian Gulf assets as chief executive officer of Mashreq
Capital in Dubai, said in a response to e-mailed questions Nov.
25. “Normally Malaysian investors are relatively conservative
and invest in very high grade type issuers.”  Dubai is tapping international debt markets to raise funds
as the government and state-controlled companies grapple to
service borrowings that Barclays Capital estimated in a
September report at about $112 billion. The Persian Gulf’s
financial hub may sell shares in some of its large businesses,
 Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed   Al Maktoum , chairman of the Dubai Supreme
Fiscal Committee, said in the emirate yesterday.  The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk due November 2014
rose 1 basis point to 6.756 percent today, the highest level
since Nov. 17, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield
reached 10 percent on Feb. 15. The average yield on Islamic
notes sold by Gulf Cooperation Council issuers rose 11 basis
points last week to 5.84 percent on Nov. 26,  according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index.   Doesn’t Need Rating  Dubai doesn’t need a credit rating for now,  Mohammed Ibrahim al-Shaibani , director general of the Dubai Ruler’s
Court, said yesterday at the conference in Dubai. Abu Dhabi is
rated Aa2 at Moody’s Investors Service and AA at Standard &
Poor’s, the third-highest investment grade rankings. Malaysia is
rated A3 at Moody’s and A- at S&P, the seventh-highest ratings.  “If the sukuk issued in ringgit does not have a local
rating, definitely it will hurt demand,”  Shera Shah Shaharudin ,
a Kuala Lumpur-based fixed-income manager at Nomura Asset said
in a response to e-mailed questions Nov. 26. “Domestic
institutional investors with strict internal guidelines will not
be able to buy non-rated issues.”  The emirate’s sukuk plan is still being discussed and the
timing hasn’t been decided, the person, who asked not to be
identified as the details are private, said last week. Dubai
government officials’ trip to Malaysia was part of a plan to
meet investors and explore opportunities, the Dubai Department
of Finance said in an e-mailed response to questions Nov. 28.  ‘Conservative’ Investors  State-owned Dubai World in September reached an accord with
most of its creditors to restructure $24.9 billion of debt.
Dubai raised $1.25 billion from non-Islamic bond sales that
month in its first debt offering since the Dubai World credit
crisis roiled global markets last November. It received orders
of about $5 billion. The five-year, $500 million note was priced
to yield 6.7 percent and the $750 million, 10-year bond was
priced to yield 7.75 percent.  “I don’t think Dubai needs a credit rating as the Abu
Dhabi backstop is still behind them,”  Gabriel Sterne , London-
based economist at Exotix Ltd., an investment bank specializing
in illiquid bonds, equities and asset management, said in a
response to e-mailed questions Nov. 25. “If it’s priced around
8.3 percent for a 10-year bond, I think it would be a good
buy.”  Rating Rules  Foreign currency-denominated bonds sold by overseas issuers
in Malaysia don’t require a rating, the Kuala Lumpur-based
 Securities Commission  said in an e-mailed reply to questions
Nov. 26. Ringgit debt sold by foreign entities needs to be rated
unless the securities are convertible or non-tradable with the
agreement of the purchaser that a rating isn’t required, the
commission said.  Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in June 2015 fell
last week, driving the yield 11 basis points higher to 2.9
percent, according to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s
government sukuk rather than Malaysia’s widened one basis point
to 383, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Good Buy’  Sales of Islamic debt from the six-nation GCC dropped 40
percent to $4 billion so far this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. GCC sukuk returned 11.8 percent this
year, according to the HSBC/ NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk
Index . Bonds in developing markets returned 14.2 percent,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed
three basis points to 341 on Nov. 26 and has widened 31 basis
points since Sept. 30, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk
Index showed.  The U.A.E.’s central bank and Abu Dhabi stepped in last
year to support Dubai with $20 billion in loans. Dubai is “not
worried” about debt maturing in 2011,  Ahmad Humaid Al Tayer ,
governor of the Dubai International Financial Centre, said in
the emirate yesterday. Dubai is now on a sound financial
footing, Sheikh Ahmed said.  Ringgit History  Borrowers from the Gulf that have sold ringgit-denominated
bonds include  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC , the United Arab
Emirates’ third-biggest bank by assets, and  National Bank of Abu
Dhabi PJSC . Abu Dhabi Commercial issued 750 million ringgit
($238 million) of notes in August, while  National Bank  sold 500
million ringgit of Islamic bonds in June in its first offering
of debt in Malaysia.  Investors such as  Choo Swee Kee  of TA Investment Management
Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur and  Gerald Ambrose  of Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc’s Malaysian unit said they may buy Dubai’s bonds
if they are rated. Aberdeen’s global units oversee more than
$243 billion including Shariah-compliant funds.  “It really depends on the rating because you have to
assess the issue,” Choo, who manages about $202 million as
chief investment officer at TA Investment, said in a telephone
interview on Nov. 26. “If they are willing to pay 8 percent a
lot of people would rush in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net  and
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shanthy Nambiar at 
 snambiar1@bloomberg.net  