-- ECB's Noyer Urges International Effort to Address Capital-Flow Volatility
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-29T01:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/ecb-s-noyer-urges-international-effort-to-address-capital-flow-volatility.html
Banque de France Governor  Christian Noyer  called for an international effort to address volatility
in financial flows, saying a patchwork of individual efforts to
set capital controls risks displacing pressures without defusing
them.  Volatility is increasing in currencies and commodities, and
market shifts can exacerbate economic shocks, Noyer, a member of
the European Central Bank’s governing council, said in a speech
at a conference today in Tokyo. Responding to a question a day
after the European agreement to bail out Ireland, Noyer said the
region has dealt with the debt crisis with determination and
questions on the future of the euro are “totally” off the table.  Noyer’s proposal underscores the danger of a surge in
capital flows to emerging markets that policy makers are
concerned will spark asset bubbles. Nations have adopted
disparate steps to manage the risk, with South Korea embracing a
tax on foreigners’ investments in its bonds and Indonesia
favoring a lock-up period for overseas purchases of bills.  While one country can have an impact on an influx of
overseas capital through introducing controls, the risk is that
the money then flows elsewhere, putting pressure on other asset
markets, Noyer said. He said that global capital markets are
closely interlinked, and that some volatility may be induced by
policy makers.  Cause of Volatility  Monetary easing creates the potential for global imbalances,
the French central bank chief said, without specifying whether
the Federal Reserve’s plan to purchase $600 billion of Treasury
securities is one source of volatility.  Officials from nations ranging from Brazil to China have
said the Fed’s attempt to boost U.S. growth risks sparking flows
of capital to emerging markets that create asset bubbles. Noyer
said it’s not good for nations to challenge each others’
policies.  While the Group of 20 has begun a campaign to construct
global financial safety nets, there is doubt about the
consistency of the policy strategies of some of the world’s
largest economies, Noyer said. He said that countries should
disconnect the accumulation of record foreign-exchange reserves
from managing exchange rates.  China Reserves  China has built up a record stockpile of more than $2.6
trillion of reserves as it limited gains in its currency against
the dollar. U.S. officials and lawmakers have said the policy
provides an unfair trade advantage to Chinese exporters and have
called on faster gains in the yuan.  Noyer said that there is no reason to doubt the recovery
plans in place in Ireland and Greece. The two nations have each
won bailouts from European governments seeking to quell a crisis
in the sustainability of the debt of some of the euro-region
members.  European finance chiefs ended crisis talks in Brussels
yesterday with an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package for
Ireland.  Noyer said that the European economic recovery is “well on
track” and that the region’s overall public finances are in
better shape than many countries, including the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  