-- Winter Weather Grips U.K.; Snow Shuts Edinburgh Airport, Affects Aberdeen
-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-11-29T18:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/edinburgh-airport-closed-because-of-scottish-snowstorms-glasgow-is-open.html
The U.K.’s most widespread snowfall
in 17 years is causing disruption across the country, with
Edinburgh airport in Scotland partially open and passengers at
England’s Stansted and Southampton airports advised to contact
their airlines before travelling,  BAA Airports  Ltd. said.  Icy road conditions and heavy snow are expected to continue
in Scotland and Northern Ireland, the U.K.’s Met Office said in
a weather warning, with snow also forecast to affect many areas
of England, including London and the south east, which may see
as much as 8 centimeters of snow. The office issues weather
warnings when there is at least 80 percent confidence that
severe or extreme weather is expected.  “This is the most widespread snow since November 1993
across the country,” Helen Chivers, a forecaster working with
the  Met Office , said by phone. “This weather might last another
fortnight with temperatures staying very cold.”  Glasgow Airport is partially open following an earlier
closure, BAA said on its website. Aberdeen airport’s runway was
closed for around four hours this afternoon, according to posts
on the airport’s Twitter Inc.  account . RSA Insurance Group Plc,
the U.K.’s biggest non-life insurer by market value, estimates
the weather may cost the Scottish economy as much as 53 million
pounds ($83 million) a day if it continues to worsen in coming
weeks.  Temperatures in London are predicted to dip to minus 1
degree Celsius (30 degrees Fahrenheit) today, and reach a low of
minus 4 degrees by Dec. 1, according to Global Weather Platform.  The Met Office forecasts temperatures in north-west
Scotland as low as 4 degrees Celsius by 9 p.m. this evening
while temperatures in south-east England are expected to be
around zero degrees Celsius.  U.K. power for next-day delivery rose to its highest level
in 22 months as natural gas costs increased and the weather
conditions boosted demand.  National Grid Plc, the country’s gas and power network
manager, forecast demand will rise to 433 million cubic meters
at 6 a.m. tomorrow, 89 million more than normal for the time of
year. That’s the highest forecast since March 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Lawrence  in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  