-- Edison Plans to Renegotiate Supply Contracts, Purchase Azeri Gas in 2011
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2010-11-29T12:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/edison-plans-to-renegotiate-supply-contracts-purchase-azeri-gas-in-2011.html
Edison SpA , Italy’s second-largest
power generator, will renegotiate natural-gas supply contracts
next year and agree the purchase of fuel from Azerbaijan, Chief
Executive Officer  Umberto Quadrino  said.  “Our main goal is the renegotiation of gas procurement
contracts which will take place throughout the year, some right
away, others later because negotiations are not something to be
rushed,” Quadrino said in a telephone interview. “Once we have
a deal our results will see a sharp improvement.”  The Milan-based company, which uses gas in power generation
and supplies it direct to customers, posted a 54 percent decline
in third-quarter profit because of supply deals signed when oil
prices were higher. Edison’s suppliers include Russia, Algeria,
Libya, Norway and Qatar and European gas contracts are typically
linked to crude prices. Quadrino said changing the terms of
existing gas supply contracts and agreeing purchases from
Azerbaijan will set the scene for growth next year.  Negotiations for about 10 billion cubic meters of gas a
year from Azerbaijan are taking place in the next few days and
will likely lead to an accord by June, Quadrino said.  Energy companies want gas from the Caspian region to reduce
dependence on Russian supplies. Edison, Greek natural gas
supplier  Depa SA  and Ankara-based  Botas  are behind the
Interconnection Turkey Greece Italy, or ITGI, pipeline project
designed to bring Azeri gas to Europe through Turkey and Greece.  Edison, which recently reached the 1 million customer mark,
will continue to work on increasing clients in 2011 and plans to
achieve its goals of 2 million clients by 2012 and 3 million by
2014, Quadrino said.  “There are 28 million families in Italy, there is enormous
potential to wean them away from the old monopolist,” he said,
referring to Enel SpA. “Growth in electricity demand is slow
but we need to remember there was a 6 percent slump in 2009.
We’ll likely have 1.5 percent growth in 2010 and between 1
percent and 1.5 percent next year.”  Edison has 12,300 megawatts of power generation capacity,
including 28 gas-fired plants, and produced about 15 percent of
Italy’s power last year, according to the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 