-- TeliaSonera’s First 7-Year Loan Since ‘04 Shows Borrower Clout
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-11-29T14:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/teliasonera-s-first-7-year-loan-since-04-shows-high-grade-borrower-clout.html
TeliaSonera AB , Sweden’s biggest
phone company, is arranging its first seven-year loan since 2004
as borrowing costs for high-grade European companies have
plunged by half in 2010 from a year ago.  Investment-grade borrowers in Europe have raised four loans
in the fourth quarter this year with a maturity longer than five
years to refinance debt and to fund acquisitions and expansions,
compared with two a year earlier and four in 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  After companies including  Nestle SA , the world’s biggest
food company, negotiated the lowest interest margin in three
years for their new credit lines, borrowers are seeking to
lengthen the duration of their funding to reduce refinancing
risk.  “The excess liquidity in the loan market has not only
resulted in the aggressive driving down of pricing for leading
investment grade corporates, but is now manifesting itself in
extended maturities,” said Richard Hill, head of EMEA loan
syndication at WestLB AG in London. “It shows us how far the
market standards have fallen since the beginning of this year.”  Stockholm-based TeliaSonera is inviting banks to join a 1
billion-euro ($1.3 billion) credit line to refinance its
previous seven-year deal arranged in 2004, shortly after Royal
Philips Electronics NV, the world’s biggest lighting company,
also got a seven-year loan, the longest maturity for a high-
grade company in Europe since 2002, Bloomberg data show.  Banks are required by regulators to set aside capital for
the duration of the seven-year loan to cover losses.  ‘Accomodating’ Clients  Banks are cultivating high-grade borrowers after being
pummeled by $1.8 trillion of losses in the credit crisis. The
clients raised $321.8 billion from syndicated loans this year,
71 percent more than the same period of 2009, according to
Bloomberg data.  The average interest margin high-grade companies in Europe
pay for loans this year dropped to 89 basis points from 163 in
2009, Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  “It’s in borrowers’ interest to push for straight seven-
year corporate loans, but it is very challenging for lenders,”
said Tanneguy de Carne, co-head of European loan syndicate EMEA
at Societe Generale SA in London. “We are trying to be
accommodating with our clients and advising borrowers to stick
to the five-year structure and if they really need to stretch to
seven years, then we can do five years with one or two-year
extensions at the lender discretion.”  ‘Quite Amazing’  Electricite de France SA, Europe’s biggest power producer,
on Nov. 22 signed a 4 billion-euro, five-year revolving credit
that can be extended by two years. The deal pays an initial
interest margin of 35 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  RWE AG , Germany’s second-biggest utility, is also raising a
4 billion-euro credit line that can be extended to seven years.  “It does seem quite amazing that the market is supporting
these tenors on an unsecured basis against the general economic
background and with many banks funding costs still fairly
volatile,” WestLB’s Hill said. “Hopefully they will be very
few and far between.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  