-- Carbon Drops as UN Board Approves Record Volume of Credits
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2010-11-29T15:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/emissions-offsets-drop-after-un-board-allows-issuance-to-hfc-23-projects.html
United Nations emissions offsets
fell to a four-month low as regulators of the world’s second-
biggest carbon market allowed a record volume of credits to be
issued today, mainly to projects previously held up for review.  UN Certified Emission Reductions for December 2010 dropped
as much as 4 percent to 11.75 euros ($15.41) a metric ton, the
lowest since July 29, and traded at 11.86 euros as of 2:35 p.m.
in London. European Union allowances for December fell 0.1
percent to 15.06 euros.  The executive board overseeing the UN’s Clean Development
Mechanism issued 17.8 million tons of credits today, mostly to
hydrofluorocarbon-23-cutting projects, according to UN  website 
data. That’s the most for any single day and makes November the
biggest month for new supply since issuance started in October
2005, according to IDEAcarbon, the London company that rates
projects.  The UN regulator first halted supply to HFC projects in
June following allegations some projects may be getting more
credits than they deserved. The fact that UN board issued
credits to HFC-cutting projects suggest its review was
inconclusive.  “If they’d found evidence of fraud they wouldn’t have
issued,”  Kim Carnahan , a CDM policy specialist at the
International Emissions Trading Association, a Geneva-based
lobby group, said today by telephone from Cancun, Mexico. The
issuance today shows “it’s not a good idea to apply a blanket
accusation to projects of a given type,” and reinforces the
idea that it’s not fair to change the rules in mid-stream.  Cheaper Alternative  UN offsets can be used by more than 11,000 facilities in
the European Union emissions system, the world’s largest cap-
and-trade program, as a cheaper way to comply with their
pollution quotas. The discount of UN credits for December over
EU allowances surged 14 percent to 3.20 euros, the widest since
the contract was offered in January 2009.  The EU proposed last week a ban from the start of 2013 on
credits linked to HFC-23 as well as nitrous oxide from adipic
acid production. The European Commission, the EU regulator, said
that projects related to those industrial gases may create
“excessive” profits and undermine market integrity.  HFC-23, which can trap 11,700 times more heat per molecule
than carbon dioxide, is a byproduct of HCFC-22 used in air-
conditioning and refrigeration.  Taking out HFC-23 and adipic acid credits will remove
almost 50 percent of 250 million tons of credits expected in
2013,  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at Barclays Capital in London,
said today in an e-mailed research note.  “The loss of available underlying commodity that the
restrictions imply will have the biggest impact on the 2013
market,” Sikorski said.  ‘Totally Incoherent’  The EU and environmental lobbyists including Bonn-based CDM
Watch have said some plants may be increasing HCFC-22 output
simply to generate credits for controlling HFC-23 discharges.
While CDM Watch welcomed the UN decision to suspend its HFC-23
methodology, it said the move to approve issuances to 12
projects was “totally incoherent.”  “It doesn’t make sense for the board to suspend issuance
of credits while the investigation is ongoing and then lift the
suspension the very moment it finds that there is a problem,”
Natasha Hurley, policy advisor at CDM Watch, said in a Nov. 27
statement.  Installations in the EU program can swap as many as 1.6
billion UN credits with EU permits on a one-for-one basis in the
current trading period, which runs from 2008 to 2012. The EU
average annual emissions cap for that period is 2.04 billion
tons of CO2, valued at about 31 billion euros at today’s prices.
One permit represents one ton of CO2.  Narrowing Spread  The premium of 2010 CERs over credits for 2011 narrowed 36
percent to 25 euro cents a ton, its narrowest since Aug. 6.  The future of the UN carbon market and other proposals to
cut greenhouse gases will be on the agenda when envoys worldwide
start a two-week meeting today in Cancun for global-warming
talks. They will discuss a climate-protection  framework  for when
limits in the 1997 Kyoto Protocol expire at the end of 2012.  “Without the CDM, there is no incentive to incinerate HFC-
23 waste gas,” CDM Executive Board Chairman  Clifford Mahlung 
said in the statement. “With a revision of the methodology,
we’ll be working to further ensure that the important incentive
provided by the CDM leads to real emission reductions.”  While HFC-23 projects represent less than 1 percent of all
registered UN offset projects, their credits account for more
than half of about 475 million offsets issued so far. The 19
projects cutting the gas under the CDM program are located
mainly in China and India, according to UN data.  In 2009, EU emitters used 82 million UN offsets from the
CDM or the Joint Implementation program for compliance in the
European cap-and-trade, according to  commission  data. Operators
from Germany, Poland, Italy, Spain, UK and France used the
highest number of HFC-23 and nitrous oxide CERs, the commission
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net ;
 Mathew Carr  in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  