-- EPA Seeks Use of 6.6 Million Gallons of Cellulosic Ethanol in U.S. in 2011
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2010-11-29T21:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/epa-seeks-use-of-6-6-million-gallons-of-cellulosic-ethanol-in-u-s-in-2011.html
U.S. refiners should blend 6.6
million gallons of cellulosic ethanol with gasoline next year
under the Renewable Fuels Standard, the Environmental Protection
Agency said today.  That form of the alternative fuel is considered superior to
the current grain-based one because it is derived from non-food
crops such as switchgrass, corn cobs and wood waste.  In February, the EPA slashed the cellulosic ethanol mandate
for this year by 94 percent, reducing the goal to 6.5 million
gallons from the 100 million required under a 2007 energy law,
citing the lack of commercial-scale production.  “Based on an analysis of expected market availability, EPA
is finalizing a lower 2011 cellulosic volume than the statutory
target,” the agency said. “Overall, EPA remains optimistic
that the commercial availability of cellulosic biofuel will
continue to grow in the years ahead.”  The 2007 law, which gave the agency the authority to
develop the rules, calls for the nation to use 12 billion
gallons of renewable fuels such as ethanol this year and 15
billion gallons of corn-based forms of the fuel by 2015. The
U.S. is to use 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2022.  Ethanol industry advocates said the lower target deters
investment that would allow the fuel to become more commercially
available.  “There’s no question that the potential for cellulosic
ethanol remains on track and that is why it is so important to
have real targets to give confidence that there will be a market
for those who are investing in the industry,” Stephanie Dreyer,
a spokeswoman for Growth Energy, an ethanol trade group, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Poet LLC, based in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, is the
largest U.S. ethanol producer, followed by Decatur, Illinois-
based  Archer Daniels Midland Co .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  