-- Merkel's Party Faces Hamburg Election After Greens Withdraw From Coalition
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2010-11-29T10:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/merkel-s-party-faces-hamburg-election-after-greens-withdraw-from-coalition.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  faces a
regional vote in Hamburg next year after the Greens unexpectedly
pulled out of a coalition with her Christian Democratic Union,
forcing early elections in Germany’s richest state.  The Greens announced yesterday they were quitting as junior
partner in Germany’s first-ever coalition with Merkel’s party at
state level and said they lost faith in CDU Mayor Christoph
Ahlhaus after five members of the Hamburg city-state’s
administration resigned. Elections will have to take place by
Feb. 20, according to election-monitoring website  election.de .  “The Greens are simply not a reliable partner,” CDU
parliamentary floor leader  Volker Kauder  told reporters in
Berlin today. “They’re weaseling out of responsibility.”  The vote thrusts Hamburg to the forefront as the first of
seven electoral testing grounds for Merkel’s party next year.
While her coalition trails the opposition nationally, the gap
has narrowed in recent weeks as she prodded other euro-area
countries to enforce budget discipline. Support for her CDU/CSU
bloc rose to a six-month high last week, recovering levels last
seen in May before Merkel agreed to aid Greece.  The Greens, which reached a record high in opinion polls
last month amid public opposition to Merkel’s plans to prolong
the use of nuclear power, said that the CDU has run out of time
in Hamburg.  After Ahlhaus succeeded  Ole von Beust  as Hamburg mayor this
year, the CDU “has reached its limits,” Greens party co-leader
 Cem Ozdemir  said on Deutschlandfunk radio today. The coalition
with Merkel’s party was “no model” for national politics, he
said.  Kauder also ruled out a federal coalition with the Greens.
The Greens “just aren’t a partner for us,’ he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Crawford  in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  