-- Leslie Nielsen, Star of ‘Naked Gun’ Spoof Movies, Is Dead at 84
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-11-29T05:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/leslie-nielsen-star-of-naked-gun-spoof-movies-is-dead-at-84.html
Leslie Nielsen , the comedian whose
sight gags and one-liners in cinematic farces such as “Naked
Gun” and “Airplane!” had U.S. audiences rolling in the aisles
during the 1980s and ‘90s, has died. He was 84.  Nielsen died yesterday of pneumonia after two weeks in a
hospital near his home in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, his agent,
John S. Kelly, told the Associated Press.  “Just in this last 48 hours, the infection has gotten too
much,” his nephew Doug Nielsen told Canadian radio station CKNW.
“He just fell asleep and passed away.”  The silver-haired, Canadian-born comic was among a crop of
Hollywood actors who found success in funny-man roles after
decades of playing serious, no-nonsense characters. Along with
 Lloyd Bridges  and George Kennedy, Nielsen boosted his profile
with a switch to deadpan humor by sending up parts he had played
in early dramas and parodying themes borrowed from other films.  Nielsen acted in more than 50 movies before he turned to
comedy as Dr. Rumack in “Airplane!” (1980), a satire based on
the 1957 film “Zero Hour” and the “Airport” disaster series
of the 1970s. He followed up with a starring role in the “Naked
Gun” trilogy (1988-94) as police Lieutenant Frank Drebin, who
bumbled his way to success with sidekick Captain Ed Hocken,
played by Kennedy, and love interest Jane Spencer, portrayed by
 Priscilla Presley .  “I’ve been called the  Laurence Olivier  of spoofs,”
Nielsen said. “I guess that would make Laurence Olivier the
Leslie Nielsen of Shakespeare.”  ‘Don’t Call Me Shirley’  “Airplane!” was ranked 10th in the American Film
Institute’s list of  top 100 comedy  films in 2000. Set on board a
commercial plane whose crew and passengers have fallen ill from
food poisoning, the movie produced numerous trademark one-liners.
“Surely you can’t be serious,” the plane’s makeshift pilot
says in one scene when asked if he can fly the plane. “I am
serious. And don’t call me Shirley,” Nielsen’s character
replies.  The “Naked Gun” series raked in $216 million in gross
revenue and the box-office takings were  among the highest  for a
comedy in the past 30 years. The first installment follows
Drebin’s absurd attempts to foil a plan to assassinate  Queen Elizabeth II  at a baseball game on her U.S. visit. The sequels
centered on plots to kidnap a government scientist and to
explode a bomb at the Academy Awards.  Slapstick scenes abound with Drebin obliviously disabling
criminals as he enters a room, repeatedly knocking down first
lady  Barbara Bush  and unintentionally squeezing the breast of a
female dinner guest as he struggles with his lobster dish.  Whoopee Cushion  Nielsen, who carried a  whoopee cushion  to simulate
flatulence during television interviews, had a minor role as
President Harris in two of the “Scary Movie” horror-film
spoofs in the past decade. The series was even more popular than
“Naked Gun,” with gross revenue of $430 million for the four
parts.  Leslie William Nielsen was born Feb. 11, 1926, in  Regina ,
the capital city of Canada’s Saskatchewan province. His father,
an officer in the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, was of Danish
descent and his mother was of Welsh ancestry.  Nielsen, one of whose two brothers later became Canada’s
 deputy prime minister , was raised in Tulita, Northwest
Territories, before attending Victoria Composite High School in
Edmonton, Alberta. At age 17, he trained as an aerial gunner in
the Royal Canadian Air Force during World War II. Nielsen earned
a degree at Lorne Greene’s Academy of Radio Arts in Toronto
before moving to New York in 1949.  Poseidon Captain  He won a scholarship to study acting under  Sanford Meisner 
at the  Neighborhood Playhouse  in New York before Paramount
Pictures offered him a contract in 1954. For five years, he
appeared on live television programs such as “Tales From
Tomorrow” and made his film debut in the drama “Ransom!”
(1956). A starring role followed in the science-fiction movie
“Forbidden Planet” (1956) and he played opposite  Debbie Reynolds  in the romance film “Tammy and the Bachelor” (1957).  Nielsen appeared in the biographical “Harlow” (1965) and
the disaster film “Poseidon Adventure” (1972), in which he
played the captain of a sinking ship. He also had roles in the
television series “Hawaii Five-O,” “M*A*S*H” and
“Columbo.”  Known as a practical joker off the set, Nielsen got his
break when “Airplane!” directors Jim Abrahams,  David Zucker 
and Jerry Zucker sought serious actors who could adapt to
slapstick, a style they later brought to television with
“Police Squad!” (1982). The series introduced the character of
Frank Drebin and earned his portrayer an Emmy nomination.  Fictional Autobiography  Nielsen, a naturalized U.S. citizen, remained a comedy
actor after his success in the 1980s, landing roles in less-
acclaimed spoofs such as “2001: A Space Travesty” (2000) and
“Superhero Movie” (2007). He played  more than 230 characters 
in his film-and-television career.  He published a fictional autobiography in 1993 to coincide
with the release of “Naked Gun 33 1/3: The Final Insult.” The
book, called “The Naked Truth” and co-written with David
Fisher, included absurd factoids about the actor’s career as
well as fake photographs of himself posing with other stars. An
avid golfer, Nielsen also wrote “Leslie Nielsen’s Stupid Little
Golf Book” and “Bad Golf My Way.”  Nielsen was divorced three times and married his fourth
wife, Barbaree Earl, in 2001. He had two daughters -- Maura
Nielsen Kaplan and Thea Nielsen Disney -- from his second
marriage. He lived in Paradise Valley, Arizona.  His wife and two daughters survive him. Erik Nielsen, his
brother and former deputy prime minister of Canada, died in
September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in Frankfurt at 
 dhenry2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  