-- Euro Falls Against Dollar as Irish Deal Fails to Stem Concern Over Crisis
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-29T12:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/euro-trades-near-two-month-low-against-dollar-after-irish-bailout-package.html
The euro fell to the lowest level in
more than two months against the dollar as Ireland’s agreement
to receive 85 billion euros ($112 billion) in aid failed to stem
concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will deepen.  The shared European currency slipped versus the yen and
erased an early advance versus the greenback. Finance chiefs
ended crisis talks in Brussels yesterday, agreeing that a future
crisis-management system won’t automatically cut the value of
bond holdings as the Irish package was secured. Irish opposition
parties criticized the terms of the agreement, and the cost of
insuring debt from Spain and Portugal soared to record highs.  “We saw an attempt for the euro to trade higher earlier in
the session, but even if the Irish problem is solved, and that’s
still debatable with the need to get the austerity budget
passed, investors are very wary of seeing the reaction of the
other peripheral members,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive
director of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce in London.  The 16-nation currency slid 0.7 percent to $1.3153 at
7:32 a.m. in New York, and depreciated earlier to $1.3136, the
weakest since Sept. 21. The euro slid 0.6 percent against the
yen to 110.73, from 111.37 on Nov. 26.  Ireland said it will pay average annual interest of
5.8 percent on the package, which breaks down into 45 billion
euros from European governments, 22.5 billion euros from the
International Monetary Fund and 17.5 billion euros from
Ireland’s cash reserves and national pension fund.  Sovereign Bailouts  European finance leaders also backed a Franco-German
compromise on post-2013 sovereign bailouts that waters down
calls by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  for investors to assume
losses and share the costs with taxpayers.  Irish opposition politicians reacted angrily to the bailout
package.  Michael Noonan , finance spokesman for the largest
opposition party Fine Gael, said the interest rate was “far too
high” and that the “government was cleaned out in the
negotiations.”  The deal for Ireland shifts attention to Portugal, which
last week passed the deepest spending cuts in more than three
decades with the goal of getting back under the EU’s deficit
limits by 2012. The cost of insuring debt of Spain and Portugal
soared to record highs, according to CMA prices for credit-
default swaps.  The dollar is poised for its first monthly gain versus the
yen since April as concern military action on the Korean
peninsula will escalate underpinned demand for the relative
safety of the U.S. currency.  Korean Concern  South Korea has doubled its artillery strength on the
disputed island of Yeonpyeong, which was hit by shells fired
from North Korea last week, and asked journalists to leave,
Yonhap News reported. The North Koreans have installed surface-
to-air missiles in the area, it said.  “The dollar is going to be the currency of choice as risk
appetite remains somewhat under pressure as issues with Korea
remain front and center,” said Stretch.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of 6 major U.S. trading partners including the euro
and the yen, rose 0.4 percent to the highest since Sept. 21.  The Swiss franc rose against 12 of the 16 most active
currencies monitored by Bloomberg as investors sought a refuge
amid lingering concern about the risk of contagion from the
Irish debt crisis.  The franc strengthened 0.7 percent to 1.3190 per euro from
1.3278 last week. It appreciated 0.1 percent against the U.S.
currency to 1.0031 franc per dollar, from 1.0036 franc on
Nov. 26.  The currency has gained 7.8 percent against its major
trading partners in the past six months, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the best-
performing currency during that period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  