-- European Stocks Fall as Irish Bailout Fails to Sooth Investors
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-11-29T17:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/european-u-s-stock-futures-rise-after-ireland-bailout-asian-shares-gain.html
European stocks  sank to an eight-
week low as a bailout of Ireland failed to reassure investors
that the region’s sovereign-debt crisis will be contained.  Spanish and Italian equities including Banco Santander SA
and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA led declines as the nations’ bonds
plummeted. Vestas Wind Systems A/S lost 5.1 percent as Exane BNP
Paribas advised selling the shares. Bank of Ireland Plc jumped
16 percent after euro-region governments agreed to hand the
nation an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  retreated 1.7 percent to 262.16
at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the lowest level since Oct. 5.
The measure has declined for three straight weeks as concern
mounted that peripheral euro-area countries may not be able to
repay their debt and North Korea fired shells on South Korea for
the first time since the 1950-53 war.  “Whether you think the sovereign problems stop at Greece,
Ireland and perhaps Portugal depends on whether you think this
is a problem with the overall Western financial system or
whether you think it’s only a problem with individual over-
leveraged entities,”  Jim Reid , the head of global strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in an e-mail today. “Spain may not have
a problem in isolation per se but if we are in a deleveraging
trend it may simply be one of the next deleveraging victims.”  National benchmark indexes declined in all 18 western
European markets today. Spain’s  IBEX 35  slid 2.3 percent and
Portugal’s PSI-20 retreated 2.2 percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB lost
2.7 percent, the biggest drop in three months.  Spanish, Italian Bonds  Spanish 10-year bonds fell by the most since the euro’s
debut and Irish bonds slid even after the bailout agreement. The
yield spread investors demand to hold Italian bonds rather than
German notes rose to a euro-era record, and Belgian securities
dropped, as the nations sold securities at higher yields.  The cost of insuring the debt of Spain and Portugal soared
to record levels, according to CMA prices for credit-default
swaps. Contracts on Spain climbed 28.75 basis points to 351.5
while Portugal rose 37 basis points to 539.  “There remains a large degree of uncertainty throughout
Europe with investors refusing to buy into Spanish or Portuguese
stocks fearing that these could be the next two states requiring
a similar bailout solution to that of Ireland,” said  Joshua Raymond , a markets strategist at City Index Ltd. in London.  Santander, Spain’s largest bank, sank 2.7 percent to 7.33
euros, taking its loss since July 28 to 29 percent. Intesa,
Italy’s second-biggest bank, fell 4.1 percent to 2.04 euros.  U.K. House Prices  In the U.K.,  house prices  fell for a fifth month in
November as demand for property dropped the most in almost two
years, Hometrack Ltd. said. The report adds to evidence of a
weakening property market after Rightmove Plc said on Nov. 15
that home sellers cut asking prices by the most since 2007 this
month and U.K. banks approved the smallest number of mortgages
since 2009 in October.  Even so, stocks in Europe will rally 9.9 percent by the end
of 2011 and U.K. shares will climb 13 percent as earnings gain
and investors favor equities over bonds,  Graham Secker , Morgan
Stanley’s head of pan-European equity strategy, wrote in a
report today.  Vestas , the world’s largest maker of wind turbines, slid
5.1 percent to 156.5 kroner as Exane downgraded the shares to
“underperform” from “neutral.”  Solarworld, Q-Cells  German solar company Solarworld AG sank 6.2 percent to 7.56
euros, the lowest level in more than five years. Q-Cells SE
retreated 5.4 percent to 2.08 euros.  Members of Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic
Union want to limit the growth in solar-panel installations in
Germany because the rising costs to consumers may undermine the
acceptance of alternative energy, the Financial Times
Deutschland reported.  Hochtief AG  declined 6.3 percent to 55.93 euros as the
builder’s chief labor representative, Siegfried Mueller, called
on the German state to oppose Actividades de Construccion &
Servicios SA’s 2.7 billion-euro hostile bid.  Handelsblatt reported that ACS’s plan to buy Hochtief may
be blocked by Germany’s Bafin regulator because the shares
offered in exchange for the target company’s equity don’t yet
exist physically.  Bank of Ireland  jumped 16 percent to 30.7 euro cents, the
biggest rally in the Stoxx 600. Allied Irish Banks Plc advanced
3.8 percent to 35.5 cents.  Irish Banks  Ireland’s banks will get as much as 35 billion euros of aid
while senior bondholders will escape the cost of the bailout led
by the European Union and International Monetary Fund, the
government said.  Gartmore Group Ltd. , the U.K. fund manager that slumped
earlier this month after losing star money manager  Roger Guy ,
rose 2.2 percent to 105.3 pence as the Financial Times reported
that Henderson Group Plc is considering buying the company.  Henderson has asked advisers to examine the possibility of
buying a portion or all its rival, the Financial Times reported
on its website, citing unidentified people familiar with the
situation. Henderson, on behalf of clients, controls about 11
percent of Gartmore, the newspaper said.  Aryzta AG surged 6.1 percent to 42.75 Swiss francs after
the Swiss supplier of bakery products to restaurants said fiscal
first-quarter sales gained 33 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 