-- EU Says Euro-Area Growth to Weaken in 2011 as Crisis Still `Casts Shadow'
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-29T11:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/euro-region-economic-growth-will-weaken-next-year-on-budget-cuts-exports.html
Europe’s economy  may weaken next
year as budget cuts to stem a mounting debt crisis hurt consumer
demand and faltering global expansion curbs exports, the
European Commission said.  Gross-domestic-product  growth in the 16-nation euro region
may weaken to 1.5 percent in 2011 from 1.7 percent this year,
the Brussels-based commission said in a report published today.
While Germany may expand 3.7 percent this year, the economies of
Ireland, Greece and Spain will continue to shrink.  The recovery is “making progress,” though the “shock of
the global crisis still casts its shadow over the economy,” the
commission said. “The level of uncertainty for the outlook
continues to be very high.”  Ireland yesterday became the second euro nation to receive
external aid as governments seek to stem a debt crisis that
pushed up borrowing costs and clouded the economic outlook.
While growth remains “fragile and uneven,” Germany will
continue to power the  region’s recovery , the commission said.  “Investors remain concerned,” said  Juergen Michels , chief
euro-region economist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “Without
Germany, the growth picture would be rather bleak.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.3176 at 12:09 p.m. in Frankfurt, down from $1.3242 yesterday.  German Surge  Recent data indicate the slowdown in the pace of the
recovery may be modest. Economic  confidence  surged to the
highest in three years in November, the commission said in a
separate report today. German executive sentiment increased to a
record and growth in Europe’s services and manufacturing
 industries  accelerated.  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, GDP will increase 2.2
percent in 2011, today’s report showed. In France, the economy
may expand 1.6 percent this year and next, while Italian GDP may
rise 1.1 percent in both years.  In 2011, Greece and Portugal will be the only two euro-
region economies showing a contraction, the commission said.
Ireland’s economy may expand 0.9 percent.  “This recovery is uneven, an many member states are going
through a difficult period of adjustment,” European Economic
and Monetary Affairs  Olli Rehn  said in a statement. The
commission said that “lingering concerns about fiscal
sustainability” are “among the most important challenges.”  Debt Risks  Ireland’s 85 billion-euro ($112 billion) aid package is
aimed at quelling market turmoil that’s threatening to spread to
countries including Portugal and Spain. The EU also yesterday
told Greece, which received a bailout earlier this year, it
could have an extra four-and-a-half years to repay its loans.  “A replay of the negative feedback loop between rising
sovereign risk premia, banks’ ability to lend and economic
growth prospects cannot be excluded,” the commission said,
adding “we do not think” such a scenario is likely.  European Central Bank council member  Christian Noyer  said
in Tokyo today that the economic recovery remains “well on
track” and the region isn’t facing a confidence crisis.  European stocks rose today, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
gaining as much as 0.8 percent. The premium investors charge to
hold Irish 10-year bonds over benchmark German bonds fell 8
basis points to 638 basis points. It reached a record 656 basis
points on Nov. 26, almost triple the spread four months ago.  Export Demand  European companies have been forced to rely on faster-
growing economies to boost sales as budget cuts discouraged
consumer spending at home.  Porsche SE , the German maker of the
911 sports car, said on Nov. 24 that operating profit surged
more than sevenfold in the quarter through October.  Export demand helped fuel the region’s fastest growth in
four years in the second quarter, with the economy expanding 1
percent. Growth weakened to 0.4 percent in the third quarter.  “The growth spurt seen in particular in the second quarter
of this year was exceptional and not likely to last,” the
commission said. Still, “we see a welcome broadening of the
basis for the recovery, with domestic demand coming to the fore,
and the recovery increasingly becoming self-sustained.”  While the euro dropped against the dollar in the first half
of the year as the Greek crisis undermined the currency, it’s
gained 11 percent since falling to a four-year low in June,
making exports less competitive just as a global growth weakens.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
on Nov. 18 lowered its global growth forecast for next year to
4.2 percent from 4.5 percent and forecast a “soft spot.” The
euro-region economy may grow 1.7 percent this year and next,
lagging a U.S. expansion, the Paris-based group forecast.  The U.S.  Federal Reserve  on Nov. 3 decided to purchase $600
billion in Treasury securities to stimulate the world’s largest
economy. The ECB has purchased government bonds and extended
emergency liquidity for banks into 2011 to help restore investor
confidence in the currency region.  The Frankfurt-based central bank will release its latest
economic forecasts for this year and next on Dec. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  