-- European Economic Confidence Climbs to Three-Year High on German Exports
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-29T10:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/european-confidence-rises-to-three-year-high-as-german-surge-aids-recovery.html
European  confidence  in the economic
outlook improved to the highest in three years in November as
Germany’s export-driven growth helped counter concerns that a
spreading sovereign-debt crisis will hurt the recovery.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the 16 euro
nations rose to 105.3 from 103.8 in October, the European
Commission in Brussels said in a statement today. That’s the
highest since November 2007. Economists forecast a gain to 105,
the median of 26  estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey shows.  Europe’s economic recovery  has held up in the face of
tougher budget cuts as some of the region’s largest companies
including carmaker  Daimler AG  benefited from demand in emerging
markets. German  business confidence  rose to a record in November
and European governments yesterday agreed on an 85 billion-euro
($113 billion) aid package for Ireland to quell market turmoil.  “Ireland is too small for a big economic impact,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , a senior economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“While the export dynamic might weaken and peripheral countries
will be hurt by austerity measures, the recovery remains robust
in core countries.”  A gauge of sentiment among  manufacturers  rose to 0.9 from
zero in the previous month, while services confidence increased
to 10.2 from 8.1, today’s report showed. The index of  consumer
confidence  advanced to minus 9.4 from minus 10.9 and sentiment
among builders fell to minus 26.4 from minus 25.4.  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
report and was at $1.3214 as of 10:09 a.m. in London from
$1.3213 yesterday.  Rising Stocks  The debt crisis has forced governments from Spain to
Ireland to cut spending and increase taxes to push down budget
deficits, raising concerns about the region’s economic outlook.
European Central Bank council member  Christian Noyer  said in
Tokyo today that the recovery remains “well on track” and the
region isn’t facing a confidence crisis.  European stocks rose today, with the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
gaining as much as 0.8 percent. The premium investors charge to
hold Irish 10-year bonds over benchmark German bonds fell 10
basis points to 636 basis points. It reached a record 656 basis
points on Nov. 26, almost triple the spread four months ago.  German exports  are powering the region’s expansion, fueling
earnings at companies including  Porsche SE . The Stuttgart,
Germany-based carmaker said on Nov. 24 that operating profit
surged more than sevenfold in the quarter through October.  ‘Confident’  European companies have relied on faster-growing economies
to boost earnings as budget cuts eroded consumer demand at home.
 Daimler , the world’s second-largest maker of luxury cars, on
Oct. 28 raised its full-year profit forecast after net income
beat analysts’ estimates partly on increasing demand in China.  “The world economy is not yet as stable as it was before
the recession, but we are confident that we will continue to
operate successfully in our markets,” Daimler Chief Executive
Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said on that day.  A gauge measuring manufacturers’ production expectations
rose to 15.3 from 14, today’s report showed. An indicator of
export order books increased to minus 10.6 from minus 13.1 and
manufacturers also grew more confident about hiring. A gauge
measuring manufacturers’ price expectations rose to 10.6 in
November from 8.6 in October. The index of consumers’ price
outlook also increased.  ‘Soft Spot’  While the euro dropped against the dollar in the first half
of the year as the Greek debt crisis undermined the currency,
it’s gained 11 percent since falling to a four-year low in June,
making exports less competitive abroad just as a global recovery
weakens.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
on Nov. 18 lowered its global growth forecast for next year to
4.2 percent from 4.5 percent and forecast a “soft spot.” The
euro-region economy may grow 1.7 percent this year and next,
lagging a U.S. expansion, the Paris-based group forecast.  Bulgari SpA , the world’s third-largest jeweler based in
Rome, on Nov. 11 reported third-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates. Chief Executive Officer  Francesco Trapani 
said that U.S. shoppers have become “much more cautious.”  The U.S.  Federal Reserve  on Nov. 3 decided to purchase $600
billion in Treasury securities to stimulate the world’s largest
economy. In Europe, the ECB has bought government bonds and
extended emergency liquidity for banks into 2011 to help restore
investor confidence in the currency region.  The Frankfurt-based ECB will publish new economic forecasts
for this year and next on Dec. 2 when council members meet for
their monthly interest-rate meeting. The benchmark interest rate
is currently at a record low 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  