-- European Companies Cut Debt Most Since '03 as Earnings Jump 46%
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-11-29T17:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/european-companies-cut-debt-most-since-03-as-earnings-jump-46-.html
While European countries slide
deeper into debt, the region’s companies are paying off
creditors and boosting  profits  at the fastest rate in seven
years.  Liabilities  as a percentage of earnings in the benchmark
Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 22 percent last quarter, the most
since 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts
say annual profit growth in Europe will average 46 percent in
2010 and 2011, more than at any time in the previous seven
years. The projected income would push valuations down to the
lowest levels on record excluding the three months after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in September 2008, the data
show.  Dwindling debt and falling  price-earnings  ratios are
bullish signs to GLG Partners LP, Pioneer Investments and Aegon
Asset Management just as rising budget deficits push the cost of
insuring bonds of Ireland, Portugal and Spain against default to
record highs. To BNP Paribas Fortis Global Markets, they show
executives are so concerned government bailouts will fail that
they won’t take steps to  reward  shareholders, such as stock
buybacks and mergers and acquisitions.  “After the Lehman collapse executives were very quick in
the response,” said  Fabio Di Giansante , a fund manager at
Pioneer Investments in Dublin, which oversees $246 billion
worldwide. “They cut costs and investments when they needed to,
and have been able to keep the costs under control. Companies
are now ready for when top-line growth kicks in.”  Ireland Package  The 5 percent advance in the Stoxx 600 this year through
Nov. 26 extended its rally since March 2009 to  68 percent , data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Gains were restrained by losses in
the euro region’s most indebted economies, costs of providing a
bailout to Greece and expectations for more charges to support
Ireland. Greece’s  ASE Index  plunged 34 percent this year through
last week, the biggest drop among 24 developed markets, while
the ISEQ in Ireland fell 9.6 percent. Spain’s IBEX 35 lost 21
percent.  European governments, seeking to quell the market turmoil,
handed Ireland an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package
yesterday and diluted proposals to force bondholders to bear
some cost of future bailouts. The Stoxx 600 tumbled 1.7 percent
to 262.16 today.  European Growth  Europe’s economy is forecast to expand by 1.7 percent next
year, according to the International Monetary Fund. Earnings for
Stoxx 600 companies may climb 14 percent in 2011, beating the 13
percent projection for companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 ,
according to the average of more than 10,000 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. European profits are predicted to surge
78 percent this year, the data show.  “If companies were only looking at the industry in which
they operate, they would already be re-investing in those
businesses -- they would have been  hiring workers , they would’ve
been doing M&A,” said  Bill Dinning , head of investment strategy
at Aegon in Edinburgh, which oversees $68 billion. “But all
they hear is that the Federal Reserve and everyone else is
convinced how the world is going to end unless they continue to
do extraordinary things. If I look at the world bottom-up, I
come to a completely different conclusion.”  Bailing Out Banks  While debt has fallen for Europe’s companies, government
liabilities as a proportion of gross domestic product climbed,
partly due to the cost of bailing out banks. European Union
government debt reached 77.5 percent of GDP this year from 58.5
percent in 2007, according to data from the IMF. The ratio will
reach 82 percent in 2012, IMF data show.  Britain’s government paid more than 65 billion pounds ($101
billion) for equity in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
Lloyds Group Plc, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Belgium spent 21 billion euros for securities in companies such
as Fortis and KBC Groep NV. Ireland, which has already injected
33 billion euros into its banks, yesterday allocated 35 billion
euros more.  At the same time, the proportion of debt to shareholders’
equity in the Stoxx 600  Banks Index  dropped to 6.9 times last
week from 16 in September 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It has been a shift of debt from private to public,”
said Pioneer’s Di Giansante.  Enterprise Value  The Stoxx 600 ended last week at 10.4 times estimated
earnings for next year, compared with 12.3 times for the S&P
500, which has gained 76 percent since bottoming in March 2009.  Enterprise value, or debt plus equity, relative to earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization has
dropped to 12.8 times. That’s close to the lowest level since
2004, the data show.  “The corporate sector entered into this crisis in such
better shape,” said  Pierre Lagrange , senior managing director
at GLG Partners in London, which oversees $25 billion. “You’re
getting extraordinary profitability and extraordinary return on
equity. The euro zone is in a good position. It’s a  sick puppy 
in the world arena so that means it’s neglected.”  Executives are unlikely to borrow or increase spending
until they are more confident in the economic outlook, according
to  Philip Gijsels , head of research at BNP Paribas Fortis Global
Markets. The prospect of bigger government deficits is
discouraging companies from buying rivals, hiring workers and
boosting dividends, he said.  Borrowing Costs  “Re-leveraging balance sheets won’t be their first
option,” said Brussels-based Gijsels. “As government debt
starts appearing riskier, that will drive interest rates higher,
and eventually lift corporate borrowing costs too.”  For now, corporate debt is the safest ever relative to
governments, according to the credit-default swaps market. A
Markit Group Ltd. index of 125 European companies dropped today
to a record 78 basis points below bonds issued by countries from
Greece to Germany and Italy.  European companies bought back a net $90 billion in equity
this year, according to data from UBS AG. While that’s a rebound
from $140 billion of net selling in 2009, it’s down from the
annual average of $360 billion in repurchases between 2005 and
2007, data compiled by the investment bank show.  Takeovers of $433 billion announced this year compare with
$1.51 trillion in 2007, before the credit crisis froze financing
for deals, Bloomberg data show.  Companies from  Accor SA , Europe’s largest hotelier, to
luxury carmaker Porsche SE and WPP Plc, the biggest advertising
company, are showing signs that the economic recovery is
gathering momentum.  No Sad Stories  “When I or my colleagues meet companies, you don’t hear
any sad stories,” said Dinning, who is betting that stocks will
outperform bonds. “You need to listen to what companies are
saying and you need to look at secondary indicators of business
trends,” such as hotel rooms, cargo,  railroads  and advertising
spending, Dinning said.  “Those are clear signs.”  Shares of Accor, based in Evry, France, and Denham, U.K.-
based  Intercontinental Hotels Group Plc , the world’s largest
lodging operator by number of rooms, have jumped at least 30
percent this year as travel spending recovered.  Revenue per available room in western Europe has risen 12
percent in euros this year from the same period in 2009,
researcher STR Global said Nov. 24, beating the 11 percent
growth rate for North America. Accor jumped to a two-year high
on Oct. 21 after increasing its profit target for the year.  Cars, Ad Spending  Porsche , in Stuttgart, Germany, said Nov. 24 that operating
profit surged more than sevenfold in the fiscal first quarter on
demand for the Cayenne sport-utility vehicle and Panamera sedan.
The stock has jumped 57 percent in November, the best monthly
performance on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  in Munich and Stuttgart-based
Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz, the world’s two largest makers of
luxury autos, will shorten Christmas breaks at factories because
of increasing demand for new models, the companies said Nov. 23.
Audi, the luxury unit of Volkswagen AG, plans to add shifts next
month to cope with record orders.  Dublin-based WPP on Oct. 29 said third-quarter revenue rose
12 percent, beating analysts’ estimates, as spending on ads
continued to recover. The owner of agencies such as Ogilvy &
Mather Worldwide and Hill & Knowlton said it expects to beat its
full-year margin target of a 1-point improvement. The stock has
gained  19 percent  in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Last year was about survival,” Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Sorrell  said in a Bloomberg Television interview Oct. 29.
“This year is about growing the top line.”  Biggest Banks  Market strategists at the region’s biggest banks say
European equities will rise next year due to lower-than-average
valuations. Societe Generale SA and Exane BNP Paribas last week
forecast gains for the Stoxx 600 of 15 percent for 2011.  Paul Marson , chief investment officer at Lombard Odier
Darier Hentsch U.K. Ltd., says Europe will outperform other
regions next year because corporate profits and valuations will
overshadow economic concerns.  “There is no correlation whatsoever between GDP growth and
equity-market return,” said London-based Marson, whose company
oversees $151 billion. “What matters to us are  value  and
earnings-per-share growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 