-- HP Plans $2 Billion Debt Offering Amid Commercial Paper `Crack' Reduction
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-11-29T18:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/hewlett-packard-plans-benchmark-offering-of-notes-in-two-parts.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. , the world’s
largest computer maker, plans to sell $2 billion of bonds as
soon as today to repay commercial paper borrowings as companies
cut back on the short-term IOUs.  “I love the fact companies are getting off that ‘CP
crack,’ as we call it, because it is enticing at such low levels
that you become quite easily addicted to it,” said  Timothy Cox ,
an executive director of debt capital markets at Mizuho
Securities USA in New York. “It tells us more and more that
companies are looking to extend debt, get rid of short-term
obligations and clean their balance sheets up.”  Companies are  cutting back  on commercial paper, short-term
borrowings that typically mature in 270 days or less, with the
amount outstanding falling for a fourth straight week to $1.065
trillion in the period ended Nov. 24, Federal Reserve data show.
HP’s commercial paper outstanding surged to $5.17 billion on
July 31 from $294 million in October 2009, according to a
regulatory filing.  HP may issue $650 million of five-year notes that yield 73
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, and $1.35
billion of 10-year bonds that pay a spread of 95 basis points,
according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Bank of
America Corp., BNP Paribas SA, UBS AG and Wells Fargo & Co. are
managing the sale, the person said.  September Offering  The weighted average interest rate of 0.3 percent on HP’s
commercial paper on July 31 compares with a 1.2 percent rate in
October 2009, according to the Sept. 9 filing. The highest-rated
non-bank issuers pay  an annualized  0.22 percent for 90-day
paper, compared with 1.29 percent two years ago, Fed data show.  HP last week forecast first-quarter profits that exceeded
analysts’ expectations and said it would boost research and
development efforts. The Palo Alto, California-based company
said it will earn about $1.28 a share with sales of $32.8
billion to $33 billion in the three months ended in January,
versus profit of $1.22 a share and revenue of $32.8 billion
estimated by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Moody’s Investors Service  rates  the company A2 and Standard
& Poor’s grades it an equivalent A.  HP last sold debt on Sept. 8, issuing $3 billion of notes
in a three-part transaction, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds from that sale were slated to repay
outstanding commercial paper and to finance acquisitions, said a
person familiar with the transaction, who declined to be
identified citing lack of authorization to speak publicly.  Seasonally adjusted commercial paper outstanding is at the
lowest since the week ended Sept. 22, and compares with $1.256
trillion a year ago, Fed data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  