-- Texas Christian to Join Big East Conference Starting in 2012 Academic Year
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-11-29T21:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/texas-christian-to-join-big-east-conference-starting-in-2012-academic-year.html
Texas Christian University  agreed to
join the  Big East Conference  for all sports, becoming its ninth
football program and 17th basketball school.  The Fort Worth, Texas, university will become a Big East
member on July 1, 2012. The Horned Frogs will participate in 20
league sports beginning with the 2012-13 season, the Big East
said at a news conference held on TCU’s campus.  “We’re headed into a realm, an arena that we’ve always
dreamed about,” TCU Athletic Director  Chris Del Conte  said.
“If you allow yourself to dream for a little bit, to pinch
yourself, it’s unbelievable. It is a great time to be a Frog.”  The addition adds to what is already the National
Collegiate Athletic Association’s largest Division I-A
conference.  In football,  TCU  will join West Virginia, Connecticut,
Pittsburgh, Syracuse, South Florida, Louisville, Cincinnati and
Rutgers. Villanova, which is already a non-football member, is
considering an invitation to become its 10th football team and
move up from a lower division.  The Horned Frogs are third in the Bowl Championship Series
standings, behind Auburn and No. 2 Oregon. The rankings
determine which schools will play for the BCS championship on
Jan. 10 in Glendale, Arizona. Auburn still must face South
Carolina in the Southeastern Conference championship game on
Dec. 4, while Oregon plays Oregon State.  The move for TCU, which has an enrollment of 9,142, may
help the Big East as it tries to remain among the six
conferences that get automatic berths in one of the five BCS
bowls. The Big East will receive about $21 million this year
from the affiliation,  Bill Hancock , the executive director of
the BCS, said in an e-mail.  The TCU Effect  The Big East is secure in its BCS position through 2014,
and can use TCU’s 2010 performance to show its worthiness to
retain it’s spot.  “Our focus was to add a quality institution to our
football membership,” said Big East Commissioner  John Marinatto . “Clearly the tremendously successful TCU football
team adds enormous strength to the Big East roster. The
opportunity to add an institution such as TCU as a full member
was an opportunity that our presidents and chancellors simply
could not pass up.”  TCU’s decision to leave the Mountain West Conference came
in part because of the departures of Utah, which in June
announced plans to join the Pac-10, and BYU, which is going
independent, Del Conte said.  “It was a wonderful conference, but it’s not the same
conference we joined,” he said.  Road Trips  Instead, the team will have long trips for conference road
games, traveling as far as the almost 1,800 miles to get to
Providence College, a non-football Big East member in Rhode
Island.  With non-football conference schools receiving no money
from the league’s BCS contract, the addition of TCU is one that
will stabilize the Big East and have minimal financial effect,
said Chris Monasch, the athletic director at St. John’s
University, another non-football member.  “It may have a zero-sum impact,” Monasch said in a
telephone interview. “In years that you have to play TCU in a
particular sport, you might not make another long non-conference
trip. So it depends how each school manages that. The bigger
picture is it helps stabilize the league, which has long-term
ramifications in a positive way for finances.”  Other Big East non-football members include Notre Dame,
Georgetown, Marquette, Seton Hall and DePaul.  Del Conte said he had no knowledge whether there will be
further conference realignment at any point soon.  “Today we are wanted by a great conference in the Big East
and we have a home,” he said. “So you can never tell what’s
going to happen in the future, but we’re pretty fired up about
what’s going to happen now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 