-- F&C Asset Holds on to Housing Development, Tata Consultancy After Probes
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-11-29T06:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/f-c-asset-holds-on-to-housing-development-tata-consultancy-after-probes.html
F&C Asset Management Plc , a U.K.
fund that owns shares in India’s largest software services
company and mortgage lender, is holding on to the investments
because the companies will be sheltered from corruption probes
that drove a three-week decline in the benchmark index.  The  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  has fallen 8.2
percent from an all-time high on Nov. 5 as officials said they
will investigate the sale of phone licenses for below-market
prices and authorities arrested eight Indian bankers and brokers
following a bribery probe. A record $28.7 billion of stock
purchases this year by overseas investors including F&C Asset
helped drive the Sensex’s  valuation  to 18.3 times estimated
profit, the most of the world’s 10 biggest benchmark gauges.  “These issues are manageable so long as there is no
systemic risk,”  Sam Mahtani , who helps oversee about $2.5
billion as a director of emerging-market equities at F&C Asset
in London, said in a telephone interview on Nov. 26. “I
wouldn’t be changing anything at the moment.”  F&C Asset funds bought shares of  Housing Development
Finance Corp. , the country’s biggest mortgage lender, in July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mahtani also holds  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. , India’s largest software services
provider,  HDFC Bank Ltd. , the nation’s No. 3 lender, and  Infosys
Technologies Ltd. , Tata’s largest rival.  The stocks all climbed more than 18 percent this year. The
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, has risen 10 percent in 2010.  The telecommunications ministry said Nov. 19 it will review
whether to revoke mobile phone licenses after the Comptroller
and Auditor General of India said the 2008 auction of the
licenses lacked transparency and was arbitrary.  Banker Arrests  Indian and foreign telephone companies including Bharti
Airtel Ltd., Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. and Vodafone Group Plc
may have to repay more than $1 billion each after criticism of
the sale, the Financial Times reported Nov. 25, citing two
senior government officials it didn’t identify.  Federal investigators on Nov. 24 arrested Ramachandran R.
Nair, chief executive officer of LIC Housing Finance Ltd.,
 Rajesh Sharma , chairman of Mumbai-based securities firm Money
Matters Financial Services Ltd. and executives at three lenders.
The Central Bureau of Investigation accused Sharma of conspiring
with Nair to bribe state-run lenders’ executives in exchange for
loans for clients and confidential information.  Bank of India and other state-run banks were asked by
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  to check their “exposures”
to the companies. State-run banks account for 77 percent of
credit in Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy.  ‘Risk Premium’  Satish Maneshinde, the lawyer for Money Matters’ Sharma,
declined to comment. LIC Housing Finance spokesman Sudipto Sil
said he didn’t have information on Nair’s lawyer.  “The proliferation of recent scams does tarnish the
reputation of India in the eyes of a foreign investor, to some
degree,”  John Praveen , the Newark, New Jersey-based chief
investment strategist at Prudential International Investments
Advisers LLC, which oversees $750 billion in assets, said Nov.
25. “However, corruption is not a new phenomenon in India or in
other emerging economies and foreign investors have to a large
degree incorporated corruption into the risk premium.”  Praveen said he’s maintaining his 2011 forecast of 23,500
for the Sensex. The gauge closed at 19,136.61 on Nov. 26.  India ranked 87th out of 178 countries in Transparency
International’s 2010  Corruption Perceptions Index , scoring the
same as Albania, Liberia and Jamaica. China was rated less
corrupt in 78th place.  Asset Growth  Overseas  investors  sold a net 5.32 billion rupees ($116
million) of Indian shares on Nov. 25, reducing this year’s
record inflows to 1.316 trillion rupees, according to the latest
 data  from the Securities & Exchange Board of India. They bought
a net 17.8 billion rupees the previous day, the data show. Data
for Nov. 26 is due today.  F&C Asset Management, which traces its origins to the
launch of the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust in 1868,
boosted assets under management by 14 percent to 108.2 billion
pounds ($169 billion) in the third quarter, according to the
group’s  website .  Housing Development, HDFC Bank, Tata Consultancy and
Infosys, stocks that Mahtani holds, are among the  top 10
performers  on the 30-member Sensex in 2010.  “Stick to quality,” said Mahtani. “I’ve got a portfolio
where I can sleep at night.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  