-- Federer `Saves Best for Last' With ATP Finals Win Over Top-Ranked Nadal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-29T00:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/federer-saves-best-for-last-with-atp-finals-win-over-top-ranked-nadal.html
Roger Federer , who lost his No. 1
tennis ranking to  Rafael Nadal  in June, said his victory
yesterday over the Spaniard in the year-end  ATP World Tour Finals 
was “extra special.”  The second-ranked Swiss beat Nadal 6-3, 3-6, 6-1 at the O2
arena in London and joined  Ivan Lendl  and  Pete Sampras  as the
only men to have won the event five times.  “I’m just really happy the way I was able to finish the
season in style, playing some of my best tennis, really saving
the best for last,” Federer told a news conference. “Obviously
beating Rafa in the finals makes it extra special because of the
year he had.”  Nadal, 24, pushed the 29-year-old winner of a men’s record
16 Grand Slam singles tennis titles off the top spot when he
took his fifth French Open championship in June. That prevented
Federer from tying Sampras’ record of 286 weeks at No. 1. The
Spanish left-hander went on to win Wimbledon and in September
became the youngest man since tennis turned professional to win
all four tennis majors with his first U.S. Open title.  Federer, who had made the London finals without dropping a
set, produced 32 winners including 7 aces, while Nadal had 11
winners including one ace.  “I tried my best, but he was better than me,” Nadal told
a news conference.  Although Federer has now beaten Nadal in each of their
three indoor matches, he trails 14-8 in career
meetings. Nadal, who has yet to win the ATP Finals trophy, lost
to Federer in the semifinals in 2006 and 2007 when the event was
held indoors in Shanghai.  Fading  Federer had started the season well, beating Britain’s  Andy
Murray  in the finals of the  Australian Open . Nadal regained the
No. 1 ranking after Federer was defeated in the quarterfinals of
Roland Garros by  Robin Soderling  of Sweden, a loss that ended
his record streak of 23 consecutive Grand Slam semifinals
appearances.  At  Wimbledon , six-time champion Federer was ousted from the
quarterfinals by  Tomas Berdych  of the Czech Republic. After
hiring  Paul Annacone , who used to work with Sampras, as his
coach shortly after Wimbledon, Federer reached the semifinals of
the U.S. Open, where he lost to third-ranked  Novak Djokovic  of
Serbia despite holding two match points.  “I had to regain some confidence,” Federer said, when
asked what difference Annacone had made to his playing style.  New Coach  “That only comes through winning matches,” he added.
“After having somewhat of a disappointing clay, Halle,
Wimbledon stretch, where I wasn’t able to win any tournaments,
maybe didn’t play some of my best tennis, played a bit passive,
it was important, once the hard court season came around, that I
was able to pick up my game, start moving better, start feeling
well physically and mentally. I’m sure Paul has helped in this
regard.”  It was only the second time Nadal and Federer played each
other this year. The Spaniard beat Federer in straight sets in
the final of the Madrid Masters clay court tournament in May.  Before yesterday, the last time the two had faced each
other in the British capital had been in July 2008, when Nadal
defeated Federer in five sets at Wimbledon in what seven-time
Grand Slam singles champion  John McEnroe  called the greatest
match he’d ever seen.  Watched by a sellout crowd of 17,500 spectators including
Rolling Stone band member  Ronnie Wood , actor  Kevin Spacey  and
French national soccer team player  Thierry Henry , Federer
dominated the rallies against Nadal in the first set yesterday.
He sent 14 winners past the Spaniard, who only managed two.  ‘Unplayable’  “He played unbelievable,” Nadal said. “In the beginning
it was unplayable.”  After breaking serve for a 3-1 lead in the second set,
Nadal evened the score at one set all as Federer failed to pick
up a forehand aimed at his feet as he rushed to the net.  In the final set, Nadal failed to hold serve at 2-1 down in
spite of holding two game points. Instead, Federer attacked on
the return, breaking for a 3-1 lead as Nadal sent a forehand
wide. Nadal continued to struggle as he also lost his next
service game. Serving for his fifth title at 5-1 as the crowd
cheered, Federer screamed and raised both arms as he won the
match with a forehand that landed on the baseline.  “I stayed offensive,” Federer said. “I knew in the long
run that could be vital, which it was at the end, so I’m very
happy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the O2 arena through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  