-- First Republic May Raise $280 Million Through Bank's Initial Stock Offer
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-11-29T18:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/first-republic-plans-to-sell-stock-at-24-to-27-a-share-in-ipo.html
First Republic Bank, the San
Francisco lender sold to private-equity firms by  Bank of America
Corp.  at midyear, plans to raise about $280.5 million from an
initial public offering.  First Republic will sell 11 million shares at $24 to $27
each, according to a statement from the company today. After
deducting fees, expenses and cash that goes to selling
shareholders, proceeds to the company would be $92.4 million,
assuming an offering price of $25.50, according to the firm.
Owners include General Atlantic LLC and Colony Capital LLC.  Investors paid $1.86 billion for First Republic, according
to the bank’s  offering . Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender
by assets, gained control of the firm when it took over Merrill
Lynch & Co. in January 2009. Merrill Lynch paid $1.8 billion for
the bank in 2007.  First Republic had $22 billion in assets and $19 billion in
deposits as of Sept. 30, according to the statement. Bank of
America has $2.34 trillion in  assets .  Institutional and individual holders are selling 7 million
shares, while the firm will offer 4 million. General Atlantic
and Colony Capital, which each owns 21.8 percent, are both
selling a 2 percent stake. Other holders selling shares include
Wellington Management Co., Pine Eagle LLC and GL Partners LP.  Big Board Listing  The firm is seeking a listing on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker FRC, according to its announcement of
the offering. First Republic won’t pay cash dividends on common
shares in the “foreseeable future,”  the company said.  First Republic said in the offering that its foreclosure
process is sound and it hasn’t needed to halt sales of
foreclosed homes. Banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank
of America stopped property  seizures  in September and October to
examine cases of so-called “robo-signing,” when employees signed
foreclosure documents without personally checking that they were
accurate.  First Republic will use proceeds from the sale “for
general corporate purposes, which may include, among other
things, funding loans or purchasing investment securities for
our portfolio,” the firm said in the filing.  The sale may be priced as early as Dec. 6, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank
of America, New York-based Morgan Stanley and New York-based
JPMorgan are managing the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at   dkraut@bloomberg.net  