-- Five Stocks Show Growth at a Reasonable Price: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-11-29T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/five-stocks-show-growth-at-a-reasonable-price-john-dorfman.html
During this season of consuming
dishes that are a bit richer than usual, I like to serve up some
stocks that are a little higher in valuation than I recommend
the rest of the year. You can call these GARP stocks because
they reflect growth at a reasonable price.  GARP is a sort of no-man’s-land in between value investing,
which is devoted to searching for bargains, and growth
investing, which is geared to finding companies that will
increase their earnings rapidly.  I’m a value investor, and one of my rules is to stick to
stocks trading at 15 times earnings or less. I’ll stick to that
discipline the other 51 weeks of the year, but this week I want
to highlight some companies selling for 15 to 20 times earnings
that have impressive growth and outstanding profitability.  Consider, for example,  KLA-Tencor Corp. , which makes
systems to monitor production and quality at semiconductor
manufacturing plants.  I’ve kicked myself for failing to buy KLA-Tencor in 2008,
when the stock fell to almost $15 a  share . On the other hand,
it’s probably a better buy now, at about $37, than it was three
years ago at about $62.  After posting a loss in fiscal 2009, the company, located
in Milipitas, California, returned to profitability in the
fiscal year that ended in June 2010, earning $1.23 a share.  Now the semiconductor industry is reviving and analysts
expect KLA will  earn  a record $3.96 a share in the current
fiscal year. The shares trade at about 16 times earnings.  Baking Soda  You might be surprised to see  Church & Dwight Co.  on my
GARP list. The company dates back to the 19th century and is
best known for producing Arm & Hammer baking soda.  This isn’t a stodgy company. It’s had six consecutive years
of rising earnings. This year, if analysts’ estimates are right,
Church & Dwight’s earnings will rise 17 percent, to a record
$3.99 a share.  The Princeton, New Jersey-based company has shown a deft
touch in acquiring and marketing consumer brands. Its stable
includes Nair hair-removal products, Pepsodent toothpaste and
Trojan condoms.  Flir Systems Inc. , based in Wilsonville, Oregon, is a stock
I owned a decade ago, rode to a nice gain and sold too soon.
Flir makes night-vision equipment used by the military and law-
enforcement agencies. It also manufactures thermal imaging
products and camera surveillance systems.  Less for Defense  Investors sense that the U.S. defense budget may be cut or
capped. They also see lower troop levels ahead in Iraq and
Afghanistan. As a result, Flir stock has fallen to about $27
from a peak of about $45 in 2008.  Yet the company’s sales and  earnings  are higher now than
they were in 2008. For example, analysts expect diluted earnings
per share of $1.54 this year compared with $1.28 two years ago.  Flir stock sells for 18 times earnings, and the company is
debt-free.  Oceaneering International Inc. , with headquarters in
Houston, is my next GARP selection. It provides products and
services for the offshore oil and gas industry, including
underwater robots.  The stock has careened wildly this year, starting at about
$59, falling to almost $40 after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill,
and then bouncing to about $69 now.  I think investors have correctly figured out that more
stringent regulation of offshore wells can paradoxically be good
for this company. Offshore drillers will keep its robots busy
checking and repairing undersea welds, connections and safety
equipment.  No Debt  Analysts estimate Oceaneering will earn $3.61 a share in
2010, which would make this year its best so far. The stock
sells for 19 times earnings. This company, too, is debt-free.  I’ll conclude with New York-based  Steve Madden Ltd. , which
designs and markets women’s shoes, and also licenses a variety
of clothing. The company has been profitable every year since
1995, and analysts expect it to show a 44 percent earnings jump
to $2.62 a share this year.  The stock has already come a long way, rising from less
than $8 a share in late 2004 to about $45 now. Yet considering
the company’s rapid earnings growth and 21 percent  return  on
stockholders’ equity last year, I don’t think 18 times earnings
is too much for an investor to pay.  My GARP picks are a touch expensive, yet probably worth it.  What I won’t do is recommend stocks selling for more than
20 times earnings, roughly the priciest one-third of the market.
You will have to visit your favorite growth-stock columnist to
read about those.  Disclosure note: I own shares of Oceaneering International
for clients and personally. I have no long or short positions in
the other stocks discussed in this week’s column.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 John Dorfman  at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  