-- Flowers Said to Join Singapore Wealth Fund in $1.5 Billion BTG Stake Bid
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-11-30T01:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/flowers-said-to-join-singapore-wealth-fund-in-1-5-billion-btg-stake-bid.html
Financier  J. Christopher Flowers  is
in talks to buy a stake in Brazil’s Banco BTG Pactual SA as part
of an investor group that includes  Government of Singapore
Investment Corp. , three people with knowledge of the deal said.  Andre Esteves , the Brazilian billionaire who controls Rio
de Janeiro-based BTG, is in talks to sell about 15 percent of
the firm to the group for about $1.5 billion to fund expansion,
according to the people, who asked not to be named because the
plans are private. An announcement may come as early as this
week, the people said.  Flowers, 53, is known for takeovers of big financial
companies, such as Japan’s Shinsei Bank. Last year, his firm
helped lead a group of private-equity and hedge fund managers to
pump $1.55 billion into the collapsed IndyMac Bank in California.
In 2008, he personally bought the First National Bank of
Cainesville in Missouri, which had $14 million of assets,
renaming it Flowers National Bank.  The deal for BTG would be Flowers’s first investment in
Brazil, one of the people said.  Esteves and his partners bought Banco BTG Pactual, Brazil’s
biggest equity underwriter, back from UBS AG for $2.5 billion
last year. The bank, which cited market conditions in canceling
an initial public offering in June, has benefitted as foreign
demand for emerging-market stocks increases,  Guilherme Paes ,
head of investment banking at Banco BTG Pactual, said in August.  A press official at an outside agency representing BTG, who
asked not to be named, declined to comment. A call to Flowers’s
office wasn’t returned.  Jennifer Lewis , a spokeswoman for GIC,
as the Singapore fund is known, did not immediately comment.  GIC, the manager of more than $100 billion of Singapore
reserves, was first reported to be in talks about buying a stake
in BTG in early September. GIC said in its annual report on Sept.
27 that it will continue to boost investments in higher-growth
emerging economies as expansion in developed nations slows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  