-- Freud on Cocaine, Opium Ball Boost ‘High Society’ Drugs Exhibit
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-11-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/freud-on-cocaine-opium-ball-boost-high-society-drugs-exhibit.html
Until a century or so ago in Europe,
you could buy cocaine and heroin over the counter, drink
absinthe as an aperitif, and smoke cannabis cigarettes anywhere.  Getting high was deemed appropriate, beneficial, and even
cool centuries before the hippies came along. The “ High
Society ” exhibition at London’s Wellcome Collection (through
Feb. 27, 2011) tells the story.  The show’s first display will set off any cop’s alarm
bells. There’s a cannabis bong, a heroin user’s kit, and a
homemade crack pipe: The plastic water bottle is capped with
punctured foil, and fitted with a ballpoint-pen tube that the
crack would be smoked through.  Then come much older, though no less illicit, displays --
real samples that required controlled drugs licenses from the
U.K. Home Office to be put on view.  On show are a bottle of “Cocain 20%” from a 1900 English
dental kit, a medical dose of heroin dated around 1900, and the
biggest haul of all: a 19th-century ball of Indian opium, which
curators say is enough for as many as 10,000 doses.  The volleyball-sized, dung-like sphere is the kind that the
British shipped to China in the mid-19th century, sparking the
Opium Wars. It’s encased in two vitrines, not one, to prevent
the aroma from wafting up visitors’ nostrils.  Nearby is proof of just how long ago people were taking
drugs, be it for pleasure or for pain relief. A 6th-century B.C.
Babylonian tablet recommends the plant “qunnabu” for a
gynecological condition; it’s among the earliest written pieces
of evidence of cannabis for medical use.  Inca Nobility  The Incas considered drugs a status symbol. The silver
statuette of a male deity from 14th- or 15th-century Peru has
bulging cheeks: Chewing coca leaves was a mark of nobility.  Until they were banned in the early 20th century, drugs
were taken by great minds, too. In an 1884 pamphlet (“Ueber
Coca”), psychoanalyst  Sigmund Freud  praises the medical uses of
cocaine; his personal copy is here. The Sherlock Holmes novel
“The Sign of Four,” here in an 1890 edition, opens with the
detective shooting up with a 7 percent solution of cocaine:
Holmes also likes morphine. His creator  Arthur Conan Doyle  later
weaned the character off drugs as public opinion shifted.  The strongest of the exhibition’s newer sections, “Self-
Experimentation,” has two 1950s ink drawings done under the
influence of mescaline by the French writer-artist  Henri
Michaux . Minute and densely detailed, they seem depictions of a
crowded ant colony.  Mayhew on Mescaline  Another one-off mescaline user was  Christopher Mayhew , a
member of the British parliament who was filmed taking it in a
water glass for a 1955 documentary that never aired.  The well-groomed Mayhew, hands neatly clasped over one
knee, never loses his poise or impeccable manner. Yet he becomes
less coherent, and is unable to repeat a specific sentence or do
subtractions. “I can’t concentrate quite so well,” he says. He
then describes a plain red curtain as having “the most
extraordinary gradations of mauve, and lights.”  “ High Society ” is by no means exhaustive, yet has much to
grab the attention, and puts drug taking in an intriguing
historical perspective. Visitors can share their own experiences
anonymously, via the computer in the last room.  “High Society” is at Wellcome Collection, 183 Euston
Road, London NW1 2BE. Information: +44-20-7611-2222 or
 http://www.wellcomecollection.org/whats-on/exhibitions.aspx   ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London at 
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 