-- Spanish Bonds Drop Most in Euro Era as Irish Contagion Spreads
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-29T16:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/german-government-bonds-open-lower-after-european-union-ireland-bailout.html
Spanish 10-year bonds slid by the
most since the euro’s debut, leading a drop by the securities of
high-deficit euro-region nations, as a bailout package for
Ireland failed to damp concern the fiscal crisis is spreading.  The decline drove the extra yield investors demand to hold
Spanish and Italian 10-year securities instead of benchmark
German bunds to euro-era records. Irish bonds slid even after
the agreement for an 85 billion-euro ($111.4 billion) rescue,
and Italian and Belgian securities dropped as the nations sold
debt at higher yields.  “The problem is that the absence of confidence spreads
right across the board,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market
strategy Lloyds TSB Corporate Bank in London. “Policy makers
must be sitting there scratching their heads.”  The 10-year Spanish  bond yield  jumped 26 basis points to
5.48 percent, the highest since 2002, at 4:30 p.m. in London.
The 4.85 percent security maturing in October 2020 declined
1.91, or 19.10 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 95.28. The
difference in yield, or spread, over bunds touched a euro-era
record of 273 basis points.  Italian 10-year  yields  advanced 21 basis points to 4.64
percent and the yield on similar-maturity Irish bonds increased
12 basis points to 9.47 percent. The euro weakened as much as
1.3 percent to $1.3064, the lowest in more than two months.  The cost of insuring against default on Portuguese and
Spanish debt climbed to record levels, CMA data showed.  External Support  “The details of the Irish package were so far unsuccessful
in soothing market sentiment,” said Kornelius Purps , a fixed-
income strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “Indeed, the
opposite is true, with Spain and Italy spreads wider and the
euro lower.”  The debt crisis that started a year ago in Greece deepened
this month amid concern bondholders would be forced to share the
cost of future bailouts. The  average  yield for 10-year debt from
Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy reached a euro-era
record as speculation intensified that other nations will
require external support after Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen 
conceded on Nov. 21 that the country needed a rescue.  Ireland said it will pay average interest of 5.8 percent on
the bailout loans agreed yesterday. European governments also
fleshed out plans to give the International Monetary Fund a role
in determining losses for bondholders, should countries have
difficulties meeting obligations after 2013.  The plan “increases incentives for market participants to
price bonds issued by European sovereigns more closely on
underlying default probabilities,”  Laurence Boone  and  Frank Engels , economists at Barclays Capital, wrote in a research
report today.  Roubini Comments  Spain is the “big elephant” in the European debt crisis
because there may not be enough money to bail out the Iberian
nation, said  Nouriel Roubini , the New York University professor
who predicted the global financial crisis.  Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  told reporters today
in Brussels that additional deficit-cutting measures would
threaten the economic recovery in her country.  “No one can ask us for more austerity measures because it
would make matters worse and endanger our recovery from the
crisis,” Salgado said. “The measures are taking us where we
want to be,” she said.  Data published today showed the European Central Bank
bought the most government bonds in two months last week as
concern mounted that the debt crisis would spread. ECB Governing
Council member  Ewald Nowotny  said the aid package for Ireland
will take pressure off other European countries and will calm
financial markets. Central bank policy makers meet this week
amid speculation they may delay plans to withdraw liquidity
provisions to lenders in the region.  Greek Rally  Greek bonds were little changed after the nation received
an extension on repayments of its emergency loans. The Greek 10-
year yield was at 11.91 percent, as the nation was granted an
extra four-and-a-half years to repay emergency loans to match
the seven-year term for Ireland’s rescue plan.  Italy’s borrowing costs rose at a sale of 6.8 billion euros
of bonds. The Treasury sold 3 billion euros of securities due
March 2021 to yield 4.43 percent, compared with 3.89 percent at
a sale on Oct. 28, data from the Bank of Italy showed today. The
Treasury also sold 2.5 billion euros of securities due in
November 2013 and 1.34 billion euros of floating-rate notes
maturing in 2017. The Treasury had set a maximum of 7 billion
euros for the sale.  Borrowing Costs  Belgium’s borrowing costs for 10-year bonds rose to the
highest level in nine months as the nation raised 2 billion
euros from a sale of securities due in 2014, 2020 and 2035.  The yield on the 10-year Belgian security climbed 21 basis
points to 3.90 percent. Its  yield premium  over benchmark German
bunds reached 116 basis points, the most this year.  Spain is scheduled to sell up to 2.75 billion euros of
bonds due in October 2013 on Dec. 2, the day after Portugal
auctions 350-day bills.  The yield on the German bund fell two basis points to 2.76
percent. European confidence in the economic outlook improved to
the highest in three years in November, according to an index
published today by the European Commission. A separate report
from the Brussels-based commission showed growth in gross
domestic product may weaken to 1.5 percent in 2011 from 1.7
percent this year.  Irish bonds lost 11 percent this month and 16 percent for
the year to date, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Portuguese securities handed investors a 5.1 percent loss this
month and Spanish debt dropped 5.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  