-- Gates Global Vaccine Campaign to Raise $3.7 Billion for Immunization
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2010-11-29T11:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/global-vaccine-campaign-to-lobby-government-leaders-to-raise-3-7-billion.html
The Global Alliance for Vaccine
Immunization, co-founded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation,
will create an advocacy group to raise $3.7 billion amid reduced
donor contributions following the global financial crisis.  The group is expected to start operating in the first
quarter of 2011 and will include human-rights activists who will
lobby government leaders for money,  Mary Robinson , the former
Irish President and outgoing chairwoman of the alliance, said in
an interview in Kigali,  Rwanda , yesterday. The funding is needed
to introduce new vaccines and roll out existing ones, she said.  “This group will speak to presidents and prime ministers
about how cost-effective it is to ensure health through
immunization,” Robinson said. “We have a strong advocacy case.
We believe at the next fundraising meeting in June, we will get
all the $3.7 billion and more.”  GAVI, as the alliance is known, says it needs $7 billion
over the next five years to fund an immunization campaign aimed
at reducing child mortality by 40 percent, preventing 3.9
million deaths by 2015. That would help developing countries
achieve  Millennium Development Goals  on child deaths and
maternal health, Robinson said.  GAVI has raised $2.7 billion selling bonds, the same amount
as has been mobilized from various governments and the Bell &
Melinda Gate Foundation, since it was founded in 2002. Last
week, the alliance sold A$400 million ($387.4 million) of five-
year bonds in Sydney, according to a statement on its  website .  Pneumonia Vaccine  Next year, GAVI plans to roll out a pneumonia vaccine in 13
countries mostly in Africa, after its successful introduction in
developing countries, Robinson said. Pneumonia is the biggest
killer of children globally and GAVI estimates that the vaccine
may save as many as 900,000 lives by 2015.  GAVI can guarantee a market for the vaccine for as long as
10 years and a price of $3.50 per dose for companies that commit
to developing and guaranteeing supplies under so-called Advance
Market Commitments, or AMCs, said Dan Thomas, a spokesman for
GAVI. The vaccine is currently sold at $90 per dose in the U.S.,
according to GAVI.  AMCs are legally binding agreements for an amount of funds
to subsidize the purchase of vaccines against diseases that
cause high morbidity and mortality in developing nations.  Pfizer Inc. , the world’s largest pharmaceuticals
manufacturer, and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.’s biggest drug
maker, were the first two companies to commit to the AMC and
their first shipments of vaccines will be sent to Nicaragua
before the end of this year, and to Kenya in January, GAVI said.  Verification  Panacea Biotech Ltd.  and  Serum Institute of India Ltd. ,
both based in India, have registered to sign up to the accord
and are set to begin undergoing verification by GAVI and the
World Health Organization, said Thomas.  On Nov. 26, GAVI said it had cut the average price of the
pentavalent vaccine to $2.58 from $2.97. The five-in-one drug
protects against  diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, haemophilus
influenza type B (Hib) and hepatitis B . The reduction is a
result of Serum Institute beginning to manufacture and sell the
vaccine for $1.58 after it increased the number of doses
available in each vial, lowering packaging costs, Thomas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Malingha Doya  in Kigali via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 