-- Grain Regions in Australia Forecast to Get Rains, Sparking Harvest Concern
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-11-29T02:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/grain-regions-in-australia-forecast-to-get-rains-sparking-harvest-concern.html
Grain regions in New South Wales,
Australia’s largest wheat-producing state, are forecast to
receive heavy rainfall this week, raising concern that crop
quality will be downgraded and harvesting further delayed.  The north-west and central-west slopes and plains may get
about 100 millimeters (3.9 inches) to 130 millimeters through to
Dec. 2, after some areas already received twice the average rain
for November, Dmitriy Danchuk, duty forecaster at the Bureau of
Meteorology in Sydney, said by phone today. Rain is also
forecast in southern New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria.  GrainCorp Ltd. , eastern Australia’s largest grain handler,
said last week that the harvest was about four weeks behind
normal because of wet weather, and the downgrading of crops to
feed quality may cut shipment volumes. A La Nina event has
contributed to record Australian August-to-October rainfall,
according to the Bureau of Meteorology.  “Further delays are particularly undesirable, but not only
that, we are going to have significant quality ramifications,”
 Luke Mathews , a strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
said from Sydney. Exports would fall below earlier expectations
because of the rain, he said.  March-delivery wheat gained 0.7 percent to $6.92 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade at 1:20 p.m. in Melbourne, taking
this year’s advance to 28 percent.  GrainCorp has collected 4.28 million metric tons of grain
so far this season, the company said in an e-mailed report today.
Total receivals by the company this season may be 10 million to
13 million tons, the Sydney-based handler forecast last week.  Harvest Progress  Harvesting was 60 percent completed in Queensland, while in
New South Wales it was 45 percent finished in the north and 20
percent done in the south, the company said.  Recent  rain  would cause up to a week’s additional delay
before harvesting resumes in southern New South Wales and in
Victoria it would delay progress by a one to two weeks and
extend the season beyond Christmas, the company said.  Slower-maturing crops this year would help reduce the
adverse effect on quality from rain in southern New South Wales
and Victoria, while increased pasture growth also provided a
preferred feed for locusts compared with cereals, GrainCorp
spokesman  David Ginns  said by phone.  The company wasn’t receiving “huge quantities” of feed-
grade wheat at this point, he said.  Wheat production in Australia may be 23.3 million tons this
season, Rabobank Groep NV forecast in a report last week.
Exports may be 14.3 million tons, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  