-- Dow, Sasol Sued by Greenpeace Over Espionage Claims
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-29T23:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/greenpeace-accuses-dow-chemical-of-espionage-in-lawsuit.html
Dow Chemical Co.  and Sasol North
America Inc. were sued for espionage by a unit of Greenpeace
International, the nonprofit environmental advocacy group, which
alleges the chemical companies illegally searched its trash,
hacked into its computers, and tapped its phones.  From 1998 to 2000, Dow, Sasol and two public relations
firms conspired to infiltrate and steal confidential information
in order to thwart Greenpeace Inc.’s environmental campaigns,
according to a complaint filed today in federal court in
Washington. Greenpeace said the spying included breaking into
locked trash bins outside its Washington headquarters and
infiltrating meetings and electronic communications.  “These unacceptable and underhanded tactics interfered
with valuable work we were undertaking to protect public health
and expose environmental crimes,” Greenpeace USA Executive
Director  Phil Radford  said in a statement.  Greenpeace, during the time the group claims the companies
were spying upon it, was criticizing Dow for using chlorine in
its manufacturing process. Greenpeace also was examining Dow’s
sales of products containing genetically modified organisms,
according to the complaint.  Chemical Pollutants  Greenpeace also was working with communities it says were
threatened by chemical pollutants, including Lake Charles,
Louisiana, according to its press statement announcing today’s
court filing. Sasol maintains a manufacturing facility at Lake
Charles, according to that company’s website.  The 57-page complaint contains nine counts, including civil
racketeering, trespassing, and invasion of privacy claims.
Greenpeace is seeking compensatory, consequential and treble
damages, stating the amount would be determined at trial.  “We have not been served with this suit and, therefore, we
are not in a position to immediately comment about the alleged
activities of over a decade ago,”  Gregory Baldwin , a spokesman
for Midland, Michigan-based Dow, said in an e-mail. “Once we
have been served we will provide an appropriate response.”  Ann McWatters, in-house legal counsel for Houston-based
Sasol North America Inc., didn’t immediately respond to a voice-
mail message seeking comment. Sasol North America is a unit of
Johannesburg-based  Sasol Ltd. , according to the company’s
website.  Ketchum, Dezenhall Firms  Also named as defendants were Ketchum Inc., a public
relations firm based in New York;  Dezenhall Resources Ltd ., a
Washington-based public relations firm; and four former
employees from Beckett Brown International Inc., a private
security firm.  Robyn Massey, a spokeswoman for Ketchum, said she could not
comment on any specifics because the firm had yet to formally
receive the papers. “We will review it thoroughly and address
it in the appropriate venue,” Massey said in an e-mail. “As a
company that views integrity as fundamental to our values, we
take this matter seriously.”  Dezenhall didn’t immediately respond to a phone message
seeking comment on the Greenpeace allegations. The complaint
says that Ketchum worked with Dow in its effort to target
Greenpeace while Dezenhall worked with Sasol.  The spying allegations in the complaint were first reported
by Mother Jones magazine in 2008, which said it obtained
information and internal documents from a former investor of
Beckett Brown. The company, which changed its name to S2i Corp.
in 2000, couldn’t be located for comment.  George Ferris of Severna Park, Maryland, was one of the
former Becket Brown employees who allegedly carried out the
Greenpeace espionage, according to the group’s complaint.  ‘We Never Did’  Ferris confirmed in a telephone interview today that he did
work for the security firm. He denied the allegations contained
in the complaint. “We never did any work for or against
Greenpeace,’” he said.  The suit alleges that “in or about” 1998, Dow and Sasol,
then known as CONDEA Vista, hired Beckett Brown to spy on
Greenpeace and report on the group’s financial support, internal
operations, plans, and activities. The complaint says Sasol and
Dezenhall paid Beckett Brown more than $200,000. The suit says
Ketchum, working on behalf of Dow, paid Beckett Brown more than
$125,000.  Greenpeace claims Beckett Brown relied on subcontractors
including off-duty police officers from Baltimore and Washington
to gain access to internal Greenpeace documents. According to
the complaint, the documents included campaign planning data,
donor letters, legal papers, financial reports, and credit card
account numbers. The complaint also alleges the defendants stole
Social Security numbers and personal bank account statements
from its employees.  ‘Toxic Chemicals’  “Many of the documents that defendants unlawfully obtained
from Greenpeace contain confidential strategy information
regarding environmental campaigns against toxic chemicals,
global warming, nuclear energy, genetic engineering and the
pollution of fisheries and oceans,” the complaint states.
“Such campaigns directly and indirectly concern the financial
interests of Dow, Sasol, Ketchum and Dezenhall.”  The case is Greenpeace Inc. v. The Dow Chemical Company,
10-cv-02037, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Schoenberg  in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 