-- TIAA-CREF, John Hancock Life in Group Targeting Energy
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-11-29T18:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/tiaa-cref-john-hancock-life-in-group-targeting-energy-projects.html
Hunt Power LP, TIAA-CREF and John
Hancock Life Insurance Co. are among five companies planning to
invest $2.1 billion in electricity transmission and gas storage
projects, the companies said today.  Marubeni Corp . and OPTrust Private Markets Group also are
in the group forming real-estate investment trusts to develop
and buy electricity and gas transmission assets, mostly in
Texas, the Great Plains and the U.S. Southwest, according to a
statement.  The trusts will be managed by subsidiaries of Dallas-based
Hunt Consolidated Inc. that will invest as much as $322.5
million in cash and assets. Marubeni of Tokyo will invest as
much as $500 million, John Hancock, a unit of Canada’s  Manulife
Financial Corp ., and New York-based TIAA-CREF, which oversees
more than $400 billion for teachers and academic researchers,
will each invest $450 million. Toronto-based OPTrust will invest
about $400 million, according to the statement.  “This is an innovative direct investment alliance,
leveraging the expertise and active participation of the
members, within a new REIT structure that will help to mobilize
capital to invest in the electricity and gas transmission and
distribution sectors,” Kirk Baker, senior vice president of
Hunt Power, said in the statement.  The companies will form the Electric Infrastructure
Alliance of America and Gas Infrastructure Alliance of America
as real-estate investment trusts. The electric REIT will acquire
an interest in Sharyland Distribution and Transmission Services,
an affiliate of Hunt Power, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  