-- Microsoft Gets U.S. Supreme Court Hearing in I4i Case Over Word Software
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-29T21:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/microsoft-gets-u-s-supreme-court-hearing-in-case-against-i4i-of-toronto.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  will consider
making some patents more vulnerable to legal challenge, agreeing
to hear  Microsoft Corp. ’s appeal in a case that forced changes
in the company’s Word software and may cost it $300 million.  Microsoft, fighting a verdict won by closely held  I4i LP ,
says the federal appeals court that handles patent cases is
making it too hard for those accused of infringement to argue
that a patent never should have been issued and is invalid.  The world’s largest software maker has support in its
appeal from more than a dozen publicly traded companies,
including  Apple Inc.  and  Google Inc.  Apple told the justices
that the patent system “is tilting out of balance,” giving
disproportionate power to people who secure patents of
questionable legitimacy.  The award stood as the largest ever upheld by an appeals
court in a patent case. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in Washington concluded that Microsoft didn’t
prove that the disputed patent was based on technology that was
already in the marketplace.  Microsoft, which had $5.41 billion in  profit  in the most
recent quarter, hasn’t yet paid any damages to I4i. The unit
that sells Office is Microsoft’s  biggest , with $5.13 billion in
sales in the quarter that ended Sept. 30. Microsoft rose six
cents to $25.31 at 4 p.m. in trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Traditional Presumption  In its ruling, the appeals court said Microsoft needed to
offer “clear and convincing evidence” to overcome the
traditional presumption that patents approved by the  U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office  are valid.  Microsoft contends that a less-demanding standard should
apply when a jury is presented with evidence about pre-existing
technology that the patent examiner didn’t consider. In such a
case, “there is no factual determination with respect to
patentability that warrants deference in the form of a clear-
and-convincing-evidence standard,” the Redmond, Washington-
based company argued.  Toronto-based I4i urged the Supreme Court not to hear the
appeal, arguing that the clear and convincing standard is a
longstanding rule that has encouraged innovation.  “The heightened burden benefits the public by increasing
inventors’ incentive to commit the resources required for
innovation and then to disclose their inventions,” I4i argued.  Markup Language  The case concerns a method developed by I4i for editing
some documents using XML, a so-called markup language that tells
the computer how text should appear. I4i created a way to store
the content and the XML codes separately, making it easier for
users to work alone with either the content or the codes.  The disputed feature is one used by large companies to add
special data to Word files, such as information in forms
submitted by customers.  Customers  including drugmakers Merck &
Co. and Bayer AG use I4i’s software to make sure that people get
the correct and most up-to-date information on the labels of
their medicine.  In its 2007 lawsuit, I4i accused Microsoft of incorporating
the invention into the larger company’s Word program, which is
used by 500 million people worldwide.  Microsoft argued in defense that I4i had included its
innovation in a product it sold to a client more than a year
before it filed its patent application. That prior use would
have rendered the invention ineligible for patenting under
federal law.  $200 Million Award  A jury agreed with I4i and awarded $200 million. The judge
overseeing the case increased that sum because of misconduct by
Microsoft’s trial lawyer, and the figure has continued to grow
with interest. The court also ordered Microsoft to stop using
the invention, forcing the company to update the Word software.  Microsoft also has support in its appeal from trade groups
representing the financial services and wireless industries. The
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and the
Clearing House Association told the justices that suits based on
questionable patents “are a plague upon the financial
industry.”  The court’s decision to hear the case “is a clear
affirmation that the issues raised in this case are critical to
the integrity of our patent system,” David Howard, Microsoft’s
deputy general counsel for litigation, said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Simplistic Appeal’  I4i Chairman Loudon Owen said in a telephone interview that
Microsoft’s argument has a “simplistic appeal” that “does not
take into consideration at all what the patent office actually
does.” If Microsoft wins, he said, inventors would inundate the
already overburdened patent office with data and examiners would
have to fill out more paperwork to explain their decisions.  “What it’s going to result in is tremendous uncertainty
for anyone who owns a patent,” he said. “It would be a sea
change in the operations of the patent office and would be a
dramatic body blow to the health of the U.S. patent industry and
the value of patents.”  The case, which the court will consider in the first half
of 2011, is Microsoft v. I4i Limited Partnership, 10-290  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 