-- Illinois, New York Lead Week as Debt Sales Leap 53% From 2009: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-29T18:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/illinois-new-york-lead-week-as-debt-sales-leap-52-from-2009-muni-credit.html
Illinois  and  New York  issuers will
offer $4.7 billion of this week’s municipal debt with scheduled
sales 53 percent higher than the same week last year, as local
governments seek to place deals before the end of 2010.  States and municipalities plan to borrow about $13.3
billion this week,  compared with $8.7 billion  sold the week
after the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The alternative-minimum-tax exemption and
the Build America Bond program are set to expire on Dec. 31
unless Congress extends them.  Issuers who were rushing to sell Build Americas and other
federally supported debt before year-end spurred supply to
record highs this month, sending yields on  10-year AAA tax-
exempts  30 basis points higher since the end of October,
according to a Bloomberg Valuation index. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “We’ve taken our hit already, so I don’t see a big
directional change,” said  Matt Dalton , chief executive officer
of Belle Haven Investments Inc. in White Plains, New York,
arguing that yields are unlikely to rise again even amid a glut.
“We may push off a few basis points,” said Dalton, who
oversees $450 million in assets.  Mutual-fund investors disposed of more than $5 billion of
municipal assets in the last two weeks, with almost $2.27
billion in the week ended Nov. 24, according to  Lipper FMI , a
research company. It was the second-straight outflow and
followed a week in which investors withdrew more than $3.1
billion, the most since January 1992, according to  Tom Roseen ,
senior analyst at Lipper in Denver.  More Outflows  Funds will see outflows as investors raise cash to position
for possible price declines as scheduled issuance increases at
the end of the year, Dalton said. Bond prices have plummeted as
yields soared this month.  “The outflows are coming from individuals who don’t want
to take any more hits,” he said.  Illinois, which shares the worst state credit rating with
California from Moody’s Investors Service, leads this week’s
issuers with $1.46 billion in revenue bonds through the
Railsplitter Tobacco Settlement Authority. Illinois is rated A1
by Moody’s and A+ by Standard & Poor’s, both fifth-highest.  Preliminary Pricing  Bonds maturing in June 2027, about $317 million of the
issue, are being offered to individual investors today at a 6.25
percent yield, according to a person with direct knowledge of
the sale. That’s about  250 basis points  above top-rated debt,
according to a 17-year BVAL benchmark index.  A $329 million portion, the largest of the deal, isn’t
being offered during the so-called retail period, which will
continue tomorrow.  The debt, rated A- by S&P and BBB+ by Fitch Ratings,
fourth- and third-lowest investment grades, is backed by
payments from a 1998 settlement of a lawsuit against tobacco
companies. Proceeds will help pay leftover fiscal 2010 bills by
Dec. 31. The state has been the recipient of $3.3 billion of
tobacco settlement payments, preliminary offering documents
show.  Comptroller  Dan Hynes  warned in an October report that
failure to sell the bonds and collect funds from other borrowing
and one-time sources may make it hard to meet the deadline to
eliminate $2 billion of 2010 debt. The 2011 fiscal year began
July 1 and Illinois has a “lapse” period to settle outstanding
liability.  “The Railsplitter deal is something Illinois needs to do
to plug the hole in their budget,” said  Howard Cure , director
of municipal research for Evercore Wealth Management LLC in New
York. “States don’t usually leverage their tobacco settlement
monies but they need to plug holes.”  Chicago Selling  Chicago, the third most-populous U.S. city, is selling
about $804 million this week, including about $214 million in
Build America Bonds. The city postponed the sale in mid-November
in the hope of obtaining more favorable borrowing costs.
Chicago’s offering will only go this week if rates are low
enough and the market will accept it amid the Illinois issue,
Cure said.  “Chicago gets penalized for being in a state that’s having
such enormous problems,” he said. “Illinois is going to have
to issue debt, and I’m sure the city isn’t going to want to be
dragged down by the state.”  Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the
World Trade Center site and runs the three biggest New York-area
airports, is selling a postponed $840 million tax-exempt
offering in the week’s second-largest deal. This postponement,
unlike Chicago, was not market-related, according to a
spokesman, Steve Coleman. The sale was delayed amid issues
regarding bond insurance from  MBIA Inc. , he said.  Terminal Expansion  The issue will fund expansion of JFK’s international
terminal, according to a Fitch Ratings report. The debt is
backed by rental payments from retail concessions and airlines,
including the anchor tenant,  Delta Air Lines,  according to the
Fitch report. Delta will account for more than 52 percent of
future passenger traffic compared with no more than 10 percent
from any single carrier previously, Fitch said, citing greater
risk of dependency.  Moody’s ranks the borrowings Baa3 and S&P rates them BBB-,
both one level above junk, while Fitch gives the bonds BB, the
second-highest speculative grade.  The authority’s last tax-exempt bond sale, a $400 million
issue in July, offered 29-year debt priced to yield 4.25
percent, or 25 basis points above a  comparable maturity  BVAL
benchmark index. The securities traded Nov. 26 at a so-called
spread of 41 basis points above the index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  