-- Police Get Four More Days to Investigate Suspects in Indian Loan Probe
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2010-11-30T09:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/india-investigators-to-produce-accused-in-349-million-loan-probe-in-court.html
An Indian court granted
investigators four more days to question financial executives
named in a corruption probe into the nation’s largest insurance
company and some state-owned banks.  The special court ordered  LIC Housing Finance Ltd . Chief
Executive Officer  Ramachandran R. Nair  and seven other bank and
brokerage officials to be held until Dec. 3 at a hearing
yesterday in Mumbai. Police arrested the officials last week as
part of an investigation into bribes and improper loan
disbursements.  Indian shares  slumped  last week on concern the corruption
probe in Asia’s second-fastest-growing major  economy  would widen.
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  asked state-owned banks to
review loans to the companies named in the investigation and the
arrests followed gridlock in Parliament as opposition parties
pushed for a separate investigation into the alleged sale of
phone licenses at below-market rates.  “Issues of corruption and corporate governance have been a
matter of concern for India and it needs to be tackled,” said
 Walter Rossini , who manages $350 million in an India fund at
Aletti Gestielle Sgr Spa in Milan. “It is important because
Indian companies are more leveraged than before and they are in
the process of raising a lot of capital.”  Sensitive Index  India’s benchmark  Sensitive Index  has fallen for the past
three weeks. Claris Lifesciences Ltd., seeking funds through an
initial share sale, cut the offer price on Nov. 26 and extended
the deadline for bids by four trading days. The Sensex rose 0.8
percent to 19,564.71 at 2:16 p.m. in Mumbai trading.  India was ranked 87th out of 178 countries in Transparency
International’s 2010 Corruption Perceptions Index, scoring the
same as Albania, Liberia and Jamaica. China was rated less
corrupt in 78th place.  Authorities are focusing on 16 billion rupees ($349 million)
of loans made by Life Insurance Corp. of India and LIC Housing,
according to a finance ministry official who declined to be
identified.  “We have collected voluminous documents,” Ejaz Khan, the
Central Bureau of Investigation’s lawyer, told the court in
Mumbai yesterday. “To ascertain the entire modus operandi we
need more time.”  ‘Safe’ Investments  Finance Minister Mukherjee said today investments made in
state-run Life Insurance Corp. are “safe.” The government is
in touch with the Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao and LIC Chairman T.S. Vijayan, Mukherjee told reporters
in New Delhi  The CBI has accused  Rajesh Sharma , chairman of securities
firm  Money Matters Financial Services Ltd. , of conspiring with
LIC Housing’s Nair to bribe executives of state-run lenders in
exchange for loans for clients and confidential information.  The investigation into Money Matters’ Sharma was
“orchestrated” by a business rival or a disgruntled former
employee, according to his lawyer, Satish Maneshinde.  Others arrested in the investigation include: R.N. Tayal, a
manager at the  Bank of India ; Maninder Singh Johar, a part-time
director at the Central Bank of India; Venkoba Gujjal, deputy
general manager at Punjab National Bank; Sanjay Sharma and
Suresh Gattani of Money Matters; and Naresh Chopra, investment
secretary at Life Insurance Corp.  ‘Opposed’ to Custody  “All the accused have opposed the custody by the CBI,”
Anjani Kumar Singh, Johar’s lawyer, said in an interview on Nov.
26. “Our defense will be based on the investigation report
which CBI will file.”  Money Matters is cooperating with investigating agencies,
the company said in a statement on Nov. 25.  The arrest of Central Bank’s Johar won’t have any effect on
the bank’s operations, said  S. Sridhar , chairman and managing
director of the Mumbai-based lender. Punjab National Bank will
be more diligent while providing loans, Chairman  K.R. Kamath 
said in a telephone interview.  Bank of India is reviewing loans given to companies
mentioned by investigators, said Chairman  Alok Kumar Misra .  The nation’s capital market regulator is taking all steps
to protect investor confidence and will investigate any
“unusual market activity,” Prashant Saran, a member of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India, said on Nov. 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
 Shikhar Balwani  in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  