-- Hindustan Petroleum to Boost Refining Capacity in $6.6 Billion Expansion
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2010-11-29T04:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/hindustan-petroleum-to-boost-refining-capacity-in-6-6-billion-expansion.html
Hindustan Petroleum Corp. , India’s
third-largest state refiner, plans to start building a plant
near Mumbai next year as it seeks to boost refining capacity to
about 40 million metric tons a year over the next decade.  The new refinery, planned in western India about 300
kilometers (186 miles) south of the country’s financial capital,
would initially have the capacity to process 9 million tons of
crude a year, which may be expanded to 18 million tons a year,
 K. Murali , director of refineries, said in an interview at the
company’s Mumbai headquarters.  “After all the clearances and financial closure is
received, we should be able to start in the middle of next
year,” he said.  The company, also known as HPCL, plans to spend about 300
billion rupees ($6.6 billion) expanding capacity at existing
refineries and build new plants over the next 10 years, Murali
said.  Refiners in Asia’s fastest-growing major economy behind
China are investing in new capacity amid a boom in energy use.
The International Energy Agency estimates the nation’s energy
consumption will more than double to 833 million tons of oil
equivalent by 2030.  Mittal Venture  Bharat Petroleum Corp. , India’s second-biggest state
refiner, is examining options to boost processing by expanding
two existing plants and setting up a new facility in the north
of the country.  Hindustan Petroleum has one refinery apiece in Mumbai and
Vishakapatnam in southern India, with a combined capacity of 15
million tons a year.  The company is building a 9 million ton-a-year refinery at
 Bathinda  in northern India in a venture with billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal . Hindustan Petroleum is planning to raise the capacity of
the Bathinda facility by a further 9 million tons, Murali said.  The new refineries would be capable of processing heavier
and cheaper grades of crude oil, while the company’s current
facilities do not have that ability, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratish Narayanan  in Mumbai 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell@bloomberg.net . 