-- Noble, Ratio Oil Find Natural Gas in Leviathan Field Off Israeli Coast
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2010-11-29T09:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/initial-drilling-confirms-leviathan-field-off-israel-contains-natural-gas.html
Initial drilling results showed that
Israel’s offshore Leviathan field contains natural gas,
according to partner  Ratio Oil Exploration 1992 LP .  The results don’t yet indicate the size, quality or
economic viability of the project, the company said in a
 statement  today to the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Details are
expected to be released in about two weeks, Ratio said.  “The announcement lowers the uncertainty surrounding
investment in these gas explorers,” said  Liat Glazer , an
analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in Ramat
Gan, Israel. “We will be awaiting indications of the amount of
gas in the reservoir in the next two weeks. Assuming the
quantities match previous estimates from the seismic tests, the
production process will probably start around 2017.”  Noble Energy Inc.,  the Houston-based explorer which has a
controlling interest in Leviathan, said on June 3 that it may
hold 16 trillion cubic feet of gas with a 50 percent “geologic
chance” of success. Noble holds 39.7 percent, Ratio 15 percent,
 Delek Drilling-LP  22.7 percent, and Avner Oil & Gas Ltd. 22.7
percent, according to the Ministry of National Infrastructures.  The shares of the Israeli companies were halted pending the
announcement and will resume trading at 11:42 a.m. in Tel Aviv.  If the prospect yields the estimated amount of gas,
Leviathan would be the largest gas field in Israeli waters,
almost double the size of the Tamar field discovered in 2009.
Gas in the Leviathan field may be exported as Tamar and Dalit,
both estimated to begin producing at the end of 2012, cover
about two decades of Israel’s gas supply.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net ; 