-- Insider Probe Infecting Mutual Funds May Extend Three Years of Withdrawals
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-11-29T16:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/insider-probe-infecting-mutual-funds-may-extend-three-years-of-withdrawals.html
Mutual funds’ ties to so-called
expert networks that have been probed as part of an insider
trading investigation may undermine efforts by the industry to
stem three years of client withdrawals from stock funds.  Janus Capital Group Inc.  and Wellington Management Co. were
among firms that received requests for information last week as
part of an insider trading investigation involving hedge funds
as well as mutual funds. None of the companies have been accused
of wrongdoing.  The probe hits firms as they try to reverse $90 billion in
withdrawals from U.S. stock funds since the beginning of 2009.
Damage from the industry’s last run-in with regulators, a series
of trading scandals in 2003 and 2004, took years to repair and
led to more than $3 billion in fines against more than two dozen
firms, including Bank of America Corp., Putnam Investments,
Janus and MFS.  “There was reputational damage from that scandal that took
a long time to heal,” said  Burton Greenwald , a fund-company
consultant based in Philadelphia. “In an industry that handles
people’s money and savings, reputation is enormously
important.”  Crackdown  Both MFS and Wellington were clients of Broadband Research
LLC, a Portland, Oregon-based company that provides research to
money managers and whose founder,  John Kinnucan , was visited by
federal officials as part of the probe.  Affiliated Managers
Group Inc. ’s Friess Associates, and the Columbia Management unit
now owned by Ameriprise Inc., have also been clients of the
researcher, Kinnucan said in an interview. None of them have
been accused of wrongdoing.  The crackdown on insider trading led by U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  in Manhattan started in October 2009 with charges filed
against  Raj Rajaratnam ’s Galleon Group LLC. After Rajaratnam was
arrested, his $3.7 billion firm received $1.3 billion in
redemptions in a matter of days, and within a week, he had
decided to liquidate the funds. Rajaratnam, who is awaiting
trial, has denied any wrongdoing.  This month, industry experts took the spotlight when
prosecutors charged a French doctor with tipping off a portfolio
manager at FrontPoint Partners LLC on the results of trials for
the hepatitis-C drug Albuferon. FrontPoint got withdrawal
requests from investors of about $3 billion for the end of the
year following the disclosure, and liquidated its $1.5 billion
health-care funds.  Expert Network  Don Ching Trang Chu, an employee of an expert network
called Primary Global Research LLC in Mountain View, California,
was arrested on Nov. 24 for allegedly providing insider
information to hedge funds. Chu had a roster of Asia-based
employees of North American technology companies to feed
information to clients, according to court documents. James
DeVita, an attorney for Chu, declined to comment.  Kinnucan, who provides research about technology companies
to hedge funds and mutual funds looking for an edge in the stock
market, said he was visited by agents from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation on Oct. 25, who questioned him about his research.
He said agents threatened to arrest him and asked him to wear a
wire to record a conversation with a money manager, whom he
declined to name.  All of his clients have left him since he told them about
the FBI’s visit in an e-mail, he said.  FBI Visit  Mutual funds were unscathed by the probes until last week,
when Janus and Wellington were among a number of asset managers
to receive information requests. Hedge funds Level Global
Investors LP, Diamondback Capital Management LLC and Loch
Capital Management had their offices raided by U.S. officials.
Balyasny Asset Management LP, the Chicago-based hedge fund, said
in a Nov. 24 letter to investors that they received a faxed
subpoena from the government “requesting a broad set of general
information for the last few years.” None of the firms have
been accused of wrongdoing.  The mutual-fund companies that were contacted by federal
prosecutors declined to comment when called by Bloomberg News on
whether they use expert networks and what information they were
asked to provide.  Janus, based in Denver, said on Nov. 23 that it received a
request for “general information and intends to cooperate fully
with that inquiry.” The firm, in a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission filing, said it would not provide further updates
unless required by law. Janus manages $160.8 billion in assets.  ‘General’ Request  Wellington’s offices in Boston were not visited by agents
from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, a person familiar with
the matter said. On an internal call on Nov. 22, Wellington said
that it’s conducting a review of records, and that it didn’t
engage in illegal trading, according to another person, who
asked not to be named because the firm is private.  “The document request is general and broad in scope,”
Wellington told clients in a Nov. 23 letter to clients.
Wellington didn’t provide details on what documents were asked
for or which government agency asked for them.  Wellington, which manages about $598 billion in mutual
funds and in accounts for institutional investors, runs about
$175 billion in 19 funds for Vanguard Group Inc. Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, the largest U.S. manager of stock
and bond funds, remains “fully confident in and committed” to
the relationship with Wellington, according to an e-mailed
statement.  A spokeswoman for Wellington declined to comment.  Friess, Ameriprise  John Reilly , a spokesman for Boston-based MFS, said in an
interview on Friday that company had not received any requests
for information from investigators. MFS, which managed $190
billion as of Aug. 31, is a unit of Toronto-based Sun Life
Financial Inc. and created the first U.S. mutual fund in the
1920s.  Friess Associates, based in Delaware, manages the
Brandywine funds, including the $2.2 billion Brandywine Blue
Fund. Affiliated Managers, the Beverly, Massachusetts-based
company that owns stakes in two dozen money managers, owns 70
percent of Friess Associates. Laura O’Brien, a spokeswoman for
Affiliated Managers, declined to comment.  Ben Pratt , a spokesman for Minneapolis-based Ameriprise,
didn’t return a call seeking comment. Ameriprise in April
completed its $1 billion acquisition of Columbia’s stock and
bond funds from Bank of America, to create a fund manager with
more than $500 billion in assets.  2003 Scandal  The mutual-fund companies at the center of the trading
abuses seven years ago were accused of allowing certain
investors, including hedge funds, to make rapid and after-hours
trades at the expense of ordinary shareholders. The charges were
brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, then New
York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  and state regulators.  Boston-based Putnam struggled with investor redemptions
that continued for the next five years, before the financial
crisis brought about another round of withdrawals. Assets at
Putnam are at about $118 billion, down from $272 billion before
the probes were announced in 2003. Janus, which had about $147
billion in assets before the trading scandal, had at least $40
billion withdrawals in the two years after settling allegations
of trading abuses.  The 2003-2004 scandal was especially destructive, said
Greenwald, because it came as investors were just beginning to
recover from the steep decline in technology stocks. The
technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index fell 67 percent from the
end of 1999 to 2002, Bloomberg data show.  $11.3 Trillion  Mutual funds are facing a similar situation now, after
investors fled stock funds following a 37 percent decline in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 2008. The U.S. mutual-fund
industry had $11.3 trillion in assets as of Sept. 30, according
to the website of the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade group.  Some mutual funds may be less affected by moves in a single
stock because unlike hedge funds, most mutual funds don’t use
leverage or hold concentrated portfolios,  Geoff Bobroff , a
money-manager consultant based in East Greenwich, Rhode Island,
said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  