-- Iranian Nuclear Scientist Killed, Second Injured in Identical Bomb Attacks
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-11-29T16:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/iranian-physicist-killed-another-escapes-attack-mehr-reports.html
A physicist involved in Iran’s
nuclear program was killed in a bombing in Tehran and another
scientist was injured in a second blast, authorities said.  Majid Shahriari died early today as he was heading to his
teaching job at Shahid Beheshti University, state-run news
agencies including Mehr reported. Fereydoun Abasi, a physicist
at the same university, was injured along with his wife, Mehr
said. The bombs were attached to their cars by magnets, Hossein
Sajedinia, Tehran’s police chief, was cited as saying by the
official  Islamic Republic News Agency .  “Majid Shahriari was one of my students for years and had
a good cooperation with the organization,”  Ali Akbar Salehi ,
head of Iran’s Atomic Energy Agency, told IRNA. “He was
involved in one of the great projects of the organization.”  Iran is under international pressure over its nuclear
program, which the U.S. and allies say is a cover for building
atomic weapons. Iran rejects the allegation and says it needs
nuclear technology for civilian purposes. Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  said this month that Iran should know that
“all options are on the table” to halt the program.  Shahriari was  a member  of a regional scientific program
known as Sesame, which includes Israel as a member, according to
the project’s  website . He succeeded  Massoud Ali-Mohammadi , an
Iranian scientist who also died in an attack, the Tehran-based
 Asre-Iran  website, which is close to the government, said today.
 Ali-Mohammadi , a professor of elementary particle physics, was
killed in January by a bomb planted outside his home in Tehran.  U.S., Israel Blamed  Interior Minister  Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar  accused the U.S.
and Israeli intelligence services of being behind the attack on
Shahriari. Iran had also blamed Ali-Mohammadi’s killing on the
U.S. and Israel.  “The CIA and Mossad are enemies of the Iranian nation and
always sought to harm it as they want to prevent our scientific
progress,” Mohammad-Najjar  said , according to state television.
“The enemy is resorting to such actions because it didn’t
succeed by threatening and imposing sanctions on Iran.”  An Israeli official, speaking on condition of anonymity
because of the sensitivity of the matter, said today that Israel
has a longstanding policy of not commenting on such allegations.  Salehi, who visited Abasi at a hospital, warned Iran’s
enemies not to “play with fire” and said that “the patience
of Iranian people is limited,” according to IRNA.  Shahriari, a professor of nuclear engineering, acted as an
Iranian adviser to the Sesame council, which includes Israel,
Egypt, Bahrain, Pakistan, Jordan, Turkey and Palestinians,
according to the program’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net . 