-- Iranian Nuclear Scientist Killed, Second Injured in Identical Bomb Attacks
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-11-29T18:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/iranian-nuclear-scientist-killed-second-physicist-injured-in-bomb-attacks.html
A scientist involved in Iran’s
nuclear program was killed and another injured in bombings the
government blamed on the U.S. and Israel.  Majid Shahriari died today as he was heading to his
teaching job at Shahid Beheshti University, said state-run news
agencies including Mehr. He is the second Iranian physicist
killed in the capital in less than a year. Fereydoun Abasi,
another university employee, was hurt along with his wife, Mehr
said. Abasi, also known as Abasi-Davani, was linked to atomic
work in a 2007 United Nations  resolution  that imposed sanctions
on Iran over its nuclear program. The UN said he was a senior
Defense Ministry and Armed Forces Logistics scientist.  Iran is under international pressure over its nuclear
program, which the U.S. and allies say is a cover for building
atomic weapons. Iran rejects the allegation and says it needs
nuclear technology for civilian purposes. Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  said this month that Iran should know that
“all options are on the table” to halt the program.  “Majid Shahriari was one of my students for years and had
good cooperation with the organization,”  Ali Akbar Salehi , head
of Iran’s Atomic Energy Agency, told the official  Islamic
Republic News Agency . “He was involved in one of the great
projects of the organization.”  Shahriari was  a member  of a regional scientific program
known as Sesame, which includes Israel as a member, according to
the project’s  website . He succeeded  Massoud Ali-Mohammadi , an
Iranian scientist who died in an attack in January, the Tehran-
based  Asre-Iran  website, which is close to the government, said
today.  Ali-Mohammadi , a professor of elementary particle
physics, was killed by a bomb outside his Tehran home.  CIA, Mossad  Interior Minister  Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar  accused the U.S.
and Israeli intelligence services of being behind the attack on
Shahriari. Iran had also blamed Ali-Mohammadi’s killing on the
U.S. and Israel.  “The CIA and Mossad are enemies of the Iranian nation and
always sought to harm it as they want to prevent our scientific
progress,” Mohammad-Najjar  said , according to state television.
“The enemy is resorting to such actions because it didn’t
succeed by threatening and imposing sanctions on Iran.”  An Israeli official, speaking on condition of anonymity
because of the sensitivity of the matter, said today that Israel
has a longstanding policy of not commenting on such allegations.  The bombs were attached to the men’s cars by magnets,
Tehran police chief Hossein Sajedinia was cited as saying by
IRNA.  Salehi, who visited Abasi at a hospital, warned Iran’s
enemies not to “play with fire” and said that “the patience
of Iranian people is limited,” according to IRNA.  Shahriari, a professor of nuclear engineering, acted as an
Iranian adviser to the Sesame council, which includes Israel,
Egypt, Bahrain, Pakistan, Jordan, Turkey and Palestinians,
according to the program’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net . 