-- Iran May Have Missiles From North Korea, Cables Posted by WikiLeaks Show
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-29T21:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/iran-may-have-missiles-from-north-korea-cables-posted-by-wikileaks-show.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the U.S. “strongly condemns” the leak of more than
250,000 diplomatic cables as she sought to reassure nations,
civic groups and individuals who might be affected.  “It puts people’s lives in danger, threatens our national
security and undermines our efforts to work with other countries
to solve shared problems,” Clinton told reporters today at the
State Department. “We are taking aggressive steps to hold
responsible those who stole this information.”  WikiLeaks.org , a nonprofit group that releases information
the governments and businesses want to keep confidential,
yesterday began posting on its website what it says are secret,
confidential or in some cases unclassified U.S. embassy cables
written from December 1966 to February 2010.  The documents include U.S. intelligence findings such as a
conclusion that Iran obtained 19 advanced missiles from North
Korea. The missiles potentially give the Islamic nation the
capability of attacking Moscow and cities in Western Europe,
according to embassy cables posted by WikiLeaks and provided to
the New York Times in advance.  Clinton leaves Washington today for a trip to Central Asia
and the Middle East that includes a stop in Bahrain for a
regional security conference. The attendees will include foreign
and defense ministers or heads of state whose countries were
cited in the cables.  Obama ‘Not Pleased’  President  Barack Obama  learned of the leak of the documents
last week and was “not pleased with this information becoming
public,” White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said. While
calling the leak a “crime,” Gibbs said he didn’t believe it
“impacts our ability to conduct foreign policy.”  Clinton and her top deputies have called counterparts in
the past week to warn them of the leak, and she met at the State
Department today with Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu .
Officials will make follow-up calls as long as it takes to
reassure allies and partners, State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told reporters in Washington.  In brief remarks before their meeting, Davutoglu said he
appreciated a briefing Turkey received from U.S. envoys in
advance of the leak and would raise the disclosures with
Clinton.  Clinton said she has had “very productive” discussions
with her counterparts on the WikiLeaks release and is confident
the Obama administration would overcome any consequences.  Most diplomats from other nations will understand the
sometimes frank language used in certain cables, Clinton said.  “I can tell you that in my conversations, at least one of
my counterparts said to me, ‘Well, don’t worry about it. You
should see what we say about you,’” Clinton said.  Global ‘Attack’  ‘‘This disclosure is not just an attack on America’s
foreign-policy interests,’’ Clinton said. ‘‘It is an attack on
the international community, the alliances and partnerships, the
conversations and negotiations that safeguard global security
and advance economic prosperity.’’  U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said the Justice
Department has an ‘‘active, ongoing criminal
investigation’’ into the release of sensitive government
documents.  The Obama administration, in a memo made public today,
ordered a review on protecting classified information, telling
the heads of departments and agencies handling classified
information to establish a team to assess security procedures.  The Pentagon yesterday outlined measures it has taken to
better protect sensitive information. The State Department also
is evaluating how data is stored and who has access, Crowley
said.  About 9,000 of the WikiLeaks documents were listed as
containing information too sensitive to be shared with a foreign
government, the New York Times said. None was listed as ‘‘top
secret,’’ according to the Times.  North Korea Missiles  One of the leaked cables, dated Feb. 24 this year, said the
19 North Korean BM-25 missiles, based on a Russian design known
as the R-27, might give Iran the ‘‘building blocks’’ for
producing long-range missiles, according to the New York Times.
The cable didn’t provide specific evidence, according to the
newspaper, which agreed not to publish the document at the Obama
administration’s request.  ‘‘North Korea and Iran have had a decades-long missile
relationship and also most likely a nuclear relationship,” said
 Bruce Klingner , an analyst at the Heritage Foundation in
Washington and former chief of the Central Intelligence Agency’s
Korea branch. “The leaking of the classified documents provides
a greater sense of confidence” for analysis conducted
previously by outside experts and most recently illustrated in
photos from a North Korean parade, he said.  Pressured the U.S.  Diplomatic cables posted by the  Guardian , which also
received advance copies from WikiLeaks, indicate as far back as
early 2008 Saudi Arabia and other Arab governments pressed the
U.S. for attacks on Iran to stop it getting a nuclear bomb, even
as some expressed concern that a military strike might
destabilize the region.  The Obama administration has won stiffer United Nations
Security Council sanctions against Iran and sealed arms
agreements such as a $60 billion deal with Saudi Arabia over the
next 10 years.  A cable posted by the Guardian quoted  Adel al-Jubeir , the
Saudi ambassador to the U.S., as citing Saudi  King Abdullah ’s “frequent exhortations to attack Iran and put
an end” to the Iranian nuclear weapons program. The exchange
took place in an April 20, 2008, meeting between al-Jubeir,
then-U.S. Iraq Ambassador  Ryan Crocker  and U.S. Central Command
commander General  David Petraeus , the Guardian said.  A similar tone was struck by King  Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa 
of Bahrain in a Nov. 4, 2009, conversation with Petraeus.  Dangers Compared  Hamad said “the danger of letting it go on is greater than
the danger of stopping it,” according to the cable cited by the
Guardian.  Bahrain is home to the U.S. 5th Fleet headquarters. The
cable also disclosed that the king agreed to a NATO request to
base Awacs air surveillance aircraft in his nation as part of
increased monitoring of Iran.  Israeli military officials 14 days later in a Nov. 18,
2009, meeting with U.S. State and Defense Department officials,
including Assistant Secretary of State  Andrew Shapiro , said,
“If the Iranians continue to protect and harden their nuclear
sites, it will be more difficult to target and damage them,”
according to a cable summarizing Israel’s concerns and posted by
the Guardian.  The cable said both sides discussed the need to avoid
publicity for an “upcoming delivery” of GBU-28 bunker-buster
bombs to Israel “to avoid any allegations that the U.S. is
helping prepare for a strike against Iran.”  Ahmadinejad Reaction  Iran’s ties with Arab nations won’t be hurt by publication
of the U.S. cables, Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said
today in a speech aired live on state television from Tehran.  “Our relations with Arab countries and our neighbors are
very good, we are like brothers,” Ahmadinejad said. “They will
not be affected by these reports.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  expressed
satisfaction that the disclosures indicated that Arab leaders
were as worried about Iran’s nuclear program as his own
government.  “I hope the leaders will have the courage to say to their
nations publicly what they’ve said about Iran,” Netanyahu told
a news conference in Tel Aviv.  The leaked documents include details about governments and
officials, including an episode last year in which Afghanistan’s
then-vice president,  Ahmed Zia Massoud , was found carrying $52
million in cash while visiting the United Arab Emirates. Massoud
denied taking any money out of Afghanistan, according to the
Times.  China,  Google   According to another cable, a Chinese contact told the U.S.
embassy in Beijing in January that China’s Politburo directed an
“intrusion” into  Google Inc. ’s local computer networks.
The Google hacking was “part of a coordinated campaign of
computer sabotage carried out by government operatives, private
security experts and Internet outlaws recruited by the Chinese
government,” the New York Times said in its account of the
WikiLeaks cables.  The cyber attacks in China were orchestrated by a senior
Politburo member who used Google’s search engine and found
articles critical of him, the Guardian  reported . The Chinese
Foreign Ministry and  Jessica Powell , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman
at Google, weren’t immediately available today to comment on the
report.  In July 2009, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed  Al Nahyan  of
Abu Dhabi, then the defense supreme commander for the United
Arab Emirates, declared that Ahmadinejad “is Hitler,” the New
York Times reported, citing the documents.  WikiLeaks previously released 400,000 documents in October
related to the Iraq war and about 75,000 in July on the Afghan
conflict.  An Army intelligence analyst named Bradley Manning was
arrested in June at age 22 and charged with illegally releasing
classified information. He had said in an online chat in May
that the documents he downloaded included “260,000 State
Department cables from embassies and consulates all over the
world,” the New York Times reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  