-- Ireland Gets $113 Billion Aid as Bondholders Win Bailout-Payment Reprieve
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-11-29T16:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/ireland-s-eu-financial-rescue-fails-to-stem-contagion-as-spain-bonds-drop.html
European governments’ 85 billion-
euro ($113 billion) bailout package for Ireland failed to quell
the market turmoil menacing the euro as stocks, bonds and the
currency declined.  Irish 10-year bonds slid after an early advance, Spanish
bonds fell by the most since the euro’s launch and European
shares sank 1.4 percent. The euro weakened against 15 of its 16
major counterparts and the cost of insuring the debt of Spain
and Portugal against default soared to records.  “The notion that a rescue package for Ireland would create
a firewall and stop the fear of contagion is clearly
discredited,” said  Preston Keat , director of research at
Eurasia Group, a political consultancy, in London. “Portugal
and Spain are already facing pressures in the markets.”  Six months after the Greek rescue exposed flaws in the
euro’s makeup and fueled doubts whether 16 countries belong in
the same currency union, policy makers again found themselves
meeting on Sunday in Brussels racing to calm markets.  In addition to Ireland’s rescue package, finance chiefs
also endorsed a Franco-German compromise on post-2013 rescues
that means investors won’t automatically take losses to share
the cost with taxpayers as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
initially proposed to the consternation of bond traders. And
Greece was told it could have an extra 4 1/2 years to repay
emergency loans to match the seven-year term in the Irish deal.  Most-Indebted Nations  The moves failed to ease concern the region’s most-indebted
nations will need further aid. The euro slid 1.1 percent to
$1.3101 against the dollar at 4:31 p.m. in London, reaching its
lowest since Sept. 21. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated 1.4
percent to 262.83.  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds rose 25 basis points to
5.46 percent, the highest since 2002. That pushed the premium
over German bunds to 271 basis points, a euro-era record.  Credit-default swaps on Portugal jumped 37 basis points to
539, and contracts on Spain climbed 28.75 to 351.5, according to
CMA. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments increased 9 basis points to a record 197, based on
closing prices.  While Greece let its budget get out of hand and Ireland
fell prey to a housing bust, Portugal suffers from a lack of
competitiveness that kept average  economic growth  below 1
percent in the past decade. Its government has also been slower
to cut its deficit than others, with the central government’s
shortfall widening 1.8 percent in the first 10 months of the
year as Spain’s fell 47 percent.  Bond Sales  Like Ireland, Portugal doesn’t immediately need money to
run the government. It has completed this year’s bond sales and
doesn’t face a redemption until April. The government debt
agency plans to hold an auction of 12-month bills on Dec. 1.  Portugal last week passed the deepest spending cuts in more
than three decades with the goal of getting back under the EU’s
deficit limits by 2012. HSBC Holdings Plc estimates it needs to
find 51.5 billion euros over the next three years to meet its
likely budget and bond redemption needs.  “Portugal doesn’t see a need to ask for help,” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday.  Spanish Economy Minister  Elena Salgado  also reiterated that
her economy -- the euro zone’s fourth-largest and almost twice
the size of Portugal, Ireland and Greece combined -- won’t need
aid either. As well as slashing its budget gap, the country has
brought regional spending under greater control and half of its
debt is held at home, limiting the threat of a withdrawal by
foreign investors. It doesn’t face the first of its 45 billion
euros in bond redemptions next year until April.  Bailout Pot  Investors have nevertheless expressed worry that the EU’s
bailout pot may be smaller than advertised and not large enough
to save Spain. HSBC’s sums show the country needs 351 billion
euros over the next three years.  In practice, the EU may only be able to deploy 255 billion
euros of the 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability
Facility, according to Nomura International Plc. That’s because
the rescue fund is financed by issuing bonds and to secure a AAA
rating, governments agreed to set aside cash and to link lending
to the creditworthiness of donors.
The rest of the bailout pool consists of 60 billion euros from
the  European Commission  and 250 billion euro pledged by the IMF.  UBS AG said in a report published today that the debt
crisis will escalate next year and that investors should
continue to avoid bonds issued by so-called peripheral countries
like Ireland, Portugal and Greece in the near term.  Domestic Criticism  Germany, which built the euro on the principle of budgetary
rigor, unleashed the latest phase of the crisis by demanding a
“permanent” system as of 2013 that would enable fiscally
troubled countries to restructure their debts and cut the value
of bond holdings.  The German push ran into criticism from policy makers
elsewhere, who called it mistimed, and from  European Central
Bank  President Jean-Claude Trichet, who warned it would unsettle
bondholders. Merkel, who has faced domestic criticism for aiding
EU neighbors, yesterday backed away from the pitch for an
automatic penalty, agreeing to give the International Monetary
Fund a role in determining losses on a case-by-case basis.  The new proposal, fast-tracked from a debate set for
December, would introduce “collective action clauses” for debt
sold as of 2013, enabling fiscally hard-hit governments to
renegotiate bond contracts. EU governments aim to enshrine it in
the bloc’s treaties by mid-2013 and pair it with a new emergency
liquidity fund to replace the one expiring then.  ‘Herd Behavior’  Trichet yesterday called the compromise a “useful
clarification” and the ECB’s Governing Council said that the
Irish program will “contribute to restoring confidence and
safeguarding financial stability in the euro area.”  “There’s plenty of herd behavior in the market,” EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said. “We
want to clarify any possible confusion.”  Germany’s export-led economy has powered through the euro
crisis, with  business confidence  at a record high in November
and the government projecting expansion of 3.7 percent this
year, the fastest pace in more than a decade. That resilience
contrasts with recessions in Greece and Ireland, splitting the
euro region between better-off countries in Germany’s economic
slipstream and poorer ones on the continent’s fringes.  Yesterday’s decisions “do not address long-term solvency
issues,” said  Andrew Bosomworth , a Munich-based fund manager at
Pacific Investment Management Co. “It’s a kick-the-can-down-
the-road solution as opposed to acknowledging and confronting
the here-and-now insolvency problems.”  Cash Reserves  Ireland said it will pay average interest of 5.8 percent on
the loans, which break down into 45 billion euros from European
governments, 22.5 billion euros from the IMF and 17.5 billion
euros from Ireland’s cash reserves and national pension fund.  “I don’t believe there were any other real options,”
Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  told reporters in Dublin.  A day after more than 50,000 protesters marched through
Dublin to denounce Cowen’s budget cuts to stave off financial
ruin, the EU gave Ireland an extra year, until 2015, to get its
budget deficit to the euro limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product.  Including the bill for propping up Irish banks, the deficit
is set to reach 32 percent of GDP this year, the highest in the
euro’s 12-year history.  Emergency Measures  Cowen has overseen the collapse of Ireland’s banking system
and public finances, leading to recession and unemployment near
14 percent. Cowen’s government is also unraveling. The Green
Party, a junior coalition partner, wants elections in January,
his party last week lost a special election for a vacant
parliamentary seat and some of his own colleagues are slamming
his leadership.  Close banking links led Britain, a non-euro user that
didn’t contribute to Greece’s 110 billion-euro rescue in May, to
contribute 3.8 billion euros to Ireland’s package.  The reigniting of the crisis means the ECB may again
postpone its exit from emergency measures just as it did at the
height of the Greek turmoil. It’s likely to also provide more
help to banks in Spain and Portugal and could ultimately extend
its bond-purchase program to Spanish securities and maybe even
conduct broader asset purchases, said  Janet Henry , chief
European economist at HSBC in London.  “We removed doubts and uncertainty and we must keep
removing reasons to panic; we aim to take away speculators’
tools,” Finnish Finance Minister  Jyrki Katainen  told reporters
in Helsinki today. Still, “there is no guarantee the crisis
won’t continue, or even spread, despite the Irish loans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in London at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  