-- Ireland Bailout Provides Little by Way of Relief for Markets: Euro Credit
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-29T17:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/ireland-bailout-set-to-provide-short-term-relief-for-markets-euro-credit.html
The 85 billion-euro ($113 billion)
bailout of Ireland failed to stabilize sovereign credit markets
as bond yields in the euro region’s most-indebted countries rose
to  records .  European governments sought to stem market losses by
agreeing to the aid package for Ireland and also by endorsing
steps on post-2013 rescues that scale back calls by German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  for bondholders to take losses and
share the costs with taxpayers.  “It is always about confidence and this should be enough
to restore a degree of confidence in Ireland and in particular
Irish sovereign debt,”  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy
at London-based Lloyds TSB Corporate Bank, wrote late yesterday
in a note to clients. “It doesn’t, however, address the
underlying issues of monetary union without fiscal union and
thereby Portugal-Spain risks remain.”  The 10-year Spanish bond yield jumped 26 basis points to
5.48 percent, the highest since 2002. The difference in yield,
or spread, over German bunds of similar maturity touched a euro-
era record of 273 basis points. The yield on equivalent Irish
bonds increased 12 basis points to 9.47 percent. The euro
weakened as much as 1.3 percent to $1.3064, the lowest in more
than two months.  The cost of insuring against default on Portuguese and
Spanish debt climbed to record levels, according CMA data.  Spain and Portugal  “The real issue for the euro is that the tension around
Ireland has seen broad-based contagion effects, including to
Portugal and Spain,”  Jens Nordvig , a New York-based managing
director of currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote
today in a note to clients.  Market speculation intensified last week that Portugal and
perhaps even Spain will require external support after Ireland.
A bailout of Portugal would cost about 50 billion euros, which
is “well within the capacity” of funds made available by the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund, Nordvig said.  “The additional resources needed to fund Spain in a
scenario where Spain lost market access would test the limits of
the capacity available from the EU-IMF,” or about 385 billion
euros, he said. “This is the reason Spain is pivotal to the
outlook for the euro.”  Credit markets were tested today by a 6.8 billion-euro
sovereign bond auction in Italy. Borrowing costs rose after the
sale with the yield of 10-year Italian debt climbing 21 basis
points to 4.64 percent. Portugal, Belgium, Germany, Spain and
France also plan to sell securities this week.  ‘Under Pressure’  “Volatility is going to persist and I wouldn’t rule out a
further widening of spreads in the near term,” said  Nicholas Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist in Edinburgh at RIA
Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for money managers. “The euro
system as a whole is under pressure and there’s huge political
pressure on its members to hold the region together.”  Spanish Economy Minister  Elena Salgado  said yesterday her
country won’t need aid. She said steps taken by European finance
ministers will help control speculation in the financial markets.
The Spanish economy is the fourth largest in the euro zone and
is almost twice the combined size of Portugal, Ireland and
Greece.  As part of yesterday’s talks with EU officials, Greece was
given an extra four-and-a-half years to repay emergency loans
totaling 110 billion euros to match the seven-year term of
Ireland’s deal. Greek bonds rose, sending the yield down 5 basis
points to 11.72 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  