-- Ireland to Pay 5.8% for Bailout as Country's Taxes, Senior Debt Protected
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-29T08:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/irish-to-pay-5-8-for-bailout-as-taxes-senior-debt-protected.html
Ireland will pay an average 5.8
percent for international bailout loans as part of an agreement
that protected the senior bondholders of Irish banks and
preserved the country’s low corporate tax policy.  The state was granted funds amounting to 67.5 billion euros
($90 billion) with an average duration of 7 1/2 years by the
European Union and International Monetary Fund, the government
said yesterday. The average interest compares with a rate of
around 5 percent charged to Greece for three-year loans earlier
this year. Subordinated bank bond holders may have to accept
“big haircuts,” Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said.  “I don’t believe there were any other real options,”
Cowen told reporters in Dublin yesterday after the agreement was
announced, adding that leaving the euro or defaulting on bank
bonds were unrealistic. “We are not an irresponsible country.”  The deal came after the country’s crumbling banking system
threatened to bankrupt the state, sending the yield on Ireland’s
10-year  government bond  to a 9.2 percent on Nov. 26 and sparking
concerns about contagion through the rest of the euro region.  “The interest rate paid is not burdensome and effectively
removes Ireland from needing to issue debt for the next 2
years,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds
TSB Corporate Bank in London. “Clearly it is always about
confidence and this should be enough to restore a degree of
confidence in Ireland and in particular Irish sovereign debt.”  Bond Pledge  The Irish  yield premium  over benchmark 10-year German bonds
fell 9 basis points 637 basis points today. It reached a  record 
656 basis points on Nov. 26, almost triple the spread just four
months ago. Spain’s yield spread slipped 3 basis to 241 basis
points and Portugal’s declined by 6 to 419.  Cowen told reporters there wasn’t “political or
institutional” support in Europe for forcing losses on senior
bondholders, which were guaranteed by the state two years ago.
Bonds of the country’s banks have tumbled on concern that
Ireland would be forced to renege on that pledge.  Cowen also clung to the country’s 12.5 percent corporate
tax rate, which has attracted companies including  Google Inc. 
and Intel Corp. and criticism from some other European
countries.  Own Bailout  Under the terms of the agreement, Ireland’s banks will get
as much as 35 billion euros of aid and the rest of the bailout
fund will help the country finance itself. Ireland will provide
17.5 billion euros from its own reserves.  When the government stepped out of the bond market in
October, it had a 20 billion euro cash pile to see the state
through to the middle of 2011. In addition, the country controls
a 24 billion euro pension reserve fund, set up in 2001 to pay
for Irish pensions from 2025. Ten billion euros had already been
pledged to the banks.  “The market will be concerned to see Ireland being a major
contributor to its own bailout,” said Austin Hughes, chief
economist with Dublin-based KBC Bank Ireland. “I don’t think we
can fold up our tents and start thinking about Christmas after
this.”  Irish opposition politicians slammed the deal as they
prepare for an election early next year.  “The interest rate of 5.8 percent is far too high and
verges on the unaffordable,” said  Michael Noonan , finance
spokesman for Fine Gael, the largest opposition party. “The
government was cleaned out in the negotiations.”  Deficit Target  Much of the program borrows from the government’s own four-
year plan, published on Nov. 24, which proposed 15 billion euros
worth of spending cuts and tax increases to narrow the deficit
to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2014.  Cowen said yesterday the state had won an extra year to
reach that target if needed. The shortfall will be 12 percent of
GDP this year, or 32 percent including a banking rescue.  Ireland will freeze state pensions and raise the retirement
age to as high as 68 by 2028. The government will also cut tax
breaks for pensions and cut 10 percent for the pay of new
government workers.  Irish banks will get an immediate 8 billion euros to
bolster capital, and will raise a further 2 billion euros by
shedding assets, the central bank said. Lenders will be able to
draw on a further 25 billion euros depending on how they fare in
a round of stress tests in the first half of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  