-- Israelis Doubt Abbas Will Keep Palestinian Post, WikiLeaks Release Shows
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2010-11-29T22:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/israelis-doubt-abbas-will-keep-palestinian-post-wikileaks-release-shows.html
Israeli officials told the U.S. that
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  is in a precarious
position and may not survive politically beyond next year,
according to a document released by  WikiLeaks .  The cable, sent by the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv to the
State Department, details a meeting in November, 2009, between
U.S. Assistant Secretary of Defense  Alexander Vershbow  and
several Israeli security officials, including  Amos Gilad ,
Director of Policy and Military Affairs in the Ministry of
Defense, and Deputy Chief of Staff  Benny Gantz .  “It was widely agreed that President Abbas is currently in
a weakened political state, and Israeli officials generally cast
a dour assessment of Abbas’s future,” the cable said. “In one
exchange, Amos Gilad stated his opinion that Abbas will not
survive politically past the year 2011.”  The U.S. is trying to broker the resumption of peace talks
between Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  that
broke down in September over the issue of West Bank settlement
construction.  WikiLeaks, a non-profit website, has begun releasing more
than 250,000 U.S. embassy cables, with advance copies provided
to The New York Times, The Guardian, and other media outlets.
U.S. officials denounced the release as jeopardizing the
nation’s ties and endangering individuals.  Netanyahu said yesterday the release of diplomatic
documents by WikiLeaks.org makes diplomacy harder, and Israel
has been reducing access to information to avoid disclosures.  “We have been limiting our meetings to four eyes or eight
eyes,” Netanyahu said at a press conference in Tel Aviv.
“Every person you add raises the risk of a leak.”  Israel won’t comment on the WikiLeaks material beyond what
Netanyahu said, according to his spokesman  Mark Regev .  To contact the reporter on this story: Calev Ben-David in
Jerusalem at   cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  