-- Israeli Wine Matures After 2,000 Years of History: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2010-11-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/israeli-wine-matures-after-2-000-years-of-history-john-mariani.html
A decade ago I’d never have written
this sentence: “On a recent trip to Israel I was very
enthusiastic to order Israeli wines with my meals.”  The biblical claim, made in Psalms 104:15, was that wine
was a gift of God “to gladden the heart of man.” Still, two
millennia went by before truly good wine came out of Israel.
When the 4th edition of The Sotheby’s Wine Encyclopedia appeared
in 2005, Israeli wines got only one skimpy paragraph.  In September, I dined on “Jacob & Esau’s biblical red
lentil stew” and a wild mallow herb called hubeiza “eaten
during the ‘48 siege on Jerusalem” as part of the kosher menu
for “King David’s Feast” at one of Jerusalem’s finest
restaurants, the  Eucalyptus . I drank a delicious 2009 merlot
from the Samson Hills made by the Efrat Winery, which started
making wines in a Jerusalem alleyway in 1870 and is now a
leading company making more than 100 wines and grape juices.  At the modern non-kosher restaurant Segev in Tel Aviv’s
business district, I ate grilled duck breast with sunflower
seeds and ground sesame and tried a wonderful  Yarden  2007
Katzrin Chardonnay that I’d swear was right out of Napa Valley.
It’s actually from the volcanic soil of the Golan Heights.  Viticulture  has a rocky history in Israel: The vineyards
were ripped out when the Muslims conquered Jerusalem in 636
A.D., restored by the Crusaders in the 12th century and
abandoned during the Diaspora. Upon the Jews’ return in the 19th
century, Baron Edmond de  Rothschild  of France replanted
vineyards with European varietals and founded Carmel Winery.  U.S. Exports  Israel has more than 120 wineries, both kosher and non-
kosher, producing cabernet sauvignon, merlot, sauvignon blanc,
semillon, grenache and other varietals. Most are made by
cooperatives, with 50 percent by  Carmel . Other big players are
 Barkan Wine Cellars  and  Golan Heights Winery . The U.S. is the
biggest export market.  Kosher wines must meet stringent requirements: vines must
be at least four years old; vineyards within biblical lands must
be left fallow every seven years and only vines may be planted
in vineyard land. The grapes may only be handled by certified
“Sabbath-observant Jews”; non-Jews may not even touch bottled
kosher wines unless they are flash pasteurized (a process called
yayin mevushal).  Few kosher wines taste like the cloyingly sweet
 Manischewitz  that some American Jews still serve on holidays.
The wines I tasted were clean, well made, and dry. Many can
compete with the better wines coming out of Lebanon, Eastern
Europe, Spain and Portugal.  Distinctive Reds  In my tastings back home I concentrated on red wines, which
seem to have more distinctive character. Some of the cabernet
sauvignons had an assembly-line style, with no suggestion of
terroir beyond being heavy and dense.  Recanati  of Upper Galilee makes an intensely inky Special
Reserve 2006 ($45). I preferred its regular 2009 cab ($16), with
14.5 percent alcohol and none of the burn of similar California
examples.  I enjoyed the 2007 Reserve from  Bazelet HaGolan  ($40),
unfiltered and aged for 20 months, which seemed to ameliorate
its 14.9 percent alcohol level, making this a creamy cab.  The more modest 13.8 percent of a 2007 Barkan Altitude
Series “+720” ($33) brought out its lush fruit, and its medium
body goes well with lamb chops. A pricey 2006 cab and petit
verdot blend by Yatir ($56), a Judean Hills vintner, had a
peppery component that would enhance Middle Eastern-style mezes.  The  Domaine du Castel  Grand Vin 2007 Haute Judee ($76) was
a Bordeaux-style blend with a rubbery nose and little pleasure
about it.  Tishbi’s Terroir  Tishbi  is also among Israel’s star boutique wineries,
dating to 1882, run since 1984 by Jonathan Tishbi. Its wines
show attention to terroir, blending and aging. I was impressed
by the 2006 Estate Merlot, with 5 percent cabernet franc ($17).  I would hardly identify Tishbi’s 2006 Estate Pinot Noir
($20) as a pinot noir in a blind tasting, for that fickle grape
has many expressions. It’s pleasant and well fruited, easy to
drink with any kind of meat.  Of all the varietals I tasted, syrah/shiraz has the
brightest future in Israel, especially a 2009  Domaine Netofa 
($21) from Lower Galilee, a well-wrought Rhone-style red with
some mourvedre in it. If you like your wines plummy, the 2005
Yarden Syrah ($25) with 14.5 percent alcohol is a dead ringer
for some of the bolder Australian Shirazes.  Focus and breeding will come with time. The proverb of
Ecclesiastes 9:7 seems truer than ever during the holidays:
“Eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with a merry heart;
for God now accepteth thy works.”  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 John Mariani  at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 