-- Mitsubishi Financial Units Divided on Forecasts for Japanese Bond Yields
-- B y   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2010-11-29T00:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/mitsubishi-financial-units-divided-on-targets-for-japan-bonds.html
Whither Japan’s bond yields?
According to  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , they may hold
near current levels through the end of the fiscal year. Or they
may plunge back toward a seven-year low, depending on whom you
ask at Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank.  Tatsushi Shikano , senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co., on Nov. 18 said 10-year yields will be
at 1.15 percent by the end of March. Two days earlier,  Takehiro Sato , his counterpart at the  Morgan Stanley  MUFG Securities Co.
brokerage unit, projected yields will drop to 0.8 percent.  “We don’t provide company-wide views. Each economist and
strategist releases his or her own projections,” said  Susumu Taroura , a Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley spokesman in Tokyo.
Morgan Stanley MUFG is a “separate company with separate
operations."  Natsuo Nishio, a spokesman at Morgan Stanley MUFG said the
two companies maintain their own research functions, and it was
natural for their analysis and market views to differ.  The Mitsubishi UFJ group invested $9 billion in Morgan
Stanley in 2008 and this May started Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities, which includes the Japanese company’s
wholesale and retail operations in Japan and Morgan Stanley’s
investment-banking unit. Morgan Stanley MUFG houses the U.S.
firm’s remaining businesses in Japan.  Each  business  division at Mitsubishi UFJ does its own
fundamental analysis and offers forecasts for bond yields,
stocks and currencies, said  Jun Ishii , chief fixed-income
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley. He forecasts 10-
year bond yields will slide to about 0.95 percent by the end of
March.  Yield Survey  Ten-year  yields  reached 1.190 percent last week, the most
since Sept. 6 while still the lowest among 32 global bond
markets tracked by Bloomberg. They reached 0.82 percent last
month, the least since 2003. The yield will end this year at
1.04 percent before rising to 1.12 percent in March and 1.24
percent by the end of 2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  House views were common in Japan in the 1980s, until
consolidation in the financial industry brought together
overlapping departments and analysts, said Ishii at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley. Japanese investors don’t seem uncomfortable
with the differing views, he said.  Mitsubishi UFJ itself was created in the 2005 merger of
Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group Inc. and UFJ Holdings Inc.  The practice of having different outlooks isn’t unusual in
Japan, said  Yuuki Sakurai , who helps oversee the equivalent of
$8.7 billion as chief executive officer at  Fukoku Capital
Management Inc.  in Tokyo.  ‘Unified Views’  ‘‘Unified views are not interesting,” said Sakurai.
“There should be a variety of opinions. I want to know about
the thinking process of the analysts, rather than get the right
forecasts."  Multiple views within one company can cause confusion in
the market, said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior investor in Tokyo
at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of
$35.9 billion.  ‘‘I can understand that there may be many opinions within
one company, but there should be only one opinion as the house
view,’’ said Nakamura, whose company is part of Mizuho Financial
Group Inc., Japan’s second-largest publicly traded bank by
assets.  Mizuho employs a similar practice to the Mitsubishi group,
with two brokerages in the group -- Mizuho Securities Co. and
Mizuho Investors Securities Co. -- releasing separate analysis
and forecasts.  Akihiko Inoue, chief market strategist at Mizuho Investors
expects 10-year Japanese yields will be at 1.1 percent at the
end of March. Testuya Miura, chief market analyst at Mizuho
Securities, is targeting 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 