-- Liverpool's Jamie Carragher May Be Out for Six Weeks: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-11-29T10:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/liverpool-s-jamie-carragher-may-be-out-for-six-weeks-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Carragher Injury  Liverpool defender  Jamie Carragher  will be out for four to
six weeks after dislocating a shoulder in yesterday’s 2-1 defeat
at Tottenham,  the Sun  reported.  Aaron Lennon  grabbed a late winner for Spurs, who moved
into fifth spot, five places above Liverpool.  “It was cruel to come away with nothing having lost our
talismanic center-half, and then paid the price for not dealing
with a routine long ball,” Liverpool manager  Roy Hodgson  was
cited as saying by the newspaper.  Reds’ ‘Sad’ Draw  Hodgson said his team’s F.A. Cup third-round matchup at
Manchester United is “sad” for the sport, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  “It will be an excellent game of football but it’s a bit
unfortunate that two Premier League teams of the quality of
Manchester United and Liverpool get drawn together in the third
round,” Hodgson said. “I always feel that’s a bit sad.”  It’s the only all-Premier League game in the draw.  Ancelotti for Roma?  Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti , facing speculation about
his future, has been offered a route out of Stamford Bridge by
Roma,  the Independent  reported.  The Blues, who drew 1-1 at Newcastle yesterday, have lost
top place in the Premier League to Manchester United. Ancelotti
has expressed unhappiness with recent developments at his club,
including the firing of assistant manager  Ray Wilkins , the
newspaper said.  Roma, where Ancelotti used to play, is understood to have
been in touch with him, the Independent said. The Italian team
is eight points behind Serie A leader AC Milan after a 3-1
defeat at Palermo yesterday.  Newspaper reports at the weekend linked Barcelona coach  Pep Guardiola  with a possible switch to Chelsea.  Wolves Signing?  Wolves may bid 200,000 pounds ($312,000) for Mali
international striker Mamadou Bagayoko, who spent three days on
trial with the club last week,  the Daily Mirror  reported.  The 31-year-old is out of contract with French team Nice at
the end of the season.  Life’s a Beach  Current cold weather in Britain may force Blackpool coach
 Ian Holloway  to take his players to the local beach for
training, the  Mirror  reported.  The Seasiders don’t have indoor playing facilities and if
their training ground is frozen the team may take to the sand
while preparing to host Manchester United next weekend, the
newspaper added. Indoor aerobics are another option.  “We went to train on the beach last season but it was
frozen,” Holloway said. “So we went to the casino instead, got
the bacon sandwiches in and organized a poker tournament, which
they loved. But that’s not what you need to do before playing
Man. United, is it?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 