-- Ivory Coast Government, Opposition Trade Allegations As Results Trickle In
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-11-29T19:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/ivory-coast-s-government-and-opposition-trade-allegations-after-election.html
Ivory Coast ’s Interior Ministry and
the opposition traded allegations of voter intimidation and
irregularities as early results were announced by the electoral
commission from yesterday’s presidential run-off election.  Former Prime Minister  Alassane Ouattara  led in overseas
ballots counted from 16 countries, with 59.97 percent, or 6,371
votes, Bamba Yacouba, a spokesman with the electoral commission,
said in Abidjan today. President  Laurent Gbagbo , who has ruled
the world’s largest cocoa producer for a decade, got 40.03
percent, or 4,252 votes. The results don’t include Ivorians
living in former colonial ruler France, where the vote was
cancelled, Yacouba said, without giving a reason. More results
will be announced tomorrow morning, he added.  Affi N’Guessan, a former prime minister and spokesman for
Gbagbo’s party, said today they would demand votes from three
regions in the north be cancelled amid allegations of fraud. In
a statement read on television late yesterday, an Interior
Ministry spokesman, Auguste Gnahoua Zoguehi, said the opposition
blocked people from voting, stole and destroyed ballot boxes,
and opened fire on civilians. Ouattara’s party countered that
opposition supporters were barred from voting in the western and
central cocoa-producing regions and in two suburbs of Abidjan,
Fraternite Matin reported today, citing party spokesman Marcel
Amon Tanoh.  Dispute Likely  “It is likely that we are heading towards a dispute over
results,” said Gilles Yabi, an independent West African analyst
based in an interview in Abidjan. “It does not bode well for
what will happen in the coming days. I fear that the outcome
will not be accepted by the losing side.”  At least six people died during clashes in the run up to
the election in the West African nation that has been divided
between a rebel-held north and a government-controlled south
since an uprising in 2002. Ouattara gains most of his support
from the north, while Gbagbo is popular in the south. Both
candidates have pledged to respect results given by the
electoral commission.  Cocoa for March delivery slid 0.4 percent, or 8 pounds, to
1,866 pounds ($2,902) per metric ton in London.  Young-jin Choi, the head of the United Nations’
peacekeeping mission in the country, told reporters today that
there were “no major incidents” during the vote.  Gbagbo, who has imposed a night time curfew until Dec. 2,
received 38 percent of the votes in the first round on Oct. 31,
winning 10 of 13 regions in the south. Ouattara got 32 percent
of the votes, winning a landslide in the north.  The European Union’s observer mission said yesterday that
they were investigating reports that pro-Gbagbo youth had set up
roadblocks in the southwestern region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 