-- Japan's Unemployment Rate Climbs to 5.1% in October
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-29T23:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/japan-s-unemployment-rate-climbs-to-5-1-in-october-as-payrolls-reduced.html
Japan’s unemployment rate in October
unexpectedly rose as employers cut payrolls the most since May,
indicating a weakening in the job market as the expiry of
stimulus programs weighs on domestic demand.  The  jobless rate  climbed to 5.1 percent from 5 percent in
September, the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo. The median
 forecast  of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 5
percent.  A report yesterday indicated that consumers are cutting
back on purchases after the end of stimulus measures including
government subsidies for energy-efficient vehicles. Slumping
auto output and slowing exports suggest the economic outlook is
weak, according to economist  Yonosuke Iwata .  “The recovery has been slow,” said Iwata, an economist at
Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “Over time, we’re
likely to see a spillover of the decline in production,
resulting in an adjustment in employment” in the manufacturing
sector, he said.  The economy lost 180,000 jobs in October from a month
earlier, seasonally adjusted figures show.  Retail sales  slid for the first time this year as spending
on cars slumped 24.1 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
drop since comparable data became available in 1980.  In one encouraging sign for hiring, there were 93 newly
advertised jobs in October for every 100 people who started
looking for work that month, the most since 2008, the Labor
Ministry said in a separate report today. Economists consider it
a leading indicator for employment. The  job-to-applicant ratio 
climbed to 0.56, meaning there were 56 job openings for every
100 candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  