-- Japan’s Production Fell for Fifth Month in October
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-11-29T23:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/japan-s-production-fell-for-fifth-month-in-october-on-weaker-global-demand.html
Japan’s industrial production fell
for a fifth month in October as a slowdown in global demand
crimps exports and the government’s stimulus effects wear off.  Factory output declined 1.8 percent from September, when it
dropped 1.6 percent, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today. The
median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a 3.2 percent decline.  Today’s report adds to evidence that Japan’s recovery is
losing momentum after figures released last week showed exports
grew at the slowest pace this year. Toyota Motor Corp. is among
automakers scaling back output after a government subsidy
program for fuel-efficient cars ended in September, a factor
that together with a stronger yen threatens profits.  “The weakness in production reflects poor demand both at
home and abroad and a cautious stance among manufacturers,”  Susumu Kato , chief economist for Japan in Tokyo at Credit
Agricole CIB and CLSA, said before the report was released.
“Production is in a modest adjustment phase.”  The economic impact of a fall-off in sales after the last-
minute purchases for cars would be ”huge,” according to Naoki Tsuchiyama, a market economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.
Transport equipment accounts for about 14 percent of
manufacturers’ gross domestic product, he said.  Consumers rushed to buy vehicles before the end of the
government’s subsidy program, helping the nation’s economy grow
at a 3.9 percent annual pace last quarter.  Toyota, Honda  Toyota Motor, the world’s biggest automaker, said last week
that its domestic vehicle production fell for a second month in
October. Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second
and third largest automakers, also cut their domestic output.  Japan’s shipments of rolled-aluminum products increased at
a slower pace last month than September as demand from the  auto
industry  weakened after the government ended the subsidy program.  Exporter earnings are also under threat from the yen’s
appreciation.  Nikon Corp ., the Japanese maker of cameras, lenses
and chip-making equipment, this month cut its full-year
operating profit and revenue forecasts, citing a stronger yen.
The company revised its assumptions for the currency’s exchange
rate to the dollar to 80 yen for the six months from Oct. 1,
from 90 yen projected three months ago.  The Japanese parliament passed on Nov. 26 an extra budget
to fund a stimulus package aimed at fighting deflation and
combating the stronger yen. To foster growth, the  Bank of Japan 
last month cut its benchmark interest rate and created an asset-
purchase fund.  Still, a slump in production is unlikely to last long
because there’s no evidence for “an unintentional build-up” in
inventories,  Kyohei Morita , chief economist at  Barclays Capital 
in Tokyo.  “Although production will likely be in a soft patch
through the January-March period, we do not look for a double-
dip,” Morita said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  