-- Jeter Must Walk A-Rod's Path to Warren Buffett: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-11-29T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/jeter-must-walk-a-rod-s-path-to-warren-buffett-scott-soshnick-commentary.html
We know that  Derek Jeter  is an
astute judge of all things bats and gloves. It’s time to start
questioning whether that same instinct and savvy extends from
baseball to business.  Jeter, the free agent, is beginning to sound a bit like
former basketball player  Latrell Sprewell , who once bemoaned the
challenge of feeding his family on $14 million a year.  Thankfully, unlike the coach-choking Sprewell, the manager-
pleasing Jeter isn’t anywhere near clueless enough to spout any
similar silliness. That said, Jeter’s message is the same. It’s
a refrain we’re accustomed to hearing from professional athletes
these days and it goes something like this: me, me, me; more,
more, more.  The New York Yankees, who just finished paying their
captain  $189 million , including more than $22 million last
season, have offered Jeter $45 million over the next three
seasons.  That’s $15 million a season for a 36-year-old shortstop
who, in the cutthroat world of what-have-you-done-for-me-lately
sports, hit .270 with 10 home runs and 67 runs batted in last
season. That batting average, by the way, is the lowest since
Jeter became a full-time player in 1996.  Using those statistics, the club’s offer breaks down to
about $95,000 a game, $22,600 per at-bat, $83,800 for each hit.
Jeter said no. At least his representative,  Casey Close , said
no, adding an edge to the negotiations by saying he was baffled
by the team’s stance.  “They have asked for more,” Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman  told ESPN, declining to offer specifics. “More years
and more money.”  Word is that Jeter is looking for $150 million over six
years.  Extracting Cash  Regular readers know how fond I am of lambasting the
Yankees, who will extract whatever cash they can from the
customers without regard to the father forced to explain for the
umpteenth straight season why it’s the boob tube instead of
tickets. Everything the Yankees do is a reminder that Major
League Baseball is a business. A multibillion-dollar  business .  This would be a perfect time for Jeter to pick up the
phone, call his teammate,  Alex Rodriguez , who knows a little
something about how fast negotiations can turn ugly, and ask for
 Warren Buffett ’s phone number.  The  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  chief executive officer has
advised a number of marquee athletes, including A-Rod, who took
Buffett’s advice, picked up the telephone and repaired whatever
damage had been done when negotiations broke off after the third
baseman opted out of his contract and became a free agent.  Market Pricing  Can’t you just see Jeter asking Buffett for his counsel on
coming up with a number? Buffett, of course, wouldn’t offer a
specific dollar amount. He’d tell Jeter that he’s worth whatever
someone is willing to pay, whether it’s the Yankees, Red Sox or
Royals.  And that’s where things get sticky for Jeter, who, because
of reasons outlined before in this space, is worth far more to
the Yankees than any other ballclub. No team is going to pay
Jeter as much as the Yankees, who in the past have bid against
themselves.  The Yankees’ offer, Cashman said, takes into account
Jeter’s contributions to the franchise -- on the field and off.
No one with the Yankees has said take it or leave it, but you
get the sense that’s where they’re headed.  “We’ve encouraged him to test the market and see if
there’s something he would prefer other than this,” Cashman
said. “If he can, fine. That’s the way it works.”  Baseball 101.  Jeter shouldn’t count on a massive outcry from fans in tune
with the front page as well as the back page. Folks in the
bleacher seats understand foreclosures,  unemployment  and credit-
card debt.  Limits of Loyalty  Loyalty has limits -- even when the subject is the beloved
Jeter, who will have a hard time getting any offers for half of
what the Yankees are willing to pay a good soldier on the
precipice of joining baseball’s  3,000-hit  club.  It’s a feel-good story anywhere. It’s a money-maker in the
Bronx, where maybe Jeter and the Yankees can come up with some
sort of marketing deal surrounding the accomplishment.  Yankees fans want a winner. If management intimates that
more for Jeter means less for, oh, say, free-agent pitcher  Cliff Lee , something tells me the sympathies of the win-or-else set
will lean toward the southpaw and not the shortstop.  Jeter is usually an athlete who does right. He’s wrong on
this one.  Two years ago, knowing this day was coming, I asked Jeter
if he would be willing to play for another club. “Hopefully
not,” he said during a conversation that was 90 percent
business, 10 percent baseball.  “I hope I don’t have to answer that question and I can
stay here,” he said. “You don’t always have that final say
so.”  That isn’t the case this time. The Yankees want to keep
Jeter, whose instincts and savvy should be telling him to sign
on the dotted line.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  