-- South Korea's KIC Plans Joint Investments With Sovereign Funds Next Year
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-29T15:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/kic-plans-more-joint-investments-with-sovereign-funds-next-year.html
Korea Investment Corp. , the nation’s
$37 billion sovereign wealth fund, plans to make three to four
strategic investments next year with other state funds to
diversify from traditional assets such as bonds and equities.  The Seoul-based fund, known as KIC, posted a 7 percent to 8
percent return this year from stocks and bonds traded in public
markets, which make up the bulk of the portfolio, Chief
Investment Officer  Scott Kalb  said. Alternative assets such as
private equity, real estate and strategic investments including
 Chesapeake Energy Corp.  have all made money, he said.  “We are in discussions with our counterparts, sovereign
wealth funds all over,” Seoul-based Kalb, 54, said in an
interview yesterday. “We have already looked at a number of
transactions together and we’re looking at some that are pending
-- our end goal there is to wind up having a diversified
strategic portfolio in a variety of sectors and countries.”  Kalb has pushed to diversify KIC’s investments since he
joined the fund in April 2009 for a three-year term. KIC is
planning strategic investments based on a so-called barbell
approach, investing in areas where there’s a “structural
deficit” in Korea’s economy such as natural resources, as well
as industries that may have synergies in areas such as clean
technology, he said.  2008 Lessons  Sovereign funds and investors worldwide are diversifying
their portfolios after the global financial crisis created high
correlation across markets, Kalb said. He’s seeking to double
alternative investments to about 20 percent of the portfolio
from 10 percent, declining to give a specific time frame.  “One of the lessons of 2008 is that you can’t just rely on
the public markets and specifically very narrow definition of
that for your portfolio because you’re not going to get enough
diversification,” said Kalb, a former hedge fund manager at
Tudor Investment Corp. “The traditional space is going to be
challenged for quite some time.”  The  MSCI World Index  lost a record 42 percent in 2008 amid
writedowns from U.S. subprime mortgages.  KIC was set up in July 2005 to invest part of South Korea’s
foreign-exchange reserves overseas. It began investing November
2006 as the government committed capital of about $20 billion in
the second half that year, Kalb said.  Public market investments account for 90 percent of the
portfolio and has returned 19.3 percent since inception through
October, compared with the global equity benchmark’s 11.6
percent decline, Kalb said. For that traditional portfolio, the
fund is $4 billion “in the black” since inception based on
performance, excluding the new capital contributed, he said.  Chesapeake Investment  KIC joined  Temasek Holdings Pte  of Singapore and China
Investment Corp. in a group that in June bought a total of $900
million of 5.75 percent convertible  preferred stock  in
Chesapeake, the third-largest U.S. natural-gas producer. The
Korean fund invested $200 million in the Oklahoma City-based
company, and the value of the investment is up about 20 percent,
Kalb said.  KIC also holds more than  60 million shares  in  Bank of
America Corp. , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
invested $2 billion in Merrill Lynch & Co. in January 2008, nine
months before the firm was sold to Bank of America.  Government of Singapore Investment Corp. , manager of more
than $100 billion of Singapore’s foreign exchange reserves,
allocated 25 percent of its portfolio to alternative
investments, it said in September.  ‘Not Expensive’  KIC is increasing its weighting both in public and non-
traditional assets such as private equity and real estate in the
developing world because of its prospects, Kalb said.  “The growth story is still intact and that they are there
still not expensive or in bubble territory,” Kalb said. “It’s
positive that many countries in the developing world are taking
steps to tighten because they are trying to be responsible for
what’s going on and not just step on the gas and let things run
until they blow up.”  Among the so-called BRIC markets, Brazil, India and China
have all raised benchmark interest rates this year, while Russia
removed a pledge to keep borrowing costs at a record low “for
the coming months.”  KIC has done a few infrastructure and real estate
investments in China. It bought properties in other Asian
markets, African private equity, and is currently looking at
investments in India, Latin America, and more in China, he said.  Kalb also sees opportunities in credit, distressed debt,
refinancing and restructuring across different assets ranging
from private equity, real estate and infrastructure, he said.
It’s is looking at opportunities in Japanese property because of
its attractive yield, he said.  For its hedge-fund investments, macro strategy, which
wagers on trends in stocks, bonds and currencies worldwide, has
contributed the most to the return because of the highly
correlated market environment, Kalb said, adding that he
continues to favor the strategy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 