-- Kraft Challenges Starbucks’ Attempt to End Agreement
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   B u r t   H e l m
-- 2010-11-29T21:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/kraft-foods-challenges-starbucks-attempt-to-terminate-agreement.html
Kraft Foods Inc.  said it would
challenge Starbucks Corp.’s attempt to end a retail grocery
coffee-distribution agreement between the two companies and has
initiated an arbitration proceeding.  To end the deal  Starbucks  must compensate Northfield,
Illinois-based Kraft for the “fair market value” of the
business, plus possibly a premium of as much as 35 percent of
that value, Kraft said today in a statement.  On November 4, Starbucks Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said he planned to terminate the distribution agreement,
which began in 1998. During the past year, the world’s largest
coffee chain has sought to generate more of its revenue from
grocery stores. It introduced Via, its single-serve coffee
product, in U.S. locations in May through a separate
distribution agreement with Jacksonville, Florida-based Acosta
Sales & Marketing Co.  “It is curious that they are now trying to get this
business back for free,”  Mike Mitchell , a Kraft spokesman, said
in a telephone interview. A Starbucks spokeswoman didn’t
immediately reply to a request for comment.  Since the companies began working with each other,
Starbucks’ retail-grocery coffee business has grown from $50
million to $500 million in annual revenue, Kraft said.  “Kraft reasonably expected Starbucks to honor the
contract,” Kraft General Counsel  Marc Firestone  said in the
statement. The contract “remains in effect indefinitely,” the
Kraft statement said.  Starbucks said Kraft didn’t meet its responsibilities to
“protect and promote” its brands, which include Seattle’s Best
coffee. The coffee company said its actions were “consistent
with the terms of the agreement,” which was set to expire in
2014. It “strongly disagrees” that the agreement is perpetual,
Starbucks said.  Kraft fell 11 cents to $30.19 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Starbucks, which is based in
Seattle, dropped 35 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $30.79 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 