-- Krona Rebound Seen by Riksbank With Sweden Strategist Favorite
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-11-29T15:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/krona-rebound-forecast-by-riksbank-as-sweden-becomes-strategists-favorite.html
The Swedish krona’s biggest monthly
decline against the dollar since May has everyone from traders
to the country’s central bankers anticipating a rebound.  “The fundamentals speak for a stronger krona,” Riksbank
Deputy Governor  Barbro Wickman-Parak  said at a seminar organized
by the Centre for Business and Policy Studies, a research group
in Stockholm, on Nov. 23. “Our forecast is that it will
strengthen.”  Strategists have raised the fourth-quarter median forecast
for the krona against the dollar by 22 percent since June, the
most of any pair tracked by Bloomberg, expecting Sweden’s
economy will grow faster and interest rates will rise more than
in the U.S. and Europe. Traders may receive a 4.8 percent return
by year-end after the 3.9 percent drop since the Riksbank scaled
back its rate outlook on Oct. 26, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The krona is a kind of haven that still offers value”
because of the nation’s relatively high interest rates, said
 Christoph Kind , who manages about $20 billion as head of asset
allocation at Frankfurt Trust. Kind has held a larger percentage
of krona-denominated assets most of this year than is contained
in indexes he uses to gauge performance.  Faster Growth  Sweden’s export-driven economy will expand 4.8 percent this
year and 3.7 percent in 2011, the Finance Ministry said on Oct.
12. The growth projections compare with next year’s forecasts
for 2.5 percent in the U.S. and 1.4 percent for the euro area in
Bloomberg surveys of economists. Exports make up about 50
percent of the nation’s gross domestic product.  The Riksbank said Oct. 26 that the benchmark  interest rate ,
currently at 1 percent, will average 1.3 percent in the first
quarter of 2011 and 2 percent in the fourth quarter. The
European Central Bank and Federal Reserve will wait until the
last three months of the year to lift borrowing costs, with the
ECB’s main rate rising to 1.25 percent from 1 percent, and the
Fed moving its benchmark to 0.50 percent from a range of zero to
0.25 percent, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Before November’s decline, the krona staged the biggest
two-month rally versus the dollar since April 2009, jumping
about 10 percent. It’s set for the biggest annual gain versus
the euro since the common currency was introduced in 1999.  Krona Forecasts  The currency traded at 7.0538 per dollar as of 3.11 p.m. in
London, and bought 9.2241 per euro. The krona has advanced 2.4
percent this year, compared with a 0.7 percent gain for the
dollar and a 9 percent drop for the euro, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track the
performance of a basket of 10 currencies. Over the past three
months, only the New Zealand and Australian dollars have
strengthened more, the indexes show.  Analysts predict the krona will appreciate to 6.67 per U.S.
dollar by year-end, according to the median of 17 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg. In June, before the Riksbank began
increasing its main rate, they estimated the currency would
weaken to 8.12 against the dollar by Dec. 31.  The krona dropped this month as the debt crisis in the
European Union, which accounts for about 60 percent of the
nation’s exports, deepened. Last week Ireland became the second
euro member, after Greece, to seek an EU and International
Monetary Fund bailout. The cost of rescuing the nation’s banks
prompted Standard & Poor’s to cut the country’s credit ranking
by two levels to A on Nov. 23.  ‘Too Strong’  Since reaching its 2010 high of 112.97 on Oct. 25, Deutsche
Bank AG’s trade-weighted index for the krona, which measures the
currency against those of major trading partners, fell 3 percent
to 109.60 on Nov. 12. The index is up 9.8 percent since November
2009.  “By all accounts, the krona still looks too strong,” said
 Lauren Rosborough , a senior strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.
in London, who expects the currency to weaken to 7.24 per dollar
by year-end. “From their comments in October it’s clear that
the Riksbank were looking at external influences on the Swedish
economy, and there aren’t many positives out there.”  The currency has become a favorite for traders as a refuge
from the debt crisis. Even though Sweden’s $406 billion economy
is the world’s 22nd biggest, behind nations including Turkey and
Indonesia according to Bloomberg data, the krona is the ninth
most-actively traded legal tender. It accounted for a 2.2
percent share of the $4 trillion a day foreign-exchange market,
according to a Bank for International Settlements survey on
released Sept. 1.  Searching for Yield  Before reducing its rate forecast, the Riksbank predicted
the seven-day repo level would average 1.4 percent in the first
quarter of next year and 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter.  Capital is still flowing into Sweden as investors seek
higher yields, Riksbank Deputy Governor  Lars Nyberg  said in an
interview in Stockholm on Nov. 11. With the EU’s second-smallest
budget deficit in 2009, the government has avoided spending cuts
that are roiling the region’s economies. Sweden’s national debt
office forecasts a budget surplus for 2011.  The benchmark OMX Stockholm 30 Index of stocks climbed 17
percent this year, behind only Denmark and Iceland in western
Europe. Gothenburg-based  Volvo AB , the second-largest
truckmaker, led gains with a 63 percent surge. Oil company
 Lundin Petroleum AB , based in Stockholm, jumped 61 percent, the
second-best performer.  Despite the Mess  “Sweden is one of those countries that is doing well
despite the whole euro mess, and this will continue,” said
 Adnan Akant , who helps oversee $34.8 billion as head of foreign
exchange in New York at Fischer Francis Trees & Watts.  Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  plans to refrain from
seeking a weaker currency to protect the economy. Since Brazil’s
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  pledged in September to buy
excess dollars to combat a “currency war,” officials from
South Korea to South Africa have tried to limit foreign-exchange
gains with policies ranging from taxing capital inflows to
incentives for local investors moving money abroad.  Currencies “should be market valued,” Reinfeldt said in
an interview in Reykjavik on Nov. 2. Protecting exports through
intervention prolongs competitive disadvantages that exchange
rates can’t fix, he said.  Demand for three-month options that grant the right to buy
the euro against the Scandinavian currency relative to those
allowing for sales plunged since May. The so-called 25-delta
risk reversal on the euro-krona exchange rate fell to 1.30
percentage points last week from 2.83 on May 26, a 15-month
high.  “Sweden doesn’t have to face a severe austerity plan that
many other countries are having,” said  Eric Busay , a currencies
and international fixed-income money manager in Sacramento at
California Public Employees’ Retirement System, the largest U.S.
public pension, with $219 billion in assets. “That is one of
the reasons why the krona has outperformed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  