-- Nakaima Re-Elected Governor of Okinawa, Urges Talks on U.S. Marine Base
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-11-29T00:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/nakaima-urges-talks-on-u-s-okinawa-bases-after-winning-election.html
Hirokazu Nakaima  was re-elected
governor of Okinawa and reiterated his call for removing an
American military base from the island that has damaged ties
between the U.S. and Japan.  Nakaima, 71, defeated Yoichi Iha yesterday, winning 52
percent of the vote to gain a second four-year term, according
to the Okinawa election committee  website . Iha, 58, a former
local mayor, received 46 percent of ballots.  Both candidates campaigned in favor of moving the Marine
Futenma Air Base outside of Okinawa. Relations between the U.S.
and Japan soured during an eight-month dispute over where to
relocate the facility. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has pledged to
implement an agreement with the Obama administration to transfer
the base to another part of the island in the face of local
opposition.  “The U.S. bases exist not only for Okinawa but for all of
Japan and East Asia,” Nakaima said on NHK Television after his
victory. “Since it’s difficult to find a relocation site in
Okinawa, I want all of Japan to think about a solution.”  The U.S. pushed Japan to uphold a 2006 agreement to move
Futenma within Okinawa, an island 950 miles (1,530 kilometers)
south of Tokyo, by 2014 as part of a $10.3 billion plan that
would also transfer 8,000 Marines to Guam. The people of
Okinawa, which hosts 75 percent of the U.S. bases in Japan, want
it moved elsewhere, citing increased crime, pollution and noise.  Nakaima originally supported the U.S. accord before
changing his mind as public opinion hardened.  “Kan can probably negotiate with Nakaima because he used
to support the relocation if Kan shows sincerity and emphasizes
the importance of the Japan-U.S. alliance,” said  Kazuhisa Kawakami , professor of political science at Meiji Gakuin
University in Tokyo. “But it will be still impossible to move
Futenma as originally scheduled.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  