-- National Bank of Canada May Boost Its Dividend for First Time Since 2007
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-29T21:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/national-bank-of-canada-may-boost-its-dividend-for-first-time-since-2007.html
National Bank of Canada  may become
the first of the country’s biggest banks to raise its quarterly
dividend in more than two years as earnings rebound, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Montreal-based bank, the first Canadian lender to
report fourth-quarter results, will increase its payout 2 cents
to 64 cents a share tomorrow, according to the  Bloomberg
Dividend Forecast . National Bank hasn’t raised its dividend
since 2007 and may be the only Canadian bank to lift the payout
this quarter, according to the forecast, which has an accuracy
rate of 83 percent.  “They’re ready, they’re in a position to do so,” said
 Tony Demarin , chief investment officer at BCV Asset Management
in Winnipeg, Manitoba, which manages about C$235 million ($231.7
million), including bank shares. “The capital base is ready and
so is the payout ratio.”  Canadian banks, ranked the world’s soundest for three
straight years by the World Economic Forum, were instructed by
the country’s financial-services regulator to conserve capital
during the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. In
September, the regulator relaxed that stance, saying banks don’t
need “increased conservatism” in capital management.  That may pave the way for the banks to boost payouts as
early as this week, ending a two-year streak without a dividend
increase for the six biggest banks, the longest freeze in more
than a decade. National Bank paid out 40 percent of its  profit 
to shareholders in the fiscal third quarter, the bottom of its
40 percent to 50 percent dividend payout target.  Dividend Yield  The bank’s dividend yield, measuring the payout relative to
the stock price, is 3.6 percent, a three-year low. Claude
Breton, a spokesman for Montreal-based National Bank, declined
to comment.  Laurentian Bank of Canada  and Canadian Western Bank, the
country’s seventh- and eighth-largest banks, may also increase
payouts this quarter, according to forecasts by Macquarie
Capital Markets, Scotia Capital and Desjardins Securities.
Montreal-based Laurentian Bank reports Dec. 8, while Edmonton,
Alberta-based Canadian Western is scheduled for Dec. 7.  Dividend increases by the smaller lenders may set the stage
for larger competitors such as Royal Bank of Canada and Toronto-
Dominion Bank next year, analysts said.  Canadian lenders may be ahead of U.S. banks such as U.S.
Bancorp and JPMorgan Chase & Co., which may not raise payouts
until the first quarter of 2011, according to analysts at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Long Drought  “If you’ve been a bank investor for a long period of time,
this has been quite the drought,” said Demarin. “Instead of
looking backwards, let’s start looking forward over the next two
and three years, recognizing that the Canadian banks have the
capital to meet the new capital requirements.”  The eight banks may report a 1 percent average increase in
profit before one-time items for the period ended Oct. 31,
according to Macquarie bank analyst  Sumit Malhotra . A reduction
in provisions for credit losses will probably offset a decline
in trading revenue. The bank group had a 5 percent profit
decline on that basis in the fiscal third quarter, he said.  “It’s not going to be a great quarter for them, just more
of the same,” said  John Kinsey , who helps manage C$1 billion at
Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto. “We’re looking at a slower
Canadian economy than some people had thought.”  National Bank is expected to report profit before one-time
items of C$1.55 a share, according to the average  estimate  of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. That’s an 11 percent
increase from a year earlier.  CIBC Increase  Toronto-Dominion  may have profit of C$1.46 a share,
unchanged from a year ago, while  Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce  may earn C$1.63 a share, a 16 percent increase,
according to Bloomberg estimates. Both Toronto-based lenders
report Dec. 2.  Royal Bank , the country’s largest bank, may report profit
of C$1.01 a share, a 4.7 percent decline, while  Bank of Nova
Scotia  may earn C$1 a share, a 20 percent increase. Both banks
are scheduled to release results Dec. 3.  Bank of Montreal  may say profit was C$1.21 a share, a 7.1
percent increase, according to estimates. The country’s fourth-
largest bank is scheduled to report Dec. 7.  National Bank rose 15 cents to C$68.73 at 4:10 p.m. trading
on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The 10-member  Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Banks Index  has gained 7.5 percent this year, with
Canadian Western the top gainer and Royal Bank the worst-
performing bank stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 