-- Near-Bankrupt Vinashin May Owe 3% of Vietnamese Banks' Loans, Moody's Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-29T08:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/near-bankrupt-vinashin-may-be-3-of-vietnam-lenders-portfolios.html
Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group,
the near-bankrupt ship maker, may account for as much as 3
percent of some Vietnamese banks’ loan portfolios, putting them
at risk for restructuring, Moody’s Investors Service said.  State-owned Vietnam Shipbuilding, also known as Vinashin,
said Nov. 19 it may delay a $60 million principal payment on a
$600 million loan, according to  Karolyn Seet , a Singapore-based
financial institutions analyst at Moody’s, who wrote she now
questions the extent of government backing for the company.  Long-term delays in debt repayment and a lack of government
support could force banks to restructure loans to Vinashin or
write off their debt and damage their capital, she said in a
note today. The company had accumulated total debt of about 86
trillion dong ($4.41 billion) as of June, the government said in
August.  “Before this, we thought the government would be willing
to step in and bail out any bank in time of default,” she said
in a telephone interview. “With this case coming along we are
not sure if the support is as high as we originally thought.”  Vinashin has 16.2 trillion dong of bonds and loans maturing
through 2017, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield
on its 9 percent dong-denominated notes due in April 2017 rose
to 21.16 percent today, the highest in at least a year,
according to Deutsche Bank Vietnam prices.  For some Vietnamese lenders, especially the state-owned
commercial banks, Vinashin is their largest debt concentration,
Seet wrote. Most of those loans have not been written off and
are still categorized as performing or “special-mention
loans.”  Management Ousted  Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung  replaced the company’s top
management and began a probe of its operations. The
government also announced a restructuring of the group.  Vinashin will do the restructuring on its own, Chief
Executive Officer  Nguyen Ngoc Su  said by telephone today, giving
no timeframe. He denied earlier reports that KPMG is being hired
as an adviser on the restructuring.  Vinashin used resources obtained from government guarantees
to invest in non-core activities, falsified financial reports
and is on the verge of default, the World Bank  said in October .  The company will now focus on shipbuilding and repair and
other related businesses, Moody’s said.  “The Vinashin episode shows that timely government support
to both the corporate as well as banking sectors cannot be
reliably assumed,” Seet wrote. “More importantly, the episode
raises further questions about the risk of further credit losses
in loans to Vietnam’s state-owned enterprise sector.”  Vietnam’s banking industry may have an overall loan
exposure to state-owned companies of as much as 40 percent,
according to Moody’s.  -- Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City With assistance from  Uyen Nguyen  in Hanoi. Editors:  James Gunsalus ,  Russell Ward .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net . 