-- New Jersey Must Repay $271 Million Used on Canceled Rail Tunnel, U.S. Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-11-29T19:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/new-jersey-must-repay-271-million-used-on-canceled-rail-tunnel-u-s-says.html
New Jersey , where Governor  Chris Christie  canceled a proposed Hudson River rail tunnel, has until
Dec. 24 to repay the $271.1 million spent by the U.S. government
on the project.  The  Federal Transit Administration  told New Jersey Transit
Executive Director  James Weinstein  his agency had 30 days to pay
back the money, in a Nov. 24 letter released today. Christie
canceled the tunnel Oct. 27, citing expected costs to the state.  If the state doesn’t pay in full by the deadline, the
Transportation Department, which includes the transit agency,
will consider it delinquent and charge  interest  at an annual
rate that is currently 1 percent, the letter said. If the debt
becomes delinquent, it could be reported to commercial credit-
rating bureaus or bond-rating companies, the letter said.  Michael Drewniak , Christie’s spokesman, said there is
nothing to add to earlier comments by Weinstein about the U.S.
transit agency’s plan to seek repayment. He has said the state
disagrees with at least some of the administration’s claims, as
the money was used properly to pay for preliminary work.  New Jersey has 30 days from the receipt of the letter to
seek a review of the validity and amount of U.S. claims, the
letter said. If the debt is unpaid after 90 days, the federal
agency will charge interest at a 6 percent annual rate, it said.  The governor killed the planned 8.8-mile (14-kilometer)
tunnel between New Jersey and New York City, saying state
taxpayers couldn’t afford as much as $5 billion in potential
added costs on top of the project’s estimated $8.7 billion
initial price. The conduit was expected to double rush-hour
commuting capacity in and out of Manhattan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  