-- New Zealand Plans Pike River Inquiry, Checks at Other Mines After Disaster
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-29T02:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/new-zealand-plans-pike-river-inquiry-checks-at-other-mines-after-disaster.html
New Zealand Prime Minister  John Key 
said a Royal Commission will probe the causes of deadly
explosions at the Pike River Coal Co. mine, while the government
is planning a safety audit of other underground pits.  “We owe it to the families of the men who perished to find
out what happened,” Key told reporters today in Wellington.
“It is important that we take every step we can to get the
answers that these people, and all New Zealanders, need about
what happened at Pike River.”  The first blast at Wellington-based Pike River’s mine on
the West Coast of the South Island occurred on Nov. 19, followed
by a larger explosion on Nov. 24 that prompted police to say
none of the 29 workers trapped would have survived. A fourth
blast yesterday has ignited a coal fire, further hindering the
recovery of bodies.  Key said the provisional terms of reference for the
inquiry, to be headed by High Court judge Justice Graham
Panckhurst, include the causes of the explosions, the handling
of the search operations, the availability of rescue resources,
systems in place at the mine and mine safety legislation.  The three person commission will hold open hearings, mostly
in Greymouth, Key said. It could take a year to complete its
findings, or longer if separate police or Labor Department
inquiries identify wrongdoing and charges are laid, he said.  Separately, the Labor Department is seeking an overseas
expert to undertake a safety audit of New Zealand’s underground
coal mines as a matter of urgency, Key said.  Safety Audit  The mines will stay open during the audit, according to the
prime minister, who yesterday said the future of underground
mining rests with the outcome of the probe. Pike River is likely
to stay closed for some time, he said today.  “Men will not be going back into the Pike River mine until
everyone is satisfied the environment is safe,” he said.  New Zealand’s West Coast has 13 coal mines, including four
underground operations, according to the Ministry of Economic
Development’s website. Mining employs about 6,000 people,
according to the government’s  http://www.beehive.govt.nz 
website. The industry earned about NZ$1.1 billion ($820 million)
in export receipts in 2009.  A fourth explosion occurred at the mine just before 2 p.m.
local time yesterday, New Zealand police said in a statement.
The third explosion was on Nov. 26.  The fourth blast has resulted in a fire involving coal and
gas, the company said in a statement sent to the stock exchange.
Preparations are underway to inject inert gas to extinguish the
fire and enable access to recover the bodies, it said.  Insurance Claim  The fatalities this month were the country’s worst mining
disaster in 96 years.  Pike River will also conduct an internal inquiry, Chairman
 John Dow  said in today’s statement. The company has issued force
majeure notices to parties involved in its coal transport
arrangements and will be discussing commercial relationships
with other contractors, he said.  The company has material damage and business-interruption
insurance cover of NZ$100 million ($75 million) and has begun
preparing a claim, Dow said, without saying who provided the
insurance.  Much of the claim work will require damage assessment that
isn’t possible until the mine can be entered.  The company has agreed a stand-still arrangement with Bank
of New Zealand Ltd. and has received funds from 30 percent
shareholder New Zealand Oil & Gas Ltd. which, with coal
stockpiled and available for sale, allows it to pay workers and
plan the next steps, Dow said.  Drilling Delays  Pike River had agreed to sales contracts with international
customers for as much as 90 percent of output for the life of
the mine, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Whittall  said in a
presentation this month. The company is part-owned by India’s
Gujarat NRE Coke Ltd. and Saurashtra Fuels Pvt. New Zealand Oil
& Gas Ltd. is the biggest investor with a 30 percent stake.  The mine was forecast to produce 320,000 tons to 360,000
tons of coal in the year through June, the company said Oct. 19.
That almost halved an April forecast because of delays with
drilling equipment and road construction.  Key yesterday said mines such as the Solid Energy New
Zealand Ltd. Spring Creek project had a very good safety record
and he wasn’t considering closing other sites while inquiries
were underway into the fatalities.  “I haven’t had any advice to do that and I would be
reluctant to do that,” he said. “That’s one of the reasons why
we need to understand very quickly, if we can, what happened at
Pike River.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  