-- Devils' Pat Burns Remembered as a Tough Hockey Coach, Example to Youth
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-11-29T20:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/new-jersey-devils-pat-burns-remembered-as-tough-coach-example-to-youth.html
Pat Burns , who guided the New Jersey
Devils to their last Stanley Cup in 2003, was remembered by
former National Hockey League colleagues attending his funeral
in Montreal as an example for youth and a tough coach who calmly
fought cancer three times.  Burns, a native of the city who coached his hometown
Canadiens from 1988 to 1992, will be buried today after dying of
lung cancer in Sherbrooke, Quebec, on Nov. 19. The 58-year-old
had been a member of New Jersey’s coaching staff for the past
eight seasons. Earlier, he battled colon and liver cancer.  “He would have been there for me, so it’s only natural that
I could be here for him,” Canadian Olympic Committee President
 Marcel Aubut  told Quebec’s LCN television network in an
interview. “He was a true fighter. He battled three cancers and
was an example for the young. Somehow, he managed to live
through it all with serenity.”  Aubut owned the NHL’s Quebec Nordiques when Burns coached
the Canadiens. Burns later was coach of the Toronto Maple Leafs
and Boston Bruins before taking the Devils’ job in 2002.  Quebec Premier  Jean Charest , NHL Commissioner  Gary Bettman ,
Devils General Manager  Lou Lamoriello , Canadiens owner  Geoffrey Molson , Maple Leafs General Manager  Brian Burke  and current
Bruins coach  Claude Julien  are attending the service at
Montreal’s Mary, Queen of the World Cathedral. All of the
Devils’ players are also on hand, Radio-Canada television
reported.  “In the Molson family we think of him as someone who made
a big contribution to the team,” Geoffrey Molson told reporters
outside the cathedral. “Every night, we knew he wanted to
win.”  Coach of Year  Burns was a three-time winner of the Jack Adams Trophy as
the NHL’s coach of the year. He posted a career mark of 501-353-
165.  He coached the Devils from June 2002 to July 2005. He became
the 11th person in NHL history to coach 1,000 games on Feb. 27,
2004, and became the ninth to reach the 500-win plateau on March
30, 2004.  Burns led the Canadiens to the Stanley Cup final in his
first season. He joined the Maple Leafs in 1992 and the Bruins
in 1997.  “I would have liked to have played for him,”  Yvan Cournoyer , a former Canadiens captain who won 10 Stanley Cups
with the club, told Radio-Canada television. “He was a tough
coach, but an honest one. You couldn’t ask for anything more.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  