-- News Corp.'s BSkyB Bid to Be Reviewed by EU Regulators After U.K. Declines
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-11-29T11:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/news-corp-s-bskyb-bid-to-be-reviewed-by-eu-regulators-after-u-k-declines.html
News Corp.’s  proposed acquisition of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  will be reviewed by European
Union antitrust regulators after the U.K. Office of Fair Trading
declined to seek jurisdiction over the case.  The OFT didn’t ask the EU for permission to review the case
by a Nov. 26 deadline, Frank Shepherd, a spokesman for the
London-based regulator, said in a phone interview today. U.K.
Business Secretary  Vince Cable  has ordered a separate probe into
the effect of the deal on the media industry.  Media regulator Ofcom is investigating on behalf of Cable
whether the takeover of Britain’s largest pay-TV operator by the
owner of four of the biggest-selling U.K. newspapers would give
too much media control to  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. The New
York-based company offered 7.8 billion pounds ($12.2 billion)
for the 61 percent of BSkyB it doesn’t already own.  News Corp. spokeswoman  Alice Macandrew  declined to comment.
 Amelia Torres , a spokeswoman for the European Commission,
declined to comment.  Robert Fraser , a spokesman for Isleworth,
England-based BSkyB, also declined to comment.  Under European Union law, national regulators are allowed
to request jurisdiction over an antitrust case when the
transaction is primarily in their country. The OFT may have
decided not to review the deal because of Cable’s separate
probe, lawyers said last week.  December Deadlines  The EU must decide whether to clear the deal or start an
in-depth investigation by Dec. 8. Ofcom has until Dec. 31 to
decide whether to refer the case to the U.K. Competition
Commission for further investigation of the media plurality
issues.  British newspapers, the British Broadcasting Corp., phone
company BT Group Plc and the Church of England have called for
the bid to be challenged.  News Corp., attempting to gain from the steady subscription
business of Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator, asked the
European Union on Nov. 3 to approve its proposed bid for the 61
percent of BSkyB that it doesn’t already own. BSkyB in June
rejected the initial 700 pence a share offer, saying it was too
low. The companies are seeking regulatory approval before a new
offer is made.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 