-- Nigeria to Post Budget Deficit of 6.1 Percent of GDP in 2010, Aganga Says
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-11-29T17:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/nigeria-targets-2010-budget-deficit-of-6-1-aganga-says.html
Nigeria  will post a budget deficit
this year equivalent to 6.1 percent of gross domestic product
after revenue missed forecasts, Finance Minister  Olusegun Aganga 
said.  Expenditure is estimated at 5.16 trillion naira ($34.2
billion) and revenue at 3.18 trillion naira, Aganga said today
at a briefing in Abuja, the capital. There were shortfalls in
both oil and non-oil revenue, he said.  Nigeria’s parliament in July approved a 4.67 trillion-naira
budget after making additions and other changes. The revision
followed a drop in oil prices and additional expenditures to
cover increased pay and expenses related to next year’s
election. The country, Africa’s most populous and the
continent’s top oil producer, derives more than 80 percent of
its revenue from the sale of crude.  In an effort to protect domestic manufacturers and boost
revenue, the country will be imposing tariffs on goods
previously prohibited from being imported, Aganga said. Duties
ranging from 30 percent to 40 percent will be imposed on
products including furniture, textiles and drinks, he said.  The ban on the items was “ineffective,” and led to
smuggling from neighboring countries that meant the government
lost revenue, he said.  Part of the proceeds from the tariffs will be used to fund
the state-owned  Bank of Industries , which lends to small
businesses, Aganga said. Some of it will also be used to support
the textile industry.  Aganga also said he expects the sovereign wealth fund that
Nigeria plans to establish for investing savings during periods
of high oil revenue to become operational before the end of the
tenure of the current government in May next year.  Nigeria will use $1 billion to start the fund, which Aganga
said may improve the country’s rating with Fitch Ratings. The
agency lowered its outlook on Nigeria’s BB- credit rating to
“negative” from “stable” on Oct. 22, concerned about
withdrawals from the excess crude account and a drop in foreign
currency reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 