-- Noyer Says `Nonsense' That Entire Euro-Region Suffers Ireland's Problems
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-29T04:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/noyer-says-nonsense-that-entire-euro-region-suffers-ireland-s-problems.html
France’s central bank chief rejected
the view that the euro region is undergoing a systemic crisis,
playing down the risk of contagion from Ireland’s turmoil and
hailing the euro as a “tremendous success.”  It’s “nonsense” to generalize current problems to all of
Europe, Banque de France Governor  Christian Noyer  said in a
press briefing in Tokyo today. While Ireland is coping with the
legacy of a burst property-market bubble and Greece with the
consequences of mismanaging its debt, Spain is in “good hands”
and has already addressed issues with its smaller banks, he said.  Noyer’s remarks confront a widening sell-off in euro-region
government bonds since the bailout of Greece earlier this year,
with yields on so-called euro-region periphery nations surging
to the highest since the 1991 introduction of the euro. The
currency is heading for its biggest monthly slide against the
dollar since May on concern the debt crisis will spread.  “Non-standard measures will be kept as long as necessary”
at the European Central Bank, Noyer, a member of the ECB’s
governing council, also said. The bank in May agreed to prolong
emergency lending to banks and purchase government bonds
outright for the first time.  The ECB bought Portuguese government bonds on Nov. 26,
according to four people with knowledge of the transactions,
amid speculation that nation will come under pressure to tap the
European rescue fund.  Janet Henry , chief European economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in London, said officials are likely to give
more help to banks in Spain and Portugal, and could ultimately
extend its bond-purchase program to Spanish securities.  Noyer on Spain  Spain’s problems aren’t of the same magnitude as Ireland’s,
Noyer said today. “In Portugal, the situation is improving as
planned. The Portuguese government has confirmed its commitment
to ensure a reduction of the public deficit to 4.6 percent in
2011,” he said, referring to the ratio of gross domestic product.  Overall, the public finances of Europe are in better shape
than in many countries, including the U.S., the central banker
said in remarks earlier at a conference in the Japanese capital.  Europe’s economic recovery is “well on track” and the
region isn’t facing a crisis of confidence in its currency, he
said. The euro is a “tremendous success” and has helped the
ECB deliver  price  stability, he said. Questions on the future of
the euro are “totally” off the table, he also said today.  European finance chiefs ended crisis talks in Brussels
yesterday with an 85 billion-euro ($112 billion) aid package for
Ireland. Meantime, Greece was given an extra four-and-a-half
years to repay emergency loans totaling 110 billion euros to
match the seven-year term under Ireland’s deal.  Honor Debts  Europe has addressed challenges “very seriously,” and
Ireland has started taking extremely tough measures, Noyer said.  “The package is very well-tailored and will restore
competitiveness in Ireland,” he said. “It will be a major
objective for all members of the European Union to do everything
necessary to be in a position to fully honor their debt in the
future.”  The finance chiefs yesterday endorsed a Franco-German
compromise on post-2013 rescues that means investors won’t
automatically take losses to share the cost with taxpayers as
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  initially proposed.  In his speech, the French central bank chief called for an
international effort to address volatility in financial flows,
saying a patchwork of individual efforts to set capital controls
risks displacing pressures without defusing them.  Volatility is increasing in currencies and commodities, and
market shifts can exacerbate economic shocks, he said.  Capital Controls  Noyer’s proposal underscores the danger of a surge in
capital flows to emerging markets that policy makers are
concerned will spark asset bubbles. Nations have adopted
disparate steps to manage the risk, with South Korea embracing a
tax on foreigners’ investments in its bonds and Indonesia
favoring a lock-up period for overseas purchases of bills.  While one country can have an impact on an influx of
overseas capital through introducing controls, the risk is that
the money then flows elsewhere, putting pressure on other asset
markets, Noyer said. He said that global capital markets are
closely interlinked, and that some volatility may be induced by
policy makers.  “In advanced economies, monetary easing, together with
inhibitions on credit growth, creates a potential for future
financial imbalances,” Noyer said, without specifying whether
the Federal Reserve’s plan to purchase $600 billion of Treasury
securities is one source of volatility.  Bubble Concern  Officials from nations ranging from Brazil to China have
said the Fed’s attempt to boost U.S. growth risks sparking flows
of capital to emerging markets that create asset bubbles. Noyer
said it’s not good for nations to challenge each others’
monetary policies.  While the Group of 20 has begun a campaign to construct
global financial safety nets, there is doubt about the
consistency of the policy strategies of some of the world’s
largest economies, Noyer said. He said that countries should
disconnect the accumulation of record foreign-exchange reserves
from managing exchange rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  