-- Nuns Go Nuts, Antonioni Paints Trees for Color Classics: Review
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2010-11-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/nuns-go-nuts-antonioni-paints-trees-for-color-classics-review.html
Almost every modern film is shot in
color, but not all are conceived in color. Two eye-popping DVD
releases from Criterion, “ Black Narcissus ” and “ Red Desert ,
demonstrate the difference.  “Black Narcissus” (1947), which won the Oscar for its
cinematographer  Jack Cardiff , is justly famous for its fervid
painterliness. It’s equally renowned for its storyline, adapted
from a Rumer Godden novel, about a group of repressed nuns (led
by  Deborah Kerr ’s purse-lipped Sister Codagh) who go a bit batty
establishing a convent high in the Himalayas. You can cut the
sexual/spiritual tension with a knife -- in this case, a palette
knife.  It’s possible to regard “Black Narcissus” as high-
fructose kitsch and still marvel at how it dazzles the eye.
Cardiff, who also shot “ A Matter of Life of Death ” (1946) and
“ The Red Shoes ” (1948) for co-directors Emeric Pressburger and
Michael Powell, was perhaps the greatest of all Technicolor
artists. He shot many other movies, including  John Huston ’s
“ The African Queen ,” but the style he developed with Powell
and Pressburger is resplendent.  At his most flagrant, which is most of the time, Cardiff
appears to be mixing his jujube colorations with squid ink. Nuns
are perched like sentinels in the shadows; they look down from
great heights into the dark valleys below. (Astonishingly,
practically the entire film was shot on studio sets.)  Flaming Screen  The colors are tactile and yet always keyed to the
characters’ heightened emotions. In one celebrated scene, nutty
Sister Ruth (Kathleen Byron) is rebuffed by the resident
Himalayan hunk (David Farrar). She stares at him and then, from
her point of view, the screen flames to crimson.  The mini-documentary “Painting With Light,” a DVD extra
about Cardiff,  makes clear that he was a student of the great
artists from his earliest days as a second-unit cameraman.
“Black Narcissus” is flooded with imagery that calls up
Caravaggio and Rembrandt and especially Vermeer. And yet the
compositions are always dynamic, never static.  Michelangelo Antonioni and his cinematographer Carlo Di
Palma didn’t merely create painterly images in “Red Desert”
(1964). They actually took a paintbrush to the natural
environment, to the trees and lawns, in an effort to heighten
the mood. This was Antonioni’s first color film, and he wasn’t
leaving anything to chance.  Starring Monica Vitti as Giuliana, the neurasthenic wife of
an electronics engineer, “Red Desert” is perhaps the purest
expression of Antonioni’s modernist alienation.  Alluring Color  I’ve never been altogether convinced that this film’s
sweet agony of anomie isn’t simply high-tone twaddle. But from a
visual standpoint, “Red Desert” is undoubtedly one of the most
alluring color films ever made.  Unlike “Black Narcissus,” the color schemes are arrived
at without ostentation. In the barren modern industrial world of
“Red Desert,” the colors of plastic and metal are just as
plangent as anything that grows from the soil.  The visual references to great paintings are even more
voluminous than in “Black Narcissus.” Antonioni seems to take
in everything -- not only the Old Masters but the Impressionists
and Mondrian and  Edward Hopper  and everyone in between. It’s as
if he was summoning up the entire history of Western art for us.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
 Peter Rainer  at  Fi1L2E@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 