-- Obama Proposes Federal Worker Pay Freeze in Effort to Help Rein in Deficit
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-30T05:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/obama-will-propose-two-year-pay-freeze-for-federal-workers-to-cut-deficit.html
President  Barack Obama  yesterday
proposed freezing the pay of about 2 million federal workers
this fiscal year and next as a step toward reining in the U.S.
budget deficit.  The freeze, which requires congressional approval, would
save more than $5 billion over the next two fiscal years ending
Sept. 30, 2012. The administration has forecast the  deficit  will
total $2.3 trillion over that time.  “Getting this deficit under control is going to require
broad sacrifice,” Obama said in Washington. “And that
sacrifice must be shared by the employees of the federal
government.”  Obama made the announcement on the eve of his meeting today
with congressional leaders about his legislative agenda and two
days before a commission he created to offer deficit-cutting
recommendations is scheduled to deliver its final report. The
panel’s chairmen have  proposed  a three-year freeze on federal
salaries and a 10 percent cut in the government workforce.  “A federal pay freeze was inevitable given the politics of
the deficit and the limited pay increases that private sector
workers are receiving,” said  Stan Collender , a former
congressional budget aide who’s now managing director of Qorvis
Communications in Washington. “Anyone who thinks federal
workers will be the only ones to feel the impact of deficit
reductions is seriously misreading the budget tea leaves.”  Republican Support  Republican lawmakers have indicated that would back holding
the line on federal salaries. Representative  John Boehner  of
Ohio, who is poised to be the House speaker in January when
Republicans take control of the chamber, called for the
government to freeze hiring and pay last month.  “Without a hiring freeze, a pay freeze won’t do much to
rein in a federal bureaucracy that added hundreds of thousands
of employees to its payroll over the last two years while the
private sector shed millions of jobs,” Boehner said in a
statement yesterday.  The freeze would hit all civilian workers in the
government, including those at the Department of Defense.
Military personnel wouldn’t be affected. The move would save
about $2 billion for the rest of fiscal 2011, which ends Sept.
30, with cumulative savings of about $60 billion over the next
decade, according to a White House fact sheet.  The government is projected to spend $457 billion on
personnel costs in the 2011 fiscal year, according to the
 Congressional Research Service . That’s up from $447 billion
spent in 2010.  Federal Salaries  Federal civil service pay rose 2 percent in 2010 after
rising 3.9 percent in 2009 and by 3.5 percent in 2008, the
research service said. The average annual salary for full-time
federal workers in occupational categories ranging from nursing
assistant to economist to attorney was $74,403 in 2009,
according to  data  compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  The head of the government’s largest employee’s union,
which represents 600,000 federal workers, denounced Obama’s
proposal.  “A federal pay freeze saves peanuts at best,”  John Gage ,
president of the  American Federation of Government Employees ,
said in a statement. “The American people didn’t vote to stick
it to a Veterans Administration nursing assistant making $28,000
a year or a border patrol agent earning $34,000 per year.”  Jeffrey Zients , deputy director of the Office of Management
and Budget, said asking the federal workforce to forego pay
raises was “a difficult decision”  ‘More With Less’  “It’s the first of many difficult steps” to be taken by
the administration “to cut costs and do more with less,” he
said on a conference call.  Deficit reduction will dominate budget negotiations over
the next two years. Republicans won control of the House in the
Nov. 2 elections and narrowed the Democratic majority in the
Senate in part by campaigning on a pledge to reduce the size of
government and cut the budget.  Obama previously proposed postponing raises for senior
government officials in his budget for fiscal year 2011, which
began Oct. 1. He’s also suspended bonuses, cash awards and other
discretionary compensation for political appointees through the
end of this fiscal year.  The administration already has ordered a three-year freeze
in non-defense and national security programs in Obama’s budget
released Feb. 1, and ordered some agencies to reduce their 2012
budget requests by 5 percent.  The deficit commission co-chairmen, former Republican
Senator  Alan Simpson  of Wyoming and former Clinton
administration chief of staff  Erskine Bowles , earlier this month
proposed a $3.8 trillion  deficit -cutting plan that would trim
Social Security and Medicare, reduce income-tax rates and
eliminate tax breaks including the mortgage-interest deduction.  Their plan also would raise the gas tax, slash defense
spending and farm subsidies and bring down health-care costs by
clamping down on medical malpractice suits. The Social Security
retirement age would rise to 68 in about 2050 and 69 in about
2075.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  