-- Obama Will Seek `New' Relationship With Republicans Amid Tax, Arms Impasse
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-11-29T18:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/obama-will-seek-new-relationship-with-republicans-amid-tax-arms-impasse.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’ll
use tomorrow’s White House meeting with congressional leaders to
press lawmakers to act on an arms treaty with Russia and tax
cuts that are scheduled to expire at the end of the year.  The session should be a “first step toward a new and
productive working relationship” with Republicans in Congress
“because we now have a shared responsibility to deliver for the
American people,” Obama said.  Obama said one of the top items on his agenda is
ratification of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty by the
Senate before the end of the year. The accord is “essential”
to U.S. security, he said.  The bipartisan meeting will be the first since the Nov. 2
elections, in which Republicans won a majority of seats in the
House starting in January and narrowed the Democratic advantage
in the Senate. Along with the START ratification, taxes and
budget will be major items on the agenda.  Obama made his comments during an announcement that he is
proposing to freeze the pay of all federal civilian employees
for 2011 and 2012. Military personnel wouldn’t be affected by
the plan, which is subject to congressional approval.  The administration says the freeze would save about $2
billion for the rest of fiscal 2011 and more than $60 billion
over the next decade. The government recorded a  budget deficit 
of $1.3 trillion in fiscal 2010, which ended Sept. 30 -- the
second biggest shortfall since the $1.4 trillion deficit in
fiscal 2009.  Taxes and START  While Republicans have called for a freeze on federal
employee pay, Obama is likely to find less agreement on taxes
and the arms treaty.  Obama and many Democrats want to retain tax cuts passed in
2001 and 2003 for individuals earning no more than $200,000
annually and married couples with a maximum yearly income of
$250,000. Obama has repeatedly said that the U.S. can’t afford
to permanently extend the lower tax rates for those with incomes
above those figures -- about 3 percent of taxpayers.  The tax cuts are set to expire at the end of the year.  Republicans want tax cuts extended permanently for all
income levels, saying that raising taxes during a fragile
economy is a bad idea.  “We don’t believe taxes should be increased on anyone,”
Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican, said yesterday on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” program.  Obama’s drive to win ratification of the treaty he signed
with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  was dealt a blow earlier
this month when Kyl, the second-ranking Republican in the
Senate, said a vote should be postponed until next year because
there’s too much other business on the calendar before Congress
adjourns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  