-- Old Mutual Says It May Delay Plans for IPO of U.S. Asset Management Unit
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-29T15:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/old-mutual-says-it-may-delay-plans-for-ipo-of-u-s-asset-management-unit.html
Old Mutual Plc , the U.K.’s third-
largest insurer by market value, may delay the initial public
offering of its U.S. asset-management unit amid fluctuating
markets.  The insurer may list the unit’s shares in New York by 2012,
spokesman  Patrick Bowes  said in an interview in Johannesburg
today. The London and Johannesburg-based insurer had planned to
complete the IPO in the middle of 2011, Chief Executive Officer
 Julian Roberts  said in August.  “It may be later than some would have expected,” Bowes
said. “We’re trying to price for earnings progression,” he
said, adding that it’s difficult to predict the unit’s profit
performance amid volatile markets.  Global stocks have dropped for three straight weeks,
pushing the  MSCI World Index  down 4.2 percent since Nov. 5, on
concern the European sovereign-debt crisis that pushed Greece
and Ireland to seek help is spreading. Seven companies pulled or
postponed IPOs worth as much as $1.7 billion in U.S. this month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Roberts is reversing his predecessor  Jim Sutcliffe ’s U.S.
expansion that boosted debt just as the credit crisis hit.
Guarantees offered to life policyholders and writedowns on
investments including Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. led
Sutcliffe to step down in September 2008.  U.S. Life, HSBC  The company sold its U.S. Life business in August to
Harbinger Capital Partners for $350 million. It also planned to
sell its stake in its South African banking unit,  Nedbank Group
Ltd. , to HSBC Holdings Plc. HSBC abandoned the purchase on Oct.
15. Bowes said the insurer is still reviewing its options for
the stake. The company has paid down 80 million pounds of debt
this year and plans to reduce debt by 1.5 billion pounds by
2012, Bowes said.  The U.S. asset-management unit oversaw about $243 billion
as of June this year. The unit had operating profit of about
40 million pounds in the first half, about 7 percent of Old
Mutual’s total operating profit.  The insurer said in March it would sell shares in the unit
in the U.S. in 2012. That date was brought forward to mid-2011
by Roberts in August.  Old Mutual dropped 45 cents, or 3.2 percent, to 13.70 rand
in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  