-- Holder Says U.S. Is Conducting `Very Serious' Investigation of Wall Street
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-11-29T20:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/holder-says-u-s-is-conducting-very-serious-investigation-of-wall-street.html
U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder 
confirmed today that the Justice Department is conducting a
criminal investigation related to trading on Wall Street.  In response to questions about the probe of insider
trading, Holder said an “investigation is ongoing” and
described it as “very serious.” Holder was questioned at a
news conference at the Justice Department in Washington.  “I don’t want to get into the details,” he said. The
investigation is being conducted by the U.S. attorney’s office
in New York, he said.  The FBI searched the offices of three hedge funds in New
York, Connecticut and Massachusetts last week as the
investigation became public.  As part of the investigation,  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP received a government subpoena for documents.
Federal Bureau of Investigation agents on Nov. 22 searched the
offices of Level Global Investors LP and Diamondback Capital
Management LLC. Both firms were founded by former employees of
Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC.  A third hedge fund, Boston-based Loch Capital Management,
was searched the same day.  “Rampant” Insider Trading  Wellington Management Co., the Boston-based money manager
that oversees $598 billion, said last week the U.S. has asked
for documents. Denver-based  Janus Capital Group Inc.  said last
week they’d been asked for general information, without
identifying the agency that made the request.  U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  in Manhattan has been leading a
crackdown on what he said in a speech this month was “rampant”
insider trading on Wall Street and is devoting “significant
resources” to the investigations.  Insider trading prosecutions require the government to
prove that people bought or sold securities using material, non-
public information with the intent to defraud.  Bharara’s office is prosecuting two alleged overlapping
insider trading rings centered on  Raj Rajaratnam ’s Galleon Group
hedge fund. So far 14 have pleaded not guilty in that case. In
that case, the government used wiretaps to gather information in
what prosecutors have characterized as the biggest probe of
insider trading at hedge funds.  Cooperating Witness  In that probe, former SAC employee  Richard Choo-Beng Lee ,
who later founded Spherix Capital LLC, pleaded guilty to
criminal charges and is cooperating with prosecutors.  In an unrelated trial this month, Brooklyn rabbi Milton
Balkany was convicted of trying to extort $4 million from SAC,
by claiming he could prevent a federal prisoner from telling
U.S. authorities about alleged insider trading at the firm.  According to court records, Balkany told an investigator
with Bharara’s office, in a conversation secretly recorded by
prosecutors, that SAC had inside tips about medical device
makers Cyberonics Inc. and Respironics Inc. and Myriad Genetics
Inc., which makes molecular diagnostic products.  An SAC lawyer alerted prosecutors to the extortion attempt,
and a prosecutor said during the trial that Balkany “lied” and
that there was no evidence of illegal trades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sara Forden  in Washington 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  