-- Tombini Wins Vote of Confidence as Long-Term Yields Plunge: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-11-29T11:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/tombini-wins-vote-of-confidence-as-long-term-yields-plunge-brazil-credit.html
Alexandre Tombini , Brazilian
President-elect  Dilma Rousseff ’s pick to head the central bank,
will raise interest rates enough in his first weeks on the job
to curb inflation, trading in futures contracts shows.  The yield on interest-rate futures due 2014 sank 22 basis
points while those on the 2012 contract jumped 25 since Nov. 22,
shrinking the gap the most since March 2006.  Investors are betting Tombini, who helped devise Brazil’s
inflation-targeting regime in 1999 and served on the central
bank’s board for the past five years, will slow  consumer price 
increases that in October reached a five-month high of 5.2
percent. The rate is double Canada’s and compares with 1.2
percent in the U.S. Tombini, who will replace  Henrique Meirelles , said on Nov. 25 that he will have autonomy to decide
interest rates and bring inflation down to the central bank’s
target.  “Tombini is the architect of Brazil’s inflation-targeting
regime,”  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “He knows all
these things and there will be no learning curve for him.
Inflation is accelerating. There’s not much room to wait.”  Ramos predicts Tombini, 46, will start raising the
benchmark rate, known as  Selic , in January from 10.75 percent at
a pace of 50 basis points for five consecutive meetings.  Yields on rate futures suggest traders expect policy makers
will begin boosting the Selic as soon as the conclusion of the
next meeting on Dec. 8 and bring it to about 12.5 percent by the
end of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Target  The central bank targets annual inflation of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  Economists raised their 12-month  forecast  for consumer
prices to 5.2 percent last week, up from 4.4 percent at the
beginning of the year, according to a central bank survey
published Nov. 22. Inflation is quickening after President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva increased spending 27 percent in the first
nine months of the year and food prices rose last month.  “A way to establish credibility in a moment where
inflation is moving up is when you are the president of the
institution to start hiking,”  Marcelo Salomon , chief Brazil
economist for Barclays Plc in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  The yield difference between the interest-rate futures due
in 2012 and 2014 narrowed 47 basis points to 14 basis points
from a seven-month high of 61 basis points on Nov. 22. In
Mexico, the yield gap between one-year and three-year interest-
rate swaps widened 13 basis points during the same period after
the country’s central bank said economic growth is approaching
its potential.  Inflation Forecasting  Rousseff, who kept Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  at his
post, appointed Tombini as central bank president on Nov. 24,
saying she will continue her predecessor’s economic policies.
Tombini, who has a doctorate in economics from the University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, was in charge of economic and
inflation forecasting when he served as the head of the research
department of the central bank in 1999 and 2001, according to 
the bank’s website .  Yields on longer-term rate futures contracts also fell last
week as  Mantega  told reporters on Nov. 24 that Rousseff will cut
spending to help the central bank fight inflation.  A spending cut that is equivalent to 1 percent of gross
domestic product would slow inflation by 0.32 percentage point,
according to the median estimate of economists in a central bank
survey published on Nov. 8.  The Finance Ministry didn’t respond to Bloomberg’s
questions sent by e-mail.  ‘Less Hawkish’  Some investors are concerned the central bank’s
independence may be compromised under Rousseff, according to RBC
Capital Markets.  There’s speculation “the political influence over the
central bank might deepen once Meirelles is gone and that
Tombini might be less hawkish, not a dove, but less hawkish,”
 Paul Biszko , an emerging-markets strategist at RBC in Toronto,
said in telephone interview.  Tombini told reporters on Nov. 24 that Rousseff promised
him she will preserve the central bank’s “full” operational
autonomy.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps increased 5 basis
points on Nov. 26 to 117, according to data compiled by CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Meirelles  The real declined 0.1 percent to 1.7290 per dollar today at
6:31 a.m. New York time.  Meirelles, who will remain at his post until year-end,
raised the benchmark interest rate in Lula’s first month in
office in 2003, when annual inflation reached as high as 17
percent. Under Meirelles’ watch, inflation has declined by one-
third, helping Latin America’s biggest economy triple and lift
21 million people out of poverty.  Meirelles praised Tombini, who’s from Porto Alegre, Rio
Grande do Sul, a state in southern Brazil whose residents are
called gauchos.  “Those who think Tombini has a mild personality are
wrong,” Meirelles told an audience of finance executives in
Vitoria, Brazil, on Nov. 26. “He’s a tough gaucho.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  