-- Londoners Endure Travel Misery as One-Day Subway Strike Disrupts Services
-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-11-29T09:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/londoners-face-travel-chaos-as-subway-strike-begins-amid-forecast-snowfall.html
London’s 3.5 million subway
commuters struggled to get into work today as London Underground
workers stage a strike over plans to cut 800 jobs.  The 24-hour walkout, the last of four scheduled to protest
against the reductions, began at 6:30 p.m. yesterday, Transport
for London said. The organization had limited services and
delays today on most lines across the network, known as the
Tube.  The city is “locked down across the board,” with 114
stations closed, Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers’ Union
General Secretary  Bob Crow  said in an e-mailed statement.  TfL said this morning about 40 percent of trains are
running, more than at the same stage in the last strike. The
Northern line was operating across its full length, and the
Circle line was shut since most stations are covered by other
lines, TfL said. The Victoria, Jubilee, Bakerloo, District,
Metropolitan, Piccadilly, Central, and Hammersmith & City lines
are operating a partial service.  The stoppage, the seventh to shut the Tube since 2002,
involves around 10,000 employees. More than 100 extra buses and
capacity for more than 10,000 extra river crossings have been
organized,  TfL  spokesman Ben Pennington said by phone.  TfL said it carried half of its normal passenger levels
during the last strike.  The action is likely to cost the economy at least 48
million pounds ($75 million),  London Chamber of Commerce and
Industry  spokesman Andrew Horne said last week.  ‘Icy Conditions’  The timing of the strike “is terrible, with icy conditions
taking hold and the possibility of snow,” LCCI Chief Executive
 Colin Stanbridge  said in an e-mailed statement.  Temperatures in London are predicted to dip as low as minus
1 degree Celsius (30 degrees Fahrenheit) today, according to
Global Weather Platform.  TfL condemned the RMT and  Transport Salaried Staffs’
Association  for refusing to continue what it said were
constructive talks, according to an e-mailed statement.  The strike action “is about safety,”  Crow  said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “We will be taking that message to
passengers as we build the campaign against the tube cuts.”  Mike Brown, managing director of London Underground and
London rail, today called for union members to “immediately
call off their totally unnecessary strike.  ‘‘We will talk to them right now on any genuine safety
issues they have,’’ he said in an e-mailed statement. ‘‘We want
an end to this dispute and believe that a resolution will be
only achieved through talks, not by further threats to disrupt
London.’’  Editors: Peter Branton, Andrew Clapham  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Altaner  in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net 
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  