-- Hong Kong Sees Inflation From Rising Yuan, Expects More Gains Next Year
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-29T04:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/hong-kong-sees-inflation-from-rising-yuan-expects-more-gains-next-year.html
Hong Kong will face higher inflation
next year as it attracts more capital because of U.S. monetary-
easing policies, and the appreciating Chinese yuan increases
food costs, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said.  The U.S. measures may also boost energy prices, and the
city’s government is “closely monitoring” the impact on low-
income residents, Tsang told lawmakers in Hong Kong today. Hong
Kong, which pegs its currency to the U.S. dollar, imports most
of its fresh food from China.  Hong Kong policy makers have said the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s plan to buy $600 billion of Treasury securities will
contribute to an asset bubble risk in the city because of excess
liquidity. The city this month imposed additional property sales
taxes and tightened mortgages to rein in surging home prices.  “Rising inflation has become a prevalent phenomenon in
Asian economies,” Tsang said. “Our rents and wages are
increasing along with the improving economy. The upward pressure
on prices will become more significant next year.”  Hong Kong this month boosted its 2010 inflation estimate to
2.5 percent from an August forecast of 2.3 percent. Economic
growth, which reached a 6.8 percent annual pace in the third
quarter, has contributed to price pressures, the government said.  The International Monetary Fund said Nov. 18 that higher
rents will probably push up the city’s inflation rate to about 5
percent by the end of 2011.  Consumer prices  gained 2.6 percent
in October from a year earlier, the government said.  Further Measures  Tsang reiterated today that the government may introduce
more property measures if needed and it won’t ignore the
possibilities of price bubble, which would hurt the economy
“seriously” if it burst. Ample liquidity has encouraged
speculation in the market, he said.  A change to the dollar peg may attract more capital inflows,
which may hurt the economy, Tsang said when answering questions
from lawmakers. The government doesn’t see a need to change the
current fixed exchange-rate system, he said.  Hong Kong’s consumer-price growth may climb 0.5 percent if
the yuan appreciates 10 percent against the dollar, Tsang said,
citing the result from a stress test by the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  