-- Holiday Web Sales Growth May Climb Most Since 2007
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-11-29T22:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/online-holiday-sales-growth-poised-to-reach-pre-recession-level.html
U.S. online sales this holiday
season are poised to climb the most since 2007 as retailers
entice consumers with free shipping and half-off deals.  E-commerce sales in November and December will rise 11
percent to $32.4 billion, researcher ComScore Inc. said last
week, an increase from its previous forecast for as much as 9
percent growth. Online sales today, known as  Cyber Monday 
because consumers increasingly log on to shop the day after the
Thanksgiving weekend, may top $1 billion for the first time,
said  Shawn Milne , a Janney Montgomery Scott LLC analyst.  Consumers are beginning to loosen their purse strings as
the economy recovers from the recession and adds jobs, U.S.
Commerce Department figures showed last week. Online stores may
also benefit as shoppers become increasingly comfortable buying
over the Web. E-commerce companies will account for 7 percent of
total retail sales this year, up from 6 percent last year,
Forrester Research Inc. estimated.  “The beginning of the online holiday shopping season has
gotten off to an extremely positive start, outperforming our
earlier expectations,” ComScore Chairman  Gian Fulgoni  said in a
statement. “While this early spending surge reflects, in part,
heavy promotional activity on the part of retailers occurring
earlier this season, it is nevertheless a very encouraging
sign.”  An early indication of holiday sales over the Internet came
Nov. 26, the day after Thanksgiving, when online sales tallied
$648 million, a 9 percent increase from the corresponding day a
year earlier, ComScore said yesterday.  ‘Pronounced Shift’  The  National Retail Federation  coined the term Cyber Monday
in 2005. Almost nine in 10 retailers have special promotions
planned for Cyber Monday, according to  Shop.org , a division of
the Washington-based trade group.  “The pronounced shift to e-commerce is going to be even
more this holiday,” said  Siva Kumar , chief executive officer of
 TheFind.com , a shopping search engine that competes with Google
Inc.  PayPal, which says it processes about 16 percent of online
payments in the U.S., reported a 21 percent increase in payment
volume through its service as of 2 p.m. New York time today,
compared with the same time period last year. ComScore plans to
release Cyber Monday results tomorrow.  The holiday shopping period that begins after Thanksgiving
is closely watched by investors because online sales each day
become the equivalent of a week’s worth during the non-holiday
period, according to Milne at Janney Montgomery Scott.  Free Shipping Offers  Retailers count on November and December for about 20
percent of their annual profit.  During the  2007 holiday season , Internet sales grew 19
percent to $29.2 billion, according to Reston, Virginia-based
ComScore. They declined the following November and December amid
the U.S. recession before growing 4 percent to $29.1 billion in
2009.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the largest retailer, introduced free
shipping for the holiday season on about 60,000 Walmart.com
items. Amazon.com Inc., the biggest online retailer, matched the
offer. Daily deals from sites such as Groupon.com may also help
boost sales.  This competitive behavior by retailers may help sales today
rise 15 percent to 20 percent, compared with 5 percent growth
last year, according to Milne at Janney Montgomery Scott.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  