-- More Than 2 Inches of Rain to Soak New York, Northeastern Region Tomorrow
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-11-29T21:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/more-than-2-inches-of-rain-to-soak-new-york-northeastern-region-tomorrow.html
Heavy rain will sweep into the U.S.
Northeast starting late tomorrow, soaking the New York City
area, as a storm threatens flooding as far south as Georgia,
forecasters said.  The  National Weather Service  issued a flash flood watch for
Washington and Baltimore, where as much as 3 inches (7.6
centimeters) of rain may fall.  As much as 2.5 inches is forecast for the area just north
and west of New York City, said John Murray, a  National Weather
Service  meteorologist in Upton.  “The storm total amounts we have may change,” Murray
said. “Most of the rain will be over the lower Hudson Valley
through northeast New Jersey and into southwest Connecticut.”  Flood watches extend from New York’s border with Canada to
Georgia, according to the weather service, meaning streams,
rivers and areas with poor drainage may become inundated.  High-wind warnings and wind advisories reach across much of
the same area. Winds of 40 mph (64 kph) with gusts of 60 mph are
possible starting tonight in the Appalachian Mountains of
Tennessee and tomorrow in western New York.  The storm may be accompanied by thunderstorms, especially
in the South, and may be enough to cause some flight delays,
said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with commercial forecaster
 AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania.  Strong Front  “We got a pretty strong cold front out in the middle of
the country right now,” Kines said. “It won’t just be the East
that is getting rocked by it.”  The temperature in New York is forecast to be 56 degrees
Fahrenheit (13 Celsius) tomorrow and 58 degrees the day after,
according to the weather service. Later this week, temperatures
will drop to the mid-40s with lows in the 30s possible at night.  The normal high temperature in Central Park for this time
of year is about 48, with a low of 37, according to the weather
service.  The heating  degree days  value in New York for November is
467, or 14 below normal, weather service records show.  Heating degree days, calculated by subtracting the daily
average temperature from a base of 65 degrees, is designed to
show energy demand, according to the weather service. The larger
the value, the cooler the weather, and thus the more energy is
probably being used to heat homes and businesses.  Other Cities  In Chicago, the value is 646 or 51 below normal; in St.
Louis, 432 or 101 below normal; and in Boston 550 or 4 below
normal, according to the weather service.  Natural gas for January delivery dropped 19 cents, or 4.3
percent, settle at to $4.210 per million British thermal units
on the New York Mercantile Exchange after reaching $4.487, the
highest intraday price since Aug. 9.  Snow and cold continue to grip the Pacific Northwest and
upper Midwest, where winter storm warnings and advisories
stretch from Wisconsin to Montana and cover northern Idaho,
Oregon and most of Washington, according to the weather service.  Kines said there is a chance the eastern U.S. may start
seeing some of its first really cold weather next week. The
long-range forecasts suggest December will be cold and stormy,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  