-- Morgan Stanley’s Mary Meeker Joins Kleiner Perkins
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2010-11-29T15:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/morgan-stanley-s-queen-of-net-meeker-joins-kleiner-perkins-as-a-partner.html
Mary Meeker , the Morgan Stanley
technology analyst who gained renown for predictions on Internet
growth in the 1990s, is leaving the bank to join venture capital
firm  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers  as a partner.  Meeker, 51, will be based in California’s Silicon Valley
and will travel frequently to New York and Asia, Kleiner Perkins
said in a statement today. Meeker, who covered Google Inc., EBay
Inc., and Yahoo! Inc., led the global technology research team
at Morgan Stanley, where she worked since 1991.  Called “Queen of the Net” by Barron’s in 1998, Meeker
made her name with a publication entitled “The Internet
Report” in 1995 and her bullish calls on Web companies,
including Amazon.com Inc. and America Online Inc. Earlier this
month,  Meeker  predicted a $50 billion online advertising boom in
an address at the annual  Web 2.0 Summit  in San Francisco.  “We’re at the beginning of another great wave of tech
innovation and I am incredibly excited by the opportunity to
help the next generation of Internet technologies and leaders,”
Meeker said in the statement.  Mobile commerce may gain market share faster than
traditional online retailing, Meeker said at the conference
earlier this month. Last year, she published “ Mobile Internet
Report ,” a 424-page report that was the culmination of four
years of research.  ‘Do More Mobile’  Bing Gordon , a  partner  at Kleiner Perkins, said earlier
this month that Meeker’s research helped persuade his firm to
“do more mobile, bigger and faster.” In March, Kleiner Perkins
said it will double its iFund, an investment pool backing
startups that create applications for Apple Inc.’s handheld
devices, to $200 million.  “Mary was an early supporter of some of the biggest
technology investment winners of the past 20 years,” Kleiner
Perkins partner  John Doerr  said in the statement. “Her advice
and support are already highly sought after by entrepreneurs and
in this new role, she will be able to spend even more time
providing more direct assistance.”  Scott Devitt , who worked with Meeker since joining Morgan
Stanley in 2009, will assume sole coverage of the U.S. Internet
sector, Morgan Stanley said in an internal memo obtained by
Bloomberg and confirmed by spokeswoman  Sandra Hernandez .  Meeker’s star dimmed after the dot-com bust in 2000. The
 Nasdaq  lost 78 percent of its value in less than three years. In
2001, Fortune published a story titled, “ Where Mary Meeker Went
Wrong .” In 2003, after the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission accused Morgan Stanley and other financial services
firms of skewed analysis, the companies settled for $1.4
billion. The SEC didn’t accuse Meeker of wrongdoing.  She has regained the attention of many investors with her
outlook for mobile technology. Smartphone shipments will exceed
those of personal computers in 2012, she has said.  Meeker, an Indiana native who graduated from  DePauw
University  and earned an MBA from  Cornell University , says she
draws on personal experience, as well as data analysis and
company research, to form her views.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Olga Kharif  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  