-- Mortgage Approvals in the U.K. Decline to Eight-Month Low on Spending Cuts
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-11-29T10:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/mortgage-approvals-in-the-u-k-decline-to-eight-month-low-on-spending-cuts.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  fell to an
eight-month low in October, a sign the slowdown in the property
market is intensifying.  Lenders granted 47,185 loans to buy homes, compared with
47,369 in September, the Bank of England said today in London.
Economists forecast 47,000, according to the median of 17
predictions in a Bloomberg News survey. A Building Societies
Association report today said mortgage approvals fell 8 percent
last month to 1.8 billion pounds ($2.8 billion) from September.  The housing-market recovery is faltering as the
government’s plans for the biggest spending squeeze since World
War II undermine demand. London-based property researcher
Hometrack Ltd. said today the number of new buyers registering
with estate agents fell 4.3 percent on the month, the biggest
drop since the depths of Britain’s recession in January 2009.  “The housing market has been turning for a few months as
consumers remain very cautious in the face of the looming
fiscal retrenchment,”  Hetal Mehta , an economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets Europe in London and a former U.K. Treasury
official, said in a note to investors. “It is clear that banks
remain highly cautious in their lending.”  The pound was little changed after the release and traded
at $1.5597 as of 10:24 a.m. in London. The yield on the
benchmark two-year government bond was down 1 basis point today
at 0.997 percent.  Mortgage approvals remain at half their level at the start
of 2007. Net mortgage lending was 963 million pounds in October,
compared with 174 million pounds the previous month, the Bank of
England said. Gross home loans amounted to 11 billion pounds,
the least in six months.  BSA View  “Lending activity across the market has shown signs of
weakening in recent months,”  Adrian Coles , director general of
the BSA, said in an e-mailed statement. “Reports of falling
house prices and government spending cuts have lowered consumer
confidence, which has put further downward pressure on demand
for mortgages.”  House prices in England and Wales dropped 0.8 percent in
November from the previous month, Hometrack said. The group
surveyed 5,100 real-estate agents and surveyors.  “Concerns over the economic outlook on the back of recent
spending cuts, together with widespread expectations that house
prices are set for a period of retrenchment, are driving the
continued weakness in demand,”  Richard Donnell , director of
research at Hometrack, said in an e-mailed statement. The group
forecast prices will decline 2 percent in 2011.  Consumer Debt  Still, the volume of U.K. property listings fell 0.4
percent this month, and tighter supply of housing available for
sale may help to support the market next year, Hometrack said.  Today’s Bank of England figures showed consumers added to
their unsecured debts in October. Lending rose by 287 million
pounds as higher credit-card borrowing offset a decline in other
unsecured lending. Outstanding household debts now total 1.45
trillion pounds, the least since June 2008.  Bank of England policy makers split three ways on the need
for further stimulus in the economy for a second month at their
November meeting.  Adam Posen  maintained a call to increase the
200 billion-pound bond-purchase plan by 50 billion pounds, while
 Andrew Sentance  continued a push to raise the key rate from 0.5
percent to contain inflation.  A measure of M4 money-supply growth that the central bank
uses to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases rose 2.9
percent in the three months through October on an annualized
basis, the most since May. The gauge excludes financial
companies that specialize in intermediating between banks, such
as holding companies and non-bank credit grantors.  M4, the broadest measure of money supply, rose 0.7 percent
on the month and was down 0.7 percent on the year, the biggest
drop since records began in 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  