-- Moscow Luxury-Home Rents to Climb Next Year as Wealth Spreads to Russians
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2010-11-29T09:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/moscow-luxury-home-rents-to-climb-next-year-as-wealth-spreads-to-russians.html
Moscow luxury-home rents will rise
about 15 percent next year as the expanding economy and a
government plan to attract foreign technology companies fuels
demand,  Penny Lane Realty  said.  The average monthly rent for high-end apartment is
currently about $4,000, according to Vadim Lamin, head of prime
residential properties at the Moscow-based property broker.
Rents range from $2,000 for a studio to $35,000 for a 600-
square-meter (6,500-square-foot) apartment, Lamin said.  “This market has traditionally been dominated by the
foreign workers, but it’s the Russians who are driving the
demand nowadays,” Lamin said by telephone.  Average rents reached a record high of $8,000 in 2007 as
foreign companies moved their employees to Russia. Since then,
the proportion of non-Russian individuals signing rental
contracts has fallen to 49 percent from 62 percent, Penny Lane
estimates.  Many foreign companies now tend to replace top executives
with Russian specialists, who usually don’t receive relocation
benefits and a housing allowance, said Mikhail Zhukov, the head
of Moscow-based online recruitment company  HeadHunter .  “Unlike five years ago, top Russian managers now have
enough experience and education to replace expatriates,” Zhukov
said in a telephone interview. “This is likely to continue next
year.”  Nissan Motor Co ., Japan’s third-largest automaker, in March
replaced  Fujio Hosaka , the Japanese head of its Russian unit,
with a Russian national.  Dmitry Mikhailov , the new chief,
previously oversaw the company’s production in St. Petersburg.
Nissan announced the appointment in an e-mailed statement.  Improving Economy  Russia’s economy is recovering, fueled by rising commodity
prices and consumer spending, following last year’s 7.9 percent
contraction. Growth will amount to at least 4 percent this year,
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said last week.  The government plans to create a hub in the Moscow suburbs
of Skolkovo to develop and market new technologies, which will
attract both foreign and Russian specialists, looking for high-
end housing in the capital, Lamin said.  Siemens AG , Europe’s
largest engineering company, and  Cisco Systems Inc ., the largest
maker of networking equipment, are among the companies that have
agreed to participate in the project.  “We expect recruitment to really pick up next year,” said
Teri Lindeberg, the founder and chief executive officer of
Moscow-based recruitment company  Staffwell . “Russia is
experiencing a much faster comeback after this crisis than the
U.S.”  In the second quarter, the average number of “elite”
homes available to rent in Moscow fell 14 percent from the
previous three months as some owners tried to sell their
properties, according to Knight Frank. Apartments with space of
101 square meters to 150 square meters accounted for 46 percent
of the total, the London-based property broker said in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague  jagomez@bloomberg.net . 