-- Toshiba Aims to Double Television Sales in Southeast Asia Next Fiscal Year
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 2010-11-29T07:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/toshiba-to-double-southeast-asia-tv-sales-to-40-billion-yen.html
Toshiba Corp.  will introduce a line
of low-cost television models next month in an effort to double
sales to 40 billion yen ($476 million) in Southeast Asia, the
head of the TV unit said.  The company, whose products range from nuclear power plants
to semiconductors to home appliances, targets sales of 1.2
million TVs in the region in the 12 months starting April 2011,
rising from about half a million sets this fiscal year, Masaaki
Oosumi, president of Toshiba’s Visual Products Company, said at
a briefing at its Tokyo headquarters today.  Toshiba  is counting on sales of lower-priced, flat-panel
TVs in Asia next year to help offset an anticipated plunge in
domestic demand after the expiration of Japanese government
subsidies designed to boost consumer spending, Oosumi said.
Production of the new models started this month at a plant in
Jakarta and sales in Southeast Asia begin next month, with 24-
inch models priced at $190.  “The entire industry, not just Toshiba, is betting on
developing markets,” Oosumi said.  Toshiba  rose 2.8 percent to 436 yen at the 3 p.m. close on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange before the announcement. The  stock  has
dropped 15 percent this year, worse than the benchmark  Nikkei
225 Stock Average ’s 4 percent decline.  The company is forecasting total sales of 7 trillion yen in
the 12 months ending March. It sold 10 million TVs worldwide
last fiscal year.  Emerging Markets Plan  The push in Southeast Asia is part of Toshiba’s larger plan
to boost TV sales in emerging markets, where South Korean
competitors  Samsung Electronics Co.  and  LG Electronics Inc.  are
stronger, Oosumi said.  Toshiba  aims to increase its market share in Southeast Asia
to 20 percent in the year ending March 2012 from 10 percent at
present, Oosumi said. The company’s current markets in that
region include Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia, the
Philippines and Singapore.  “We have strong distribution channels in our home
appliances business that we’ve built up over the last 30
years,” Oosumi said. “I’m confident we’ll be able to double
our market share.”  The new line-up features a battery-powered model called the
PC1, designed for markets where electric power is unstable. The
TV, which  Toshiba  bills as the first of its kind, has a maximum
battery life of two hours, and many of the sets have a more
sensitive antenna for areas where TV signals are weak, the
company said.  Toshiba will start construction at its Jakarta plant in
March to increase capacity to eight production lines from the
current six, Oosumi said. The expansion will cost as much 1
billion yen, he said.  The electronics maker is also in negotiations with an
Egyptian partner to begin TV production in that country as early
as March, he said, confirming a report today by NHK, Japan’s
public broadcaster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
 Maki Shiraki  in Tokyo at 
 Mshiraki1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 