-- Lotte to Make Final Offer for Matahari's Stores to Compete With Carrefour
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-11-30T15:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/lotte-to-make-final-offer-for-matahari-s-stores-competing-with-carrefour.html
Lotte Group , the parent of South
Korea’s biggest retailer, will make a final offer for  PT
Matahari Putra Prima ’s hypermarkets in Indonesia to compete
with  Carrefour SA  in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy.  “We’ve come a long way and we’ll make a final bid,” Hwang
Kag Gyu, executive vice president of international and new
business planning at Lotte, said in an interview yesterday.
“There’s ample liquidity so funding won’t be a big problem.”  The purchase would give Lotte as many as 51 of the
combination department store-supermarkets in an economy forecast
to expand 6 percent this year. Units of Seoul-based Lotte, whose
assets include petrochemical operations, are expanding in  China ,
Vietnam, Indonesia and Russia to tap faster growth and rising
affluence in developing markets.  Matahari  may sell most or all of its food-retailing
business, which may be valued at $700 million to $1 billion
including debt, people with knowledge of the deal said earlier
this month.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and French retailer  Casino
Guichard-Perrachon SA  are among the retailers that have looked
at Jakarta-based Matahari’s assets, according to the people.  “ Lotte  has coveted the Indonesian market because of its
relatively friendly mood toward foreign capital and consumption-
oriented economy,”  Lee Ji Young , an analyst at LIG Investment &
Securities Co., said by phone today. “Lotte also has a good
track record with its existing Indonesian operation, so I think
this kind of interest makes sense.”  Indonesia Stores  Matahari  climbed as much as 4.2 percent in Jakarta trading
before closing unchanged at 1,440 rupiah, while the Jakarta
Composite index fell 2.7 percent.  Lotte Shopping , whose
department stores and discount shops make it South Korea’s
biggest retailer, fell 0.1 percent to 473,500 won.  Matahari , founded in 1958, operates 51 hypermarkets and 25
supermarkets in Indonesia, according to its  website . It said it
plans to open 13 hypermarkets next year.  Lotte, the parent of  Lotte Shopping , has 21 outlets, Tong
Yang Securities Inc. said in a Nov. 4 report. Acquiring all of
Matahari’s stores would let the South Korean company overtake
 Carrefour  as the largest hypermarket operator in the Southeast
Asian nation, the brokerage said.  Carrefour , the world’s second-biggest retailer, in June
opened its 64th hypermarket in Indonesia where it also has at
least 16 supermarkets, according to its website. The French
retailer, which entered Asia in 1989 with a hypermarket in
Taiwan,  opened  first store in Jakarta in 1998.  Possible Deadline Delay  The deadline for final bids is likely to be delayed from an
original schedule of early December, Hwang said, without
specifying a new date.  There is also a possibility that bidders may acquire a
stake in  Matahari  instead of buying the hypermarket assets,
Hwang said, adding that the result of the bidding is due next
year.  Lotte Shopping  said Nov. 12 it had submitted a letter of
intent to buy Matahari’s hypermarket business.  Danny Kojongian , Matahari’s director of corporate
communications, declined to comment. “We are still awaiting the
result of the study from Merrill Lynch,” he said in a mobile-
phone text message yesterday.  Casino  and Lotte were considering a binding offer for the
food-retailing business of  Matahari  after proceeding to the
second round of the auction, two people with knowledge of the
deal said earlier this month.  Carlyle Group and Hong Kong’s Dairy Farm International
Holdings Ltd. had also looked at the Indonesian retailer’s
assets, three people familiar with the process said earlier this
month.  China, Southeast Asia  Matahari  said in October it hired Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit to analyze its business and
follow up on interest by companies outside Indonesia for an
investment or partnership. The company sold control of its
department-store arm to a unit of CVC Capital Partners Ltd. for
7.2 trillion rupiah ($795 million) in January.  Lotte Group seeks acquisitions in China and Southeast Asia
as sales overseas in the next decade are likely to expand two to
three times faster than in its domestic market, said Hwang, who
spends about a third of his time abroad.  South Korea’s fifth-largest business group aims to open at
least 15 new discount stores in China next year, and Hwang has
ordered the group’s team in China to look at department stores
it may acquire, he said.  Asia’s economy could be as large as those of the U.S. and
European Union combined by 2015, International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said Oct. 18.  “You should first lead the Asian markets to be a global
name,” Hwang said.  Honam, LuckyPai  Honam Petrochemical Corp., a Lotte unit, said in July it
would acquire Malaysia’s Titan Chemicals Corp. for 1.5 trillion
won ($1.3 billion) in cash. The Korean group said the same month
it would buy 63.2 percent of LuckyPai, a Chinese home-shopping
company, for $130 million.  Lotte Group has said it will increase revenue from overseas
markets to 30 percent of the total by 2018 from an estimated 12
percent this year.  Shin Kyuk Ho  founded Lotte Group in Japan in 1948 as a
bubble-gum maker. The Korean-Japanese businessman opened his
first confectionery plant in South Korea after the normalization
of relations between the two North Asian nations, building Lotte
into a food and leisure group spanning hotels, candy making and
an amusement park in the capital.  Lotte Group  has about 60 affiliated companies including
South Korea’s biggest beverage maker  Lotte Chilsung Beverage
Co. , KP Chemical Corp. and Lotte Card Co.  -- With assistance from  Widya Utami  and  Greg Ahlstrand  in
Jakarta and  Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong. Editors:  Lena Lee ,  Frank Longid .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 