-- Palm Harbor Homes Files for Bankruptcy Protection With Plan to Sell Assets
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2010-11-29T22:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/palm-harbor-homes-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-with-plan-to-sell-assets.html
Palm Harbor Homes Inc.,  a U.S.
builder of factory-made homes, filed for bankruptcy to sell its
assets for about $58 million after saying it might need court
protection from creditors due to  liquidity  constraints.  The company, based in Addison, Texas, listed
$321.3 million in  assets  and $280.3 million in debt as of Oct.
29 in a U.S. Bankruptcy Court filing today in Wilmington,
Delaware. Five affiliates also filed.  Palm Harbor has entered an asset-purchase agreement with a
joint venture of  Cavco Industries Inc.  and  Third Avenue Value
Fund  to sell the assets for $57.5 million, according to a
statement from Phoenix-based Cavco. The offer will be subject to
competitive bidding and court approval.  “Prolonged poor industry conditions have depleted the
liquidity of Palm Harbor Homes despite management’s ongoing
efforts to improve and scale back operations as prudent and
restructure our existing debt,” Palm Harbor Chief Executive
Officer  Larry H. Keener  said in a statement.  Christopher A. Ward , a lawyer for Palm Harbor, didn’t
respond to a phone call seeking comment.  The company defaulted on its credit facility with Textron
Financial Corp. after it failed to comply with covenants and
turnover proceeds from home sales, according to a Nov. 15
statement.  $50 Million Loan  Palm Harbor said today that it will borrow at least
$50 million from Fleetwood Homes Inc. to pay Textron and to
support operations once it exits bankruptcy.  Third Avenue, which manages $13 billion in assets, and
Cavco, a manufactured-home maker, acquired Fleetwood Enterprises
Inc.’s home-building business in a bankruptcy auction last year
for $26.6 million, according to court documents.  Palm Harbor  sales  fell 4.2 percent to $150.6 million in the
six months ended Sept. 24 from $157.2 million in the year-
earlier period, according to the Nov. 15 statement. The net loss
for that period totaled $16.7 million.  Palm Harbor climbed 12.5 cents, or 86 percent, to 27 cents
today in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . Cavco, which rose 33 cents
to $34.53 today, has  fallen  3.9 percent this year.  The case is In re Palm Harbor Homes Inc., 1:10-bk-13850,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 