-- Petronas to Pay $9.5 Billion Dividend as Output Falls
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-11-30T13:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/petronas-to-pay-9-5-billion-dividend-as-oil-output-declines.html
Malaysian state oil company
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. will pay the government a dividend of
about 30 billion ringgit ($9.5 billion) this fiscal year and
focus investment on extending the life of the nation’s reserves,
Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas said.  The dividend -- approaching the $10.5 billion payout by
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , a company with sales almost four times
larger -- will be unchanged from the past two years. After net
income fell 23 percent in the 12 months ended March 31 because
of declining energy prices, Shamsul said the company needs to
invest more to boost domestic oil and gas production.  “We expect to maintain the dividend at the same amount for
the current financial year ending March 2011,” Shamsul, 58,
said on Nov. 8 in an e-mailed reply to questions from  Bloomberg
News . “Over the years, we have been able to uphold our
obligations to return value to our shareholders while at the
same time maintaining healthy capital expenditure levels.”  Petroliam Nasional, known as Petronas, manages all the
petroleum resources in the country,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest oil
and gas producer after  Indonesia . Shamsul said on July 1 he
plans to increase  capital spending  7.8 percent this year to 40
billion ringgit, following two years of falling production.  Malaysia ’s government, which had a budget  deficit  at a 22-year high of 7 percent of gross domestic product last year,
depends on oil and gas revenue for 40 percent of its income,
according to a finance ministry report on Oct. 15.  Ratings Risk  Shell, based in The Hague, paid its 2009 dividend on sales
of $278.2 billion. Kuala Lumpur-based Petronas reported 12-month
sales equal to about $70 billion.  If it can’t cover its dividends and investment spending
from its cash-flow this financial year and next, “then we’ll
take this as an indication that the government may strip
Petronas’s cash reserves in the event of a sovereign crisis,”
Arnon Musiker, a Sydney-based Fitch Ratings analyst, said in a
telephone interview. “We could reduce Petronas’s  foreign
currency rating  by one notch to the Malaysian sovereign.”  Malaysia has crude oil reserves to last 24 years and
natural gas for 38 years, the  finance ministry  said on Oct 15.
Production fell to the equivalent of 1.63 million barrels of oil
a day in the year to March 31 from 1.66 million a year earlier,
according to Petronas’s 2010 annual report.  “Our domestic investments are primarily aimed at boosting
the country’s maturing reserves, maintaining our production rate
and prolonging our reserves life,” said Shamsul.  Riskier Debt  Shamsul became CEO in February, replacing Hassan Marican,
who led the company for 15 years. He joined Petronas in 1975 and
holds a master’s degree in energy management from the  University
of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia. Shamsul stepped down in January
2009 as chief executive of subsidiary  MISC Bhd. (MISC) , the world’s
biggest owner of liquefied natural gas tankers. MISC shares rose
44 percent on the  Kuala Lumpur  stock exchange during Shamsul’s
tenure, seven times faster than the benchmark KLCI index.  Investors regard Petronas’s  debt  to be a riskier bet than
similarly-rated ConocoPhillips, the third-largest U.S. oil
producer, the spreads on the state-owned explorer’s bonds and
credit-default swaps show. Petronas and ConocoPhillips are rated
A by Fitch, the sixth-highest rank, and one level above the
Malaysian government itself.  S&P ranks Petronas’s debt A-, the same as Malaysia and its
seventh-highest investment grade. The company’s stand-alone
credit profile, or its rating independent of the sovereign, is
three notches higher.  Government Intervention  “The company remains sensitive to government
intervention,”  Standard & Poor’s  said in a Nov. 4 report. If
Petronas can’t cover its investment needs and dividend payouts
from cash generated from its operations, this may “pressure”
its credit profile, S&P said.  The extra yield over similar-maturity Treasuries investors
demand to own Petronas’s $3 billion of 5.25 percent bonds due
August 2019 is 125 basis points, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices on Bloomberg. That’s wider than the
extra yield of 79 basis points for  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’ $2.25 billion
of 5.75 percent notes due February 2019, Hapoalim Securities USA
Inc. prices show.  Credit default swaps insuring Petronas’s debt against
default have fallen 10 basis points this month to 80 basis
points, higher than the swaps on ConocoPhillips at 39 basis
points.  Debt Load  Petronas has the equivalent of  $15.3 billion  of bonds and
loans maturing through 2026, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Cash and cash equivalents were 100 billion ringgit
and borrowings 51.3 billion ringgit on June 30, according to the
fiscal first-quarter earnings statement.  “If  oil prices  don’t remain above fiscal 2010 levels and
the operating margin that all oil and gas companies face
continues to decline, Petronas may need to borrow money or use
existing cash reserves to continue paying dividends at current
levels,” Andrew Wong, a Singapore-based credit analyst at S&P,
said in a telephone interview.  Crude in  New York  averaged $78.64 a barrel this year as of
Nov. 26, or 30 percent more than a year earlier, boosting
Petronas’s profit. Net income in the three months ended June 30
rose 60 percent to 12.3 billion ringgit, the company said Oct. 4.
Petronas said today second-quarter profit fell 0.8 percent to
11.9 billion ringgit because of higher taxes.  A recovery in oil prices and proceeds from a share sale by
the petrochemicals unit of Petronas may help fund exploration.
 Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM)  raised $4.1 billion in Malaysia’s
biggest initial public offering this month. About 72 percent of
the proceeds will go to the parent, according to the sale
document released Nov. 1.  Petronas Chemicals  Petronas Chemicals shares fell 0.9 percent to 5.35 ringgit
in Kuala Lumpur. The stock started trading Nov. 26.  Malaysia Marine & Heavy Engineering Bhd. (MMHE) , a rig-building
arm of Petronas-controlled MISC, raised $646 million in a share
sale in October. The parent has a total of six units on the
Kuala Lumpur stock exchange, including  Petronas Dagangan Bhd. (PETD) ,
 Petronas Gas Bhd. (PTG)  and  KLCC Property Holdings Bhd. (KLCC)   Shamsul said it’s too early to plan listings of more units
and ruled out the possibility of selling shares in Petronas
itself.  “As the national corporation vested with the entire
ownership and control of Malaysia’s petroleum reserves, Petronas
remains a key national asset of strategic importance,” he said.
“Listing of Petronas as a group is not a consideration.”  Shamsul said the government understands Petronas’s spending
needs and financial commitments.  “Dividends to the government are decided by the board,
taking into account a number of factors, including the financial
performance of Petronas, its capital expenditure requirements
and other financial commitments,” Shamsul said. “Over the
longer term, payments will still be decided based on those
factors, taking into account investment requirements to sustain
our business growth. This is well understood by our
shareholder.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 