-- Philips Finance Chief Sivignon to Step Down in April
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-11-29T16:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/philips-finance-chief-sivignon-to-step-down-in-april-update1-.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV , the
world’s biggest lighting company, said Chief Financial Officer
 Pierre-Jean Sivignon  will step down in April, when new Chief
Executive Officer  Frans van Houten  takes the helm.  Sivignon, who joined Philips in 2005, is leaving for
personal reasons and “will pursue a career outside the
company,” Amsterdam-based Philips said today in a  statement . He
will be replaced by  Ron Wirahadiraksa , currently CFO of the
Philips’s health-care unit.  The resignation coincides with the departure of  Gerard Kleisterlee , 64, who is retiring after nine years as CEO.  Van Houten  and Wirahadiraksa face the challenge of accelerating
earnings growth after Kleisterlee reorganized the 119-year-old
company into three  divisions  from eight in 2001 to focus on
industries with higher margins and stable earnings.  “This doesn’t seem planned,” said  Marcel Achterberg ,
an Amsterdam-based analyst at Petercam with a “buy”
recommendation on Philips shares. “A CEO change already
is a major event. You’d rather have some overlap with an
experienced CFO.”  Philips  declined  3.9 percent in Amsterdam trading to 21.18
euros, the biggest drop in more than a month. The price values
the company, whose lighting and health-care divisions compete
with  Siemens AG  and General Electric Co., at 20.9 billion euros
($27.4 billion).  ‘Very Important’  “Sivignon has been very important in the financial
management of Philips’s balance sheet,” Petercam’s Achterberg
said. The CFO’s term was scheduled to end in April 2013.  Sivignon’s departure isn’t linked to Van Houten taking
over the top job, said  Joost Akkermans , a spokesman for Philips.
He declined to say whether Sivignon, 53, already has another
position.  Wirahadiraksa, 50, joined Philips in 1987. In 1999 he
became CFO of LG.Philips LCD Co., a joint venture of Philips and
Seoul-based LG Electronics Inc. for liquid-crystal displays.
During his tenure, LC.Philips LCD began listings on the Korean
and New York Stock Exchanges. The venture was renamed  LG Display
Co.  in 2008, the same year the executive became CFO of the
health-care unit.  “Wirahadiraksa has the right background,” said  Mark Reinalda , a fund manager at Allianz Nederland Asset Management
in Nieuwegein, which has about 1.5 billion euros in European
equities including Philips shares. “It makes sense to hire
an insider and a Dutchman next to Van Houten,” he said.  Acquisitions  Kleisterlee and Sivignon have made acquisitions and
divestments to  reshape  Philips into a company with health-care,
lighting and consumer lifestyle divisions. Since 2005, Philips
has spent more than 10 billion euros on acquisitions, including
the 3.6 billion-euro takeover of Respironics Inc., a maker of
masks and ventilators to treat respiratory disorders at home.  Kleisterlee has  sold divisions  making components,
semiconductors and corporate-communications systems, and limited
the effects of losses at the television unit by shifting to
licensing agreements. Philips ended its 10-year relationship
with LG Displays last year.  Philips said in September that it aims for earnings per
share to rise at twice the rate of sales in the next five years,
while revenue excluding acquisitions, disposals and currency
shifts will increase 2 percentage points faster than global
economic growth. The lighting and health-care operations will
produce the most gains, Philips said, while emerging markets
will generate at least 40 percent of sales by 2015.  Management Priorities  “Top managers have three things to do: define a strategy,
hire the right people at the right price to execute it and make
sure they have a solid cash position,” said Allianz Nederland
Asset Management’s Reinalda.  “Kleisterlee chose defensive and predictable,” the fund
manager said. “In a sense he made it difficult for his
successors by making it easy. He pushed the company in a
direction and there’s not much they can do besides continuing on
that track.”  Under Sivignon’s five years as finance chief, Philips’s
 cash pile  grew by 37 percent to 4.39 billion euros as of Oct. 3
from 3.21 billion euros at the end of March 2005. Amid the
global economic crisis, he set out to reduce the company’s fixed
cost base by more than 700 million euros compared to 2008
levels. Philips said last month that it expects to reduce costs
by more than 800 million euros.  Wirahadiraksa’s appointment is “strongly supported” by
management, especially by Van Houten, Kleisterlee said in
today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  