-- Pink Diamond Fetches $23 Million in Christie’s Biggest Gem Sale
-- B y   A d a m   M a j e n d i e
-- 2010-11-29T15:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/pink-diamond-sets-23-million-asian-record-in-christie-s-biggest-gem-sale.html
A 14.23 carat pink diamond sold at
a Hong Kong auction last night for HK$179.9 million ($23.2
million), the most expensive in Asia.  The rectangular-cut gem, called “The Perfect Pink”
because of its clarity and color, was the highest-priced lot at
London-based  Christie’s International’s  sale of more than 300
pieces of jewelry, jade and gems. In 244 years of auctions, only
18 pink diamonds of more than 10 carats (2 grams) have come up
for sale, Christie’s said.  The auction, which also included a HK$27.5 million Nirav
Modi necklace with a 12.25 carat Golconda pear-shaped diamond,
totaled HK$612.6 million, the largest jewelry sale held in Asia
and the London-based auction company’s biggest worldwide,
according to Christie’s. The sale’s jewelry staff all sported
something pink in their attire for the event.  The company’s weeklong sale of wine, art, antiques, watches
and gems at the  Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre ,
expected to total more than HK$1.7 billion, indicates the
strength of demand for luxury items in Asia.  Sotheby’s 
equivalent sale in October raised HK$3.09 billion, more than 50
percent higher than its previous record in the city set in
April.  “Whether it’s jewelry or art or wine, the Asian market is
one of the most important,”  Rahul Kadakia , Christie’s head of
jewelry, said after last night’s sale. “The question is how
much bigger will is become? Every season takes it up a notch.”  So far, Christie’s total for the Hong Kong sale, which 
lasts for a week, has risen to HK$1.26 billion.  ‘Balinese Legend’  The jewels followed a morning auction of Southeast Asian
art that was headlined by German expatriate painter Walter
Spies’s “Balinesische Legende” (Balinese Legend) that set an
artist record of HK$16.9 million.  “Wounded Lion,” by Raden Saleh, one of the earliest
Indonesian modern artists, representing a mortal blow to the
colonial Dutch, fetched about HK$6.6 million. The artist died in
1880, 65 years before Indonesian independence.  Among the contemporary Southeast Asian artists,  Nyoman Masriadi ’s “Trombone,” dated two months before the sale, sold
for HK$2.7 million, beating its HK$1.4 million high estimate.  In the weekend sales of Chinese and Asian contemporary art,
Sanyu’s “Potted Chrysanthemum in a Blue and White Jardiniere”
sold for HK$53.3 million, a record for the artist. Buying was 
selective during the art sales, with competitive bidding for 
pieces deemed to be of the best quality and sporadic bidding 
for lesser works.  Among the high profile failure in the auction was  Cai Guo Qiang ’s 32-meter wide “Search for Extraterrestrials” in 
Chinese ink, smoke and gunpowder on paper.   Christie’s sale prices on art include a commission of 25
percent on the first HK$400,000, 20 percent up to and including
HK$8 million, and 12 percent of the remainder, paid by the
buyer. Estimates are for the hammer price, which doesn’t include
the commission.  Today, Christie’s continues with classical and modern
Chinese paintings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Majendie  in Hong Kong at  amajendie@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 