-- Porsche's Board Backs Development of Cajun Small SUV as Fifth Model Line
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-11-29T17:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/porsche-s-board-backs-development-of-cajun-small-suv-as-fifth-model-line.html
Porsche SE  will add a fifth model
line and hire a new development chief as the maker of the 911
sports car prepares to merge with  Volkswagen AG .  Porsche’s supervisory board today signed off on developing
the Cajun sport-utility vehicle, which will be smaller than the
Cayenne SUV, its best-selling model, the Stuttgart, Germany-
based carmaker said in an e-mailed statement.  Porsche said  Wolfgang Hatz , who heads VW’s engines unit,
will take over as development chief on Feb. 1, replacing
 Wolfgang Duerheimer , who will become chief executive officer of
VW’s ultra-luxury unit Bentley Motors Ltd.  VW Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn , who also runs
Porsche’s holding company, aims to almost double Porsche sales
to 150,000 vehicles by 2014 and increase cooperation between the
two carmakers. Winterkorn told workers today in Stuttgart that
Porsche will develop future platforms for VW group sports cars
and luxury sedans, spokesman Dirk Erat said.  “Porsche has its ambitious agenda clearly cut out,” said
 Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Bankhaus Metzler
who recommends buying the stock. “Access to VW’s vast
technology may help them pursue their growth goals.”  Porsche  announced plans last week to spend 150 million
euros ($197 million) to beef up its research center near
Stuttgart to expand its lineup from 38 models across four
vehicle lines. The carmaker’s deliveries, including the $106,000
Panamera sedan and Cayenne SUV, rose 8.8 percent in the last
fiscal year to 81,850 vehicles.  Porsche Profit  Porsche, which today reported first-quarter  net income  of
155 million euros compared with a loss of 431 million euros a
year earlier, is in the process of merging with VW, Europe’s
largest carmaker. Volkswagen acquired 49.9 percent of Porsche’s
auto-making unit after the sports-car manufacturer failed in a
hostile takeover attempt for Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW.  Porsche  will ask shareholders at a meeting tomorrow to
approve a capital increase of about 5 billion euros in the first
half of next year, with the carmaker’s controlling shareholders,
the Porsche and Piech families, contributing 2.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 