-- Porsche Advances After Investors Back $6.5 Billion Share Sale to Cut Debt
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-12-01T09:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/porsche-investors-may-back-share-sale-as-route-to-cheap-vw-stock.html
Porsche SE  advanced to the highest in
13 months after investors approved a 5 billion-euro ($6.5
billion) stock sale to reduce the sports-car maker’s debt before
a combination with  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker.  The preferred shares rose 2.95 euros, or 5.1 percent, to
60.78 euros, the highest since Oct. 20, 2009, and were up 1.9
percent as of 10:31 a.m. in Frankfurt. VW gained 2.1 percent.  Porsche shareholders  late yesterday voted in favor of
raising the funds, half of which will come from the Porsche and
Piech families, who control the common stock. Investors holding
88 percent of the publicly traded preferred shares supported the
measure, the Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker said.  The maker of the 911 sports car agreed to combine with VW
in August 2009 after a failed attempt by Porsche to gain control
of VW. Proceeds from Porsche’s share sale, which the company
aims to complete by May 30, will be used to help pay back a 2.5
billion-euro  bank loan  expiring at the end of June.  “The capital increase is a necessary step to take if the
merger with VW is to be achieved,”  Jens Meyer , a fund manager
at Frankfurt-based Deka Investment GmbH, said. “A merger is the
only chance to be able to participate in the carmaker’s healthy
long-term financial basis.”  Porsche’s  preferred shares  have risen 36 percent in 2010,
while VW’s preferred stock has surged 95 percent, valuing the
Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker at 53.6 billion euros.  “Porsche preferred shares are the cheapest way to get a
slice of a joint company,” said  Juergen Meyer , who oversees
about 1 billion euros at SEB Asset Management in Frankfurt
including more than 1.4 million Porsche shares.  High Debts  Porsche racked up more than 10 billion euros of debt in its
unsuccessful attempt to buy VW. Volkswagen now owns 49.9 percent
of Porsche’s carmaking operations. Costs linked to Porsche’s
purchase of VW stock in the takeover bid led to two consecutive
years of  net losses .  Holders of common stock unanimously backed the capital
increase at yesterday’s meeting. The vote needed the approval of
75 percent of common and preferred shareholders present to pass.  “All stakeholders will benefit as a result,” said VW
Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn , who also runs
Porsche’s holding company. “You are playing a key role in two
of the companies best placed to master the challenges of
tomorrow’s automotive industry.”  The deadline for the share sale would be extended until
Aug. 30 should any investor lawsuits result in a delay, Chief
Financial Officer  Hans Dieter Poetsch  said.  “The capital increase should prove a decisive step to
reduce our company’s liabilities,” said Poetsch, who also holds
VW’s top finance post.  Merger Delays  Even though shareholders backed the capital increase, the
merger, originally scheduled for completion in the second half
of 2011, may stall until the resolution of tax disputes in
Germany and lawsuits in the U.S., Winterkorn said.  U.S.-based short sellers of VW stock have sued Porsche,
claiming the carmaker secretly  piled up VW shares  and later
caused the investors to lose more than $1 billion. A U.S. court
will determine in January whether the case may proceed.  VW is also working with German tax authorities to resolve
issues connected to the merger. Legal requirements tied to
 Porsche ’s structure could result in taxes of as much as 2
billion euros if the two merged before the end of 2014, Poetsch
said.  VW  can also opt for a put/call structure from late 2012 
to buy the remaining 50.1 percent of Porsche’s car-making 
operations for 3.9 billion euros should the lawsuits and tax 
issues delay the merger. Such a move could inflict a tax 
burden of at least 1 billion euros, Poetsch said.  “The holders of preferred shares are the big losers,”
said  Christian Strenger , a former management board chairman at
DWS Investment GmbH. “The Porsche and Piech families are to be
blamed that Porsche got engulfed in Icarus-style financial
speculation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Berlin via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Andreas Cremer  in Stuttgart, Germany, via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 