-- Porsche Names VW's Hatz Development Chief as Duerheimer Takes Over Bentley
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-11-29T13:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/porsche-names-vw-s-hatz-development-chief-as-duerheimer-takes-over-bentley.html
Porsche AG , the maker of the 911
sports car, appointed  Volkswagen AG ’s engines head  Wolfgang Hatz 
to take over as development chief as the luxury manufacturer
prepares to add models.  Hatz will succeed  Wolfgang Duerheimer , who will replace
 Franz-Josef Paefgen  as chief executive officer of VW’s ultra-
luxury unit Bentley Motors Ltd., Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW
said in an e-mailed statement today. Paefgen, 64, will retire,
VW said.  Hatz will continue in his position at Wolfsburg, Germany-
based VW when he replaces Duerheimer on Feb. 1. The executive
will take charge of research and development as Porsche expands
its lineup from 38 models across four vehicle lines in a bid to
almost double annual sales to 150,000 vehicles by 2014.  Volkswagen, seeking to overtake  Toyota Motor Corp.  by
deliveries and profitability no later than 2018, is merging with
Porsche as both carmakers develop a model strategy that includes
sharing platforms. A fifth model line will probably be a smaller
version of the Cayenne SUV, Porsche’s best-selling model,
Duerheimer said Sept. 30.  Porsche will hold a shareholder meeting in Stuttgart
tomorrow to get approval for a capital increase of 5 billion
euros ($6.9 billion) to help reduce debts.  Porsche will spend about 150 million euros to expand its
development center in Weissach near Stuttgart, the company said
Nov. 23. Porsche is currently hiring more than 100 engineers at
the facility.  Duerheimer will, like Paefgen, also run Molsheim, France-
based  Bugatti , the third ultra-luxury brand in VW’s stable
besides Bentley and  Automobili Lamborghini SpA .  Duerheimer will need to turn around Bentley as customers
have fled the Crewe, England-based carmaker’s aging models such
as the Continental, which starts in the U.S. at $177,600.
Bentley’s sales plunged 50 percent to 4,000 vehicles last year.  Bentley posted a nine-month operating loss of 145 million
euros, almost unchanged from the 148 million-euro deficit a year
earlier. The only other VW division to report a loss in the
first three quarters was the Spanish Seat brand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 