-- Porsche Posts Quarterly Profit on Demand for Cayenne SUV, Panamera Sedan
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-11-29T16:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/porsche-posts-quarterly-net-income-on-cayenne-suv-panamera-sedan-demand.html
Porsche SE , the maker of the 911
sports car, posted a profit in the fiscal first quarter because
of growing demand for the Cayenne sport-utility vehicle and
Panamera sedan.  Net income was 155 million euros ($204 million) in the
three months through October compared with a loss of 431 million
euros a year earlier, the Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer
said today in a statement.  Porsche is in the process of merging with  Volkswagen AG ,
Europe’s largest carmaker. VW acquired 49.9 percent of Porsche’s
car-making unit after Porsche last year failed in a hostile
takeover attempt for Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW. Porsche, which
will switch to calendar-year reporting in 2011, said today it
will “at least” breakeven in the transitional five-month
fiscal year and expects to post a profit in 2011.  “The figures are extremely strong and give clear evidence
that Porsche is back on track for future growth,” said  Daniel Schwarz , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt who
recommends holding the stock.  Porsche’s preferred  shares  have gained 28 percent this
year, valuing the German carmaker at 9.8 billion euros. The
stock traded down 3.1 percent as of 5:03 p.m. in Frankfurt.  The effects from the valuation of so-called put/call
options on Porsche’s remaining 50.1 percent stake in its car-
making unit reduced first-quarter results by 123 million euros,
the company said.  Management Changes  Porsche today also appointed  Wolfgang Hatz , who heads VW’s
engine unit, to take over as development chief in February as
the luxury manufacturer prepares to add models. Hatz will
succeed  Wolfgang Duerheimer , who will replace  Franz-Josef Paefgen , 64, as chief executive officer of VW’s ultra-luxury
unit Bentley Motors Ltd. Paefgen is retiring, VW said.  Porsche’s automotive division reported on Nov. 24 that
operating profit increased more than sevenfold to 395 million
euros from 52 million euros.  Sales  climbed 80 percent to 2.1
billion euros, spurred by higher demand for the Cayenne and
Panamera. Porsche said at the time it expects a return on sales
in the last five months of the year that is “clearly” more
than 10 percent.  VW’s planned combination with Porsche, originally due to
be completed in the second half of 2011, may be delayed until
U.S. lawsuits and German tax-related hurdles are resolved,
 Martin Winterkorn , chief executive officer of Volkswagen and
Porsche’s holding company, said Oct. 19.  U.S. Lawsuits  Porsche is being sued by U.S.-based short sellers of VW
stock who claim the manufacturer secretly cornered the market in
VW shares and later caused them more than $1 billion in losses.
A U.S. court will decide in January whether to let the case go
forward.  The  sports-car maker  will ask shareholders tomorrow to
approve a capital increase of 5 billion euros in the first half
of next year, with the carmaker’s controlling investors, the
Porsche and Piech families, due to contribute 2.5 billion euros.  The capital increase, which may also include selling
convertible bonds, will help Porsche pay back a 2.5 billion-euro
bank loan slated to expire June 30, 2011. Lenders have agreed to
give  Porsche  additional time until Oct. 31, 2011, to repay the
facility should the capital increase be thwarted or delayed.  Volkswagen agreed to join with Porsche in August 2009 after
the sports-car maker’s debt tripled to more than 10 billion
euros following the failed bid to buy VW by securing stock
through options trading. Debt has since fallen to 6 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 