-- Carlyle's $614 Million Offer For Malaysia Fast-Food Company QSR Rejected
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-11-29T12:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/qsr-spurns-revised-takeover-bid-from-kub-idaman-cvc-update1-.html
Kulim (Malaysia) Bhd . rejected a
1.94 billion ringgit ($614 million) takeover bid from Carlyle
Group and a matching rival offer for Southeast Asian fast-food
chain operator  QSR Brands Bhd. , saying it has no desire to sell.  “As QSR and subsidiaries are currently experiencing robust
growth, the board believes that more value can be realized in
the long term and therefore the companies should be retained
within the group,” Kulim, QSR’s biggest shareholder, said in a
statement today.  Carlyle, a Washington-based private equity firm, offered
6.70 ringgit a share for all of QSR on Nov. 25, 19 percent more
than the closing price that day. QSR today rejected an improved
rival bid of the same value by a company led by Malaysian
businessman Halim Saad, KUB Malaysia Bhd., and a unit of CVC
Capital Partners Ltd., a London-based buyout firm.  A takeover of Kuala Lumpur-based QSR would give the new
owner control of  KFC Holdings (Malaysia) Bhd. , the nation’s
biggest fast-food operator, as well as the Pizza Hut chain of
restaurants in Malaysia and Singapore.  Listed in April 2004, QSR operates more than 530 KFC
restaurants in Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei and Cambodia, and
about 230 Pizza Hut outlets in Malaysia and Singapore, according
to its  website .  KUB  owns the franchise for A&W fast-food outlets in
Malaysia and Thailand. Kulim owns 55.1 percent of QSR, which in
turn holds 50.6 percent of KFC, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Stock Surges  QSR rose 1 percent to 6.26 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur trading
before it was suspended today. The stock has surged 89 percent
this year, outpacing the benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index’s  18 percent gain.  Shares of KUB, QSR, Kulim and KFC will all resume trading
tomorrow after they were halted today.  Kulim said its board rejected Carlyle’s offer because the
businesses of QSR and its subsidiaries are part of the group’s
“key entities.”  Idaman Saga Sdn., a company part-owned by businessman Halim,
made the first move for QSR on Nov. 22, offering 5.60 ringgit a
share. Idaman later teamed up with KUB and CVC to raise its bid
to match Carlyle’s Nov. 25 offer. QSR issued a separate
statement earlier today rejecting the group’s revised offer,
without giving a reason.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid in Hong Kong at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net . 