-- Rand Gains From Two-Month Low on October Credit Growth, Ireland Debt Plan
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-11-29T10:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/rand-gains-from-two-month-low-on-october-credit-growth-ireland-debt-plan.html
The rand gained from its weakest
level in more than two months as South African credit expanded
and Ireland won an emergency loan package to help its banks,
boosting demand for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  The South African currency appreciated 0.5 percent to
7.1201 per dollar at 11:27 a.m. in Johannesburg. It tumbled 1.4
percent in the previous session to 7.1530, its weakest level
since Sept. 16.  Growth in borrowing by households and businesses
accelerated to 5.1 percent in October, the fastest pace in 17
months, as interest-rate cuts supported a rebound in consumer
spending. Ireland received an 85 billion-euro aid package ($113
billion) from European governments, which diluted proposals to
force bondholders to bear some cost of future bailouts.  “The steady rise in credit growth supports the case for
the repo to remain flat this year and into 2011,” Tebogo
Mosepele, an analyst with Johannesburg Standard Bank Group Ltd.,
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients. “This should be positive
from an interest-rate differential perspective.”  The rand has advanced 39 percent versus the euro and 32
percent to the dollar since the start of 2009 as near-zero rates
in developed nations prompted investors to seek returns in
higher-yielding emerging markets. South Africa’s  central bank
cut  its main lending rate by 50 basis points to 5.5 percent on
Nov. 18, the ninth reduction since December 2008. That compares
with central-bank rates of 0.25 percent in the U.S. and 1
percent in the euro area.  Bonds, Inflows  Bonds declined for a fifth day, with the benchmark 13.5
percent security due September 2015 retreating 9 cents to 123.85
rand. That raised the yield by 2 basis points to 7.48 percent,
the highest since Aug. 11.  “Yesterday’s larger-than-anticipated bailout for Ireland,
alongside several other pronouncements out of Brussels, could
help to calm markets in the short term,” analysts including
 Michael Keenan  at Standard Bank Group Ltd. wrote in an e-mailed
note to clients today. “However, shifting sovereign debt
concerns centered on Portugal and possibly Spain could see any
market relief being short-lived.”  Foreign investors were net sellers of 2.71 billion rand of
South African bonds last week, according to data from JSE Ltd.,
which manages the country’s bond and stock exchanges.  “Portfolio inflows have been the major driver of rand
strength over the past 18 months,” according to Keenan.
“Therefore, the rand could weaken substantially if capital
flows keep reversing, which seems increasingly likely now that
interest-rate cut expectations have faded.”  Forward-rate agreements, or FRAs, showed money-market
investors raised bets the South African Reserve Bank will
maintain its 5.5 percent key interest rate when it announces its
next decision on Jan. 20. The  cost of three-month contracts for
cash due in one month  fell by 1 basis point to 5.52 percent. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  