-- Ratan Tata Files Petition in Court to Prevent Phone Taps Being Made Public
-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-11-29T12:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/ratan-tata-files-petition-in-court-to-prevent-phone-taps-being-made-public.html
Ratan Tata , the chairman of India’s
Tata Group, filed a petition in the country’s top court today
seeking to amend a century-old law and stop phone conversations
between him and the founder of a public relations company from
being circulated.  The petition asks the court to “prevent unauthorized
publication” of Tata’s phone conversations, said his lawyer
 Harish Salve . Niira Radia, the public relations executive whose
firm represents the Tata Group, is being investigated by India’s
tax department over allegations of money laundering, court
documents show. The phone taps were part of the probe.  “These tapes cannot be made public because it violates the
privacy of other persons,” Salve told reporters today. The
conversations are “being leaked. It should have been kept in
safe custody,” he said.  Tata, who runs companies from a  tea producer  to a  power
generator , is seeking to amend the Indian Telegraph Act 1885,
the law which governs phone taps, to ban conversations being
made public. Tata’s petition comes two days after he urged the
government to investigate the sale of phone licenses that were
challenged in an official audit.  The government has ordered a probe into the leak of the
phone calls, a home ministry official, who declined to be
identified, said today.  Radia said in a statement last week that she and her
company  Vaishnavi Corporate Communications  are “complying and
cooperating” with investigating agencies and that certain
reports in the media were “baseless and misleading.”  India’s award of phone licenses at below-market prices may
have cost the state $31 billion, according to the country’s
chief auditor. The government collected 123.9 billion rupees
($2.7 billion) from the sale of second-generation wireless
spectrum, the  Comptroller and Auditor General of India  said in a
report to parliament this month.  The Tata Group is India’s biggest with sales of $67.4
billion in the year to March 31, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
P.S. Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tuhin Kar at 
 tkar1@bloomberg.net  