-- RBA's Stevens Sees `Unprecedented' Export Demand Fueling Growth Long Term
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-29T10:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/rba-s-stevens-sees-unprecedented-export-demand-fueling-growth-long-term.html
Reserve Bank of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said the nation’s mining industry may propel the
economy over the long term with less volatility, fueled by
“unprecedented” demand for steel in China and India.  “There is likely to be a further significant rise in
business investment over the next few years, from a level that
is already reasonably high as a share of gross domestic
product,” Stevens said in a speech in Melbourne today. He said
growth is likely to remain strong even as RBA staff forecasts
assume a 30 percent drop in iron-ore prices over the next
several years.  Stevens didn’t address monetary policy in his prepared
remarks to the Committee for Economic Development of Australia
event, focusing instead on how to handle the prosperity brought
by the biggest mining  expansion  in more than a century. While
steep declines have followed past booms, the strength of Chinese
and Indian demand may help cushion any slump, he said.  “The most prudent assumption to make might be that the
terms of trade will be persistently higher than they used to be,
by enough that we will need to accommodate structural change in
the economy,” he said. “Even with allowance for supply
responses by other producers and considerably lower prices than
we see today, that seems to point to a prominent role for the
resources sector, broadly defined, over a longish horizon.”  Currency’s Rise  Australia’s jobs and investment surge has helped fuel a 7.2
percent increase in the local currency over the past three
months, the best performance among 16 major currencies. Stevens
said today that gain is helping to contain inflation.  “The higher exchange rate also speeds the spread of the
income gains from the terms of trade rise to sectors other than
the resources sector, by directly increasing their purchasing
power over imports,” he said. “The resulting rise in imports
spills demand for tradable goods and services abroad, which
helps to reduce domestic inflation.”  In testimony to lawmakers last week, Stevens indicated that
monetary policy was appropriate for now. The central bank raised
interest rates four weeks ago as energy companies including BG
Group Plc increase hiring to meet demand from Asian nations.  “On all the indications available, we are living through
an event that occurs maybe once or twice in a century,” Stevens
said today. “We obviously have to be wary of overheating.”  LNG Projects  BG Group , based in Reading, U.K., said last month it will
begin work on a $15 billion liquefied natural gas venture in
Queensland, generating 5,000 construction jobs. BG, Chevron
Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are among energy
companies investing about A$200 billion ($193.8 billion) in
proposed LNG projects in Australia.  The governor said Australian policy makers may need to
consider running higher budget surpluses to help smooth the
business cycle and establish a stabilization fund to hold the
windfall from the resource industry.  “A prudent approach might be to use the current period of
exceptionally favorable international prices to raise our
saving, while maintaining a disciplined approach to ensuring
there are no impediments to lifting productivity,” Stevens
said.  Responding to questions from the audience after his speech,
Stevens said current changes in the global economy have “few if
any parallels in human history” and Australia’s trade numbers
are one of the best demonstrations of that.  He cited the fact the country’s four major export
destinations are China, Japan, Korea and India as evidence of
Asia’s increasing importance.  While global financial sentiment and pricing remain driven
by the U.S. economy, “from a trade and real output point of
view, the shift in the center of gravity to our time zone has
been striking,” Stevens said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net 
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net . 