-- Treasury 30-Year Returns as Bellwether as Fed Propels Trading
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-11-29T19:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/treasury-30-year-returns-as-market-bellwether-as-fed-policy-propels-trade.html
For the first time since the 1990s
the U.S.  30-year Treasury  bond is becoming the benchmark for the
world’s biggest debt investors.  The Federal Reserve’s plan to buy $600 billion of U.S.
government debt will focus about 86 percent of its purchases in
notes due in 2.5 years to 10 years, leaving the so-called long
bond as the security that most closely reflects market
expectations for inflation. Since the Fed’s Nov. 3 announcement,
the 30-year yield rose 0.28 percentage point, suggesting growing
investor confidence in the central bank’s efforts to avoid
deflation as the economy expands.  “The 30-year, with minimal Fed involvement, will become
the bellwether issue for the bond market’s outlook on the
economy and inflation,” said  Gary Pollack,  who helps oversee
$12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank
AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New York.  Trading in Treasuries due in 11 years and more tripled
since July, compared with a 60 percent jump for all maturities,
according to Fed data. Volume reached  $65.7 billion  in the week
ended Nov. 10 among the 18 primary dealers that trade with the
central bank, the largest amount since at least 2001.  The rise in 30-year yields to a six-month high of 4.42
percent on Nov. 15 shows traders expect Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will head off deflation, which can stall recoveries by
curtailing spending and investment, said  Rohit Garg , an
interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA.  Faster Growth  The yield fell  7 basis points  to 4.21 percent last week as
the price of the 4.25 percent security due November 2040 rose 1
6/32, or $11.88 per $1,000 face value to 100 21/32, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The yield fell six basis points today,
dropping to 4.15 percent as of 2:35 p.m. in New York.  “The sector of the market where the Fed’s not buying will
give you a truer indication of private-sector sentiment about
the outlook,”  Paul McCulley , a partner at Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a
Nov. 15 interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage”
with  Kathleen Hays.  Pimco manages the $255.9 billion  Total
Return Fund , the world’s largest bond mutual fund. “We are in a
sustained recovery pattern,” he said.  Government reports last week showed the U.S. economy
continuing to improve from the worst recession since the Great
Depression in the 1930s.  Jackson Hole Speech  The Commerce Department said gross domestic product
expanded 2.5 percent on an annualized basis in the third
quarter, up from its initial estimate of 2 percent. Wages and
salaries jumped by $97.4 billion at an annual pace in the second
quarter from the first, up from a previously reported $51.1
billion. Americans filed the fewest unemployment claims in more
than two years in the week ended Nov. 20.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show 30-year bonds
returned 23.6 percent, including reinvested interest, through
August, when investors began to focus on Bernanke’s Aug. 27
statements at the central bank’s annual symposium in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming. “Additional purchases of longer-term securities,
should the FOMC choose to undertake them, would be effective in
further easing financial conditions,” he said. The long bond
lost 11.7 percent since then.  During the speech, Bernanke laid the groundwork for the
second round of bond purchases in so-called quantitative easing
to add cash to the financial system and keep borrowing costs low
to sustain the recovery.  Muted Inflation  The  gap  between yields on 10- and 30-year Treasuries
reached a record 1.6 percentage points on Nov. 10 from 1.07 on
Sept. 1. The difference typically widens when investors
anticipate growth and inflation, which erodes the value of fixed
payments the most for bonds due in 30 years. The interest rate
on the longest-maturity debt has risen 0.75 percentage points
from a 17-month low of 3.46 percent Aug. 25.  “The market is affirming the Fed’s actions will be
successful,” said  John Fath,  former head Treasury trader at UBS
AG and now a managing partner in New York at BTG Pactual, a
Brazilian investment bank and asset manager.  Inflation expectations remain muted, as the long bond’s
yield remains more than 3 percentage points below its  average 
since 1980 of 7.40 percent. Treasury Inflation Protected
 Securities , or TIPS, have returned 1.14 percent since August,
compared with a 1.49 percent loss for Treasuries, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  ‘Going to Deflation’  Fed officials lowered their forecasts for economic growth
at their Nov. 2-3 meeting, projecting an expansion of 3 percent
to 3.6 percent next year, down from 3.5 percent to 4.2 percent
estimated in June, according to the minutes released Nov. 23.
The 2012 forecasts of 3.6 percent to 4.5 percent growth compare
with the earlier projections of 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent.  “Monetary policy is totally ineffective,” said  Lacy Hunt, 
executive vice president at Austin, Texas-based Hoisington
Investment Management Co., whose  Wasatch-Hoisington U.S.
Treasury Fund  is buying bonds and zero-coupon securities. “The
problem with the economy is excessive indebtedness. There’s lack
of  balance sheet  capacity of the banks to make loans and there’s
lack of balance sheet capacity for the borrowers to take on
additional debt. Ultimately we’re going to deflation.”  The long bond served as a benchmark for governments and
companies selling long-term debt since the Treasury began
regular sales in 1977 until 2001, when then-Undersecretary for
Domestic Finance  Peter Fisher  suspended auctions, saying they
were too costly. Investors turned to the 10-year note as the
market benchmark.  Most Volatile  Expanding  budget  deficits led Treasury officials to resume
sales in 2006. Offerings increased as the financial crisis
worsened and tax receipts plummeted, causing the shortfall to
reach $1.4 trillion in 2009. The next auction is scheduled for
Dec. 9.  Returns on the securities have historically been the most
volatile in the Treasuries market. They gained 41.2 percent in
2008 as investors seeking the safest, most liquid bonds
following the collapse of  Bear Stearns Cos.  and Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. drove yields down to 2.51 percent from 4.45
percent at the start of the year.  They lost 26 percent in 2009 as Congress passed the Obama
administration’s $862 billion stimulus plan and the economy grew
in the last half of the year after shrinking in four consecutive
quarters, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. Yields
rose to 4.64 percent from 2.68 percent.  “If you want to play out there you’d better have a very
tight seat belt and a strong stomach,” Pollack of Deutsche Bank
said in a telephone interview.  ‘Better Insight’  While the Fed can measure expectations for economic growth
from stocks,  bond yields  offer the best read on whether the U.S.
will escape deflation, according to  Stephen Stanley,  a former
RBS Securities chief economist and Richmond Fed researcher who’s
chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut.  “If you’re judging between very broad economic scenarios
like a Japanese-style malaise versus a normal cyclical
recovery,” the 30-year bonds give better insight, Stanley said
in a telephone interview Nov. 19. “The economy is still in the
early stages of improving after a soft patch in the beginning of
the year.”  Stanley says the long bond’s yield will reach 5.3 percent
by the end of 2011. Investors buying the security at the current
yield of 4.21 percent would lose about 11 percent if Stanley’s
forecast is accurate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As the Fed boosts  inflation expectations  and stimulates
growth, the rise will be gradual in part because Treasuries
provide a haven when investors flee riskier assets, said  Richard Schlanger , who helps invest $18 billion as vice president at
Pioneer Investments in Boston. Demand from pension funds and
insurance companies for debt that corresponds with future
liabilities, will keep the ceiling on the yield at about 5
percent next year, he said in a phone interview.  “When you have a watershed event like we have, it lasts
for a longer period of time than most people think,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  