-- Reducing BOJ's Independence Won't Help Overcome Deflation, DPJ Member Says
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-11-29T04:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/reducing-boj-s-independence-won-t-help-overcome-deflation-dpj-member-says.html
Japanese politicians need to find
ways to boost economic growth and can’t count on legislation
that would reduce the Bank of Japan’s independence to cure
deflation, a ruling Democratic Party of Japan lawmaker said.  “We can’t expect Japan’s economy to overcome its
difficulties just because the law is revised -- the issues
aren’t so simple,”  Shinichiro Furumoto , 45, chairman of the
DPJ’s fiscal and finance policy panel, said in an interview on
Nov. 26 in Tokyo. “Just implementing quantitative easing and
churning out yen won’t spur demand.”  Some ruling and opposition lawmakers want to revise the BOJ
law to force the central bank to adopt an inflation target to
help conquer more than a decade of falling prices. Furumoto’s
comments signal DPJ lawmakers calling for the change may have
difficulty convincing party members that shape economic policy.  Discussions on how much influence the government should
have over monetary policy must be conducted “carefully” and
people need to take into account that the central bank’s
independence is guaranteed under the current law, said Furumoto,
whose panel is in charge of making fiscal-policy recommendations
to the government.  Some 150 DPJ lawmakers, who call themselves the anti-
deflation league, said last week the BOJ should adopt an
inflation target to eradicate price declines and bolster
employment. Opposition group Your Party this month submitted a
bill to the diet calling for a revision to the law.  Tax Incentives  The government needs to boost personal consumption through
subsidies and tax incentives that are similar to recent stimulus
programs that have promoted purchases of energy-efficient cars
and electronic goods, Furumoto said.  The DPJ lawmaker said bolstering consumption “will create
the demand for money” and it is “only with such demand that
the policy of printing money will become effective.”  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said today that increasing
growth expectations among companies and consumers and reviving
demand are crucial in trying to overcome deflation.  Japanese companies have 164 trillion yen ($1.95 trillion)
in cash on hand because they haven’t found attractive investment
options, he said in a speech in Nagoya, central Japan.  The ruling party is considering increasing inheritance
taxes while lowering gift levies to encourage older generations
to pass on wealth to younger people who have more incentives to
buy cars, houses and goods, Furumoto said.  Despite increased calls by politicians for a revision of
the BOJ law, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  haven’t openly discussed the need to overhaul the
central bank’s policy goals.  Government Views  Furumoto, who has also served as a parliamentary secretary
at the Finance Ministry, said government views on the economy
have been reflected in BOJ policy because Kan and Noda have been
in close contact with central bank officials.  “Some argue the BOJ is doing whatever it wants because it
is protected by its independence,” Furumoto said. “But that
would imply the prime minister and the finance minister haven’t
played any role in policy, and I disagree with the view.”  Furumoto also said the BOJ is already adopting a price
framework similar to inflation targeting, with its board members
saying they consider price rises of around 1 percent as stable.
The bank last month pledged to maintain a “virtually zero-rate
policy” until an outlook emerges for sustained price increases.  Governments of countries such as the U.K. and New Zealand
set inflation targets for central banks, and the banks decide
themselves the policy steps needed to meet those goals. The Bank
of England’s governor needs to write a letter of explanation to
the Treasury if inflation fails to stay within the limits.  The 1998 Bank of Japan Law strengthened the bank’s
independence by ending the government’s authority to dismiss the
governor and deputy chiefs and its right over supervising BOJ
operations. It states the bank should strive to achieve “price
stability, thereby contributing to the sound development of the
national economy.”  Furumoto said the law can be interpreted as making it part
of the BOJ’s mandate to support employment even though it does
not explicitly say so because policies to stabilize prices can
also create jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net 
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  