-- Rejected U.S. Corn Cargo Said to Be Shipped Out of China by End of Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-29T05:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/rejected-u-s-corn-cargo-to-be-shipped-out-of-china-warehouse-by-year-end.html
A U.S. corn cargo held in a Chinese
warehouse since September for failing to meet local regulations
on gene-altered grain will be shipped out by the yearend, three
people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The corn was offloaded into a warehouse at Chiwan Port in
the south of the country in September, and later rejected by
quarantine officials, said the people, who declined to be
identified as authorities haven’t made the matter public. The
destination has not been decided, they said.  China’s state-owned Cofco Ltd. bought the 54,000 ton cargo
from a Japanese trading company, two officials with direct
knowledge have said previously. This was the first time China
rejected a U.S. corn shipment, they said.  “China’s rejection has had a negative impact on importers
of U.S. corn, because the message is that no matter how short
China’s grain supply is, the government’s tough controls on
imports won’t change,” Li Qiang, managing director of Shanghai
JC, said from Shanghai. Such uncertainties will increase risks
and costs of future imports, he said.  China, the world’s second-biggest corn consumer, may import
more than 1.6 million tons of the grain this year, almost all
from the U.S., according to the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center. That would be the most since about
1994-1995, when the country bought 4.3 million tons, according
to data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Still, China’s imports will rise in the long run, and “the
government has said it can only maintain a tight balance,” Li
said. “From our sources, we learned within three to six months,
this particular strain of rejected seeds may be approved.”  China has bought foreign corn and sold from state
stockpiles to cool domestic prices that climbed 27 percent in
the past 12 months, helping push inflation to the fastest pace
in two years.  Two phone calls to Cofco’s media department in Beijing
today seeking comment were not returned. A call to the General
Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine
in Beijing was not answered.  -- William Bi . Editors: Richard Dobson, Ravil Shirodkar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Bi  in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  