-- Reliance Communications Falls to Record After Court Order on Call Charges
-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2010-11-29T13:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/reliance-communications-falls-to-record-after-court-order-on-call-charges.html
Reliance Communications Ltd. ,
India’s second-largest mobile phone operator, slumped to a
record low in Mumbai trading after the Supreme Court said the
company may have to pay additional call charges.  The shares  fell  2.2 percent to 127.7 rupees, the lowest
since listing in March 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  gained
1.4 percent.  Reliance Communications may need to pay charges at
international rates after routing some of them as local calls, a
three-judge bench of the Supreme Court headed by Chief Justice
S.H. Kapadia said in New Delhi today. The court told the
government to calculate the amount the company may have to pay
as compensation and penalty, according to Maninder Singh, an
advocate for the government.  “Investors will remain nervous till the company gives
clarity on the subject,” said  Deven Choksey , chief executive
officer of K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.
“They should be forthcoming but they have been silent.”  The Supreme Court today ordered Reliance Communications to
pay more for calls made in 2004, overturning a ruling the
Telecom Disputes Settlement & Appellate Tribunal made in the
company’s favor. The ruling came in response to an appeal filed
by the state-owned phone company Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd.  Reliance Communications shouldn’t be penalized for the act
of “miscreants,” who made the calls, C.S. Vaidyanathan, the
company’s lawyer said in court today. Bharat Sanchar has said
Reliance Communications should pay 99 million rupees ($2.15
million) for the calls including interest.  Gaurav Wahi , a spokesman for Mumbai-based Reliance
Communications, declined to comment.  The company’s shares have slumped 26 percent this year
compared with a 11 percent gain for the benchmark  Sensex  Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
PS Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net 
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 