-- Return of Estate Tax Looms as Final Impediment to Extending Bush Tax Cuts
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-29T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/return-of-estate-tax-looms-as-final-impediment-to-extending-bush-tax-cuts.html
Ending the uncertainty over
extending Bush-era tax cuts may rest on resolving a decade-long
debate over death and taxes.  The federal levy on estates is set to increase the most of
all as tax cuts expire Jan. 1, jumping from zero to 55 percent
for fortunes worth more than $1 million at death. President
 Barack Obama  and Democrats in Congress barely mention it as they
spar with Republicans over whether to keep income-tax reductions
for top earners.  A new tax on multimillion-dollar estates may emerge as the
final hurdle to a deal that preserves most or all of former
President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts, analysts said. Congress has
unsuccessfully sought at least a half-dozen times to resolve the
issue since 2000, including an abandoned effort last December to
prevent the estate tax’s expiration.  “The history on the estate tax is every time there’s
almost an agreement someone leaves the table in the belief
they’ll get a better deal next time,” said  Clinton Stretch , a
managing principal at the Washington consulting firm Deloitte
Tax LLP.  With Obama planning to meet with bipartisan congressional
leaders at the White House tomorrow, three main factions have
formed in the Senate, none of which has the 60 votes needed to
advance an estate-tax proposal. One includes Republicans such as
South Carolina’s  Jim DeMint  who favor  permanent repeal . Another
is led by Democrats including Majority Leader  Harry Reid  who
support a top rate of 45 percent that would apply after a $3.5
million tax-free allowance.  Moral Issue  A third faction, led by Arizona Republican  Jon Kyl  and
Arkansas Democrat  Blanche Lincoln  and embraced by Republican
leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, backs setting the top rate
at 35 percent after a $5 million exemption.  Forging an agreement has proven more complicated than
splitting the difference on the numbers because this has been
cast as a moral issue, said Lee Farris, senior organizer on
estate-tax policy for  United for a Fair Economy , a Boston-based
group that advocates reinstating the estate tax.  Opponents criticize the estate tax as an unfair levy that
destroys family businesses while proponents of the tax, who
include billionaires  Warren Buffett  and  Bill Gates , view it as
essential to preserving meritocracy in U.S. society. That
argument has gained steam this past year with the deaths of at
least five U.S. billionaires, including New York Yankees owner
 George Steinbrenner .  “People are more dug in on their estate-tax positions on
both sides than they are on the other positions,” Farris said.  Central Feature  The one-year repeal of the tax in 2010 was a central
feature of the Bush tax cuts. It was repealed for only one year
because a deal made in 2001 between Republicans and  deficit -wary
Democrats gradually reduced the tax through 2009 before it was
repealed. The same bargain placed the Dec. 31, 2010, expiration
date on all of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts with which Obama and
Congress are now wrestling.  The repeal also was the pinnacle for business groups and
anti-tax activist organizations such as the  American Family
Business Institute  and Americans for Tax Reform.  In the past year trade groups such as the  National
Federation of Independent Business  and the  National Association
of Manufacturers , alarmed by the possibility of a 55 percent
rate in 2011, have pivoted toward urging lawmakers to adopt the
approach favored by Kyl and Lincoln. Though Lincoln lost her bid
for re-election on Nov. 2, she says she still backs the proposal
to set a top rate of 35 percent after a $5 million exemption.  Separate Laws  The business groups have been frustrated with a sequence of
three separate estate-tax laws starting in 2009, when the first
$3.5 million of an individual’s estate passed to heirs tax-free
before a 45 percent rate kicked in. The Congressional Research
Service says using those parameters in 2011 would subject 0.25
percent of U.S. estates to any tax in 2011 and generate $18.1
billion in revenue.  By contrast, a 55 percent top rate, with a $1 million
exclusion, would affect 1.76 percent of estates and generate
$34.4 billion in revenue, the CRS said. That’s enough to fund
the departments of Labor and State. The Kyl-Lincoln approach
would subject just 0.14 percent of estates to any tax and
generate $11.2 billion, according to the CRS.  The anti-tax groups say they will continue to pressure
lawmakers for repeal.  “What we would very much like to see is an extension of
death taxes where they are right now, see an extension of the
zero rate,” said Dick Patten, president of the group founded by
Alabama lawyer Harold Apolinsky and funded heavily by investment
banker  Raymond Harbert , the son of a billionaire heiress.  The group refers to the levy as the “death tax,” even
though 99 percent of U.S. residents don’t accrue a large enough
fortune in their lifetime to pay it.  Most lawmakers likely will be wary of setting a tax-free
allowance at $1 million, when it was $3.5 million only a year
ago, said  Jade West , a lobbyist for the  National Association of
Wholesaler-Distributors . “It doesn’t take a lot to get to a
million.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  