-- Tribune Judge May Rewrite Bankruptcy Documents If Creditors Keep Feuding
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-11-29T23:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/tribune-judge-may-rewrite-reorganization-documents-update1-.html
Tribune Co. ’s bankruptcy judge
threatened to take over drafting reorganization documents for
the publisher unless four groups of creditors stop bickering
over wording in the materials.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey  in Wilmington,
Delaware, told warring groups of banks, hedge funds and other
investors that he may rewrite their disclosure statements for
the company’s four competing reorganization plans.  “I will do it myself if we can’t get to a place where I’m
satisfied,” Carey said at a hearing today.  The judge must approve the statements before Tribune
 creditors  vote on the proposals. Carey will consider the votes
when he holds a hearing in March to approve one of the plans.  The statements describe how each of the groups would
reorganize and split ownership of the Chicago-based newspaper
and television company. The documents are designed to help
creditors decide how to vote.  After listening to attorneys for the groups argue for about
six hours, Carey ordered them to change some of the wording in
their disclosures and resubmit them later this week. He
scheduled a hearing for Dec. 6 to make a final ruling about
whether the proposals contain enough information to be sent to
creditors for a vote.  Unsecured Creditors  Carey also gave the official committee of unsecured
creditors permission to sue current and former officers of the
company to claw back past payments related to bonuses and stock
options. Carey also gave the committee permission to sue lawyers
and financial advisors involved in the company’s bankruptcy
filing to try to recover fees they were paid.  The four plans have been offered by competing hedge funds
that disagree on how to resolve allegations that the company’s
2007 leveraged buyout, which added more than $8 billion to
Tribune’s  debt , caused the company’s bankruptcy and didn’t
benefit anyone except shareholders and real estate billionaire
 Sam Zell , who led the buyout.  On July 27 bankruptcy examiner  Kenneth N. Klee  released a
report that bolstered the position of lower-ranking creditors.
Those creditors, including noteholders owed $1.2 billion, want
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and the other buyout lenders to lose their
position as first-to-be repaid because of the 2007 transaction.  Tribune owes the hedge funds, lenders and other creditors
about $12 billion. Most of that debt will be wiped out under all
of the  reorganization  proposals in exchange for stock, cash and
new loans.  JPMorgan, Oaktree  The plan proposed by Tribune is backed by JPMorgan and
hedge-fund operators Angelo Gordon & Co. and  Oaktree Capital
Management LP . Their proposal is also backed by the majority of
a panel of unsecured creditors.  Aurelius Capital Management LP, a hedge fund led by
investor  Mark Brodsky , is sponsoring a proposal along with other
pre-buyout bondholders who are among Tribune’s lowest-ranking
creditors.  A third plan is sponsored by hedge-fund manager King Street
Capital LP. The fourth is backed by a dissident group of senior
lenders who have broken with JPMorgan.  The bankruptcy has become a “four-ring circus,”  David LeMay , an attorney for the official committee of unsecured
creditors, told the judge today. “There are more plans in this
case than I have ever seen in my life,” said LeMay, a partner
at Chadbourne & Parke LLP in New York.  Exit From Bankruptcy  All the plans would let the company’s newspapers and
television stations leave bankruptcy while lawsuits related to
the  buyout  go forward. They differ in how $6.75 billion worth of
stock, cash and a new term loan is to be divided among the
creditors and lenders.  Tribune owns the Chicago Tribune and the Los Angeles Times,
as well as TV and radio stations and stakes in cable channels.
As part of its bankruptcy, the company sold most of its stake in
the Chicago Cubs Major League Baseball team.  Under Tribune’s plan, some targets of the lawsuits,
including JPMorgan, would be released from legal liability for
their actions related to the buyout.  Klee concluded in his report that the second part of the
two-stage buyout was an intentional fraudulent transfer because
it added more debt to Tribune than it could handle and benefited
only shareholders, Zell and the banks that organized the loans.  Klee found that various parties involved in the buyout
acted in bad faith. Creditors are unlikely to win damages from
Zell, according to the report.  Zell’s attorney, David J. Bradford, said today in court
that his client, who has called the buyout “the deal from
hell,” was exonerated by the Klee report.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 