-- Rio Troops Restore Peace as Crime Stronghold Crumbles After 30-Year Rule
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 2010-11-29T14:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/rio-troops-restore-peace-as-crime-stronghold-crumbles-after-30-year-rule.html
Rio de Janeiro police and armed
forces restored peace after a week of attacks on cars and
shootings in slums as the city’s biggest organized crime
stronghold crumbled.  A 2,700-strong security force ended three decades of crime
rule in the dozen hillside shanty towns known as  Complexo do
Alemao . Officers placed a Brazilian flag on a hilltop to mark
their victory yesterday after two days of shootings and
residents waved white flags among Army tanks to celebrate.
Police are searching the 30,000 houses in the slums to hunt down
fugitive drug leaders, while others surrender.  The biggest security operation in Brazil’s history is part
of a drive to restore order in Rio slums, or favelas, ahead of
the 2014 soccer World Cup and the 2016 summer Olympics. In the
southern  beachside areas  of Ipanema and Copacabana, tourists and
residents took to the sand to play soccer, sunbathe and swim
over the weekend as more than 20,000 police secured the streets.  “Retaking the territory of Complexo do Alemao is a crucial
and decisive step in the public security policies that we
devised for Rio de Janeiro,” Rio State Governor  Sergio Cabral 
said in a statement on the state government’s website.  The takeover of the area was the first time state and
federal police joined forces with the Army and Navy to fight
crime in Rio slums.  President Luiz Inacio  Lula da Silva  last week authorized
armed forces to deploy tanks, helicopters and 800 soldiers to
Complexo do Alemao. The troops are patrolling the area to
prevent criminals from escaping and reinforcing police.  Government Support  President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  may meet Cabral tomorrow to
discuss security in Rio. She plans to continue to support the
state’s police force in its effort to fight organized crime, an
official at Rousseff’s press office said in Brasilia today.  Last week gangs set about 100  cars and buses  on fire across
the city and conflicts claimed at least 35 lives. The attacks
included two scorched cars in Ipanema and Copacabana and a bus
in the city center.  Police have arrested more than 200 people in the past week,
seizing homemade bombs, grenades, guns, dynamite and bottles
filled with gasoline. Authorities have sent 20 drug traffic
leaders to a maximum security prison in Brazil’s southern Parana
state in the past few days.  Officers searching Complexo do Alemao found about 40 metric
tons of marijuana and 200 kilograms (440 pounds) of cocaine,
according to police reports.  Fifty Cent  Eliseu Felicio de Sousa, a drug leader who was convicted of
participation in the killing of Globo TV reporter  Tim Lopes ,
surrendered to police when found in a hiding place yesterday.
Lopes was scorched to death in 2002 in the neighboring slum of
Vila Cruzeiro, which police took over four days ago before
moving into Complexo do Alemao.  The mother of 25-year-old trafficker Diego Raimundo Santos,
nicknamed ‘50’ because he’s a fan of U.S. rapper Fifty Cent,
walked him to a nearby police department to turn himself in
before police squads moved further into the slums.  Rio’s Special Police Operations Squad, also known as Bope,
is still searching the houses and street of Complexo do Alemao
and looking for criminals including the area’s main drug chief,
known as Pezao, or Big Foot.  TV showed children swimming in the rooftop pool of a
deserted three-storey home that police believe to have been the
residence of a drug leader.  ‘Elite Squad’  Bope started moving into Complexo do Alemao three days ago
under gunfire after occupying neighboring Vila Cruzeiro the
previous day. Hundreds of criminals from Vila Cruzeiro had fled
to Complexo do Alemao.  Bope, depicted by Brazilian director  Jose Padilha  in his
2007 film “Elite Squad” and a sequel released this year, is
using military weaponry including snipers and  Navy tanks  to
overpower the traffickers.  Cabral’s government has restored security at 15 favelas in
the past two years and set up 12 police departments in these
communities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Caminada  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  