-- Spain Is `Big Elephant' in Room After Ireland, Roubini Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   A l a n   C r o s b y
-- 2010-11-29T17:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/roubini-says-portugal-quite-likely-to-need-funding-update1-.html
Spain is the “big elephant” in the
European debt crisis because there may not be enough money to
bail out the Iberian nation, said Nouriel Roubini , the New York
University professor who predicted the global financial crisis.  Investor concern has shifted to Spain and Portugal since
yesterday, when European governments sought to bolster the euro
by giving Ireland an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package
and diluting proposals that would have forced bondholders to
bear some costs of future bailouts.  “It is quite likely that Portugal” will be next in line
for a financial assistance, Roubini said today in Prague at a
conference of chief executive officers sponsored by ING Groep
NV. “The big elephant in the room is not Portugal but, of
course, it’s Spain. There is not enough official money to bail
out Spain if trouble occurs.”  HSBC Holdings Plc estimates Spain may need 351 billion
euros over three years. The  European Union  may be able to deploy
only 255 billion euros of the 440 billion-euro European
Financial Stability Facility, according to Nomura International
Plc. That’s because the bailout fund is financed by bonds, and
governments agreed to set aside cash and link lending to the
creditworthiness of donors to secure a AAA rating.  The cost of insuring the debt of Spain, which has the
fourth-largest euro-region economy, and Portugal soared to
record-high levels today, according to CMA prices for credit-
default swaps. Contracts on Spain climbed 14 basis points to 336
while Portugal rose 23 basis points to 524.  ‘Not Stressful Enough’  Spain, which has the euro region’s third-highest budget
deficit, said last week it wouldn’t adopt new measures to
protect itself from the worsening debt crisis after cutting the
central government shortfall by almost 50 percent and
controlling regional spending.  Spanish lenders have 181 billion euros of “troubled
exposure” to construction and real estate after a decade-long
property boom collapsed, according to the Bank of Spain. Five
Spanish lenders failed stress tests in July.  “In Spain, in my view, the eventual fiscal costs of
cleaning up the financial system are going to be much larger
than have been so far estimated by the government,” Roubini
said. “As we saw, the stress tests were not stressful enough,
if not a total fudge.”  As the number of countries needing bailouts or financing
help grows, Roubini said sovereign debt, and in turn
“supranational debt,” will increase as well.  ‘Debt Restructuring’  “At some point there might be debt restructuring that
become inevitable for the sovereigns and also those financial
institutions” that are providing funds, Roubini said. The
International Monetary Fund may be one such institution, he
said.  Roubini in 2006 predicted the U.S. economy was “headed
toward a serious slowdown” because of the slump in the housing
market, high oil prices and the delayed impact of interest-rate
increases. He hasn’t always been right. In October 2008 Roubini
said he saw “significant downside risks to equity markets,”
failing to anticipate the 76 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index since its March 2009 low.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s second round of asset purchases,
known as quantitative easing, or QE2, may spark asset inflation
and is unlikely to add little more than a few tenths of a
percentage point to gross domestic product.  The Federal Reserve said Nov. 3 it would buy $600 billion
of assets top spur economic growth. During the first round of
quantitative easing, it bought $1.725 trillion of government and
mortgage bonds between November 2008 and March 2010.  “Even the QE2 is not sufficient to restore growth to the
trend level,” he said. “The problems of the economy are not
problems of liquidity, but problems of credit insolvency, and
therefore monetary policy cannot resolve this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Crosby  in Prague at 
 Acrosby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  