-- Rubicon Climbs After Reporting 4 Million-Ounce Gold Estimate in Ontario
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-11-29T21:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/rubicon-climbs-after-reporting-4-million-ounce-gold-estimate-in-ontario.html
Rubicon Minerals Corp. , a Canadian
gold explorer, rose the most in more than three years after
saying part of its Phoenix Gold Project in Ontario may contain 4
million ounces of the metal.  Rubicon  climbed  C$1.53, or 33 percent, to C$6.13 at 4:33
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading, the biggest gain since
Feb. 26, 2007. The closing price was the highest since the
Vancouver-based company’s stock started trading in November
1997.  Rubicon is exploring near Goldcorp Inc.’s Red Lake
mine. The F2 Gold System within the Phoenix project has an
estimated inferred resource of 4 million ounces of gold, Rubicon
said today in a statement. The results indicate a grade of 20.1
grams (0.59 ounce) of gold per ton of rock, the company said.  “This is very material for Rubicon,”  Barry Allan , a
Toronto-based analyst at Mackie Research Capital Corp., said in
a telephone interview. “Expectations on the street were far
below the inferred resource that Rubicon has come up with.”
Allan said he had expected about 3 million ounces.  Mining companies make inferred estimates based on data from
test work such as drilling.  “This is a very high grade compared to other projects
around the world,” Rubicon Chief Executive Officer  David Adamson  said today in a telephone interview. “This is a
company-making asset.”  Rubicon plans to release the results of a bulk sample of
ore from the deposit before the end of the first quarter,
Adamson said.  “The current 4.01 million ounce inferred gold resource may
be only a small part of the overall gold potential of the F2
Gold System,” Adamson said in the statement, citing analysis by
Geoex Ltd., which assessed the latest exploration results.  The company’s latest exploration results are from drilling
up to July 31, the company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 