-- Russia Sought Israeli Drone Technology to Stop Iran Arms Deal, Leak Shows
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-11-29T17:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/russia-sought-israeli-drone-technology-to-stop-iran-arms-deal-leak-shows.html
Russia told Israel it would cancel
the sale of anti-aircraft missiles to Iran in return for access
to advanced Israeli drone technology, according to a U.S.
diplomatic cable provided to Le Monde by WikiLeaks.org.  Russia also offered $1 billion for the technology, Israeli
Defense Ministry official  Amos Gilad  said during a Dec. 1, 2009,
meeting with U.S. Undersecretary of State Ellen Tauscher,
Paris-based Le Monde reported today, citing the cable sent by an
unidentified U.S. diplomat.  Israel declined to provide Russia with its latest unmanned
aircraft, saying it was concerned the technology would end up in
Chinese hands, Gilad said, according to Le Monde. Russia in
September canceled an $800 million contract to supply an S-300
air-defense battery to Iran after the United Nations Security
Council imposed new sanctions against the Persian Gulf nation.   WikiLeaks , a nonprofit group that releases information the
government wants to keep confidential, has begun posting on its
website what it says are more than 250,000 U.S. State Department
documents written from December 1966 to February 2010.
Department spokeswoman Nicole Thompson declined to confirm
information in the documents, saying it is the agency’s policy
not to comment on specific leaked materials.  Mark Regev , a spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , declined to comment when asked about the reported
Russian offer. Netanyahu said at a news conference in Tel Aviv
today that Israel “has not been damaged at all” by the
material released by WikiLeaks.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s administration found
“nothing interesting” in the cables published by WikiLeaks,
Interfax cited Medvedev spokeswoman  Natalya Timakova  as saying.
Igor Yevdokimov at the Foreign Ministry’s press service said he
couldn’t comment on the WikiLeaks documents before tomorrow.  UN Sanctions  The Kremlin said in June that the S-300s were covered by
the new UN sanctions, which banned sales of weaponry including
fighter jets, attack helicopters, warships or missiles.  Delivery of the S-300 missiles would “represent a
significant increase in the defense capability of Iranian
forces,” U.S. Army General  David Petraeus  told the Senate Armed
Services Committee on March 16, when he was commander of all
U.S. forces in the Middle East and Central Asia.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  signed a defense
cooperation agreement with Russia on Sept. 6. Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said at the time that Russia had already bought
Israeli drones and it was interested in equipping the unmanned
planes with Russian laser technology.  WikiLeaks provided advance access to the documents to news
organizations including Le Monde, The New York Times, the
London-based Guardian, Madrid-based El Pais and Hamburg-based
Der Spiegel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  