-- Samsung Securities Hires More Brokers, Executives to Bolster Asia Business
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2010-11-29T04:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/samsung-securities-hires-more-brokers-executives-to-bolster-asia-business.html
Samsung Securities Co. , the
brokerage unit of South Korea’s largest family-run conglomerate,
hired  Ben Yeoh  to head equity sales in Singapore as the company
seeks to bolster its Asian business.  Yeoh had previously worked for Macquarie Group Ltd. where
he was engaged in Asian institutional equity sales in Singapore,
 Kim Jin Ho , a Seoul-based spokesman, said by phone today. Yeoh
will be based in Hong Kong until Samsung Securities opens its
Singapore business in the first half of next year. Samsung also
hired Winston Loke as chief operating officer for its Asia
Pacific institutional business, according to Kim.  The firm is hiring in Asia, home to the world’s fastest-
growing major economies, at the same time as  Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. , Daiwa Securities Group Inc. and London-based
Standard Chartered Plc. Asia’s economy could be as large as
those of the United States and European Union combined by 2015,
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss- Kahn  said on Oct. 18.  Samsung Securities’ hiring plans will help it achieve the
goal of becoming a “regional player” by 2015, Chief Executive
Officer  Park Chun Hyeon , said in an interview earlier this
month. The brokerage, an affiliate of  Samsung Electronics Co. ,
expects its overseas units to derive more than 10 percent of its
total net revenue in 2013, compared with 4 percent currently,
Park said.  Mike Oyson  joined to cover equity sales in North America,
Samsung Securities’ Kim said. Oyson has 15 years of industry
experience including a stint at Deutsche Bank AG as head of
regional sales in Hong Kong, he said.  Josephine Orgill and Kate Davies also joined Samsung
Securities to head client relationship management and corporate
access for global equities, respectively, while  Niral Maru  was
hired as Asia-Pacific head of legal and compliance, Kim said.  Samsung Securities’ shares fell 1.1 percent to 64,500 won
as of 1:20 p.m. in Seoul today. The stock has advanced 1.9
percent this year, compared with a 13 percent gain in the
benchmark  Kospi  stock index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net 
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net .
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 