-- Seagate Shares Decline 5% After Company Ended Talks to Be Taken Private
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-11-30T21:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/seagate-cancels-talks-with-private-equity-firms-plans-2-billion-buyback.html
Seagate Technology Plc , the world’s
largest maker of disk drives, fell 3.3 percent on the Nasdaq
Stock Market after the company ended talks to be taken private.  “Management and the board have chosen to cease discussions
concerning a private equity-led leveraged buyout,” Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Luczo  said yesterday in a statement.  Talks with TPG Capital collapsed after the buyout firm
wasn’t able to find other partners to raise enough equity
financing for the takeover, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who declined to be identified because the
negotiations were private. The diminishing need for computer
disk drives may have made a Seagate deal less attractive to some
buyers, said  Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.  “If you’re private-equity money and need to think about
the next five to seven years, that likely made them a little
more reluctant to take the bid higher,” said the San Francisco-
based analyst, who  rates  Seagate shares “neutral” and doesn’t
own any.  Seagate  shares dropped 45 cents to $13.41 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq.  The failed buyout attempt is the second for  Seagate  this
year. TPG restarted takeover discussions with the company after
an earlier proposal with Silver Lake broke down, people familiar
with the matter said earlier this year.  KKR & Co.  and Bain
Capital LLC were interested in the new deal, though KKR signaled
in October that it might drop out, the people said.  Share Buyback  In its statement yesterday, Seagate also authorized the
 repurchase  of as much as $2 billion of its stock.  “Given the strong debt markets, improving business
conditions and other financing options, Seagate has initiated a
plan to further optimize its capital structure to maximize
shareholder returns,” Luczo said.  The disk-drive maker may be a difficult candidate for a
leveraged buyout because it faces high capital costs and many
customers are relying on a different kind of memory, said  Rajesh Ghai , an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC. Apple Inc.’s iPad tablet
computer uses flash-memory storage instead of a hard disk, and
more personal-computer users are accessing their applications
and data over the Internet, making local storage less important.  Still, most PCs continue to rely on disk drives, and
Seagate is predicting improving demand for the devices. Revenue
in the  current quarter  will be at least $2.7 billion, Seagate
said in the statement. That tops the $2.66 billion estimated by
analysts in a  Bloomberg survey .  High Premium?  Private-equity buyers may have been reluctant to pay a high
premium for Seagate, said  Matt Bryson , an analyst at Avian
Securities LLC in Boston, who has a neutral rating on Seagate
shares and doesn’t own them. The stock has tumbled 26 percent
this year, even as sales and profit rebounds from the recession.  “If you think about a private-equity firm where they have
to assume a risk premium, the payback has to be taking Seagate
public again,” Bryson said. “How do you justify anything above
$15 or $16?”  The company said Oct. 14 that it was in talks to be taken
private, without identifying the parties involved. A deal would
have been Seagate’s second leveraged buyout in a decade.  Another concern is competition from rivals such as  Western
Digital Corp. , which threatens to squeeze profit. Excluding some
costs, earnings were 37 cents last quarter, compared with the
46-cent average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales  rose
1.3 percent to $2.7 billion.  “The free cash flow for a business is going to be
extremely uncertain going forward,” said Ghai, who is based in
San Francisco. He has a “hold” rating on Seagate shares and
doesn’t own them himself. The company was unlikely to generate
enough cash to pay down the  debt  it would take on in a leveraged
buyout, Ghai said.  “The private equity investors took a look at the outlook
for the industry, which is pretty bleak,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  