-- Democrats to Test Republicans' Mettle on Tax-Cut Votes Starting This Week
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-30T15:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/senate-to-vote-on-extending-middle-class-tax-cut-by-next-week-baucus-says.html
Congressional Democrats are ready to
test Republican resolve on taxes this week by forcing showdown
votes on their proposal to extend middle-class tax cuts.  U.S. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  will schedule a vote this
week on legislation that would retain lower tax rates and
increased credits that apply to the first $250,000 of a married
couple’s gross income or $200,000 for a single person, said her
assistant, Maryland Democrat  Chris Van Hollen .  The Senate will vote “by next week” on Democrats’
proposal to extend middle-income tax cuts, Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus  told reporters yesterday.  “There should be an early vote on middle-income tax cuts”
before the Senate considers alternatives on Bush-era tax cuts
set to expire on Dec. 31, said Baucus, a Montana Democrat. The
vote’s timing will depend on the rest of the Senate’s agenda, he
said.  Those statements signal a willingness by Democrats to see
how far Republicans will hold out for extensions of tax cuts
benefiting all taxpayers, including those with higher incomes.  Virginia Representative  Eric Cantor , the second-ranking
House Republican, said he would tell his party’s lawmakers to
oppose the tax bill Pelosi supports because it doesn’t include
tax cuts for all Americans.  “We don’t feel that there should be anyone suffering a
tax-rate increase right now while we’ve got nearly 10 percent
unemployment,” he said on Bloomberg Television in Washington.  ‘Boxing Match’  The debate will begin in earnest today at the White House
when congressional leaders meet with President  Barack Obama ,
after which he is scheduled to make a public statement at 12:20
p.m. Washington time. The meeting will include Republicans who
consider higher marginal tax increases a burden on small
businesses. Obama, meanwhile, says the country can’t afford to
borrow $700 billion to extend lower tax rates for top earners.  “This is really a touch-the-gloves moment,” said  John Feehery , president of QGA Communications, who was a
communications adviser to former House Speaker  Dennis Hastert ,
an Illinois Republican. “This is the first time the Republicans
and the president are going to start a boxing match that’s going
to go more than 13 rounds. While there’s not a lot of time, they
are still going to be cautious as they engage each other.”  Cantor said there may be some progress.  “It’s high time we get this resolved, and I’m hoping
today’s meeting will be the beginning of a breakthrough,” he
said.  ‘Conversation’  At the White House yesterday, Spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said
the issue won’t be resolved quickly.  “I think this is the beginning of a conversation,” Gibbs
told reporters. “I don’t think this will be the last
conversation that this group has on taxes this year.”  House Minority Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio previously said
he would vote for legislation capping the extension of tax cuts
at $250,000 if that was the only option. He’s now saying
otherwise.  “We made a pledge to America to permanently stop all of
the tax hikes, and that’s what we’ll fight for,” said  Michael Steel , a Boehner spokesman.  Rates Would Rise  Unless Congress acts by Dec. 31, marginal income tax rates
will rise across the board, tax credits that benefit families
will be slashed, and rates on capital gains and dividends will
increase. In addition, a federal tax on estates worth more than
$1 million will be resurrected after expiring for 2010.  Expiration of the tax cuts enacted in President  George W. Bush ’s administration would add $2,600 annually to the tax
burden of a median-income family earning about $70,000 a year,
according to  Clint Stretch , managing principal at the consulting
firm Deloitte Tax LLP in Washington.  Extending the tax cuts permanently would cost the
government $5 trillion in revenue and interest on the debt over
the next decade, the Congressional Research Service estimated in
October.  Failure to extend all the tax cuts would subtract 1
percentage point from growth in the gross domestic product,
according to an estimate released in November by Barclays
Capital, reducing projected growth in 2011 from 2.8 percent to
1.8 percent, with “sharply lower growth” in the first quarter.  GDP Growth Effect  The 2.8 percent growth estimate assumes the cuts for
higher-income taxpayers would expire. If they are extended, the
Barclay’s estimate is for 3 percent GDP growth in 20l1.  Votes in the Senate on the competing proposals would test
whether either party has the 60 votes needed to overcome
procedural hurdles. Neither plan is likely to garner that many
votes and get through the Senate, senators have said.  A rejection of both measures would give Senate leaders a
clearer picture of where their members stand as they begin
negotiations on compromise plans.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, the senate’s No. 2
Democrat, said negotiations over extending the tax cuts also
will include prolonging emergency unemployment benefits and
other tax credits.  “I want to put a couple other things on the table,”
Durbin said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Nov. 28. “We do have
unemployment running out,” and “I also want to make sure the
earned-income tax credit, the childcare tax credit, and the
‘Making Work Pay’ tax credit are part” of the discussion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net 
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  