-- Serbia's Planned 2011 Budget Cuts Won't Kill Recovery, IMF Official Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-11-29T13:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/serbia-s-planned-2011-budget-cuts-won-t-kill-recovery-imf-official-says.html
Serbia’s planned reduction in its
fiscal deficit will help restore investor confidence in the
Balkan nation and underpin economic recovery, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  “It will reassure the market and investors that the fiscal
house is in order,”  Bogdan Lissovolik , the IMF’s resident
representative, said today in a telephone interview. The cuts
are a “balancing act that will not kill the recovery.”  Serbia on Nov. 26 committed to cutting its 2011 budget gap
to 4.1 percent of gross domestic product from this year’s 4.8
percent of GDP. The country of 7.3 million people is currently
relying on a 3 billion-euro ($3.98 billion) IMF program,
originally approved to offset risks to its balance of payment
and to defend the dinar.  The nation was the first western Balkan country to seek IMF
support in late 2008 to offset capital flight in the wake of the
global financial crisis. The government in Belgrade is
forecasting growth of as much as 3 percent next year compared
with neighboring Croatia and Romania, which are struggling to
emerge from recession.  The IMF does not yet know if Serbia will seek a follow-up
loan program with the Washington D.C.-based lender, Lissovolik
said. The probability is “very high” that that the IMF will
continue to monitor the country as Serbia has borrowed more than
100 percent of its quota, he said.  Financing Alternatives  Serbia should look for cheaper financing from institutions
such as the World Bank or the European Union to plug its 2011
budget holes as it has started to fail to raise funding in the
local debt market, the IMF official said. Serbia may also
consider using asset sales to finance the gap, he said.  To make the government’s debt more attractive, authorities
could look into phasing out subsidized dinar loans to “prompt
banks again to look at Serbian T-bills.” The government has
struggled to borrow in the local market since June with rising
inflation and the dinar weakness discouraging investors from
buying short-term government debt.  The IMF mission will return to Belgrade in February for a
final review of Serbia’s 2010 compliance with targets set under
the loan program, which expires in April.  A key focus will be a “corporate debt restructuring law”
aimed at addressing almost 200 billion dinars ($2.47 billion) in
“distressed corporate debt”, he said. Non-performing loans in
the Serbian corporate sector stood at 25 percent of total loans
and the new law should offer “a safety valve” to creditors
giving them an opportunity to collect debt other than block the
debtors’ accounts, Lissovolik said.  The IMF sees the National Bank of Serbia having sufficient
buffers to defend the dinar, after the Net Foreign Asset target
has been revised down to 4 billion euros from 4.6 billion euros
for the end of 2010, Lissovolik said. Net Foreign Assets or the
net foreign-exchange reserves of the central bank, excluding the
funds owned by banks, stood at 4.9 billion euros in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  