-- Shrinking Corporate Debt Means No Faith in Economic Boom: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-11-29T16:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/shrinking-corporate-debt-means-no-faith-in-economic-boom-argentina-credit.html
Argentine companies from Telecom
Argentina SA to Siderar SAIC are reducing debt at the fastest
pace in Latin America and paring investment on concern that the
country’s economic expansion may falter.  Total long-term obligations owed by the 16 most-traded
Argentine companies tracked by Bloomberg fell 27 percent in the
past year to $3.19 billion, while capital expenditures dropped
39 percent to $1.57 billion. Corporate debt in Brazil has
increased 54 percent to $257.8 billion in the past year, while
in Mexico it rose 21 percent to $58.6 billion. Venezuela is the
only other Latin American nation that saw debt decline in the
period, sliding 2 percent to $2.2 billion.  Ten of the 16 most-traded Argentine  companies  cut leverage
and 11 trimmed capital spending, even as a record soybean
harvest spurs the fastest growth among major emerging markets
this year, the data show.  Inflation  data that some economists
say isn’t accurate and price controls that limit profits are
convincing companies not to invest in the country, said  Bevan Rosenbloom , an analyst at RBS Securities Inc.  “If there isn’t clarity, companies aren’t going to raise
cash to invest in the future,” Rosenbloom said in a telephone
interview. “They’re going to hoard cash and run as efficiently
as possible, but wait until later to try to sell bonds.”  The 16 Argentine companies tracked by Bloomberg had $4.35
billion in total outstanding long-term debt in the year-earlier
period ended Nov. 26, 2009. Telecom Argentina, based in Buenos
Aires, had $15.3 million in debt as of the end of last week,
compared with $199.2 million a year ago. Buenos Aires-based
Siderar cut its debt 91 percent to $4.4 million in the period.  Argentine Yields  A Siderar official, who asked not to be named in accordance
with company policy, declined to comment. A Telecom Argentina
official said in an e-mailed statement that the company’s parent
has about $216 million in debt and that will decline to about
$40 million by yearend.  Companies are trimming debt as Argentine borrowing costs
remain the highest in emerging markets after Venezuela and
Ecuador. The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Argentine
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries dropped 179 basis points
during the past year to 521 at the end of last week, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Indexes. The average yield on
Argentine government bonds, the benchmark for companies, fell to
8.82 percent last week from 11.53 percent in June, when
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  restructured $12.2
billion of defaulted debt.  Warrants linked to economic growth fell 0.25 cent to 13.25
cents at 11:34 a.m. New York time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The peso slid 0.2 percent today to 3.9841 per dollar.  Credit Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps was little changed at
659 on Nov. 26, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Speculation that the government may be underreporting
inflation may be keeping companies from selling bonds and
stepping up investment, said  Alberto Ramos , an economist with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The government reported Nov. 12 that
annual consumer prices rose 11.1 percent during October, less
than half of the rate estimated by New York-based Goldman Sachs.  “Inflation is a variable that traditionally clouds the
investment outlook,” Ramos said in a telephone interview from
New York. “If corporations aren’t investing a lot, the need to
raise leverage or external funds is probably limited as well.”  Inflation Concern  Argentine prices will rise by at least 25 percent this year
and next, Ramos said. The economy will likely grow by about 9
percent in 2010 and at least 5 percent in 2011, he said.  Government price caps on crude and public utility rates
remain a deterrent for companies, according to Rosenbloom and
Ramos. Argentina put price caps in place in 2002, during the
country’s worst economic crisis that led to a record $95 billion
default in December of the previous year.  Fernandez and  Nestor Kirchner , her late husband and
predecessor as president, maintained the controls and, under
current regulations, Argentina taxes oil companies on any amount
of oil they sell above $50 a barrel. Crude rose to a two-year
high of $88.63 in intraday trading on Nov. 11.  While overall corporate debt is declining, Argentine
companies are selling the most bonds since 2007 to take
advantage of falling yields, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  More Spending  Pan American Energy LLC, the nation’s top oil exporter,
candy maker Arcor SA and real estate developer IRSA Inversiones
y Representaciones SA sold $850 million worth of bonds this year
at yields averaging 9.08 percent.  YPF SA, the Argentine unit of Repsol YPF SA and the
country’s largest oil producer, said this month it will return
to international capital markets after 12 years with a plan to
sell as much as $600 million of bonds.  Pampa Energia SA, the country’s biggest power holding
company, is spending $250 million to boost output at its Loma de
la Lata power plant, Chairman  Marcelo Mindlin  said in a news
conference in the western province of Neuquen on Nov. 25. Fiat
SpA’s Argentine unit is investing $205 million to build a new
model it will sell in Argentina and Brazil as early as March,
Fiat Argentina President  Cristiano Rattazzi  said in a Nov. 17
interview in Buenos Aires.  Paying Debt  Telecom Argentina and Siderar posted the biggest declines
in total debt among the 16-most traded companies tracked by
Bloomberg. Telecom Argentina, the country’s second-biggest
telephone company, reported in October 2009 that it paid off all
of the $1.9 billion in debt issued in a 2005 restructuring.  Siderar said in a Nov. 3 earnings statement that during the
first nine months of this year “bank and financial debt
registered a net decline of 153.2 million pesos, mainly related
to the payment of short-term debt.”  Telecom Argentina has “a strong cash position and this
cash will allow us to finance our next dividend payment,” Chief
Financial Officer  Adrian Calaza  said during a Nov. 3 conference
call with analysts, according to a transcript. “At this time we
are not thinking of any debt issue for the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  