-- South Korea's Industrial Output Increased Less Than Estimated in October
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-11-30T01:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/south-korea-s-industrial-output-increased-less-than-estimated-in-october.html
South Korea’s industrial output rose
less than estimated, reducing the case for the central bank to
raise interest rates for a third time by year-end.  Output  advanced 13.5 percent in October from a year earlier,
compared with the median forecast for a 15.1 percent gain in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine economists, a Statistics Korea
report showed in Gwacheon today. Production fell 4.2 percent on
a monthly basis, the third straight decline.  The Bank of Korea will assess the scope for raising
borrowing costs from 2.5 percent at next week’s policy meeting,
as tension with North Korea overshadows Asia’s fourth-largest
economy. The monthly decline in output, the biggest in 22 months,
may fan concern that a rise in the won and cooling global demand
is hurting exports of the nation’s cars and electronic products.  “Today’s report looks bad if you look at its details on the
semiconductor and auto sectors, showing the economic outlook
isn’t bright,” said  Oh Suk Tae , an economist at SC First Bank
Korea Ltd. in Seoul. “It’ll be difficult for the BOK to raise
rates for the time being as the economy is losing momentum.”  Semiconductor output fell 8.7 percent from September, while
production in the automotive sector declined 12.4 percent,
according to today’s data. Chipmakers and car manufacturers cut
output to reduce inventories on expectations that global demand
was unlikely to strengthen for the rest of the year, Statistics
Korea official Jung Gyu Don told reporters in Gwacheon today.  Weakest Level  The won fell 0.2 percent to 1,154.84 per dollar as of 10:16
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
risen 3.2 percent in the past three months, the third-biggest
gainer in Asia. The benchmark  Kospi  stock index rose 0.6 percent.  The currency touched 1,172.50, the weakest level since Sept.
9, after North Korea shelled a South Korean island last week,
killing four people, injuring 20 and heightening tension on the
peninsula. President  Lee Myung Bak  vowed the North would be
“made to pay” for any further provocation in a television
address to the nation yesterday.  Central bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  and the policy board
will probably weigh the impact of the incident at their rate-
setting meeting on December 9. The monetary authority raised
borrowing costs by 0.25 percentage point this month, adding to a
quarter-point increase in July, after inflation breached its 4
percent ceiling in October.  Export Growth  Export  growth, a driver of industrial production,
accelerated to 27.6 percent in October. Overseas shipments
account for about half the economy and have boosted earnings
this year at firms such as  Hyundai Motor Co. , South Korea’s
largest automaker.  Lee’s administration on Nov. 18 supported the revival of a
tax on foreigners investing in the nation’s bonds to curb fund
inflows driving up the won and imperiling export competitiveness.  A  leading index  of economic indicators, which forecasts
business activity, rose 3.4 percent in October from a year
earlier, compared with a 4.9 percent gain in September, today’s
report showed.  Sales of consumer goods climbed 0.2 percent last month from
September and increased 4.2 percent from a year earlier.
Construction orders fell 59.6 percent and investment in
factories advanced 10.2 percent from a year earlier.  South Korea’s economy grew 4.5 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, slowing from a 7.2 percent pace in the
three months through June. The government expects limited
economic impact from the incident with the North and has pledged
to supply ample liquidity to cope with any shocks.  A separate report today showed South Korean manufacturers’
confidence declined to an 11-month low following the rise in the
currency and higher raw material costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  