-- Soybeans Decline for Second Day as Rains Boost Crops in Brazil, Argentina
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-29T20:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/soybeans-decline-for-second-day-as-rains-boost-crops-in-brazil-argentina.html
Soybeans fell for the second
straight session as rain may improve crop development in Brazil
and Argentina, the world’s biggest exporters behind the U.S.  Parts of Brazil got as much as 3 inches (7.6 centimeters)
of rain in the past three days and 85 percent of the production
area will get 0.5 inch to 2.5 inches this week, Commodity
Weather Group LLC said in a report. Storms boosted soil moisture
in central Argentina, while northern areas received scattered
rainfall, the private forecaster said.  “South American weather is improving,” said  Greg Grow ,
the director of agribusiness for Archer Financial Services Inc.
in Chicago. “More rain will be needed next month to maintain
favorable conditions and boost soil moisture in Argentina.”  Soybean futures for January delivery fell 3.5 cents, or 0.3
percent, to close at $12.35 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The price has gained 18 percent this year,
reaching a 26-month high of $13.485 on Nov. 12, as China
imported record supplies from the U.S., the leading grower.  A rally by the dollar also reduced the appeal of raw
materials as an alternative asset and eroded the allure of U.S.
exports, Grow said.  The greenback rose to the highest in more than two months
against the euro after the European Commission said the economy
may weaken next year as budget cuts to stem a mounting debt
crisis hurt consumer demand. Global equities fell after
Ireland’s bailout failed to ease debt concerns in Europe.
Soybeans gained 3.1 percent last week.  “The dollar’s strength will keep pressure on the commodity
markets,” Grow said. “The markets have shifted from buying
weakness to selling strength on rallies.”  Soybeans are the second-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $31.8
billion last year, government figures show. The corn crop was
worth $48.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 