-- SS Guards Patrol, Tanks Rumble in ‘Mathis’ at Bastille: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-11-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/ss-guards-patrol-tanks-rumble-in-mathis-at-bastille-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Adolf Hitler  was disgusted: A naked
soprano in a bathtub praising the joys of central heating was
definitely not his idea of a truly German opera.  Paul Hindemith (1895-1963), the composer of “Neues vom
Tage,” or News of the Day, which premiered at the Berlin Kroll
Opera in 1929, made a bad impression on the future Fuehrer.  “Mathis der Maler,” or Mathis the Painter, arguably
Hindemith’s masterpiece, couldn’t be staged in Nazi Germany,
conductor Wilhelm Furtwaengler’s efforts notwithstanding. Its
premiere took place in 1938 in Zurich. Hindemith emigrated,
became a professor at Yale and eventually a U.S. citizen.  This is the first production of “Mathis” at the  Paris
Opera . It’s also  Christoph Eschenbach ’s house debut.  The opera’s hero is Mathis Neithart (ca. 1460-1528),
popularly known as Mathias Gruenewald, the creator of the great
Isenheim Altarpiece in Colmar, France. Little is known about his
life: He was employed by two successive archbishops of Mainz and
seems to have sympathized with the 1524-26 Peasants’ Revolt and
the new Lutheran doctrine.  Hindemith, who wrote his own libretto, did extensive
research: Most of his characters are historical figures. Yet his
theme -- the doubts and struggles of the artist in a period of
political upheaval -- was certainly topical. For those slow on
the uptake, he included a scene in which Lutheran books are
collected to be burned, an unmistakable allusion to the Nazi
book burning of May 1933.  Red Flags  Olivier Py, the director, and Pierre-Andre Weitz, the set
and costume designer, couldn’t resist the temptation to stress
the Nazi connection: SS guards with German shepherds strut the
stage while a tank moves menacingly in the background.  Are we to understand that the Catholics who refused to
break away from Rome were Fascists? Another anachronism is the
red flags of the rebels: In reality, they carried flags with
their emblem, the Bundschuh, or peasant boot.  Most of the time, Py and Weitz enliven the scene with their
usual shtick -- constantly moving, multistoried metal structures
-- sometimes to dazzling effect. The Isenheim Altarpiece appears
only in silhouette during the prelude.  Following a current trend, a silent character has been
added, a half-naked angel with red wings who busies himself
around the master, a hint at one of the panels of the
altarpiece.  Josef Goebbels , Hitler’s minister of propaganda, dismissed
Hindemith as an “atonal noisemaker.”  Orchestral Nuances  That was nonsense. The musical language of “Mathis” is
deeply embedded in the German tradition, including counterpoint,
Gregorian chant and medieval folk tunes. The opera does have
longueurs and dry patches; it’s more a series of loosely
connected tableaux than a gripping drama.  Eschenbach does wonders to bring the difficult score to
life. The sound of the orchestra is always transparent and
finely nuanced.  Not all the singers are top-drawer, yet the three main
parts are in competent hands:  Matthias Goerne , though short of
heroic heft, performs the title role with all the subtlety of
the lieder singer he is.  Scott MacAllister is an almost over articulate Archbishop
Albrecht, the painter’s patron. He also sings the role in the
recent recording of the work by the  Hamburg Staatsoper .  The best vocal performance is by Melanie Diener as Ursula,
the Protestant heiress who’s in love with Mathis and whom the
Lutherans use as bait to lure the cash-strapped archbishop into
their camp. Here’s a Bruennhilde in the making. Rating: ***.  “Mathis der Maler” is at the Bastille Opera, Paris,
through Dec. 6.  Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr  or +33-1-7125-2423.  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 