-- Standard Chartered to Hire 1,800 for Trading Division in Next Three Years
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-11-29T10:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/standard-chartered-to-double-trading-underwriting-unit-with-1-800-hires.html
Standard Chartered Plc  plans to hire
about 1,800 people for its global trading and underwriting
operations over the next three years as the bank aims to more
than double revenue from those businesses.  The expansion from the current 1,700 employees at the
Financial Markets unit is part of a goal to boost net revenue
from those  operations  to about $10 billion by 2014 from $4.4
billion last year,  Leonard Feder , head of the division, said in
a Nov. 25 interview in Singapore.  “This is just the beginning,” said Feder, who joined
Standard Chartered in July 2007 after spending 11 years at Bear
Stearns Cos., where he was last the co-head of its prime
brokerage unit. “We’re just scratching the surface on what the
opportunities are.”  Standard Chartered is challenging firms such as  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.,  the Wall Street bank that got $38 billion in
revenue from investment banking and trading in 2009. The London-
based lender, which gets most of its profit from Asia, plans to
expand in underwriting securities denominated in the Chinese
currency and boost trading on behalf of clients in equities,
commodities and currencies, according to Feder.  Offshore yuan-denominated products is “probably number one
on our list,” Feder said. Standard Chartered arranged
McDonald’s Corp.’s sale of yuan bonds in Hong Kong in August,
the first by a foreign non-financial company.  Acquisitions  Standard Chartered is working with several funds and
issuers to spur trading in so-called dim sum bonds, said  Sundeep Bhandari , the bank’s head of global markets for Northeast Asia.
Average daily turnover may rise as much as six-fold to 300
million yuan ($45 million) by the end of 2011, from 50 million
this month, the bank estimates.  The bank’s shares slipped 0.9 percent today in Hong Kong,
paring this year’s gain to 15 percent. Rival  HSBC Holdings Plc 
has dropped 10 percent in trading in the city in the period.  “Standard Chartered is in a sweet spot globally,” said
 Cormac Leech , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in London who
has a “hold” rating on the stock. “Everybody wants to get
into wholesale emerging markets activity.”  Feder said he’s looked at about 15 potential acquisition
targets in the last 12 months, without identifying them. He
added that he’s interested in purchases in Asia that would
bolster Standard Chartered’s position in financial products that
are traded over exchanges.  Bet on Exchanges  European and U.S. regulators are seeking to force clearing
of over-the-counter derivatives onto exchanges after bank losses
from such securities caused the worst financial turmoil since
the Great Depression.  “The world is going to get more on exchanges and more
transactional,” said Feder, who is based in Singapore.
“Something that gives us more exposure to an exchange type of
broker or an electronic platform is useful to us. It’s not
historically where we’ve been, but that’s where the future looks
like.”  In equities, Feder said he wants to pursue expansion in
markets like Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand, moving beyond
Standard Chartered’s traditional strongholds including Hong Kong,
Singapore, India and South Korea. Standard Chartered agreed to
buy a stake in Mumbai-based brokerage UTI Securities Ltd. in
2007, and completed the purchase of Hong Kong-based
institutional broker Cazenove Asia Ltd. last year.  Standard Chartered gains more than three quarters of its
pretax profit from corporate banking, which includes the
Financial Markets division. The bank will draw on its corporate-
banking relationships in Asia to expand the Financial Markets
unit, Feder said.  “It’s much easier to build product capability than it is
to build relationships,” he said. “We had the relationships
forever, we just didn’t always have the product capability and
that’s what we’ve introduced in the last few years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser in Hong Kong at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  