-- Fiji Water to Close Only Production Plant After Bottled Water Tax Raised
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-11-29T04:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/stuart-resnick-s-fiji-water-will-close-only-plant-after-increase-in-taxes.html
Fiji Water LLC, part of billionaire
 Stewart Resnick ’s closely held  Roll International Corp. , will
today shut its only production plant after the Pacific Ocean
island nation of Fiji raised the tax rate on its bottled water.  Fiji Water, the biggest selling premium bottled water in
the U.S. market after  Danone SA ’s Evian, is still assessing
where it will source water after the plant closure, spokeswoman
Amber Eyerly said by phone.  The government said Nov. 26 it will raise the tax
applicable to Fiji Water to 15 cents a liter from one-third of a
cent, Chief Operating Officer John Cochrane said in an e-mailed
statement. That compares with tax of one tenth of a cent on
smaller producers, the company said. No one at the office of
Fiji’s president was available for comment.  The measure “sends a clear and unmistakable message to
businesses operating in Fiji or looking to invest there: the
country is increasingly unstable, and is becoming a very risky
place in which to invest,” Fiji Water said in the statement.  The tax increase comes after Prime Minister Commodore
 Voreqe Bainimarama , who seized power in a December 2006
bloodless coup, ordered Fiji Water’s Director of External
Affairs David Roth to leave the country on Nov. 22 for
“interfering in the domestic affairs and governance of Fiji,”
according to a statement on the government’s website.  “Fiji Water remains willing to work through this issue
with the Fiji government, as it would be our preference to keep
operating in Fiji,” the company said.  The company, which said it generates more than F$130
million ($70.4 million) in export revenue annually, employs
almost 400 workers at its plant in Fiji.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  