-- U.K. Home Prices Decline as Property Demand Drops Most in Almost Two Years
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/u-k-home-prices-decline-as-property-demand-drops-most-in-almost-two-years.html
U.K.  house prices  fell for a fifth
month in November as demand for property dropped the most in
almost two years, Hometrack Ltd. said.  The average cost of a home fell 0.8 percent from October to
155,000 pounds ($242,900), the London-based property researcher
said in an e-mailed statement today. Demand for homes, measured
by the change in new buyers registering with real-estate agents,
fell 4.3 percent, the biggest decline since January 2009.  The report adds to evidence of a weakening property market
after  Rightmove Plc  said on Nov. 15 that home sellers cut  asking
prices  by the most since 2007 this month and U.K. banks approved
the smallest number of mortgage since 2009 in October. The
government has announced the biggest budget squeeze since World
War II and officials have warned the cuts may harm the recovery.  “Concerns over the economic outlook on the back of recent
spending cuts, together with widespread expectations that house
prices are set for a period of retrenchment, are driving the
continued weakness in demand,” Richard Donnell, Hometrack’s
director of research, said in the statement. “In the near term
we expect demand to remain weak and this will continue to put
downward pressure on prices.”  Price declines were led by London, Wales, as well as
England’s south east, West Midlands and north east regions,
which all posted a fall of 0.9 percent, Hometrack said. Values
in southern England, which posted the strongest recovery after
the recession, are under the greatest pressure, it said.  The average time a property stays on the market before
being sold climbed to 9.8 weeks in November, the longest since
May 2009. Sellers in Wales and England’s East Midlands and north
west regions have to wait more than three months.  Lending Restrictions  The housing market has weakened as banks tightened lending
criteria, causing the level of home loans to drop below half of
that seen at the peak of the property boom in 2007.  Mortgage
approvals  fell to 30,766 in October, the fewest since March
2009, the British Bankers’ Association said on Nov. 23.  While an increase in the supply of homes for sale in the
past six months has helped push values down, Hometrack said the
pace of properties being put on the market is expected to slow.
That trend will help limit the fall in the average house price
to 2 percent in 2011, it said.  While the U.K. economy posted its strongest two consecutive
quarters of growth in a decade, Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said this month that the pace of expansion will slow. The
country’s Office for Budget Responsibility is due to publish
updated economic forecasts at 1 p.m. in London.  The budget squeeze is also restraining consumer spending. A
separate report today showed that sales at  consumer-services 
companies such as hotels and bars unexpectedly fell in the past
three months. The number of firms saying sales volumes fell in
the quarter exceeded those seeing gains by 18 percentage points,
according to a survey by the Confederation of British Industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  