-- U.K. Trims Growth Forecast for Next Two Years, Sees Deficit Little Changed
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-11-29T18:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/u-k-trims-growth-forecast-for-next-two-years-sees-deficit-little-changed.html
The British economy faces a
“sluggish” outlook with the recovery likely to be slower than
after previous recessions, the Treasury’s fiscal watchdog said.  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  cut its 2011 growth
forecast today to 2.1 percent from 2.3 percent and said the
economy will expand 2.6 percent in 2012 instead of 2.8 percent.
Growth will be faster than expected this year, it said.  “Their central view is that there will be no double-dip
recession,” Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told
Parliament in London after the forecasts were released. “This
is an uncertain world but the British recovery is on track.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  is facing growing public
pressure over his plans to slash the record deficit, expected by
the OBR to be 10 percent of economic output this year. The
opposition Labour Party has urged the government to moderate the
pace of tightening, saying the recovery is still too fragile.  Sterling fell 0.3 percent to $1.5556 in London today. The
two-year gilt yield fell 2 basis points to 0.993 percent.  “The economy will continue to recover, but at a slower
pace than in the previous three recessions,” OBR Chairman
 Robert Chote  told reporters in London today. There is “less
comfort” about the chances of a double-dip recession than in
June, he said.  ‘Fewer Job Losses’  About 330,000 government jobs will be axed by 2015, 160,000
fewer than thought in June, and the loss will be more than
offset by the creation of about 1.5 million private-sector jobs,
the OBR said. The revision largely reflects Cameron’s decision
last month to find an extra 7 billion pounds of welfare cuts and
allocate the money to departments.  The budget deficit will be 600 million pounds lower in the
year through March than previously forecast at 148.5 billion
pounds, the OBR said. On balance there was no change over the
following four years.  The OBR raised its 2010 economic growth forecast to 1.8
percent from 1.2 percent after a growth spurt in the second and
third quarters, though it said the pace of expansion was
unsustainable, being partly due to restocking by companies.  Faster-than-expected growth this year means the level of
output will be half a point higher in 2011 than previously
forecast, it said. The Labour opposition and economists said the
forecasts rely too heavily on exports, which the OBR predicts
will grow faster than imports in each of the next four years.  ‘Too Strong’  “We think their projection for GDP growth next year is
still too strong given the weak prospects for Europe,” said
 Simon Kirby , an economist at the National Institute for Economic
and Social Research. “The OBR calculates the chance of the
economy contracting next year is around 1 in 10. We think the
chance is closer to 1 in 6.”  Osborne told lawmakers he is sticking to his spending cuts
and rejected calls to scale back the tightening should the U.K.
economy slide back into recession.  “George Osborne does not have the Plan B that any sensible
chancellor should,” said  Brendan Barber , general secretary of
the Trades Union Congress, which represents about 6 million
workers. “The cuts for this government look like an end in
themselves, rather than a route to recovery.”  Labour said the downward revision to growth prospects
showed the government’s 81 billion pounds of spending cuts and a
planned increase in value-added tax in January were sapping
economic confidence.  Osborne is taking an “unprecedented gamble with people’s
livelihoods and the future,” Labour Party Treasury affairs
spokesman  Alan Johnson  said in Parliament in reply to Osborne.  The OBR was set up by Osborne to oversee Treasury forecasts
and judge the government against its goal of achieving
structural budget balance in the year ending April 2016.  The OBR said there is a 70 percent chance of meeting the
goal on existing tax and spending plans, and more than a 50
percent chance of doing so a year early, with the current budget
forecast to show a surplus of 0.5 percent of gross domestic
product in 2014-15 and net debt falling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London on   gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  