-- U.K. Shoppers to Spend $414 Million on Web During ‘Mega Monday’
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-11-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/u-k-shoppers-to-spend-414-million-on-web-during-mega-monday-.html
British shoppers will spend 265
million pounds ($413.7 million) making internet credit card
purchases today, on what is likely to be the busiest online
shopping day of the year, according to Visa Inc.  As many as 2,600 transactions will take place every minute
on so-called ‘mega Monday,’ boosting the day’s year-on-year
spending by 5.5 percent, the credit-card company said in a
statement.  In the past two years, the closest Monday to December has
been one of the busiest online shopping days of the year as
consumers use month-end pay-checks to cover holiday purchases,
Visa said. Electricals, fashion good and toys were the most
popular purchases as British consumers spent more than 250
million pounds in London’s West End stores over the weekend,  New
West End Co.  said yesterday.  “The combination of monthly salaries being paid and people
taking delivery times into consideration should combine to
deliver a record day for internet shopping,” Visa Europe
Commercial Director  Steve Perry  said in the statement.  One quarter of all the money spent in the U.K. is on a Visa
card, with the majority of consumers using a debit card.
Shoppers will spend an average of 184,000 pounds every minute,
according to Visa. Across Europe, it predicts sales of about 460
million euros ($609.1 million) and over 6.6 million euros in
online transactions.  Children’s Gifts  John Lewis Partnership Plc, the U.K. retailer, said weekly
sales at its department stores rose 8.7 percent from the year-
ago period, driven by gifts for children. Sales were 99.94
million pounds in the week to Nov. 27, the London-based company
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The figure is a 13.5
percent increase from the previous week.  Over one million shoppers descended on central London on
Saturday, where many stores reported a more than 10 percent
increase in sales of so-called “big ticket items,” such as high-
definition televisions, according to New West End, which
represents retailers in the city’s main shopping district,
including  Oxford Street .  “Retailers are reporting that average transaction size was
up this weekend,” New West End Chief Executive Officer Richard
Dickinson said in a statement yesterday. “Shoppers spent an
average of 200 pounds each this weekend, compared with 120
pounds the same weekend last year.”  Separately, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd. predicts U.K.
online retail sales will grow 15 percent this year, boosting
December internet sales to 8 billion pounds. Online purchases
will make up a fifth of total sales in December, the company
said in a report released today.  “Next year is going to be tough for the retail industry as
a whole, but online will continue to grow quickly,” Richard
Hyman, strategic retail adviser to Deloitte, said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  