-- U.K. Online Sales Set to Surge in Coming Years as More Shoppers Use Web
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-11-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/u-k-online-sales-forecast-to-surge-as-more-shoppers-use-web.html
U.K. online sales are set to surge
in coming years as retailers extend their delivery coverage and
more shoppers use the Web, according to two reports today.  Web grocery sales will increase to 9.5 billion pounds ($15
billion) by 2015, from 4.8 billion pounds this year, researcher
IGD said in a statement. Total online revenue may account for 20
percent of retail spending by the end of the decade, compared
with less than 10 percent now, Deloitte LLP said separately.  Retailers such as  Tesco Plc , J Sainsbury Plc, Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.’s Asda and  Ocado Plc  are battling it out for a
larger share of online spending by adding shopping applications
for smartphones and building new warehouses to cater for the
growing demand. According to IGD, more 18-to-34 year-old
shoppers are moving online and wider delivery coverage means
sales have the potential to grow “significantly.”  “Online grocery retailing is already growing at a
phenomenal rate and there is still plenty of potential for
significant expansion,”  Joanne Denney-Finch , IGD’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement. “Although online has a
small share of the overall grocery market, it will be the
fastest growing channel.”  The Internet will account for 5.2 percent of total grocery
spending in five years, up from 3.2 percent now, IGD predicts.  Online sales may increase by 15 percent this Christmas,
compared with growth of 1 percent in total retail spending,
according to Deloitte. Online sales of about 8 billion pounds in
December would represent about 23 percent of total spending,
more than double its annual share, the accounting firm said.  “Convenience and value makes it a particularly popular
channel at Christmas when it is disproportionately important,”
 Richard Hyman , strategic retail adviser to Deloitte, said in a
statement. “Next year is going to be tough for the retail
industry as a whole, but online will continue to grow quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 