-- U.S. Seizes 82 Websites on Allegations They Sold Fake Goods, Holder Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2010-11-29T16:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/u-s-seizes-82-websites-on-allegations-they-sold-fake-goods-holder-says.html
U.S. federal courts have ordered the
seizure of 82 websites alleged by authorities to have sold
counterfeit goods, U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said.  In an announcement timed to coincide with so-called Cyber
Monday, known as the busiest online shopping day, Holder said
the Justice Department is cracking down on websites that peddle
fake brand-name goods that violate copyright and other
intellectual property laws.  An estimated 100 million people shopped online on Cyber
Monday last year, and authorities project a similar number
today, said  John Morton , director of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.  Fake products misrepresented as goods from  Coach Inc. ,  Walt
Disney Co. ,  Oakley Inc. ,  Timberland Co. ,  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA  and  Nike Inc.  were among items peddled on the
sites, the Justice Department said.  “If a deal seems too good to be true, it probably is,”
Holder said at a news conference in Washington.  The seizure follows actions that began with Operation in
Our Sites I in June, the department said. Federal agents made
undercover purchases from websites of counterfeit goods such as
sports equipment and shoes. Online shoppers today will see a
banner saying that U.S. authorities have taken over the
websites.  Counterfeit goods result in “billions of dollars” of lost
revenue for legitimate businesses and taxes for the government,
said Ronald Machen, the U.S. attorney for the District of
Columbia.  ‘Not Victimless’  “Intellectual property crimes are not victimless,” Holder
said.  Seventy-seven of the websites were based in China, and
eight sold copies of movies and television shows, Morton said.
Some of these sites are likely to re-emerge under different
domain names, although the seizures squeeze the counterfeiters’
sales at the height of shopping season, he said.  “By seizing these domain names, we have disrupted the sale
of thousands of counterfeit items, while also cutting off funds
to those willing to exploit the ingenuity of others for their
own personal gain,” Holder said.  Morton said that the “sale of counterfeit U.S. brands on
the Internet steals the creative work of others, costs our
economy jobs and revenue and can threaten the health and safety
of American consumers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
 Sara Forden  in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  