-- U.S. Auto Sales in November May Almost Match 2010 High on SUVs
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-11-29T16:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/u-s-auto-sales-in-november-may-almost-match-2010-high-on-suvs.html
U.S. automobile  sales  in November
may almost match the fastest pace this year as demand for
domestic manufacturers’ trucks and sport-utility vehicles rose.  Industrywide sales, to be released Dec. 1, probably reached
an annual rate of 12.2 million vehicles this month, the average
of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That follows
the 12.3 million pace of October, the fastest since the U.S.
government’s “cash for clunkers” program in August 2009.  Ford Motor Co.  and Chrysler Group LLC each may have
increased sales by more than 20 percent, the average of five
analysts’ estimates. Deliveries may gain 13 percent for  General
Motors Co. , which raised more than $20 billion from common and
preferred shares in an initial public offering this month.  “Domestics will be up by a huge number this month, with a
lot of it coming from strong truck and SUV sales,” said  Jessica Caldwell , an analyst for researcher Edmunds.com in Santa Monica,
California. Trucks and sport-utility vehicles have better sales
“as it gets colder, plus we’ve seen higher demand in the last
few months as gas prices have been stable for some time.”  Deliveries of Ford’s F-Series pickups climbed 30 percent
through October, while sales of Chrysler’s Jeep Grand Cherokee
SUV rose 41 percent, according to Autodata Corp., a research
firm. GM’s sales of the Chevrolet Equinox SUV surged 75 percent.  Annual Rate  The U.S. auto selling rate has stayed above 11 million
since March, according to Autodata, based in Woodcliff Lake, New
Jersey. Deliveries are running about 30 percent slower than the
16.8 million annual average from 2000 to 2007.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.5 percent annual rate in
the third quarter, more than previously calculated, the Commerce
Department reported Nov. 23.  GM ’s sales may benefit from its recent IPO, said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of industry trends at TrueCar.com, who
estimated a 13 percent increase in the Detroit-based automaker’s
deliveries. GM’s owners, including the U.S. Treasury Department,
sold shares at $33 each on Nov. 17.  “If you see the company performing, the stock price
holding up, and perhaps GM posting another profit in the fourth
quarter, that adds to brownie points with consumers,” Toprak
said.  Ford  may post a 21 percent sales gain, the average estimate
of five analysts. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s
shares reached $17 on Nov. 15, the highest closing price since
Jan. 8, 2004. Ford is the world’s top-earning automaker with net
income of $6.37 billion in the first nine months of the year,
the most for the company since 1998.  ‘Exceptional’ Mood  Chrysler’s sales may increase 26 percent, the average of
five analysts’ estimates. The automaker based in Auburn Hills,
Michigan, on Nov. 8 reported an $84 million third-quarter loss
and raised its full-year operating profit forecast to about $700
million.  The mood of customers is “exceptional,” David Kelleher, a
Chrysler dealer in Glen Mills, Pennsylvania, said in a telephone
interview. The redesigned Jeep Grand Cherokee helped make the
month better than a normal November, Kelleher said.  “I have traffic in my showrooms,” he said. “I have very,
very positive customer attitude right now toward our products.
It’s a strong month for November.”  Toyota Motor Corp.  may be the only major automaker whose
U.S. deliveries declined, with a 3 percent drop, the average of
four analysts’ estimates. The world’s largest automaker, based
in Toyota City, Japan, has recalled more than 8 million vehicles
for repairs related to sudden, unintended acceleration.  Toyota’s ‘Black Cloud’  “The effects of the recalls appear to be lingering over
Toyota like a black cloud,” said Toprak, of Santa Monica,
California-based TrueCar. “The image of a company can be
demolished easily overnight. It takes much longer to move the
needle in terms of improving your image.”  November historically is one of the worst months of the
year, after January or February, Toprak said. The industry
usually has about a 10 percent decline in volume in November
from October, and this month “appears to be right in line with
historical patterns,” he said.  “This is a very weak time of year and always has been,
even in a good market,”  Earl Hesterberg , CEO of Houston-based
Group 1 Automotive Inc. dealership group, said in a Nov. 16
telephone interview. “You won’t hear anybody jumping for joy,
but it certainly seems November is generally in line with what
we saw in October. I don’t think anything has turned downwards
other than it’s seasonally a weak time.”  Deliveries at Tokyo-based  Honda Motor Co.  may have risen 24
percent, while Yokohama, Japan-based  Nissan Motor Co.’s  sales
may have increased 16 percent, according to four analysts’
estimates.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from November 2009. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annual rate, or SAAR, are in millions of vehicles.  November had 24 selling days, one more than a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland in Chicago at 
 korland@bloomberg.net . 