-- Huaneng, Chongqing Rural Seek $2.8 Billion in Test of Hong Kong IPO Market
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-11-29T17:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/huaneng-chongqing-rural-seek-2-8-billion-in-test-of-hong-kong-ipo-market.html
China Huaneng Group Corp. and
 Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank  are seeking $2.8 billion in Hong
Kong initial share sales, testing demand from investors a week
after a stock market slump led companies to delay offers.  Huaneng, the country’s biggest electricity producer, aims
to raise as much as $1.28 billion in the initial public offering
of its renewable energy unit, according to terms sent to
investors. Chongqing Rural, the largest lender to agricultural
and small businesses in China’s most populous city, is seeking
as much as $1.55 billion.  The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has slumped more than 7
percent from this year’s peak on Nov. 8 after China stepped up
measures to contain  inflation , North Korea shelled South Korea
and the European Union led a bailout of Ireland. The decline led
Bluestar Adisseo Nutrition Group and China Datang Corp. to
suspend and delay offerings in Hong Kong last week, while people
familiar with the matter said yesterday that  Oleg Deripaska’s 
OAO EuroSibEnergo will also push back a planned share sale.  “I’m a little bit surprised that they are pressing
ahead,” said  Francis Lun , general manager at Fulbright
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong, referring to Huaneng and Chongqing
Rural. “I don’t think there’s the appetite at the moment after
we had two companies delay their share sales last week.”  Agricultural Bank, AIA  Companies have raised a record $49 billion in Hong Kong
IPOs this year, including overallotment options, as Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. and AIA Group Ltd. led stock sales to benefit
from investor demand for growth in Asia. Chongqing Rural Bank’s
sale, if priced at the top end of the range, would make it the
fifth largest in the city this year, Bloomberg data show.  Bluestar Adisseo Nutrition Group , the animal-nutrition
producer backed by Blackstone Group LP, last week said it
withdrew its IPO because of “continued and excessive” market
volatility. Bluestar and  China Datang  were seeking a maximum
$2.6 billion combined in their share sales.  Billionaire Deripaska’s EuroSibEnergo, Russia’s second-
largest hydropower producer, yesterday delayed its planned Hong
Kong IPO as it sought to bring in a strategic investor, said two
people familiar with the matter. The company will postpone the
sale until the start of next year as the proposed investor
awaits government approval to proceed, the people said.  ShiFang Holding Ltd. , a Chinese advertising and bulk media-
buying company, sold shares at the low end of its price range
last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
priced 183 million shares at HK$3.03 apiece after offering them
at HK$3.03 to HK$4.61 each.  ‘Creates Uncertainties’  Huaneng and Chongqing Rural may be seeking a sale now on
concern the stock market may be even weaker next year, said
 Michiya Tomita , a Hong Kong-based fund manager for Mitsubishi
UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees $65 billion globally.  “The strong growth this year allows countries like China
to start tightening, which creates uncertainties for stock
markets next year,” Tomita said.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rebounded from three
consecutive weeks of declines yesterday after Europe agreed to a
bailout for Ireland, offsetting concern that tensions on the
Korean peninsula will escalate.  The amount of money raised through Hong Kong IPOs may
decline in 2011 from this year’s record due to a lack of
offerings as large as those from Agricultural Bank of China and
AIA, according to  Kester Ng , co-head of Asia-Pacific equity
capital markets at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Agricultural Bank of China  raised about $12 billion in Hong
Kong as part of the world’s largest IPO, while AIA sold more
than $20 billion of shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Hard to Beat’  “We expect to see a lot of IPOs of $300 million, $400
million to $1 billion,” Ng said. “We may see a similar number
or maybe a higher number of IPOs, but this year’s proceeds is
hard to beat.”  Huaneng Renewables Corp. is offering 2.5 billion shares for
HK$2.98 to HK$3.98 apiece, according to the term sheet. The
Beijing-based company plans to start trading on Dec. 16. Morgan
Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Macquarie Group Ltd. are
managing the share sale.  Chongqing Rural, based in the southwestern city of
Chongqing, is offering 2 billion shares at HK$4.50 to HK$6 each,
according to its term sheet. The bank plans to start trading on
Dec. 16. Morgan Stanley and Nomura International are managing
the sale.  Chongqing Rural, the ninth Chinese bank to list in Hong
Kong, was established in June 2008 after the government merged
the rural cooperatives in the region. The bank, with about 1,800
outlets and 14,000 employees, had more than 200 billion yuan of
assets by the end of 2009, according to its Web site.  “The bank should trade at a discount to bigger Chinese
banks in Hong Kong,” as it’s not very well known and its
operations are fairly limited, said  James Liu , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at CIMB-GK Securities Research Pte. “Some investors
might be attracted by its stable deposit base given its rural
background.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net 
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 