-- Huaneng Renewables to Seek as Much as $1.3 Billion in Hong Kong Share Sale
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-11-29T02:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/huaneng-renewables-to-seek-as-much-as-1-3-billion-in-hong-kong-share-sale.html
China Huaneng Group Corp., the
country’s biggest electricity producer, aims to raise as much as
$1.3 billion in the initial share sale of its renewable energy
unit in Hong Kong to increase output capacity and meet demand.  Huaneng Renewables Corp. is offering 2.5 billion shares for
HK$2.98 to HK$3.98 apiece, according to terms sent to investors.
The stock is due to go on sale in Hong Kong on Dec. 16,
according to the term sheet.  A record $49 billion was raised in Hong Kong through
initial public offerings so far this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. China Datang Corp., the nation’s second-
biggest power producer, and Bluestar Adisseo Nutrition Group,
backed by Blackstone Group LP, delayed IPO plans in the city
last week because of market volatility.  “I’m a little bit surprised that they are pressing ahead
with this share sale,” said  Francis Lun , general manager at
Fulbright Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “I don’t think there’s
the appetite at the moment after we had two companies delay
their share sales last week.”  The benchmark Hang Seng index has fallen 8.4 percent since
the gauge hit this year’s high on Nov. 8, amid concerns the
Chinese government will take additional measures to cool the
economy and curb consumer prices that rose at the fastest pace
in two years.  The Huaneng renewable energy unit has hired Morgan Stanley,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Macquarie Group Ltd. to manage the
share sale, two people familiar with the matter said on Nov. 11.  Renewable Energy Demand  China, the world’s biggest polluter, wants at least 15
percent of its energy to come from renewable sources including
wind by 2020. The nation erected more wind turbines in 2009 than
any other country and may install a record 18 gigawatts of wind-
power capacity this year, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance estimates.  China Huaneng plans to have 20,000 megawatts of wind-power
capacity by the end of the decade, or about 10 percent of its
total estimated generating capacity by then, according to a
company statement on May 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 