-- Lufthansa Plans to Be First to Test Biofuels on Regular Flights
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-11-29T14:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/lufthansa-plans-to-be-first-to-test-biofuels-on-regular-flights-in-april.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s
second-biggest airline, plans to be the first carrier to test
biofuels on regular passenger flights as the  industry  seeks ways
to lower carbon-dioxide emissions and save on fuel purchases.  Kerosene derived from plant oils will make up 50 percent of
the fuel mix for one engine on an Airbus SAS A321 airliner
flying on the Hamburg-Frankfurt route,  Joachim Buse , head of
Lufthansa’s aviation-biofuel program, told reporters today in
Berlin. The program will begin in April and last for six months
if approved by regulators, he said.  Carriers including  British Airways Plc  and  Continental
Airline Inc.  are trying to curb emissions of greenhouse gases
blamed for global warming and have been making test flights
powered by biofuels made from plants such as jatropha and
carmelina. Cologne, Germany-based  Lufthansa  plans to use the
fuels in its entire fleet by 2020 but won’t exceed a mix of
5 percent to 10 percent because of short supply, Buse said.  “We now have a fuel that combines reliable and powerful
propulsion and which, unlike fossil fuels, has a positive CO2
balance,” Buse said. “It doesn’t look like we’ll have an
alternative to combustion in jet engines for the next 40 to 50
years.”  Boeing Co., the world’s second-biggest maker of commercial
aircraft, forecasts that airlines will derive 1 percent of their
fuel from plants by 2015. Jet-fuel  prices  in northwest Europe
have gained 20 percent since Aug. 24, Bloomberg data show.
Lufthansa said on Oct. 28 that it expects expenses for fuel
after hedging contracts to jump 15 percent in 2011 from a
projected 5.2 billion euros ($6.8 billion) this year.  The bio-synthetic kerosene, which is produced by Espoo,
Finland-based  Neste Oil Oyj , is lighter and contains as much as
4 percent more energy than regular kerosene, Buse said. The test
program will cost 6.6 million euros, of which Lufthansa will
bear 4.1 million euros, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Berlin via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 