-- TUI Said to Be Working With Three Banks to Prepare Hapag-Lloyd Stake Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-11-29T17:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/tui-said-to-work-with-three-banks-to-sell-stake-in-hapag-lloyd.html
TUI AG,  the biggest single
shareholder in the Hapag-Lloyd steamship company, is working
with three banks to prepare the sale of its stake in the
container line, said four people with knowledge of the process.  Credit Suisse Group AG , Deutsche Bank AG and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  are advising TUI on the sale, which would likely be
done through an initial public offering, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private. The IPO
of the stake in Hapag, Germany’s biggest container line, would
happen next year, possibly in the second quarter, two of the
people said.  Companies in western Europe raised $25.8 billion this year
selling shares to the public for the first time, more than the
previous two years combined while the financial crisis brought
the IPO market to a near-drought, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. IPOs in the region raised a record $108.7 billion in
2007, the data show.  TUI holds 43 percent in Hapag and said Sept. 22 that its
stake will increase to 49.8 percent by the end of the year after
some debt is refinanced. Hapag on Nov. 16 reported record
earnings before interest and taxes of 506 million euros ($666
million) for the first nine months of 2010 after freight rates
and volumes increased.  TUI has repeatedly said it wants to dispose of its stake in
Hapag to focus on tourism. The company, based in Hanover,
Germany, hasn’t been able to find a buyer. The increase of its
stake is the result of the conversion of a hybrid loan for Hapag
into equity, according to the company’s statement in September.  ‘Examining Options’  “TUI hasn’t made any decision yet on how to dispose of its
stake in Hapag,” said  Robin Zimmermann , a spokesman for TUI, by
telephone. “We are still examining all options to dispose of
the stake to generate a maximum of value for TUI’s
shareholders.”  A Hamburg-based investor group, including German
billionaire  Klaus Michael Kuehne , M.M. Warburg & Co., HSH
Nordbank AG and Hamburg’s government, bought a majority stake in
Hapag-Lloyd.  Hapag’s business last year was affected by the global
economic crisis. The shipping company posted an operating loss
in the shortened fiscal year through September 2009 of 675
million euros after a profit of 212 million euros a year
earlier.  TUI fell 19 cents, or 2.2 percent, to 8.28 euros in German
trading today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Zijing Wu  in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 