-- Hungary Stocks Enter Bear Market, Bonds Sink on Concern Crisis Will Expand
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-11-29T17:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/hungary-stocks-fall-may-be-first-in-emerging-gauge-to-enter-bear-market.html
Hungary’s  benchmark  equity index
dropped more than 20 percent from its 2010 peak and government
bonds sank as a surprise interest-rate increase compounded
concern that Europe’s debt crisis is spreading east.  The  BUX  Index gauge fell 2.6 percent to 20,221.37 today,
the world’s second-worst performer after Turkey’s  ISE National
100 Index . Local-currency notes due February 2015 tumbled for a
sixth day, lifting yields by 25 basis points to a 14-month high
of 8.192 percent at 5:25 p.m. in Budapest. The forint, Poland’s
zloty and the Czech koruna led emerging-market currencies lower.  Hungary’s central bank unexpectedly raised its benchmark
interest rate today to combat the fastest inflation since June
and support the forint after the currency sank to its weakest
level in two months against the euro. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s administration is levying special taxes and
funneling assets from private pensions to plug the government’s
budget gap while funding crises in Greece and Ireland push up
borrowing costs for Europe’s most-indebted nations.  “With global markets under some pressure at the moment,
investors don’t need to find an excuse to sell risky assets, and
the news flow out of Hungary at present just continues to be
downbeat,”  Timothy Ash , London-based head of emerging-market
research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a report
today. “We would continue to recommend reducing exposure.”  Hungary was the first European Union nation to receive an
International Monetary Fund bailout during the global credit
crisis two years ago after its widening budget deficit and
consumers’ spiraling foreign-currency debt spurred investors to
dump Hungarian assets.  ‘Slow Death’  The government told Hungarians on Nov. 24 to move some of
their private-retirement fund assets to government control or
lose their state pension, an ultimatum designed to shift 3
trillion forint ($14.1 billion) to close the  budget  gaps.  The pension policies “condemn the local equity market to a
slow death,” Matthias Siller, who helps manage $4 billion in
Europe, Middle East and Africa stocks at Baring Investment
Services in London, said in a phone interview today. “It means
that equities will list at big, big discounts to other places.”  Fitch Ratings said last week it may cut the country rating
from BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, because the
pension changes are “negative” for the public finances. Credit
Agricole Cheuvreux SA said last week investors should reduce
holdings of Hungarian equities, citing the “complete
unpredictability” of the government’s decisions and a risk of
rating downgrades.  ‘Very Troubled’  European stocks fell today, extending a three-week decline,
the euro weakened to a two-month low versus the dollar, and the
cost of insuring against default on Portuguese and Spanish debt
soared to record-high levels as an 85 billion-euro ($113
billion) package of emergency loans for Ireland failed to
reassure investors the region’s debt crisis will be contained.  Hungary’s government bonds extended their biggest monthly
selloff since February 2009. The 2015 bond now yields 1.48
percentage points more than at the end of October. The forint
plunged 1.2 percent to 283.51 per euro, making it the world’s
worst-performing currency in November with a 4.3 percent
depreciation.  “What’s happening in the euro zone is making eastern
Europe very troubled,” said Koon Chow, emerging-markets
strategist at Barclays Capital, in a phone interview from
London. In Hungary, “the central bank is worried about the
impact the weakening of the exchange rate may have on economic
imbalances.”  The cost of protecting Hungary’s debt against non-payment
with credit default swaps rose to 365 basis points today, the
highest in 2 1/2 months, from 351 yesterday, according to prices
from CMA, a data provider. The price of default swaps rises when
investor perceptions of the borrower’s creditworthiness worsen.  ‘Policy Battle’  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank in Budapest raised the benchmark
two-week deposit rate to 5.5 percent from a record-low 5.25
percent, matching the forecast of two analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Sixteen predicted no change. Hungary is the first of the
EU’s eastern members to raise interest rates this year.  Industry taxes being levied to reduce the budget shortfall
to less than 3 percent of output next year will raise the
inflation rate by 0.3 percentage points next year, the central
bank said on Nov. 11. Inflation has been climbing for two months
to 4.2 percent in October, the highest level since June.  The central bank’s decision may be part of a “policy
battle” with the government, which has urged looser monetary
conditions, Win Thin, global head of emerging-markets strategy
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, wrote in a note to
clients.  ‘Increasingly Worrying’  The government has called on central bank President  Andras Simor  to resign and last week said it wants to strip him of the
right to nominate rate-setters, giving parliament the power to
select future policy makers. The terms of four of the seven
Monetary Council members will expire in March.  “Hungary is looking increasingly worrying, with the
National Bank of Hungary and the government at each other’s
throats at the moment, just when global market conditions are
looking very difficult,” Ash wrote in the RBS report. “These
two institutions need to be pulling together at these difficult
times, not against one another.”  The BUX has led a selloff from New York to Shanghai since
global shares peaked on Nov. 5 amid concern Europe’s debt crisis
and China’s fight against inflation will slow global economic
growth. The BUX has declined 20.1 percent from this year’s high
on April 6, becoming the first emerging-market stock gauge to
enter a so-called bear market since global equities began
falling this month.  The MSCI All-Country World Index , the benchmark index for
shares in emerging and developed nations, has retreated 5.6
percent from this year’s Nov. 5 high as the market value of
global shares declined by $2.3 trillion, according to data
compiled by  Bloomberg. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  of shares
in 21 developing countries fell 6.7 percent during the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  