-- Hungary Debt May Be Hurt by European Volatility as Moody's Reviews Rating
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/hungary-debt-may-be-hurt-by-european-volatility-as-moody-s-reviews-rating.html
Hungary’s “debt dynamics” may be
worse than previously anticipated because of recent volatility
on European financial markets, Moody’s Investors Service said
after the region’s sovereign-debt crisis engulfed Ireland.  The credit evaluator has been reviewing Hungary’s Baa1
rating, the third-lowest investment grade, for a possible
downgrade since July 23. It will make a decision “within the
next week or two,”  Kristin Lindow , a senior vice president at
Moody’s in New York, said yesterday in a phone interview.  “The question becomes: do the debt dynamics work out in the
same way that they had been anticipated to work out previously?”
Lindow said. “The answer is probably not, given European
financial market volatility during the past few months.”  The yield on Hungary’s 10-year government bond rose to the
highest in more than a year yesterday as Ireland’s 85 billion-
euro ($113 billion) bailout failed to ease concern that more
European nations will need aid. Hungary’s risk assessment
worsened last week as the government moved to cut the budget
deficit by funneling private pension-fund accounts to the state,
contributing to a central bank decision to unexpectedly raise
 interest rates  for the first time since 2008.  The cost of insuring Hungary’s debt against default, as
measured by the five-year credit default swap, rose to 376.89
basis points yesterday, the highest in 11 weeks. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year government bond rose to 8.3 percent.  ‘Bear’ Market  The benchmark  BUX stock index  fell 2.6 percent yesterday,
extending its slump from the 2010 peak to more than 20 percent.
The index is the first emerging-market gauge to enter a so-
called bear market since global equities began falling this
month.  Moody’s put Hungary, the most indebted eastern member of
the European Union, on review for possible downgrade in July,
after economic-policy talks between the government and the
 International Monetary Fund  failed. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
in September committed to meet 2010 and 2011 budget-deficit
goals approved by the Washington-based lender and the EU.  To meet the target of narrowing the  budget deficit  to less
than the EU’s target of 3 percent of economic output, the
Cabinet levied taxes on selected industries and told citizens
they will lose state pensions unless they move privately managed
retirement accounts to government control.  ‘Longer-Term Implications’  “We had anticipated that there would be a rapprochement
after the local elections in the beginning of October and that
of course didn’t happen,” Lindow said. “The focus of the
review is obviously the longer-term implications for fiscal
sustainability and the extent to which the fiscal policy becomes
an impediment to growth.”  Lindow said she couldn’t comment on specific government
measures before Moody’s publishes its rating statement.  Fitch Ratings on Nov. 25 said it may cut Hungary’s credit
grade by the end of this year because the plan to shift private
pension accounts to the state may have a “negative impact” on
fiscal sustainability. Fitch rates Hungary’s debt BBB, its
second-lowest investment grade.  Standard and Poor’s on Nov. 3 maintained Hungary’s debt
rating at BBB-, one step above junk. While the government’s
measures are sufficient to meet short-term budget targets, they
fail to address the “structural deficit” that may widen the
budget gap to 6 percent of gross domestic product by 2014, S&P
said at the time.  Moody’s rates Hungary three steps lower than the Czech
Republic, two grades below Poland and two notches above
Bulgaria, Latvia and Romania. The country’s rating is on par
with those for Lithuania and Russia.  “We’ve been examining the program the government has put
forward and the measures taken in the 2011 budget framework,”
Lidow said. “In that context we’ll make a decision on whether
or not Hungary should be rated lower relative to its peers on
the rating scale.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  