-- Hungary Unexpectedly Raises Main Interest Rate on Budget Risks, Inflation
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-11-29T15:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/hungary-unexpectedly-raises-main-interest-rate-on-budget-risks-inflation.html
Hungary’s  central bank  unexpectedly
raised its benchmark interest rate after holding it at a record
low for six months and said further monetary tightening may be
needed to contain accelerating inflation.  Policy makers at the  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  in Budapest gave
“near unanimous” support to raise the  benchmark two-week deposit
rate  to 5.5 percent from 5.25 percent, central bank President
 Andras Simor  told reporters today. The bank also considered
holding the rate unchanged. Hungary may need to increase
borrowing costs further “in the coming months” to help meet its
3 percent inflation goal, the Monetary Council said.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  levied special industry taxes
to narrow a budget gap and finance a cut in the personal income
tax. The measures will boost consumer prices, according to the
central bank, which today raised its estimate of 2011 inflation.  “The government has essentially forced the central bank
into this rate increase,”  Gabor Ambrus , an analyst at 4Cast
Ltd., said by the phone from London today. The taxes may lead to
“a multiyear inflation shock” and a plan to boost domestic
spending with a cut in the personal income tax may also increase
prices, he said.  The forint has weakened 4.2 percent this month, the worst
performance among more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
and traded at 282.85 per euro at 4:19 p.m. in Budapest from
280.11 on Nov. 26. The country’s benchmark BUX stock index fell
as much as 3 percent to the lowest since Feb. 8.  Risk Assessment Worsens  The country’s risk assessment worsened last week after the
government told citizens they will lose their state pensions
unless they transfer their private pension-fund accounts to the
state. The country’s five-year credit default swap, measuring
the cost to protect against default, soared to 379 at 3:41 p.m.
today, the highest in 11 weeks. The yield on the benchmark 10-
year government bond rose to 8.3 percent, the highest in the
past year.  The industry taxes the government is levying to reduce the
 budget shortfall  to less than 3 percent of output next year will
raise the inflation rate by 0.3 percentage points in 2011, the
central bank said on Nov. 11. The  rate  has been rising for two
months to 4.2 percent in October, the highest level since June.  ‘No Other Option’  The central bank raised its 2011 inflation forecast to 4
percent from an estimated 3.5 percent in August and sees the
2012 consumer-price index at an average 3.3 percent. Policy
makers want to avert inflation expectations from stabilizing at
a higher level, Simor said.  “The Monetary Council had and has no other option but to
try to steer inflation toward the target with stricter monetary
conditions,” Simor said. “The Council has to do this even if it
knows that this may restrain growth in the short term.”  Economic growth may be 3.1 percent next year, faster than
the August forecast of 2.8 percent, while the economy may expand
4 percent in 2012, compared with an earlier projection of 3.4
percent, the central bank said. In 2010, GDP growth is forecast
at 1.1 percent, according to the release.  Fitch Ratings may cut Hungary’s credit grade by the end of
this year because the government’s plan to direct private
pension funds to the state may have a “negative impact” on
fiscal sustainability,  David Heslam , a London-based director at
Fitch, said in a Nov. 26 phone interview.  ‘Policy Battle’  Most analysts in a Bloomberg survey predicted the bank
would keep the key interest rate unchanged to protect the
economic recovery from the worst  recession  in 18 years and as
unemployment remains near a record high.  The central bank’s decision may also be part of a “policy
battle” with the government, which in the past has urged looser
monetary policy, and the central bank,  Win Thin , global head of
emerging-markets strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
New York, wrote in a note to clients.  The government has called on Simor to resign and last week
proposed to strip him of the right to nominate rate-setters,
giving parliament the power to select future policy makers. The
terms of four of the seven Monetary Council members will expire
in March.  “The bank cited rising inflation risks and noted the need
for further hikes but in our view, this move was meant to be a
strong signal to the government to keep its hands off monetary
policy and to instead focus on improving fiscal policy,” Thin
wrote in the research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  