-- Husky to Buy Exxon Canadian Properties, Sell Stock
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-29T21:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/husky-energy-in-c-860m-buy-sale-pact-with-exxonmobil-canada.html
Husky Energy Inc.  the Calgary-based
company controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-Shing , agreed
to buy C$860 million ($842.5 million) of oil and natural-gas
properties in western Canada from  Exxon Mobil Corp ., adding
production and reserves in areas where it’s already operating.  The purchase in Alberta and northeast British Columbia will
add the equivalent of 21,900 barrels a day of oil and gas
production and 113 million barrels of proved and probable
reserves, Calgary-based Husky said in a statement today. The
deal is part of C$4.86 billion in planned capital spending next
year, a 20 percent increase.  The properties are “located in core operating areas where
we will be able to leverage our existing infrastructure to
create additional shareholder value,”  Asim Ghosh , chief
executive officer of Husky, said in the statement.  Husky also said it intends to sell $1 billion of common
stock to finance expansion, including initial development of the
Sunrise oil-sands project it shares with  BP Plc  and a planned
joint venture in Southeast Asia with China National Offshore Oil
Corp.  The company said it has decided not to spin off assets in
Southeast Asia. Talks with China National Offshore on the Liwan
3-1 natural-gas joint venture in the South China Sea are at “an
advanced stage” and plans will be submitted early next year, it
said.  Husky fell 95 cents, or 3.7 percent, to C$24.57 at 4 p.m.
in Toronto, the largest drop in four months. It has  fallen  18
percent this year. Exxon, based in Irving, Texas,  rose  22 cents
to $69.45 in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 