-- Vietnam Arrests Pharmaceuticals Executive in First Securities-Fraud Case
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-30T08:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/vietnam-arrests-vien-dong-pharma-chairman-in-first-securities-fraud-case.html
Vietnam started prosecuting its
first case of securities fraud since the stock exchange opened a
decade ago, underscoring efforts to restore confidence in the
world’s worst-performing market since June.  Criminal proceedings against  Le Van Dung , chairman of  Vien
Dong Pharma Joint-Stock Co.  for “stock-price manipulation”
commenced on Nov. 24 and he was arrested two days later, the
company said yesterday. Vien Dong  climbed  4.9 percent from a
record low, halting eight straight days of declines at the 11
a.m. close. The benchmark  VN Index  climbed 1.2 percent to a
three-week high.  “Investigations into such fraud cases are positive news
because that will boost investor confidence,” said  Tong Minh Tuan , deputy head of research at Hanoi-based BIDV Securities Co.,
a unit of Bank for Investment & Development of Vietnam, the
nation’s second-biggest lender. “The market hasn’t done very
well recently as reflected in low trading volumes. The price
manipulation has made investors more reluctant to buy.”  The  VN Index  has tumbled 61 percent from the record
1,170.67 in March 2007 amid three currency devaluations since
November 2009 to tackle a widening trade deficit and tightened
capital adequacy ratios for banks to tackle inflation. The gauge
sank 11 percent in the second half of 2010, the worst performer
among 87 benchmark indexes tracked by Bloomberg worldwide.  Trading Volume  The VN Index has retreated 8.7 percent this year, while the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index  advanced 6.6 percent.  Trading volume 
fell 77 percent to 899 billion dong ($46 million) yesterday from
a peak of 3.84 trillion dong on May 7. Volume surged to 1.38
trillion dong today.  Dung was suspended as chairman and general director of Vien
Dong on Nov. 25, according to the company  statement  dated Nov.
26 that was posted yesterday on the  Ho Chi Minh City Stock
Exchange  website and didn’t give details on the nature of the
alleged stock-price manipulation. Dung was arrested on Nov. 26,
the company said in a Nov. 27  statement  on its website.  “It’s the first time fraud in securities trading has led
to the arrest of a company official and caused the police to
file a criminal case,”  Nguyen Son , the head of market
development at the  State Securities Commission , said in a phone
interview yesterday.  Vien Dong was placed on the exchange’s watch list,
requiring more regular financial reports.  Tran Thanh Hoa  has
been appointed as chairwoman to replace Dung, while  Dao Xuan Huong  has been appointed as general director.  Hatay Pharmaceutical  Dung has been accused of a scheme in which the  share price 
of another drugmaker Hatay Pharmaceutical Joint-Stock Co. was
manipulated by creating “false demand and luring many investors
into buying Hatay Pharmaceutical shares at high prices,” state-
run Vietnam News reported yesterday, without saying where it got
the information.  The arrest is “a warning to those who manipulate stock
prices,”  Dao Nho Tam , deputy head of the research and analysis
department at Hanoi-based Alpha Securities Joint-Stock Co. said
in a phone interview.  Hatay Pharmaceutical’s shares fell for “many consecutive
days” because of manipulation by Vien Dong and related people,
Hatay Pharmaceutical said on Sept. 1 in a filing to the Hanoi
Stock Exchange, where it is listed. Hatay shares have slumped 54
percent since reaching a record 98,500 dong on Aug. 18. The
shares remain 54 percent higher this year.  Vi Le Hang , Vien Dong’s deputy general director in charge
of communications, wasn’t in her office when called for comment.
The director and deputy directors of Hatay Pharmaceutical were
out of the office when called for comment.  -- Diep Ngoc Pham  and  Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi. Editors:
 Reinie Booysen , Shiyin Chen  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Diep Ngoc Pham  in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  