-- Vodafone CEO Sees Rivals Following Data Roaming Cuts
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-29T16:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/vodafone-ceo-predicts-rivals-to-follow-smartphone-roaming-cuts.html
Vodafone Group Plc , the world’s
largest mobile-phone company, expects competitors to follow its
price cuts for using smartphones while roaming in Europe.  “I think competitors eventually will follow,” Chief
Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  said in a phone interview
today. “This is just a good and healthy game that should take
place as opposed to regulation.”  The company said today it will offer a flat rate data fee
for customers when travelling in Europe outside their home
market. Customers can use their existing data plans while paying
an additional rate of 2 euros ($2.6) per day for those outside
the U.K. and 2 pounds ($3.1) per day for U.K. customers.  Vodafone, like other operators faced with falling profit
margins on traditional voice offerings, is seeking to drive
increased use of data-intensive smartphones including  Apple
Inc.’s  iPhone that can surf the Web and download music and
video. “Prices will continue to go down in data, but there will
be much higher volumes,” Colao said. “We wanted to show
immediately that we are serious about the new strategy.”  The shares fell 6 pence, or 3.6 percent, to 159.3 pence in
London trading today, the steepest decline since May.  The European Union in June affirmed legislation ordering
operators to cut international roaming rates. The regulation,
adopted in June 2007, cut into annual sales from roaming fees,
which amounted to 8.5 billion euros in 2006, according to the
EU.  Partner Markets  Mobile devices have become the fastest-growing segment of
the telecommunications market. Smartphone shipments are set to
pass 268 million units this year, from 122 million reported by
Gartner Inc. in 2007, when Apple unveiled its iPhone.  Some operators in markets where the company already has
roaming deals have asked Vodafone to extend the new pricing
structure, Colao said. “If we can integrate more networks we
will be glad to integrate more networks.” Any extension will
depend on wholesale agreements, he said.  Vodafone, based in Newbury, England, has said it plans to
increase the percentage of sales from smartphones in Europe to
about 70 percent in the fiscal year ending March 2013 from 32
percent in 2010.  The company also intends to switch to tiered pricing plans
based on the amount of data used and quality of service from its
current quarter.  About 11 percent of Vodafone’s users have smartphones. The
company, which initially missed out on selling the iPhone in the
U.K. to Telefonica SA’s O2 unit, is now offering the device in
its home market and in Germany and the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 