-- Wal-Mart Seeks Massmart Majority With $23 Billion Bid, Scaling Back Offer
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-29T14:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/wal-mart-scales-back-plan-to-buy-all-of-massmart-as-investors-protest-deal.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,  the world’s
largest retailer, said it will seek to buy 51 percent of South
Africa’s  Massmart Holdings Ltd. , stopping short of full
ownership to gain support from shareholders and the government.  Wal-Mart scaled back a plan to acquire all of Johannesburg-
based Massmart after some “emerging-market funds” indicated
opposition to the 148 rand-a-share offer,  Guy Hayward , Massmart
chief financial officer, said on a conference call today.  “The drive for a partial offer, that left Massmart listed,
came mostly from shareholders,” Hayward said. Offshore
investors, holding as much as 72 percent of Massmart, said they
“would be sad see it leave investment boards.”  The partial offer is worth 16.5 billion rand ($2.3 billion)
and values the South African retailer at about 32 billion rand.
The price is the same as when the proposed transaction was
announced on Sept. 27.  Wal-Mart  is seeking to expand
internationally to make up for slowing growth in the U.S., where
same-store sales have fallen for six consecutive quarters.  Restricting the transaction to a majority stake “allows
shareholders to remain invested and share in the upside” of
Massmart’s growth and expansion, Hayward said. The partial offer
is viewed by Wal-Mart as “positive” rather than as a
“compromise,” Andy  Bond , vice president of Europe, Middle East
and Africa, said in a presentation in Johannesburg.  Government Discussions  Wal-Mart has a similar ownership structure in Mexico, where
it owns 68 percent of  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB . The Bentonville,
Arkansas-based retailer operated more than 4,000 stores in 14
countries outside the U.S. through April, with sales abroad
topping more than $100 billion in the most recent fiscal year.  Discussions with South Africa’s central bank, Treasury and
other government departments have been “positive,” Massmart
Chief Executive Officer  Grant Pattison  said.  The government asked whether it would be possible to keep
Massmart listed, while not indicating any opposition to a
transaction, the CEO said. The Johannesburg Stock Exchange also
indicated a preference for the company to remain listed.  Wal-Mart’s plan has met with opposition from labor unions.
The South African Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers’ Union
started an anti-Wal-Mart coalition on Nov. 4, saying the U.S.
retailer “will destroy jobs,” harm local manufacturing and
weaken unions in Massmart’s shops.  Wal-Mart will honor all existing labor agreements, Pattison
said, adding that Massmart has met with SACCAWU.  Sub-Saharan Expansion  The acquisition is the second biggest Wal-Mart has made,
Bond said in an interview. The largest was the $11 billion
takeover of the U.K.’s Asda in 1999. Wal-Mart plans to let
Massmart lead its expansion in the sub-Saharan region, he said.  “What we are not going to do is to manage the rest of sub-
Saharan Africa from the U.K. or Bentonville or whatever,” Bond
said. “The hub of that strategy will still come from” Hayward
and Pattison, he said. “We will support them in doing that.”  Massmart  rose  60 rand, or 0.4 percent, to 142.30 rand as of
3:40 p.m. in Johannesburg trading.  Wal-Mart has “irrevocable” support for its offer from
shareholders representing 35 percent of Massmart, the companies
said in a statement today. Another 15 percent of investors have
offered “non-binding” support to the bid.  The offer needs approval from at least 75 percent of
Massmart investors, according to the statement. Wal-Mart will
seek a waiver to make a mandatory offer from South Africa’s
regulators. Under South African law, a mandatory offer is
triggered when a shareholder breaches a 35 percent threshold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  