-- Wal-Mart International Chief McMillon Seeking Growth in China, Brazil
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-11-29T21:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/wal-mart-international-ceo-says-china-brazil-top-of-the-list-for-deals.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,  the world’s
largest retailer, sees more opportunity in emerging markets than
in Europe, International Chief Executive Officer  Doug McMillon 
said.  “China is top of the list, and Brazil is not far behind”
to make deals, McMillon said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan .” The
Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer is being patient about
finding the right way to expand in Russia, McMillon said.  Wal-Mart  is seeking to expand internationally to make up
for slowing growth in the U.S., where same-store sales have
fallen for six consecutive quarters. The retailer operated more
than 4,100 stores in 14 countries outside the U.S. through
April, with sales topping more than $100 billion in the most
recent fiscal year.  The retailer is also looking to bulk up in developed retail
markets like Japan, where it operates more than 400 stores under
the Seiyu banner. McMillon said the company may make “multiple
acquisitions” over time to gain scale there.  “We’re having conversations but I wouldn’t say it’s clear
there’s an acquisition in the short term,” he said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s New York office. “What we like about
Japan is, sales are growing and we’re outpacing the overall
market.”  Seiyu Holding Company  The retailer entered Japan in 2002 by acquiring a 6.1
percent stake in Seiyu, which became a wholly owned subsidiary
in June 2008. Last year, Wal-Mart placed Seiyu inside a new
holding company to prepare for further expansion in the country,
executives said at the time.  Wal-Mart plans to let South Africa’s  Massmart Holdings Ltd. 
lead its expansion in the sub-Saharan region, McMillon said.
Wal-Mart said earlier today that it will seek to buy 51 percent
of Johannesburg-based Massmart, stopping short of full ownership
to gain support from shareholders and the government.  The company scaled back its plan to acquire all of Massmart
after some emerging-market funds indicated opposition to the 148
rand-a-share offer,  Guy Hayward , Massmart chief financial
officer, said on a conference call today.  The partial offer is worth 16.5 billion rand ($2.3 billion)
and values the South African retailer at about 32 billion rand.
The price is the same as when the proposed transaction was
announced on Sept. 27.  Wal-Mart  rose  11 cents to $53.85 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained less
than 1 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Brennan  in New York at  mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ; 