-- Wall Street Shrinks From Credit Default Swaps Before Rules Hit
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-29T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/wall-street-shrinks-from-default-swaps-as-dodd-frank-rules-hit-speculators.html
Trading in  credit-default swaps ,
Wall Street’s fastest-growing business before the credit crisis,
has tumbled 40 to 60 percent from three years ago as banks
prepare for new regulation of derivatives.  The declines estimated by executives at four of the biggest
dealers of swaps means lower profits at firms that used to get
as much as two-thirds of credit-market trading revenue from the
derivatives. Moody’s Investors Service says pending rules may
translate into job cuts of as much as 50 percent in groups that
trade the contracts.  Investors are avoiding strategies that contributed to $1.82
trillion in writedowns and losses amid the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. The net amount of credit
swaps outstanding globally has fallen 20 percent from October
2008, the earliest figures disclosed by the  Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp.  in New York.  “This was a major profit center for a lot of banks,” said
 Hal Scott , a Harvard Law School professor who also is director
of the Committee on Capital Market Regulation, a nonpartisan
group of academics and business executives that in May 2009
called for measures to reduce the risks derivatives pose. “It’s
part of a bigger picture of reduced financial activity due to
uncertainty and regulatory reform.”  $62 Trillion  While  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  created credit swaps in the
1990s as a way for investors to protect themselves against loans
going bad, trading soared after the industry began developing
standard terms by 2003.  The contracts, in which a seller of protection is paid an
annual premium for agreeing to cover the buyer’s losses should
the underlying borrower default, ballooned to more than $62
trillion at the peak in 2007 on a gross notional amount from
$632 billion in 2001.  In October 2008,  Richard Fuld , then chief executive officer
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., blamed his firm’s collapse
partly on “destabilizing” forces including the escalating cost
of swaps on the investment bank’s debt. Hedge fund manager
 George Soros  called the market “unsafe,” and billionaire
investor  Warren Buffett  once likened derivatives to “financial
weapons of mass destruction.”  Unlike with Treasuries and corporate bonds, dealers don’t
disclose historical trading volumes in swaps. The four banks
provided estimates on the condition they not be named.
Derivatives are contracts whose value is tied to assets
including stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies, or events
such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  Fed Data  The five biggest dealers -- JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. ,  Morgan Stanley ,  Citigroup Inc.  and  Bank of America Corp.  -
- bought a net $430 billion of credit protection as of Sept. 30,
down 38 percent from $689.9 billion in March 2009, filings with
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York show.  Barclays Plc analyst  Roger Freeman  in New York estimates
that before and during the credit crisis, Goldman Sachs
generated two-thirds of its credit-trading revenue from
derivatives. The contracts now likely contribute about a third,
with the rest coming from bonds, he said. Michael DuVally, a
spokesman at Goldman Sachs in New York, declined to comment.  Average daily trading in U.S. corporate bonds fell 12
percent the past six months compared with a year earlier,
according to the Securities Industry & Financial Markets
Association, a trade group.  While Freeman expects a rebound once regulators meet their
July deadline to write market rules, the changes will likely
squeeze profit margins and prompt bank executives to cut more
trading jobs.  ‘Growing Comfort’  “There seems to be growing comfort over the structure of
this market and how it’s going to evolve,” Freeman said in a
telephone interview. “So I’d say we and people in this business
are cautiously optimistic it grows from here.”  Credit-derivatives departments were some of the hardest hit
when the U.S. securities industry slashed more than 80,000 jobs
after the financial crisis, according to  Michael Karp , the chief
executive officer of Options Group, a recruitment firm in New
York. Banks that employed 20 to 30 people in credit derivatives
sales and trading in 2006 and 2007 now have between 5 and 10.  The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, signed by President
 Barack Obama  in July, is intended partly to curb risks to the
economy from swaps. It will require most trades to go through
clearinghouses that are capitalized by the banks and demand
uniform amounts of collateral backing the trades.  To reduce opacity that Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman  Gary Gensler  says gives banks an information advantage,
trades will have to be done on systems that make dealers compete
over pricing and may automate some transactions now done by
phone. The deals also will be reported publicly.  Declining Margins  The changes may drive down pre-tax profit margins for
credit swaps to 22 to 23 percent from about 35 percent, said
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst  Brad Hintz , ranked by
Institutional Investor as the top analyst covering brokerage
firms.  “That’s a big drop,” he said. “But it doesn’t mean the
business goes away. It just becomes a cash business like the
equities cash business or a corporate bond business.”  Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein 
described such a scenario at a Nov. 16 conference sponsored by
Bank of America. After changes in equities markets drove
commission rates down and volume up for the bank, the  firm 
invested in new computerized stock-trading platforms and was
able to slash half the department’s 5,000 trading jobs, he said.  Regulation of the over-the-counter “derivatives market
will drive greater transparency and automation,” Blankfein said
at the conference. “While transparency can reduce margins, it
also introduces new opportunities in the form of greater client
participation and product innovation.”  Fed Clamps Down  While the  creation  of swaps in the 1990s freed up capital
to allow banks to make more loans, they also made it easier to
bet on or against a borrower’s creditworthiness.  Trading in the contracts grew so fast that banks struggled
to keep up with the paperwork. Former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Alan Greenspan  complained at an industry forum in May 2006 that
dealers often recorded trades on “scraps” of paper, calling
the practice “appalling.” Concerned that a backlog of
unconfirmed contracts could trigger a loss of confidence, the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York forced dealers to clean up
their recordkeeping.  Hedge funds and banks started using the contracts to
speculate on the ability of companies, governments and even
homeowners to repay debt they didn’t hold.  American
International Group Inc. , once the world’s largest insurer,
needed a $182.5 billion government bailout because of credit
swaps it sold that guaranteed payment of subprime mortgages.  Rules in Flux  Congress considered banning investors from buying swaps if
they didn’t own the underlying debt they were insuring. Though
that proposal died, the threat contributed to the slowdown in
trading. Would-be users of the derivatives are staying out of
the market until they determine how stringent the final rules
will be once regulators impose them next year, Hintz said.  “No one’s going to enter into a credit-default swap when
you don’t know what the rules are going to be going forward,”
Hintz said.  Before 2008, as much as half of the trades in the market
were done to create and protect against losses from so-called
synthetic collateralized debt obligations that investors bought
to bet on the creditworthiness of companies and countries.  The market for CDOs, which are securities made up of bonds
sliced into different levels with varying degrees of risk and
returns, is in decline, with $72 billion of the securities
created this year, down from the record $503 billion in 2006,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Less Hedging  Money managers who bought swaps protecting against plunging
asset prices in 2008 unwound those hedges in 2009 as markets
rebounded, said  Andy Hubbard , head of U.S. structured credit
trading at  Credit Suisse Group AG  in New York.  “Now that we’ve recovered, people aren’t as worried about
credit risk and there’s not the same degree of hedging
happening,” Hubbard said.  Banks have more than made up for the loss of revenue from
dealing in credit swaps by trading the underlying bonds.
Institutions that once derived about 70 percent of debt-market
trading revenue from swaps and the rest from bonds have largely
reversed the ratio, said  Alexander Yavorsky , a securities firm
credit analyst at Moody’s in New York.  A surge in bond trading helped drive Goldman Sachs’s
revenue from buying and selling securities and derivatives in
the fixed-income, commodities and currencies markets to a record
$23.3 billion last year, according to company statements.  New Products  With volume in that business declining, fixed-income
revenue at Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Citigroup, Morgan Stanley,
Credit Suisse, Bank of America, Deutsche Bank AG and Zurich-
based  UBS AG  slipped an average 12 percent during the first nine
months of 2010 from the same period in 2009, regulatory filings,
investor presentations and Bloomberg data show. Only Morgan
Stanley and UBS reported a gain.  To make up for lost revenue, banks are considering products
they rebuffed three years ago: futures contracts that would be
tied to benchmark credit indexes and traded on exchanges such as
 CME Group Inc.   Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley and Barclays
are among dealers coordinating with credit swaps index owner
Markit Group Ltd. to potentially offer exchange-traded futures
linked to the Markit CDX indexes, people familiar with the
discussions said last month.  The contracts would open the market to small hedge funds,
equity investors and money managers that don’t trade the
contracts enough to justify the cost of negotiating two-party
agreements with banks, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  “The world’s changing and the regulatory pressures are
changing the rules of the game,”  Andy Nybo , head of derivatives
at research firm Tabb Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “The dealers are adapting and looking to remain
relevant and create the products that their clients want and
need.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 