-- Democratic Policy Group Would Cut Social Security for Top Earners in U.S.
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2010-11-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/wealthy-would-have-social-security-trimmed-in-proposal-by-democratic-group.html
A Democratic-led policy group is
defying party history by proposing changes to Social Security to
pave the way for recommendations this week by President  Barack Obama ’s deficit-cutting commission.  Washington-based  Third Way  said its plan would raise the
retirement age, trim or eliminate Social Security benefits for
high-income retirees, limit cost-of-living increases and provide
money to help young workers create private retirement accounts.  The proposal, to be released after the presidential panel
is due to issue its report tomorrow, is timed to help create a
buffer for congressional Democrats to support politically
unpopular deficit-trimming measures, said Third Way spokesman
Sean Gibbons.  “Whatever comes out of the commission is going to be a hot
potato,” Gibbons said. “So we wanted to send something over
that was especially hot.”  Social Security costs will exceed tax revenue beginning in
2015, according to the trustees’ 2010  report . The shortfalls
will be covered by the plan’s trust fund until 2037, when those
reserves are projected to be exhausted. Over the next 75 years,
the trust fund would need another $5.4 trillion in current
dollars to pay all scheduled benefits.  This month the Obama commission’s co-chairmen proposed
gradually raising the retirement age to 68 and reducing Social
Security annual cost-of-living increases, drawing a rebuke from
Democrats led by House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of California.
Democrats have branded their party as the protector of Social
Security, a message that helped them take control of Congress in
2006. Republicans won the House majority in November.  ‘Achieve the Goals’  Pelosi’s spokesman  Brendan Daly  said in an e-mail that any
debt-reduction proposal must “achieve the goals of reducing the
deficit, promoting economic growth and preserving Social
Security.”  Republicans including House Minority Leader  John Boehner  of
Ohio, set to become speaker in January, have argued for raising
the retirement age and limiting or halting benefits for higher-
income retirees. Most Democrats have opposed such means-testing
out of concern that Social Security would become a poverty
program and lose support among higher-income voters.  “The strongest and loudest voices on the left have nailed
up the barricades on Social Security and said ‘hell, no’ and
don’t want any type of cuts in benefits at all,” Third Way co-
founder Jim Kessler, former policy director to Senator  Chuck Schumer  of New York, said in an interview.  In September, more than 100 House Democrats and 20
Democratic senators signed a letter to the commission warning
the members not to touch Social Security.  Alice Rivlin   A handful of Democrats have advocated benefit cuts in
addition to tax increases, including former Congressional Budget
Office Director  Alice Rivlin , a member of Obama’s debt
commission, and  Bill Galston , a former domestic policy adviser
to President  Bill Clinton .  The Third Way proposal is “an effort to break the silence,
to make it a little easier for congressional Democrats who are
thinking these thoughts privately,” Galston said.  Third Way describes itself on its website as “the leading
moderate think tank of the progressive movement.”  The chairman of the group’s board of trustees is  John L. Vogelstein , former president of private-equity firm Warburg
Pincus LLC, and the vice-chairman is  David Heller , global co-
leader of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .’s securities division. Among
the 12 Democratic members of Congress listed as  honorary  co-
chairmen are Representative  Jane Harman  of California and
Senator  Evan Bayh  of Indiana.  Bipartisan Policy Center  Obama’s deficit panel needs agreement from 14 of its 18
members to send a plan to Congress.  Rivlin also is a member of the  Bipartisan Policy Center  in
Washington, which on Nov. 17 proposed increasing the amount of
 wages  subject to Social Security payroll taxes and reducing the
growth in benefits.  The plan by Kessler’s group, a copy of which was provided
to Bloomberg News, will propose boosting monthly benefits for
the lowest-income retirees while reducing them for higher
earners. Cost-of-living increases would be smaller.  Some retirees would have to pay taxes on their full Social
Security payments. Currently, individual retirees with $34,000
in outside income and couples with $44,000 must pay taxes on 85
percent of their benefits. The Third Way plan would require
individuals earning $50,000 a year and couples receiving $60,000
to pay taxes on 100 percent of the benefit.  Social Security benefits would be reduced on a scale
starting at individuals with $150,000 in outside income and
couples with $250,000, and eliminated for individuals earning
$200,000 and couples with $400,000 in income.  ‘Should Not Receive It’  “Those who should not need Social Security at all should
not receive it during their high-income years,” the proposal
said.  The retirement age, now scheduled to rise to 67 in 2027,
would gradually increase to 68 by 2041, to 69 by 2059, and to 70
by 2077. This would reduce total benefits by roughly $1 trillion
by 2040, according to the plan.  The plan would provide annual subsidies of up to $500 to
help workers under age 30 create 401(k)-style retirement savings
accounts. It also proposes options for tax increases, including
raising the payroll tax cap from $106,800 to $190,000 by 2020.  Tim Penny , a former Minnesota Democratic congressman who
served on Bush’s Social Security commission, said he was
“hopeful” about the Third Way report.  “Even if you love to death these entitlement programs, and
we are in the process of loving them to death, at some point
they begin to crowd out everything else,” said Penny. “There’s
an immorality to that.”  ‘Dealing With Reality’  Some Democratic lawmakers have said the party needs to face
up to politically unpopular remedies. “Those who say don’t
touch it aren’t dealing with reality,” Senator  Kent Conrad , a
North Dakota Democrat and chairman of the Budget committee, said
in a Nov. 12 interview on CNN.  House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland said in June
that Congress should consider raising the retirement age and
providing lower Social Security and Medicare benefits to
wealthier beneficiaries.  Even the AARP senior citizens’ group that’s long fought
benefit cuts appears to be open to at least some cutbacks.  John Rother , executive vice president for policy at the senior
citizens’ group AARP, praised the Bipartisan Policy Center plan.  “It’s more politically realistic” than the Obama panel’s
draft and “in general I would characterize this as a more
centrist approach,” said Rother.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  