-- Wheat Rises as Dry Weather in U.S., Rainfall in Australia Damage Harvests
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2010-11-29T14:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/wheat-advances-as-dry-weather-in-u-s-rains-in-australia-damage-harvests.html
Wheat rose for a third day in
Chicago on concern that dry weather in the U.S. may hurt the
crop in the world’s largest exporter and rains might delay
harvesting in Australia, causing reduced quality.  Hard red winter-wheat areas in the U.S. will stay dry over
the next week, said  Mike Tannura , a meteorologist and
agricultural economist at T-Storm Weather LLC, in an e-mail
today. Recent rains may extend harvesting delays by up to two
weeks in some Australian growing regions, according to GrainCorp
Ltd., eastern Australia’s largest grain handler.  “We’re seeing negative weather out of Australia, in terms
of quality,”  Michael Pitts , commodity sales director at
National Australia Bank Ltd., said by phone from Sydney.
“There’s also the continued dryness” in the U.S., he said.  Wheat for March delivery gained 5.25 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to $6.925 a bushel at 1:14 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board
of Trade. The grain has jumped 44 percent since the end of June
as the worst Russian drought in a half-century curbed production
and caused the country to ban cereal exports.  Australia, the fourth-largest wheat exporter, will increase
sales of feed-grade supplies this season as rainfall cuts the
quality of the harvest, AWB Ltd., the country’s largest shipper,
said Nov. 16.  Milling wheat for January delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris advanced 0.8 percent to 220 euros ($289.28) a metric ton.  Corn and soybeans climbed in Chicago on speculation dry
weather in Argentina will further delay planting and reduce
output amid signs of increasing demand from importers. The
weather will be drier than normal in the next 10 days, limiting
crop development, T-Storm’s Tannura said.  Corn for March delivery rose 2.5 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$5.555 a bushel. The grain has advanced 34 percent this year,
partly because dry weather in August curbed U.S. production.  Soybeans for January delivery gained 2 cents, or 0.2
percent, to $12.405 a bushel. The oilseed has jumped 12 percent
since the end of September on rising Chinese demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 