-- Wheat Futures Extend Rally in Kansas City on Adverse Weather; Rice Gains
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-30T21:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/wheat-futures-rise-on-renewed-concern-rains-in-australia-to-delay-harvest.html
Wheat futures rose for the fourth
straight session in Kansas City as adverse weather in countries
including Australia and the U.S. may curb global grain supplies.
Rice also gained.  As much as 30 percent of the crop in New South Wales,
Australia’s biggest wheat-producing state, may be downgraded to
feed grade, suitable only for animals, because of excessive
rain, said Peter Matthews, a specialist at Industry & Investment
NSW. In the U.S., dry weather in the western Great Plains has
threatened winter crops.  “In Australia, they’ve had a little bit of wet weather,
and that’s causing harvest delays,” said  Dan Kuechenmeister ,
the manager of the commodities department at RBC Dain Rauscher
in Minneapolis. “The weather in the U.S. is still a little
concerning, because we’re looking at dry conditions across the
hard-red winter-wheat belt.”  Wheat futures for March delivery rose 3 cents, or 0.4
percent, to close at $7.455 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Kansas
City Board of Trade. The price gained 2.5 percent in four
sessions. In November, the grain dropped 5.2 percent, snapping a
five-month rally.  The hard-red winter variety, used in bread, trades in
Kansas City.  On the Chicago Board of Trade, wheat futures for March
delivery were unchanged at $6.905 a bushel. The price dropped
3.7 percent in November. The benchmark has climbed 44 percent
since the end of June on lower output from Russia and Canada.  Fields in southeast Australia may get 0.5 inch (1.3
centimeters) of rain today, AccuWeather Inc. said.  ‘Moderate’ Drought  Parts of western Kansas, the largest U.S. winter-wheat
growing state, and eastern Colorado are having “moderate”
 drought  after getting 25 percent of normal  rainfall  this month,
according to data from the University of Nebraska in Lincoln.  Wheat’s gains were limited as the  dollar  climbed against
major currencies and U.S.  equities  dropped after European-debt
concerns escalated, Kuechenmeister said. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials slipped 0.5
percent.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  Rice Climbs  Rice rose on speculation that the U.S. Department of
Agriculture will lower its forecast for domestic output after
hot weather this year curbed yields in Arkansas, the biggest
producing state, said  Dennis Delaughter , the owner of
ProgressiveFutures.com in Edna, Texas.  This month, the USDA forecast  production  of 241.6 billion
pounds in the year that began Aug. 1, down 0.3 percent from its
October estimate. The agency is scheduled to update its forecast
on Dec. 10.  “There’s more and more concern about the condition of the
supplies we have after the problems in Arkansas,” Delaughter
said. “It’s one of the worst rice crops yield-wise that we ever
had.”  Rice futures for January delivery jumped 45.5 cents, or 3.4
percent, to $13.88 per 100 pounds on the CBOT, the biggest gain
since Oct. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  