-- Two-Cent Chewing Tobacco for Kids Spreads Oral Cancer in India
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2010-11-29T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/two-cent-chewing-tobacco-for-kids-spreads-oral-cancer-in-india.html
Safiq Shaikh was 13 when he began
chewing a blend of tobacco and spices that jolted him awake when
his job at a textile loom got too dreary. Five years later,
doctors in Mumbai lopped off his tongue to halt the cancer that
was spreading through his mouth.  Shaikh believed the fragrant, granular mixture he chewed,
known in India as  gutka , was a harmless stimulant and at first
he ignored the milky lump growing inside his mouth. Now Shaikh
is one of about 200,000 Indians diagnosed with a tobacco-related
malignancy this year, says his surgeon, Pankaj Chaturvedi.  India has the highest number of oral cancers in the world
after a group of entrepreneurs known locally as “gutka barons”
turned a 400-year-old tobacco product hand-rolled in betel
leaves into a spicy blend sold for 2 cents on street corners
from Bangalore to New Delhi. Sales of chewing tobacco, worth
210.3 billion rupees ($4.6 billion) in 2004, are on track to
double by 2014, according to  Datamonitor , a branch of the
international research firm based in Hyderabad, India.  “Now you have an industrial version of a traditional
thing” spurring demand, said Chaturvedi, who works at  Tata
Memorial Hospital  in Mumbai, Asia’s largest cancer treatment
center, and draws  cartoons  to warn of tobacco’s dangers in his
spare time. “By the time you are experimenting with this
product, you become the slave of the industry.”  India had almost 70,000 diagnosed cases of cancers of the
mouth in 2008, the highest in the world ahead of the U.S. at
23,000 cases, according to  statistics  compiled by the World
Health Organization’s International Agency for Research on
Cancer.  Selling Near Schools  “I have seen many children who started chewing gutka when
they were 8 or 10 years old and got cancer in their teens,”
Chaturvedi said as patients with tubes protruding from their
throats and swollen jaws awaited their turn outside his office.  Gutka is sold at street stalls across India in bright
rectangular pouches. Once opened, the powder emits a spicy
smell. Inside the mouth, it has the consistency of gravel and
creates a tingling sensation on the tongue. It’s the  abrasion of
the mouth’s lining  that can accelerate the effect of nicotine
and cancer-causing chemicals, according to Dhirendra
Sinha, a technical officer for  tobacco control  at the WHO’s New
Delhi office.  Street vendors crowd around schools, breaking Indian law,
which prohibits the sale of tobacco products within 100 yards of
educational institutions, says Devika Chadha, a program director
at the  Salaam Bombay Foundation , a nonprofit organization that
works with schools to educate children about tobacco’s dangers.  ‘Can’t Quit’  In Khetwadi, a low-income neighborhood in Mumbai, on a
recent morning, three street vendors had set up their stalls
about 55 yards from  Sant Gadge Maharaj College  as students
gathered near the school gates. Javeed Shaikh, 21, says he began
chewing gutka three years ago and now consumes two or three
packets a day.  “I’m trying to quit and it’s hard,” he said as he sat on
a motorcycle chatting with friends. The habit is easy to sustain
with “all these shops,” he said, pointing at the street
stalls. He isn’t related to Safiq Shaikh.  The  combination of tobacco and areca nut  makes gutka and
its hand-made ancestor, known as paan, addictive, scientists
say. Areca nut is the fourth-most commonly used psychoactive
substance in the world after tobacco, alcohol and caffeine,
according to the Geneva-based  WHO .  ‘Mystery Ingredients’  Manufacturers like to keep gutka’s other  ingredients  a
mystery. Rajendra Malu, who owns the brand called “Jhee,” says
a pouch contains three-fourths areca nut, 12 percent tobacco
flakes and proprietary fragrances he won’t disclose.  A chemical analysis of gutka highlighted in a 2008  report 
from the WHO found that it contains chromium, nickel, arsenic
and lead as well as tobacco-related nitrosamines, all of which
are known carcinogens.  Malu estimates he sold 250 million packets last year from
his manufacturing plant in the western state of Gujarat. He
shrugs at the mention of a link between gutka and cancer.  “I have been chewing tobacco for the last 37 years and I
am not suffering from anything,” he said from the living room
of his apartment in Mumbai’s Prabha Devi neighbourhood.  While gutka is mostly used in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh
and Sri Lanka, its  reach is worldwide  because of migration,
according to the International Agency for Research on Cancer.  “The practice of areca nut chewing and the presence of
oral precancerous lesions are spreading from South Asia to the
Western countries, with the potential of becoming a major public
health issue,” researchers at the University of British
Columbia in Vancouver wrote in a  commentary  published last year.  Tobacco Companies  More youngsters are picking up the habit. A survey of 1,500
teenagers in Mumbai aged 13 to 15 found that double the students
identified themselves as tobacco chewers compared with a decade
ago, according to  Healis , a public health research institute.  That’s not just true in India. The number of U.S. teenage
boys using smokeless tobacco went up to 4.4 percent from 3.4
percent between 2002 and 2007, according to a  nationwide survey 
published by the Department of Health and Human Services.  Tobacco companies such as  Philip Morris International Inc. 
and  British American Tobacco Plc  are selling more nicotine
products that are sucked, not burned, in response to smoking
bans. The situation in India could be a harbinger of the global
risks posed by smokeless products, says Saman Warnakulasuriya, a
professor of oral medicine at King’s College London.  Altria Group Inc., which sells Marlboro cigarettes in the
U.S., last month said profit had exceeded analysts’ estimates,
helped by rising shipments of smokeless tobacco.  “There’s movement of consumption,” Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Szymanczyk  in an Oct. 20 conference call. “Some
of that movement is people smoking fewer cigarettes and using
smokeless tobacco as an alternative.”  Smokeless, Not Harmless  A spokesman for Altria,  Bill Phelps , declined to comment
and deferred to a  statement  found on Philip Morris USA’s website
that says public health authorities found smokeless tobacco
products are addictive and can cause cancer, heart problems and
diseases of the mouth, gums and teeth.  A British American Tobacco spokeswoman,  Kate Matrunola ,
said some smokeless tobacco products like Swedish snus are less
damaging than cigarettes, though “smokeless does not mean
harmless.”  Earlier this month, delegates from governments of 171
countries, including India, agreed at the latest session of the
 WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control  to regulate
flavouring ingredients that are used to lure youngsters and
focus more on control and prevention of smokeless tobacco.  Breath Freshener  In India, billboards, television commercials and even
 public transport buses  around Mumbai advertise a fragrant
chewable product close to gutka in texture and taste called pan
masala. The difference: it contains no tobacco and it’s promoted
as a breath freshener. The price, packets and street sellers are
almost identical, though, increasing the confusion about which
product is which, says Prakash Gupta, who heads the non-profit
research firm Healis.  Godfrey Philips India Ltd. , which is 25.1 percent-owned by
Philip Morris International, began selling its own version of
pan masala this year.  Gutka, whose name is derived from a Punjabi word meaning
“a miniature version of Sikhism’s holy book of scriptures,”
has a health warning on the packet and the image of a scorpion
to indicate its use has been linked to cancer.  That’s not effective enough, says Jagdish Kaur, chief
medical officer at the tobacco control unit of India’s  Ministry
of Health and Family Welfare , and a new set of tobacco warning
labels with graphic images of mouth cancer has been approved.  People “need to be very clearly told” about the risks,
Kaur said in a telephone interview. “It cannot be just a
scorpion or butterfly or whatever.”  Gutka’s Roots  Gutka first appeared in the 1970s, when a New Delhi paan
seller began giving clients a ready-made version of paan,
according to Malu. Unlike paan, gutka doesn’t stain the mouth
pink or leave the hands sticky. It’s also easy to store and
transport.  “Selling it in packets has revolutionized the sale of
smokeless tobacco in India,” says Babu Mathew, a dental surgeon
who headed the  Trivandrum Oral Cancer Screening project , which
followed 200,000 residents of the southern Indian state of
Kerala for 15 years.  Mathew says he has seen multiple cases of patients
developing cancers five or 10 years after starting on gutka.  Cancer Connection  A panel convened by the WHO’s International Agency for
Research on Cancer  found  in 2004 that areca nut caused cancer in
animal studies, and that in humans it triggers the development
of precancerous lesions. Tobacco, meantime, brings on genetic
mutations that can lead to cancer.  Doctors point to three reasons why gutka bring on cancer
much faster than cigarettes or 400-year-old paan. Both tobacco
and areca nut play a role, say Mathew and Tata Memorial’s
Chaturvedi.  The tobacco in gutka releases cancer-causing chemicals
called  nitrosamines  in the mouth. In paan, they are neutralized
in part by the fresh betel leaf, a benefit that gutka lacks,
according to Mathew.  The chemicals in areca nut, meantime, stimulate the
production of collagen, a protein that causes the mouth’s
muscles to thicken, says Warnakulasuriya of King’s College
London. At the same time, the coarse chunks of areca nut rub
against the gums and cause tiny injuries that expose the blood
vessels in the mouth, a trauma that can take several hours to
heal, according to Chaturvedi.  “This injury and healing process is going on for 24
hours,” and over time it makes the inner lining of the mouth
very stiff, Chaturvedi says.  Tight Mouths  The muscles in the mouth eventually lose their ability to
stretch, resulting in a pre-cancerous condition called  oral
submucous fibrosis .  “From an uncommon disease found mainly among old persons
in India, oral submucous fibrosis is emerging as a new epidemic
mainly among the youth,” according to a  2004 report  by India’s
Ministry for Health and Family Affairs and the World Health
Organization.  Patients who previously could grab a sizable chunk of an
apple in a single bite are able to open their mouth to just
about the size of a grape.  “Before I could put four fingers inside, now I can only
put two,” said Aqeel Shaikh, 32, Safiq’s older brother. Shaikh
says he chewed six packets of gutka a day for six years before
he gave up the habit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adi Narayan  in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  