-- Woodside Delays Pluto LNG Start, Raises Cost Estimate 7% to $13.5 Billion
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-30T05:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/woodside-delays-pluto-lng-start-raises-cost-estimate-7-to-13-5-billion.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. , Australia’s
second-largest oil producer, said its Pluto liquefied natural
gas venture will cost A$900 million ($867 million) more and
start about six months later than previously projected.  Spending on the Western Australia LNG project is estimated
at A$14 billion, up almost 7 percent from a prior forecast of
A$13.1 billion, Woodside said in a statement today. The company
attributed the delay to a contractor’s failure to meet design
specifications for towers used to burn off excess gas.  Woodside has sought to make Pluto the fastest project of
its kind built, with the initial discovery of the gas field in
2005 and a decision to proceed with the venture in 2007. More
than a dozen proposed LNG developments in Australia and Papua
New Guinea are competing for customers and skilled workers.  “What we tried is unheard of in the LNG industry -- a
mega-project accelerated to put us at a leading, competitive
advantage,” Chief Executive Officer  Don Voelte  said on a
conference call with analysts and reporters. “Even with this
delay, we still have this advantage.”  The project will be ready to start in August 2011, with the
first exports scheduled a month after it begins, the Perth-based
company said.  Woodside  previously expected Pluto to start by the
end of February, with first exports before April.  CEO ‘Disappointed’  Woodside said last month it was dismantling parts of the
flare towers because they didn’t meet requirements. The towers
are being replaced, it said today.  Roger Martin , a Woodside
spokesman, said the contractor is John Zink Co., part of
Wichita, Kansas-based Koch Industries Inc., according to its
website. Koch spokeswoman  Katie Stavinoha  said she couldn’t
immediately comment when reached by phone after hours.  Labor disputes also have disrupted construction at the
project site in the town of Karratha.  “We’re disappointed with this,” Voelte said on the call.
“We wish we didn’t have the problem.”  Mark Greenwood , a Sydney-based analyst at Citigroup Inc.,
said last week he expected Woodside to delay the start of the
Pluto development until the middle of the third quarter of 2011.
Citigroup estimated costs may rise by $360 million.  Woodside  rose 0.6 percent to A$41.95 by the market’s 4:10
p.m. close in Sydney. The benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index  dropped
0.7 percent.  It’s the second time Woodside has increased its projection
of Pluto costs, after saying in November 2009 that the expenses
would rise by as much as A$1.1 billion to about A$13 billion.  ‘Execution Challenges’  Moody’s Investors Service today said there were “execution
challenges associated with Pluto.” The latest cost increase
“places additional pressure on the company’s credit profile and
further constrains its flexibility” within the Baa1 rating,  Ian Lewis , a Moody’s vice president, said in a statement.  Woodside’s cost increase “was a bit more” than expected,
 Di Brookman , an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Sydney,
said by phone. She had anticipated an increase of about A$500
million.  The company has deferred a decision on expanding Pluto to
next year after its exploration campaign to find more gas off
Australia progressed slower than anticipated.  Woodside  said drilling is expected to provide the gas to
add capacity at Pluto and anticipates an expansion unit would be
ready to start by the end of 2014. The Australian company
intends to own 90 percent to 95 percent of an additional unit.  Browse on Target  Woodside’s proposed Browse LNG venture in Australia remains
on schedule to reach a final investment decision by mid-2012,
the company said. Talks to sell Woodside’s share of the Browse
fuel continue with potential Asia-Pacific customers, and a
preliminary accord with  CPC Corp.  of Taiwan has been extended to
allow discussions to complete the transaction to continue into
next year.  “We don’t see any obstacles we cannot overcome,” Voelte
said. “We will not build something that doesn’t meet our value
system and at this point we see nothing in the road that will
stop us from building” at the site in Western Australia.  Woodside and its partners early this year chose a site in
the Kimberley region to process gas from the Browse field to
meet an Australian government deadline. The Western Australian
government moved to take over the site for the venture following
the failure of local indigenous groups with claims to the land
to reach agreement, Premier  Colin Barnett  said Sept. 2.  Woodside ranks as the country’s second-largest oil and gas
producer after Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd.   To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 