-- World Leaders, Royals, Beckham Set for Last-Week World Cup Push
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-29T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/world-leaders-royals-beckham-set-for-last-week-world-cup-hosting-drive.html
World leaders, royalty and soccer
celebrities such as  David Beckham  travel to Zurich this week
for last-ditch lobbying on behalf of their nations’ bids to
host the World Cup in 2018 or 2022.  Soccer’s governing body, FIFA, will decide Dec. 2 where
sport’s most-watched event takes place. Before that, former U.S.
President Bill Clinton, the U.K.’s  Prince William  and the Emir
of Qatar will try to charm the 22 voters on FIFA’s executive
committee.  The decision is worth billions of dollars to hosts,
sponsors and FIFA, a not-for-profit organization that gets most
of its income from sales related to the quadrennial tournament.
The U.S., one of five candidates for 2022, says a World Cup
generates about $5 billion.  “If somebody has decided that he will go with a candidate,
this endorsement of interest by royalty or the prime minister
or the president of the country really tells you not to have
any other thoughts in the last minute,”  Marios Lefkaritis , a
delegate on the FIFA body that makes the decision, said in an
interview. The Cypriot declined to say who he’ll vote for.  Australia, Qatar, Japan and South Korea make up the
remaining 2022 candidates. The 2018 race is all-European as
England competes with Russia and joint offers from
Spain/Portugal and the Netherlands/Belgium. Brazil hosts the
2014 tournament.  A majority vote is required. If that isn’t immediately
attained the lowest-scoring bids are eliminated in further
voting rounds.  Putin, Cameron  Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and  David Cameron  of
the U.K. will be among statesmen trying to drum up support.
Former England captain Beckham will be out to boost his
nation’s cause, while  Ruud Gullit  will be among ex-players
attending for the Netherlands/Belgium.  Landon Donovan  will be
there for the U.S.  Chuck Blazer , the U.S. soccer official on the committee,
said the final week is crucial. He’s backing his country for
2022 but hasn’t decided on his vote for 2018.  “For most people who’ve already made their case, they
want to make sure they don’t do anything wrong, and at the same
time you want to solidify and enhance the positions you already
made and to convince those you haven’t been able to convince
before,” Blazer said in an interview. “That puts an awful lot
of importance in that week, doesn’t it?”  Suspensions  The build-up has been overshadowed by a corruption enquiry
sparked by London’s Sunday Times. In October, the newspaper
said the votes of two executive-panel members could be bought
and reported an alleged vote-sharing pact between Qatar and
Spain/Portugal, which denied the allegations.  A FIFA ethics panel reduced the original 24-member
decision-making body to 22 after suspending Nigeria’s  Amos Adamu  and Tahitian Reynald Temarii. It couldn’t find sufficient
proof of the alleged collusion between the bidding nations.  The media glare helped to focus the minds of some voters,
Lefkaritis said.  “I try sometimes to take it out of my mind but it’s not
so easy,” he said. “I fully understand the interest of the
media now. At one stage I really misunderstood it. I thought,
‘Why do they put so much pressure on us by asking all these
questions’ but now I fully understand.”  U.K. bookmaker William Hill Plc makes Russia the 4-6
favorite for 2018, so a successful six-pound ($9.40) bet would
show a four-pound profit. England is 9-4, Spain/Portugal 3-1
and the Netherlands/Belgium 50-1.  Arm-Wrestling  FIFA published a technical evaluation of the nine bids
earlier this month. FIFA considers Qatar’s offer “high” in
operational risk, Russia’s “medium” and the others “low”
risk. William Hill still makes Qatar the 4-9 favorite for 2022.
Australia is 3-1, the U.S. 9-2, Japan 33-1 and South Korea 40-1.  Last week U.S. President  Barack Obama  hosted FIFA Vice
President  Issa Hayatou , the head of soccer in Africa. A day
before the final vote Cameron is scheduled to lunch with  Jack Warner , responsible for the game in North and Central America.  Cameron joked about having a physical contest with Putin,
known for his martial-arts interests, to decide the 2018 venue.  “Do you want me to arm-wrestle for it?” Cameron asked the
British Broadcasting Corp.’s “Football Focus” program. “His
exercise regime is probably a bit different to mine, but I’m
not going to challenge him to some iron-man contest. It’s going
to be on the merits of the bid.”  Blair Speech  U.S. committee member Blazer was in Singapore when the
then-U.K. leader Tony Blair made a final-hour speech on behalf
of London’s successful push to land the 2012 Olympic Games.  “Whether anybody has had as much an impact as he has on
any of these types of elections it’s hard to say,” he said. It
was one of the “most effective presences” of any statesman,
he added.  Still, a leader’s presence doesn’t guarantee success. Last
year, Chicago was eliminated in the first round of voting for
the 2016 Olympics hours after Obama made a speech to members of
the International Olympic Committee. Brazil, whose leader  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva was also present, was the victor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  