-- Worst Bond Slump Since May Narrows Putin's Yield Advantage: Russia Credit
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-11-30T15:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/worst-bond-slump-since-may-narrows-putin-s-yield-advantage-russia-credit.html
Russia, the world’s biggest energy
exporter, is losing its borrowing cost advantage over the rest
of emerging market nations as weaker economic growth and faster
inflation send bonds to their biggest monthly slide since May.  The  average yield  on Russian dollar bonds climbed 19 basis
points, or 0.19 percentage point, in November, the biggest
increase in six months, to 5.81 percent, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s Corporate EMBI Russia Blended Yield Index. Russian
government yields are 20 basis points  below  the average of 22
developing nations in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index of
sovereign debt, down from a 15-month high of 105 basis points in
February.  “There is this general unease with Russia,” said  Vladimir Gersamia , who helps manage $2 billion of debt including Russian
government bonds at Threadneedle Asset Management in London.
“The economic recovery is taking too long.”  Russia’s $1.2 trillion economy grew at an annual rate of
2.7 percent in the third quarter, compared with the 9.6 percent
pace in China. Inflation may exceed a government estimate of 8
percent this year, according to the central bank, compared with
4.4 percent in China and 5.2 percent in Brazil in October.  Concern Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading
precipitated declines in emerging-market bond prices this month
as investors trimmed holdings of riskier assets. Ireland secured
an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) aid package this week, six
months after Greece was bailed out.  “When it’s a risk-off mood, Russian bonds are among the
first to be sold,” said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage the
equivalent of $8.5 billion of emerging-market debt at Union
Investments in Frankfurt.  Rising Yields  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 declined for the first
time since May this month, pushing the yield 59 basis points
higher to 5.10 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield has climbed from 4.112 percent on Nov. 4 and is 2
basis points above the level at which the bonds were issued in
April in the country’s first international debt sale since 1998.  The yield difference between the 2020 dollar bonds and
Brazil’s similar-maturity dollar securities widened to 124 basis
points yesterday, the largest gap since April. The yield for
Russia, whose Baa1 credit ratings from Moody’s Investors Service
are two levels above Brazil, was 64 basis points higher than the
Latin American government on Nov. 9.  Russian Eurobonds lost 3 percent in November compared with
the 2.9 percent decline for JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index of foreign-
currency debt from the biggest emerging-market sovereign
borrowers. The country’s bonds returned 8.1 percent year-to-
date, compared with a 12.5 percent gain for Brazil and 15.8
percent for the Philippines, the indexes show.  Spreads, Swaps  The yield on the government’s ruble notes due in August
2016 fell 5 basis points to 7.40 percent and added 23 basis
points during November. The bond yielded 7.08 percent on Oct.
14, the lowest level since it was first offered in August.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries increased 11 basis points to 257
basis points, the highest level since July, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index. The difference compares with 165 basis
points for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 199 basis points
for Brazil.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 5 basis points to 176
points today, the highest since Aug. 31, according to CMA
prices. The contracts, which pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements, rose 26 basis points this month.  Credit-default swaps for Russia cost 22 basis points more
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Turkey’s advantage is the biggest in 11 months. Russia
swaps  cost  as much as 40 points less than Turkey on April 20.  Ruble Rates  The ruble weakened 0.5 percent to 31.5275 per dollar in
Moscow trading today, bringing its decline to 2.2 percent in
November, the biggest monthly drop since May.  Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble at 31.8013 per dollar in three months.  The central bank more than doubled its estimate on Nov. 16
for capital outflows this year to $22 billion. Funds holding
Russian bonds took in less money this month than those for
Brazilian, Indian and Chinese debt, according to Boston-based
research firm EPFR Global.  Russia’s economy will probably grow 3.8 percent this year,
compared with a previous estimate of 4.2 percent, Morgan Stanley
analysts said in a report yesterday. International Monetary Fund
forecasts stand at 7.5 percent for Brazil and 10.5 percent for
China,  according  to its October World Economic Outlook.  Inflation  The annual inflation rate in Russia reached 7.5 percent in
October, the highest since January. Bank Rossii Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  said on Nov. 25 that inflation in Russia may exceed a
government estimate of 8 percent in 2010 after the worst drought
in five decades.  The annual inflation rate in Russia reached 7.5 percent in
October, the highest since January. The rate compared with 4.4
percent in China and 5.2 percent in Brazil.  “Investors do like Russian bonds, but more as a tactical
play, since because of their tremendous liquidity it is very
easy to buy them at low levels and sell them when risk
increases,” Dergachev said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  