-- My Breasts Pass Unchecked by Airport Screeners: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-11-29T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/my-breasts-go-unchecked-by-airport-screeners-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Imagine my horror when I read that
two male Transportation Security Administration agents had
singled out Orlando passenger Eliana Sutherland for further
airport screening because of the size of her breasts.  As a woman, I was offended, outraged, disgusted -- not to
mention jealous. What does Eliana have that I don’t have? No TSA
agent has ever singled me out because of the size and shape of
my breasts or any other body part.  All the outrage about full body scans and pat-downs seems
off the point. What’s the alternative? Yes, we could do it
smarter (TSA, please contact Israel’s Shin Bet immediately).
Absent that, the latest techniques beat getting blown up in an
airplane at 30,000 feet.  In the same  article  where I was introduced to Eliana, I
learned that lots of women have been on the receiving end of
breast stares. What’s so bad about that? There was a time --
think  Marilyn Monroe  -- when women encouraged longing looks from
the opposite sex with cinched-in waists and cups that runneth
over.  The objection to a full body scan from a vocal, 15 percent
of the populace, according to a  CBS Poll , seems even lamer. It’s
hard to imagine the grainy  images  -- about as racy as an X-ray -
-arousing anyone when far more graphic material is available at
a newsstand in most airports.  The TSA employs 56,000 people and has a  budget  of $8.2
billion, with $5.5 billion going toward airport security and
screening. Airlines take security precautions as well. How many
potential terrorists have been snagged by asking travelers,
“Did you pack your own bags?” If you answered zero, you would
be correct. What about, “Has anyone asked you to carry anything
aboard this aircraft?” (Yes, and that ticking sound is driving
me nuts!)  Strip Searches?  One wonders what these employees would do if the passenger
answered “no” in the first instance and “yes” in the second.
Probably ask a supervisor.  In the same way the U.S. enacts new regulations to make
sure the last financial crisis doesn’t happen again, it excels
at preventing a recurrence of the last terrorist attack. We
haven’t had another shoe bomber since  Richard Reid  attempted to
blow up a plane in 2002 because we dutifully remove our shoes
before going through security.  Shoe bomber is to shoe removal as underwear bomber is to X?
The  TSA  couldn’t quite bring itself to institute strip searches
after  Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab  tried to light up the skies last
Christmas with a pair of explosive-packed  Jockey shorts .  Find the Bomber  Could we do smarter security? Of course. We could learn a
few things from the Israelis, maybe even outsource airport
security to the Shin Bet, Israel’s domestic security agency,
which is charged with protecting El Al, the national airline.  Ben-Gurion International Airport outside Tel Aviv has been
recognized as the safest in the world. By the time passengers
arrive at the airport, Israeli security agents know who they’re
looking for. The screening process begins when a ticket is
booked.  Israel employs ethnic profiling, spending more time
interviewing a young Arab male with a one-way ticket paid for in
cash than an elderly Jewish grandmother or Hebrew University
students off on a summer holiday. Muslim Arabs may be singled
out unfairly, but they’re the ones committed to the destruction
of the Jewish state. It’s this same group -- albeit a small
minority --that’s targeting the U.S.  Another thing: Israeli security agents are highly trained
military veterans. They aren’t looking for box cutters, toe nail
scissors, liquid explosives or undergarments altered to
accommodate more than one’s private parts. Israel’s strategy is
to “find the bomber, not the bomb,” as the saying goes.
Practical necessity trumps political correctness.  Bright Side  El Al has at least one plainclothes armed marshal on all
its flights. In 30 years it can boast a perfect record of no
hijackings or hijacking attempts.  Even the lame questions we submit to in the U.S. yield
better results in Israeli hands. In 1986, El Al screeners at
London’s Heathrow Airport intercepted an unwitting bomber when a
32-year-old Irish woman answered “no” to packing her own bags
and flubbed the follow-ups. It turned out her suitor, a
Palestinian extremist, had given her a one-way ticket to Israel,
a promise of marriage and a carry-on bag of explosives.  Israel has clearly figured out what works in a small nation
surrounded by enemies. With two airports and 50 flights a day,
it’s easier to manage than the U.S.’s 450 airports and thousands
of daily flights.  Still I’m sure the U.S. would benefit from our Middle East
ally’s experience under fire.  In the meantime, surly travelers need to find alternate
means of transportation or adopt a better attitude toward
airport security.  I, for one, am relieved to go through the full body scanner
for the simple reason that it means I’m done with airport
security. I can put on my shoes, collect my separately bagged
liquids, proceed to the departure gate, buy something to drink
and begin the interminable wait for my flight. If I had worn a
push-up bra, I might still be back at the starting gate.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  