-- Hyundai E&C Falls as Hyundai Group Signing Damps Hopes Deal May Collapse
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-11-29T09:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-29/hyundai-e-c-falls-as-hyundai-group-signing-damps-hopes-deal-may-collapse.html
Hyundai Engineering & Construction
Co. , South Korea’s biggest builder, tumbled in Seoul trading
after Hyundai Group signed a preliminary agreement to buy a
controlling stake, damping speculation the deal may fall apart.  The  construction company  fell 2.6 percent to close at
60,900 won. It earlier rose as much as 5.4 percent to 65,900 won
after Hyundai Motor Group, which had made a competing offer,
said Hyundai Group should be stripped of its preferred bidder
status for the 35 percent stake because of funding concerns.  The  shareholders  offering to sell the stock today said they
will set a deadline for Hyundai Group to provide a copy of a 1.2
trillion won ($1 billion) loan agreement and other information
showing how it will pay for the stake. Hyundai Group may have to
sell some of the builder’s most profitable units to fund the
deal, analysts including Mirae Asset Securities Co.’s  Byun Sung Jin  have said.  “It’s up to Hyundai Group to provide transparent
information that will help clear some of the concerns in the
market,” said Seoul-based Byun. “We still can’t be certain
that the talks will go smoothly.”  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. , Hyundai Group’s largest unit,
plunged 7 percent, the biggest drop in almost two weeks, to
close at 35,850 won. The shipping line has tumbled 20 percent
since Hyundai Group was named preferred bidder for the Hyundai
Engineering stake on Nov. 16. The group offered about 5.5
trillion won, two people familiar with the matter said on Nov.
16. That’s more than double the market price.  Natixis Loan  The shareholders have asked Hyundai Group to show it didn’t
put up any collateral against the 1.2 trillion won loan, which
was from Natixis SA,  Ryu Jae Han , president of Korea Finance
Corp., told reporters in Seoul today. The state-run agency, the
largest shareholder in Hyundai Engineering, is among those
selling stakes.  The shareholders will make an official request for more
information, probably within the next few days, Ryu said.
Hyundai Group will then have five working days to respond.  “If Hyundai Group doesn’t provide sufficient information
within the given timeframe, the initial agreement may no longer
be effective and the group could lose its status as the
preferred bidder,” Ryu said.  Hyundai Group will do all it can to help ease passage of
the deal, it said in a statement. It previously pledged to
provide more details after signing the preliminary agreement.
The selling shareholders, which include  Korea Exchange Bank ,
made a second request for information last week after calling a
first response “insufficient.”  The final deal may be signed in January, according to a
statement from Korea Exchange Bank today.  Family Battle  The takeover battle has pitted Hyundai Group chairwoman
 Hyun Jeong Eun  against her late husband’s brother Hyundai Motor
Group head  Chung Mong Koo . The automaking group split off from
the main Hyundai Group in 2000, after Hyun’s husband was named
heir over his elder brother.  Creditors seized control of Hyundai Engineering, previously
the Hyundai Group’s flagship, in 2001 as the builder struggled
with debts. These creditors are now selling their stakes.  Hyundai Motor Group will review today’s agreement before
considering any further steps, said Executive Vice President Kim
Bong Kyung. The company, parent of South Korea’s largest
automaker, offered about 400 billion won less than Hyundai Group
for the Hyundai Engineering stake, the people familiar said on
Nov. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 