-- Obama Must Boost U.S. Cyber Security, Report Says
-- Gopal Ratnam
-- 2008-12-08T22:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-12-08/obama-must-boost-u-s-cyber-security-report-says-update1-.html

          
          
             President-elect  Barack Obama  must
bolster the security of U.S. computer and digital networks to
prevent attacks that more than doubled in fiscal 2007 from a year
earlier, a panel of experts said in a report today. A new White
House office must coordinate the government’s efforts, it said.  
 “America’s failure to protect cyberspace is one of the
most urgent national security problems facing the new
administration,” according to the report by the  Center for
Strategic and International Studies , a Washington think tank.
Preventing attacks on  computer networks  is “a battle fought
mainly in the shadows. It is a battle we are losing.”  
 U.S. government and private computer networks were breached
37,000 times during fiscal 2007, compared with 24,000 break-ins
the previous year, the report said citing statistics from the
Department of  Homeland Security . Attacks on federal computer
systems more than doubled to 12,986 in 2007 from 5,143, it said.  
 Obama must create a new White House office that will
coordinate the activities of the National Security Council, the
Pentagon, intelligence agencies, the Department of Homeland
Security and private companies to create a “comprehensive
national security strategy for cyberspace,” the report said.  
 The report, entitled “Securing Cyberspace for the 44th
Presidency,” was prepared in consultation with government and
private-sector experts. Co-chairs of the study were
Representatives Jim Langevin, Democrat of  Rhode Island , and
Michael McCaul, Republican of  Texas .  
 ‘Go-to Document’  
 The Obama administration’s cyber-security effort must be
judged against the report’s recommendations, said Langevin, a
member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.  
 “Because this study is so comprehensive, this is going to
be the go-to document,” Langevin said today in an interview. If
necessary the House may pass legislation to create the new White
House office, he said.  
 Attacks in 2007 included unknown “foreign entities”
hacking into the U.S. Defense Secretary’s unclassified e-mail
system, foreign militaries and intelligence services breaking
into Defense Department and private-sector computers to steal
military technologies and intellectual property, the report said.  
 In addition to creating an office to oversee cyber security,
the Obama administration must invest in research and development
to build new systems, develop new regulations mandating standards
for protection, and build a partnership with private companies,
the report said.  
 The cyber-security effort led by the White House must be
similar to U.S. nuclear non-proliferation efforts where no single
government agency is in charge of all activities, the report
said.  
 For Related News:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        