-- China Is in Midst of `Greatest Bubble in History,' ex-LTCM's Rickards Says
-- Bei Hu
-- 2010-03-17T12:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-17/china-is-in-midst-of-greatest-bubble-in-history-ex-ltcm-s-rickards-says.html

          
          
             China is in the midst of "the
greatest bubble in history," said James Rickards, former
general counsel of hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management LP.  
 The Chinese central bank's balance sheet resembles that of
a hedge fund buying dollars and short-selling the yuan, said
Rickards, now the senior managing director for market
intelligence at McLean, Virginia-based consulting firm Omnis Inc.  
 "As I see it, it is the greatest bubble in history with
the most massive misallocation of wealth," Rickards said at the
Asset Allocation Summit Asia 2010 organized by Terrapinn Pte in
Hong Kong yesterday. China "is a bubble waiting to burst."  
 Rickards joins hedge fund manager Jim Chanos, Gloom, Boom &
Doom publisher Marc Faber and Harvard University professor
Kenneth Rogoff in warning of a potential crash in China's
economy. The government has raised banks' reserve requirements
twice this year after economic growth accelerated and property
prices rallied.  
 China has pegged the yuan to the dollar since July 2008 to
help exporters weather the global recession. The central bank
buys dollars and sells its own currency to prevent the yuan
strengthening, driving foreign-exchange reserves to a world-
record $2.4 trillion as of December.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index of stocks jumped 80 percent
last year and property prices rose at the fastest pace in almost
two years in February, helped by a record 9.59 trillion yuan
($1.4 trillion) of new loans in 2009.  
 'Massive Stimulus'  
 The World Bank indicated today that China should raise
interest rates to help contain the risk of a property bubble and
allow a stronger yuan to help damp inflation expectations. The
nation's "massive monetary stimulus" risks triggering large
asset-price increases, a housing bubble, and bad debts from the
financing of local-government projects, Washington-based World
Bank said in a quarterly report on China released in Beijing.  
 "People making comments about bubbles possibly don't have
all the facts," HSBC Holdings Plc Chief Executive Officer
Michael Geoghegan said in Shanghai today. Regulators are in
control of the banking industry, and have the ability to curb
lending as needed, he said.  
 Rickards said leveraged speculation in the stock market,
wasteful allocation of resources by state-owned enterprises,
off-balance-sheet debt through regional governments and the
country's human rights record are concerns.  
 "Take Russia and China together, neither of them is really
deserving any investment" except for short-term speculation,
Rickards said. India and Brazil are two of the "real
economies" among the developing countries, he said.  
 Hard Landing  
 China is poised to overtake Japan as the world's second-
largest economy this year, according to the International
Monetary Fund, and Nomura Holdings Inc. forecasts it will
contribute more than a third of global growth. The nation has
surpassed the U.S. as the world's largest auto market and
Germany as the No. 1 exporter.  
 Harvard's Rogoff said Feb. 23 that a debt-fueled bubble in
China may trigger a regional recession within a decade, while
Chanos, founder of New York-based Kynikos Associates Ltd.,
predicted a slump after excessive property investments.  
 Investors Bob Doll and Antoine van Agtmael say China's
stock market isn't a bubble.  
 Equities will gain by the end of the year as the government
takes measures to prevent the economy from overheating, Doll,
BlackRock Inc.'s chief investment officer for global equities,
said on March 5. China is unlikely to face "chaos" or
experience a hard landing, Van Agtmael, who helps manage $13
billion as chairman and chief investment officer of Emerging
Markets Management LLC,  said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday.  
 Lending Slowdown  
 The Shanghai Composite Index is valued at 32 times reported
earnings, compared with 52 times at its peak in October 2007.
The U.S. benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 Index trades at 19
times earnings.  
 China's economic growth quickened to 10.7 percent last
quarter, helped by a 4 trillion yuan, two-year stimulus plan for
railways, airports and homes. Property prices in 70 cities rose
10.7 percent from a year earlier in February.  
 Bank loans slowed to 700 billion yuan last month after
surging more in January than the previous three months combined,
central bank data showed. Growth of the broadest measure of
money supply, or M2, slowed for a third month to 25.5 percent.  
 'Very Sound'  
 The banking industry has "very low impairment charges
compared to what you'd expect this time in the cycle," HSBC's
Geoghegan said. "I wouldn't be surprised if there's a gradual
increase in impairments, but long term I'm confident that the
structure of the banking industry is very, very sound."  
 Rickards disputed an argument that China could hold U.S.
policies hostage through its Treasuries holdings. The nation
remained the largest overseas owner of U.S. debt after trimming
its holdings by $5.8 billion in January to $889 billion.  
 China would suffer massive losses if the debt was dumped,
reducing the funds available in the U.S. securities market and
forcing the prices lower, he said. The U.S. president also has
the authority, rarely used, to freeze such positions, he said.  
 Rickards worked for LTCM between 1994 and 1999 and helped
to negotiate its rescue by 14 Wall Street firms after the fund
lost $4 billion in a few weeks in 1998. The Federal Reserve
brokered the bailout on concern that LTCM's collapse would cause
a meltdown in financial markets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          March 16 (Bloomberg) -- Gabriel Wallach, head of global emerging market equities at Fortis Investments, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li and Paul Gordon about the outlook for emerging market stocks and his investment strategy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
