-- Cisco to outline long-term growth strategy next week
-- By  Ritsuko Ando
-- Fri Sep 12, 2008 7:54pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/09/12/businesspro-cisco-analystday-dc-idUSN1241552420080912

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Top U.S. network equipment maker Cisco 
Systems Inc ( CSCO.O ) is set to outline its long-term growth 
strategy in an analyst meeting next Tuesday, with investors 
focused on when and how it will shake off the slowdown in U.S. 
technology spending. 

  Chief Executive John Chambers is expected to reassure the 
market that Cisco will eventually return to its annual revenue 
growth target of 12 to 17 percent as increasing Internet 
traffic boosts sales of routers and switches, analysts said, 
even if it has fallen short in recent quarters.  He also is expected to highlight progress in new 
technologies such as Cisco's high-definition, Web-based video 
conferencing system called TelePresence, and its data center 
virtualization services.  Cisco has grown into a $40 billion business from $1 billion 
since Chambers took the CEO role in 1995, and analysts credit 
his ability to seize growth opportunities through acquisitions 
and development of new technologies.  "As in years past, we believe Cisco will underscore its 
ability to capture market transitions, while identifying and 
quantifying future opportunities," Lehman Brothers analyst Jeff 
Kvaal said in a report this week.  "Specifically, we look for management to dig deeper into 
its data center strategy," he said.  Cisco said in a statement earlier this week that executives 
would provide overviews of the company's financial "roadmap" 
and long-term strategy, which focuses on innovation  through collaboration, virtualization and video.  Data center "virtualization," or using advanced 
technologies to run networks and servers more efficiently, is 
seen as a key growth area for Cisco as large businesses, and 
Internet and telecommunications service providers upgrade their 
facilities to handle increasing Internet use.  Cisco stepped up its foray into data center virtualization 
by taking a small stake in VMware Inc ( VMW.N ) in 2007. VMware's 
virtualization software allows one machine to do the work of 
multiple computers by running "virtual" servers.  The analyst meeting comes amid worries about the U.S. 
banking sector and fears of a prolonged economic slump, with 
recent data showing the U.S. jobless rate at a 5-year high.  While routers and switches are still the core of Cisco's 
business, Standard & Poor's analyst Ari Bensinger said that 
with the company already the dominant vendor in those areas, 
interest is shifting to other areas.  "Routing and switching... there's not much room for more 
market share in terms of those markets," said Bensinger. 
"They're basically mature."
  TARGETS AND ACQUISITIONS  Goldman Sachs analyst Simona Jankowski earlier this week 
said the conference could provide a "positive catalyst" for the 
shares, which are down 28 percent from a year earlier.  On the other hand, any comment from Chambers suggesting a 
prolonged slowdown would come as a blow. The company has 
forecast 8 percent annual revenue growth in the current quarter 
and 8.5 percent the next. Revenue rose around 10 percent in the 
past two quarters.  Some analysts have said that Cisco may need to acquire more 
companies to achieve that sales growth target.  Acquisitions have been a key part of the San Jose, 
California-based company's growth, including its 2006 purchase 
of cable set-top box maker Scentific-Atlanta and a deal last 
year for Web conferencing services firm WebEx.  With over $20 billion in cash and fixed income securities 
at the end of its last quarter ended July, analysts say it 
certainly has the means.  Rumored targets include VMWare and its majority owner and 
data storage company EMC Corp ( EMC.N ), as well as Cisco's 
smaller and more specialized rivals like Brocade Communications 
Systems Inc ( BRCD.O ). Cisco has declined comment on such 
speculation.  (Editing by Carol Bishopric)