-- Fujitsu Sues Tellabs on Optical Communications Patent
-- Cary O'Reilly
-- 2008-01-29T21:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-29/fujitsu-sues-tellabs-on-optical-communications-patent-update2-.html

          
          
             Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) , Japan's largest
provider of computer services, sued Tellabs Inc. over patents on
a type of optical communications for  computer networks .  
 Tellabs is infringing Fujitsu patents covering an optical
amplifier with a ``pumping light beam'' that improves two-way
transmission of data over fiber-optic networks, according to a
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Tyler,  Texas .  
 Fujitsu, based in  Tokyo , is seeking an order barring Tellabs
from infringing its patents plus unspecified cash compensation.  
 ``Fujitsu has been investing heavily for years in research
and development and owns approximately 10,000 patents in the
field of optical communications around the world,'' Masanobu
Katoh, head of the company's intellectual property unit, said in
a statement. ``We consider our intellectual property to be
valuable company assets and are committed to protecting and
enforcing them.''  
 Tellabs, based in Naperville, Illinois, makes telephone
equipment for AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.  
 A company spokeswoman, Ariana Nikitas, said Tellabs received
the Fujitsu suit yesterday and is reviewing it.  
 ``We believe the case is without merit, and we will defend
Tellabs vigorously,'' Nikitas said in an interview.  
 Tellabs rose 12 cents to $6.56 in composite trading on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have declined 35 percent in a
year. Fujitsu rose 2 yen to 681 yen in Tokyo.  
 The case is Fujitsu Network Communications Inc. v.  Tellabs
Inc. (TLAB) , 08-00022. U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Cary O'Reilly in Washington
at   caryoreilly@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net ;
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        