-- Agent Boras Says Steinbrenner Legacy With Yankees Based on Philosophy
-- Rob Gloster
-- 2010-07-24T00:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/agent-boras-says-steinbrenner-legacy-with-yankees-based-on-philosophy.html

          
          
             George Steinbrenner’s  legacy with
the New York Yankees will survive because he passed on his
philosophy to his sons, baseball agent  Scott Boras .  
 Boras, who represents players including  Alex Rodriguez  and
 Mark Teixeira  of the Yankees, said the late New York owner --
who died July 13 at the age of 80 -- passed more than the team
on to sons  Hal  and  Hank Steinbrenner .  
 “The great thing is that I think George taught his sons
and his family that his legacy is about philosophy,” Boras
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Venture”
program. “The legacy of the Steinbrenner family is a star
philosophy -- that we will use free agency to attract the best
players, and the reason we are doing this is because it’s good
business.”  
 Boras helped Rodriguez land a record 10-year, $275 million
contract with the Yankees in 2007 that includes a potential $30
million in additional marketing bonuses if Rodriguez breaks the
Major League Baseball career home run record.  
 He also represents players including  Carlos Beltran  of the
New York Mets and rookie pitcher  Stephen Strasburg  of the
Washington Nationals.  
 Boras is founder and president of the  Scott D. Boras
Corp. , a sports agency based in Newport Beach, California.  
 Pharmacy and Law  
 Boras, 57, who received a pharmacy degree before becoming
a lawyer, said the major leagues are doing a better job now of
dealing with drug issues and denied he knew any of the players
he represents were taking drugs. Rodriguez has acknowledged
taking performance-enhancing drugs from 2001 to 2003 while a
member of the Texas Rangers.  
 “As an industry, I think all of us could have done a
better job in the ‘90s to pre-empt this issue,” he said. “I
didn’t know, because if I would have known I would have stopped
it. There is no advantage to baseball players taking anabolic
agents, because it corrupts their joints.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cris Valerio  in San Francisco at 
 cvalerio2@bloomberg.net 
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        