-- Asian Stocks Rise for Third Week on Commodities, Improving Profit Outlook
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-07-24T00:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/asian-stocks-rise-for-third-week-on-commodities-improving-profit-outlook.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  rose for a third week
as commodity prices gained and as U.S. companies reported or
raised profit forecasts, boosting confidence in the strength of
global economic growth.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company,
climbed 4 percent this week in Sydney.  Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co. , the world’s largest electronics contract
manufacturer, gained 3.7 percent in Taipei after Microsoft Corp.
reported positive earnings in the U.S.  China Resources Land
Ltd. , a state-controlled developer, soared 6.4 percent in Hong
Kong on speculation China may ease tightening measures.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 1.0 percent, advancing
for a third-straight week and posting the longest winning streak
since the week ended April 16. The gauge has slumped 8.5 percent
from its high this year on April 15 on concern Europe’s debt
crisis and Chinese steps to curb property prices will slow
global growth.  
 “Sentiment has been improving after the better-than-
expected U.S. earnings eased investors’ concerns about a poor
economic outlook,” said  Michiya Tomita , a Hong Kong-based fund
manager for Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees
$64 billion.  
 Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  rose 2.8 percent this week as
the city’s developers gained on prospects of higher property
prices. China’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 6.1 percent.
South Korea’s Kospi Index increased 1.1 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.8 percent, led by materials companies.
Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 0.2 percent in a four-
day, holiday-shortened week.  
 Materials Stocks Advance  
 A gauge of material companies gained the most this week
among the 10 industry groups in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index ,
followed by energy companies.  
 BHP Billiton  climbed 4 percent to A$39.68 this week in
Sydney, while  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-biggest mining
company, jumped 6.2 percent to A$69.86.  Sumitomo Metal Mining
Co. , Japan’s largest nickel producer, climbed 4.8 percent to
1,130 yen in Tokyo.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s
biggest producer of the metal, surged 7 percent to HK$6.59 in
Hong Kong.  
 The  London Metals Exchange Index , a measure of six metals,
rose 7.0 percent this week, while copper futures for September
delivery jumped 8.7 percent in New York after a report showed
sales of previously owned U.S. homes fell less than forecast in
June, bolstering the demand outlook for the metal. Crude oil for
September delivery climbed 3.2 percent.  
 Hon Hai Increases  
 Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, reported on
July 22 a 48 percent climb in fourth-quarter net income,
exceeding the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Separately, California-based company Apple Inc. forecast fourth-
quarter sales that topped analysts’ estimates.  
 “Microsoft’s earnings reiterated that demand for
electronics in the second half is still positive,” said  Monika Yang , who helps oversee $2 billion at Hamon Asset Management
Ltd. in Hong Kong. “This is a boost to Asian stock sentiment as
it stops the earlier noises about possible weak demand.”  
 Hon Hai Precision Industry  gained 3.7 percent to NT$125
this week in Taipei. Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest
maker of computer chips, flat screens and mobile phones,
increased 1.1 percent to 811,000 won in Seoul.  James Hardie
Industries SE , the biggest seller of home siding in the U.S.,
gained 2.6 percent to A$6.37 in Sydney.  
 China Policy Speculation  
 Property developers rose this week on speculation China’s
government will soon end policies to cool the housing market.
 Donald Straszheim , a senior managing director for China research
at International Strategy & Investment Group, said China will
“back away” from its tightening policies in the housing market
within three months as the economy faces a bigger risk from a
slowdown than inflation.  
 China Resources Land  jumped 6.4 percent to HK$16.62 in Hong
Kong. Guangzhou R&F Properties Co., the biggest real-estate
company in the southern Chinese city, surged 13 percent to
HK$12.34.  China Vanke Co. , the country’s largest listed
developer, climbed 11 percent to 9.86 yuan in the southern city
of Shenzhen.  
 “What the market is betting now is that the government
will allow the current tightening measures to be relaxed going
forward,” said  Sun Chao , an analyst at Citic Securities Co. in
Shanghai.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        