-- Australia's Gillard Plans Climate-Friendly Car Rebate, Emission Controls
-- Nichola Saminather
-- 2010-07-24T04:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/australia-s-gillard-plans-climate-friendly-car-rebate-emission-controls.html

          
          
             Australia’s Labor government plans
to spend A$394 million ($353 million) over the next four years
to replace old vehicles with energy-efficient models.  
 The government also plans to introduce mandatory emission
standards for cars from 2015, the ruling Labor party said in an
e-mailed statement.  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  today announced a program
that will from Jan. 1 offer A$2,000 rebates to people who trade
in cars manufactured before 1995 for low-emission, fuel-
efficient vehicles, according to the statement  
 “The amount of carbon we anticipate saving through this
measure by getting the 200,000 old cars off the road in favor
of more efficient vehicles is one million tons,” Gillard said
at a news conference in Brisbane broadcast on Sky News.  
 Cars that have received government designation as fuel
efficient and low polluting include  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s Hybrid
Camry and Corolla,  Ford Motor Co. ’s Falcon EcoBoost, and the
Cruze, made by General Motors Co.’s Australian unit Holden.  
 Gillard, who is facing an election on Aug. 21, replaced
 Kevin Rudd  as leader on June 24 after a slump in support to
election-losing levels sparked by his move in April to shelve
carbon trading, the mainstay of his 2007 election campaign.
Gillard came under fire from climate-change activists yesterday
after saying she will delay charging companies for pollution
until 2012.  
 ‘Guzzle and Spew’  
 “Australians own a lot of old motorcars and these old
cars guzzle a lot of petrol and spew a lot of pollution,”
Gillard said. “I want to help Australians update their motor
vehicles.”  
 The government will fund the rebates by redirecting funds
from three programs set up to increase the use of solar power,
carbon capture and renewable energy, Gillard said.  
 The second measure, which will impose mandatory carbon
dioxide emission standards on new light vehicles, is expected
to save consumers about A$1.8 billion in fuel costs by 2024, or
about $600 a year for a typical motorist, the Labor Party said
in a separate e-mailed statement.  
 Emission levels, which will apply to new four-wheeled
vehicles weighing 3.5 metric tons or less, will be set after
consultation with automakers, according to the statement.  
 The standards could save 2.6 million tons of carbon
dioxide every year, the government said.  
 Opposition leader  Tony Abbott , whose Liberal-National
coalition opposes any form of carbon tax on companies, said in
Perth today that the government’s industry minister last year
dismissed programs such as the old car plan as “wasteful,
complicated and unnecessary.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        