-- Storm Bonnie Weakens Over Florida, Heads Into Gulf of Mexico
-- Dan Hart
-- 2010-07-24T14:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/bonnie-weakens-to-tropical-depression-as-system-moves-into-gulf-u-s-says.html

          
          
             Tropical Depression Bonnie is
weakening and tropical storm warnings for the northern Gulf of
Mexico are likely to be lifted later this morning, the National
Hurricane Center said.  
 The system was moving to the west-northwest at about 20
miles (32 kilometers) per hour as of 8 a.m. New York time, the
center said in its latest advisory. “Strengthening is becoming
less likely,” the center said, citing satellite images and data
from a reconnaissance plane that show the storm becoming
disorganized.  
 Storms are closely watched in the Gulf of Mexico, partly
because they may topple oil production platforms and rupture
pipelines. Bonnie is hampering  BP Plc’s  efforts to drill relief
wells near the Macondo spill site. BP yesterday disconnected
ships that had been drilling relief wells at the site on the
storm’s approach. The vessels today began returning, BP
spokesman John Curry said by phone from New Orleans.  
 “This is certainly not a strong storm,” said  Brian Wimer ,
a meteorologist with AccuWeather.com Inc. in State College,
Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview. “This is not the
worst-case scenario expected.”  
 Bonnie’s maximum sustained winds as of 8 a.m. were about 30
mph, which are weaker than the 35 mph reported by the center in
the previous advisory at 5 a.m.  
 A storm must have winds of at least 39 mph to be considered
a tropical storm. Bonnie, previously the second tropical storm
of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season, lost power when crossing
the southern tip of Florida and was downgraded yesterday to a
depression as it moved into the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Forecast to Slow  
 The storm was located about 215 miles east-southeast of the
mouth of the Mississippi River, and its forward speed is
expected to show a “gradual decrease” today as it approaches
the northern Gulf Coast tonight, the center said.  
 Tropical storm warnings had been issued for the U.S. Gulf
Coast from Destin, Florida to Morgan City, Louisiana, including
Lake Pontchartrain, near New Orleans, the center said.  
 U.S. energy companies idled 29.6 percent of oil and 27.5
percent of natural-gas output in the Gulf of Mexico because of
Tropical Storm Ida last year, according to government data.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Enbridge Energy Partners LP and
 Transocean Ltd.  Evacuated non-essential personnel from rigs and
platforms in Bonnie’s path.  
 “Once the tropical depression is through and all is clear,
the decision will be made when to come back,” said Jonathan
Groveman, a spokesman for the U.S. oil spill response in New
Orleans, in a telephone interview. “Even though it’s not a
storm, it’s still going to bring some winds and some rain.”  
 The Gulf of Mexico is home to about 31 percent of U.S. oil
output and about 10 percent of gas production, according to the
Energy Department.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        