-- BP Returning to Gulf Oil Spill Site to Drill Relief Well as Bonnie Weakens
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-24T19:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/bp-returning-to-gulf-oil-spill-site-to-drill-relief-well-as-bonnie-weakens.html

          
          
             BP Plc  is sending vessels back to
the Gulf of Mexico oil spill site to get back to drilling relief
wells and preparing to plug the gushing Macondo well.  
 The tropical depression Bonnie that triggered BP’s
evacuation on July 22 moved into the Gulf yesterday, and may
degenerate into an area of low pressure, the National Hurricane
Center said today. Bonnie is not expected to strengthen today,
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Administrator
 Jane Lubchenco  said during a conference call with reporters.  
 “Everybody that was involved in the operations before will
be returning,” National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said
during the same call. The storm pushed back BP’s work at the
site about seven to nine days, he said.  
 Ships will be back at the well in about 24 hours. The
process of pumping mud into the top of the well to help
permanently stop the oil flow, known as “static kill,” may
begin in three to five days, Allen said.  
 The cap installed on the gusher on July 15 to temporarily
stop the leak remained in place as the vessels evacuated, and
pressure tests indicate that the well isn’t damanged, increasing
the chances of successfully plugging it permanently, Allen said.  
 Pressure Gains  
 Tests showed pressure within the well increased to 6,890
pounds per square inch today, from about 6,700 psi seen during 
the first test on July 16, according to BP’s website.  
 Data gathered from the wellhead will help estimate the rate
at which Macondo was spewing after the Deepwater Horizon rig
exploded on April 20 and sank, Allen said. The latest government
estimate set the flow at between 35,000 barrels and 60,000
barrels a day before the well was shut. As much as 5 million
barrels escaped before the well was plugged, Allen said.  
 “This weather delay was not as long as it might have
been,” BP spokesman  Steve Rinehart  said today. “But it has set
us back a few days.”  
 BP had expected to complete the first of two relief wells,
which would be used to flood Macondo with mud and cement, by the
end of this month.  
 The London-based company will probably need as many as 36
hours to reconnect the  Development Driller III  rig owned by
 Transocean Ltd. , and then seven to ten days before starting the
injection of cement in a process known as “bottom kill,” Allen
said today.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top energy stories: ETOP <GO>
Company news: BP/ LN <Equity> CN <GO>
Most-read weather news MNI WEA <GO>
BP income statement: BP/ LN <Equity> FA IS CHART <GO>
BP risk profile: BP/ LN <EQUITY> RSKC <GO>  
          
          


  


        