-- Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Top List of Goldman Sachs Counterparties on AIG
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-07-24T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/citigroup-credit-suisse-top-list-of-goldman-sachs-counterparties-on-aig.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  and Credit Suisse
Group AG were among banks that sold the most protection to
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  against a failure of  American
International Group Inc.   
 Goldman Sachs stood to receive $1.7 billion in payments
from credit-default swaps had AIG defaulted, according to the
list of  148 counterparties  released yesterday by U.S. Senator
 Charles Grassley ’s office. Citigroup could have owed more than
$400 million to Goldman Sachs, and Credit Suisse’s payment could
have been about $310 million.  
 Goldman Sachs turned over the list of counterparties to the
 Congressional Oversight Panel  and Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission, which are reviewing the use of taxpayer funds in
financial bailouts. AIG received a government rescue in 2008
that swelled to $182.3 billion, averting a collapse that may
have forced the banks to make payments to Goldman Sachs.  
 “AIG didn’t go down, and these banks didn’t have to pay
out to Goldman for the protection they sold,” said  Ed Grebeck ,
chief executive officer of Stamford, Connecticut-based debt-
consulting firm Tempus Advisors and an instructor at New York
University on derivatives.  
 Among companies that had agreements with Goldman Sachs as
of Sept. 15, 2008, was a division of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., which declared bankruptcy that day. The Lehman division
could have been obliged to pay about $175 million to Goldman
Sachs if AIG collapsed, according to the document.  
 Was Goldman Hedged?  
 “Does this undermine Goldman’s claim that it was ‘fully
collateralized and hedged’ with regard to the risk of an AIG
default, and thus demonstrate that Goldman did, in fact, receive
a direct benefit from the government’s assistance to AIG?”
Grassley wrote on his  website . He is the ranking Republican on
the Senate Finance Committee.  
 Among the 148 counterparties are separate divisions of the
same parent company. The list includes 17 different funds
managed by Pacific Investment Management Co.  
 The five biggest counterparties on the list are Citigroup,
Credit Suisse, a division of Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s London branch, and Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc.
Not all of the counterparties were banks -- the  Government of
Singapore Investment Corp ., which manages more than $100 billion
of the nation’s foreign reserves, is on the list.  
 Companies or funds that purchased the most protection
against an AIG default from Goldman Sachs are listed as  HSBC
Holdings Plc ’s U.S. bank unit,  UBS AG ’s London branch, Och-Ziff
Capital Management Group’s OZ Master Fund Ltd.,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc ’s London branch, and Claren Road Credit Master
Fund.  
 No Exposure  
 “We have said since AIG’s problems became public that we
had no material economic exposure to AIG and the information
released today makes that point,”  Lucas van Praag , a spokesman
for Goldman Sachs in New York, said on July 23.  
 AIG’s rescue was designed to prevent a wider financial
collapse. Banks including Goldman Sachs bought $62.1 billion in
insurance on mortgage-linked securities from AIG. To protect
itself against the possibility AIG would be unable to honor its
obligations, Goldman Sachs bought credit-default  swaps  that
would’ve paid out in the event of an AIG bankruptcy, Goldman
Sachs Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  has said.  
 When asked in March 2009 which firms sold Goldman Sachs the
protection, Viniar said it was “really all of the large
financial institutions” in and outside the U.S.  
 “That would be who you’d get protection from,” Grebeck
said. “You’d go to big, highly rated counterparties like
that.”  
 AIG’s Rescue  
 Shannon Bell , a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined to comment,
as did  Duncan King  of Credit Suisse,  Brian Marchiony  of JPMorgan
and  Kimberly Macleod  of Lehman.  Mark Lake , a Morgan Stanley
spokesman, didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages
left after regular business hours.  
 Goldman Sachs got $12.9 billion after AIG’s rescue as
bailout funds helped the insurer honor its contracts with Wall
Street firms. Goldman Sachs received $8.1 billion tied to swaps
contracts and $4.8 billion for securities lending contracts.  
 Grassley also released a list of  32 counterparties  to
Goldman Sachs on collateralized debt obligations. Goldman Sachs
made payments to banks including Germany’s  DZ Bank AG  and  Banco
Santander SA  of Spain for mortgage-related losses as it received
funds through the AIG rescue.  
 The largest payments were to European lenders that also
included the London branch of  Rabobank Nederland  NV,  Zuercher
Kantonalbank  and  Dexia Bank SA .  
 U.S. Taxpayer  
 “The majority of these beneficiaries appear to be foreign
entities,” Grassley wrote in a set of questions directed at
 Elizabeth Warren , chairman of the Congressional Oversight Panel,
and published on his website. “Can you please explain how
ensuring that these institutions were paid in full, rather than
required to suffer the consequences of the risks that they took,
benefited the U.S. taxpayer?”  
 Goldman Sachs executives including Viniar and Chief
Operating Officer  Gary Cohn  had defended the collection of funds
after AIG’s bailout, saying the money helped the firm pay
offsetting contracts with other parties.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        