-- Disney Said to Discuss Buying Playdom, Maker of Games Played on Facebook
-- Andy Fixmer
-- 2010-07-24T08:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/disney-said-to-discuss-buying-playdom-maker-of-games-played-on-facebook.html

          
          
             Walt Disney Co.  is in talks to buy
 Playdom Inc. , maker of video games played on the Facebook
social-networking website, according to a person with knowledge
of the negotiations.  
 An agreement may be reached as soon as the coming week,
said the person, who sought anonymity because a deal hasn’t been
reached. Playdom may be sold for more than $500 million, the
Wall Street Journal reported yesterday. TechCrunch.com reported
the talks earlier.  
 Playdom would extend Disney’s expansion in online and
mobile games. This month, the company acquired Tapulous Inc., a
developer of music-related games for  Apple Inc. ’s iPod and iPad.
Disney, the world’s largest media company, is attracted to the
growth of mobile games and mobile media,  Steve Wadsworth , head
of the Internet unit, said in a July 1 interview.  
 “Playdom is the biggest guy left that’s independent that’s
not crazy expensive,” said  Michael Pachter , a Los Angeles-based
analyst with Wedbush Morgan Securities.  
 Jonathan Friedland , a spokeswoman for Burbank, California-
based Disney, declined to comment.  
 Mountain View, California-based Playdom raised $33 million
in June, from venture capital groups including Disney-backed
 Steamboat Ventures , which invests in digital media, consumer and
technology companies. The funding brought the total raised by
the company to $76 million.  
 Playdom announced a content  partnership  with Disney’s ESPN
sports cable channel in May.  
 Disney rose 54 cents to $34.13 today in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 5.8 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in New York at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        