-- Tehran Exchange Begins Trading Futures to Attract Investors
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-26T13:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/tehran-stock-exchange-starts-futures-trading-to-attract-foreign-investors.html

          
          
             The  Tehran Stock Exchange , home of
the world’s second-best performing equity index, began offering
derivatives based on local banks to diversify and attract
foreign investors.  
 Four futures contracts were “symbolically” traded at an
opening ceremony yesterday, Hassan Ghalibaf-Asl, the exchange’s
managing director, said in a phone interview today. The exchange
is introducing six futures contracts based on  Parsian Bank  and
 Karafarin Bank , which will expire in two, four and six months,
he said. The exchange hopes to increase the number of companies
covered by futures contracts to at least 10 by March.  
 “This new product will attract the foreign investors to
Iran’s capital market, which isn’t very well known to them,”
Ali Karamad, owner of Tehran-based asset management company
 Karamad Group , said by telephone July 23. “It gives them
security, knowing that Iran’s market is introducing instruments
similar to those in international markets.”  
 Investors in emerging markets have received better returns
than those in Europe and the U.S. over the last year. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index rose 19 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with a gain of about 12 percent in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 16 percent for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
The TSE’s benchmark index, the TEDPIX, surged 55 percent in the
first half, making it the second-best performing broad market
index, according to  the World Federation of Exchanges .  
 While Ghalibaf-Asl predicts the exchange will be
“attractive to foreign investors,” it faces the obstacle of
international sanctions on Iran over its nuclear development.  
 Banking Sanctions  
 The U.S. and many of its allies say the atomic program may
be aimed at developing weapons. Iran, the second-largest oil
producer in the Middle East after Saudi Arabia, insists the work
is for civilian purposes, such as generating electricity.  
 The U.S. expanded its own sanctions against Iran on July 1,
when President  Barack Obama  signed a bill to block access to the
American financial system for banks that do business with Iran,
and to punish foreign suppliers of gasoline to the country.  
 European Union governments tightened sanctions against Iran
today. The package includes restrictions on export-credit
guarantees and insurance, a ban on investing or selling
equipment to Iran’s oil and natural-gas industries and closer
monitoring of banks doing business with Iran.  
 “It is questionable that they can attract a significant
level of foreign investment or trading” because of the
sanctions,  Bruce Weber , who specializes in electronic trading
and exchanges at the London Business School, said July 23 by e-
mail.  
 ‘Intermediary Banks’  
 Karamad said that while the sanctions “won’t be entirely
ineffective,” the government has promised that the measures
won’t threaten foreign investors’ funds.  
 “Iranian banks are working with intermediary banks,”
Karamad said. “HSBC and Barclays may comply with sanctions, but
we can work with banks in Kuwait, Azerbaijan and other
countries. The whole world hasn’t sanctioned us.”  
 The Tehran Stock Exchange, founded in 1967, today lists 337
companies with a total value of 742 trillion Iranian rials ($74
billion). An average of 9,886 trades were completed per day in
the Iranian month of Khordad, which ended June 21, according to
data on the exchange’s website. The TSE index stood at 15,746 at
today’s close of trading.  
 Exchange Currencies  
 Since April, foreign investors have been able to open
foreign-currency accounts at Iranian banks and exchange their
currencies to rials and vice versa, according to the TSE
website. Foreigners who want to trade in Iran must get a
license, which the exchange says will take seven days, according
to the website.  
 They can transfer their original investment, capital gains
and dividends outside Iran, according to the TSE website.
Thirty-one of the 88 brokerages active in the TSE are licensed
to trade the futures contracts, Ghalibaf-Asl said. They will
only deal in the derivatives electronically, he said.  
 Derivatives are financial instruments derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to specific
events such as changes in interest rates.  
 “The futures market will be received very warmly,”
Karamad said. “It gives the traders a 1-to-10 leverage, which
will lead to higher profits for clients and for the brokers.
Those who have a higher appetite for risk will favor futures
deals.”  
 Risk Appetite  
 Vice President  Mohammad Reza Rahimi  told reporters in
Tehran July 22 that his country has rates of return of 25 to 75
percent for investment. “It’s not possible anywhere else in the
world,” Rahimi said on state television. Iran has improved its
laws, making it easier for foreigners to invest, he said.  
 Emerging markets that have yet to mature into “true market
economies,” such as Brazil and some Asian markets, have
provided the best returns from equities in the last five years,
Weber said.  
 “Will they be able to attract international investors?”
Weber said in a July 22 telephone interview. “Some of the
questions people will have are ‘could an investor repatriate the
dividends?’ A local investor might not need to ask, but an
international investor would.”  
 TSE, which completed its demutualization in 2006, is a
member of the Federation of Euro-Asian Stock Exchanges and the
World Federation of Exchanges.  
 Exchange Member  
 Iran’s markets regulator, the  Securities and Exchange
Organization , reports to a government body that is headed by the
minister for economic affairs and finance. The Central Bank
governor and representatives of the private sector are members
of the council. It has an electronic system for tracing market
abuse, and insider trading and market abuse may lead to fines or
imprisonment, Ghalibaf-Asl said.  
 “Our plan is to increase the number of companies whose
shares are offered in futures contracts to at least 10 by the
end of this year,” Ghalibaf-Asl said, referring to the Iranian
year ending March 20. “We’re working on an index whose futures
could be offered next year,” he said.  
 “Sukuk and options may be the next instruments in line to
be available for Iran’s traders,” Hossein Khezli-Kharazi,
general secretary of the country’s  Securities & Exchange Brokers
Association , said by telephone July 22. Sukuk are bonds that
comply with Islam’s Sharia law.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net ;
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mohammad Reza Rahimi. Photograph: Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
