-- Euro Falls as Stress Test Results Fail to Alleviate Banking Risk Concern
-- Oliver Biggadike
-- 2010-07-24T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/euro-falls-as-stress-test-results-fail-to-alleviate-banking-risk-concern.html

          
          
             The euro fell, ending its longest
weekly rally in nine months versus the dollar, on concern stress
tests of European Union banks failed to identify sources of
weakness that would aggravate the region’s debt crisis.  
 The 16-nation currency depreciated against the majority of
its most-actively traded counterparts, slumping the greatest
amount versus growth-sensitive currencies such as the Australian
and New Zealand dollars. Tests showing that only seven banks
flunked the EU’s crisis scenario failed to ease concern lenders
may lack sufficient capital, pushing the euro to reverse gains
recorded earlier in the week.  
 “The euro’s definitely had its ups and downs,” said
 Vassili Serebriakov,  a currency strategist at Wells Fargo & Co.
in New York. “Markets were questioning whether the stress tests
were stressful enough, in other words, whether they were
stringent enough.”  
 The 16-nation currency fell 0.2 percent this week to
$1.2909 yesterday in New York, from $1.2930 on July 16. The yen
weakened 1 percent to 87.46 per dollar from 86.57 last week. The
euro slumped 3.1 percent to A$1.4414 versus Australia’s currency
and 2.5 percent to NZ$1.775 against its New Zealand counterpart.  
 The euro gained yesterday as traders closed out bets that
the currency would weaken further when equities rallied. The yen
extended its decline versus the dollar as Japanese policy makers
signaled for a third day that a stronger currency poses a danger
to growth, spurring speculation they will take steps to counter
that risk. Hungary’s forint snapped a three-day gain as Moody’s
Investors Service said it may cut the nation’s credit rating.  
 Bank Test Results  
 Seven European Union banks failed the region’s stress tests
with a combined capital shortfall of 3.5 billion euros ($4.5
billion), according to the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors, which coordinated the initiative.  
 EU regulators scrutinized 91 of the bloc’s banks to assess
whether they have enough capital to withstand a recession and
sovereign-debt crisis, with a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6 percent
as a floor. Governments are seeking to reassure investors about
the health of financial institutions after the debt crisis
pummeled the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal.  
 The evaluations took into account potential losses only on
government bonds the banks trade, rather than those they are
holding to maturity, according to CEBS. That means the tests are
set to ignore the majority of banks’ holdings of sovereign debt,
investors said.  
 ‘Lack of Creditability’  
 “There’s a lack of credibility,” said  Brian Dolan,  chief
strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of online currency trading firm
Gain Capital in Bedminster, New Jersey. “They don’t think the
scenarios were stressful enough.”  
 Regulators tested portfolios of sovereign five-year bonds,
assuming a loss of 23.1 percent on Greek debt, 12.3 percent on
Spanish bonds, 14 percent on Portuguese bonds and 4.7 percent on
German state debt, according to CEBS.  
 The European currency fell against 14 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this week, rising against the yen and franc. The
shared currency has climbed 5.5 percent against the dollar in
July.  
 Futures  traders decreased their bets for a third week that
the euro will decline versus the dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other
large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those
on a gain, known as net shorts, was 24,251 on July 20, compared
with net shorts of 27,050 a week earlier.  
 Long Road Ahead  
 “What investors recognize and will continue to believe is
that the road for euro-zone banks and euro-zone policy makers is
a long one,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the
foreign-exchange group in Boston at BNY Mellon, the world’s
largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in assets
under administration. “It’s going to boil down to
fundamentals.”  
 Europe’s shared currency has declined 8.1 percent this
year, the biggest loss among its developed-world counterparts,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
has gained 3.1 percent, and the yen advanced 10 percent.  
 The 16-nation currency may retrace its 8 percent rally
since trading at the four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7 as
investors borrow euros and sell them to purchase assets in other
nations, according to  Sebastien Galy , a currency strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in New York.  
 Funding With Euros  
 “The euro’s likely seen its top,” Galy said. “The
question going forward is whether people are going to make a
cyclical bet the euro versus the dollar as a funding currency.”  
 The euro carry trade investing in Brazilian reais, South
African rand and Australian and New Zealand dollars earned as
much as 17 percent this year through June 28 before the shared
currency’s rally started eroding profits from the trade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A similar trade funded
in yen has lost 5 percent so far this year, while a dollar-carry
strategy made 2 percent.  
 “An abrupt drop in stock prices or an appreciation in the
yen could hurt the economy” because Japan relies on overseas
demand, National Strategy Minister  Satoshi Arai  said in Tokyo.
Cabinet Office official  Keisuke Tsumura  said the yen, which has
risen 9 percent since early May, has been “a bit too high.”  
 Japan’s authorities haven’t intervened to sell yen in the
currency market since 2004, and Group of Seven members have
refrained from coordinated intervention for almost a decade,
since an effort in 2000 to buttress the euro.  
 Hungary’s forint dropped 2 percent this week against the
euro to 287.86. Moody’s placed the nation’s Baa1 rating, its
third-lowest investment grade, on review for possible downgrade.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        