-- Goldman Sachs Names European Banks It Paid Amid AIG's U.S.-Funded Bailout
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-07-24T02:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/goldman-sachs-names-european-banks-it-paid-amid-aig-s-u-s-funded-bailout.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  said it
made payments to banks including Germany’s  DZ Bank AG  and  Banco
Santander SA  of Spain for mortgage-related losses as it received
U.S. taxpayer funds through the  American International Group
Inc.  bailout in 2008.  
 The list of  32 counterparties  to Goldman Sachs on
collateralized debt obligations was released today by U.S.
Senator  Charles Grassley . The largest payments were to European
lenders that also included the London branch of  Rabobank
Nederland  NV,  Zuercher Kantonalbank  and  Dexia Bank SA .  
 “The majority of these beneficiaries appear to be foreign
entities,” Grassley wrote in a set of questions directed at
 Elizabeth Warren , chairman of the Congressional Oversight Panel,
and published on his website. “Can you please explain how
ensuring that these institutions were paid in full, rather than
required to suffer the consequences of the risks that they
took, benefited the U.S. taxpayer?”  
 Goldman Sachs turned over the list to the  Congressional
Oversight Panel  and Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, which
are reviewing the use of taxpayer funds in financial bailouts.
Grassley, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, had suggested Goldman Sachs could be subpoenaed if
the New York-based bank didn’t provide the information.  
 Goldman Sachs executives including Chief Operating Officer
 Gary Cohn  and Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  had defended
the firm’s collection of $8.1 billion after AIG’s bailout, tied
to swaps contracts. The money helped Goldman Sachs pay out
offsetting contracts with other parties, they said, without
naming the companies until now. In addition, Goldman Sachs
received $4.8 billion after the bailout for securities lending
contracts.  
 Buyers and Sellers  
 “We had transactions on the other side,” Cohn, 49, told
members of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission at a hearing
earlier this month. “In AIG, we sat in the middle of buyers and
sellers.”  
 The documents released by Grassley’s office show that
Goldman Sachs’s counterparties received a total of about $14
billion in payments for the bonds that ended up going into the
Maiden Lane III special purpose vehicle established by the
Federal Reserve for AIG’s bailout.  
 Other names on the list include the Hospitals of Ontario
Pension Plan and a GSAM Credit CDO Ltd., a collateralized debt
obligation managed by Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
Collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, are securities backed
by pools of financial instruments such as mortgage bonds or
loans.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        