-- Indian Oil Posts Unexpected Quarterly Loss After Selling Fuels Below Cost
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-07-24T10:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/indian-oil-posts-unexpected-quarterly-loss-after-selling-fuels-below-cost.html

          
          
             Indian Oil Corp. , the nation’s
biggest state-owned refiner, reported an unexpected first-
quarter loss after the government failed to compensate the
company for selling fuels below cost.  
 The company had a loss of 33.9 billion rupees ($722 million)
in the three months ended June 30, compared with a profit of
36.8 billion rupees a year earlier, New Delhi-based Indian Oil
said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange today. The
average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was a
profit of 3.7 billion rupees. Net Sales increased 23 percent to
712.8 billion rupees.  
 India asks state-run refiners to sell diesel and cooking
fuels below cost to curb  inflation  in the world’s third-fastest
growing major economy. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s decision
in June to free gasoline prices from state control and increase
prices of diesel, cooking gas and kerosene may help improve
their profitability.  
 “State-refiners are very dependent on government
support,”  Saeed Jaffery , a Mumbai-based analyst at Ambit
Capital Pvt., said before the announcement. “The government’s
lack of clarity in compensating refiners will continue to hurt
them.”  
 Indian Oil  shares  have climbed 22 percent this year,
compared with the 4 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index . The shares fell 0.4 percent to 373.25 rupees yesterday.  
 Oil Prices  
 Crude oil averaged $81.48 a barrel in the quarter ended
June 30, 17 percent higher than a year ago. Crude for September
delivery closed at $78.98 a barrel, down 32 cents, in New York
Mercantile Exchange yesterday.  
 Indian Oil’s average gross refining margin for the quarter
was $3 per barrel, compared with $7.36 a year earlier, the
company said today.  
 A panel, led by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , said on
June 25 that state refiners would be allowed to set gasoline
prices, which were increased by 3.5 rupees a liter. Prices of
diesel, cooking gas and kerosene were also raised and remain
under government control.  
 State refiners including  Bharat Petroleum Corp.  and
Hindustan Petroleum Corp. will review gasoline prices every
month, Serangulam V. Narasimhan, finance director of Indian Oil,
said July 14.  
 The increase in gasoline and diesel prices was the third
this year. Refiners in China, the world’s biggest energy user,
adjust gasoline and diesel prices when oil changes by 4 percent
over 22 working days.  
 Hindustan Petroleum Corp. yesterday reported a first-
quarter loss of 18.8 billion rupees. Bharat Petroleum Corp. is
 scheduled  to announce earnings on July 30.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        