-- Obama Says Republicans Would Lead U.S. Back Into Recession, Widen Deficit
-- Jonathan D. Salant
-- 2010-07-24T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/obama-says-republicans-would-lead-u-s-back-into-recession-widen-deficit.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said House
Republicans would reverse the U.S. economic recovery and
increase the deficit, sounding a campaign theme before November
elections that will determine whether Democrats retain control
of Congress.  
 Obama, speaking in his weekly address on radio and the
Internet, pounced on Republican opposition to funding clean-
energy jobs, calls to repeal health-care overhaul legislation
passed earlier this year and support for extending tax cuts for
wealthy Americans without paying for them with spending
reductions or tax increases.  
 “These are not new ideas,” Obama said. “They are the
same policies that led us into this recession. They will take us
backward at a time when we need to keep America moving
forward.”  
 One-third of the Senate and all House seats are on the
ballot in November. With the president’s party typically losing
seats in the first midterm congressional elections, Republicans
need a net pickup of 40 seats in the House of Representatives
and 10 in the Senate to regain the control they lost in 2006.  
 A July 9-12 Bloomberg National Poll found Americans split,
43 percent to 43 percent, on whether they would vote for a
Democratic or Republican House candidate in November. The
figures include those who said they were leaning toward one
party or the other.  
 Deficit Forecast  
 Obama’s radio speech followed his budget office’s forecast
yesterday that this year’s deficit will be a record $1.47
trillion. Last year’s shortfall, during the recession that began
under President  George W. Bush , was $1.41 trillion.  
 Under the Republicans’ 2001 tax cut legislation, the
reductions end next year. Obama has proposed extending them for
families making less than $250,000 a year. Republicans want to
extend them to everyone.  
 In the  Republican response  to Obama’s radio address,
Representative  Mike Pence  of Indiana said his party would oppose
allowing any of the Bush tax cuts to expire.  
 “The American people know we can’t tax and spend and bail
our way back to a growing economy,” Pence said. “House
Republicans opposed the Democrats’ failed stimulus bill, their
national energy tax, their government takeover of health care,
and House Republicans will oppose this tax increase with
everything we’ve got.”  
 ‘Partisan Attacks’  
 House Republican Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio took the
unusual step of adding a second Republican response to Obama,
saying the president was “resorting to partisan attacks, rather
than working with Republicans to help the American people.”  
 “Washington Democrats’ policies have created uncertainty
that has undermined our economy, shaken the confidence of the
nation, and cost millions of American jobs,” Boehner said.  
 The Bloomberg poll found Americans blaming Bush more than
Obama for the budget deficit and unemployment. Obama, meanwhile,
has touted his $862 billion economic-stimulus program, saying it
has created or saved 3 million jobs.  
 The budget office said the unemployment rate was projected
to average 9.7 percent this year and 9 percent next year.  
 “I know times are tough,” Obama said. “I know that the
progress we’ve made isn’t good enough for the millions of
Americans who are still out of work or struggling to pay the
bills.”  
 He also said he expected that the country would “harness
the skills and ingenuity” to “reach a better day.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        