-- Treasuries Fall on Better-than-Expected Forecasts for U.S. Company Profits
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-07-24T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/treasuries-fall-on-better-than-expected-forecasts-for-u-s-company-profits.html

          
          
             Treasury 10-year notes fell, pushing
yields to a one-week high, as greater-than-forecast corporate
profits eased concern economic growth is slowing and the U.S.
prepared to sell $104 billion in notes.  
 Treasury two-year note yields lingered at record lows after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 21 the
economic outlook is “unusually uncertain” and policy makers
are prepared to take further policy actions as needed. The
Committee of European Banking Supervisors said seven of the
region’s 91 banks failed stress tests, with a combined capital
shortfall of 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion).  
 “The thought was more prevalent about the double dip last
week,” said  Tom Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. “Things have calmed down
enough for people to take money out of Treasuries. The earnings
we got were surprisingly strong -- some of these numbers tell
you maybe it’s not that bad. It’s not a smooth one way street.”  
 The 10-year note  yield  rose 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage points, to 2.99 percent on the week. It touched 3
percent yesterday, the highest level since July 16. It touched
2.85 percent on July 21, the lowest level since April 2009.  
 The two-year  note  yield rose 2 basis points on the week to
0.58 percent in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. It
hit new records for four consecutive days. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 3.6 percent on the week.  
 Monthly Auctions  
 The Treasury will auction $38 billion in two-year notes,
$37 billion of five-year debt and $29 billion in seven-year
securities over three consecutive days starting July 27. The
amount is the lowest total since it sold an equal amount of the
securities in June 2009. The amount on the two-year note is the
lowest since December 2008.  
 “Treasuries will face the dueling forces of supply and
data that is expected to show only modest improvements off of a
low base,” government strategists  David Ader  and  Ian Lyngen  of
CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, wrote in a note
to clients yesterday. “The motivation that has brought yields
to the bottom of the recent range has run its course. It’s worth
noting that does not prohibit rates from grinding lower, but
does create a higher bar for bullish surprises.”  
 European banks were only examined on European sovereign-
debt losses for the bonds they trade, rather than those they
hold to maturity.  
 European governments were seeking to reassure investors
about the health of financial institutions after the debt crisis
pummeled the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal.  
 Stress Tests  
 A document showed the stress tests ignored the majority of
banks’ holdings of sovereign debt after regulators decided
against testing securities held in their banking books.  
 “The haircuts are applied to the trading book portfolios
only, as no default assumption was considered,” the European
Central Bank said in a confidential document July 22 titled “EU
Stress Test Exercise: Key Messages on Methodological Issues.”  
 Lenders hold about 90 percent of their Greek government
bonds in their banking book and 10 percent in their trading
book, according to a survey by Morgan Stanley analysts led by
 Huw van Steenis .  
 A Commerce Department report on July 30 is forecast to show
the U.S., economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, less than the 2.7 percent in the first quarter.  
 Bernanke, responding to questions about the economy on July
21, outlined options for further steps to support the economy,
including giving more information on the Fed’s commitment to low
interest rates. Tools to boost the economy also include reducing
the rate paid on banks’ reserves held at the Fed and using the
central bank’s balance sheet, he said. Officials haven’t decided
which they might use, he said.  
 Fed policy makers “expect continued moderate growth, a
gradual decline in the unemployment rate and subdued inflation
over the next several years,” Bernanke said.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 33 percent
chance policy makers will boost the  target lending rate  for
overnight bank loans at least a quarter-percentage point by
April, compared with a 55 percent likelihood a month ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        