-- Storm Bonnie Weakens Over Florida, Heads Into Gulf of Mexico
-- Dan Hart
-- 2010-07-24T21:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/tropical-storm-bonnie-weakens-over-florida-heads-into-gulf-of-mexico.html

          
          
             Bonnie has degenerated to a
“disorganized area of low pressure” near the U.S. Gulf Coast,
hours after the National Hurricane Center lifted tropical storm
warnings for the northern Gulf of Mexico, the center said.  
 The remnants of the weather system slowed to about 14 miles
(22 kilometers) per hour as of 5 p.m. New York time as it moves
to the west-northwest, the center said in its last public
advisory. The low is anticipated to dissipate tonight or
tomorrow, and no coastal watches or warnings are in effect, the
NHC said.  
 Storms are closely watched in the Gulf, partly because they
may topple oil production platforms and rupture pipelines.
Bonnie hampered  BP Plc’s  efforts to drill relief wells near the
Macondo spill site, as the company yesterday disconnected ships
that had been drilling relief wells as the storm approached. The
vessels began returning today, BP spokesman John Curry said by
telephone from New Orleans.  
 The Gulf is home to about 31 percent of U.S. oil output and
about 10 percent of gas production, according to the Energy
Department.  
 Bonnie’s maximum sustained winds were about 30 mph, which
are about the same reported in the previous advisory at 11 a.m.
The storm was located about 100 miles east-southeast of the
mouth of the Mississippi River.  
 The storm is expected to produce rainfall totals of one to
two inches over southern parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, and
Alabama, and the far-western part of the Florida Panhandle. Some
areas might record as much as three inches, the agency said.  
 A storm must have winds of at least 39 mph to be considered
a tropical storm. Bonnie, the second tropical storm of the 2010
Atlantic hurricane season, lost power when crossing the southern
tip of Florida and was downgraded yesterday to a depression as
it moved into the Gulf of Mexico.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        