-- Salgado Says Spain Insisted on Publishing EU Stress Test Results for Banks
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-07-24T23:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/salgado-says-spain-insisted-on-publishing-eu-stress-test-results-for-banks.html

          
          
             The European Union stress tests on
banks vindicated Spain’s push to have the results published,
even though five of the country’s lenders didn’t pass, Finance
Minister  Elena Salgado  said.  
 “The stress tests were published because Spain insisted
that they be published,” Salgado said in an interview in
Washington yesterday. “We were the first to ask for them to be
published.”  
 Four Spanish savings-bank groups and a bank seized by
regulators failed EU stress tests for a combined capital
shortfall of 1.84 billion euros ($2.4 billion). All eight
Spanish commercial banks tested passed the examination.  
 About 95 percent of Spain’s lenders were tested, compared
with 60 percent for Europe as a whole, Salgado said. “If we had
done only 60, all of our savings banks would have passed,” she
said.  
 Spain wanted the results published to combat a public
perception that “our savings banks were in a worse situation
than they really were,” Salgado said. “We think the
transparency benefits us.”  
 Spain still faces challenges, including reducing the number
of savings banks and diversifying the workforce and economy to
focus more on the export and technology sectors, she said.  
 “We need more private-sector investment in technology,”
she said.  
 Spain’s gross domestic product expanded 0.1 percent in the
first three months of the year, even as austerity measures
threatened to undermine the recovery. As the government fights
to rein in the third-largest budget deficit in the euro region,
it raised the rate of value-added tax in July, a month after
cutting public wages by 5 percent.  
 Salgado said “of course” Europe is past the worst of its
financial crisis. Salgado met yesterday with U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  in Washington to discuss efforts
to strengthen the global economy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        