-- Seven More U.S. Banks Shut by Regulators, Pushing Year's Failures Past 100
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-07-24T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/seven-more-u-s-banks-shut-by-regulators-pushing-year-s-failures-past-100.html

          
          
             Seven banks were seized in seven
U.S. states, marking the second year in a row in which at least
100 lenders have collapsed.  
 Banks with total deposits of about $2 billion were shut
down yesterday, according to  statements  on the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. website. The failures cost the FDIC’s deposit-
insurance fund $431 million. The U.S. bank-failure count this
year rose to 103.  
 Iberiabank Corp. , based in Lafayette, Louisiana, acquired
Lantana, Florida-based Sterling Bank in its fifth FDIC-assisted
transaction. Iberiabank picks up six branches and about $372
million in deposits.  
 “This acquisition is an excellent fit for our company,
providing a nice complement to our current franchise in Broward
and Palm Beach counties,” Iberiabank Chief Executive Officer
 Daryl G. Byrd  said in a statement. “We anticipate a smooth
transition.”  
 Regulators may close the most banks this year since 1992 as
souring residential and commercial mortgages impair capital
levels. The FDIC included 775 banks with $431 billion in assets
on the confidential list of problem lenders as of March 31, an
increase from 702 banks with $402.8 billion at the end of the
fourth quarter. FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  has said 2010 failures
will surpass last year’s total of 140.  
 Banks were also closed in Georgia, South Carolina, Kansas,
Minnesota, Nevada and Oregon, the FDIC said.  
 Renasant Bank  
 Renasant Bank , of Tupelo, Mississippi, paid a 1 percent
premium to take on the deposits at Crescent Bank & Trust Co. in
Jasper, Georgia, the FDIC said. Renasant picked up
“essentially” all of the more than $1 billion in assets at
Crescent, the agency said.  
 South Valley Bank & Trust of Klamath Falls, Oregon, paid
the FDIC a 1.05 percent premium to acquire the deposits of Cave
Junction, Oregon’s Home Valley Bank, which stood at about $230
million at the end of March, the FDIC said.  
 Roundbank of Waseca, Minnesota, acquired New Prague,
Minnesota-based Community Security Bank. First Citizens Bank &
Trust Co. of Columbia, South Carolina, acquired Williamsburg
First National Bank of Kingstree, South Carolina.  
 Las Vegas-based SouthwestUSA Bank and Thunder Bank of
Sylvan Grove, Kansas, were also closed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        