-- Earthquakes Strike Southern Philippines, Indonesia; No Casualties Reported
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-07-24T07:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/six-earthquakes-strike-philippines-gulf-usgs-says-no-reported-casualties.html

          
          
             Eight earthquakes struck the Moro
Gulf off Mindanao island in the southern Philippines today and
one rocked the northern Indonesian island of Sumatra, according
to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  
 Three of the eight quakes in the Moro Gulf measured more
than magnitude seven, the USGS reported on its website. There
were no immediate reports of casualties or damage, and tsunami
warnings weren’t issued by the  Pacific Tsunami Warning Center .  
 The first quake that hit at 6:08 a.m. Philippines time had
a magnitude of 7.3 and was centered 100 kilometers (62 miles)
southwest of Cotabato, Mindanao, according to the U.S. website.
The latest temblor, with a magnitude of 6.2, struck 135
kilometers south-southwest of Cotabato at 1:35 p.m. local time,
the USGS said.  
 Indonesia and the Philippines lie along the so-called
Pacific  Ring of Fire , where tectonic plates collide and about 80
percent of the world’s largest temblors occur.  
 The magnitude-5.4 Indonesian quake occurred 38.1 kilometers
deep and was felt in the central business district of
neighboring Singapore. The Philippine temblors were at depths of
as much as 617 kilometers, according to the USGS.  
 Residents of Mindanao were awakened by the quakes, the
Philippines’  Inquirer.net  reported. Officials are determining
whether there were casualties or damages, it said, citing Renato
Solidum, director of the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and
Seismology.  
 Indonesia’s last earthquake hit on May 23 with a magnitude
of 4.9, the USGS said on its website. The  last one  in the
Philippines was a magnitude-4.7 temblor that struck the northern
Luzon region on May 22, the agency added.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Lui  in Singapore at   plui4@bloomberg.net ;
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        