-- Storm Bonnie Weakens Over Florida, Heads Into Gulf of Mexico
-- Rachel Graham
-- 2010-07-24T11:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/storm-bonnie-weakens-over-florida-heads-into-gulf-of-mexico.html

          
          
             Tropical Depression Bonnie may gain
tropical storm strength before reaching the northern coast of
the Gulf of Mexico, the National Hurricane Center said.  
 Slight strengthening in wind speeds is possible today,
according to the latest  hurricane center bulletin  posted on the
center’s website.  
 Storms are closely watched in the Gulf of Mexico, partly
because they may topple oil production platforms and rupture
pipelines. Bonnie is hampering  BP Plc’s  efforts to drill relief
wells near the Macondo spill site.  
 “Tropical storm-force winds, mainly in squalls, will
likely begin along portions of the northern Gulf coast within
the warning area late today,” the center said.  
 A storm must have winds of at least 39 miles (63
kilometers) per hour to be considered a tropical storm. Bonnie,
previously the second tropical storm of the 2010 Atlantic
hurricane season, lost power when crossing the southern tip of
Florida and was downgraded yesterday to a depression as it moved
into the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Bonnie’s maximum sustained winds are near 35 miles per
hour, the hurricane center said in the latest update at 5 a.m.
Miami time. That was unchanged from the previous hurricane
center update.  
 Estimate  
 The latest storm track predicts the system will go ashore
along the Louisiana-Mississippi line early tomorrow.  
 U.S. energy companies idled 29.6 percent of oil and 27.5
percent of natural-gas output in the Gulf of Mexico because of
Tropical Storm Ida last year, according to government data.  
 The storm is forecast to leave as much as 2 inches of rain
over parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida,
according to the hurricane center.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Enbridge Energy Partners LP and
 Transocean Ltd.  evacuated non-essential personnel from rigs and
platforms in Bonnie’s path.  
 Murphy Oil Corp. said yesterday it was shutting all of its
production in the Gulf.  Williams Cos.  is stopping gas production
and evacuating personnel at its Canyon Station platform in the
eastern Gulf, the company said yesterday.  
 Oil and gas producers report that 2 rigs and 11 production
platforms have been evacuated due to the storm, the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement said
yesterday in a  statement on its website . About 452,000 barrels
of daily oil production are shut in, along with 667 million
cubic feet of gas.  
 The Gulf of Mexico is home to about 31 percent of U.S. oil
output and about 10 percent of gas production, according to the
Energy Department.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        