-- Ugandan Leader Wants United Nations to Fund Help Somalia Peace Operations
-- Fred Ojambo
-- 2010-07-24T13:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/ugandan-leader-wants-united-nations-to-fund-help-somalia-peace-operations.html

          
          
             Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni 
wants the United Nations to provide funding and military support
to rid Somalia of terrorists who claimed responsibility for the
July 11 bombings that killed 76 people in the capital, Kampala.  
 A lack of resources constrains some of Somalia’s
neighboring countries, who are ready to help restore stability
in the Horn of Africa nation, the Ugandan president said in an
e-mailed statement from the capital today.  
 The East African countries must step in to stop Somalia’s
crisis from deepening because “there is no credible liberation
movement or the type of opposition that can take over if
government collapses,” Museveni said. “Somalia has been open
for over 20 years to terrorism. The Security Council should
provide enough money and equipment to finish the job.”  
 Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Sudan and Djibouti, under the
regional Inter-Government Authority on Development asked the
African Union to “immediately” send an extra 2,000 troops to
Somalia, and the UN Security Council pledged to help raise
another 20,000 soldiers to stem the spread of terrorism, the
Ugandan leader said on July 5.  
 Museveni asked the permanent members of the Security
Council to make a bigger commitment to stopping the al-Shabaab
Islamist militant group, which the U.S. has designated a
terrorist organization with links to al-Qaeda, from spreading
terrorism in Somalia, he said at a meeting with  Henry Bellingham , the British minister for African affairs, yesterday.  
 Forces  
 Uganda has 2,700 soldiers in Somalia and Burundi has 2,550,
according to the website of the Francophone Research Network on
Peace Operations.  
 More countries are willing to send troops to Somalia after
al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the twin bombings in
Kampala that killed 76 people and injured dozens of others while
they were watching the final of the soccer World Cup played in
South Africa on July 11,  Ramtane Lamamra , the African Union
Commisioner for peace and security, said on July 19.  
 Islamic militias including al-Shabaab and Hisb-ul-Islam
have been battling Somalia’s government for three years and
control most of southern and central Somalia, and sections of
Mogadishu.  
 Somalia is in its 19th year of civil war and hasn’t had a
functioning central administration since the overthrow of former
dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        