-- Vietnamese Inflation Slows, Supporting Government's Push for Faster Growth
-- Jason Folkmanis
-- 2010-07-24T13:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-24/vietnamese-inflation-slows-supporting-government-s-push-for-faster-growth.html

          
          
             Vietnamese  inflation  cooled for a
fourth month, a slowdown that may ease concerns the government’s
focus on stoking economic growth will revive price pressures.  
 Consumer prices rose 8.19 percent this month from a year
earlier, according to figures released today by the General
Statistics Office in Hanoi. The inflation rate in June was 8.69
percent, according to previously reported data. Prices climbed
0.06 percent in July from June.  
 “I had been expecting inflation for the full year to be in
double-digits,” said  Adam McCarty , chief economist at Mekong
Economics in Hanoi, in a telephone interview today. “Given
these figures, there’s probably some scope for the central bank
to loosen monetary policy a bit further.”  
 Vietnam’s policy makers urged banks to reduce interest
rates to bolster the economy after first-quarter credit expanded
by 3.3 percent, compared with the central bank’s full-year
target of 25 percent. Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung ’s
government is targeting 6.5 percent  growth  in 2010.  
 “Inflation will probably slow some more in coming
months,”  Kevin Grice , a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd., said, in a July 19 note. “Food and
transportation costs have moved lower.”  
 Prices in the category including rice climbed 9.28 percent,
compared with 9.34 percent in June. Vietnam is the world’s
fifth-biggest  rice consumer .  
 Autumn Harvest  
 Prospects for a good autumn food harvest may help Vietnam
further contain inflation,  Alan Pham , chief economist at
VinaSecurities, a unit of VinaCapital Investment Management
Ltd., said in a note this month. VinaSecurities predicted a
year-end inflation rate of 8 percent to 9 percent.  
 Prices for some varieties of rice fell by as much as 0.7
percent in the week to July 2 from the week before, the
agricultural attaché’s office at the U.S. embassy in Hanoi said
in its latest  price update , released July 15.  
 Still, Vietnam’s move to target growth over managing
inflation is a “dangerous strategy,” given its “low” level
of foreign reserves and a lack of confidence in the dong, Grice
said.  
 The country’s reserves fell to $15.2 billion at the end of
2009 from $23 billion in 2008, according to the World Bank. The
Vietnamese currency has fallen 3 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 “Growth is picking up, wages are rising rapidly, and, from
what limited data are available, there appears to be little
spare capacity in the economy,” Grice said.  
 Loans from the beginning of the year to mid-June increased
10.5 percent, helping Vietnam’s economic growth accelerate to
6.4 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, compared
with 5.8 percent in the first three months of 2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Folkmanis  in Berkeley, California at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        