-- Ernst & Young partners charged in tax fraud case
-- By  Emily Chasan
-- Wed May 30, 2007 12:35pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/30/businesspro-ernst-taxshelters-dc-idUSN3041538520070530

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Federal prosecutors on Wednesday 
accused four current or former partners of accounting firm 
Ernst & Young ERNY.UL in a tax fraud conspiracy case arising 
out of the sale of tax shelters. 

  In an indictment filed in U.S. district court in Manhattan, 
prosecutors allege the defendants at the "Big Four" accounting 
firm created and marketed tax shelters from 1998 through 2004 
based on false and fraudulent scenarios to allow wealthy 
individuals to reduce the federal taxes they would have to pay.  The Ernst & Young current or former partners named in the 
case are Robert Coplan, Martin Nissenbaum, Richard Shapiro and 
Brian Vaughn.  A lawyer for Shapiro, John Tigue, said he has cooperated 
with the government for the last five years.  "He intends to vigorously defend himself," Tigue said in a 
statement.  Brian Linder, a lawyer for Nissenbaum, said in a statement 
that his client has entered a plea of "not guilty."  "We have provided them (The U.S. attorney's office) over 
the past year with evidence that Mr. Nissenbaum did not engage 
in any unlawful activity," Linder said.  Lawyers for Coplan and Vaughn could not be immediately 
reached for comment.  Prosecutors allege that the four defendants schemed to 
defraud the IRS by deceiving the IRS about tax shelters that 
were marketed and sold to clients with taxable income, 
generally higher than $10 or $20 million.  The indictment also charges that Coplan, Nissenbaum and 
Shapiro implemented tax shelters in 2000 to evade their own 
taxes, and arranged for eight other Ernst & Young partners to 
participate in that transaction, evading $3.7 million in taxes.  Ernst & Young has made changes to its tax practice since 
the transactions in question, the accounting firm said.  "The individuals who were indicted are two former partners 
and two partners who have been on administrative leave," Ernst 
& Young spokesman Charles Perkins said in a statement. "They 
were part of a small group within the firm, disbanded years 
ago,.... Ernst & Young has cooperated with the government from 
the beginning of its investigation, and we will continue to do 
so."  Rival "Big Four" accounting firm KPMG KPMG.UL has also 
been under scrutiny for tax shelters. In 2005, KPMG agreed to 
pay $456 million, accept an outside monitor and admit to 
wrongdoing to resolve a federal investigation into questionable 
tax shelters it sold to wealthy individuals.  Sixteen of the KPMG's former employees are due to face 
trial over the shelters in September.  (Additional reporting by  Martha Graybow )