-- MySpace owner to buy Photobucket
-- By  Kenneth Li
-- Wed May 30, 2007 7:20pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/30/businesspro-newscorp-takeover-photobucke-idUSN3046022620070530

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - MySpace-owner Fox Interactive Media 
said on Wednesday it will buy photo-sharing site Photobucket 
and Flektor Inc., a provider of Web-based photo editing 
software, to give its more than 100 million unique visitors 
tools to create their own content. 

  Terms of the deals were not disclosed. Earlier, a source 
familiar with the talks said the Photobucket deal was worth 
about $250 million. A separate source said on Wednesday the 
Flektor deal was worth about $20 million.  The two purchases are part of News Corp.'s NWS.N plan to 
bolster its Internet businesses, which are expected to generate 
about $500 million this fiscal year, and about $1 billion in 
2008.  Photobucket lets its more than 42 million users upload 
photos and videos, which can be pasted on their own Web sites, 
blogs and social networks like MySpace. Some 40 percent of its 
users have already posted their content on MySpace.  Culver City, California-based Flektor offers easy-to-use 
software tools to manipulate photos and videos.  Fox Interactive President Peter Levinsohn said in a 
telephone interview he saw Flektor's technology being used 
across other News Corp.-owned Internet services, including 
AmericanIdol.com and games-related IGN.  "If you combine MySpace, the largest social networking 
platform in the U.S., and Photobucket, the preeminent personal 
media destination, we feel like we've got a fantastic package 
of assets that differentiates us in the marketplace," Levinsohn 
said.  The long-anticipated Photobucket deal comes after a high 
profile but short-lived flap between the two companies. MySpace 
blocked photos from Photobucket when Photobucket began 
displaying ads in photo windows that appeared on MySpace.  Fox executives said the Photobucket had run afoul of 
MySpace's terms of service agreement that forbids companies 
from the unauthorized commercial use of the service.  Levinsohn said Fox has been reviewing its terms of services 
agreement to explore relaxing current rules regarding 
third-party commercial use, amid far smaller rival Facebook's 
move to allow so-called widget companies to profit from its 
service.  "The fact that they're (Facebook) enabling them (third 
party widget companies) to sell ads is something we're looking 
at and have been looking at," Levinsohn said. "Do I think at 
some point we will change that? We're looking at it every day 
to try to come up with the right solution."  Far fewer number of users are on Facebook, which up until 
last September was closed to regular users, who did not attend 
college.  But it has embarked on an aggressive expansion plan and 
last week announced 65 partnerships to allow widget companies 
that create software to run on other services like MySpace and 
Facebook to begin building and profiting from Web applications 
for Facebook.  Photobucket serves about 3.5 billion images each day across 
the Internet. Users of the service upload about 50,000 new 
videos per day, similar to MySpace user statistics, Levinsohn 
said. The deal "confirms our position as easily the No. 2 
player in the online video space," he said, behind Google 
Inc.'s ( GOOG.O ) YouTube.  Photobucket will be operated as a standalone site and 
continue to serve some 300,000 other Web sites.  (Additional reporting by Anup Roy in Bangalore)