-- Fed's Yellen: Inflation decline to be bumpy ride
-- By  Ros Krasny
-- Thu Jul 12, 2007 9:02pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/13/businesspro-usa-fed-yellen-dc-idUSN1231778220070713

 

 ANCHORAGE, Alaska  (Reuters) - San Francisco Federal Reserve 
President Janet Yellen said on Thursday that current U.S. 
interest rate policy should promote a gradual drop in 
inflation, but the recent rapid deceleration in price pressures 
could be hard to sustain. 

  Risks remain skewed toward higher prices, especially 
because of the possibility of wage inflation, meaning an 
"asymmetric policy tilt" is appropriate for now, Yellen said.  However, talking to reporters after a speech to a business 
leaders group, Yellen said that, among a range of employment 
indicators tracked by the Fed, only the jobless rate was really 
"flashing" signs of tightness in the labor market.  Compensation figures, which have been subdued despite low 
unemployment that often push up wages over time, "mitigate my 
concern a little bit," Yellen said.  Yellen termed a recent brisk decline in core inflation, or 
prices stripped of food and energy costs, "heartening" but said 
price pressures would probably not continue to wane at the 
rapid clip seen over the past few months.  "I expect to see some further improvement in core inflation 
over the next year or two," she said.  But recent monthly readings on core inflation, or prices 
stripped of food and energy, have been "really pretty low" and 
could bounce again before falling.  "I'm not yet convinced we are sustainably at 1.9 percent," 
she added.  The core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) index, the 
Fed's favorite inflation measure, dipped to a year-on-year 1.9 
percent in May, back within the Fed's assumed comfort zone of 1 
percent to 2 percent.  Yellen said there was "no mechanical answer" to how long 
inflation needed to stay at a certain level before the Fed 
would consider the inflation threat has passed.
  CORE VS HEADLINE  The central bank has made no fundamental change in the way 
it looks at inflation, Yellen said, adding that she is aware of 
criticism that policymakers are not paying more heed to rising 
food and energy costs.  "We've always thought about food and energy prices. I don't 
see that particularly changing," she said.  Yellen said core inflation is still "a better forward 
looking measure," in part because higher food and energy prices 
are reflected to the extent that they "pass through" to the 
cost of other goods.  "In the grand scheme of things these (indexes) move 
together," Yellen said of the array of headline, core, trimmed 
mean and other price measures now in vogue. "You stabilize one, 
you stabilize the other."  The inflation process "seems to have changed" in recent 
years, with inflation expectations "quite well anchored" 
despite sustained high energy prices, she said.  The Federal Open Market Committee in June left the its  benchmark overnight lending rate at 5.25 percent for an 
eighth consecutive meeting. Futures prices currently imply 
about a 20 percent chance the FOMC will lower rates by 
year-end.  Yellen said the current Fed funds rate avoided the risk of 
an economic downturn, but should be high enough to produce some 
slack in the goods and labor markets.  She forecast moderate U.S. economic growth through the end 
of 2008, with housing likely to be less of a drag on gross 
domestic product going forward.  Troubles in the subprime home mortgage market, back on the 
front pages this week, are unlikely to contaminate the broader 
economy.  "I do not consider it very likely that developments related 
to subprime mortgages will have a big effect on overall U.S. 
economic performance," she said.  Housing is likely to be less of a drag going forward even 
though tighter credit conditions and higher mortgage 
foreclosures could deepen the housing downturn, she added.