-- Hedge fund tells Ceridian it can top takeover deal
-- By Svea Herbst-Bayliss
-- Thu Jul 12, 2007 8:17pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/13/businesspro-ceridian-pershing-square-dc-idUSN1232627020070713

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - Ceridian Corp.'s ( CEN.N ) biggest 
shareholder, William Ackman, told the board on Thursday that he 
can come up with a better deal for shareholders than a proposed 
$5.3 billion takeover bid management hammered out. 

  The human-resource and payroll company said last month it 
would welcome shareholders' involvement and is ready to review 
any proposals that might top a $36 per share takeover offer 
made by Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Fidelity National 
Financial.  Ceridian rose 18 cents to close at $35.22 on the New York 
Stock Exchange.  Ackman's New York-based hedge fund Pershing Square Capital 
Management LP, which successfully prodded McDonald's and 
Wendy's into making changes, vowed to fight the Ceridian plan 
and hired an investment bank and law firm to help.  Ackman, who owns a 14.9 percent stake, has long said 
Ceridian's stock is worth far more than $36, but has never 
given a target price.  When Ackman protested the takeover plan, Ceridian promised 
to entertain other offers. Now the hedge fund is taking the 
company at its word. On Thursday, Ackman told the board his 
alternatives include selling the entire company, selling part 
of it, or recapitalizing it. "We are confident that with your 
cooperation each of these approaches is reasonably likely to 
result in a 'Superior Proposal' within the meaning of your 
merger agreement," Ackman wrote.  The letter was made public in a regulatory filing.  A senior Pershing Square executive declined to comment 
further on the matter.  Ackman is in touch with potential buyers, but has not said 
who they are, the executive said.  Pershing Square's position to fight the deal improved after 
a shareholder lawsuit was partly settled. Ceridian has now 
agreed to amend the merger agreement to keep a would-be buyer 
from walking away if Ackman's proposed slate of directors were 
elected at this year's annual meeting. It also lowers the 
threshold for what would be called a "superior proposal" to 40 
percent from 66.6 percent.  In his letter Ackman requests that management allow him and 
his advisors, investment bank Lazard Freres & Co. and law firm 
Sullivan & Cromwell, to review sensitive financial documents so 
that would-be bidders can better decide what to do next.  Ackman plans to nominate a slate of seven directors stocked 
with industry experts to run against Ceridian's board in 
September.  Separately, Bloomberg reported that Ackman has bought more 
than 5 percent of discount retailer Target Corp., which helped 
send the company's share price up by as much 7 percent.  Ackman is a long-term investor who tends to prefer building 
a few positions slowly and over time. Investors have 10 
calendar days to tell regulators if they have built a stake of 
more than 5 percent.  A Pershing Square spokesman declined to comment on the 
Target stake.