-- Rio's Alcan deal spotlights alumina, bauxite
-- By  James Regan
-- Fri Jul 13, 2007 2:25am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/13/businesspro-riotinto-alcan-dc-idUSSYD4875820070713

 

 SYDNEY  (Reuters) - Rio Tinto Ltd.'s $38.1 billion takeover 
of Alcan Inc. is set to reap benefits from not just China's 
appetite for aluminum, but also the bauxite and alumina needed 
to make it, analysts said on Friday. 

  Rio's recommended offer for Alcan, which immediately 
eliminated a lower one by arch-rival Alcoa Inc. will make Rio 
the world's largest aluminum maker.  With a combined smelting capacity approaching 4.4 million 
tons -- out of a projected 37 million tons to be consumed 
worldwide this year, Rio will easily eclipse other sector 
giants United Company Rusal, Aluminum Corp. of China and Alcoa 
in size.  It also elevates Rio to the world's number one bauxite 
miner and puts it on the way to becoming the top alumina 
supplier, without which aluminum cannot be made.  "This puts Rio in a good spot to serve the China market, 
which is the world's fastest growing for aluminum and the raw 
materials," said Eagle Mining Research analyst Keith Goode.  It will also spread the Anglo-Australian company's profit 
center further from its key revenue getters iron ore and 
copper, giving it more status as one of the world's largest 
diversified mining houses better able to weather cyclical 
downturns in any single commodity.  Rio's shares eased 2.5 percent to A$101.30, tracking the 
London-listed shares lower, but remain near record highs.  Rio Chief Executive Tom Albanese, in announcing the 
knock-out $101 per share transaction -- a 65.5 percent premium 
to Alcan's record high share price in May -- emphasized the 
China connection.  "This story is all about China," he said.  Rio, like its closest rivals is reaping billions in revenue 
from China's commodities boom, using much of the cash the same 
way -- to buy other companies.  CVRD bought Inco, BHP Billiton Ltd./Plc. snapped up Western 
Mining, while Xstrata acquired Falconbridge.  "This all-cash bid illustrates the benefits of a current 
commodity boom for resource producers, generating record 
profits and strong balance sheets," Bob Cunneen Senior 
Australian Economist for AMP Capital Investors. "The trend is 
for further consolidation."  Alcoa's decision to drop out of the bidding for Alcan has 
left it exposed to predators of its own, analysts said.  BHP, the world's biggest miner, was in talks with private 
equity firms to team up for a possible $40 billion bid for U.S. 
aluminum company Alcoa, said media reports this week.  Partners could include the Blackstone Group which had 
employed Paul O'Neill, a former United States Treasury 
Secretary and chief executive of Alcoa from 1987 to 1999, as 
one of its special advisers.  BHP shares hit a fresh record high in Australian trade, and 
closed up 1.1 percent at A$39.16 in afternoon trade.
  CHINA DEMAND  Betting on the China story, say analysts, is a sure thing.  Aluminum consumption in China rocketed 47 percent in the 
first quarter of 2007, driven by strong growth in building 
construction, electrical power grids and consumer durables, 
said Eamon McGinn, a metals analyst at the Australian Bureau of 
Agricultural and Resource Economics in Canberra.  Next year, McGinn said, China should gobble around 13.2 
million tons of aluminum, marking an 18 percent year-on-year 
rise.  While a portion of that aluminum will be produced 
domestically -- Chinese supplies have shown 14 percent compound 
growth for the last four years -- China still requires vast 
tonnages of bauxite and alumina.  "Alcan's smelting assets are the main prize here," Merrill 
Lynch said in a clients report, which also noted the combined 
group's new ranking as world number one bauxite miner and 
number four alumina producer.  The Asia Pacific region is forecast to remain the fastest 
growing, as well as the largest, bauxite and alumina market in 
the world, last year accounting for 43 percent of global 
demand, according to researcher Global Industry Analysts.  Flags are up, though, over the slow pace of growth in the 
price of aluminum.  "The interesting observation on this deal is that it only 
makes sense with a long-term aluminum price well above the 
level presently used by the market for valuations," said Peter 
Richardson, a strategist at Craton Capital, a Europe-based 
fund,  Richardson added that Rio, one of the most conservative 
mining companies when it comes to mergers and acquisitions, had 
concluded it was a lot cheaper to buy assets than build them.  Analysts forecast cash aluminum prices would average $2,712 
a ton in 2007 in a Reuters poll on Wednesday, up 13 percent 
from forecasts at the start of the year.  ($1=A$1.15)