-- Warner struggles on EMI decision as music sales fall
-- By  Megan Davies  and  Yinka Adegoke
-- Thu Jul 12, 2007 9:50pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/13/industry-column-deal-emi-dc-idUSN1225987220070713

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Warner Music Group's decision on 
whether to counter bid for British rival EMI Group has become a 
tortuously long one, as the No. 4 player grapples with exposing 
itself further to recorded music amid a faster-than-expected 
decline in the industry. 

  EMI agreed to a 2.4 billion pounds ($4.73 billion) takeover 
from private equity group Terra Firma in May, thwarting a 
seven-year flirtation between Warner and EMI.  For Warner, which has a market value of about $2.2 billion, 
it's make-your-mind-up time, with a July 19 deadline to bid 
fast approaching.  But with recorded music sales dropping more rapidly than 
industry expectations this year and a weak near-term outlook, 
Warner management is struggling to come to a decision on 
whether to take the plunge.  "Valuations in the music space are not going in the right 
direction," said an industry insider familiar with Warner's 
talks. Warner's shares have fallen more than 17 percent since 
Terra Firma's May 21 bid.  The executive, who asked not to be named, said that 
alongside market valuations, Warner's decision will be impacted 
by its own opinion of EMI's worth after going through the 
rival's books while watching debt markets trending up. The cost 
of debt has increased in recent weeks as investors have been 
shaken by rising subprime mortgage defaults and the recent 
near-collapse of several hedge funds.  "All these things combined show that Terra Firma paid a lot 
of money," said the executive.  Warner management has been considering all options for EMI, 
including a counter-bid, walking away altogether, or just 
waiting to see if it could buy the recorded music division from 
Terra Firma at a later date, the executive said.  The company, the fourth-largest after Universal Music 
Group, owned by French media giant Vivendi, Sony BMG Music 
Entertainment, and EMI, said in June that it was still 
considering an offer for EMI but would only make a bid if it 
first received anti-trust clearance.  The chances of getting regulatory approval were boosted in 
February when independent record labels agreed to support a 
tie-up between the two, leaving the biggest question the 
economic one.  The market clearly expects Warner to make a move, with a 
small minority of EMI shareholders having accepted the offer so 
far while the company's share price is trading above Terra 
Firma's offer, and on Thursday closing at 269 pounds sterling.  "EMI shareholders certainly seem to have voted by just 
standing there and waiting," said Bishop Cheen, analyst at 
Wachovia Capital Markets LLC.
  WARNER'S CHOICES  Warner's delay on a decision comes amid a change in the 
recorded music industry which has been hit by people moving 
from traditional CDs to digital songs that are downloadable 
from the Internet and therefore more subject to piracy.  Sales of CDs were down nearly 20 percent year-on-year for 
the first half of 2007 and the industry's hopes that digital 
music sales would make up for the shortfall have yet to be 
fulfilled.  Richard Greenfield of Pali Research thinks a deal between 
Warner and EMI would simply be adding two weak businesses 
together with limited upside.  "Music industry revenues are set to decline for the next 
several years," said Greenfield. "So having an greater amount 
of revenues that are declining and being more highly leveraged 
makes for a difficult situation."  To win EMI, Warner may need to significantly out-bid Terra 
Firma's 265p offer -- some analysts say it would need to be at 
least 300p per share to succeed. Warner's last formal bid for 
EMI was in February at 260 pence a share.  But Cheen argues that EMI is an expensive deal and that the 
private equity firms that bought Warner in 2003 from Time 
Warner, and took the music label public a year later are likely 
reluctant to pay too much.  "They acquired Warner Music from a very motivated seller in 
'03 at essentially half price," said Cheen in a recent 
interview. "They made all their money back. What exactly is the 
motivation to ... do it again?"  Cheen says Bronfman is very keen on owning EMI, but the 
decision would come down to the private equity owners.  Warner Music was bought for $2.6 billion by an investor 
group led by Thomas H. Lee Partners, chief executive Edgar 
Bronfman Jr., Bain Capital and Providence Equity Partners. They 
took the company public the following year although the three 
private equity groups still own about 62 percent, according to 
Reuters data.  If Warner decides against bidding, it could push its 
energies into growing its publishing unit and diversifying the 
business in areas including artist management, touring and 
merchandising, the executive said.  Analysts also question whether Warner would become a 
takeover target itself. "The three private equity groups that 
control 60 percent ... could be looking for an exit at top 
dollar, having already recouped all of their original $2.6 
billion investment via prior recaps and the IPO," Cheen wrote 
in a recent research report.  (Additional reporting by  Kate Holton  in London)