-- Greece Joins Gazprom's South Stream Pipeline to EU
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2008-04-29T15:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-29/greece-joins-gazprom-s-south-stream-pipeline-to-eu-update1-.html

          
          
             Greece  became the latest European
country to join  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) 's South Stream pipeline project as
 Russia  lines up partners for its newest natural-gas export route
to  Europe .  
 Russian Energy Minister Viktor Khristenko and Greek
Development Minister Christos Folias signed the agreement at a
Kremlin ceremony today, state-run news channel Vesti-24 reported.
Greek Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis earlier held meetings with
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  and his successor,  Dmitry Medvedev , who takes office May 7.  
 Greece joins  Bulgaria , Serbia and Hungary as partners in
South Stream, a 900-kilometer (560-mile) pipeline that will
travel under the Black Sea linking Russia to the Balkans, where
it will split into northern and southern routes. Gazprom plans to
raise its gas-export capacity to Europe by more than 50 percent
with South Stream and a complementary northern pipeline under the
 Baltic Sea .  
 ``If Greece had to buy some ordinary wares -- watches,
underpants or ties -- it could have bought them anywhere,'' Putin
said after the ceremony. ``But you can count on one hand the
countries that can offer primary energy sources in the necessary
volumes and at competitive prices for Europe.''  
 Gazprom, with  Italy 's  Eni SpA (ENI)  as a shareholder, announced
South Stream in June. Since then, Russia, which already supplies
a quarter of Europe's gas, has completed agreements with almost
all the countries along the pipeline's route.  
 Nabucco Stalls  
 Meanwhile, the European Union-backed Nabucco gas pipeline,
which is planned to take a similar route and carry the same
volume through the Balkans to central Europe, has stalled because
of uncertainty over partners and suppliers.  
 ``The fact we're implementing South Stream doesn't mean
we're fighting alternative projects,'' Putin said today. ``If
someone is able to carry out a similar project economically and
secure it with the required gas volumes, we'll only be happy.''  
 Today's agreement provides for the establishment of a 50-50
venture to design, build and operate a section of pipeline on
Greek soil, the Russian Energy Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement. South Stream's southern branch, with an annual
capacity of at least 10 billion cubic meters, will pass from
Bulgaria through Greece and on to Italy via a pipeline under the
 Adriatic Sea .  
 Greek annual gas demand may double to 7 billion cubic meters
within eight years, Putin said.  
 `Important Link'  
 ``We guarantee that volume for Greece itself,'' he said.
``And once the project is finished, Greece will become an
important link in the energy politics of Europe as a whole.''  
 Russia also plans to build an oil pipeline from Burgas,
Bulgaria, to Alexandroupolis, Greece, to help bring crude from
the  Black Sea  to the Mediterranean without passing through the
clogged Turkish straits.  
 Putin said the feasibility study for the Burgas-
Alexandroupolis pipeline would be completed ``very soon.''  
 ``Russia would like this to be done as fast as possible,''
Putin said about the project, which has been on the drawing board
for years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucian Kim in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles on 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        