-- Watson's Florida Plant Cleared in U.S. Inspection
-- Lisa Rapaport
-- 2008-04-29T12:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-29/watson-s-florida-plant-cleared-in-u-s-inspection-update2-.html

          
          
             Watson Pharmaceuticals (WPI)  Inc., the
second-largest U.S. maker of generic drugs, moved closer to
having new medicines approved after U.S. regulators said the
company's Davie, Florida, plant passed an inspection.  
 The Food and Drug Administration completed its review of
the facility on April 10 and removed an ``official action
indicated'' status that had barred approval of medicines from
the facility since 2005, the Corona, California-based company
said today in a statement.  
 Watson makes primarily controlled-release tablets and
capsules at its plant in Davie, said Patty Eisenhaur, a company
spokeswoman, in an interview today. Generic versions of
AstraZeneca Plc's antacid Prilosec and blood-pressure medicine
Toprol are among the most important product approvals delayed by
the inspection, Eisenhaur said.  
 ``The products were moving through the process and now we
anticipate FDA action by mid-2008,'' Eisenhaur said.  
 Watson was unchanged in early trading on the  New York  Stock
Exchange, after falling 35 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $29.14
yesterday. The  stock  gained 6.2 percent in the 12 months before
today.  
 The plant was acquired in Watson's $1.9 billion purchase of
Andrx Corp. in November 2006. In September 2005, Andrx reported
that it may face FDA sanctions including fines, product seizures
and suspension of U.S. drug reviews because of deficiencies in
its manufacturing process. The company hasn't described the
deficiencies.  
 Watson ranks second among U.S. generic drugmakers by sales,
after  Mylan (MYL)  Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 Lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        