-- BHP Wins Agreement From Japan Smelters on Copper Fees
-- Shigeru Fujimoto
-- 2006-12-26T08:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-26/bhp-wins-agreement-from-japan-smelters-on-copper-fees-update3-.html

          
          
             BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world's
largest miner, has reached agreements on 2007 fees for processing
copper in  Japan , persuading at least one smelter to accept a
reduction that highlights a global shortage of raw materials.  
 Pan Pacific Copper Co. and  Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. (5713) ,
Japan's biggest smelters, reached respective agreements with BHP
on Dec. 20 and Dec. 22, officials at the two smelters said.
Sumitomo accepted lower fees and agreed to terminate a clause
that would have allowed it to benefit from any increase in copper
prices, spokesman Hiromasa Ooba said by phone from Tokyo.  
 A reduced supply of raw materials, combined with growth in
smelting capacity, gave BHP a strong hand in the negotiations,
which set a benchmark for other Japanese smelters and could
reduce their earnings. Copper prices have fallen 26 percent from
a record high close of $8,800 a metric ton on May 11.  
 ``Copper smelting margins may fall by about 30 percent
compared with this year,'' Hiroyuki Suzuki, a senior analyst at
Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said, adding that
earnings of individual smelters would depend on the extent to
which their businesses are diversified.  
 Pan Pacific Copper Co., Japan's biggest smelter, is a joint
venture between a unit of Nippon Mining Holdings Inc. and Mitsui
Mining & Smelting Co. Etsuko Hanashima, a spokeswoman for Nippon
Mining Holdings Inc., confirmed the agreement with BHP, while
giving no details. Melbourne-based BHP Billiton spokeswoman
Samantha Evans declined to comment.  
 ``Price Participation''  
 BHP agreed last month with smelters in India and South Korea
on treatment charges of $60 a metric ton and refining fees of 6.0
cents a pound. It also terminated the so-called ``price
participation'' clause allowing smelters to benefit from any rise
in copper prices.  
 ``Our treatment and refining charges are similar to those of
other smelters in  India , China and South Korea,'' Sumitomo's Ooba
said, adding that there would be no price participation.  
 Smelters buy ore and concentrate at a price based on the
London Metal Exchange benchmark minus the processing fees.
Chinese smelters settled 2006 fees of $90 and 9 cents, while
other Asian smelters, including Japan, agreed $95 and 9.5 cents.  
 Under the price-participation clause for 2006 contracts,
smelters charged an extra 10 percent of the increase in copper
prices once they rose above 90 cents a pound.  
 For mid-year contracts that started on July 1, Japanese
smelters agreed to charge $60/6 cents and to cap the price-
participation up to $1.80 a pound with a base price of $1.20.  
 Raw Materials  
 The market for copper concentrates, used to make refined
copper, will remain in deficit in 2007 and 2008 as smelting
capacity growth outpaces mine supplies, BHP Billiton said on Dec.
15. Smelting capacity has expanded in  China  and India to meet
rising demand for copper, used in wires and pipes.  
 Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange, up 44 percent this year, closed at $6,325 a metric ton
on Friday. There was no trading on Monday and Tuesday because of
the Christmas and Boxing Day holidays.  
 Shares of Nippon Mining Holdings rose 11 yen, or 1.3 percent,
today to close at 860 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Sumitomo
Metal Mining, which is also Japan's largest producer of nickel
and gold, rose 75 yen, or 5.1 percent, to 1,542 yen.  
 Shares of BHP closed down 1 percent at A$25.05 when they
last traded on Friday on the Australian stock exchange.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Singapore at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Fujimoto in Tokyo at 
 sfujimoto@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        