-- Best Buy looks to new categories to drive sales
-- 
-- Wed Jul 9, 2008 2:50pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/09/businesspro-bestbuy-dc-idUSN0941811120080709

 

 ATLANTA  (Reuters) - Electronics retailer Best Buy Co 
( BBY.N ) is looking to new product categories and business 
models to help it double annual sales to $80 billion over the 
next five years, executives said on Wednesday. 

  Mike Vitelli, executive vice president for customer 
operating groups, told an Oppenheimer Consumer Growth 
Conference that while Best Buy will add stores and boost its 
market share in mainstay categories such as computers and cell 
phones to drive growth, it plans to move into product areas 
that are outside traditional consumer electronics.  For example, in some stores Best Buy is selling an 
extensive assortment of musical instruments, a stepped-up 
offering from the basic keyboards and guitars that are 
available in all stores, he said.  "We believe that is an example of categories that we can 
add to the traditional Best Buy box that customers will give us 
credit for and get us into spaces that we're not into today," 
Vitelli said. His comments were carried over the Internet.  Vitelli also said that Pacific Sales Kitchen and Bath 
Centers, a high-end appliance chain that Best Buy bought about 
two years ago, was a store model that the retailer plans to 
expand nationwide beyond its California base.  He also said digital services and international expansion 
would fuel sales growth. In May, Best Buy agreed to pay $2 
billion to create a joint venture with Britain's Carphone 
Warehouse Group ( CPW.L ) that is expected to open Best Buy 
stores in Europe.  Minneapolis-based Best Buy is gaining market share and 
faring better than rivals such as Virginia-based Circuit City 
Stores CC.N, which is exploring strategic options.  Ryan Robinson, finance chief of Best Buy's U.S. strategic 
business unit, said the Carphone deal would be "modestly 
accretive" to Best Buy's earnings this year. In June, the 
retailer backed a forecast calling for full-year profit of 
$3.25 to $3.40 a share.  Best Buy shares were off 37 cents to $40.43 in afternoon 
New York Stock Exchange trading.  (Reporting by  Karen Jacobs ; Editing by Steve Orlofsky)