-- L.B. Foster, Portec Settle With U.S. Justice Department on Merger Deal
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-14T21:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/l-b-foster-portec-settle-with-u-s-justice-department-on-merger-deal.html
L.B. Foster Co.  agreed to sell a
railroad parts plant in West Virginia to settle a U.S. Justice
Department lawsuit blocking the company’s acquisition of  Portec
Rail Products Inc.   The lawsuit, filed with the proposed settlement in federal
court in Washington today, stated that L.B. Foster’s proposed
$114 million acquisition of Portec would substantially lessen
competition in two separate rail-joints markets. The Justice
Department said in court papers it would allow the deal to go
through if the companies divest certain products, including a
plant in Huntington, West Virginia.  “Foster and Portec are virtually the only manufacturers of
bonded joints in the United States and currently supply
approximately 95 percent of the market,” the Justice Department
said in its complaint. “For many customers, Foster and Portec
are the only approved suppliers of these joints.”  The two Pittsburgh-based companies agreed to merge in
February. According to the Justice Department, the divested
assets will be sold to Koppers Inc., a Pittsburgh-based producer
of carbon compounds and wood products.  The public has at least 60 days to submit comments to the
Justice Department on the proposed settlement, which must then
be approved by a judge.  Stan L. Hasselbusch , president and chief executive officer
of L.B. Foster, said in a statement that “we thank the DOJ for
their expeditious approval and their cooperation with us
throughout this entire process.”  John Pesarsick , chief financial officer and principal
accounting officer at Portec, didn’t immediately return a phone
message seeking comment.  Gina Talamona , a Justice Department
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Rail joints are the steel bars that connect the rails to
one another. The companies make insulated joints, which are used
to break the electric current flowing through the rail.  The case is U.S. v. L.B. Foster Co., 10-cv-02115, District
of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Schoenberg  in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 