-- `Immoral' U.K. Rights Offer Fees Should Be Reduced, Investors' Group Says
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-12-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/-immoral-u-k-rights-offer-fees-should-be-reduced-investors-group-says.html
Banks underwriting U.K. rights
offers should cut fees to reflect the actual risks involved,
according to a report published by Institutional Investor
Council, a group representing the country’s major investors.  The group said issuers “consistently” told them the fees
banks receive from underwriting rights offers are “too high and
indeed in the words of one, usually immoral.” While higher fees
were legitimate during the financial crisis given bigger risks
underwriters took, the cost should drop from the middle of 2009
to reflect a “benign market environment,” according to the
report, “ Rights Issue Fees Inquiry ,” released today.  Volatility in the U.K. stock market dropped to almost the
pre-crisis level as the  VFTSE Index , a gauge that measures the
cost of protecting against declines in the benchmark FTSE 100
Index, fell to the lowest level since June 2007 and is about 86
percent lower than its peak reached in October 2008 following
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Underwriters charged an average of 3.13 percent for fees on
the U.K. rights offers from 2009 to Dec. 13, 2010, according to
data available in 69 percent of the deals recorded by Bloomberg.
The issuers paid banks 2 percent to 2.9 percent from 1999 to
2007, according to the IIC report.  “Fees have not yet come down to a more normal pre-crisis
level so the companies should be striking a harder bargain,”
 Tom Troubridge , London-based head of the capital-markets group
at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said yesterday by phone.
“Investors would always want to pay lower fees, but it’s
difficult for them to get directly involved in the negotiation.
They’ll have to put pressure on the companies.”  Rights Offers  In a rights offer, a company gives existing investors the
option to buy new stock, often at a discount. Shareholders can
choose to buy the shares or sell the rights.  Banks acting as underwriters risk buying the unsold chunk
of shares at the offer price if investors balk at the deal.
Morgan Stanley and Dresdner Kleinwort Ltd. were among firms left
with as much as 92 percent of Edinburgh-based lender HBOS Plc’s
4.2 billion-pound ($6.7 billion) sale in July 2008 after the
shares fell below the offer price.  “We would expect the costs of underwriting and sub-
underwriting to fall,” said  Douglas Ferrans , the former
chairman of Invista Real Estate Management Holdings Plc who led
the IIC research. “Following the understandable dislocation
arising out of the financial crisis, which unquestionably
increased the risks associated with equity issuance and the
costs of providing protection, conditions for capital raising
have improved.”  Bankers’ Fees  Companies raised $80.2 billion from rights offers in London
in the past two years, paying banks about $2.5 billion for
underwriting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. were the top two
underwriters for U.K. rights issues during the period.  London-based spokesmen for JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs
declined to comment.  To reduce the “mismatch” between underwriting fees and
the risks, issuers should be required to disclose more details
of the payments, seek greater competition among the banks, and
involve institutional shareholders in the process of capital
raising, according to the report.  The study was done in collaboration with the Investment
Management Association, the Association of British Insurers and
the National Association of Pension Funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ; 