-- ADB to Offer Guarantees for $425 Million of Solar Power Projects in India
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-12-14T09:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/adb-to-guarantee-425-million-of-indian-solar-projects-update1-.html
The  Asian Development Bank  plans to
back $425 million worth of investments in India’s solar power
plants to help the projects secure financing.  The Manila-based lender plans to guarantee 50 percent of
loans that international and Indian banks make to solar projects
that have less than 30 megawatts of capacity in the country,
Sujata Gupta, head of the bank’s private sector group in India,
told reporters today in Mumbai.  “We are also looking to help extend the tenures of the
loans,” Gupta said. The ADB may help extend bank loans from an
eight-year payback period to about 15 years, she said.  India, which the aims to generate 20,000 megawatts of
electricity from the sun by 2022, today announced 37 winners of
the country’s first solar power project auction.  The ADB is willing to cover as much as $150 million of any
payment defaults from the projects resulting from problems
including technological failures, financial difficulties or
insufficient solar irradiation that could affect their output,
Gupta said. It will offer guarantees for loans made over the
next three years, she said.  That amount is enough to support a total of about $425
million worth of investments in solar projects, she said. The
guarantee mechanism will back commercial loans made in Indian
rupees, euros or U.S. dollars, she said.  The Manila-based lender came up with the credit-guarantee
mechanism to encourage private banks to lend to solar projects
whose sizes are capped at 5 megawatts by government rules and
are too small for the ADB to lend to itself, Gupta said. The ADB
is willing to invest directly to take as much as a 25 percent
stake in solar projects of more than 30 megawatts of capacity,
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  