-- Madoff Claimants Accept Smaller Sums Now, Ahead of Later Payout by Trustee
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/madoff-claims-trade-from-655-000-to-14-6-million-records-show.html
Bankruptcy claims against  Bernard L. Madoff ’s firm have traded for as much as $14.6 million since
July with sellers accepting lower payments now over future,
perhaps larger payouts from trustee  Irving Picard , according to
court records and lawyers.  The Frederick N. Levinger 1983 Trust of Providence, Rhode
Island, sold two claims totaling $28.7 million to C.V.I.G.V.F.
(LUX) MASTER S.A.R.L., according to July filings in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. The same buyer, listing a c/o
address in Minnetonka, Minnesota, bought two claims that month
with a face value of $3.5 million from the Jay Lawrence Moss
Trust of Newport Beach, California, according to filings.  Prices for those trades weren’t disclosed. Market rates are
25 cents on the dollar, to 35 cents, said  Helen Chaitman , a
Madoff victim and lawyer at Becker & Poliakoff LLP in New York.  “Many of my clients sold their claims because of the
inordinate delays in receiving money from Picard and the lack of
any transparency in the bankruptcy proceeding as to what the
ultimate dividend will be,” she said yesterday in an e-mail.  Kevin McCue, a spokesman for Picard, didn’t immediately
return e-mails seeking comment yesterday.  At SecondMarket, which trades illiquid securities, buyers
of Madoff claims are willing to pay “from the high 20s, to the
low 30s,” said spokesman Mark Murphy. Claims from around the
U.S. are being offered in amounts of $10 million or more, he
said.  SecondMarket Transactions  No transactions have closed at SecondMarket because sellers
are demanding more than buyers will pay, he said.  Picard was appointed in December 2008 to compensate victims
of the con man’s fraud after his arrest for masterminding the
biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history. Picard has recovered about
$2.5 billion for creditors, and has committed to paying
$738 million on behalf of the Securities Investor Protection
Corp., which is obligated to compensate cheated investors with
as much as $500,000 on most claims, according to an October
report filed in court.  Picard now is seeking more than $50 billion through so-
called clawback lawsuits to compensate victims. Targets include
Bank Medici AG and its founder,  Sonja Kohn , sued for
$19.6 billion -- which could triple to $58.8 billion under the
U.S. Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. Picard
has sued hundreds of investors who took more money out of Madoff
funds than they put in.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison after admitting he directed the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. He was arrested and New York-based
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC forced into
bankruptcy when news of the fraud became known in December 2008.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 