-- Thai Airways Coach Bookings Lag Behind Premium Travel
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-14T05:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/thai-air-says-bangkok-riots-still-weigh-on-coach-class-as-premium-rebounds.html
Thai Airways International Pcl ,
Thailand’s largest carrier, said economy-class bookings are
lagging behind corporate travel because deadly anti-government
riots in April triggered a canceling of conferences.  “Once they cancel, those bookings disappear for more than
a year,” President  Piyasvasti Amranand  said in an interview in
Queenstown, New Zealand, where the Star Alliance group of
airlines is holding its annual meeting.  At least 89 people died in the protests, which saw shopping
malls torched and hotels closed amid battles on Bangkok streets
between the military and anti-government demonstrators.
Countries including Australia and Canada issued advisories
against traveling to the Thai capital, and the carrier filled
just 56 percent of its seats in May and lost about $90 million
in revenue.  “Group tours are not really back,” Piyasvasti said. The
carrier is filling about 75 percent of its seats, “which is
lower than it should be,” he said.  The Bangkok-based airline’s stock is up 185 percent this
year, compared with a 41 percent increase in Thailand’s
benchmark SET Index. The shares dropped 1.8 percent, the
steepest decline since Dec. 8, to 53.25 baht as of 11:50 a.m.
local time.  ‘Positive Outlook’  Thai Airways bookings should “get back to normal” during
the first quarter of next year, said Nalyne Viriyasathien, an
analyst at DBS Vickers Securities (Thailand) Co.  “It will take some time to reach the level before the
political violence,” Nalyne said. “The outlook is quite
positive now. The more stable political situation should attract
more tourists next year.”  Piyasvasti, Thailand’s former energy minister, is shopping
for planes after cutting expenses and restructuring debt to help
revive state-controlled Thai after a record  loss  in 2008. The
carrier raised about 15 billion baht ($500 million) from a share
sale to existing shareholders in September.  Thai Airways last month announced plans to put 37 new
airplanes into service by the end of 2017 as it replaces an
aging fleet and seeks to add new routes.  The company will take delivery of six Airbus SAS A380s
starting in 2012 and is in talks with Boeing Co. to be a
“launch customer” for a revamped jetliner known as the 777-X
that will see a new wing designed for the wide-bodied plane,
Piyasvasti said.  Until 2012, most of the new planes will be matched by
retirements of older jetliners. After that, Thai Airways will
focus on seeking new routes.  “Everything should be done by the end of 2012 and then we
will look at more,” Piyasvasti said. “The growth will come
from the second phase of  acquisitions , where we will see 12
narrow-body planes coming in from 2011 and 26 wide-bodied planes
coming in between 2012 and 2017.”  The new planes will increase the airline’s fleet to 107 in
2017 from 84 currently and cut the average age to about eight
years from 11 years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Queenstown at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  