-- AIG Jumps as Chairman Miller Says Citigroup, GM Show Path to Independence
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-12-14T21:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/aig-s-miller-says-citigroup-gm-good-precedents-for-u-s-selling-stake.html
American International Group Inc. 
posted the biggest gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index as
Chairman  Steve Miller  said he is encouraged about the insurer’s
prospects for regaining independence after the U.S. sold stakes
in other bailed-out companies.  The Treasury Department sold  $10.5 billion  of Citigroup
Inc. shares last week and received $13.6 billion from last
month’s offering of General Motors Co. shares.  “Those are good precedents, which give increased
confidence,” Miller said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan .” AIG jumped
$3.25, or 6.7 percent, to $51.77 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Treasury, which invested more than $49 billion to prop up
AIG, plans to convert its preferred stake into common stock by
March 15 and will sell the shares to private investors. The U.S.
may need one to two years, depending on market conditions, to
sell all of its AIG shares, which will be more than 90 percent
of the stock in the New York-based insurer, Miller said.  “Treasury and ourselves are anxious to complete that
job,” Miller said. “Now the markets are open, investors have
confidence in both the board and management of AIG.”  AIG has surged about 73 percent this year in New York
trading. The company sold $2 billion of bonds in November in its
first debt offering since the 2008 bailout that swelled to
$182.3 billion, including assistance from the Federal Reserve.  Benmosche ‘Doing Terrific’  The insurer disclosed in October that Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche , 66, is undergoing “aggressive”
treatment for cancer and that Miller, 69, is available to be
interim CEO if needed. AIG’s board had begun succession planning
before Benmosche’s diagnosis because the CEO intended to retire
in 2012, he told staff.  Benmosche is “doing terrific,” Miller said. “This is a
person who’s showing no signs at this point of any diminution in
his health or energy.”  Miller replaced  Harvey Golub  as chairman of AIG in July
after Benmosche threatened to leave the company unless
Golub resigned. Miller oversaw the bankruptcy of auto-parts
supplier Delphi Corp. and helped Chrysler Corp. return to
profitability after taking government loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 