-- Taiwan May Lower Solar Power Feed-In Tariffs as Installation Costs Decline
-- B y   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 2010-12-14T04:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/taiwan-may-lower-solar-power-feed-in-tariffs-as-installation-costs-decline.html
Taiwan may cut the feed-in tariffs
paid to generators of solar power next year because of the lower
cost of installing equipment that converts sunlight to energy, a
government official said.  The island may increase the payments to producers of wind
power, whose costs are increasing, Su Jin-sheng, a director of
Bureau of Energy, said in an interview in Taipei today. The
government plans to announce the rates for 2011 before the end
of the year, he said.  Solar cell prices may decline 10 percent to 15 percent next
year, according to Chang Ping-heng, chief executive officer of
 Motech Industries Inc. , Taiwan’s biggest solar cell maker by
market value. Global annual capacity to produce solar cells may
climb to as much as 30 gigawatts next year, Chang said Dec. 1.
The estimate exceeds 2011 global demand projection from
technology researcher Isuppli by about 55 percent.  Feed-in tariffs, or the prices that state-run utility
Taiwan Power Co. pays generators, are at least NT$11.12 (37
cents) per kilowatt-hour for photovoltaic solar panels and
NT$2.38 for wind farms, the energy bureau said in a statement on
its  website  in December last year. That compares with an average
cost of NT$2.06 per kilowatt-hour for fossil fuels such as coal
and oil.  Taiwan’s government has set minimum wholesale prices for
electricity generated by solar panels and wind turbines at
higher levels than for those for power from fossil fuels to spur
production of renewable energy. President  Ma Ying-jeou , who took
office in May 2008, has pledged to cut emissions to 2000 levels
by 2025. Lawmakers approved the island’s Renewable Energy
Development Act last year.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Yu-huay Sun  in Taipei 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 