-- U.K. Stocks Drop for First Time in Five Days; Capital Shopping Shares Gain
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-12-15T16:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/allied-irish-banks-ba-supergroup-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks  retreated, with the FTSE
100 Index falling for the first time in five days, as concern
mounted that Moody’s Investors Service may cut Spain’s credit
rating.  Barclays Plc, Britain’s fourth-biggest bank by sales,
retreated 3.7 percent. SuperGroup Plc, which owns the SuperDry
clothing brand, fell the most since its initial public offering
in March, losing 11 percent, as higher costs curbed its profits.
 Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc  climbed 4.9 percent even
after the company rejected Simon Property Group Inc.’s takeover
offer.  The  FTSE 100  slid 0.2 percent to 5,882.18 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London. The benchmark gauge has risen 8.7 percent this
year as the U.S. Federal Reserve unveiled a $600 billion bond-
purchase program to assist the economic recovery and the
European Union bailed out Greece and Ireland. The  FTSE All-Share
Index  was little changed, losing less than 0.1 percent today,
while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  gained 0.1 percent.  “One trend which is going to go into at least the first
quarter of next year is going to be further credit downgrades of
the obvious countries under pressure,” said  Bob Parker , a
senior adviser at Credit Suisse Asset Management, which has 416
billion Swiss francs ($432 billion) in client assets, on
Bloomberg Television’s Countdown with Francine Lacqua. “The
growth differential between Germany and the rest of northern
Europe and the stressed economies is going to remain very wide
indeed.”  European stocks pared losses after Fed data showed U.S.
industrial output increased more than forecast in November,
helped by gains in computers, home electronics and appliances,
signaling factories will support economic growth into next year.  Spanish Credit Rating  Moody’s placed Spain’s Aa1 local and foreign currency
government bond ratings on review and said the country will need
to raise about 170 billion euros ($226 billion) in 2011.
European governments have struggled to stop contagion spreading
from Greece and Ireland to the rest of the euro area.  In the U.K., the number of people receiving  unemployment
benefits  fell by 1,200 from October to 1.46 million last month,
the Office for National Statistics said today in London.  Barclays lost 3.7 percent to 262 pence. The FTSE 350 Banks
Index declined 1.6 percent, its first drop in three days.  SuperGroup, Capital Shopping  SuperGroup tumbled 11 percent to 1,450 pence after its
retail margin contracted on higher costs.  “We had previously understood that SuperGroup expected to
navigate input cost pressures relatively well as a result of its
growing scale and bargaining power with suppliers, so we see
this as a negative turn,” London-based Execution Noble Ltd.
analyst  Sanjay Vidyarthi  wrote in a report today.  Capital Shopping Centres  gained 4.9 percent to 415.6 pence
as the owner of four of the U.K.’s 10 biggest malls rejected an
offer from Simon Property, valuing the company at 2.9 billion
pounds ($4.5 billion).  Ferrexpo Plc climbed 3.5 percent to 385 pence as the iron-
ore producer focusing on Ukraine agreed to acquire Helogistics
Holdings GmbH and its existing bank debt for 28.5 million euros
in cash. Helogistics is an inland waterway transport company
operating on the Danube River.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 