-- Alstom, Bharat Heavy Said to Win Orders for 11 Turbines From NTPC, India
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2010-12-14T13:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/alstom-bharat-heavy-toshiba-are-said-to-win-orders-for-turbines-in-india.html
Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. , Alstom
SA and Toshiba Corp. are among power equipment makers that are
set to win orders for 11 turbines from Indian state-run power
producers, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Bharat Heavy will provide four so-called supercritical
turbines of 660 megawatts each at two sites, one belonging to
 NTPC Ltd.  and another to state-run Damodar Valley Corp, the
people said, declining to be identified before a formal
announcement. A venture between  Alstom  and Bharat Forge Ltd.
will be awarded five 660 megawatt units and  Toshiba  and JSW
Energy Ltd. will supply two units, they said today, after NTPC
selected the suppliers.  The contracts may be worth 11 million rupees ($244,730) per
megawatt, one of the people said. That would value the total
orders at about 79.9 billion rupees.  NTPC, India’s biggest power producer, aims to accelerate
construction of plants to end blackouts that curtail growth in
Asia’s third-biggest economy after failing to meet its expansion
target this fiscal year. Chairman  Arup Roy Choudhury  said today
the utility plans to add 3,100 megawatts of capacity in the year
ending March 31 and 5,500 megawatts in the following 12 months,.  NTPC, based in New Delhi, plans to place orders worth at
least 328.5 billion rupees for generators by March 31, Chairman
Choudhury said Nov. 29.  “We haven’t received the awards yet because the projects
have yet to receive environmental clearances,” Bharat Heavy
Chairman  B.P. Rao  said by telephone from New Delhi today.  The company will award the contracts for the 660 megawatt
boilers in the three months starting Jan. 1, NTPC’s Choudhury
said today, without naming the suppliers. The company plans to
open bidding for 800 megawatt boilers by March, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net . 