-- Ameristar Casinos Says It Is No Longer `Actively' Seeking Possible Buyer
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-12-14T15:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/ameristar-casinos-shelves-efforts-to-sell-itself-update1-.html
Ameristar Casinos Inc. , the owner
and manager of eight U.S. casinos, said it is no longer
“actively” considering selling itself, four months after
announcing it was seeking a possible buyer.  A sale isn’t a strategic alternative anymore “since a sale
is not in the best interests of the company and its stockholders
at this time,” Las Vegas-based Ameristar said today in a
statement. The Transaction Committee will continue exploring
other ways “to enhance stockholder value,” the company said.  Ameristar said Aug. 11 it hired Lazard Ltd. and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch as financial advisers, and Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP as legal adviser to evaluate options including a
sale.  Ameristar fell $1.73, or 9.7 percent, to $16.17 at 9:42
a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . Before today,
the shares had climbed 23 percent since the day before the
possible sale announcement. Ameristar late yesterday declared a
cash dividend of 10.5 cents a share.  About 54 percent of shares are administered by the estate
of founder Craig H. Neilsen on behalf of his foundation, which
funds primarily spinal-cord injury research. Neilsen, who ran
the company for decades, died in November 2006. He was paralyzed
in a November 1985 car accident while driving home from the
company’s casinos in Jackpot, Nevada.  Ameristar became an acquisition target after Neilsen’s
death. The majority shareholder will consider “alternatives”
including selling or merging the company in the best interests
of the foundation, the company said in an October 2007  filing 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Kanofsky , who is also vice
chairman, is co-executor of the estate foundation, together with
the company’s chairman,  Ray Neilsen , Craig’s son.  Ameristar has casinos in Missouri, Colorado, Mississippi,
Indiana, Iowa and Nevada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  