-- Manchester City Ready to Sue Tevez Over Quit Threat, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-12-14T10:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/manchester-city-ready-to-sue-tevez-over-quit-threat-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Tevez News  Manchester City is prepared to sue  Carlos Tevez  for up to
50 million pounds ($79 million) if he goes through with his
threat to retire, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Tevez has threatened to quit soccer if City doesn’t grant
him a transfer next month, for family reasons, either to his
native Argentina or to Spain, the Mirror said.  City won’t cave into the striker’s demands and is testing
the validity of a breach of contract lawsuit, the Mirror said.
Tevez has 3 ½ years left on his current contract and City would
lose about 50 million pounds from any sale, the Mirror said.  City manager  Roberto Mancini  will strip Tevez of the
captaincy and force him to train with the club’s reserves, the
 Sun reported . Real Madrid will not make a move for Tevez as it
doesn’t have the money to commit to a huge transfer fee or to
match Tevez’s salary at City, the  Guardian  said.  Big Payoff?  Sam Allardyce  may be in line for a 1.5 million-pound payoff
after being fired as Blackburn manager, the  Mirror said .  Allardyce was sacked yesterday by the club’s new owners and
is expecting to get the rest of his contract paid, the Mirror
said. He’s due about 1 million pounds for the remainder of this
season, and will also pick up a bonus of 500,000 pounds if
Rovers avoid relegation. Blackburn is five points above the
relegation zone.  Race for Robbie  Stoke manager  Tony Pulis  has entered the race to sign
Tottenham’s  Robbie Kean  and also wants to add Birmingham
midfielder  Sebastian Larsson , the  Daily Mail  said.  Aston Villa is the leader to land the 30-year-old Keane,
which has also been linked to Blackburn, West Ham and
Wolverhampton, the Mail said. Stoke is considering a 2 million-
pound move for Larsson, the newspaper said.  No Backlash  Newcastle midfielder  Joey Barton  said the team has no
hostility toward new manager  Alan Pardew , the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  Newcastle players were upset by the firing of Chris Hughton
last week and Barton dedicated his man of the match honor from
the 3-1 win over Liverpool three days ago to his former boss.
Barton says the team spirit at the club is too strong to allow
Pardew’s arrival to disrupt the squad, the Telegraph said.  Baines Bid  Everton defender Leyton Baines has emerged as Bayern
Munich’s top target in the January transfer period, the  Daily
Mail  said.  Bayern managing director  Karl-Heinz Rummenigge  said the
club wants to sign a left back next month. Everton will demand
at least double the 5 million pounds it paid Wigan for Baines 3
½ years ago and Rummenigge hinted Bayern are prepared to pay the
going rate for the right player, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 