-- Anglo American Starts Zimbabwean Platinum Mine as Ownership Rules in Flux
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-12-14T14:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/anglo-american-starts-zimbabwean-platinum-mine-as-ownership-rules-in-flux.html
Anglo American Plc , the U.K. company
controlling the world’s largest platinum producer, started up
its Unki mine in Zimbabwe as years of debate in the country over
foreign ownership of mining businesses left regulations in flux.  “ Unki  has been technically commissioned and will ramp up
production during next year,” London-based Anglo said in an e-
mailed response to questions. The mine is expected to achieve
full output of 65,000 ounces of refined platinum a year in the
fourth quarter of 2013, according to the company.  Unki has been in development since 2003, about the same
period that foreign ownership rights have been debated in
Zimbabwe. Saviour Kasukuwere, the indigenization minister and a
member of President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front, last week said foreign companies must
cede 51 percent of their domestic operations to black locals.  Anglo declined to comment on the statement. Zimbabwe has
the second-biggest platinum reserves after neighboring South
Africa. Mugabe, who rules the country in a coalition government
with the Movement for Democratic Change’s  Morgan Tsvangirai , has
called for an election next year, possibly in June.  Anglo , owner of about 79 percent of  Anglo Platinum Ltd. ,
said in 2008 the state would take control of Unki if the company
stopped developing the site. The project would cost 2.9 billion
rand ($425 million), it said the following year.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. , the second-largest producer,
said in May it would go ahead with a $500 million expansion even
as talks with the government on ownership rules were unresolved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 