-- Lanxess Agrees to Buy DSM Elastomers for $415 Million, Adding Keltan Brand
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2010-12-14T08:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/lanxess-agrees-to-buy-dsm-elastomers-for-415-million-adding-keltan-brand.html
Lanxess AG  agreed to buy an
elastomers business from  Royal DSM NV  for 310 million euros
($415 million), adding technology to lower production costs of
the material used in cars, cables and construction.  The cash purchase of DSM Elastomers, on a debt-free basis,
will add about 380 million euros to Lanxess’s sales, the
Leverkusen, Germany-based company said in a statement. The unit
produces the synthetic rubber ethylene propylene diene monomer,
used for products such as door seals and windshield wipers.  Lanxess said it stands to gain technology that could cut
the energy and production costs of its existing plants, while
gaining facilities in Brazil and the Netherlands that will more
than double its  EPDM output . Growth in the global market for the
synthetic rubber will be driven by demand in China and Brazil,
the company said.  “The attractiveness of DSM’s assets mainly relates to
DSM’s proprietary ACE technology, which results in lower energy
costs, improved physical properties and higher temperature
resistance,”  Jan Hein de Vroe , an analyst at ING, said in a
note to clients today.  The German supplier of materials to tiremaker Bridgestone
Corp., which expects to close the DSM deal in early 2011, added
0.8 percent to 56 euros as of 9:03 a.m. local time. The stock is
rated “buy” at DZ Bank, with a fair value at 59 euros.  Lanxess paid a multiple based on earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization of six times. Yule Catto &
Co. yesterday agreed to pay 8.1 times underlying Ebitda for a
latex maker, while the median bid multiple for similar deals
struck this year is about 9.1 times Ebitda, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The transaction is a “good strategic fit” and comes at a
“fair price,” DZ Bank analyst  Peter Spengler  wrote in a note.  For DSM, the transaction marks the end of a 1.2 billion-
euro disposal process as Chief Executive Officer  Feike Sijbesma 
focuses the business on biotechnology and specialist plastics.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  