-- Apple Expands Ad Network to IPad With `Tron' Promo
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-12-14T21:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/apple-expands-advertising-network-to-ipad-with-promotion-for-tron-sequel.html
Apple Inc. , which introduced a
mobile-advertising network in July, is expanding the system to
the iPad with a new campaign to promote the  Walt Disney Co. 
movie “Tron: Legacy.”  The ad, which will be featured inside some applications,
will serve as a preview of a broader rollout of the advertising
network on the iPad next year, the Cupertino, California-based
company said today.  “Disney and Apple are excited to debut the ‘Tron Legacy’
iAd today as a special preview of iAd for iPad,” said  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Apple.  Apple is capitalizing on the success of the iPad, the best-
selling tablet device, to step up competition with  Google Inc. 
in mobile advertising. Informa Telecoms & Media, a London-based
consulting firm, expects revenue from such ads to grow about 10-
fold to $24.1 billion globally by 2015. Apple and Google have
each acquired mobile-advertising businesses in the past year to
tap the market.  Apple’s iAd network was first introduced in  July  for the
iPhone and iPod Touch media player. Companies using the platform
include Nissan Motor Co., Unilever NV, JC Penney Co., Best Buy
Co., AT&T Inc. and Geico. The promotion for “Tron,” the sequel
to  a 1982 film  about a man trapped inside a computer, includes
videos and other features about the movie.  Apple fell $1.38 to $320.29 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . Disney climbed 11 cents to $37.24
on the New York Stock Exchange.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  is Disney’s
biggest shareholder and a member of the Burbank, California-
based company’s board.  Advertising Age previously reported on the “Tron”
advertising campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  