-- Marines to Delay Combat-Readiness Target for F-35 Jet
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-12-14T21:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/marine-corps-to-extend-combat-ready-schedule-for-lockheed-s-f-35.html
The U.S. Marine Corps will scrap a
December 2012 target to have its version of the  Lockheed Martin
Corp.  F-35 Joint Strike Fighter ready for combat and isn’t
setting a new date, the service’s commandant said.  “I’m really not wringing my hands over that,” General
 James Amos  told reporters today at the Pentagon. “It will be
when it will be.”  The decision means the Marines join the Air Force and Navy
in pulling back on their combat-readiness goals for the biggest
Pentagon  weapons project . The Marine Corps had  maintained  its
schedule, even with new delays on the JSF, when the Air Force
and Navy reset their timetables this year to 2016.  Reaching the Marines’ so-called initial combat capability,
a squadron of 10 jets and fully trained crew, is a benchmark of
progress in the $382 billion F-35 program. Other steps include
finishing development and combat tests; a smooth transition to
full production; and an efficient manufacturing process.  “I had hoped that it would be farther along” in the
flight-test program, Amos said. “This is a complicated
airplane. We are going to work ourselves through the issues.”  The Marine version of the JSF is designed for  short
takeoffs and vertical landings , while the Air Force model is
intended to fly from conventional runways and the Navy variant
is built for carrier operations. Amos said engineers are working
through “mechanical issues” with the propulsion system.  ‘Engineering Solutions’  “I’m told we have engineering solutions to these fixes,”
Amos said. “We have to prove to folks that those are fixable --
that it can be done.”  Lockheed  gained $1.40, or 2 percent, to $70.02 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares of the
Bethesda, Maryland-based company have declined 7.1 percent  this
year .  Most parts of the JSF program are running about four years
behind most of its initial schedule, and the estimated basic
cost for one aircraft has surged about 84 percent, to $92
million in 2002 dollars from $50 million.  The Air Force has changed its first-unit combat date to
April 2016 from a target of June 2011, and the Navy date also
slipped to April 2016 from April 2012.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said in a Dec. 3 meeting he
would recommend giving the Marines as much as two more years to
develop the short-takeoff/vertical-landing model and overcome
technical and manufacturing snags, according to two defense
officials asked not to be identified.  “I had an opportunity to sit down and tell him about the
importance” of the Marines Corps’ version of the plane, Amos
said. “To the best of my knowledge, it was received very
positively.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  