-- Asia Stocks to Gain as Much as 30% in 2011 on Stimulus, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-12-14T01:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/asia-stocks-to-gain-as-much-as-30-in-2011-on-stimulus-deutsche-bank-says.html
Asian stocks  will next year offer
“substantial” returns given the outlook for a recovery in the
global economy and earnings growth, and as the U.S. takes steps
to stimulate growth, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  The shares may rise 20 percent to 30 percent next year,
Deutsche Bank strategists led by  Ajay Kapur  said in a report
dated yesterday. They upgraded China to “market weight” from
“underweight” and raised Thailand to “overweight” from
“market weight.” The analysts cut Malaysia to “market
weight” from “overweight.”  The U.S. central bank is meeting today after announcing
last month a second round of debt buying through June under a
policy known as quantitative easing to spur job growth and avoid
deflation. Federal Reserve policy makers may signal that they
are open to boosting debt purchases beyond the amount already
announced.  “Don’t fight the Fed,” the Deutsche Bank strategists
wrote. “The economic cycle is inflecting up.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  rose 0.4
percent to 470.64 as of 9:38 a.m. in Shanghai, extending its
gains for the year to 13 percent.  The Deutsche strategists recommended cyclical industries in
Asia including auto, retail, capital goods and transport, while
saying investors should “underweight” technology hardware,
utilities and food and beverage companies.  The U.S., Japanese and European central banks are relying
on asset purchases to revive demand and are keeping their
interest rates close to record lows.  ‘Certainly Possible’  Buying more government bonds is “certainly possible,” Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an interview broadcast on CBS
Corp.’s “60 Minutes” on Dec. 5. “It depends on the efficacy
of the program” and the outlook for inflation and the economy,
Bernanke said.  Some signs point to a U.S. recovery gaining steam, even
though unemployment has remained at 9.4 percent or higher since
May 2009. Sales at U.S. retailers jumped in November by the most
in eight months, manufacturing expanded for a 16th consecutive
month and consumer confidence increased in December to a six-
month high.  The strategists said the risk to their view include the
possibility “runaway” Chinese inflation could spur a
“severe” monetary crackdown. China is tightening lending to
cool inflation that accelerated to 5.1 percent in November, the
fastest pace in 28 months.  The  benchmark Shanghai Composite Index  rose by the most in
two months yesterday after the central bank refrained from
increasing interest rates and government reports showed the
economy is withstanding tightening policies. The government is
seeking to shift from dependence on investment in industry and
exports to bolstering private consumption and service industries,
a move that could also aid the world economy.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  