-- Bailouts Test Limits of Taxpayer Tolerance: Karl Heinz Daeke
-- B y   K a r l   H e i n z   D a e k e
-- 2010-12-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/bailouts-test-limits-of-taxpayer-tolerance-commentary-by-karl-heinz-daeke.html
These are testing times for
European taxpayers, especially German ones.  The European stabilization package, worth as much as 750
billion euros, already meant a huge burden on ordinary people
when it was set up in May 2010. But at that time we were
still told that such a protective shield would suffice to
fend off speculators around the world.  It hasn’t worked. A few weeks ago, European leaders
agreed to grant Greece much more time to pay back its
emergency loans. And on Nov. 21, a pressured Irish government
decided to tap the stabilization package. For German
taxpayers, that must have felt like a “black Sunday.” Other
nations are about to follow the Greek and Irish examples. So
it comes as no surprise that there has been talk of enlarging
the stabilization package, possibly to an unlimited amount.  What does that mean for Germany? We are on the brink of
a transfer union, where huge amounts of money are channeled
from richer to poorer countries. And Ireland isn’t even
poorer than Germany. According to the International Monetary
Fund, Ireland’s gross domestic product per capita is about
35,000 euros ($47,000), higher than Germany’s 31,000 euros.
Taking purchasing power into account doesn’t change anything.  Biggest Guarantor  Nevertheless, a  62.7 billion-euro  aid package for
Ireland was set up, of which Germany is the single biggest
guarantor. The IMF contributes 22.5 billion euros, of which
Germany provides about 1.3 billion euros. The European
Financial Stabilization Mechanism pledges 22.5 billion euros
-- the German share is about 5 billion euros. The European
Financial Stability Facility provides 17.7 billion euros, of
which Germany gives about 6.2 billion euros.  So, German taxpayers will guarantee the repayment of
about 12.5 billion euros lent to Ireland.  The question, therefore, is whether Ireland will ever be
in a position to fully repay these loans. The aid package of
62.7 billion euros amounts to a staggering 40 percent of
 Irish GDP . It is true that the Irish government has already
taken substantial measures to curb the budget deficit. The
reductions in public-service salaries of as much as 15
percent are impressive examples of such austerity. But that
alone certainly won’t do the job.  Unsustainable Boom  The Irish problem is mainly bloated banking and
construction industries. Here, a painful downsizing and
realignment is necessary. The Irish boom -- especially in
real estate -- was unsustainable. Prices probably need to
come down further. The losses inflicted by that must not be
put on shoulders of taxpayers.  Ever since the financial crisis began, German taxpayers
have urged the government not to let lenders off the hook.
During the boom, we saw huge profits in private industry,
welcomed and fostered by governments. More and more people
thought they could get rich by selling each other real estate.
German taxpayers weren’t part of that game, so they shouldn’t
have to bear the brunt of bad investments. Private losses
shouldn’t be socialized.  When the discussions on assistance to Ireland started,
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  explicitly demanded a
contribution from private lenders. So it was an immense
disappointment for German taxpayers that the government
didn’t succeed in that direction during negotiations on the
aid package. What finally was presented was an agreement on
the backs of taxpayers while banks, insurance companies and
investment funds got off lightly.  Bond ‘Haircuts’  German taxpayers won’t tolerate that. Private lenders
must make contributions that range from lower interest rates
and later maturities to accepting “haircuts” -- losses from
their holdings of government bonds. It isn’t the duty of
taxpayers to protect financial institutions from write-offs.  If the “Irish problem” endangers German banks or
insurance companies -- when asked individually, they deny it
-- then the German government can act accordingly. But market
principles, which are at the root of our well-being, need to
be re-established. Whoever takes potentially enriching risks
should also be required to bear the losses.  The protective shield hasn’t contained the sovereign-
debt crisis, which is likely to spread to other countries. So
Germany runs the risk of becoming the lender nation of last
resort. Who will finally bail out Germany? The European
Central Bank? Its policy of buying Greek and Irish bonds is
already alarming. So far, German taxpayers have only seen
costly compromises on aid-package deals.  When  Jean-Claude Trichet  steps down as ECB president
next year, the appointment of a German candidate as his
successor would be good news. That would give some
reassurance to taxpayers that the debt crisis won’t be
“solved” by massive inflation.  Anything else will only test the tolerance of German
taxpayers.  ( Karl Heinz Daeke  is president of the German Taxpayers
Association in Berlin. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Karl Heinz Daeke at  presse@steuerzahler.de   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  