-- Bank Breakup Is Only Way to Fix Pay Conspiracy: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-12-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/bank-breakup-is-only-way-to-fix-pay-conspiracy-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Take one more longing look at
that new Ferrari, and one more peek at that brochure for
townhouses in Mayfair or chateaus in Provence. Europe’s
bankers should enjoy the bonus season. It may be the last.  Last week, the Committee of European Banking Supervisors
announced a clampdown on bonuses. Bankers will be limited in
the amount of cash they can receive. The bulk of their
bonuses will be paid in shares. There will be clawbacks if
the bank goes down the tubes.  The days when a job in finance was a way of getting rich
quick and easy are finally over.  The trouble is, the committee may well have damaged the
big names of Europe’s banking industry, such as Barclays Plc
and Deutsche Bank AG. It has imposed far harsher rules than
are likely to be applied elsewhere in the world.  Instead, it should have overhauled the whole system --
rather than trying to micro-regulate banks that are no longer
working the way they should.  No one would deny that some review of the bonus culture
was needed. Financial-industry pay has become a conspiracy
against the public -- and one that needed to be changed.  Traders take big bets with other people’s money. If they
win, they collect a fortune. If they lose, they go and get
another job and try again. Even some of the industry’s
leaders have realized there isn’t much fairness.  ‘That’s Imbalance’  “You can put on a large trade, and if it works, you
make out like a bandit, and if it doesn’t, you might get
fired, but you’re not paying back,”  James Gorman , the chief
executive officer of Morgan Stanley, said at a conference
last month. “So you have asymmetric risk: You either come
out zero or you come out positive. That’s imbalance.”  It won’t change by itself. There is little evidence the
banking industry has fixed the way it operates since the
credit crunch. One U.S. study found things have worsened.
According to a report commissioned by the Council of
Institutional Investors, there is less of a link now between
bankers’ pay and long-term performance than ever before.  Taxpayers, who now stand behind all the main banks,
won’t stand for it much longer. Something needs to change.  In fairness, the  Committee of European Banking
Supervisors  has made a decent stab at altering the system.
The new rules limit bankers to receiving about a quarter of
their bonuses in immediate cash payouts, while the rest must
be deferred or held in shares for a minimum of three years.  Repaid Bonuses  There will also be a link between fixed pay and bonuses,
as well as a mechanism for making senior managers repay their
bonuses if excessive risk-taking is later found to have
caused financial problems at a bank. National regulators in
the European Union will have to implement the new regulations.  It will make a difference. Big cash payouts at the end
of the year were what caused much of the wild, dangerous
trading within the banking system. The dice were always
loaded in favor of taking that big bet on yak-hide futures.
If your bonus was paid in shares in your bank, you’d be a lot
more worried about its long-term prospects -- and a lot less
willing to risk it on one big bet.  But there are two reasons why the rules won’t work.  First, it will be very hard for European banks to
compete with the rest of the world. Asian and U.S. lenders
won’t have the same kind of restrictions, though Wall Street
pay will drop as much as 28 percent this year, according to
New York-based consulting firm Options Group.  Europe’s Dunderheads  In any case, the best traders -- those who get the calls
right -- may well head for Asia or New York. Europe will be
left with the dunderheads. Is that what the EU intended?  Second, micro-regulations are tough to enforce. If you
are going to try and get bonuses back from executives, how
exactly do you prove that the risks taken were excessive
rather than just the kind of transactions that banks do every
day? In reality, the lawyers will have a field day. And very
little money will get repaid.  Regulators should have been improving the structure of
the banking system, rather than trying to fiddle with how
banks pay their staff.  The only solution to the bonus issue is to split the
banks into their retail and investment-banking divisions --
and then make the investment bankers operate as partnerships.  Taxpayer Deal  The retail banks can take in customer deposits, run
payment systems, and make loans to individuals and businesses
with collateral. These lenders can be protected by taxpayers
from collapse. In return, the banks are run in a safe way.  The investment banks can raise their own cash from
clients, and they can do what they like with it. That way,
the traders are taking risks with their own money, or the
funds of people who have invested willingly. If they do well,
it’s great for them. If they go bust, it doesn’t matter to
anyone else. There wouldn’t be any need to regulate them
because it wouldn’t matter what their fate was.  That would create a banking industry that was innovative
and creative -- and yet not a danger to the economy.  Everything else is just fiddling with a flawed system.  ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist and the
author of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt
crisis. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  