-- Beazley Withdraws Sweetened $287 Million Bid to Acquire Hardy Underwriting
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-12-14T10:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/beazley-abandons-offer-to-buy-hardy-underwriting-after-insurer-spurned-bid.html
Beazley Plc  ended talks to buy  Hardy
Underwriting Bermuda Ltd.  after the smallest publicly traded
Lloyd’s of London insurer spurned a third, sweetened bid of
about 181 million pounds ($287 million).  Hardy requested a price “substantially in excess” of the
350 pence a share Beazley offered on Dec. 1, the Dublin-based
company said in a statement today. The fifth-biggest Lloyd’s
insurer originally offered 300 pence a share in October, before
raising its bid to 330 pence, or 171 million pounds, last month.  “I’m surprised, because the price is a good premium to
where the share price was at 220 pence before we approached,”
Beazley Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Horton  said in a
telephone interview. His company will now concentrate on
expanding its operations in the U.S. and Europe while
considering smaller “bolt on” acquisitions, he said.  Falling premium rates, rising regulatory costs and
declining investment returns will put pressure on insurers’
earnings next year, making smaller firms vulnerable to
takeovers, according to  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  analyst
 Joanna Parsons . Fellow Lloyd’s insurer  Brit Insurance Holdings
NV  agreed to be sold to Apollo Global Management and CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. for 888 million pounds in October. Hardy last
month announced a stock buyback after spurning Beazley.  “In the near to medium term, we expect management will
come under pressure to deliver quickly on their growth
strategy,” Joy Ferneyhough, a London-based analyst at Execution
Noble Ltd., said of Hardy in a note to clients today.  Hardy Shares Tumble  Hardy fell as much as 11 percent in London trading and was
down 4.3 percent at 270 pence as of 10:09 a.m. Beazley advanced
0.6 percent to 114.5 pence.  Beazley’s third offer valued Hardy at 1.35 times the
company’s book value in the first-half and offered a 30 percent
premium to the rest of the sector, Ferneyhough said. CVC and
Apollo paid about book value for Brit Insurance.  Beazley had about $196 million of excess cash at the middle
of 2010, a figure that is likely to have increased in the
second-half, Horton said. Beazley will consider using as much as
$50 million of that money to fund a share buyback next year, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  