-- Beijing Proposes Road Fees, Public Bicycles to Ease World's Worst Traffic
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-14T05:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/beijing-proposes-congestion-tolls-bicycles-to-ease-world-s-worst-traffic.html
The city of  Beijing , ranked as
having the world’s worst traffic, has proposed offering public
bicycles, building tunnels and possibly imposing fees for
driving in parts of the Chinese capital to ease congested roads.  Other proposals that Beijing’s municipal government posted
 online  for reducing traffic include limits on the number of
government cars in the city and construction of additional
subway lines. The proposals were posted yesterday to the city
transportation department’s website so that local residents
could submit comments.  Tax cuts and subsidies offered by the government to spur
automobile sales have fueled a surge in both the number of
drivers and traffic on roads as China passed the U.S. last year
to become the world’s biggest car market. Authorities are
looking to allay concerns among residents after an  International
Business Machine Corp.  report ranked traffic in Beijing as being
tied with Mexico City as the world’s worst.  “The measures will raise the cost of using a car instead
of the cost of buying one,” said Jenny Gu, a Shanghai-based
analyst at auto industry researcher  J.D. Power & Associates.  “
People who really want a car will not give it up.”  Sales of passenger cars to dealers in November increased
29.3 percent from a year earlier to a monthly record of 1.34
million units, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers
said last week. Stimulus measures helped China’s industry wide
vehicle sales jump 46 percent last year to 13.6 million units.  Beijing Drivers  In Beijing, more than 20,000 vehicles were sold in the
first week of December, more than double the 9,000 vehicles sold
during the same period of a 2009, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported. The Chinese capital had more than 4.7 million
registered cars and more than 6.2 million licensed drivers as of
Dec. 5, according to the city government.  A global poll of 8,192 motorists conducted by IBM this
April and May, ranked Beijing as the most “onerous” commute in
the world, when factors such as traffic predictability, gasoline
prices and emotional stress were included. Beijing was also tied
with Moscow as being the city with the most road trips canceled
due to anticipated traffic jams.  To alleviate the congestion, Beijing’s municipal government
already bars cars from the city roads on specific days each
month depending on the last digit of the license. The city is
also aiming to have public transportation account for 50 percent
of commutes in the city by 2015 and may offer 50,000 public
bicycles to commuters at 1,000 stations around the city,
according to the proposals posted yesterday.  Shanghai , China’s wealthiest city, has since 1986
controlled the number of vehicles on its roads by restricting
car licenses. The city sells a limited number of licenses each
month at auction. Shanghai auctioned 8,500 car licenses on Nov.
20 at an average price of 45,291 yuan each ($6,807), according
to government data.  -- Liza Lin ,  Michael Wei . Editors:  John Liu ,  Kae Inoue   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3047 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net 
Michael Wei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7717 or
 Mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  