-- Belgian Government Bonds Fall as Credit Outlook Is Cut to Negative at S&P
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-14T12:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/belgian-government-bonds-fall-as-credit-outlook-is-cut-to-negative-at-s-p.html
Belgian government bonds fell as the
nation’s political stalemate prompted Standard & Poor’s to cut
the outlook on its AA+ credit rating, as contagion from Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis threatens to infect more nations.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold 10-
year Belgian bonds instead of benchmark German securities
widened after S&P lowered the outlook to negative from stable.
Belgium’s “prolonged domestic political uncertainty poses risks
to its government’s credit standing, especially given the
difficult market conditions many euro-zone governments are
facing,” analysts including  Marko Mrsnik , a Madrid-based
analyst at the rating company, said in a note today.  The yield on Belgian 10-year bonds rose four basis points
to 4.03 percent at 11:48 a.m. in London. That sent the yield
spread with German bunds five basis points wider to 105 basis
points, the most in a week.  “It’s a demonstration of contagion from the periphery” of
the euro zone, said  Ioannis Sokos , an interest-rate strategist
at BNP Paribas SA in London. “There was not a previous hint of
this. It’s a surprise,” he said, though “we have seen the
movement already in spreads.”  In Belgium, seven political parties involved in coalition
talks are sparring over whether to grant more fiscal autonomy
for the country’s regions after inconclusive elections in June
left it without a government. The public debt of Belgium, whose
Flemish- and French-speaking parties are at odds, is approaching
100 percent of gross domestic product and 65 billion euros ($87
billion) of bonds and bills are due to mature next year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  