-- Belgium Has S&P Outlook on Debt Cut to `Negative' Amid Political Stalemate
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2010-12-14T16:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/belgian-government-bonds-decline-as-rating-outlook-cut-to-negative-at-s-p.html
Belgium had the outlook on its debt
rating lowered to “negative” from “stable” at Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services because the country’s political
stalemate makes it vulnerable to rising borrowing costs.  S&P may cut Belgium’s AA+ sovereign credit rating by one
step within the next six months should the seven parties
involved in coalition talks fail to form a government “soon,”
the credit agency said today in a statement. It may also cut the
rating within two years should the next government fail to
stabilize  public debt  and improve political cohesion.  “Belgium’s current caretaker government may be ill-
equipped to respond to shocks to public finances,”  Marko Mrsnik , a credit analyst at S&P in Madrid, said in the
statement. “The federal government’s projected 2011 gross
borrowing requirement of around 11 percent of GDP leaves it
exposed to rising real interest rates.”  Belgium has increasingly been compared with so-called
peripheral nations such as Greece, Ireland and Spain as the
leadership vacuum constrains efforts to cope with Europe’s
third-biggest debt as a percentage of gross domestic product.
The nation continues to operate under a caretaker administration
six months after inconclusive elections as Flemish and French-
speaking parties are still sparring over whether to grant more
fiscal autonomy for the country’s regions.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold Belgian 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds increased as much as 8
basis points to 108 and was at 101 basis points at 5:11 p.m. in
Brussels. The spread, a measure of the risk of investing in
Belgium, widened to 139 basis points on Nov. 30, the most in at
least 17 years.  National Bank of Belgium Governor  Guy Quaden  on Dec. 6
called for the formation “in the coming weeks” of a “stable”
and “lasting” federal government that should present a
detailed plan outlining Belgium’s efforts to balance its budget
by the end of 2015, as agreed with the European Commission. The
budget deficit will narrow to 4.7 percent of GDP next year from
4.8 percent in 2010, according to the central bank’s
projections.  “Belgium should learn to accept that it is on the markets’
radar screen and stop hiding behind the German economy’s
locomotive,”  Ivan Van de Cloot , chief economist at Itinera
Institute, a non-partisan think tank focusing on Belgian policy
reform, said in a telephone interview from Brussels. “It’s not
as if Belgium has suddenly fallen off a cliff: it’s been
suffering from internal bleeding that continues to weaken the
country.”  The next federal government will need to rein in health-
care spending, cut the number of civil servants, prepare a
pension reform and improve tax-revenue collection, the
International Monetary Fund said in a report published
yesterday. Any unforeseen additional revenue should be used to
cut government debt, the Washington-based IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  