-- Berlusconi Survives Government Confidence Vote as Students Protest in Rome
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-12-14T18:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/berlusconi-government-survives-confidence-votes-in-italian-senate-house.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  survived a confidence vote as student protesters
clashed with police, leaving clouds of tear gas and smoke from
burning cars wafting over Rome.  Berlusconi, 74, won the motion in the Chamber of Deputies
by 314 to 311 today, short of an absolute majority, Speaker
 Gianfranco Fini  said. Fini’s defection from Berlusconi’s People
of Liberty party and his call for the premier to quit prompted
today’s vote. Berlusconi also carried the Senate and shares of
his  Mediaset SpA  rose to their highest in more than three weeks.  Berlusconi called on defecting lawmakers to return to his
fold, saying that the country couldn’t afford political upheaval
as Europe’s debt crisis boosts borrowing costs. Without a
working majority in the 630-seat lower house, Berlusconi may
call early elections, which polls show he would win against a
divided opposition.  “He bought some time,” said  Roberto D’Alimonte , professor
of politics at Luiss University in Rome. “He is still in
control. He is still the master. He can choose what suits him
best” -- either bringing defectors into his coalition, allying
with the centrist UDC party or seeking early elections, he said.  ‘It’s quite predictable that some lawmakers, having seen
that the attempt to provoke a government crisis has failed, may
decide to reenter within the People of Freedom or the government
majority,” Berlusconi said in Rome after meeting with President
 Giorgio Napolitano  at his hilltop  Quirinale Palace . He said he’s
certain he would win any early election.  Set Ablaze  During the voting, authorities blocked access to central
Rome as police battled protesters opposed to proposed spending
cuts.  The demonstrators hurled bottles and smoke bombs and dumped
manure in the street outside Berlusconi’s residence and the
Senate before charging barricades. They moved to Piazza del
Popolo after the vote, where garbage and police trucks were
overturned and set ablaze as firecrackers exploded. Police fired
tear gas to disperse the crowds.  More than 40 protesters, including a French citizen, were
arrested, the police said in an e-mailed statement. During the
riots six police vehicles were damaged and 57 policemen were
hurt by protesters, “many of whom wore helmets and carried
shields,” the police added. A spokesman for the emergency
services said that 40 protesters were slightly injured.  Voting Scuffle  Inside the  Chamber of Deputies , Fini was forced to
temporarily suspend the vote after a scuffle broke out between
lawmakers during the balloting.  Prior to the vote, opposition leaders called on prosecutors
to investigate Berlusconi for vote buying -- charges he denied.
 Three pregnant lawmakers , including one who was due to give
birth yesterday and arrived by ambulance, managed to cast their
votes against Berlusconi. In the end, three of Fini’s lawmakers
switched back to Berlusconi and a fourth abstained, giving the
victory to the three-time prime minister who has led the
government in eight of the past 10 years.  “The country is the big loser because with just 314 votes
you can’t govern and the vote doesn’t resolve the political
problems on the center-right,” said  Massimo D’Alema , a former
prime minister and a lawmaker from the opposition Democratic
Party. “All the problems remain and will get worse.”  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over similar-maturing German bunds narrowed after the vote
and was little changed at 158.7 basis points at 6 p.m. It more
than doubled this year and surged to a euro-era record of 212
basis points on Nov. 30.  Mediaset Gains  Mediaset , the Milan-based media company that helped
Berlusconi become one of the world’s richest men with a fortune
of $9 billion, erased early losses and gained as much as 5
percent. The stock gained 3.3 percent to 4.64 euros.  Italy has weathered the debt crisis better than Spain,
Portugal and Ireland, maintaining the lowest risk premium of the
four. Standard & Poor’s, in reaffirming Italy’s A+ credit rating
on Nov. 2, said political instability was one of the biggest
risks to the country’s creditworthiness. Today’s vote doesn’t
end the threat,  Fabio Fois , an economist at Barclays Capital in
London, said in a note to investors.  “Despite having won the vote, political instability is
likely to remain in Italy,” Fois wrote. “Should moderates
belonging to Fini’s party not seek involvement in the political
activity of the government, Berlusconi will continue to suffer
from not having a stable majority.”  Fini Loses  The rift with Fini and renewed allegations of sexual
impropriety left Berlusconi’s popularity at the lowest since his
2008 elections, polls indicated.  Still, Fini, who co-founded the ruling party with
Berlusconi and an ally since Berlusconi entered politics in
1994, may be the biggest loser. He split with the premier after
criticizing him for stifling internal debate and passing laws to
favor his personal interest. The two partially reconciled in
September, when Fini and about three dozen of his supporters
backed Berlusconi in a confidence vote.  Berlusconi’s latest sex-related scandal further strained
relations, and Fini called for Berlusconi to resign on Nov. 7,
leading to today’s confidence votes. Berlusconi’s popularity
dipped after he admitted phoning Milan police to inquire about a
17-year-old nightclub dancer in their custody. The woman, who
danced under the stage name of “Ruby heart stealer,” had
attended a party at Berlusconi’s Rome mansion and was released
by police into the custody of the premier’s former dental
hygienist, now a local politician for Berlusconi’s party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at   abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  