-- Bernanke Policy Options May Be Limited Amid Republican Scrutiny
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-12-14T13:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/bernanke-stimulus-options-may-be-limited-as-fed-faces-republican-scrutiny.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may find his options for reducing unemployment near a
26-year high are constrained after Republicans take control of
the House of Representatives next month.  Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, who has advocated
abolishing the Fed, will head the committee that oversees it.
Representative  Darrell Issa  of California, who will chair the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, has said he
wants the central bank to be more accountable to the public.  Republicans are gaining clout over the Fed months before
policy makers start weighing whether to expand $600 billion of
asset purchases to boost the economy -- a program that has
aroused the harshest political backlash in three decades. Fed
officials meeting today in Washington for the last time this
year are likely to make no change to the stimulus, according to
38 of 39 analysts in a Bloomberg survey Dec. 7-8.  “They’re clearly not immune from politics,” said former
Atlanta Fed research director  Robert Eisenbeis , chief monetary
economist at Cumberland Advisors Inc. in Sarasota, Florida.
Political pressure will “absolutely” make it more difficult
for the Fed to ease further.  “When you’re hemmed in and you’ve found yourself in a
hole, stop digging,” he said.  By March or April, central bankers will be moving toward a
conclusion about how effective their policy has been and will
consider whether to expand their stimulus. Bernanke, in an
interview broadcast Dec. 5, told CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” that
the recovery may not be self-sustaining and more purchases of
debt beyond the $600 billion approved by the Fed through June
are “certainly possible.”  Internal Skeptics  Criticism from Congress strengthens the hand of internal
skeptics, including Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and
 Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia, who next month will gain votes
on the policy making Federal Open Market Committee, said  Vincent Reinhart , a resident scholar at the American Enterprise
Institute in Washington.  “Politics matter,” Reinhart, who directed the Fed’s
Monetary Affairs Division from 2001 to 2007, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s external criticism and that does empower
the internal opposition.”  Michelle Smith , a spokeswoman for the Fed in Washington,
declined to comment.  Republican lawmakers have proposed stripping the Fed of its
mandate to achieve maximum employment, so it would focus only on
inflation. Issa intends to consider whether the five-year lag
for release of Fed meeting minutes should be shortened, and Paul
said in a Bloomberg Television interview last week that while he
won’t “right up front” push for an end to the Fed, “obviously
that’s the implication.”  Communications Review  Responding to criticism, Bernanke, 57, initiated the
broadest review of Fed communications in three years, appointing
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  to head a subcommittee to ensure the
public is “well informed about monetary policy issues,”
according to the minutes of the FOMC’s November meeting.  In a meeting with Issa on Dec. 9, Bernanke pledged to
“work cooperatively” to make the Fed more transparent to the
public, said  Kurt Bardella , Issa’s spokesman.  The pressure to curtail monetary stimulus has mounted since
Republicans in the mid-term election last month won control of
the House.  John Boehner  of Ohio, the prospective House speaker,
and three other top Republicans in Congress expressed “deep
concerns” about the asset purchases, also known as quantitative
easing, in a Nov. 17 letter to Bernanke. The program may create
asset-price bubbles and weaken the dollar, they said.  Treasury Yields  So far, quantitative easing has shown mixed signs of
meeting the goals of reducing  interest rates  and spurring
growth. Since the announced the program on Nov. 3, the yield on
the benchmark 10-year Treasury note has climbed to 3.28 percent
from 2.57 percent.  “It’s a strategy which fights against itself,” said
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut. “The point of doing this was to get
rates lower, and if you do something that is viewed as helping
the economy or raising inflation expectations, that would
presumably logically be pushing rates higher at the margin.”  Inflation expectations for the next five years, as measured
by the breakeven rate between nominal and inflation-indexed
bonds, rose to 1.61 percent yesterday from 1.44 percent on Nov.
3. IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which measures
the currency’s performance against six trading partners, has
climbed 3.7 percent, confounding critics who said asset
purchases would weaken the currency.  Higher Prices  Paul expressed concern last week that the central bank
won’t be able to avert an acceleration of inflation. He also
said he plans to “push for debating” whether the Fed should
focus solely on policies that promote price stability.  The Fed, created by Congress in 1913, operates as an
independent, non-partisan institution. The political backlash is
“very problematic” because it damages confidence in monetary
policy and injects concerns Congress will impose “crazy
restrictions” on the central bank, said  Mark Gertler , a
professor of economics at New York University.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists led by  Jan Hatzius  said
in a Nov. 19 report that the Fed was unlikely to complete the
New York-based firm’s earlier estimate of $2 trillion in asset
purchases in part because the political “backlash probably does
increase the hurdle for additional purchases.”  Aftershocks from the worst recession since the Great
Depression, including an unemployment  rate  stuck at 9.4 percent
or higher since May 2009, have intensified hostility toward the
Fed, said Gertler, who has conducted research with Bernanke on
how financial crises can worsen downturns.  ‘Partisan Politics’  “What’s different now is how long the economic turmoil has
been prolonged, and that makes it difficult for anyone to
operate above partisan politics,” Gertler said.  A majority of Americans are dissatisfied with the U.S.
central bank, saying the Fed should either be brought under
tighter political control or abolished outright, according to a
Bloomberg National Poll conducted Dec. 4-7.  An agreement to extend Bush-era tax cuts for two years may
take some pressure off the Fed to increase stimulus by boosting
economic growth. The $858 billion agreement between President
 Barack Obama  and Republican lawmakers, which would also cut
payroll taxes and extend unemployment benefits next year, was
advanced in the Senate yesterday.  Retail Sales  Some signs from the economy suggest the recovery is
sustainable, casting doubt on the need for the Fed to expand its
balance sheet.  Retail sales rose more than forecast in November as holiday
shopping got under way, Commerce Department figures showed
today. Customers snapped up discounts at chains like Target
Corp. and Macy’s Inc. during the Thanksgiving weekend, the
traditional kick-off to the busiest sales season of the year.
Other reports this week may show industrial production and
homebuilding rebounded, while the cost of living held steady.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  