-- Bharat Petroleum to Resume Mumbai Crude Unit Next Week After Maintenance
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2010-12-14T05:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/bharat-petroleum-to-resume-mumbai-crude-unit-next-week-after-maintenance.html
Bharat Petroleum Corp. , India’s
second-biggest state refiner, plans to start an 80,000 barrel-a-
day crude distillation unit at its Mumbai plant next week after
shutting it for maintenance last month.  The refiner will also start a catalytic cracker at the 12
million metric ton-a-year plant this week, Director of Finance
 S.K. Joshi  said today. The two units were closed for scheduled
maintenance on Nov. 17.  “The cracker will start running in a day or two, but the
crude unit will restart only next week,” Joshi said in a
telephone interview.  Bharat Petroleum currently operates two refineries, one in
Mumbai and the other in Kochi in southern India, with capacity
totaling about 21.5 million tons a year. The company plans to
start up a new plant in central India in January capable of
processing about 6 million tons of crude a year.  The  shares  rose as much as 2.4 percent to 695 rupees in
Mumbai trading today. The stock was at 688.1 rupees at 10:22 a.m.
local time, up 1.4 percent, beating the 0.2 percent gain in the
benchmark Sensex 30 Index.  Bharat Petroleum is examining options to boost capacity by
expanding its two existing plants and setting up a new refinery
in the north of the country, Chairman R.K. Singh said last month.  Indian refiners including Indian Oil Corp. and Hindustan
Petroleum Corp. are investing in new capacity as demand rises in
the world’s second-fastest growing major economy. The
International Energy Agency estimates energy consumption will
more than double to 833 million tons of oil equivalent by 2030.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratish Narayanan  in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net . 