-- Biggest Price Increase Since July Drives Inflation Bonds: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2010-12-14T11:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/biggest-price-increase-since-july-drives-inflation-bonds-argentina-credit.html
Argentina may report the fastest
consumer price increase since July, spurring demand for
inflation-linked peso bonds that have handed investors almost
double the return on government dollar debt this year.  The national statistics institute will say today prices
rose 11.2 percent in November from the same month a year ago,
compared with an 11.1 percent increase in each of the previous
three months, according to the median estimate of seven analysts
in a Bloomberg survey. The 7.13 percent yield on Argentine
 inflation-linked  local-currency bonds compares with 3.3 percent
in Mexico and 6.07 percent in Brazil, according to Barclays Plc.  Argentina peso bonds tied to consumer prices returned 52
percent this year, compared with 34 percent for dollar bonds,
according Barclays and JPMorgan Chase & Co. Economists and
investors including  Eduardo Costantini  of Consultatio Asset
Management say inflation is more than double the official rate.  “The inflation rate is accelerating because there are no
instruments to stop or diminish or change the inflation
dynamic,” Costantini, who manages $1.2 billion including
Argentine inflation-linked debt, said in a Dec. 9 interview in
Buenos Aires. Prices are rising at least 20 percent per year, he
said.  Argentine  consumer prices  will climb 26 percent this year
from 2009, the most in the world after Venezuela, said  Miguel Kiguel , a former deputy finance secretary. The central bank
printed pesos at the end of November at the fastest pace in at
least four months, prompting the country to begin importing 130
million 100-peso ($25) notes from Brazil.  Printing Money  “It’s getting harder for them to hide it,” said  Juan Pablo Fuentes , a Latin America economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “The central bank is
printing a lot of money. We have now very expansive monetary and
fiscal policies.”  Government  spending  rose 45 percent in October to 36.9
billion pesos. Tax revenue jumped 53 percent to about 40 billion
pesos in the same period.  Inflation could accelerate to 40 percent next year in a
“worst case scenario,” Kiguel, who served under former
President  Carlos Menem , said in a Dec. 10 interview in Buenos
Aires. The government is intensifying growth in an already
overheated economy, he said.  The national statistics institute will publish the November
inflation report tomorrow at 2 p.m. New York time.  Inflation Estimates  Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos  have questioned the government’s inflation reports since
2007, when then-President  Nestor Kirchner  began changing
personnel at the national statistics institute. Kirchner died in
October.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , the former
president’s widow, brought in officials from the International
Monetary Fund last week to offer advice on creating a new
national inflation index.  Argentines expect prices to rise 30 percent over the next
12 months, according to a Nov. 15 survey of 1,210 people
published by Buenos Aires-based Torcuato Di Tella University.
The poll had a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points.  A central bank official, who asked not to be identified in
accordance with internal policy, declined to comment. Messages
left at the economy ministry weren’t returned.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 1 basis point to 505 at
6:15 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.05 cent to 14
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso rose
0.1 percent to 3.9733 per dollar yesterday.  Credit Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 5 basis points to
636, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  began meeting with officials
from the Paris Club group of creditor nations yesterday to
discuss settling about $7 billion in defaulted debt. Boudou said
in Paris that the country is seeking a solution with the club,
whose members include Germany, Japan and the U.S., that will
allow Argentina to maintain growth and “reopen investment in
the economy.”  Latin America’s second-biggest economy is set to grow 9
percent this year, the most since 2005, following a record 55-
million metric ton soybean harvest and record auto production,
according to a central bank forecast.  Vehicle output  rose 36
percent in November from a year earlier and car exports advanced
26 percent over the same period, the country’s auto
manufacturing association said on Dec. 3.  Policy Changes  Even with the government working with the IMF on an
inflation index, the statistics agency is unlikely to report
price increases of more than 12 percent, said Fuentes of
Moody’s. Unofficial inflation will likely stay at about 30
percent in 2011 as  growth  slows to about 5 percent, he said.  “To close that gap the government needs to get serious
about making the right policy moves, about slowing spending,”
said Fuentes. “The economy doesn’t have the capacity to grow at
9 to 10 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Faries  in Buenos Aires at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  