-- Billionaire Prokhorov Denies Making Offer for Denver's Supatcha Resources
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-12-14T22:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/billionaire-prokhorov-denies-making-offer-for-denver-s-supatcha-resources.html
Mikhail Prokhorov , the second-
richest Russian, denied any association with  Supatcha Resources
Inc.  and an unsolicited bid for the Denver-based gold explorer.  “Mikhail Prokhorov categorically denies any involvement
with Supatcha,” Onexim Group, a Moscow-based holding company
owned by Prokhorov, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Igor Petrov , an Onexim spokesman, confirmed the release. A Dec. 10
statement from Supatcha citing Prokhorov’s participation in the
takeover bid is “completely false,” Onexim said.  Supatcha  fell  8.3 cents, or 44 percent, to 10.4 cents as of
3:59 p.m. in over-the-counter trading in New York, valuing the
company at $6.34 million.  Supatcha explores for gold deposits in Ukraine, according
to its  website . The shares jumped 77 percent on Dec. 10 after
Supatcha reported a $1.75-a-share bid from OXM Group, a company
it said is controlled by Prokhorov. Supatcha yesterday said it
got a second unsolicited bid, this time for $2.50 a share, from
a Moscow-based company called JSC Rustamov Group. The stock
slumped 73 percent yesterday.  Calls to Supatcha’s office in Denver weren’t answered. A
woman identifying herself as Lisa, who answered a call to the
investor-relations phone number listed on Supatcha’s website,
declined to comment, give her full name or identity her
employer.  A call to the Thunder Bay, Ontario, telephone number listed
by Supatcha on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
 website  was answered by a woman who said the number was for a
company called Auto-One Car Care and Service Centre. The woman
declined to give her name.  ‘In the Dark’  Supatcha last month hired  The Wall St Bulls Consultant
Group  to raise investor awareness, said Brett Smith, a senior
partner at the Naples, Florida-incorporated investor-relations
services provider.  “Since then it just has been quiet on the other end,”
Smith said in a telephone interview. He said he has communicated
with Supatcha executives only by e-mail.  “We are also in the dark about this company,” he said.  Supatcha paid Wall St Bulls with 4 million shares of the
company that cannot be sold until after May 19, Smith said.  “We did the work for the company,” he said. “We were
taken for a ride.”  Forbes magazine this year ranked Prokhorov, 45, as Russia’s
second-richest man, with a $13.4 billion fortune. He is chief
executive officer of Russian gold producer OAO Polyus Gold and
owns the New Jersey Nets basketball team. Russia’s richest man
is OAO Novolipetsk Steel owner  Vladimir Lisin , according to
Forbes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 