-- Bomb Blasts Pave Way for Surveillance as Swedes React to Terror
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r   a n d   T o b y   A l d e r
-- 2010-12-15T11:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/bomb-blasts-clear-way-for-tighter-surveillance-as-swedes-react-to-terror.html
Sweden’s brush with terror after a
suicide bomber on Dec. 11 detonated himself before executing a
planned strike in central Stockholm has eroded lawmaker
resistance to pushing through tougher surveillance laws.  The opposition Social Democrats will no longer block a
government proposal to let the Swedish Security Service use
information from the National Defense Radio Establishment, said
 Morgan Johansson , chairman of parliament’s justice committee.
The anti-immigration Sweden Democrats, which entered parliament
for the first time in September elections, want lawmakers to
address “violent Islamist extremism” in an extraordinary
session, party spokesman Martin Kinnunen said.  “Routines will be sharpened and that’s something we will
all have to accept,” said  Bo Huldt , a professor in security
policy at the Stockholm-based National Defense College, in a
Dec. 13 interview. “It may mean restrictions for us all
regarding where we can move around, how many people can attend
meetings or gatherings and more police presence at meetings.”  Sweden has so far had laxer security laws than neighboring
Denmark and Norway. The largest Nordic country has tried to
balance maintaining democratic freedoms with adequate protection
of its citizens, says  Anders Thornberg , director of operations
at the Swedish Security Service. After the weekend’s bomb
blasts, police will “have to reconsider” this stance, he said.  Preventive Measures  “It is impossible in a western society to know what
everyone is doing,” Thornberg said in an interview. “But of
course, when this is solved, later on, we have to reconsider and
evaluate when we see what we have done and if we can do
something better.”  Johansson, a former Social Democrat health minister, said
laws may be changed to allow preventive action. The police need
the tools to uncover “potential perpetrators,” he told
broadcaster SVT.  Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  told SVT security police
need “to be ahead of the game, to prevent” terror attacks.  Unlike neighboring Denmark, which became a target of
Islamist anger in 2006 after its biggest newspaper published
caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad, Swedish police until
October had deemed the threat of any terrorist attack to be
“low.” Police then raised the alert level to “elevated,”
though they said there was no “imminent” threat of any attack.  Anders Hall, Head of Planning at the Ministry of Justice in
Stockholm, said tracking religious extremists remains difficult,
even after Sweden’s security service raised its staff to 1,000
from about 800 in 2005.  Religious Extremism  Sweden’s laws protecting freedom of speech and freedom of
association mean police follow “tight regulations” when
tracking demographic groups, Hall said in an interview.  “These regulations are part of the Swedish constitution
and are firmly in place,” Hall said.  There are almost 200 Islamist extremists in Sweden who
assent to violent acts, the security service said in a  report  on
its website today. While Islamist extremism and radicalization
exist in Sweden and “shouldn’t be underestimated,” it’s a
“limited phenomenon” that should be handled through preventive
measures, the report said.  Sweden has about 500 troops in Afghanistan, serving as part
of the International Security Assistance Force. Swedish artist
Lars Vilks drew anger from some Muslims after newspaper Nerikes
Allehanda published one of his drawings that put Mohammad’s head
on a dog’s body in 2007.  Jihad  Shortly before the weekend’s explosions, police and a local
news agency received an e-mail with recordings in Swedish and
Arabic from a man who said it was “time to strike” because a
“war was being waged against Islam.” Sweden says it’s
coordinating its investigation of the blasts with the U.K.  In the recording, the suspect expresses anger against Vilks
and the Afghan deployment. He apologizes to his family for lying
about his trips to the Middle East, saying he went “for
Jihad.”  Police on Dec. 13 said they were almost certain the suicide
bomber was 28-year-old Taimour Abdulwahab. The U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper said Abdulwahab was an Iraqi-born Swede who obtained a
Bachelors of Science in sports therapy from the University of
Bedfordshire in 2004.  “This man has been very skilful in avoiding contacts with
known terrorists,” Thornberg said. “He has been very skilful
in handling his preparations for this case so he hasn’t shown up
on our radar.”  FBI Help  Sweden will get help from the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigations, which has sent seven experts on explosives to
help probe the Dec. 11 blasts, police said on Dec. 13.  The
group of U.S. investigators includes specialists in tracking
explosive substances and in methods terrorists have used in
other attacks, police said.  Since the 9/11 terror attacks in the U.S., Denmark has more
than doubled the number of people working at its security
service.  The Copenhagen-based parliament passed three anti-terror
laws from 2002 to 2007, making it easier for security services
to conduct phone surveillance and obtain information from other
government entities. The laws also allow for increased prison
terms for terror-related crimes.  In Norway, the government on Dec. 1 presented a plan it
said would help combat “violent, extremist attitudes,”
comprising 30 measures including better access to information.  Swedish police said Abdulwahab was probably targeting an
area where he could hurt “as many people as possible,” before
a failure in his equipment led to early detonation.  According to Huldt, “even though things went well this
time and nobody else was hurt, it’s still a failure,” of
police.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net 
 Toby Alder  in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  