-- Keaton Offers Pratfalls, House Collapse for Holiday Gifts: DVDs
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2010-12-14T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/buster-keaton-offers-pratfalls-house-collapse-for-holidays-rainer-file.html
With the possible exception of
 Charlie Chaplin , Buster Keaton was the greatest physical comic
in movie history.  Kino has been steadily building up a wonderfully restored
 DVD collection  of Keaton’s best work, most recently with the
Blu-ray editions of “The General,” “Sherlock, Jr.” and my
favorite, “Steamboat Bill, Jr.” They’re indispensible to any
film lover and would make great holiday gifts.  “The General” (1927) is his Civil War masterpiece about a
Southern railway driver who singlehandedly pursues the Union
spies who simultaneously steal his engine -- the “General” --
and his lady love.  Keaton, who co-directed, strikes images that are as gravely
beautiful as the Civil War photos of Matthew Brady, though you
may be laughing too hard to appreciate them.  “Sherlock, Jr.” (1924) is, at 44 minutes, Keaton’s
shortest feature. It’s also his most surreal, which may explain
why  Luis Bunuel  was such a fan of the film. He plays a
projectionist and aspiring sleuth who, falling asleep during a
movie, dreams his way onto the screen where he becomes Sherlock
Jr. and solves a mystery involving stolen pearls.  While Keaton always disdained the label of “artist,” no
other film director/performer captured so well the sensual
mysteriousness of the movie-going experience. The playful
experimentalism of “Sherlock, Jr.” influenced everyone from
 Woody Allen  to  Jackie Chan .  Cyclone Scene  “Steamboat Bill, Jr.” (1928) probably has more gags per
minute than any other Keaton feature, but it’s not just a grab
bag of routines from his vaudeville days. It’s a great love
story with the precision timing of a Rolex.  Keaton plays Willie, an effete college graduate who returns
to his small Mississippi hometown to visit his burly,
uncomprehending steamboat-owner father (a scowling Ernest
Torrence). He has to fight for the respect of his dad and the
love of Kitty (Marion Byron), the daughter of his father’s
wealthy rival.  The centerpiece is the cyclone sequence, in which the town
is blown apart. Keaton floats through the air clinging to an
uprooted tree and jumps into the wind before getting bounced
back -- all this before CGI effects took the magic out of
stuntwork.  “Steamboat Bill, Jr.” features one of the riskiest stunts
in movie history. The front of a house collapses over an
unknowing Willie, who is unhurt only because he is framed by the
open window in the facade. This trick was done for real; a
couple of inches either way and Keaton would have been crushed.  MGM Movies  Like “The General,” “Steamboat Bill, Jr.” was a
commercial flop. Keaton then gave up his creative independence
to work for MGM, a move he later characterized as the “worst
mistake of my life.”  Keaton’s MGM features and the shorts he made in the mid-
1930s for Educational Pictures (the title is a misnomer) are
generally regarded as vastly inferior to his best silents.  In an attempt to revise this history, Kino has also
released “Lost Keaton,” a two-disc collection of his rarely
seen Educational shorts. Although many of these are threadbare
and derivative of his earlier work, there are lightning flashes
of greatness, such as the juggling routine in “Grand Slam
Opera” and his slapstick parody of  Fred Astaire .  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story: Peter Rainer
at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 