-- California's $2.3 Billion Sale of State Buildings Is Postponed by Court
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-12-14T02:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/california-s-sale-of-government-owned-buildings-postponed-by-appeals-court.html
California ’s planned $2.3 billion
sale of 11 government-owned buildings to help plug a budget
deficit, slated to close Dec. 15, was blocked by a state appeals
court that will review a petition to reverse a trial judge’s
decision allowing the sale.  The sale “is stayed until further order of this court” to
permit additional consideration of the issues, according to an
electronic docket posting today by the 6th District Court of
Appeal in San Jose. Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  can file
papers opposing the petition on Dec. 27 and opponents of the
sale can file a reply on Dec. 29, the docket says.  Schwarzenegger and lawmakers included the sale in a budget
enacted in October that counted on $1.2 billion in proceeds from
the properties to help fill a $19 billion deficit in the year
through June. If blocked, it would add to an already $6 billion
deficit that has re-emerged in the current fiscal year.  “Using one-time revenues to fix the structural budget
deficit is never a good idea,” said Hallye Jordan, a
spokeswoman for state Controller  John Chiang , who opposed the
sale. “The sale and leaseback of the 11 state buildings is
another budget gimmick that continues to push our fiscal
challenges down the road.”  State Deficit  The most populous U.S. state’s deficit is projected to
reach at least $25 billion over the next 18 months. Governor-
elect  Jerry Brown , who takes office Jan. 3, must propose a
budget that eliminates that gap when he releases his first
spending plan Jan. 10.  Superior Court Judge Charlotte Woolard in San Francisco
ruled Dec. 10 that two former members of the Los Angeles State
Building Authority who sued to stop the deal lacked standing to
bring the case and didn’t demonstrate that the sale to a private
buyer was a waste or illegal gift. The plaintiffs appealed and
sought an emergency stay of Woolard’s ruling.  Anne Marie Murphy, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said
it’s not clear when the court will rule on whether to continue
to block the sale, pending the outcome of the appeal.  Schwarzenegger’s press secretary,  Aaron McLear , referred
calls to the state’s  Department of General Services . A message
left there wasn’t immediately returned.  California awarded the sale in October to a partnership led
by Hines, a Houston-based real estate investor, and Antarctica
Capital Real Estate LLC. Proceeds will go to pay $1.09 billion
of debt on the buildings and add $1.2 billion to the state’s
general fund, the  General Services  agency said at the time.  California will lease back the offices over 20 years, and
won’t be responsible for maintaining, operating or repairing the
buildings.  The  case  is Epstein v. Superior Court, H036365, California
Court of Appeal (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  