-- Canada's Labor Productivity Unexpectedly Rises 0.1% During Third Quarter
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-12-14T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/canada-s-labor-productivity-unexpectedly-rises-0-1-during-third-quarter.html
Canadian  labor productivity 
unexpectedly rose 0.1 percent in the third quarter after falling
in the previous three-month period, government figures showed.  Business output increased 0.1 percent and hours worked were
unchanged, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists
predicted the measure of worker output per hour would fall 0.1
percent, based on the median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg
 survey . Statistics Canada also revised its estimate of the
second-quarter decline to 0.6 percent from 0.8 percent.  Canadian companies have “challenges with competitiveness”
and need to invest more to boost exports, Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said yesterday in Toronto. Weak
productivity and “persistent strength” in the Canadian dollar
could restrain exports and hinder the country’s economic
recovery, Carney also said.  Unit labor costs  rose 0.6 percent in the third quarter,
reflecting a gain in hourly compensation, Statistics Canada’s
report said. Measured in U.S. dollars, unit labor costs fell 0.5
percent, the first decline since the first quarter of 2009, as
the Canadian dollar weakened by 1.1 percent.  Labor productivity was 1.1 percent higher in the third
quarter than the same period a year earlier.  Companies have started to use the stronger Canadian dollar
to purchase new imported equipment. The currency has traded
close to parity with the U.S. dollar for most of this year.  Canada’s 1 percent annualized growth rate in the third
quarter was led in part by a 4.6 percent gain for business
investment in plant and equipment, the fastest since 2005,
Statistics Canada said Nov. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 