-- Canadians With More Debt Than U.S. Spark Policy Makers' Warning
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-12-14T18:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/canadians-with-more-debt-than-u-s-spark-policy-makers-warning.html
Canada’s top economic officials
yesterday urged households to be wary of taking on too much debt
after data showed the indebtedness of Canadians surpassed U.S.
levels for the first time in 12 years.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  and Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said in separate
public appearances that they are concerned about rising debt.
The ratio of household debt to disposable income in Canada was
1.48 in the third quarter according to Statistics Canada,
exceeding the U.S. level of 1.47.  “Our parents were more inclined to pay off that mortgage
as soon as possible, and some Canadians are not as inclined to
do that now,” Flaherty told reporters yesterday. “I encourage
them to do it.”  The comments by the policy makers underscore government
concern that debt levels in Canada could threaten the recovery
if borrowing costs rise and households struggle to pay their
bills. Canada has relied on regulatory steps to rein in mortgage
borrowing, most recently in February, and Flaherty said
yesterday he is prepared to take additional measures if needed.  “The fear is that were we to see sharp rises in interest
rates or were we to see sharp rises in unemployment, that a
significant number of people might not be able to afford their
debt obligations,” Flaherty said.  In Canada, where banks largely escaped the global financial
crisis and continued to lend even as credit dried up elsewhere,
low interest rates have encouraged consumers to take on debt.  Limits to Divergence  Carney, 45, left the benchmark target rate at 1 percent
this month to gauge the global recovery after three earlier
increases, while the U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its benchmark
rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.
Carney said in a Sept. 24 interview on CNBC that “there are
limits to the divergence that there can be between Canada and
the United States.”  While Canada’s economic recovery could be threatened in the
future by elevated debt levels, higher Canadian interest rates
could also cause the Canadian dollar to appreciate. Speaking to
reporters after a speech in Toronto, Carney noted that the bank
had flagged as a risk to the economy that “persistent strength
of the Canadian dollar” and weak productivity could crimp
exports and hinder Canada’s recovery.  “To some extent that risk is being realized, which is one
of the things we will have to assess as we sit down in
January,” Carney said, referring to the bank’s next interest
rate decision and monetary policy report.  Boxed In  “The Bank of Canada is in a bit of a box, given where the
Fed is and where the Canadian dollar is,” said  Doug Porter ,
deputy chief economist with BMO Capital markets in Toronto.  Canada’s dollar rose for the fifth consecutive day today to
post the longest winning streak in more than a month. The
currency has gained 2.2 percent this month versus the U.S.
dollar. The Canadian dollar rose 0.3 percent to C$1.0047 per
U.S. dollar at 1:19 a.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0074 yesterday.
One Canadian dollar bought 99.53 U.S. cents.  Measures to restrain lending taken earlier this year
included changes for government-backed mortgages that forced
buyers to meet standards for five-year,  fixed-rate mortgages 
even if they opt for variable rates. Limits on refinancing were
made stricter and down payment rules were tightened.  The proportion of Canadians in a stretched financial
 position  “has grown significantly,” Carney said in his speech
-- entitled “Living with Low for Long” -- adding that
authorities continue to monitor households’ finances.  Watching Closely  “The level of vulnerabilities of households remains high”
Carney said at the press conference. “The authorities are
cooperating closely, we are continuing to monitor the situation
closely.”  “We have debt levels that are unprecedented in this
country,” Carney said in an interview broadcast today on BNN
Television. “We are in uncharted territory.”  To be sure, Harper said his government cannot
“exaggerate” the degree with which it can control borrowing.  “We are a free country and people are entitled to make
their own financial decisions,” Harper said. “This is a matter
that is of concern to the government, we continue to warn
Canadian households that interest rates are unlikely to go
down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Quinn  in Toronto at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  