-- Canada Dollar Fluctuates Amid Swings in Oil as Fed Keeps Stimulus Program
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-14T22:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/canada-s-dollar-strengthens-as-fed-plans-to-maintain-its-stimulus-program.html
Canada’s dollar fluctuated as U.S.
Federal Reserve policy makers kept their stimulus plan to buy
$600 billion of Treasuries through June and commodities
including crude oil swung between losses and gains.  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie, still fell
against six of its 16 major peers after Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  said yesterday its “persistent strength” poses a
risk to the recovery. The greenback dropped against most of its
counterparts as the Fed said it would maintain its asset-
purchasing program.  “The likelihood is that the U.S. dollar itself will
continue to be pressured lower,”  Jack Spitz , managing director
of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada, said by phone
from Toronto. “As the dollar declines, commodities should be
trading somewhat higher, which should contribute to a bid to
commodity currencies such as Canada.”  The Canadian currency gained 0.1 percent to C$1.0062 at 5
p.m. in Toronto, after strengthening to C$1.0029 and weakening
to C$1.0111. It closed at C$1.0074 yesterday, when it reached
C$1.0028, the strongest level since Dec. 7. One Canadian dollar
buys 99.38 U.S. cents.  Crude oil for January delivery traded at $88.26 a barrel in
New York, down 0.4 percent, after rising 0.4 percent and falling
as much as 1 percent. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index  of
raw materials lost as much as 0.3 percent and gained as much as
0.3 percent.  ‘Stronger Pace’  The Fed stuck with its purchase program, known as
quantitative easing, amid criticism from top Republican
lawmakers. The buys will “promote a stronger pace of economic
recovery,” the Federal Open Market Committee said in a
statement in Washington. It added that unemployment is too high,
and repeated a pledge to leave the benchmark interest rate low
for an “extended period.”  Canadian government bonds fell, pushing the 10-year note
 yield  up 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 3.34
percent. It touched 3.372 percent, the highest level since June
21. The price of the 3.5 percent security due in June 2020
decreased 85 cents to C$101.30.  Bank of Canada Governor Carney said yesterday the Fed’s
policies have had “all the expected effects,” including a
weakening of the U.S. dollar. The latest round of quantitative
easing should have a “positive but small” impact on Canadian
economic growth, he said.  ‘Persistent Strength’  “One of the risks is persistent strength of the Canadian
dollar could interact with weak productivity performance and
reinforce this trade drag that we have seen,” Carney said at a
press conference after a speech yesterday in Toronto. “To some
extent that risk is being realized, which is one of the things
we will have to assess as we sit down in January.” he said.  Exports, which equaled 32 percent of Canada’s economy in
2009, declined by 1.3 percent between July and October,
Statistics Canada said Nov. 30. About three-quarters of those
shipments went to the U.S. last year. Imports of goods and
services rose 1.6 percent.  The central bank’s next rate decision is Jan. 18.  “The U.S. dollar is getting beaten up and Carney’s
comments are a headwind,”  David Watt , senior currency
strategist in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
unit, said via e-mail. The central-bank chief has “seemingly
gone out of his way to be cautious and has repeatedly expressed
wariness about U.S. demand and Canadian-dollar strength.”  Productivity Rises  Labor  productivity  unexpectedly rose 0.1 percent in the
third quarter after falling a revised 0.6 percent in the
previous three-month period, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. Economists predicted the measure of worker output per
hour would decline 0.1 percent, the median of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Canada’s index of leading  economic indicators  increased 0.3
percent in November, the second straight gain, led by gains in
housing and stock prices, the statistics agency said. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the index would rise 0.5
percent, based on the median of nine estimates.  Sales at U.S. retailers rose 0.8 percent in November, more
than forecast, as holiday shopping got under way, a sign
consumers will play a bigger role in the recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  