-- U.S. CEOs in Survey Are Most Optimistic Since 2006
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-12-14T15:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/chief-executives-in-u-s-are-the-most-optimistic-since-2006-survey-shows.html
Optimism among U.S. chief executives
in the fourth quarter rose to the highest level since the start
of 2006 as business leaders projected increased sales,
investment and  hiring , a private survey showed.  The  Business Roundtable’s  economic outlook index climbed to
101 after falling in the previous quarter for the first time
since the beginning of 2009, the Washington-based group said
today. Readings higher than 50 coincide with an economic
expansion. The gauge, which increased from a third-quarter
reading of 86, rose to 102 in the  first quarter  of 2006.  Forty-five percent of respondents said they will add to
payrolls, an increase of 14 percentage points, while 80 percent
said they expect sales will grow in the next six months, up from
66 percent in the third quarter. Businesses need to pick up
hiring to lower an unemployment rate that’s been at 9.5 percent
or higher for 16 straight months, the longest such stretch since
record-keeping began in 1948.  “If demand continues to accelerate quarter after quarter
after quarter, some of the uncertainty in the economy would
begin to abate,”  Ivan G. Seidenberg , chairman of the Business
Roundtable and chief executive officer of New York-based  Verizon
Communications Inc. , said today during a conference call.  “Short-term demand is good,” he said. “But you still
have these fundamental issues that unless you keep reducing the
amount of uncertainty, you won’t get a really big pickup in
investment and a deployment in the capital that’s necessary to
really supercharge the economy.”  Spending Plan  Fifty-nine percent of executives said they plan to spend
more on equipment, up from 49 percent, the survey showed.  The executives forecast U.S. economic growth of 2.5 percent
in 2011 after projecting 1.9 percent growth for 2010 in the
previous survey. That compares with the 2.6 percent median
estimate of economists for 2011 surveyed by Bloomberg News from
Dec. 2-8.  “Positively we’ll see stimulus created over the next 12
months, but I think if we don’t head into 2012 and 2013 with
more fundamental reforms, we’ll end up sort of dragging our feet
a little bit about how we can accelerate the growth of the
economy,” Seidenberg said, citing the need for changes to
personal income and international taxes in the U.S.  “The country needs to have a discussion around these
things so we can create a more permanent solution,” he said.  The Business Roundtable survey was taken from Nov. 8 to
Dec. 3. Seidenberg said 137 CEOS responded, up from 136, the
number the Business Roundtable released earlier today.  Job Loss  The recession that began in December 2007 led to the loss
of about 8.4 million jobs, the biggest employment slump in the
post-World War II era. So far this year, companies have added
1.2 million jobs, not enough to keep the  unemployment  rate from
rising to 9.8 percent in November.  Materials, health care and labor costs topped the list of
the respondents’ chief concerns. About one-third said material
costs will have the greatest impact on their business.  “If you look at the survey and you see people suggesting
that materials, cotton, metals, seem to have slightly higher
cost profiles, that’s generally an early signal that perhaps the
inflation issue is somewhere in the background,” Seidenberg
said. “I would not give it a high prominence, but it’s
something you obviously should pay attention to.”  Profitable Ford  Ford Motor Co. , the world’s most profitable automaker, on
Dec. 9 said it plans to hire 1,800 workers by the end of 2011
and spend $600 million to overhaul a factory in Louisville,
Kentucky, to build small sport-utility vehicles. Ford earned
$6.37 billion in the first nine months of the year, more than
any other global carmaker.  General Electric Co. , a member of the association, last
week raised its dividend for the second time in five months.
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said the decision
reflected strong cash generation, accelerated recovery at GE
Capital and solid underlying performance in the industrial
businesses.  The Business Roundtable is an association of 193 CEOs from
corporations representing a combined workforce of more than 12
million employees and almost $6 trillion in annual revenue.
Member companies comprise nearly a third of the total value of
the U.S. stock markets and pay $167 billion annually in
dividends to shareholders, according to the group’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  