-- China Rate Pause May Reflect Policy Maker Split, Deutsche Bank's Ma Says
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-12-14T07:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/china-rate-pause-may-reflect-policy-maker-split-deutsche-bank-s-ma-says.html
China’s pause in adding to October’s
interest-rate increase may reflect the difficulty in reaching
consensus as the  State Council  consults with government agencies,
according to Deutsche Bank AG economist  Ma Jun .  “It has been difficult to reach consensus on a rate
hike,” Ma said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday, noting
that “the People’s Bank of China is not the final decision-
maker of monetary policy.”  Accelerating inflation has underscored the risks of
delaying monetary tightening in China after lenders flooded the
world’s fastest-growing major economy with cash to drive the
nation’s recovery from the global financial crisis. A decision
making process that relies on consensus may be slowing the
government’s response, according to Ma, who previously worked at
the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.  Rate decisions tend “to represent different interests in
the economy, not just the inflation control objective,” said Ma,
the No. 1 China analyst in polls by the magazine  Institutional
Investor  and the top China economist in an Asiamoney survey in
2010.  Consumer prices  jumped 5.1 percent in November, a
statistics bureau report showed Dec. 11. A measure of wholesale
costs climbed 6.1 percent, exceeding all 28 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Even so, the central bank
held off over the weekend on the rate move predicted by firms
including UBS AG and Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  All Possible Means  “China needs essentially all possible means to deal with
inflation,” he said.  According to Ma, the central bank should increase interest
rates by 0.75 percentage point by June and raise bank reserve
requirements by as much as 2 percentage points. The central bank
will allow “a little faster” gain in yuan’s value, which may
rise 5 percent against the dollar by the end of 2011, Ma said.  The PBOC boosted the rates by a quarter point each in
October, to 5.56 percent and 2.5 percent, leaving it lagging
behind counterparts from Malaysia to Thailand, Taiwan and South
Korea in boosting borrowing costs this year.  Inflation may average 4.2 percent next year and is the
biggest risk to the Chinese economy, Ma said. That would leave a
negative so-called real rate for deposits, meaning households’
purchasing power is eroded by the increases in consumer prices.  Inflation Outlook  While inflation may slow to 4 percent this month, it’s
likely to run about 5 percent in the second quarter after the
Chinese Lunar New Year in February, he forecasts. In the first
11 months of this year, prices rose 3.2 percent.  A delay in increasing borrowing costs is “not desirable”
and “will force them to raise more aggressively later” to
counter inflation, Ma said.  China’s economy may grow 10.3 percent this year and slow to
9 percent next year, Yu Bin, director general of the
macroeconomic research department of the State Council’s
development research center, said in Beijing today.  Monetary policy in 2011 will be “tightened appropriately,”
Yu said. “Even if the growth rate of money supply and loans is
slower next year, if we can effectively guide” the deployment of
credit, then the impact on the economy will be limited, he said.  China’s new bank lending and money supply growth next year
will be lower than levels in 2009 and 2010, Yu said. China’s
government aims for 16 percent money supply expansion and a
target of at least 7 trillion yuan of new loans next year, said
two people briefed on the matter, declining to be identified
because the information isn’t public. That compares with this
year’s 7.5 trillion yuan target for new lending and nearly 21
percent growth in money supply in the first 11 months of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  