-- Christie May Unveil Income-, Business-Tax Cuts in New Jersey, Adviser Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-14T18:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/christie-may-unveil-income-business-tax-cuts-in-new-jersey-adviser-says.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
may propose business- and income-tax cuts as soon as January,
said  Robert Grady , chairman of the governor’s Council of
Economic Advisors.  Christie and Treasurer  Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff  are
evaluating options for reducing individual and corporate taxes,
Grady said at a conference of business owners in Woodbridge
today.  The deliberations include discussions with employers about
whether potential reductions would improve the state’s economic
climate and create jobs, Grady said. Any moves, which also may
include changes in tax calculations, would need to preserve a
balanced  budget , he said.  “It’s a top to bottom reassessment,” Grady said at the
forum. “Step one was stemming growth in spending and 115 tax
increases in the prior decade. Step two is looking at
reductions.”  Christie, a Republican who took office in January, will
seek to lower the state tax burden during his term to the level
before Democrat  James McGreevey  took office in 2002, Grady said.
 Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, declined in an e-
mail to comment on Grady’s remarks.  The governor, 48, closed a $10.7 billion deficit without
raising taxes in his $29.3 billion budget for the fiscal year
that began July 1. In May, he vetoed an attempt by the Democrats
who control the Legislature to re-authorize a lapsed income-tax
surcharge on residents earning more than $1 million a year.  Christie faces a deficit of as much as $10.5 billion in the
next fiscal year, the non-partisan Office of Legislative
Services estimated in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 