-- Citigroup Prime Finance Hires Treadwell as Asia Derivatives Clearing Head
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-12-14T03:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/citigroup-prime-finance-hires-treadwell-as-asia-derivatives-clearing-head.html
Citigroup Inc. , the third-largest
U.S. bank, hired  Thomas Treadwell  to build up its prime finance
derivatives clearing team in the Asia-Pacific region as
regulators globally seek to improve supervision of over-the-
counter products.  Treadwell, who most recently was head of prime services
operations at Barclays Plc in Singapore, started on Dec. 6 as
Hong Kong-based business manager for derivatives clearing, said
 Hannah Goodwin , Citigroup’s head of  prime  finance in the region.  Privately negotiated derivative contracts traded off
exchanges, such as $583 trillion of OTC swaps, were blamed for
exacerbating the credit crisis. Fear of counterparties not
honoring contracts has triggered new rules globally to make it
easier to route deals through clearinghouses and create central
registries for such products.  “It gives more transparency and protection,” said Goodwin
in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday.  Hedge funds, mutual funds, banks and companies used to hold
their OTC derivatives in separate accounts with the brokers that
wrote the contracts. The new service allows them to consolidate
their derivatives holdings into one clearing broker account,
streamlining the calculation of the amount of cash or securities
they are required to hold against these contracts, said Goodwin.  U.S. regulators have until July to implement rules
requiring most swaps to be guaranteed by clearinghouses and
traded on regulated exchanges or so-called swap-execution
facilities.  Central Registry  Hong Kong Monetary Authority  announced  on Dec. 10 that it
will develop a central registry for OTC derivatives. The city’s
Securities and Futures Commission will consult market
participants on the creation by 2012 of a trade repository and
clearinghouse for such contracts, it  said  the same day.  Treadwell will initially focus on delivering U.S. and
European derivative products to Citigroup’s Asia-based clients
and work with regional exchanges to develop clearing
arrangements, Goodwin said.  Interest rate swaps exchange fixed with floating interest
payments. Credit default swaps pay buyers the face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent in
case of a debt default.  Citigroup aims to be able to clear all assets as
regulations and clearinghouse offerings mature, Goodwin said.  The Asia-Pacific region accounted for 35 percent of the
global derivatives volumes, Westborough, Massachusetts-based
research firm Tabb Group Inc. said in an Oct. 6  statement  on its
Web site.  Capital Introductions  Citigroup also hired  Martin Visairas  as its new head of
capital introductions in the region, responsible for linking
hedge funds with potential investors. Visairas held a similar
job at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit before
joining Old Mutual Asset Managers Holdings UK Ltd. as head of
international sales in London, Goodwin said.  Citigroup merged the capital introductions into the hedge
fund sales team after the departure of Michael Mills, the bank’s
last capital introductions head in the region, a year ago,
Goodwin said.  Now “capital introductions demand a dedicated head as
investors start to look at bring money back to Asia,” she said.  Investors added $300 million of new capital into the
$78.5 billion Asian hedge fund industry in the third quarter,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  The recruitment of Treadwell and Visairas brought the
number of people who joined Citigroup’s regional prime finance
team to 15 this year, Goodwin said. It may hire as many as 10
more next year, she added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  