-- Cliff Lee Sends Phillies Past Yankees as Next Year's World Series Favorite
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-12-14T18:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/cliff-lee-sends-phillies-past-yankees-as-next-year-s-world-series-favorite.html
The Philadelphia Phillies moved past
the New York Yankees to become bookmakers’ favorites to win the
2011 World Series, following reports that the team signed free-
agent pitcher  Cliff Lee , a two-time All-Star.  The odds on the Phillies winning the Major League Baseball
title shifted overnight to 9-5 from 6-1, making Philadelphia the
lone favorite, said  Jeff Sherman , the assistant general manager
at the Las Vegas Hilton’s  sports book . The Yankees’ odds widened
to 6-1, same as the Boston Red Sox, from 5-2.  “The Lee news drastically changed the landscape of the
World Series odds,” Sherman said in a telephone interview.
“The Phillies have become the favorite at better than two to
one, followed by two teams at 6-1 and then no one else better
than 15-1.”  At those odds, a winning $5 bet on the Phillies would yield
a payout of $9.  Lee, who spent the final two months of the 2009 season in
Philadelphia, agreed to a five-year, $120 million contract with
the Phillies that includes an option for a sixth season,  ESPN
said , without revealing where it got the information. Lee, 32,
was pursued by the Texas Rangers and New York Yankees.  The odds on the Yankees dropped to 6-1 from 5-2 when it
became clear Lee would not sign with New York, Sherman said. The
news also moved the Rangers’ odds to 20-1 from 15-1.  Yankees Odds  While the Hilton adjusted the Yankees to 6-1, tied with
the American League East-rival Red Sox, Las Vegas Sports
Consultants advised that the Yankees be moved to 7-2.  “The Yankees are the Yankees,”  Tony Sinisi , an oddsmaker
for the service that helps bookmakers set betting lines, said in
a telephone interview. “They will remain our second favorite.”  The Antigua-based gambling website Bodog.com is offering
wagers on whether Lee will win more or less than 17 games and if
the Phillies will win more or less than 96 games. Last season
the Phillies were 97-65, the best record in the National League.  The 2008 AL Cy Young Award winner, Lee has a career 3.18
ERA and is 7-2 in 10 playoff starts. Last season he led the AL
in complete games (7), fewest walks per nine innings (0.76) and
strikeout-to-walk ratio (10.28-to-1), while helping the Rangers
reach the World Series for the first time.  The Hilton made the adjustments at 9 p.m. Las Vegas time
and will not take action until today, Sherman said. He said it
was too early to know how the news would affect betting volume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  