-- Yankees' Cashman Preaches Patience After Missing Out on Cliff Lee Again
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M i c h e l e   S t e e l e
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/cliff-lee-will-sign-for-phillies-shunning-yankees-rangers-mlb-com-says.html
New York Yankees General Manager
 Brian Cashman  preached patience after missing out on  Cliff Lee 
for the second time in five months and said he wasn’t angry the
left-hander agreed to sign with the Philadelphia Phillies.  Lee spurned offers from the Yankees and the Texas Rangers,
the team he led to its first World Series this past season, in
favor of the Phillies, said a Major League Baseball official who
requested anonymity because the deal isn’t complete.  Lee, who spent the final two months of the 2009 season in
Philadelphia, agreed to a five-year, $120 million contract with
the Phillies that includes an option for a sixth season,  ESPN 
said, without revealing where it got the information.  “Plan B is patience,” Cashman said yesterday in a
conference call with reporters. “I’m not angry. It certainly
would have looked nice to have him in our rotation, but that’s
not going to happen now.”  The Rangers’ proposal to the 32-year-old Lee was for six
years at $138 million, with some of that money deferred and a
vesting option for a seventh year at $23 million, the Dallas
Morning News said. The Yankees’ final offer was seven years at a
little more than $21 million per season, ESPN reported.  Texas balked at matching New York’s terms, General Partner
 Chuck Greenberg  told reporters yesterday in a conference call.  Unacceptable Terms  “It was beyond the level we could live with, so we would
not accept those terms,” Greenberg said. “He was willing to
remain a Ranger, but it was on terms we felt went beyond the
aggressive parameters we were operating under.”  Lee was the most sought-after pitcher on baseball’s free-
agent market. The 2008 American League Cy Young Award winner
will join a starting rotation that includes fellow All-Stars  Roy Halladay ,  Roy Oswalt  and  Cole Hamels .  Phillies spokesman  Kevin Gregg  wouldn’t confirm the
signing, and Lee’s agent, Darek Braunecker, didn’t respond to a
message seeking comment.  Lee has a career record of 102-61 with a 3.85 earned run
average over nine seasons with the Cleveland Indians, Phillies,
Seattle Mariners and Rangers. He’s 7-2 with a 2.13 earned run
average in 10 postseason starts.  Lee came to Philadelphia at the trade deadline two years
ago and helped the Phillies reach the World Series. He went 4-0
with a 1.56 ERA in five postseason starts and threw complete
games in the Phillies’ two wins in a six-game World Series loss
to the Yankees.  With uncertainty about being able to re-sign Lee to a long-
term deal, the Phillies traded him to the Mariners and acquired
Halladay from the Toronto Blue Jays.  Phillies’ Payroll  The Phillies are owned by a group including  David Montgomery  and  Bill Giles , and had a 2010 Opening Day payroll of
$141.9 million, fourth highest in the sport. This offseason the
team lost free-agent outfielder  Jayson Werth , who made $7.5
million last season and added Lee, who will reportedly make an
average of $24 million over the next five seasons.  “Ownership here finally figured out that if you put a
winning product on the field, people will come and come in
droves,” said Mitch Williams, a former Phillies pitcher who now
is an analyst for MLB Network.  Seattle traded Lee to the Rangers in July after a deal with
the Yankees couldn’t be worked out. He won his three playoff
starts to lead Texas past the Tampa Bay Rays and Yankees before
going 0-2 as the San Francisco Giants won the World Series.  The Phillies won a major league best 97 games last season
before having their two-year reign as National League champions
ended by the Giants. Philadelphia’s 3.67 team ERA was sixth
lowest in the majors.  Yankees Sign Rivera  The Yankees, who announced yesterday that they had re-
signed reliever  Mariano Rivera , were seeking to add Lee to a
pitching staff that had a 4.06 ERA and a league-low three
complete games last season. In the team’s six-game AL
Championship Series loss to the Rangers, Yankees’ pitchers had a
6.58 ERA.  Cashman quoted the late Yankees owner  George Steinbrenner 
as he said his team has no reason to feel down.  “The one thing the boss taught me personally is you’ve got
to get in the arena and fight,” Cashman said. “Sometimes you
win the fight, sometimes you lose the fight. You get knocked
down, but you’ve got to pick yourself up and keep fighting.”  -- With assistance from  Eben Novy-Williams  and  Mason Levinson  in
New York and  Dex McLuskey  in Dallas. Editors:  Rob Gloster ,  Dex McLuskey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Michele Steele  in New York at 
 msteele10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup in New York at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  