-- Coal Imports May Rise 78% to China, India, Drive Up Prices: Energy Markets
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-12-14T12:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/coal-imports-may-rise-78-to-china-india-drive-up-prices-energy-markets.html
China and India may increase imports
of coal by 78 percent to 337 million metric tons next year,
further driving up prices from the highest in two years and
diverting supplies from Europe to Asia.  China  may buy 233 million tons more of the fuel than it
exports next year, up from net imports of 143 million in 2010,
Citigroup Inc. said in a Nov. 29 report. India faces a shortfall
of 104 million tons in the 12 months ending March 2012,
mjunction Services Ltd., a Kolkata-based commodity trader, said
in a note on Dec. 6, citing Coal Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal .  Asia’s two fastest-growing major  economies  are burning more
of the fuel as economic expansion raises demand for electricity.
The International Monetary Fund forecasts that China’s  gross
domestic product  will next year expand 9.6 percent and India 8.4
percent. China added about 51 gigawatts of coal-fired capacity
last year, more than half the total capacity of the U.K.,
according to data from Daiwa Capital Markets and the U.S. Energy
Department.  “All the indications are for increased demand in 2011,”
 Andrew Harrington , an analyst at Patersons Securities Ltd. in
Sydney, said in a Dec. 9 interview. “China has become much more
important especially because of the expectations that they will
be unable to meet their own needs from domestic supply.”  China’s appetite for the commodity sent benchmark domestic
prices at the port of  Qinhuangdao  to a two-year high of $129 a
ton for the week ended Nov. 26, according to data from IHS
McCloskey, a Petersfield, U.K.-based researcher.  Power-station fuel at the Australian port of  Newcastle , the
world’s biggest coal-export harbor, and South Africa’s  Richards
Bay  climbed to the highest since October 2008, according to data
compiled by IHS McCloskey on Bloomberg.  Supply ‘Constrained’  China will need 2 billion tons of coal over the next 10
years to fuel the country’s industrial development, the China
Securities Journal reported today, citing Dai Yande, deputy head
of China’s Energy Research Institute.  “The thermal-coal market will remain tight as strong
demand from emerging markets, particularly China and India,
drives record levels of imports,” said  Daniel Brebner  and  Xiao Fu , London-based analysts at Deutsche Bank AG. “Supply is
anticipated to be constrained in key producing regions such as
China, Indonesia and Australia.”  Prices at Australia’s Newcastle port, a benchmark for Asia,
rose to $114.50 a ton in the week ended Dec. 10, according to
IHS McCloskey.  Export prices at Richards Bay Coal Terminal gained $2.89 to
an average $110 a ton in the week to Dec. 10, IHS McCloskey data
showed. Benchmark European coal derivatives closed at $113 a ton
yesterday, the highest closing price this year. Coal for
delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp with settlement next
year fell $1.50 to $111.50 a ton as of 11:52 a.m. London time.  Indonesia Prices  The Indonesian government raised the reference price for
sales in December by 8.3 percent from a month earlier, the
steepest gain since it was introduced in February, the energy
ministry said Dec. 8. The price benchmark for the fuel with a
gross energy value of 6,322 kilocalories a kilogram increased to
$103.41 a ton this month, according to the Directorate General
of Coal and Minerals.  Coal use in  Asia  climbed 6.4 percent last year, more than a
0.8 percent increase in oil consumption, according to BP Plc.  Prices have also surged because of supply disruptions from
heavy rain and flooding at mines in Indonesia, Colombia and
Australia, while South Africa’s export growth has been crimped
by a lack of rail capacity.  Xstrata Plc , the world’s largest exporter of thermal coal,
has declared force majeure on some Australian shipments on Dec.
7 because of flooding of mines. PT Bumi Resources, Indonesia’s
largest coal producer, revised down its coal output target by 6
percent this year as heavy rains hampered mining, Director
 Dileep Srivastava  said Nov. 11.  South Africa’s Share  Such disruptions have prompted South Africa and Colombia to
divert supplies from traditional markets in Europe to higher-
paying Asia.  South Africa accounted for about 30 percent of India’s
thermal coal imports this year, according to ministry data.
Shipments in the first nine months of this year increased 16
percent to 15.2 million tons, while  China’s purchases  surged to
5.1 million tons until October compared with 1.52 million tons
it imported for the entire 2009, according to mjunction
Services, which is backed by Tata Steel Ltd. and Steel Authority
of India Ltd., and Chinese customs data.  “Robust Chinese coal demand and import growth will
continue throughout 2011,”  Jeffrey Landsberg , president of New
York-based Commodore Research & Consultancy, said Dec. 10 in an
e-mailed response to questions. “China still has many decades
left to develop. Only a fraction of the population, and really
just the eastern part of the nation, has experienced profound
growth. The rest of the country needs to develop as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  