-- Confidence at U.S. Small Companies Increases to Three-Year High
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-12-14T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/confidence-at-u-s-small-companies-increases-to-three-year-high.html
Confidence among U.S. small
businesses rose in November to the highest level since the
recession began three years ago as more companies projected the
economy and sales will improve, a private survey found.  The National Federation of Independent Business’s optimism
 index  increased to 93.2, the highest since December 2007, from
an October reading of 91.7. Seven of the index’s 10 components
rose and three declined. The measure averaged 100.7 during the
previous expansion.  A brighter outlook for the world’s largest economy means
small-business owners may pick up the pace of hiring after the
jobless rate reached a seven-month high. With more businesses
expecting higher sales, the survey also signals an increase in
 consumer spending , which accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  “It was encouraging to see substantial improvement in
expectations for economic performance, critical if spending and
hiring are to elevate beyond survival and replacement levels,”
 William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said in a
statement. “Plans to hire, make capital outlays and invest in
inventories all rose, albeit from historically low levels.”  The gauge of expectations for better business conditions
six months from now rose to the highest level since June 2005,
jumping 8 points to 16 percent in November, the report showed.  Increasing optimism amongst small businesses parallels
gains in shares. The  Russell 2000  Index of small U.S. companies
has risen 28 percent since Aug. 31, compared with an 18 percent
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  More Bankers  This outperformance has increased investors’ confidence in
smaller companies and those that cater to them.  Bank of America
Corp. , the largest U.S. bank by assets, in October said it plans
to hire 1,000 employees in the next year to focus on companies
with sales of $3 million or less.  Citigroup Inc. , which claims 2,500 of the world’s 3,000
largest corporations as clients, is also targeting U.S.
companies with less than $20 million of annual sales. The New
York-based bank said it plans to hire about 200 employees by the
end of 2011 to court them. That would bring the number of small-
business bankers to about 500, or one for every two North
American branches.  The measure of hiring plans over the next three months rose
three points to a net 4 percent, according to the NFIB report.
Nine percent of businesses said they intend in increase staff,
up one percentage point from the prior month. Fewer indicated
they plan to cut payrolls, with 12 percent anticipating
workforce reductions, down from 13 percent in October.  Payroll Gains  Small companies have added jobs in every month since March,
including a 54,000 gain in November, according to ADP Employer
Services in Roseland, New Jersey, and St. Louis-based
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC.  A gauge of whether small firms think this is a good time to
expand increased two points to a net 9 percent, today’s survey
said. Plans for capital investment over the next few months rose
two points to 20 percent. A net zero percent plan to add to
inventories, up four points from November.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
giving a positive response and adjusting the results for
seasonal variations.  The net share of owners projecting higher sales, adjusted
for inflation, increased five points to 6 percent, the highest
since April.  Not ‘Supportive’  At the same time, the sales trends are not yet “supportive
of a widespread recovery in the small business sector even if a
bit stronger than October,” Dunkelberg said. Weak sales
continued to be businesses’ top problem, with 30 percent of
respondents listing it as their main concern.  “The historically high percent of owners who cite weak
sales means that, for many owners, investments in new equipment
or new workers are not likely to pay back,” Dunkelberg said.
“This is a major cause of the lack of credit demand observed in
financial markets.”  Ninety-one percent of small businesses reported that their
credit needs were met or that they were not interested in
borrowing, the report showed. Banks have further eased standards
and terms on some types of business and household loans in the
past three months, according to a Federal Reserve survey of
senior loan officers, released Nov. 8.  The NFIB’s index of earnings trends fell by four points to
minus 30 percent.  Cutting Prices  Limited demand continued to keep inflation at bay. October
was the 24th straight month that showed more small business
owners cutting average selling prices than raising them.  Private payrolls jumped by 50,000 workers in November, less
than forecast and the least since January, while the  jobless 
rate rose to 9.8 percent, Labor Department figures showed on
Dec. 3.  The NFIB report was based on 807 small-business owners
surveyed through Nov. 30. Small businesses represent more than
99 percent of all U.S. employers and have created 65 percent of
all new jobs in the past 17 years, according to the  U.S. Small
Business Administration . A small business is defined as an
independent enterprise employing up to 500 people.  To contact the report on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  