-- HCP to Buy Real Estate Assets From HCR ManorCare in $6.1 Billion Agreement
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-12-14T15:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/hcp-agrees-to-acquire-hcr-manorcare-healthcare-properties-for-6-1-billion.html
HCP Inc ., the biggest U.S. health-
care real estate investment trust by market value, agreed to buy
338 properties from Carlyle Group’s HCR ManorCare Inc. for $6.1
billion in the nation’s largest REIT deal in three years.  The price includes $3.53 billion in cash, $1.72 billion
reinvested from the payoff of HCP’s existing debt investments in
HCR and $852 million in stock, Long Beach, California-based HCP
said in a statement yesterday. Carlyle, based in Washington,
bought Manor Care Inc. for an announced $6.3 billion in 2007.  The acquisition, HCP’s biggest in at least a decade, will
add to the company’s existing 670 properties in 42 states. The
additional homes, comprising post-acute, nursing and assisted-
living facilities, will generate rent of $472.5 million in the
first year, HCP said. The U.S. has the highest per capita
health-care spending among 11 industrialized nations surveyed by
the New York-based Commonwealth Fund in a report last month.  “We view Manor Care as HCP’s white whale,”  Robert Mains 
and Chad Vanacore, analysts with Morgan Keegan & Co. in Saratoga
Springs, New York, wrote in a note today. “CEO Jay Flaherty has
long indicated an interest in investing in premier nursing-home
assets, and Manor Care represents such an operator.”  The HCR properties are in 30 states, including Ohio,
Pennsylvania, Florida, Illinois and Michigan, according to the
statement. HCP currently owns 250 senior housing facilities.  Health-Care Industry  HCP  gained  $1.13, or 3.5 percent, to $33.65 at 10:11 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares climbed
6.5 percent this year through yesterday,  while  the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 11 percent. The shares trade at about 15
times estimated funds from operations for 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with about 17 times
for  Ventas Inc. , the second-largest U.S. health-care REIT.  There were 167 acquisitions announced in the U.S. medical
nursing home industry in the past 10 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average deal size was $320 million.  Health care is the single-largest industry in the U.S.
based on gross domestic product, HCP said on its  website . The
company said health-related expenditures are projected to
increase 5.1 percent this year, citing a National Health
Expenditures report in January.  Eighth-Largest REIT  HCP is the eighth-biggest U.S. real estate investment trust
by  market value  and the largest that invests in health-care
properties, Bloomberg data show.  HCR and its affiliates will continue to run the facilities
under a long-term lease supported by a guaranty from HCR, the
statement said. The agreement includes an increase in rent each
year and it gives HCP an option to buy a 9.9 percent stake in
HCR for an additional $95 million.  HCP had “on-again, off-again” talks with Toledo, Ohio-
based HCR for more than a year, Chairman and Chief Executive  Jay Flaherty  said on a conference call today. “Things just kind of
came together” in the last couple of weeks, he said.  Adding to FFO  The deal will boost full-year  funds from operations  by 47
cents a share, he said. Funds from operations, a cash-flow
measure used by REITs, exclude depreciation and other items.  “This transaction has significant positive implications
for HCP,” Flaherty said on the call. “This is just a wonderful
acquisition opportunity.”  UBS AG, Citigroup Inc., Wells Fargo & Co., Bank of America
Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to provide a $3.3 billion
bridge loan to help pay for the transaction, HCP said today in a
regulatory filing.  HCP will have an interest rate starting at 2 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate, a credit
agreement attached to the filing shows. The margin over Libor,
the rate banks charge to lend to each other, rises every 90 days
by 0.5 percentage point to as high as 3.5 percentage points.  The banks’ commitments to fund the bridge loan and
outstanding borrowings will be reduced by debt or equity
offerings, HCP said. Bridge facilities are short-term loans that
usually mature in one year and are replaced with bond offerings
or longer-dated bank debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 