-- HCP Rises on Expected Earnings Boost From $6.1 Billion Acquisition of HCR
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-12-14T21:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/hcp-shares-advance-on-projected-earnings-boost-from-two-planned-purchases.html
HCP Inc ., the biggest U.S. health-
care real estate investment trust by market value, rose in New
York trading on expectations of added earnings from two planned
purchases announced yesterday.  HCP said late yesterday it would pay $6.1 billion for 338
nursing homes from Carlyle Group’s HCR ManorCare Inc. in the
largest REIT deal in three years. The company also agreed
yesterday to buy out a joint venture partner’s 65 percent
interest in a portfolio of 25 senior housing properties for $560
million, including $423 million of debt, according to documents
on the Long Beach, California-based REIT’s  website .  The HCR ManorCare deal is HCP’s largest acquisition in at
least a decade. The two transactions will increase the company’s
full-year  funds  from operations by 51 cents a share, according
to the website presentation. Funds from operations, a cash-flow
measure used by REITs, exclude depreciation and other items.  “It’s just a very accretive deal the way the company sees
it playing out right now,”  David Aubuchon , an analyst at Robert
W. Baird & Co. in St. Louis, said in a telephone interview. “At
least initially, it seems like the view has been positive.”  HCP  gained  44 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $32.96 at 4:05 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It rose as much as
4.6 percent earlier today, the biggest intraday increase since
June 10. The shares have climbed 7.9 percent this year,  trailing 
the 11 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The HCR ManorCare price includes $3.53 billion in cash,
$1.72 billion reinvested from the payoff of HCP’s existing debt
investments in HCR ManorCare and $852 million in stock, HCP said
in a statement yesterday. Carlyle, based in Washington, bought
Manor Care Inc. for an announced $6.3 billion in 2007.  Nursing Facilities  The HCR ManorCare acquisition will add to the company’s
existing 670 properties in 42 states. The additional homes,
comprising post-acute, nursing and assisted-living facilities,
will generate rent of $472.5 million in the first year, HCP
said. The deal will boost full-year funds from operations by 47
cents a share, Chairman and Chief Executive  Jay Flaherty  said on
a conference call today.  The “deals appear to be game changers,”  Robert Mains  and
Chad Vanacore, analysts with Morgan Keegan & Co. in Saratoga
Springs, New York, wrote in a note today. While HCP already is
the largest health-care REIT, “we expect it to be one of the
fastest-growing,” with long-term growth in funds from
operations of 4 percent to 6 percent, Mains and Vanacore wrote.  The U.S. has the highest per capita health-care spending
among 11 industrialized nations surveyed by the New York-based
Commonwealth Fund in a report last month.  30 States  The HCR ManorCare properties are in 30 states, including
Ohio, Pennsylvania, Florida, Illinois and Michigan, according to
the statement. HCP currently owns 250 senior housing facilities.  There were 167 acquisitions announced in the U.S. medical
nursing home industry in the past 10 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average deal size was $320 million.  Health care is the single-largest industry in the U.S.
based on gross domestic product, HCP said on its  website .
Health-related spending is projected to increase 5.1 percent
this year, the company said, citing a National Health
Expenditures report from January.  HCP is the eighth-biggest U.S. real estate investment trust
by  market value  and the largest that invests in health-care
properties, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its shares
trade at about 15 times estimated funds from operations for
2010. That compares with about 17 times for Chicago-based  Ventas
Inc. , the second-largest U.S. health-care REIT.  HCR ManorCare and its affiliates will continue to run the
facilities under a long-term lease supported by a guaranty from
the company, according to HCP’s statement. The agreement
includes an increase in rent each year and gives HCP the option
to buy a 9.9 percent stake in HCR ManorCare for $95 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 