-- Crude Oil Trades Near Four-Day High as Cold Weather to Spur Fuel Demand]
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-14T13:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/crude-oil-trades-near-four-day-high-as-cold-weather-to-spur-fuel-demand-.html
Oil traded near $90 a barrel in New
York on forecasts that U.S.  crude stockpiles  are declining as
colder weather approaches the nation.  Inventories probably dropped to the lowest since July 9,
according to a Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s Energy
Department report. Heating oil futures were near a two-day high
after forecasts of colder-than-normal weather in parts of the
Midwest, Southeast and mid-Atlantic through Dec. 27. Crude rose
on speculation China’s decision to keep its benchmark interest
rate unchanged will buoy demand for commodities.  “Fundamentally the ongoing cold snap is supportive, though
supplies are ample,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst with
VTB Capital in London. “In the short run, there is no reason to
expect tightness. Trading ranges are still intact in New York
and London, so the mood is moderately bullish.”  The January contract was at $88.54 a barrel, down 7 cents,
in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange at
1:41 p.m. London time. Prices have risen 12 percent this year.
Brent crude for January settlement was up 17 cents at $91.36 a
barrel on the ICE Futures exchange in London.  Crude prices may rise above $100 a barrel by the second
half of next year as U.S. demand recovers and global inventories
decline, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in its 2011 commodities
outlook, dated yesterday.  Fed Repurchases  The dollar traded near a one-week low against the yen amid
speculation that the Federal Reserve will signal it’s open to
increasing debt purchases beyond the $600 billion already
announced. The Fed’s policy makers are scheduled to meet today.  “Ultimately a weaker dollar is generally supportive of
commodities because it makes it cheaper for places like China,”
said  Mark Keenan , chief investment officer at Cubit Asset
Management Pte in Singapore. “With the government trying to
rein in activity in China, maybe that effect will be a little
muted this time.”  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 10:30 a.m. on Dec. 15 in Washington. The industry-
funded American Petroleum Institute will publish its own
estimates today.  Florida declared a state of emergency amid severe cold that
could damage crops, and a snowstorm battered the Midwest.
Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, probably slipped 1 million barrels from 160.2
million, according to Bloomberg’s survey.  U.S.  crude stockpiles  probably dropped to the lowest since
July 9, according to the median of 11 analysts’ estimates before
tomorrow’s report. Oil inventories fell 2.6 million barrels in
the seven days to Dec. 10, the survey showed. U.S. gasoline
inventories probably increased for a fourth week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  