-- Crude Oil Trades Near Four-Day High as Cold Weather to Spur Fuel Demand
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-12-14T07:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/crude-oil-trades-near-four-day-high-as-cold-weather-to-spur-fuel-demand.html
Oil traded near a four-day high,
erasing today’s losses, as a cold spell in the U.S. boosted
optimism heating fuel demand will increase.  Heating oil futures were near a two-day high after
forecasts that colder-than-normal weather is likely in parts of
the Midwest, Southeast and mid-Atlantic through Dec. 27. Crude
also rose as China kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged,
increasing confidence among investors that the nation will
maintain demand for commodities.  “A weaker dollar and stronger equities helped to buoy WTI
and China keeping its interest rates flat did not hurt either,”
Stephen Schork, president of Group Inc. in Villanova,
Pennsylvania, said in a note to clients.  The January contract was at $88.74 a barrel, up 13 cents,
in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange at
3:42 p.m. Singapore time. Prices have risen 12 percent this
year.  Florida declared a state of emergency amid severe cold that
could damage crops, and a snowstorm battered the Midwest. U.S.
gasoline inventories probably increased for a fourth week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before an Energy Department
report tomorrow.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S.  crude stockpiles  probably dropped to the lowest since
July 9, according to the median of 11 analysts’ estimates before
tomorrow’s energy report.  Oil inventories fell 2.6 million barrels in the seven days
to Dec. 10, the survey showed. Supplies of distillate fuel, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, probably slipped
1 million barrels from 160.2 million.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 10:30 a.m. on Dec. 15 in Washington. The industry-
funded American Petroleum Institute will publish its own
estimates today.  The dollar traded near a one-week low against the yen amid
speculation that the Federal Reserve will signal it’s open to
increasing debt purchases beyond the $600 billion already
announced. The Fed’s policy makers are scheduled to meet today.  “Ultimately a weaker dollar is generally supportive of
commodities because it makes it cheaper for places like China,”
said  Mark Keenan , chief investment officer at Cubit Asset
Management Pte in Singapore. “With the government trying to
rein in activity in China, maybe that effect will be a little
muted this time.”  Crude prices may rise above $100 a barrel by the second
half of next year as U.S. demand recovers and global inventories
decline, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in its 2011 commodities
outlook, dated yesterday.  Brent crude for January settlement was at $91.35 a barrel,
up 16 cents, on the ICE Futures exchange in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  