-- Democrats Are Right to Attack Obama Tax-Cut Deal: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2010-12-14T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/democrats-are-right-to-attack-obama-s-tax-deal-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Liberal Democrats are attacking not
only the rates in the White House-Republican tax-cut compromise
but also the plans for Social Security. The deal would trim the
payroll tax to 4.2 percent from 6.2 percent for one year.  This reduction is supposed to stimulate growth. These
Democrats don’t care. They don’t want to mess with the
retirement program.  “This is a grand plan of starving Social Security so you
can then privatize Social Security,” Representative  Jackie Speier , a Democrat from California, said Dec. 10. “I’m very
disappointed. He’s out-Bushed Bush.”  She is right, though not in the way she means. The payroll
tax break of 2011 encapsulates what’s wrong with our entire tax
system. This one piece of the compromise plan also explains why
growth after next year is likely to be weaker, not higher, than
the current optimistic predictions.  The problem is the nature of that growth. In the past
century both parties and the economists behind them have focused
on the business cycle, their theory being that for the country
to grow, that cycle must be managed, preferably by them. But
economic growth requires something else: trust that deals and
contracts will be honored by all, including governments.
Pensions are contracts, even public pensions like Social
Security.  Hard-core property rights lawyers would reject the idea of
Social Security being a contract. They see the program as a
government mugging dressed up as a contract. Nonetheless, the
framers of Social Security, including President  Franklin Roosevelt , viewed the benefit contractually. In various drafting
discussions, Roosevelt talked about Social Security as a
pension, or an annuity, not a tax arrangement.  Public Faith  The program is grand because it is the original, the
showcase contract between Americans and their government. The
New Deal itself used contract as a theme. That is why the New
Deal was called the New Deal and not, the “New Demand
Management Payment.”  When a showcase contract like Social Security is
compromised, citizens’ faith in other contracts, public or
private, begins to fray. Their willingness to invest or hire
weakens.  Roosevelt and others doubtless believed that the Social
Security contract complemented their plans to make the business
cycle less bumpy. After all, in the 1930s, millions of elderly
in the U.S. languished in poverty. Feeding them was smoothing
the business cycle in the most crucial way.  When Payments Began  But in 1937, the first year of Social Security’s
implementation, that strategy was challenged. That’s when
Americans began making payments into the system; the
government’s take amounted to 2 percent when you include the
employer side. As  Francois Velde , an economist at the Federal
Reserve Bank of Chicago, pointed out in a  paper  published in the
fourth quarter 2009, the amount taken represented 10 percent of
all federal receipts that year.  Next, came the Depression within the Depression of 1937 and
1938, in which industrial production dropped a third in six
months and unemployment moved into the high teens.  Other forces were far more important in causing that Double
Dip. One was monetary and banking policy, another was
Washington’s hostility to business. (Roosevelt actually told the
country that he would prove to Wall Street that he was “their
master.”)  Cool Tool  But the sequence of the Social Security tax followed by
recession made a deep impression. American leaders’ takeaway
from the mistake of 1937 was that the payroll tax was a nifty
tool for demand management. They liked the thoughts of  Marriner Eccles , the Fed Chairman. Eccles believed that Social Security’s
payment schedules should be so flexible so that authorities
might raise it during strong growth, to prevent “overheating,”
and lower it during recessionary periods.  That playing with the heads of taxpayers in this way might
be disconcerting didn’t seem to occur to anyone. The payroll tax
cut for 2011 takes the idea of Social Security as fiscal tool to
Eccles-level extremes.  The retirement system faces long-term shortfalls,
regardless of growth. Our economy is not, currently, shrinking.
If in a non-crisis our leaders are willing to widen that Social
Security debt by one penny, then, logically, they will be
willing to trash the program more dramatically should a 1930s-
style double dip take place.  They will also be willing to adjust other contracts, even
private ones. In its Social Security component the new tax deal
honors the precedent set when the federal government sacrificed
bondholders and creditors to unions in the recent auto bailouts.
It seems any deal or promise is subordinate to servicing the
general economy and its managers.  Low Expectations  One might argue that when it comes to Social Security
nothing is lost since the program was already a joke to most
Americans. Younger people expect no payout anyhow. So, the
argument goes, the policy now should be to get the economy
growing through reform, tax and other changes to the retirement
system, and only later to rebuild American trust in our
institutions.  But that is backward. Enduring growth comes when there is
more trust in contracts. Certainly foreign investors, who buy
bonds and currency, view the U.S. that way.  Social Security is a relatively easy fix, as contracts go;
it could be put back in balance in an afternoon. To do that
would be to send an important signal that other imbalances will
be addressed.  The latest tax-rate compromise sends no such signal. It
therefore jeopardizes U.S. growth in the longer run.  ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 