-- Dollar Weakens as Fed Meets; U.S. Futures Fluctuate, Copper, Cotton Rally
-- B y   A n d r e w   R u m m e r
-- 2010-12-14T10:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/dollar-weakens-on-speculation-fed-to-signal-increase-in-debt-purchase-plan.html
The dollar depreciated to a three-
week low against the euro on speculation the Federal Reserve may
buy more bonds to bolster the economy, while stocks and U.S.
futures were little changed. Copper and cotton gained as Spanish
and Portuguese bonds dropped.  The dollar weakened to $1.3461 per euro at 10:31 a.m. in
London, from $1.3391 yesterday. Taiwan’s dollar touched a 13-
year high versus the U.S. currency. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds instead of benchmark German
debt widened to a two-week high after yields increased at a bill
auction. Cotton jumped 3.4 percent and copper rose 0.2 percent.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fluctuated between
gains and losses of less than 0.2 percent and the Stoxx Europe
600 Index fell 0.2 percent following a six-day gain.  Fed policy makers meeting today may signal a willingness to
boost debt purchases beyond the $600 billion already announced
to spur job growth. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
told CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” on Dec. 5 that the recovery may
not be self-sustaining and more bond buying is “certainly
possible.” The European Central Bank increased its bond
purchases to 2.67 billion euros ($3.6 billion) last week, the
highest in 23 weeks.  The dollar is down because of “the expectation for the Fed
to reiterate its enthusiasm for future quantitative easing
measures,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund sales
at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “The surprise to the forex market
would be if the Fed goes quiet on further QE measures ahead.”  Taiwan Dollar  The dollar depreciated as much as 0.8 percent against the
euro, touching the weakest level since Nov. 23. It slipped 0.1
percent to 83.28 yen. Taiwan’s dollar strengthened as much as
2.3 percent against the U.S. currency, reaching its highest
level since October 1997. The yield on 10-year U.S.  Treasuries 
climbed two basis points to 3.29 percent.  The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight loans
between banks at a record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008. Moody’s Investors Service Inc. yesterday
said President  Barack Obama ’s agreement to extend tax cuts
raises the chance of a negative outlook for the U.S.’s Aaa
credit rating.  The yield on the 10-year  Spanish bond  rose nine basis
points to 5.58 percent after the nation raised less than its 3
billion-euro maximum target at a sale of 12-month and 18-month
bills, and yields increased. The difference in yield, or spread,
to benchmark German bunds increased eight basis points to 256
basis points, the most since Dec. 1. Italian 10-year yields
climbed two basis points to 4.61 percent as Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  won a confidence vote in the Senate before
facing another vote in the lower house.  Swaps Decline  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
insuring the junior debt of 25 banks and insurers fell 8.5 basis
points to 317.5, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The gauge
climbed this week to the highest level since April 2009 on
speculation bondholders will have to share in bank bailout
costs.  Cotton increased 5 cents, the maximum allowed by ICE
Futures U.S. in New York, to $1.4597 a pound and copper gained
as much as $35 to $9,260 a metric ton on speculation demand will
increase in China, the largest buyer of both commodities.
Orange-juice futures yesterday jumped to a three-year high on
forecasts for cold in Florida, the world’s largest citrus
producer after Brazil. Trading opens at 1 p.m. London time.  U.S. Index Futures  Futures on the  S&P 500  expiring in March rose less than 0.1
percent before a report that may show U.S. retail sales advanced
0.6 percent in November after climbing 1.2 percent in October,
according to the  median estimate  of economists in a Bloomberg
survey. HCP Inc. may be active after the company, the biggest
U.S. health-care real estate investment trust by market value,
agreed to pay $6.1 billion for 338 nursing homes from HCR
ManorCare Inc.  Two stocks fell for each one that gained in Europe’s Stoxx
600 even after the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said its  index of German investor and analyst
expectations , which aims to predict developments six months
ahead, increased to 4.3 in December from 1.8 last month,
exceeding economists’ forecasts. Outokumpu Oyj sank 6.1 percent
after the Finnish stainless-steel maker said fourth-quarter
operating profit will be “clearly negative.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose for a second day,
climbing 0.5 percent. Shipbuilders led the advance after South
Korea’s  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. , the world’s largest
producer, and STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. announced orders
worth about $1.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Rummer  in London at 
 arummer@bloombert.met   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 