-- Treasuries Decline, Stocks Gain After Fed's Statement, Retail-Sales Report
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2010-12-15T00:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/dollar-weakens-as-fed-meets-u-s-futures-fluctuate-spanish-bonds-decline.html
Treasuries slid, sending 10-year
 yields  to the highest level since May, and U.S. stocks rose for
a sixth day after the Federal Reserve maintained plans to
stimulate the economy and data on American retail sales and
business inventories bolstered optimism in the recovery.  Ten-year Treasury yields increased 20 basis points to 3.47
percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 0.1 percent,
extending its longest rally since July while paring an advance
of 0.5 percent amid concern increasing bond yields will lead to
higher borrowing costs. The  Dollar Index  erased earlier losses
to rise 0.2 percent and the S&P GSCI commodities index fell 0.3
percent. After the U.S. close, S&P 500 futures slid 0.1 percent
at 7 p.m. in New York while Japanese stocks were little changed.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose to its highest level
since before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in
September 2008 as the Fed kept its plan to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June in a second round of quantitative easing,
known as “QE2” among investors. The 0.8 percent growth in
 retail sales  and smaller-than-forecast rise in business
inventories added to signs the economy is gaining strength.  “The bond market has run its course and it seems to me
that it’s a better environment for stocks,” said  Don Wordell , a
fund manager for Atlanta-based RidgeWorth Capital Management,
which oversees about $62 billion. “There’s really not much in
the Fed statement to worry about. They are doing the right thing
by keeping QE2 because the economy is growing moderately.”  The S&P 500 has rallied about 19 percent since Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke signaled in August that he was prepared to pump
more cash into the economy in order to fuel growth. The central
bank in November announced its program to purchase $600 billion
in Treasuries and today maintained the plan that will expand
record monetary stimulus.  ‘Stronger Pace’  The purchases will “promote a stronger pace of economic
recovery” and keep prices stable “over time,” the Federal
Open Market Committee said in a statement today in Washington.
Unemployment is too high, the central bank said, as it repeated
its pledge to leave the benchmark interest rate low for an
“ extended  period.”  The  30-year  Treasury yield climbed 12 basis points to a
seven-month high of 4.53 percent and the two-year yield advanced
seven basis points to 0.65 percent. The extra yield investors
demand to hold 10-year notes over 2-year debt was 282 basis
points, the highest since April, on speculation President Barack
Obama’s agreement to extend tax cuts will win passage in
Congress, supporting growth and stoking inflation.  ‘Not Going To Be Pretty’  “It’s not going to be pretty if yields continue to move
higher,” said  Noman Ali , part of a group that manages $3
billion of U.S. equities at MFC Global Investment Management Inc.
in Toronto. “The bond market is telling the Fed, ‘You need to
be a little more cautious because we don’t want inflation.”  AT&T Inc., Kraft Foods Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.
climbed at least 1.6 percent to lead the Dow up 47.98 points, or
0.4 percent, to 11,476.54 for its highest close since Sept. 8,
2008.  Gains in the S&P 500 were paced by health-care companies as
Amgen Inc. jumped 4.9 percent after the biotechnology company’s
denosumab delayed the spread of prostate cancer to men’s bones
in a study that may boost sales by $2 billion a year. Best Buy
Co. lost 15 percent, the most in eight years, as its profit
forecast trailed analyst estimates amid weaker demand for
televisions and electronic gadgets.  Retail Sales  The gain in U.S. retail purchases followed a 1.7 percent
increase in October that was larger than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.6 percent rise.
Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are the
figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales climbed
0.9 percent, the most since August.  Equities  extended  gains in early trading after a separate
report showed inventories at U.S. businesses rose a less-than-
forecast 0.7 percent in October as merchants had trouble keeping
up with surging demand. Other data showed producer prices
increased 0.8 percent in November from the prior month, the most
in eight months. Core prices, which exclude food and energy,
rose 1.2 percent from a year earlier, the smallest gain in five
months.  Confidence among U.S. small businesses rose in November to
the highest level since the recession began three years ago as
more companies projected the economy and sales will improve, a
private survey found. The National Federation of Independent
Business’s optimism index increased to 93.2, the highest since
December 2007, from an October reading of 91.7.  Fed Rates  The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight loans
between banks at a record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008. Moody’s Investors Service Inc. yesterday
said President  Barack Obama ’s agreement to extend tax cuts
raises the chance of a negative outlook for the U.S.’s Aaa
credit rating.  The dollar weakened against 11 of 16 major counterparts,
losing at least 0.4 percent versus the Swedish krona, South
Korean won and Swiss franc.  “The announcement from Moody’s is certainly taking some of
the confidence out of the recent dollar rally,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in London. “It heightened concern of any potential
negative spillover impact on the dollar from the unsustainably
elevated fiscal position.”  European Bonds  The yield on the 10-year  Spanish bond  rose three basis
points to 5.45 percent after the nation raised less than its 3
billion-euro maximum target at a sale of 12-month and 18-month
bills, and yields increased.  Belgian government bonds fell, pushing the yield on the 10-
year securities seven basis points higher to 4.01 percent, after
S&P cut the outlook on the nation’s AA+ credit rating to
negative from stable because the country’s political stalemate
makes it vulnerable to rising borrowing costs. Italian 10-year
yields climbed three basis points to 4.58 percent as Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  survived a vote of no-confidence in
his government, winning votes in the Senate and lower house.  The European Central Bank increased its bond purchases to
2.67 billion euros ($3.6 billion) last week, the highest in 23
weeks.  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S. fell
for a tenth straight trading day, the longest streak since
October 2006. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.5 basis points
to a mid-price of 85.96 basis points as of 4:38 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Cotton Rallies  Cotton futures rose to a one-month high, climbing 2.5
percent to settle at $1.4449 a pound in New York, on concern
that global supplies will lag behind demand and India’s output
may be lower than estimated. Oil slipped 0.4 percent to $88.28 a
barrel in New York and copper retreated from a record in London.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of stocks erased earlier losses
and rose 0.2 percent as Air France-KLM Group and Deutsche
Lufthansa AG advanced after Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded the
airlines. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said its  index of German investor and analyst
expectations  increased to 4.3 in December from 1.8 last month,
exceeding economists’ forecasts.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose for a second day,
climbing 0.5 percent. Shipbuilders led the advance after South
Korea’s  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. , the world’s largest
producer, and STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. announced orders
worth about $1.6 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 