-- Euro Drops After Moody's Says Spain on Review for Downgrade; Dollar Gains
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-12-15T21:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/dollar-falls-as-federal-reserve-keeps-buying-debt-cutting-currency-demand.html
The dollar rose against most of its
major counterparts as a possible downgrade of Spain’s credit
rating rekindled concern the euro zone’s financial crisis is
spreading, spurring demand for the safety of the U.S. currency.  The greenback rose against the euro as U.S. data showed a
recovering economy with historically low inflation. The dollar
pared gains from the most against the yen in three months as
investors unwound positions. The Canadian dollar rallied against
most of its major counterparts as industrial production in the
U.S. increased more than forecast in November.  “You still have the debt concerns in Europe, that’s what’s
weighing down on the euro,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S.
currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York.
“It’s the overall European situation and the uncertainty of how
it’s going to be resolved.”  The dollar strengthened 1.1 percent to $1.3235 per euro at
3:40 p.m. in New York, from $1.3378 yesterday. It rose 0.7
percent to 84.24 yen, after touching 84.51, the most since Sept.
24.  “It’s a position unwind and the dollar is benefitting by
default,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , a currency strategist at Bank
of America Corp. in New York.  The Dollar Index  rose as much as 1.2 percent to the highest
in three days. The index is used by ICE futures exchange to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners.  Global Flows  Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets totaled $27.6 billion in October compared with net buying
of $77.2 billion in September, the Treasury Department reported.
The dollar fell 3.8 percent versus the yen and 2.3 percent
versus the euro in October.  Concern Europe’s debt problems may be spreading to other
countries such as Spain drove the one-year cross-currency basis
swap between euros and dollars to minus 53 basis points today,
near a seven-month low of 55 basis points reached Nov. 30. A
negative swap rate signals that investors are willing to receive
reduced euro interest payments to obtain dollar-based financing.  As European Union leaders start a two-day summit in
Brussels tomorrow with the focus on a permanent crisis-fighting
system to be introduced in 2013, Moody’s Investors Services said
Spain’s credit rating may be cut from Aa1. The government is
preparing its final bond sale of the year tomorrow amid concern
it may follow Greece and Ireland in seeking a bailout.  Spain has to raise 170 billion euros next year, while
refinancing needs for its regions total 30 billion euros and for
banks around 90 billion euros, Moody’s estimated. It doesn’t see
a bailout as “likely.”  Summit Eve  “The Moody’s report, coming on the eve of the EU summit,
helped to make the euro’s move more muted,” said  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst in Washington at Travelex Global Business
Payments, a currency-exchange network.  The euro may rebound 11 percent versus dollar next year as
investors shun U.S. assets and drive bonds lower, according to
Citigroup Inc. The currency pair will follow trading patterns
from the 1970s, when the housing market experienced a decline
similar to the recent drop, and the 1990s, which also saw a
slump in the bond market.  “It’s a bearish U.S. asset dynamic led by the bond
market,” said  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief technical analyst. “This
period has a set-up that is amazingly like what we saw in the
‘70s, and is similar to what we saw around 1993.”  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is nicknamed, rose 0.3
percent to C$1.0032 against the dollar and surged 1.3 percent to
1.3288 per euro, the strongest since Dec. 3.  ‘Good for Canada’  “The Canadian dollar is benefitting from this buy North
America, sell North America mentality in the market at the
moment, with higher U.S. data, what’s good for the U.S. is
deemed good for Canada to a greater or lesser extent,” said
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank.  U.S. industrial production was helped by gains in
computers, home electronics and appliances, signaling factories
will support economic growth into next year.  The consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent after a 0.2
percent rise the prior month, the Labor Department said today in
Washington. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a gain of 0.2 percent.  Australian and New Zealand’s currencies fell for the first
time this week against the greenback as the yield advantage over
the U.S. for the South Pacific nations narrowed.  Treasury yields traded near seven-month highs after Federal
Reserve policy makers said yesterday the U.S. recovery is
continuing and refrained from expanding a $600 billion program
of debt purchases.  The  extra yield  investors get from buying Australia’s 10-
year government bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries reached 2.14
percentage points yesterday, the least since July 15. The 
premium  offered by three-year government debt in New Zealand
over the U.S. reached 3 percentage points yesterday, the
narrowest since April 26.  Australia’s currency fell 1.1 percent to 98.74 U.S. cents
and New Zealand’s dollar dropped 1.4 percent to 74.14 U.S.
cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net 
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  