-- Drug Cocktails for Cancer Get Streamlined U.S. Review
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-12-14T20:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/drug-cocktails-for-cancer-heart-disease-get-streamlined-review.html
Drug cocktails for cancer, heart
disease and other conditions may reach the U.S. market sooner
under new guidelines that let companies seek approval for a
combination of two or more medicines at the same time.  The path will be reserved for serious illnesses where a
combination therapy is needed to overcome resistance or weak
response to only one medicine, according to draft guidelines the
Food and Drug Administration released today. Previously, the
merit of each compound had to be first proven on its own.  Roche Holding AG ,  Novartis AG  and  Sanofi-Aventis SA  are
developing a new generation of medicines that work in tandem to
suppress cancer similar to how drug cocktails have fought AIDS
since the 1990s. A streamlined FDA review may shave five years
off development and improve treatment,  Ira Mellman , head of
cancer research at Roche’s Genentech unit, estimated this year.  “We expect increasing use of combinations,”  Janet Woodcock , director of the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research, said today at the  Partnering for Cures  meeting in New
York. “This isn’t just true of cancer. It’s going to be true of
many serious diseases.”  Scientists are focusing more on specific genes that
diseases target and identifying compounds that alter these
molecular pathways. Combining targeted therapies may make it
more difficult for diseases to evolve and resist treatment.  Combinations in Development  Roche, based in Basel, Switzerland, has a combination that
began safety tests in patients this year. New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. , Merck & Co. and AstraZeneca Plc are studying combinations.
Novartis, also of Basel, and London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc 
started two studies this year combining an experimental drug
from each company. Sanofi, of Paris, has licensed molecules that
may work together to fight cancer.  Patient groups urged the FDA to help speed development of
these products, Woodcock said. The draft guidelines lay out what
types of studies would support approval. The agency will accept
public  comments  until Feb. 14, and a final version may be
released within six months, Woodcock said.  While the guidelines may speed development of a combination
owned by one company or an existing partnership between
companies, they won’t eliminate challenges that often prevent
drugmakers from working together or with academic researchers,
according to  Michael Caligiuri , director of Ohio State
University’s Comprehensive Cancer Center in Columbus.  “Generally speaking when you’re co-developing agents, it
involves two companies and the biggest hurdle is the legal one,
not the scientific one,” Caligiuri said today in a telephone
interview. “That is very often a showstopper.”  Woodcock said that the agency “can open the door with
guidance but” companies developing drugs “have to want to do
this.”  Partnering for Cures  is sponsored by the Milken Institute’s
FasterCures nonprofit research organization in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in New York at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 