-- DSM’s $3.4 Billion Takeover Budget to Target Unknowns
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-12-14T14:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/dsm-chief-says-3-4-billion-takeover-budget-may-target-unknowns.html
Royal DSM NV Chief Financial Officer
 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb  said he’s confident the Dutch vitamin and
enzyme maker will make acquisitions and that a global search for
targets has yielded some relatively unknown assets.  “If you had insight into our list of potential targets,
you’d probably not know many names,” Chief Financial Officer
Rolf-Dieter Schwalb said on a call with journalists today. “We
look globally and see where we can conclude deals.”  DSM could spend as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.4
billion), excluding any capital increase, though a very large
acquisition is unlikely, Schwalb said.  The Dutch company completed a 1.2 billion-euro disposal
program today with the sale of a rubber-making unit to Lanxess
AG. DSM is seeking to expand in more profitable materials, such
as artificial fibers for Royal Philips Electronics NV and
ingredients for foodmakers including Nestle SA.  Earlier this month, DSM spent 48 million euros to buy 51
percent of AGI Corporation, a Taiwanese maker of ultraviolet
curable resins used for plastics.  “We’re not looking for acquisitions in completely new
areas, where we do not see a strategic fit to our nutrition,
performance materials and our emerging business areas,” Schwalb
told analysts on a call today. “We’re very confident we can
make acquisitions in our three areas.”  DSM, based in Heerlen, the Netherlands, rose 0.3 percent to
39.06 euros in Amsterdam as of 3:55 p.m. local time. With a 14
percent stock price jump this year, the company founded in 1902
as the Dutch State Mines, is valued at 7.4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  