-- Dubai Property May Slide for Another Two Years as Glut of Homes Increases
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-12-15T14:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/dubai-property-prices-may-continue-to-fall-for-two-years-as-supply-grows.html
Dubai property prices may drop for
the next two years, extending a decline in the Persian Gulf
sheikhdom that’s already cut values by more than 60 percent
since the 2008 peak.  Residential values may fall as much as 20 percent more by
the end of 2012 if new homes are built as planned, according to
broker  Landmark Advisory  in Dubai.  Cluttons LLP , a London-based
property consultant, and  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc ., the second-
largest publicly traded commercial property broker, also
forecast further declines.  About 48,000 homes will come on to the market in the next
two years, or about 12 percent of existing supply, according to
 Jesse Downs , director of research at Landmark. An influx of
foreign buyers sparked a construction boom as prices rose by 79
percent to mid-2008 from 2007 before the financial crisis caused
lenders to tighten credit and speculators left the market.  “There is still no parity between supply and demand,”
said  Paul Richard , associate director at Cluttons in Dubai,
which estimates that 35,000 homes will be completed through
2012. “You’re looking at a good two years” for Dubai’s market
to reach bottom, he said.  Craig Plumb , head of Middle East research at Jones Lang,
said prices are still falling and the rate and duration of the
decline will depend on the type of property. Hotels will recover
first and commercial properties last, he said in a telephone
interview.  Developers Slump  Emaar Properties PJSC , Dubai’s biggest developer and the
builder of the world’s tallest tower, reported a 7 percent drop
in third-quarter profit, missing analyst estimates, as costs and
writedowns increased. Construction firm  Arabtec Holding PJSC  saw
earnings slump 96 percent, while apartment and office builder
Deyaar Development PJSC reported a loss. Home prices fell 6
percent in the quarter from the previous three months, Colliers
International said on Nov. 7.  The  Dubai Financial Market Real Estate Index  dropped 1.6
percent today to its lowest close in more than three months.
 Emaar  fell the most with a 1.95 percent drop, closing at 3.52
dirhams, its lowest level since Sept. 5.  Almost half of Dubai’s planned real estate projects, from
offices to villas, were canceled as buyers defaulted and access
to funding became harder. Residents who lost their jobs had to
leave the country within 30 days, causing many to abandon their
cars and mortgages.  Bottomed Out  Emaar Chairman  Mohamed Alabbar  said last month that Dubai’s
market has bottomed out “without a doubt,” and “not much”
new housing supply is coming on the market.  Predictions of an end to the slump have proven overly
optimistic in the past. In May 2009,  Markus Giebel , then the
chief executive officer of Deyaar, said the property market
would bottom out that year. In the same month, Landmark Advisory
said home values may stop sliding in the fourth quarter of 2009.  “Without an influx of demand from outside the country,
forget about it,” Cluttons’s Richard said. He estimates that
home prices will drop 5 percent to 10 percent by next summer.  Attracting foreigners became more challenging after the
government changed residency rules last year. From 2002,
property ownership qualified the buyer for a five-year residency
visa that was easily renewed. That changed in May 2009, when new
United Arab Emirates regulations cut the length of residency
visas to six months and required holders to leave the country
and return for renewals, paying 2,000 dirhams ($546) per visa
each time.  New Rules  The law also says a property must be worth at least one
million dirhams and be large enough to accommodate the number of
people granted residency as a result. In addition, it requires
the buyer to have monthly income of no less than 10,000 dirhams
as well as medical insurance.  “The visa rules have been highly damaging and definitely
shattered people’s confidence,” said  Ludmila Yamalova , a
partner at law firm HPL Yamalova & Plewka JLT. “Many bought
property just because that would enable them to live here. They
had their five-year residency and built their lives around it.
Now they don’t have that security.”  Service fees charged by developers for maintenance of
common areas such as pools and gyms have discouraged potential
buyers interested in generating rental income, Cluttons’s
Richard said. The fees can cut a landlord’s return by almost
half.  Rent Pressure  Landmark Advisory’s  Downs  said new properties will drive
down rents, pushing values lower.  “Rents are very important because occupier demand leads
investor demand,” she said in an interview.  Downs predicts home prices will drop 15 percent to 20
percent by 2012 if the most residential buildings currently
under construction go onto the market as scheduled.  “If the pipeline is delayed, that will only prolong the
cycle,” she said. Properties won’t see renewed demand “until
prices come down further and buyers have greater certainty over
long-term rent yields.”  Dubai’s Real Estate Regulatory Agency is trying to limit
property supply, Chief Executive Officer  Marwan bin Ghalita ,
said yesterday. RERA has canceled 202 projects since the
beginning of 2009 and isn’t allowing developers to start new
ones without funding them in advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 