-- Dubai Government `Likely' to Sell Bonds in 2011 to Fund Budget, Saleh Says
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-12-14T10:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/dubai-government-likely-to-sell-bonds-in-2011-to-fund-budget-saleh-says.html
Dubai’s government is “likely” to
sell bonds next year with the size of the sales depending on its
spending needs, and a Malaysian offering is a possibility, the
director general of the emirate’s Department of Finance said.  “The outcome of the budget will really tell us how much we
need to raise,” said  Abdulrahman Al Saleh , who was also named
to holding company Dubai World’s new board on Dec. 12, in an
interview at his office in Dubai today. “We don’t need to raise
funds for refinancing” government debt, he said.  The Dubai government’s debt repayments due next year and in
2012 are not “significant,” Al Saleh said. In October it paid
an 800 million-dirham ($218 million) installment on a 2.3-
billion Islamic ijara loan that was due next year, he said.  State-owned Dubai World’s plan to freeze payments on $24.9
billion of debt roiled global markets last year. The Department
of Finance in September raised $1.25 billion from a bond sale
that received $5 billion in orders, its first sovereign
securities sale since the Dubai World crisis.  The emirate and its state-controlled companies ran up about
$112 billion of debt, according to Barclays Plc estimates, as it
sought to transform into a trade, financial-services and tourism
hub. Dubai’s government debt, excluding that of state-owned
companies, is $30 billion,  Mohammed Ibrahim al-Shaibani ,
director general of the ruler’s court, said on Nov. 28.  Malaysia Bonds  The government hired CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. as a lead
arranger to help sell Islamic bonds in Malaysia that may raise
between $1 billion and $1.5 billion, a person with knowledge of
the deal said on Nov. 24. The plan is still being discussed and
the timing of the sale hasn’t been decided, said the person.  “We already built our relations in Asia, specifically this
year was very successful for us,” said Al Saleh, who has been
director general since May 2009. “The Malaysian market is good.
We have good relations now with them and we see good
opportunities.”  Dubai’s government forecast a budget deficit of 5.99
billion dirhams for this year after cutting expenditures by 14.4
percent to 35.4 billion dirhams, according to its bond
prospectus published in September. Revenue was forecast to rise
3.5 percent in the year to 29.4 billion dirhams.  Rating Plan  Dubai is not seeking a credit rating now, Al Saleh said. It
began the process, “but during the crisis our advisers said to
delay it for the time being” and focus on the restructuring of
Dubai World and other state-controlled companies, he said.
“Once it’s finalized we’ll be in a better position,” he said,
adding that the government is open to a local rating for a
transaction in Malaysia.  Dubai World reached an agreement with all its creditors in
October to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt. The emirate
named  Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum,  head of Emirates
airline and uncle of Dubai’s ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al
Maktoum, as chairman of Dubai World in a board revamp Dec. 12.  “There’s no pressure to sell assets because the
restructuring plan allows Dubai World five to eight years to
repay the debts,” Al Saleh said. “So the issue now is
selecting the right timing to match the maturities of the
debts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  