-- U.S. Grand Jury Indicts Dutch Guerrilla in Colombia on Terrorism Charges
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 2010-12-14T20:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/dutch-woman-indicted-in-u-s-for-kidnapping-americans-with-colombia-rebels.html
A Dutch national and member of
Colombia’s biggest guerrilla group was indicted on terrorism and
weapons charges by a U.S. federal grand jury in Washington.  Tanja Nijmeijer, who joined the Revolutionary Armed Forces
of Colombia in 2002, and 17 other members of the group known as
FARC were charged for their involvement in the kidnapping of
three U.S. citizens, the U.S. Justice Department said in a
statement.  The defendants face up to 60 years in prison if convicted,
the statement said.  The 32-year-old Nijmeijer gained notoriety in Colombia
after her personal diary was recovered following a military raid
in 2007. In it, she complains of disillusionment with rebel
commanders’ machismo and hypocrisy, as well as sexual
promiscuity within rebel ranks.  “How will it be when we take power?,” she wrote in one
entry. “The wives of the commanders in Ferrari Testa Rossas
with breast implants eating caviar?”  In a videotaped  interview  from her jungle hideout this year
with Radio Netherlands Worldwide, Nijmeijer describes how she
first learned about Colombia’s guerrilla war when she was a
student at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands. She
also states that she will be a “guerrilla until we are
victorious or until we die, and there’s no turning back.”  Nijmeijer arrived to in Colombia in 2000 after writing her
thesis on the FARC. She worked as an English teacher in the
western city of Pereira before joining a group that delivered
humanitarian aid to peasants caught in southern Colombia between
clashing paramilitaries and rebels.  The three U.S. kidnapping victims mentioned in today’s
indictment--Keith Stansell, Thomas Howes and Marc Gonsalves--
were photographing coca fields from a single-engine plane in
February 2003 when its engine faltered, forcing a crash-landing
into FARC-controlled jungles in southern Colombia. The three
were held for more than five years before their rescue in July
2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  