-- Health-Care Ruling Against Law's Insurance Mandate to Be Appealed by U.S.
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-12-14T20:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/health-care-ruling-to-be-appealed-by-u-s-justice-department.html
The U.S. Justice Department said it
plans to appeal a federal judge’s ruling yesterday declaring
part of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul
unconstitutional.  U.S. District Judge  Henry Hudson  in Richmond, Virginia,
said the law improperly requires Americans to maintain a minimum
level of health insurance, going beyond Congress’s powers to
regulate interstate commerce. The judge left the rest of the law
intact.  Virginia Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli , who brought the
suit, had suggested the possibility of a direct appeal to the
U.S. Supreme Court. The Justice Department today rejected that
approach and said the case should first be heard by an appeals
court in Richmond.  “The department believes this case should follow the
ordinary course of allowing the courts of appeals to hear it
first so the issues and arguments can be fully developed before
the Supreme Court decides whether to consider it,” said  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  The ruling is the government’s first loss in a series of
challenges to the law in federal courts in Virginia, Michigan
and Florida, where 20 states have joined an effort to have the
statute thrown out. Constitutional scholars said, unless
Congress changes the law, its fate on appeal will probably be
determined by the U.S. Supreme Court.  ‘Unchecked Expansion’  In his 42-page opinion, Hudson said the “unchecked
expansion” of congressional power represented by the insurance
requirement “would invite unbridled exercise of federal police
powers.” No Supreme Court decision has authorized Congress to
“compel an individual to involuntarily enter the stream of
commerce by purchasing a commodity in the private market,” he
wrote.  Justice Department lawyers in court papers called the
mandatory insurance measure the cornerstone of the overhaul,
pushing younger and healthier people into the insurance pool.
Through the individual mandate and expansions of Medicaid and
employer-based coverage, the law is estimated to provide 32
million more people with coverage by 2019, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office . The mandate is set to take effect
in 2014.  The law bars insurers from denying coverage to people who
are sick or imposing lifetime limits on costs. Without payments
generated from the required policies, the health-insurance
market would face extinction, the government argued. The mandate
falls under Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce as
$43 billion in unpaid medical bills are absorbed by the market
each year, U.S. lawyers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  