-- MIT, Duke Early Applications Rise as Jobs Spur Move
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2010-12-14T17:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/early-applicants-besiege-mit-columbia-as-economy-steers-college-choices.html
Applications for early admission to
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Duke University and
Dartmouth College rose to the highest on record as students said
name-brand colleges give graduates an edge in job searches.  Early applicants to MIT surged 13 percent to an
unprecedented 6,405, said  Stuart Schmill , admissions dean. Duke
University’s total increased 13 percent to 2,260, also the most
ever, said  Christoph Guttentag , dean of undergraduate
admissions. Those institutions, as well as Columbia University
and the University of Pennsylvania, are among at least 10
nationwide where officials tell of rises in early applications.  Students for the class that will graduate in 2015 are
picking a university they think will help them land higher-
paying jobs than their parents now have, a concern magnified by
the economy, said Darby McHugh, the college coordinator at New
York City’s Bronx High School of Science.  “With the economy, college is not just a lazy, four-year
undergraduate experience,” McHugh said in a telephone
interview. “They’re preparing for a career.”  Richard Tuhrim, a chess-playing Bronx Science senior who
applied early to Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island,
said having Brown on his resume may help him after college to
land a job involving government economic policy.  “Job security has to be something that everyone thinks
about,” Tuhrim said in an interview.  Unemployment Rate  While Columbia and Cornell University in Ithaca, New York,
told students of their decisions last week, most colleges will
inform applicants for early admission by mid-December. Dartmouth
admitted 25 percent of its early applicants, according to a
statement today. Students applying early to Duke will find out
today and MIT plans to inform applicants on Dec. 16.  U.S. unemployment  was 9.8 percent in November, the Bureau
of Labor Statistics, based in Washington, reported on Dec. 3.
The rate may not return to the “stable” 5.5 percent level of
October 2004, more than three years before the latest recession
began, until late in 2014, said  Marisa Di Natale , an economist
at Moody’s Analytics in West Chester, Pennsylvania. The
recession ended in June 2009, after 18 months, according to the
National Bureau of Economic Research, based in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  At  Strath Haven High School  in Wallingford, Pennsylvania,
23 percent of the senior class, up from 18 percent last year,
applied for college under early-decision policies that require
students to enroll if they gain admission, said Jeff Haviland, a
college counselor at the school.  ‘Designer Clothes’  Combined with 32 percent of students applying for
nonbinding early-action programs, Strath Haven had the greatest
number of seniors applying early for college in Haviland’s 32
years as a counselor, he said.  “It’s like buying designer clothes,” Haviland said in a
telephone interview. “Kids believe these schools are going to
give them the edge for everything, for social connections,
economic connections, and careers.”  Allen Kouch, a senior at Strath Haven, sought early
entrance to Penn.  “I knew it was a reach to begin with,” Kouch, 17, said in
a telephone interview. “Knowing I didn’t have the perfect GPA
or the highest SAT scores, any chance I could have would be
through early decision.”  High school seniors may be correct in thinking that
applying early for college can help them get in, according to
Guttentag at Duke.  “Students who are ready to make a commitment can take
advantage of the preference generally given to binding early-
decision applicants,” Guttentag said in an e-mail.  Duke Data  Duke offered admission last year to 30 percent of early
applicants compared with 15 percent for students who applied
later in the cycle, according to data provided by Guttentag.
Duke notifies regular admissions applicants in April.  Katharine Cummings, a senior at Fieldston Upper School in
New York, applied to  Duke  before its Nov. 1 deadline for early
applications. She visited the campus in Durham, North Carolina,
in April and admired its ballet program and a center to study
the  lemur , a type of mammal.  “If I get in, then the rest of the school year will be so
much less stressful,” said Cummings, 17, who spends 20 hours a
week training with the  Manhattan Youth Ballet , a classical
ballet academy.  Thacker’s View  Critics of the spread and growth of early college
admissions say the process gives an additional edge to students
from wealthier schools and families, partly because less-
affluent applicants often must wait to compare financial-aid
offers from multiple colleges rather than agree early to attend
one.  “Early programs don’t give everybody the same chance,”
 Lloyd Thacker , executive director of the Portland, Oregon-based
Education Conservancy, a nonprofit group that seeks to make
admissions practices more equitable, said in a telephone
interview. “We already know there are many disadvantages and
advantages built in related to where students are on the socio-
economic ladder.”  Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Princeton
University in Princeton, New Jersey, and the University of
Virginia in Charlottesville said four years ago that they would
drop early-admission programs, citing concerns the process
wasn’t fair to students from lower-income families. At the time,
early offers of admission were nonbinding at Harvard, and
binding at Princeton and the University of Virginia.  Virginia’s Policy  Now in its fourth year without any kind of early
admissions, Virginia is changing its policy for next year to
allow students to apply for nonbinding early admission. That’s
because the college was losing applicants to competitors with
early programs, and because some high-school students prefer to
apply early, Greg Roberts, dean of admission, said in a
telephone interview.  While Harvard hasn’t reinstated early admissions,  William Fitzsimmons , Harvard’s dean of undergraduate admissions and
financial aid, said in a statement last month that officials
will “continue to evaluate the elimination of early admission
on a regular basis.”  At Princeton, “moving to a single-admission process has
made the application process more equitable, which was the
intended goal,”  Janet Rapelye , dean of admission, said in a
statement last month. “Princeton’s commitment to ending early
decision has not changed.”  An estimated 2.2 million U.S. students entered college in
2008, according to the U.S. Department of Education’s most
recent statistics.  New Emphasis  Aware that the economy is on students’ and parents’ minds,
marketing materials from Northwestern University in Evanston,
Illinois, are emphasizing opportunities that can augment a
resume, said Christopher Watson, dean of undergraduate
admission. One example is the chance to earn a  certificate  from
the Kellogg School of Management while still an undergraduate.  “In this economy, students and their families are thinking
more and more about the value of the degree they’ll be
getting,” Watson said in an interview. “We are trying promote
internships and job opportunities and outside-the-classroom
experience that grad schools and employers want to see that
you’ve had.”  Northwestern’s Rise  Early applications to Northwestern increased 26 percent
from a year earlier to 2,127, according to the university.  Applications for nonbinding early admission to MIT in
Cambridge surged as high-school seniors deem the education the
university offers as preparation for what companies seek in this
economy, especially in technical fields, Schmill said in a
telephone interview.  Six of the eight members of the Ivy League of elite
colleges in the northeastern U.S. offer a form of early
notification. Four had increases in the number of students
applying early, their officials said.  The University of Pennsylvania had the largest percentage
increase of the Ivy group, 19 percent. The institution received
4,571 early applications, Eric J. Furda, dean of admissions,
said in an e-mail.  Yale University’s total rose by 7 early applications, or
less than 1 percentage point, to 5,268, according to figures
provided by  Jeffrey Brenzel , dean of undergraduate admissions.  Yale’s Program  Yale , in New Haven, Connecticut, is the only Ivy League
college with a nonbinding program. At Yale, applicants find out
in December if they have an offer, and, in the event they get
one, don’t have to decide until May whether to accept it.  Early applications at  Dartmouth , in Hanover, New Hampshire,
increased 12 percent to 1,759, Latarsha R. Gatlin, of the
college, said today in an e-mail. The total at  Columbia  in New
York rose 7.8 percent to 3,217,  Robert Hornsby , a university
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Not all colleges say early applications have risen. At
Cornell, the number declined 3.8 percent to 3,456, Claudia
Wheatley, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Early applications at Brown fell 2.5 percent to 2,777, said
James Miller, dean of admission. Brown received about 30,000
total applications last year, and Miller doesn’t see the decline
in early applications as an indicator, he said in a telephone
interview.  “It’s a hiccup,” Miller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 