-- ECB Said to Consider Asking for Capital Increase as Cushion on Bond Losses
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-12-14T11:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/ecb-said-to-consider-asking-for-capital-increase-as-cushion-on-bond-losses.html
The European Central Bank may ask
members for a capital increase to protect itself from any losses
stemming from its government bond purchases, said a euro-area
central bank official with knowledge of the talks.  Any new money would come from the 16 national central banks
which use the euro and contribute most of the ECB’s 5.8 billion
euro ($7.8 billion)  capital base , the ECB’s statutes show. The
matter may be discussed at the next  Governing Council  meeting on
Dec. 16 and no decision has yet been made, said the official,
who spoke on condition of anonymity. Germany would view any ECB
request positively, a government official said.  The debate suggests the ECB is concerned its  program  to buy
the bonds of strained governments such as  Portugal  and  Ireland ,
which now totals 72 billion euros, may end up saddling its
balance sheet with losses. Bundesbank President  Axel Weber 
opposed the purchases when they were introduced in May and the
risk is that seeking support could raise new questions about the
ECB’s independence from politics.  “The link to this potential hike in ECB capital and what’s
going on in the markets is certainly the fact that the ECB is
buying government bonds which are not AAA-rated and are more
risky than bunds,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-region
economist for UniCredit SpA in Milan.  An ECB spokeswoman declined to comment. The ECB’s potential
capital request was reported by Reuters late yesterday.  Capital Keys  Any increase would be supplied by the national central
banks according to their capital subscription keys, according to
the ECB website. The formula is calculated using the respective
country’s share in the total population and gross domestic
product of the European Union.  Germany’s Bundesbank is the largest contributor with 18.9
percent, followed by the French and Italian central banks, with
14.2 percent and 12.5 percent, respectively. The Bank of England
and other non-euro members contribute 7 percent of the ECB’s
subscribed capital.  According to the ECB’s statutes “the Governing Council,
acting by the qualified majority” shall “determine the extent
to which and the form in which the capital shall be paid up.”  ECB officials have been putting pressure on the governments
to do more to end the region’s sovereign-debt crisis on concern
the central bank is shouldering too much of the burden.
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said late yesterday leaders should
consider extending and broadening the region’s bailout fund.
Standard & Poor’s today cut the outlook on Belgium’s credit
rating to negative from stable.  Austrian central bank Governor  Ewald Nowotny  raised the
issue of capital increases for national central banks last week.  “We are clearly seeing that risks are increasing in the
system for European central banks because we are having to take
on a whole range of extra risks,” Nowotny said in Vienna on
Dec. 10. “So in the whole European system we’ll have to get a
better capital base for central banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Fraher  in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  