-- Emanuel Cites Wedding Dress in Chicago House as Residency for Mayoral Run
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-12-14T21:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/emanuel-cites-items-in-his-chicago-house-to-prove-residency-in-mayoral-bid.html
Rahm Emanuel , President Barack
Obama’s former chief of staff, testified about his wife’s
wedding dress, family china and car registrations to prove that
he meets a residency requirement to run for mayor of Chicago.  “I was planning on coming home and I wanted to go back
into the home,” Emanuel said at a public hearing today at the
Cook County Administration Building.  The Emanuels left china, photo albums and the dress at
their Chicago home when they moved to Washington in 2009, he
said today. He can’t live in the house while exploring a mayoral
bid because he hasn’t been able to persuade the tenant in his
2,719-square-foot (252 square meters) home to move out before
the lease expires in June. The tenants are Robert and Lori
Halpin, according to lease documents Emanuel provided to the
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners.  “It was for the safety and security of the house,”
Emanuel said, explaining why he rented his home on Chicago’s
North Side while working in Washington. Emanuel had been
answering questions for about five hours as of 2:30 p.m. Chicago
time.  Emanuel, 51, is seeking to succeed retiring Mayor  Richard M. Daley . Other candidates include U.S. Representative  Danny Davis ; Illinois state Senator  James Meeks , minister of one of
Chicago’s largest churches; City Clerk Miguel del Valle; former
Chicago school board President  Gery Chico ; and former U.S.
Senator and New Zealand Ambassador  Carol Moseley Braun .  Emanuel amended his 2009 Illinois tax return after
indicating he was only a part-time resident.  “I’m not an accountant,” he said during the hearing.  Citing Axelrod  Emanuel and his wife, Amy Rule, wrote in a filing on Nov.
24 that amended returns made clear they were full-year residents
of Illinois in 2009, according to a Chicago Sun-Times report on
Dec. 12. They said they were also full-year residents in the
state this year, the newspaper reported.  David Axelrod , a senior adviser to Obama, kept his Chicago
house without renting it, unlike Emanuel, said  Burt Odelson , the
attorney leading the drive to get Emanuel kicked off the mayoral
ballot.  Emanuel lined up backing from executives of major Chicago-
area companies. A Nov. 15 fundraiser for him was co-hosted by
 Glenn Tilton ,  United Continental Holdings Inc.  non-executive
chairman, and  Miles White , chief executive officer of  Abbott
Laboratories , among others.  Budget Woes  Daley, 68, said Sept. 7 that he wouldn’t seek re-election
to a seventh term. The City Council on Nov. 17 passed his 2011
budget of $6.15 billion, closing a $654 million deficit in part
by asking union workers to join non-union employees in taking
furlough days.  The next mayor may have to target city workers for firings
and benefit cuts because of Chicago’s escalating employee costs,
which comprise  83 percent  of its $3.26 billion general fund for
fiscal 2011. The city has repeatedly tapped reserve funds to
balance its budget, leading Standard & Poor’s to cut Chicago’s
credit rating on Nov. 5 by one level to A+, the fifth highest
grade.  Following Emanuel’s questioning, the public will be invited
to submit written comments that will be “a matter of public
record,” Joseph A. Morris, the hearing officer overseeing the
matter for the election board, said today.  Morris said he will issue a non-binding recommendation to
the board sometime this week. Their vote will decide if Emanuel
will be allowed to continue his mayoral bid.  The losing party has a week to file an appeal with the
circuit court, Jim Allen, a spokesman for the board, wrote in an
e-mail today.  Emanuel is a former U.S. congressman whose district
comprised parts of the city’s north side and northwest suburbs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  