-- Emerging Stocks Rise to One-Week High as Hyundai Heavy Gains; Brazil Falls
-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y
-- 2010-12-14T15:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/emerging-stocks-rise-to-one-week-high-as-hyundai-heavy-gains-brazil-falls.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, lifting
the benchmark index to a one-week high, after Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co. won more ship orders from a client and Indian
inflation slowed to an 11-month low.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.5 percent to
1,128.28 as of 10:31 a.m. in New York, headed for its highest
close since Dec. 7. The  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index 
gained 0.6 percent as the drop in inflation prompted speculation
the central bank will pause in raising interest rates. Benchmark
measures in Russia and Brazil fell.  Hyundai Heavy, the world’s largest shipbuilder, jumped 8.9
percent in Seoul after Hapag-Lloyd AG increased a containership
order. Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd., India’s largest copper
producer, advanced 3.4 percent as the metal climbed to a record.
 Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.  rose 2.2 percent in Taipei on
speculation it will form a solar venture.  “This certainly boosts investor confidence,” said  Kishor Ostwal , managing director of CNI Research (India) Ltd., a
publicly traded equities research provider in Mumbai.
“Companies can now expect the central bank to focus more on
easing a cash crunch so that they can raise funds for
expansion.”  Developing nation bonds gained as the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt rather than U.S. Treasuries narrowed 7
basis points to 228, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index.  ‘Nice Run-Up’  The MSCI emerging-markets Index has climbed 15 percent this
year. The gauge dropped 0.6 percent last week as concern grew
that China’s central bank would raise interest rates. The bank
instead increased lenders’ reserve ratio requirements. The MSCI
index has since rallied 1.2 percent.  “We had a nice run-up after the central bank decided not
to raise interest rates over the weekend,” said  Wang Zheng ,
Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment
Management Co., which manages about $120 million.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  gained 0.1 percent, as
software companies rallied after the Shanghai Securities News
reported the government will maintain preferential policies for
the industry. South Korea’s Kospi index climbed 0.6 percent.  In Seoul,  Hyundai Heavy  jumped after saying that Hapag-
Lloyd increased an order to 10 container ships from six. Daewoo
Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co., the world’s second-
biggest shipyard, surged 6.2 percent.  India  Stocks in India rose as the Commerce Ministry reported that
the benchmark  wholesale-price index  increased 7.48 percent in
November from a year earlier after an 8.58 percent jump in
October. The country’s benchmark repurchase rate is at 6.25
percent after six increases since March to cool the rate of
inflation. Reserve Bank of India policy makers meet on Dec. 16.  Hon Hai Precision  rose in Taipei after a research note from
Mirae Asset Securities Co. cited speculation that it will form a
solar venture with  GCL Poly Energy Holdings Ltd.  Hon Hai’s
 Foxconn Technology Co.  unit surged 6.7 percent.  Edmund Ding , spokesman for Hon Hai, didn’t answer calls
made to his mobile phone.  Tong Yee Ming , chief financial officer
at GCL, wasn’t immediately available for comment at his office.  The  Bovespa  stock index dropped 0.5 percent, falling for
the first time in three days after retail sales rose less than
analysts’ estimates and Gerdau SA said it will issue new shares.  Retailers  Lojas Americanas SA  and  Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar  slipped after sales rose 0.4
percent in October from September, lower than the 1.1 percent
median forecast by 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Micex index in Russia declined, led by OAO Novatek, the
natio’s second-largest natural gas producer. Oil, Russia’s main
export earner, fell 30 cents to $88.31 a barrel in New York.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Darren Boey  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  