-- Merkel Rises as Westerwelle Sinks in Business Elite Estimation, Poll Shows
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-12-14T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/merkel-rises-as-westerwelle-sinks-in-business-elite-estimation-poll-shows.html
Germany’s business and political
elites are dissatisfied with Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government and lay the blame with her Free Democratic Party
coalition partner, according to a survey for Capital magazine.  Of the 541 German leaders in business, politics and
administration questioned, 72 percent said they were unsatisfied
with the coalition government, the Capital poll conducted by the
Allensbach Institute showed. While 54 percent found Merkel to be
a “strong chancellor,” up 10 points from June, 64 percent said
the FDP would be stronger if Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle 
resigned as chairman.  “The skepticism is great,” Allensbach’s director,  Renate Koecher , said today in an e-mailed statement. Sixty-one percent
of respondents said the coalition was “weak.”  Merkel’s coalition partner has struggled to regain voter
support after it failed to deliver on tax-cut pledges, suffering
another blow over the weekend as a senior party figure compared
the FDP’s political fortunes to the final days of East Germany.
Eighty-five percent of the managers surveyed by Allensbach said
the FDP leadership is at fault for the party’s weakness.  The managers were more optimistic about the economy. Sixty-
four percent said economic growth will continue in the next six
months, with almost two-thirds planning to hire new workers.  The twice-yearly survey, conducted between Nov. 22 and Dec.
6, included 77 executives from companies employing more than
20,000 people, 24 state premiers and ministers and 24 directors
of federal or state agencies, Capital said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  