-- European Directories Squeezes Mezzanine Lenders in U.K. Legal `Cram Down'
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t
-- 2010-12-14T09:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/european-directories-squeezes-junior-lenders-as-backlash-builds.html
European Directories BV’s insolvency
filing in the U.K. last week brings mezzanine debt losses on LBO
loans in the last two years to more than $1 billion, pushing up
borrowing costs on new junior-ranking loans.  The Dutch company, whose 2 billion-euro ($2.7 billion)
filing Dec. 6 ranks as the largest administration in the U.K.
this year, left mezzanine loan holders with no recovery. The
yellow-pages publisher arranged a U.K. prepackaged
administration, a quickie bankruptcy that squeezed junior
lenders out of holdings.  European Directories follows a string of similar cases in
the U.K., where companies have used the country’s legal tools to
cram-down “out of the money” investors. Mezzanine lenders are
already demanding higher interest margins on new deals as
defaults peaked last year. S&P forecasts the 12-month European
rate of nonpayment for leveraged borrowers may reach 7.5 percent
in 2012 from an expected 4 percent by the end of this year, and
a high of 14.8 percent in 2009.  “Coupons have gone up and inter-creditor agreements on new
deals have improved in favor of mezzanine lenders, whereas in
the past they were geared more toward senior lenders,” said
 Stephen Mostyn-Williams , founder of leveraged finance consulting
firm smwlaw. “The U.K. legal mechanisms allow for very
efficient cram-down of out of the money junior creditors.”  Rising Margins  Mezzanine loan margins have increased to 11.06 percentage
points over benchmark rates in 2010 from 10.62 percentage points
in 2009 and 8.8 percentage points in 2007, according to S&P
Leveraged Commentary & Data. U.K. investors have taken about 125
million pounds of losses on mezzanine debt this year and 580
million pounds last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In a prepackaged administration, borrowers and certain
creditor groups agree to a restructuring and subordinated debt
holders whose investments have lost their value are usually
forced to take a full loss on their holdings.  “The ‘pre-pack’ administration has been used in a number
of cases, to place the business on to a more appropriate debt
footing,” said  Richard Fleming , U.K. Head of Restructuring at
KPMG. “Many leveraged buyouts completed in the heady days of
free cash looked completely inappropriate in the post-Lehman
crash world.”  Mezzanine lenders to European Directories lost 75 million
euros and second-lien holders lost 15 million euros after the
company relocated its headquarters to London from Amsterdam.  Del Jones, an external spokesman for the company based in
London, declined to comment.  Losses  Greek phone company Wind Hellas Telecommunications SA’s
junior bondholders were left with 1.3 billion euros of losses in
a pre-pack administration in the U.K after moving Hellas moved
its address to London from Luxembourg. IMO Car Wash wiped out
119 million pounds of mezzanine loans, according to a court
ruling in August 2009.  “The English courts have repeatedly demonstrated that they
will assist in driving through debt restructurings which
preserve a group’s business,” said Kon Asimacopoulos, London-
based co-head of European Restructuring at law firm Kirkland &
Ellis. “This has been the case despite objection of creditors
who have no remaining economic interest.”  Losses for mezzanine investors in European Directories
comes as other junior lenders take a more dominant voice in
restructurings this year.  Gala Coral Group Ltd. completed a $4 billion out-of-court
debt restructuring in January 2010 that gave mezzanine lenders
Apollo Management LP, Goldman Sachs and Park Square Capital LLP
control of the company.  Alliance Medical Ltd., the U.K. provider of medical-imaging
equipment including CT scanners and X-ray machines, agreed to
give mezzanine lenders a minority stake Dec. 10 in a debt-for-
equity swap.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London at 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  