-- European Stocks Rise for Seventh Day on U.S. Retail Sales; Lufthansa Gains
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-12-14T17:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-lanxess-may-move-on-acquisition.html
European stocks climbed for a
seventh day, their longest winning streak in almost six months,
as better-than-forecast retail sales in the U.S. offset declines
in basic-resource shares and carmakers.  Air France-KLM Group and Deutsche Lufthansa AG rose as
Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded the airlines. ProSiebenSat.1
Media AG lost 5.7 percent as Die Welt reported that the owners
of Germany’s biggest private broadcaster may sell the company in
2011. Outokumpu Oyj sank 5.4 percent after saying the fourth
quarter will be weaker than previously forecast. European
carmakers posted the worst performance among 19 industry groups.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600  Index advanced 0.2 percent
to 277.65 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, having earlier
declined as much as 0.3 percent. The gauge has rallied for seven
days to the highest level in more than two years as China
refrained from raising interest rates even as inflation in the
world’s second-largest economy surged.  “It’s very quiet as investors have positioned themselves
already,”  Matthias Jasper , head of equities at WGZ Bank AG in
Dusseldorf, said. “Investors are not ready to take additional
risk for now. Equities are still more attractive than other
asset classes and strategically one has to be overweight
equities next year.”  Federal Reserve officials will probably make no change to
the size of the stimulus when they meet today in Washington for
the last time this year, according to 38 of 39 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey on Dec. 7-8. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in
an interview broadcast on Dec. 5, told CBS Corp.’s “60
Minutes” that the recovery may not be self-sustaining and more
purchases of debt beyond the $600 billion approved by the
central bank through June are “certainly possible.”  U.S. Retail Sales  Sales at U.S. retailers  rose more than forecast in November
as holiday shopping got under way, a report showed today.
Purchases increased 0.8 percent, following a 1.7 percent gain in
October that was larger than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.6 percent increase.  German  investor confidence  improved for a second month in
December as the recovery in Europe’s largest economy showed
signs of broadening. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said its  index  of investor and analyst
expectations increased to 4.3 from 1.8 in November. Economists
predicted a gain to 3.9, according to the median of 36 forecasts
in a  Bloomberg News survey .  U.K. House Prices  A  housing-market gauge  in the U.K. stayed close to its
lowest level in 18 months in November as demand for homes waned,
the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said.  Belgium had the outlook on its debt rating lowered to
negative from stable at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
because the country’s political stalemate makes it vulnerable to
rising borrowing costs.  Analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show annual profit
growth in Europe will average 46 percent in 2010 and 2011, more
than at any time in the previous seven years. The earnings yield
for Stoxx 600 companies, or profit as a proportion of the share
price, is 6.53 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
3.6 percentage points more than the yield on 10-year German
government bonds.  “We will see a continuation of earnings growth in 2011,”
 Ian Scott , a London-based strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
said at a conference in Frankfurt today. “The corporate sector
is very profitable yet the market isn’t paying for it.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 11 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index increased 0.3 percent.
The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index gained 0.5 percent, while Germany’s
DAX Index slipped less than 0.1 percent.  Air France, Lufthansa  Air France  and  Lufthansa  climbed 1.4 percent to 14.40 euros
and 1.7 percent to 17.34 euros, respectively. The two airlines
were raised to “outperform” from “neutral” at Credit Suisse.  Mediaset SpA, the broadcaster owned by  Silvio Berlusconi ,
surged 3.3 percent to 4.64 euros after the Italian Prime
Minister survived a confidence vote as rebel lawmakers failed to
muster enough support to topple his government.  TUI AG rallied 5.1 percent to 9.83 euros as the German
owner of Europe’s largest travel company said profit at Hapag-
Lloyd boosted its full-year operating result. Hapag contributed
150 million euros ($200.9 million) to net income compared with a
loss of 174 million euros a year earlier, Hanover, Germany-based
TUI said today.  BP Rises  BP Plc gained 3.2 percent to 473.1 pence as the
international oil company sold fields in Pakistan to Hong Kong-
based investment group United Energy Group Ltd. as part of its
plan to pay for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S rose 4.7 percent to 181.90 kroner.
The company won an order for 30 turbines of its V52-850 kilowatt
model for a project in Cape Verde, the company said.  Vilmorin & Cie.  gained 3.3 percent to 85.75 euros after
Europe’s second-biggest seed company was raised to
“outperform” from “underperform” at CA Cheuvreux.  ProSiebenSat  slumped 5.7 percent to 21.68 euros for the
largest decline in the Stoxx 600 after Die Welt newspaper
reported that Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Permira LLP aim
to sell the broadcaster next year. Die Welt cited unidentified
people in the financial markets.  Outokumpu declined 5.4 percent to 13.10 euros after the
 Finnish stainless-steel maker  forecast that fourth-quarter
operating profit will be “clearly negative” rather than close
to breakeven, the company said.  ThyssenKrupp, Acerinox  Basic-resource shares posted the second-worst performance
among 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx 600 , dropping 0.7 percent.
ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s largest steelmaker, slid 1.5 percent
to 31.16 euros, while  Acerinox SA  retreated 1 percent to 11.83
euros.  German carmakers paced declines by a measure of European
automobile makers. Volkswagen AG,  Europe’s largest carmaker ,
lost 1.9 percent to 128.90 euros. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG
and Daimler AG, the world’s biggest makers of luxury cars, fell
1.5 percent to 62.47 euros and 1.2 percent to 54.11 euros,
respectively.  Allied Irish Banks Plc dropped 4.6 percent to 43.9 euro
cents, erasing yesterday’s advance. The Dublin-based lender,
which is being bailed out by the government, decided not to pay
bonuses to some employees in its markets unit following a letter
it received from Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan .  Meetic SA , the operator of a dating website, tumbled 13
percent to 16.87 euros after founder and Chief Executive Officer
 Marc Simoncini  abandoned his plans to sell the company.
Separately, the shares were cut to “underperform” from
“outperform” at Cheuvreux.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 