-- Europe's Bondholders Shouldn't Share Bailout Cost, Danish Government Says
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2010-12-14T09:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/europe-s-bondholders-shouldn-t-share-bailout-cost-danish-government-says.html
Euro-area senior bondholders
shouldn’t have to share the cost of bailing out the region’s
most indebted members as the onus is on governments to rein in
budgets and reassure investors, Danish Finance Minister  Claus Hjort Frederiksen  said.  “It’s important that the countries consolidate in a
convincing way to tell the markets that they are on the right
track,” Frederiksen said in an interview in Copenhagen
yesterday. Asked whether Europe should force debt investors to
foot part of the bill on subsequent bailouts, he said: “I don’t
think so, frankly.”  European Union leaders will this week discuss the creation
of a permanent mechanism to support over-indebted countries and
confront investor skepticism as the crisis that led to bailouts
for Greece and Ireland threatens to spread. Ireland’s 85
billion-euro ($115 billion) rescue package came after weeks of
negotiations during which German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  was
forced to water down demands that bondholders share future
bailout costs, instead of heaping the full burden on taxpayers.  Ireland’s decision on Nov. 28 to accept a bailout has
failed to quell concern that Europe’s debt crisis is spreading.
The cost of insuring Portuguese, Spanish and Italian bonds
climbed to records as investors bet the EU’s financial lifeline
may not be enough to ward off defaults.  Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, is the largest
contributor to the bailout fund and the main promoter of a
permanent crisis resolution mechanism after 2013 that will
require investors to foot part of the bill in the case of state
bailouts. Still, the measure won’t be automatic and will be
subject to a case-by-case assessment.  Extending the Mechanism  The so-called European Stability Mechanism could be
extended beyond the 16-member euro region to apply to all 27
countries in the EU, Frederiksen also said.  “As the regulation concerns all European countries, it’s
important that we can join the mechanism,” he said. “It’s not
yet clear whether it’s accepting the whole mechanism or part of
it, but these are discussions we have to have. It’s important
that the difference in regulation is as small as possible
between the euro zone countries and the EU 27.”  The mechanism would take over from the 440 billion-euro
European Financial Stability Facility, set up in May and due to
expire in mid-2013. Aid from the central EU budget and
International Monetary Fund make up the rest of the current 750
billion-euro rescue package.  Euro Is ‘Solution’  “We are all dependent on the development in each of our
countries, whether we are inside the euro zone or outside the
euro zone,” Frederiksen said.  Danish voters have twice rejected the euro, and the
government has backed away from a promise to hold another
referendum on joining the currency by next year. The Danish
krone is pegged to the euro in a  narrow band .  “The euro is part of the solution,” Frederiksen said.
“It wasn’t the euro that created the problem we are in now. It
was irresponsible economic policy in some countries that has led
to this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  