-- Ex-Philippines Senator's Son Acquitted After 15 Years in Jail for Murder
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   A l c u a z   J r .
-- 2010-12-14T08:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/ex-philippines-senator-s-son-acquitted-after-15-years-in-jail-for-murder.html
The Philippines’ top court acquitted
a former senator’s son of rape and murder convictions, citing
weaknesses in the testimony of prosecution witnesses and ending
15 years of jail for him and five others convicted with him.  The Supreme Court  today ruled 7-4 to clear Hubert Webb and
the others of the 1991 crimes, court spokesman  Midas Marquez 
told reporters in Manila before noon. Webb left the prison in
the southern part of the capital with his family at around
4 p.m., according to live ABS-CBN News video.  “The majority questioned the quality of the witnesses,”
Marquez said. “There’s reasonable, lingering doubt on the guilt
of the accused. There were also suspicious details that continue
to linger and the quality of the testimony showed
inconsistencies.”  Webb, now 41, and the five others were charged in 1995 and
convicted in 2000 of raping Carmela Vizconde and killing her,
her mother and her younger sister at their Manila home. All six
defendants were sentenced to life in prison.  A seventh man, then a police officer, was convicted of
being an accessory and completed his 15-year sentence this year.
He also was acquitted by the Supreme Court today.  Webb, whom the prosecution’s main witness said had been
spurned by Carmela Vizconde, said he was outside the country
when the crime occurred. The Court of Appeals denied Webb’s
request for reconsideration in 2005.  Demetrio Custodio , Webb’s lawyer, also sought acquittal
because the government lost a semen sample taken from Vizconde
that Webb said could be tested against his DNA to prove his
innocence. Custodio also asked the court to cite the National
Bureau of Investigation, the agency that lost the evidence, for
contempt.  The Supreme Court didn’t consider those requests, Marquez
said.  Webb’s father Freddie Webb was member of the Philippine
Senate from 1992 to 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francisco Alcuaz Jr . in Manila at 
 falcuaz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net  