-- Ex-UBS Banker Is Charged in Florida With Helping U.S. Clients Dodge Taxes
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2010-12-15T15:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/ex-ubs-banker-charged-in-florida-with-helping-u-s-clients-dodge-taxes.html
The U.S. charged a former  UBS AG 
banker with helping American clients hide assets from the
Internal Revenue Service by shifting them to a smaller Swiss
bank.  Renzo Gadola, 44, was accused yesterday of conspiring with
a Swiss banker to encourage U.S. clients who hadn’t told the IRS
about their UBS accounts to open undeclared accounts at  Basler
Kantonalbank . Gadola and the banker told clients not to join a
partial amnesty program that led 18,000 Americans to disclose
offshore accounts to the IRS, prosecutors said.  Gadola and the unidentified banker told U.S. clients “not
to disclose their undeclared accounts at Basler Kantonalbank and
other banks to the United States government, including the
IRS,” according to a charge filed in federal court in Florida.  UBS, the largest Swiss bank, admitted last year that it
helped thousands of Americans evade taxes. The bank, which
avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, also gave secret
account data on thousands of Americans to the IRS. U.S.
prosecutors have charged two dozen UBS clients, as well as three
ex-UBS bankers and two other advisers.  Gadola, who worked at UBS from 1995 to 2008, is the first
person charged with trying to discourage taxpayers from entering
the IRS voluntary disclosure program. Basler Kantonalbank, based
in Basel, has not previously been linked to the U.S. crackdown.
The bank has signed an agreement requiring it to withhold taxes
for the IRS on accounts beneficially owned by U.S. taxpayers.  Bank Spokesman  Michael Buess, a spokesman for Basler Kantonalbank,
declined to comment, saying the bank doesn’t comment on legal
issues involving third parties.  Gadola, a Swiss citizen who waived indictment, appeared
yesterday in federal court in Miami and pleaded not guilty. He
faces as long as five years in prison if convicted. His attorney
Peter Raben declined to comment.  IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  said Dec. 9 that the
agency is “seriously considering” a new  voluntary disclosure 
program after drawing nearly 15,000 taxpayers from March 2009 to
October 2009 and another 3,000 since then.  Taxpayers had to name their foreign banks, bankers and
advisers, and contact information of those who handled their
money.  Shulman said the IRS is “scouring the vast quantity of
data” that “has already proved invaluable in supplementing and
corroborating prior leads, as well as developing new leads,
involving numerous banks, advisers and promoters from around the
world, including Asia and the Middle East.”  Work History  Gadola began working in Switzerland in 2009 as an
independent investment adviser and teamed with the banker, who
once serviced “hundreds of undeclared accounts at UBS” before
saying he was taking 150 clients with him when he left the bank
in 2003, according to the charge. Gadola did business under the
name of  RG Investment Partner AG .  A U.S. client from northern Mississippi told the banker in
September 2009 that he was joining the voluntary disclosure
program and would tell the IRS about his accounts at both UBS
and the smaller bank, according to the charge.  The banker told the client that if he did reveal the UBS
account, “he should not disclose his at Basler Kantonalbank, as
disclosure would bring trouble for them both.”  Gadola, who met the client Nov. 6 in a Miami hotel, said
the banker told him the chances of the U.S. learning of the
account were “practically zero percent,” according to the
charge.  ‘Adamant’ Banker  “He was very adamant about you not going forward and not
going through with the voluntary disclosure,” Gadola told the
client, according to the government.  At the meeting, Gadola used his mobile phone to call the
banker, who told the client there was no “paper trail” of his
Basler Kantonalbank account, according to prosecutors.  Gadola was arrested on Nov. 8, two days after the hotel
meeting, according to the charge.  The client in the case and his siblings inherited an
undeclared UBS account in 1999 from their deceased mother, the
government said. The client and his siblings met in Atlanta in
2000 with the banker, who said they would have to go to Zurich
to assume ownership of the account.  The client went to Zurich in 2001, and on “a number of
occasions” until 2006, to discuss the account, according to the
charge. In 2006, the banker went to Mississippi, where the
client said he had a “substantial cash hoard” in a safe
deposit box.  Cash Transactions  In January 2007, the client met the banker in a New Orleans
hotel, where he gave him half of the cash, or $200,000, the
government said. Three months later, the client went back to a
New Orleans hotel and gave the banker $245,000 in cash and got a
receipt that said “Bank: Basler Kantonalbank ZH.”  In September 2007, the banker opened an account at Basler
Kantonalbank for the client, who signed documents in the spring
of 2009 to close it. The banker told the client he put the funds
in his business account, and he would wire him the money. The
banker still hasn’t sent the money, the government said.  In the Nov. 6 meeting, Gadola told the client that the cash
from his account is “in a safe in our office.”  Martin Press , a tax attorney not involved in the case, said
his firm has done “dozens” of voluntary disclosures.  “The government has been very interested in the movement
of accounts from UBS to other banks outside the U.S.,” said
Press, of the Gunster Law Firm in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. “We
have had a number of clients who came into the voluntary
disclosure program after they were advised by UBS operatives to
move their accounts to Swiss banks with no U.S. presence.”  The case is U.S. v. Gadola, 10-mj-20878, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Susannah Nesmith  in Miami
at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 