-- Texas Rangers Balked at Offering Seven-Year Deal to Left-Hander Cliff Lee
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2010-12-14T23:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/texas-rangers-balked-at-offering-seven-year-deal-to-left-hander-cliff-lee.html
The Texas Rangers were as surprised
as Philadelphia Phillies fans that free-agent pitcher  Cliff Lee 
opted to rejoin the team that he helped reach the 2009 World
Series.  “I was under the impression it was between us and the
Yankees,” Rangers President  Nolan Ryan  told reporters today on
a conference call. “When we didn’t hear anything over the
weekend, I felt like he was giving a lot of consideration in
coming to us.”  Lee, who spent the final two months of the 2009 Major
League Baseball season in Philadelphia, agreed to a five-year,
$120 million contract with the Phillies that includes an option
for a sixth season,  ESPN said , without revealing where it got
the information.  The Rangers’ proposal to the 32-year-old Lee was for six
years at $138 million, with some of that money deferred and a
vesting option for a seventh year at $23 million, the  Dallas
Morning News  said.  The Yankees presented two offers to Lee -- one for six
years at $23 million per season, and one for seven years at a
little more than $21 million per season, ESPN reported.  Texas balked at matching New York’s terms, General Partner
 Chuck Greenberg  told reporters.  “It was beyond the level we could live with, so we would
not accept those terms,” Greenberg said on the conference call.
“He was willing to remain a Ranger, but it was on terms we felt
went beyond the aggressive parameters we were operating under.”  Had the Rangers guaranteed seven years to Lee, the 2008 Cy
Young Award winner as the best pitcher in the American League,
he would have remained in Arlington, Greenberg said.  “It was simply a matter of us saying yes,” he said. “But
it would have been us saying yes on terms we weren’t comfortable
with.”  First World Series  Lee joined the Rangers from the Seattle Mariners in July.
He went 12-9 with a 3.18 earned run average for the entire
season as he helped steer Texas to the playoffs for the first
time since 1999 and to its only appearance in the World Series.  Lee won his three playoff starts against the Tampa Bay Rays
and Yankees before going 0-2 as the San Francisco Giants won the
World Series for the first time since 1954.  Bookmakers made the Phillies the favorite to win the 2011
World Series. Philadelphia’s odds narrowed to 9-5 from 6-1,
while the Yankees moved to 6-1, the same as the Boston Red Sox,
from 5-2, said  Jeff Sherman , the assistant general manager at
the Las Vegas Hilton’s sports book.  The Phillies, who won the World Series in 2008, will also
have All-Star pitchers  Cole Hamels ,  Roy Halladay  and  Roy Oswalt 
in their starting rotation.  Lee has spent nine seasons in the major leagues, with the
Cleveland Indians, Phillies, Mariners and Rangers. He has a
career record of 102-61 with a 3.85 earned run average and is 7-
2 with a 2.13 ERA in 10 postseason starts.  Last season, he led the AL in complete games (7), fewest
walks per nine innings (0.76) and strikeout-to-walk ratio
(10.28-to-1).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas at  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  