-- Fighter Jets Buzz Seoul as South Korea Conducts Simulated Attack By North
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-12-15T06:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/fighter-jets-to-buzz-seoul-as-south-korea-simulates-attack.html
Fighter jets buzzed Seoul today to
simulate an attack by North Korea as the South conducted its
biggest emergency drill in response to the deadly shelling of
Yeonpyeong Island.  Sirens sounded across the country at 2 p.m. local time,
when workers from the National Emergency Management Agency
helped guide people to more than 25,000 shelters, said Kim In
Han, a spokesman for the group, known as NEMA. Traffic stopped
for 15 minutes and pedestrians took cover in nearby office
basements and subway stations.  The government scaled back monthly civil  defense drills  to
as few as three per year by 1992 as South Koreans turned their
attention to building an economy that’s made them 18 times
richer on average than their communist neighbors, according to
the central bank. The Nov. 23 strike that killed four people
refocused attention on the border and the 250 North Korean long-
range artillery pieces that  U.S. Forces Korea  says can strike
the Seoul metropolitan area and its 23 million people.  “South Koreans became nonchalant to North Korean threats
because most of their assaults happened off the coast or
overseas,” said Ahn Cheol Hyun, head of the Ahn’s Institute of
Crisis Management in Seoul. “The Yeonpyeong attack was a wake-
up call to many and bolstering civil defense drills will be one
way of raising people’s awareness of the real threat.”  Artillery Attack  Last month’s artillery attack, the first on South Korean
soil since the 1950-53 war, followed the March sinking of a
warship. An international investigation concluded that a North
Korean torpedo was responsible for the incident, in which 46
South Korea sailors died.  The North has been implicated in previous attacks on South
Korea, including the 1987 bombing of a civilian airliner that
killed 115 people, assassination attempts on presidents and
incursions by submarines carrying commandos.  “These drills are taking place at a time when the threat
of war is becoming more visible,” Park Yeon Soo, the chief of
NEMA, told reporters yesterday in Seoul. “They will help us
build confidence in dealing with North Korea’s provocations.”  Twelve Navy KF-16 jets flew low over large cities including
Seoul and Busan, according to a spokesman from the Joint Chiefs
of Staff who declined to be named, citing military policy.
Classes in schools were suspended as students evacuated to
nearby shelters or waited for emergency instructions over the
radio, NEMA’s Kim said by telephone.  Stranded Housewife  It was the first time since 2000 that citizens were guided
to shelters during the drills, which had typically been limited
to forbidding pedestrians from crossing roads and requiring cars
to pull off to the side.  “This kind of drill, just waiting at the subway and doing
nothing, isn’t useful,” said Kim Young Ran, 57, a housewife who
waited in Gwanghwamun station in central Seoul for the drill to
end. “If Seoul is attacked the same way as Yeonpyeong, people
will be in total confusion. Still, at least I learned where my
nearest shelter is located.”  Byeon Hyun Su, a 15-year-old middle school student from
Guri on Seoul’s eastern outskirts, said previous exercises were
inadequate. During a 2009 drill for chemical and biological
threats he and his classmates were simply told to crawl under
their desks.  “We just chatted the whole time about how glad we were to
be missing class,” said Byeon. “What good is training or
hiding in the basement? We are all going to die anyway if North
Korea fires missiles.”  Disputed Border  The attack on Yeonpyeong, about 120 kilometers (75 miles)
west of Seoul near the disputed sea border, shattered the
windows of a school during class, set 30 houses ablaze and
scorched 25 hectares of land.  North Korea deploys 70 percent of its 1.2 million troops
within 90 kilometers of the Demilitarized Zone dividing the two
countries, according to an October report by the  U.S. Forces
Korea . Seoul is about 40 kilometers south of the dividing line.  There is likely to be “little warning of attack” if North
Korea ever attempts to invade, the  U.S. State Department  says on
its website.  Most of the shelters in South Korea, including about 4,000
in Seoul, are subway stations and the basements of large
buildings with thick concrete walls that make them safe from
strikes, according to NEMA. Only a small number are purpose
built air-raid shelters, the agency said.  Gas Masks  The country’s 3.9 million civil defense corps members, made
up of men aged between 20 and 40, are responsible for ensuring
the safety of citizens in case of war, according to the National
Disaster Information Center.  Corps members receive an annual four-hour training session
in first aid, putting out fires and using gas masks in their
first four years. From the fifth year, they receive one hour of
training annually, the information center said on its website.  “South Koreans are among the least sensitive to risks,”
said Steven Chon, country manager of Hill & Associates Ltd., a
unit of G4S Plc, the world’s largest security company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  