-- Florida Lowers Revenue Projections as Sales Taxes Lag Behind Forecasts
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-12-14T23:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/florida-lowers-revenue-projections-as-sales-taxes-lag-behind-forecasts.html
Florida , the fourth-most populous
state, reduced its revenue forecasts for this fiscal year and
next as slower-than-expected economic growth cut sales-tax
collections.  General revenue will be lower by $585.7 million in the year
that ends June 30, or 2.6 percent less than was projected in
August, Amy Baker, the Legislature’s chief economist, said at a
meeting of forecasters in Tallahassee today. In fiscal 2012,
revenue will be 2.5 percent below the previous estimate, or
$612.2 million less, she said.  Sales taxes bring in about three-quarters of revenue in
Florida, which has no levy on personal incomes. Sales taxes were
$88.3 million short of estimates in the first four months of
this fiscal year and account for more than half of the full-year
revision and almost 80 percent of 2012’s. Even with the lower
forecasts, overall revenue is expected to grow 4 percent this
year from last year and by 7.5 percent in fiscal 2012.  “The adjustments to the forecasts are indicative of an
economy that is still in the early stages of an abnormally slow
recovery,” said Baker during a webcast.  Standard & Poor’s, which assigns Florida its highest credit
rating, cited declines in revenue as a reason for its negative
outlook of the state in an Oct. 19 note. While S&P said revenue
had shown “some indication of stabilizing,” it said declines
in home values and high unemployment will affect sales taxes.  Higher Than Nation  Florida’s unemployment rate, at  11.9 percent  in October,
was 2.3 percentage points higher than the national average. Home
prices in the state have fallen 41 percent since their peak in
the fourth quarter of 2006, according to data from the Federal
Housing Financing Agency.  Lower-than-projected revenue will add to Florida’s $2.5
billion budget deficit, Baker said in a Dec. 9 interview. She
estimated that next year’s budget gap would surpass $3 billion.  Florida’s governor-elect,  Rick Scott , who campaigned on
promises to cut  property  and  business taxes  and  spending , will
have to contend with the larger budget gap when he takes office
next month.  Lower than previously anticipated income and consumer
confidence as well as a higher savings rate contributed to the
slower projected growth in sales taxes, said Michael Duckett, an
analyst with the Governor’s Office of Policy & Budget, one of
the three offices that work on the forecast.  “Given the fact that we have a somewhat weaker economic
forecast, I tended to lean toward the weaker side,” he told the
conference.  Lower projected revenue from auto purchases made up the
largest portion of the cuts to sales-tax  forecasts . Collections
are expected to be $176.4 lower this year than previously
estimated and $197.9 million lower next year.  Corporate income tax, the second largest component of
Florida’s revenue, fell short of the prior estimate by $193.2
million this year and $44.2 million next.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 