-- Florida Orange Crop to Avoid `Killer' Overnight Freeze, Meteorologist Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-14T13:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/florida-orange-crop-to-avoid-killer-freeze-as-temperature-stays-near-zero.html
Florida probably avoided damage to
its orange crop, the largest in the U.S., as overnight
freezing temperatures were less severe than expected,
forecasters said. Orange juice futures declined.  Temperatures near Orlando in central Florida dropped to
around 29 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 1.7 degrees Celsius) at 7
a.m. local time, just before sunrise, said Jason Nicholls, a
senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. Tampa remained above
freezing all night, said Jim Dale at British Weather Services.  Orange juice for January delivery fell 5.2 cents, or 3.1
percent, to $1.6175 a pound by 8:09 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York. Prices yesterday rose to the highest since May 2007
after Florida declared a state of emergency because of the
prospect of severe cold and crop damage. Governor  Charles Crist 
said “extreme temperatures” threatened the state with a
“major disaster.”  Overnight was “not nearly as cold as the weather service
was calling for,” Nicholls said. “If there was any effect on
the citrus crop, it was very small. If there was, it was very
localized. For most areas it was not a big deal.”  Daytona Beach  Daytona Beach, north of Orland, had temperatures as low as
minus 3.3 degrees Celsius, with freezing most of the night,
making it the area “probably of most concern,” according to
Dale at High Wycombe, England-based British Weather Services.  Oranges can be damaged when temperatures fall below 28
degrees Fahrenheit for several hours, according to AccuWeather.  “You need under 28 degrees for four hours and that did
not happen,” said  Shawn Hackett , president of Hackett
Financial Advisors Inc. in Boynton Beach, Florida. “The key to
a hard freeze is calm winds. Winds were gale force last night.
In the end it was not cold enough to cause major damage.”  Some areas of Florida may be subject to freezes through
Dec. 15, Crist said in a  statement  on Dec. 10, citing National
Weather Service forecasts.  Tonight “will be chilly but not nearly as cold” as the
past night because of cloud cover coming in, and temperatures
are expected to rise in coming days, Nicholls said.  Florida will produce 143 million boxes of oranges in the
harvest that began in October and runs into July, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said on Dec. 10. That was down from
an October estimate of 146 million boxes.  Last year, output was 133.6 million boxes, the second-
smallest crop in two decades, after a January freeze damaged
fruit. Brazil is the world’s biggest orange grower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 