-- GE Projects Sales Growth Amid Industrial Expansion
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-12-14T22:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/ge-expects-industrial-growth-next-year-acceleration-in-2012.html
General Electric Co.  said sales may
increase as much as 5 percent next year as its industrial
divisions return to growth and profit climbs.  Revenue in industrial units, which include the world’s
largest manufacturers of power-generation equipment, jet engines
and locomotives, also may increase as much as 5 percent, the
company said in a  presentation .  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is seeking to 
bolster GE’s industrial business while paring the finance unit
as a source of sales and profit. His moves include deals 
such as yesterday’s $1.3 billion agreement to buy oil-field 
equipment maker Wellstream Holdings Plc, adding solar-energy 
products and investing in refrigerator factories.  “I have to say this is the best portfolio I’ve had since
I’ve been CEO of the company and we’re quite excited about the
prospects,” Immelt, 54, said in an annual outlook meeting with
investors at the “Saturday Night Live” studios in GE’s New
York offices at 30 Rockefeller Plaza.  Immelt, who became CEO in 2001, stopped giving per-share
earnings forecasts in 2009 after the company missed them twice
the previous year amid the worsening financial crisis. Instead,
GE gives investors and analysts a framework to calculate their
own.  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company may earn $1.12 a
share this year, $1.27 a share in 2011 and $1.52 in 2012, the
 average estimates  from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Revenue Estimates  Revenue may decline to $149.8 billion this year and $143.9
billion in 2011 before climbing back to $147.9 billion in 2012,
according to the estimates, as GE sheds a majority stake in NBC
Universal.  Since Immelt’s midyear outlook discussion in May, GE has
begun investing cash amassed during the recession on two
dividend increases, resumption of share buybacks and
acquisitions totaling at least  $5 billion , mostly tied to
energy.  “The combination of good, strong, solid visible dividend
growth, bolt-on mergers and acquisitions and buyback, that
trilogy, is powerful,” Immelt said.  The company expects to repurchase a stake sold to  Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. before October, when it’s
callable, Immelt said.  GE sold $3 billion in preferred stock to Berkshire during
the height of the financial crisis and would save an annual 10
percent special dividend payment, or about $300 million, by
buying it back.  Cash Accumulation  The company accumulated cash of about $78 billion through
Sept. 30, posted its second consecutive earnings gain last
quarter and had simultaneous increases in service and equipment
orders for the first time in two years. Discretionary cash may
increase to $30 billion in 2013 from $20 billion, GE said.  “I don’t want to be arrogant about it,” said Immelt.
“It’s not my cash. It’s not  Jeff Immelt ’s cash. I want to
deploy it in an investor-friendly way.”  GE prefers to build businesses using its own research and
development, make acquisitions in the $1 billion to $3 billion
range and over time to maximize the return on total capital,
Immelt said. The oil and gas unit will have a 20 percent return
on total capital next year, he said.  “We have very much a long-term view in markets like oil
and gas,” Immelt said. “When you’re GE, you don’t have to do
it in a day. You can do it in a decade and still have a lot of
customers that want to buy your stuff.”  ‘Good Year’  Next year, earnings will grow at both the finance unit and
the industrial divisions and the pace of industrial expansion
will increase further in 2012, he said.  “We’re going to have a good year in 2010, a better year
than I thought when I stood here a year ago,” Immelt said. The
company’s performance was driven by GE Capital, which had a
“very strong year,” he said. GE Capital projected full-year
profit of  $3 billion  on Dec. 7.  Immelt singled out GE Aviation, which had about $18 billion
in revenue last year, as a model for the company’s
infrastructure units. He pointed to Brazil as an emerging market
where GE is building investments to fuel sales growth from
businesses it has owned more than a year.  GE said in November it would spend $500 million to expand
energy, transportation and health-care manufacturing in Brazil
while adding its fifth global research center.  Pension Expenses  GE climbed  16 percent  this year through yesterday, while
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 11 percent. The shares
gained 7 cents to $17.69 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
 composite trading .  Net income will increase in 2011, Immelt said, even with a
drag of 6 cents a share from pension costs. The company doesn’t
expect to make a cash contribution to its retirement plans, he
said.  GE will begin separating pension results in its earnings
report, starting in 2011, and report both net income and
operating profit results so analysts can track operations alone,
Immelt said. Its framework assumes asset returns decline to 8
percent from 8.5 percent.  Pension expense should be $2.2 billion in 2011, up from $1
billion this year, with costs declining by $100 million to $1.3
billion, Immelt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 