-- General Motors Production Slowed as Winter Storm Closes Roads in Canada
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-12-14T23:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/general-motors-production-slowed-as-winter-storm-closes-roads-in-canada.html
General Motors Co.  and  Ford Motor
Co. , the two largest U.S. automakers, canceled or shortened
shifts for at least seven vehicle assembly plants in Canada and
the U.S. Midwest because of weather-related road closings.  For GM, based in Detroit, the stopped or abbreviated shifts
affected production of the Chevrolet Equinox and GMC Terrain
compact sport-utility vehicles, the Chevrolet Impala sedan and
Camaro coupe, the Cadillac CTS and STS sedans, and Chevrolet
Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups.  Ford halted production of its Ford Flex wagon, Edge,
Explorer and Lincoln MKX SUVs, and Lincoln MKT and MKS sedans,
 Todd Nissen , a Ford spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Automakers record revenue when vehicles are assembled. So
the loss of production may affect the companies’ fourth-quarter
sales if the output isn’t recouped over the rest of the month.  The Lansing Grand River assembly plant in Lansing,
Michigan, which makes the STS and CTS models, closed earlier
today because of a parts shortage caused by highway closings in
Canada, said  Chris Lee , a GM spokesman. He declined to specify
the part.  Workers at GM’s assembly plant in Oshawa, Ontario, were
sent home early during the day shift and the late shift today
was canceled, said Jason Easton, a spokesman. GM shortened
shifts at its CAMI assembly plant in Ingersoll, Ontario,
starting yesterday, he said. The CAMI facility makes the Equinox
and Terrain, and the Oshawa plant makes the Impala and Camaro.  GM, Ford Plants  GM’s Flint assembly, which makes light- and heavy-duty
Silverado and Sierra pickups, dismissed workers early today and
will adjust work schedules based on parts availability, said  Tom Wickham , a spokesman.  Ford’s shutdowns occurred at Oakville Assembly and St.
Thomas Assembly -- both in Ontario -- and the Chicago Assembly
Plant. Nissen, the Ford spokesman, said production schedules for
tomorrow are undetermined.  Lambton County in Ontario declared a state of emergency
because of a winter storm yesterday, the Ontario Provincial
Police said today in a  statement  on its website. Police are
rescuing drivers from about 360 stranded vehicles on Highway
402, which crosses the border to Port Huron, Michigan, the
police said.  Chrysler’s Canadian operations were unaffected by the
storms,  Mary Gauthier , a spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview.  Ron Lietzke , a spokesman for Honda Motor Co.’s U.S.
manufacturing unit in Marysville, Ohio, said the company’s
factories in Ohio, Indiana and Ontario have continued operating
normally this week.  Toyota Motor Corp.  has maintained regular production
schedules at its plants in Kentucky, Indiana and Ontario this
week, said  Mike Goss , a spokesman for the company’s North
American manufacturing unit based in Erlanger, Kentucky.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 