-- Germany Stiffens Opposition to Aid Boost in Face-Off With ECB
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-12-15T11:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/germany-stiffens-opposition-to-bailout-boost-in-crisis-face-off-with-ecb.html
Germany stiffened its opposition to
expanding government-financed aid for debt-plagued euro nations,
leaving the European Central Bank to shoulder the bulk of the
burden of fighting the crisis.  With Chancellor  Angela Merkel  ruling out an increase in the
euro area’s 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) emergency fund,
Germany yesterday put the spotlight on the ECB by endorsing a
possible boost in its capital.  Discord between Merkel and ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  on the
eve of a European Union summit evokes the tensions during the
first phase of the debt crisis, when Germany held out for more
than two months before consenting to a loan package for Greece.  “The consequence is a stalemate that leaves us with a
familiar sense of déjà vu,”  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area
economist at BNP Paribas SA in London, said in a note to
investors. “Market tensions are likely to resurface, as
governments remain very publicly divided on the appropriate way
forward.”  The euro weakened after Moody’s Investors Service said
today it may cut Spain’s Aa1 credit rating. The country lost its
top rating in September. The currency declined 0.4 percent to
$1.3321 at 12:32 p.m. in Berlin.  The review is “not good for spreads or the euro,”  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds TSB Corporate Bank in
London, wrote in an e-mailed note.  Spreading Contagion  Evidence that core countries in Europe are also at risk
mounted yesterday when Standard & Poor’s cut the debt outlook
for Belgium, which is stuck with a caretaker government six
months after inconclusive elections. Belgian bonds fell, pushing
the  risk  premium against comparable German notes up 2 basis
points to 102 basis points.  “The main risk to economic recovery and the main risk to
market performance in 2011 is the euro zone,”  Andrew Popper ,
chief investment officer at SG Hambros Bank Ltd., said on
Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with  Francine Lacqua .
“The  euro zone  will be the dominant problem.”  Merkel, in a speech laying out Germany’s position for the
EU summit, said that “strict conditions” will be tied to aid
for distressed countries under a planned permanent rescue system
that leaders are set to discuss.  ‘Last Resort’  “For me it’s important that financial aid will, also in
the future, be granted only as a last resort,” Merkel told
lower-house lawmakers in Berlin today.  EU leaders start a two-day summit at 5 p.m. in Brussels
tomorrow with the focus on the permanent crisis-fighting system
to be launched in 2013.  Proposals facing German resistance include using EU money
to buy distressed governments’ bonds directly or in the
secondary market, boosting the fund’s size or redrafting
guarantee rules to make more of the money available.  The need for a cash buffer to maintain an AAA credit rating
puts the bailout fund’s effective lending capacity as low as 230
billion euros. Abandoning the top rating isn’t up for
discussion, an EU official said yesterday.  Leaders of the 16 euro governments continue to be prodded
by Trichet and the International Monetary Fund, contributor of
250 billion euros to the European rescue packages.  Trichet said euro-area governments need to put more money
on the table to halt the crisis instead of depending on the
central bank to soothe markets by buying the bonds of distressed
governments.  ‘Maximum Flexibility’  “We’re calling for maximum flexibility and maximum
capacity, quantitatively and qualitatively,” Trichet told
reporters in Frankfurt in remarks released yesterday.  The ECB settled 2.667 billion euros of bond purchases last
week, a 23-week high for a program without unanimous support on
the bank’s council. With 72 billion euros of potentially loss-
making bonds now on its books, the ECB may ask national central
banks for more capital, an official with knowledge of the
situation said yesterday.  The ECB’s other main crisis-fighting step is to provide
unlimited liquidity for  commercial banks , a policy it extended
on Dec. 2 into the second quarter of 2011.  Germany, Europe’s largest economy and biggest contributor
to aid packages for Greece and Ireland, is against tinkering
with the 440 billion-euro  European Financial Stability Facility ,
set up in May and underwritten by euro-area governments, a
German official told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  Irish Banks  Ireland on Nov. 28 borrowed 17.7 billion euros from the
facility as part of an 85 billion-euro package to plug the
fiscal holes from the bursting of its property bubble and near-
collapse of its banking system.  “These instruments are far from exhausted,”  European
Commission  President  Jose Barroso  told the  European Parliament 
in Strasbourg, France yesterday. “If need be, they can be
improved and adapted much more quickly than any alternative.”  IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  told euro-area
finance ministers on Dec. 6 that they should disburse aid
preemptively instead of waiting for a last-ditch request as
happened with Ireland, an official familiar with the debate said
yesterday.  In a side battle with a onetime ally, Merkel is also trying
to muzzle proposals by Juncker for joint euro-region bond sales
to create a more liquid market.  Juncker, head of the panel of euro-area finance ministers,
called for European governments to pool borrowing for debt up to
40 percent of gross domestic product.  To provide an incentive to keep debt down, each country
would have to finance borrowing above that limit on its own,
incurring penalty interest rates, Juncker and Italian Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti  proposed last week.  Merkel reiterated her opposition to euro-area bonds today,
saying they “are not the answer” to Europe’s debt challenges. 