-- Spain's Bonds Drop for Seventh Day as Government Sells Debt at Higher Rate
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-12-14T16:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/german-government-note-yields-near-10-month-high-before-confidence-data.html
Spanish government bonds fell for a
seventh day as the country paid a higher rate to sell more than
2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) of securities and prepared to
issue more debt later this week.  Belgian debt dropped as the outlook on its AA+ credit
rating was lowered to “negative” by Standard & Poor’s. Irish
and Greek securities also declined. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said states should consider
broadening the region’s bailout fund. German bunds declined as
data reports suggested the global economy is strengthening,
damping demand for the safest fixed-income assets.  “Until the supply is out of the way, it’s difficult to see
bonds in the peripheral euro nations rallying,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in London. “The market will remain volatile until we see a
substantive policy announcement that draws a line in the sand”
under the region’s debt crisis, he said.  The yield on the 10-year Spanish bond rose six basis points
to 5.54 percent at 4:22 p.m. in London. The 4.85 percent
security due October 2020 fell 0.40, or 4 euros per 1,000-euro
face amount, to 94.80. German 10-year yields were also six basis
points higher, at 3.03 percent.  European Union leaders will meet on Dec. 16 and 17 to
discuss the creation of a permanent mechanism to shore up over-
indebted countries as the ECB tries to hammer out plans to aid
the region’s weakest lenders.  Spanish Auctions  The total Spanish debt sold in two auctions today trailed
the maximum target of 3 billion euros set for the sale, and
yields increased as the sovereign-debt crisis has worsened since
the previous offer. The 18-month bills sold yielded 3.721
percent versus 2.664 percent at a similar sale last month.  Demand improved at both auctions. The so-called bid-to-
cover ratio for the offering of 18-month bills was 4.54,
compared with 3.66 at the November sale. Demand for Spanish 12-
month bills was 2.23 times the amount sold at auction today, the
Bank of Spain said, compared with 1.9 times the last time  Spain, the only euro-region nation apart from Italy
planning to sell bonds for the rest of this year, is due to
issue 4.85 percent 2020 and 4.65 percent 2025 debt on Dec. 16.  “While Spain could sell the bills, it has to pay a high
price,” said  Chiara Cremonesi , a fixed-income strategist at
UniCredit SpA in London.  Irish 10-year yields climbed 16 basis points to 8.44
percent. Equivalent Greek yields climbed 12 points to 11.91
percent.  Belgium Downgrade, Portugal  The yield on the 10-year Belgian bond rose eight basis
points to 4.07 percent. “Prolonged political uncertainty could
hurt Belgium’s credit standing,” S&P wrote in a statement.  The Portuguese 10-year bond yield increased nine basis
points to 6.60 percent, even after the Portuguese embassy in
Beijing said today that China made a “clear statement” of
financial support to Portugal during meetings that Finance
Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  held with Chinese leaders.  German 10-year bonds yields reached the highest since May
after reports added to signs the European and U.S. economic
recoveries remain intact.  Economic Reports  The  ZEW  Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said German investor confidence increased for a second month in
December. Its index of investor and analyst expectations
increased to 4.3 from 1.8 in November, more than the 3.9
forecast by economists.  Euro-region  industrial production  expanded 0.7 percent in
October, less than the 1.3 percent economist forecast, the
European statistics office in Luxembourg said today. U.S. retail
sales gained 0.8 percent last month, the Commerce Department
reported today. The median forecast of 77 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of 0.6 percent.
Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose in November by the most in
eight months.  Spanish and Portuguese securities fell last week,
underperforming German bunds, as European lawmakers’ divisions
on a potential joint security for the area eroded confidence
they will be able to end the debt crisis.  Capital Increase  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
European governments should consider extending and broadening
the region’s bailout fund to help fight the fiscal crisis.  “We’re calling for maximum flexibility and maximum
capacity, quantitatively and qualitatively,” Trichet told
reporters at an event in Frankfurt late yesterday, responding to
a question whether the European Financial Stability Facility
should be able to buy government bonds.  The EU’s planned permanent rescue system for indebted euro-
area countries will link aid to conditions and would involve
investors, a German government official said today.  Joint euro-area bonds won’t be a topic for discussion at
the summit, and no decision will be taken on such action, the
official told reporters in Berlin today on condition of
anonymity.  ECB Capital Raising  The ECB is considering asking euro-region members for a
capital increase to protect itself from any losses stemming from
its government bond purchases, said a euro-area central bank
official with knowledge of the talks.  Such a capital increase would be viewed positively by
Germany, the German official said.  Italian bond yields rose three basis points to 4.62 percent
after Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  won confidence votes.  Berlusconi, 74, won the confidence vote in the upper house,
where he has a majority, by 162 to 135, Senate Speaker Renato
Schifano announced. In the lower house, he won support of 314
deputies to 311 that backed the collapse of the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  