-- German Investigators Carry Out Raids on Two Salafi Muslim Organizations
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-12-14T15:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/german-authorities-make-nationwide-raids-on-islamist-groups-ministry-says.html
German investigators carried out
nationwide raids against two Salafi Muslim groups accused of
espousing Islamist extremism as authorities step up measures
targeting militant jihadists in the country.  The raids took place today in the states of Bremen, Lower
Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia, the Interior Ministry said in
a  statement . They were long planned and unrelated to a security
alert issued by the ministry last month in connection with
“concrete indications” that an attack may take place.  The action came amid a probe into two groups in western
Germany, the Invitation to Paradise and the Islamic Cultural
Center Bremen. The ministry cited one elder’s objective to
supersede Germany’s legal system with Shariah law, calling it
incompatible with the country’s parliamentary democracy.  “For an aggressive democracy, it’s as necessary as it is
prudent not to await jihad in the form of an armed struggle in
taking action against unconstitutional groups,” the ministry
said. Germany’s 2009 counterintelligence report cited a growing
number of Salafi preachers in Muslim teaching centers.  Salafism, which isn’t necessarily tied to radicalism, is a
puritanical form of Islam that promotes what its followers
perceive as the earliest form of the religion in the generations
directly following the prophet Mohammed. It’s the main branch
that influences Wahabbi Islam in Saudi Arabia.  Today’s raids underscore the heightened attention over a
possible terrorist attack. On Nov. 17, Interior Minister  Thomas de Maiziere  warned of a “new threat level” after receiving
intelligence from a foreign ally and gathering evidence
domestically from Islamist groups.  That alert was tied to alleged plans by Pakistan-based
groups associated with al-Qaeda to take out possible bomb
attacks or an armed raid on locations such as the Reichstag in
Berlin,  Der Spiegel  magazine reported on Nov. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  