-- Giants Beat Vikings as Favre Streak Ends; Ravens Defeat Texans in Overtime
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-14T05:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/giants-beat-vikings-as-favre-streak-ends-ravens-defeat-texans-in-overtime.html
The New York Giants beat the
Minnesota Vikings 21-3 to tie the Philadelphia Eagles atop the
division heading into their meeting in five days.  Vikings quarterback  Brett Favre  sat out last night’s game
with a shoulder injury, ending his National Football League-
record streak of 297 straight starts that started 18 years ago.  Ahmad Bradshaw  and  Brandon Jacobs  each rushed for more than
100 yards and a touchdown for the Giants. The Eagles and Giants
lead the National Football Conference’s East Division with 9-4
records. The Giants host the Eagles on Dec. 19.  “We won the game and that’s what we came here to do,”
Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said during a news conference. “We
have kept pace, so we’re excited about that.”  In the originally scheduled “Monday Night Football” game,
the Baltimore Ravens beat the Houston Texans 34-28 in overtime
on a 12-yard interception return by  Josh Wilson .  The Ravens blew a 21-7 second-half lead at Houston’s
Reliant Stadium before pulling out the win to improve to 9-4 and
stay one game behind the first-place Pittsburgh Steelers in the
American Football Conference’s North Division.  Without Favre, the Vikings’ offense was held to 164 total
yards at Ford Field in Detroit. The game, originally scheduled
to be played two days ago, was moved after the roof of the
Metrodome in Minneapolis partially collapsed because of snow.  Favre’s Replacement  Tarvaris Jackson  replaced the 41-year-old Favre and
completed 15 of 30 passes for 118 yards and an interception
while getting sacked four times. The Vikings finished with 164
yards of total offense.  Favre said that, although he’s played through pain before,
it was numbness and a lack of feel in his throwing hand that
ended any question of whether he’d continue the streak.  “It’s been a great run,” Favre, whose streak started in
1992, said during a news conference. “It’s a very difficult
thing to do. I realize that more so now because it seems like
I’ve been hurt a lot worse. I can’t believe that something like
this hasn’t happened before.”  The Vikings lost their first game in three to fall to 5-8
and will miss the playoffs for the first time in three seasons.
It was the first defeat for interim coach  Leslie Frazier , who
was promoted when  Brad Childress  was fired last month after a 3-
7 start.  The Giants have won three straight games since a 27-17 loss
in Philadelphia on Nov. 21.  Giants’ Touchdowns  New York scored three straight touchdowns after the Vikings
took a 3-0 first-quarter lead on a 21-yard field goal by  Ryan Longwell .  Jacobs, who ran for 116 yards, gave the Giants a 7-3 lead
with a one-yard touchdown run midway through the second quarter.
The Giants scored again eight seconds before halftime as
quarterback  Eli Manning , who made his 100th straight start,
threw a six-yard touchdown pass to  Kevin Boss .  Bradshaw, who finished with 103 rushing yards, pushed the
Giants’ lead to 21-3 with a 48-yard touchdown run with 2:55 left
in the third quarter.  In Houston, the Texans scored a touchdown and two-point
conversion with 21 seconds left in the fourth quarter to tie the
game 28-28 and force overtime.  After forcing the Ravens to punt on the opening overtime
possession,  Matt Schaub  threw the game-ending interception on
the Texans’ first offensive play. It was the 62nd pass attempt
of the game for Schaub, who threw for 393 yards and three
touchdowns, including two to  Andre Johnson .  Joe Flacco  threw two touchdown passes to  Derrick Mason  for
the Ravens, who were outgained 489-253 in total yards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 