-- Gold Demand, Mini-Contract Trade in Korea to Climb, Exchange Operator Says
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2010-12-14T02:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/gold-demand-mini-contract-trade-in-korea-to-climb-exchange-operator-says.html
Gold demand in South Korea is set to
increase as consumers buy more bars and boost investments as
currencies weaken, according to  Korea Exchange Inc. , which
expects increased trading in its so-called mini futures contract.  “Koreans have more interest in gold than other commodities,
regarding it as an investment tool,” Kim In Soo, an executive
director at the operator of equities and futures markets, said
in an interview yesterday. Korea Exchange is set to start a spot
market for bullion in 2012, Kim said, confirming an earlier plan.  Gold surged to a record last week on investor concern that
currencies are set to extend declines, while inflation in some
nations may accelerate. The rally has stoked institutional and
individual interest in the precious metal, which according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. may lead commodity advances next year.  “We expect mini-gold trading to increase through next year
as there is a plenty of investor interest,” Kim said. The
contract, introduced in September, trades in lots of 100 grams
(3.2 ounces). Volume touched a record 1,268 contracts on Nov 10.  Immediate-delivery gold has surged 27 percent this year,
touching an all-time high of $1,431.25 an ounce on Dec. 7 and
trading at $1,397.35 today. The metal may reach $1,690 an ounce
in 12 months, Goldman Sachs said in a report yesterday.  The rising volume of futures trading, “will help prepare
the spot market that we are planning,” said Kim. Open interest
in the mini-gold contract was 659 contracts as of Dec. 13,
compared with 528 at the end of November, Kim said.  ‘Decent’ Demand  Korean investments in offshore gold futures almost doubled
to about 300,000 contracts this year from 2008, proving there’s
“decent” investment demand, Kim said. Mock trading of the spot
contract will start in the fourth quarter of 2011, Kim said.  Kim’s comments add to signs of increased precious-metal
demand in Asia. China’s imports jumped to 209 metric tons in the
first 10 months of this year from 45 tons in all of 2009, the
Shanghai Gold Exchange said earlier this month. The country is
the world’s largest gold producer and second-biggest user.  The Perth Mint in Australia, producer of about 6 percent of
the world’s bullion, said in November China was a “target
market” for gold sales as banks may now import the metal.
Silver-coin sales will also climb as investors seek to protect
their wealth from weakening currencies, according to the mint.  Gold demand is “very strong,” fueled by jewelry purchases
and Asia’s economic growth,  Aram Shishmanian , chief executive
officer of the World Gold Council, said on Dec. 7 in an
interview on CNBC. Growth in Asia is “absolutely changing” the
gold market, Shishmanian said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sungwoo Park  in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  