-- Goldman Sachs's O'Neill Says Brazilian Real May Be Overvalued: Tom Keene
-- B y   T h o m a s   R .   K e e n e   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-12-14T15:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/goldman-s-o-neill-sees-brazilian-real-as-overvalued-update1-.html
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said Brazil’s currency may be overvalued
and predicted more volatility in euro-area debt markets in 2011.  “People have got to be a tiny bit careful about Brazil; it
has traveled a long, long way,” O’Neill said today in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The
currency is overvalued. I get people from Rio and Sao Paulo
visiting me in London and describing London as cheap.”  The comments are a reminder of how much has changed since
O’Neill coined the acronym BRIC in 2001 to describe the ascent
of Brazil, Russia, India and China as economic powers. The
Brazilian real has strengthened about 15 percent against the
dollar since the beginning of 2001 and 36 percent since the
start of 2009.  O’Neill predicted that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
continue to roil markets next year as the 16 governments that
share the euro search for ways to balance diverging
competitiveness more than a decade after the currency was
created in a project that was originally known as European
monetary union, or EMU.  “I don’t believe this is a credit crisis,” he said.
“It’s more of a crisis about EMU’s structure and EMU’s
governance. It’s not that easy to resolve over night.”  ‘Very Nervous’  The extended debate on governance, which European Union
leaders will resume when they meet later this week in Brussels,
may spur volatility in financial markets.  “People are going to be very nervous,” O’Neill said. “We
need much bolder, clearer leadership in Europe.”  O’Neill also expects the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury
bonds to increase to about 5 percent in the medium term from the
current 3.3 percent.  “The more I look at U.S. data, the more I think of the
U.S. returning to reality,” he said. In the medium term, that
“equates to a 10-year bond yield of 5 percent. Not necessarily
for next year, but it’s right for people to think of that. I see
that, along with continued rise in equity prices, as a pretty
good thing for everybody.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas R. Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  