-- Google-Backed RelayRides Lets Vehicle Owners Rent Cars for Cash
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/google-backed-relayrides-lets-users-rent-cars-for-cash-taking-on-zipcar.html
RelayRides , a startup backed by
Google Inc.’s venture arm and  August Capital , is opening up shop
in San Francisco today, letting the city’s residents make money
from their cars by sharing them with strangers.  The company is building on a trial run in Massachusetts,
where 50 participants are renting out vehicles to 1,000
borrowers. The concept works like  Zipcar Inc.  and other services
that use the Web to rent cars by the hour, except RelayRides
doesn’t have to buy its own fleet.  RelayRides started in June, joining the ranks of companies
that help consumers turn their possessions into revenue
producers. San Francisco-based  Getaround Inc.  also lets users
share their cars, while Airbnb Inc. allows people around the
world to rent out spare bedrooms. At the  SnapGoods  site, users
can borrow almost anything -- from a power drill to an ice-cream
maker -- by the day.  “Your car, which is usually a burden, is an asset and
something that can actually generate money,” said RelayRides
Chief Executive Officer Shelby Clark. “Significant money is
being put in people’s pockets.”  Clark, 28, started the company while finishing his master’s
degree at Harvard Business School. After rolling out in
Cambridge and showing the concept can work, RelayRides is
relocating its headquarters to the West Coast and offering the
service in San Francisco. Owners can make $250 a month on
average renting out their vehicles, and that figure should rise
as RelayRides attracts more users, Clark says.  Unused Cars  Clark came up with the idea two years ago on a cold
November day in Massachusetts, when he was relying on Zipcar to
get around. The closest vehicle available was two miles away,
forcing Clark to ride his bike. Along the ride, he saw hundreds
of cars parked that looked like they hadn’t moved in weeks,
Clark said.  “We had this amazing resource in our community and if we
could figure out how to connect people, everybody would be
better off,” he said from his office in San Francisco’s South
of Market district.  To make the project work, he needed an insurance plan that
was extensive enough to persuade owners to rent their cars to
strangers. After months of discussions, Clark found an insurer
willing to provide a $1 million policy covering theft and
accidents. He declined to name the company, saying only that
it’s a multibillion-dollar commercial insurer.  Gas, Insurance  Starting today, car owners in San Francisco can register at
the company’s website. RelayRides then installs a car-sharing
system made by  Car2Go , whose technology immobilizes the engine
until it’s accessed by the reservation holder.  Borrowers can sign up online and register their credit
card. Rates start at $6 an hour, including gas and insurance.
The owner keeps 65 percent of the revenue, with 20 percent going
to insurance and the remaining 15 percent to RelayRides.  Owners bear the cost of gas, which drivers can buy with a
credit card included in the vehicle. The account is maintained
by RelayRides, which then deducts the gas charges from the
reimbursement it gives to owners.  Borrowers are limited to 20 miles each hour, or 160 miles
per day. Above that, they’re charged 40 cents to 50 cents a
mile, depending on the type of car they rent.  Getaround has a similar approach, with two options for
owners. They can pay $200 for a car kit, which controls access
to the vehicle and lets the borrower get in via a smartphone
application. Or, they can choose to meet the renter in advance,
rather than leave the key in the car.  Getting Owners on Board  Howard Hartenbaum , a partner at Menlo Park, California-
based August Capital, led the investment in RelayRides after
checking out the service in Massachusetts. He had about a dozen
conversations with renters and owners to figure out how they use
it, how much they like it and what they see as the benefits.  Getting car owners comfortable with the idea is key to
success, Hartenbaum said.  “For renters, it’s a great asset -- it’s convenient, it’s
close, it’s cheap,” he said. “The bigger issue we have to make
sure we hit right on the head is that people who put their car
into the system are very happy with the service.”  RelayRides will use part of its new financing to expand its
staff of 15, including hiring a chief operating officer, product
manager and head of marketing, Clark said. The company didn’t
disclose the size of the funding.  Getaround, which was founded last year and is backed by
some angel investors, has 10 employees and is  also hiring , said
Jessica Scorpio, a co-founder. The company started a test of its
product in the Bay area last month and has signed up hundreds of
owners, she said.  Zipcar’s IPO  Both companies are entering the car-sharing market a decade
after  Zipcar , which filed for an initial public offering in
June. Sales at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Zipcar rose 24
percent last year to $131.2 million. Other services, such as the
San Francisco nonprofit City CarShare, also compete in the
market, aiming to promote cleaner air by reducing car ownership.  Still, there’s plenty of room for new competitors,
according to  Joe Kraus , a partner at  Google Ventures  who sits on
RelayRides’ board. He estimates car sharing is a $12.5 billion
global market, and still expanding.  “This growth is driven by the fact that car sharing is now
a convenient, affordable and sustainable alternative to
ownership,” Kraus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  