-- Google Has Dominant Role in French Online Ads, Competition Regulator Says
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-14T14:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/google-has-dominant-role-in-french-online-ads-competition-regulator-says.html
Google Inc. ’s dominant role in the
online advertising market requires it to take extra precautions
not to break antitrust law, France’s competition regulator said.  The  French Competition Authority  found “possible” areas
that may be abused and advised Google to fix practices to avoid
overcharging customers or blocking competitors. Google said the
regulator’s analysis of the advertising market linked to search-
based advertising was “too narrow.”  Google, the world’s biggest Internet-search company, is
drawing scrutiny from regulators in Europe over its market
power. The European Commission said last month  it’s 
investigating whether Google’s AdSense contracts prevent
publishers from striking deals to place ads from other services
on their sites.  “In principle, the French and the EU authorities take the
same approach” in determining dominance, said  Dan Roskis , a
Paris-based competition partner at Eversheds LLP who is not
involved in the matter. Though “legally speaking they are not
bound by the French opinion,” he said, the EU will “probably
take it into great account in the context of their own
inquiry.”  Mountain View, California-based Google said in a statement
that the search engine ad market should be viewed in relation to
other media platforms.  Other Formats  “Search ads are one of many options for advertisers,” the
company said. “If the price of search ads rises, advertisers
can and do switch to other formats, both online and offline.
That’s the sign of a competitive and dynamic industry.”  The French regulator began the study in February at the
request of the French Finance Ministry.  The Competition Authority said certain areas are
susceptible to abuse, namely “possible exclusionary conduct
intended to discourage, delay or eliminate competitors through
procedures that do not consist of merit-based competition.”  There are also “possible operational abuses, whereby the
search engine apparently imposes exorbitant conditions on its
partners and customers, treats them in a discriminatory manner
or refuses to guarantee a minimum degree of transparency,” the
regulator said.  The Competition Authority said  Google ’s dominant share of
the market wasn’t a violation of antitrust law.  Result of ‘Innovation’  “In and of itself, this dominant position is not
reprehensible,” the Competition Authority said. “It results
from a great deal of innovation.”  No investigation is under way in France, the regulator
said, as it awaits clarification of the scope of the European
Commission investigation to determine whether it should pursue
its own inquiry.  The French study “is of consultative nature and does not
address the question of the legality of certain business
practices (in particular of Google) under competition law,” the
 European Commission  said in an e-mailed statement. “There is no
overlap with the Commission.”  The regulator recommended the French parliament expand the
existing law on media ad space to cover online advertising,
requiring greater transparency on Google’s AdSense program,
which helps Web sites sell space to advertisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 