-- Gordon Brown Recalls RBS’s Blunders, Barclays’s Luck in Memoir
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-12-14T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/gordon-brown-recalls-rbs-s-blunders-barclays-s-luck-in-colorless-memoir.html
Gordon Brown  characterizes his new
book, “Beyond the Crash,” as “an insider’s story” of the
financial meltdown. That’s neither false nor entirely true.  Though the former U.K. prime minister is clearly an
insider, he doesn’t kiss, let alone tell, in this 315-page
volume. As for his story of the crisis, it often reads like a
dreary desk diary and stops on page 66, with the day in 2008
when his Labour government pledged to pump 37 billion pounds
($64 billion at the time) into three banks: Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, HBOS Plc and  Lloyds TSB Group Plc .  What Brown lacks as a raconteur, he makes up for as a
thinker. The balance of the book examines how we slid into the
Great Recession and how we might restore global growth. His
assessment has genuine merit; it plays to the strengths of a man
who views data as a window on “the hopes and fears, the
triumphs and disasters of individual lives.”  Unfortunately for him, Brown must first accept that the
crisis boiled up on his watch as Chancellor of the Exchequer,
when he -- like so many other politicians and central bankers --
believed that financial innovation had diversified and spread
risk. Hence those first 66 pages.  Readers expecting something akin to  Hank Paulson ’s memoir,
“On the Brink,” will be disappointed. Where the former U.S.
Treasury secretary gave us a personal, day-by-day account of his
late-night meetings and sleepless nights (in boxers and T-
shirt), Brown ticks off a dry list of calls placed, speeches
given, decisions made. The few anecdotes he provides have all
the sizzle of congealed bacon.  Silent on Lehman  He recalls how, at five o’clock one morning, he told his
wife Sarah that she needed to be ready to move out of Downing
Street if a bank recapitalization failed and he had to resign.
How did she react? Brown doesn’t say. He’s equally silent on the
question of what, exactly, his government told Paulson about
 Barclays Plc ’s interest in buying  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
on the weekend the rescue failed.  The crisis blindsided Brown, who was still heaping praise
on the “ingenuity” of London’s financial elite in a speech in
June 2007, just days before Northern Rock Plc began rattling
investors. Yet he soon accepted the severity of the situation
and calculated, correctly, that the way to stop the panic was
for governments to inject capital into the banks. He’s clear-
sighted in his assessment of “the tortuous and troubled
histories of RBS and HBOS.” As for Barclays, it got lucky.  Brown hits his stride in the second half of the book, where
he examines why it’s a challenge to boost global growth at a
time when the economy’s main engines, the U.S. and Europe, are
damaged and no other country or region has taken their place.  ‘Global Growth Pact’  Before the crisis, U.S. and European consumers supplied 35
percent of the planet’s economic activity, he says. That
compares with 3 percent for China and no more than 7 percent for
Brazil, Russia, India and China combined.  So what’s needed, he says, is a “global growth pact.”
Cooperative action could increase output by some $1.5 trillion
over five years, boost global GDP by 2.5 percent and create more
than 30 million additional jobs, Brown says, citing  estimates 
from the International Monetary Fund.  He’s sketchy about how the pact would work, though it would
need to address imbalances. Among other things, Brown would
create new credit instruments that would permit policy makers to
counteract shocks. He would also revisit  John Maynard Keynes ’s
proposal to create a mechanism for correcting trade imbalances,
notably those of nations that pile up excessive reserves.  What makes him think national leaders would ever broker
such a deal? He points to how the Group of 20 nations
synchronized their policies in 2008 and 2009 to stave off a
depression. Yet look at how little was accomplished at the G20
meeting in Seoul.  The snag is that all politics is local, as the late U.S.
House Speaker  Tip O’Neill  said. Barring a jolt from a new and
uglier phase of the crisis, the chances for a “global New
Deal” are slight.  “Beyond the Crash: Overcoming the First Crisis of
Globalization” is from  Simon & Schuster  (315 pages, 20 pounds,
$26). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 