-- Greek Strikes Shut Ports, Ground Planes as State Workers Protest Wage Cuts
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2010-12-15T15:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/greek-strikers-to-halt-flights-buses-as-bailout-reality-bites.html
Greek unions grounded flights, kept
ferries docked at ports and shut down public services today to
protest wage cuts as the government sticks to conditions of an
international bailout. Protesters clashed with police in Athens.  Air-traffic controllers walked off the job, canceling all
flights to and from  Athens International Airport . Public
transport workers, whose salaries were cut 10 percent under a
bill approved early today in parliament, worked on and off
between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. to carry protesters to rallies.  “In terms of our salaries, we are going back at least 20
years,” said Stamatis Klapsis, 52, who has worked as a
stationmaster at a suburban bus depot in the capital Athens for
31 years. “They are taking us back to the Middle Ages.”  While Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has reduced
government spending and raised taxes, the reality of overhauling
labor laws is biting hard in a country where the wage bill for
state-owned employers often consumes revenue. The Athens bus
operator has 2,000 vehicles and three times as many workers to
operate them, with salaries amounting to almost twice revenue,
according to figures from the company and Finance Ministry.  About 20,000 people heeded a call from the country’s two
biggest union groups to protest in Athens, according to police
estimates. Some protesters threw fire-bombs at officers deployed
outside parliament and at the Finance Ministry in the center of
the capital. Police responded with tear gas and flash grenades.  Former transport minister  Kostis Hatzidakis  was attacked by
protesters and led to safety after receiving cuts to the face,
television footage showed.  Belt Tightening  The International Monetary Fund, which together with the
European Union approved a 110 billion-euro ($148 billion)
package of emergency loans in May, said on Nov. 23 Greece was at
a “crossroads.”  Poul Thomsen , head of the IMF’s Greece
mission, said the country needs to lower health spending, cut
debt at state-owned companies and increase tax collection.  “You can tighten your belt up to a point and then you
reach a point where fiscal austerity is self defeating and I
think they’ve reached that point,” said  Diego Iscaro , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “Now they really
have to concentrate on these kinds of measures.”  Other groups taking part in today’s strike include bank
employees, doctors, teachers and employees from state-controlled
 Public Power Corp.,  which supplies electricity in the country of
11 million people. Taxi drivers turned off their engines from 10
a.m. to 2 p.m.  Bus, train and subway workers plan a 24-hour strike
tomorrow, the third in a week since plans to decrease their
wages were approved by the cabinet on Dec. 9.  Debt Increase  Spending by Greek public corporations, such as Hellenic
Railways Organization SA, helped add 0.7 percentage points of
gross domestic product to the 2009 budget deficit and increased
debt by 18 billion euros, the EU said on Nov. 15.  The revision of Greece’s 2009  shortfall  to 15.4 percent of
GDP has put pressure on Papandreou to deepen cuts to meet
targets in the bailout package, which has averted a Greek
default. The governing socialist Pasok party, which took power
in October 2009 to find the country’s budget numbers were wrong,
traditionally gains its support from unions.  “We made a choice, a conscious choice to accept an
agreement with a mechanism that we ourselves worked to
realize,” Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  told
parliament yesterday before the debate on further reductions to
state-paid salaries. “When are we going to look in a mirror and
see the reality and dare to make the changes needed?”  Deficit Pledge  Papaconstantinou pledged to get the deficit to 7.4 percent
of GDP in 2011, down from 9.4 percent of GDP this year, and
plans to save 800 million euros next year from state companies.
Workers will keep their jobs by being deployed elsewhere.  The law was approved by a majority in a vote early today.
Papandreou expelled a member of his ruling Pasok party,
Evangelos Papachristos, for voting against the bill in
principle, according to a separate e-mailed statement from the
prime minister’s office. The legislation was supported by 156
lawmakers, with 130 voting against.  About 89 percent of workers at state companies, known as
DEKOs in Greece, will have wages reduced 10 percent because
their monthly salaries exceed 1,800 euros, according to the bill
yesterday. Gross wages will be capped at 4,000 euros a month.  ‘Real Cut’  “This is a real cut,” said  Stefanos Manos , economy
minister from 1992 to 1993 in the opposition New Democracy
government. “But it will have a cost in the operation of the
system. You can’t make a nurse out of a railroad worker. The
government will do that, but we won’t get anything out of it.”  The 1,082 employees at the  Athens-Piraeus Electric Railways
Company ISAP  make an average 56,554 euros a year, almost three
times the average wage at a private company, according to
Finance Ministry figures. They  operate one track  from the
capital’s port of Piraeus to the northern suburb of Kifissia.  The 11 most unprofitable state companies had combined sales
of 1.5 billion euros in 2009 and losses of 1.7 billion euros,
the ministry’s data show. Wage costs for the 11 employers
totaled 1.2 billion euros in 2009, with 78 percent of income
going to salaries.  The bill also allows employers to sidestep industry-wide
wage agreements and forge wage and working-time accords with
their own workers, part of measures promised to the EU and IMF
in May and designed to make the country more competitive.  Participation  ADEDY, the largest public-sector union, and  General Confederation of Labor , or GSEE, Greece’s largest private-
industry union, have criticized the move as a tool that will
lead to more job losses just as the economy shrinks.  GSEE said in an e-mailed statement that participation in
protests at refineries, shipyards, ports and some companies was
100 percent, with nine in 10 workers participating at banks and
state-controlled companies like Public Power.  The law is “appalling, unacceptable and places the weight
of the crisis on the workers again, abolishing basic and
fundamental rights,”  Stathis Anestis , a GSEE official, said in
a statement on Dec. 10.  The economy is forecast by the government to shrink 4.2
percent this year and 3 percent in 2011.  Unemployment  will jump
to 14.6 percent next year from 12.1 percent this year.  “Right now we have a common enemy, those who are in
government, the IMF and the EU,” said Klapsis, the
stationmaster. The IMF “wherever they pass through is scorched
earth, the same as fire. They leave nothing behind,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  