-- Miami-Dade County's Credit Standing `at Stake' in U.S. Transit-Fund Probe
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-12-14T19:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/miami-dade-county-s-credit-standing-at-stake-in-u-s-transit-fund-probe.html
Miami-Dade County, Florida’s largest
public borrower, may find its credit standing “at stake”
because of a federal probe of accounting practices that froze
$180 million of transit funds, a local official said.  The  Federal Transit Administration , which oversees $10
billion of U.S. funds for local transportation, suspended grants
to the county last month after an audit uncovered “serious
accounting deficiencies,” Brian Farber, the agency’s associate
administrator, said in a statement. “Extensive corrective
actions” will be necessary to reverse the freeze, he said.  U.S. auditors are investigating how Miami-Dade accounted
for payroll and cash payments on buses, and whether it withdrew
federal funds for non-transit activities such as union-activity
costs, said  Ysela Llort , assistant county manager. No report has
been submitted yet, she told  county commissioners . A prolonged
freeze may harm the county’s standing with credit-rating
companies, Llort said.  “At stake is any future action that we might take in our
bonding program,” she said at a Dec. 7 meeting. Delays in
restoring the funds, meant for construction, repairs and bus
purchases, may harm the county’s reputation as “a trustworthy
organization” that can be rated “accordingly,” Llort said.  The suspension of grants isn’t unusual, Paul Griffo, a
Federal Transit Administration spokesman, said in an interview
yesterday.  Other Suspensions  “It’s a normal part of FTA business,” he said via
telephone from Washington. “Hundreds” of agencies have had
their funding suspended and then reinstated, he said.  Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings have a negative outlook on Miami-Dade, which has about
 2.4 million residents , according to U.S. Census Bureau
estimates.  S&P rates Miami-Dade’s general-obligation bonds AA-, its
fourth-highest grade. Moody’s and Fitch rate them third-highest,
at Aa2 and AA. Miami-Dade has $17.8 billion of debt outstanding,
the most of any Florida municipality, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Revenue backing general-obligation bonds fell 11 percent in
fiscal 2009, Moody’s said in an Aug. 2 report. The county has
closed $800 million of deficits over the past three years,
according to the current year’s  proposed budget , as joblessness
curbed tax collections. Unemployment reached  13.1 percent  in
October, 3.5 percentage points higher than the  national average 
that month.  Impact on Rating  “Depending on what the findings are, it may or may not
affect the rating,” Le Quach, the New York-based S&P analyst
who covers Miami-Dade, said in a telephone interview yesterday
about the U.S. audit. It “seems like a basic administrative
thing right now.”  Moody’s won’t “speculate about any future rating
changes,”  John Cline , a New York-based spokesman, said in an e-
mail yesterday. Michael Rinaldi, a Fitch analyst in New York,
didn’t comment.  Miami-Dade notified the ratings companies that the federal
grants were frozen, said Frank Hinton, the county’s bond
analyst.  “The FTA has not given us any findings in our audit,”
Hinton said in a telephone interview Dec. 10. “As such, we
don’t know how to respond. We anticipate they didn’t get the
information they wanted and when they do, everything will go
back to normal.”  Awaiting Payment  The county, which  allocates about a fifth  of its budget to
transportation, was awaiting reimbursement of $50 million from
the federal program, Ryan Elliott, an analyst with the county’s
Office of  Strategic Business Management , said at the Dec. 7
commission meeting.  After the county knows which problems prompted the freeze,
it should be able to resolve them by early March, County Manager
 George Burgess  said at the meeting.  “All of these issues are quite curable,” he said. The
county has already addressed some, including firing two
employees, Burgess said.  The county anticipates a “prompt resolution of the
issues,” Victoria Mallette, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “We have already implemented an action plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 