-- IBM Computer to Face ‘Jeopardy’ Champs for $1 Million
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-12-14T22:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/ibm-computer-to-match-wits-with-jeopardy-champs-in-1-million-showdown.html
International Business Machines
Corp.  will pit one of its computers against past champions of
the “Jeopardy!” quiz show, more than a decade after another
IBM machine defeated chess grandmaster  Garry Kasparov .  “Watson,” as the computer is called after IBM founder
 Thomas J. Watson , will square off against  Ken Jennings  and Brad
Rutter in a contest scheduled to air Feb. 14, said IBM
researcher Dave Ferrucci in an interview. Jennings has the
longest win streak in the show’s history and Rutter won more
money than any other player.  “It’s going to be a close game,” said Ferrucci, an
artificial intelligence expert who has headed the Watson
project. “These guys are really good. I’m going to have to
breathe deeply and count to 10 a lot.”  The three-contestant competition, the show’s usual number,
will last three days and the winner will receive $1 million. The
shows will be broadcast from IBM’s lab in Yorktown Heights, New
York and air during the regular “Jeopardy” time slot.  The project builds on IBM’s work in the field of artificial
intelligence, including the Deep Blue supercomputer that
defeated world champion Kasparov in a 1997 match. About four
years ago, executives at IBM, the world’s largest computer-
services provider, decided to try another challenge that would
generate public interest -- and this time with potential
commercial appeal, said Ferrucci.  The main task: make computers understand questions in
natural language, as opposed to the keyword searches common on
 Google Inc. ’s website or  Microsoft Corp. ’s Bing. While computers
can easily search databases, they have problems understanding
context, innuendo and other subtleties common in most
information, Ferrucci said.  How Watson Works  “The Holy Grail here is to create a technology that can
understand what you’re asking, the way you’re asking it,” he
said. “People want to do more with all the content we have.”  For the “Jeopardy” competition, Watson will receive each
question through a typed entry at the same time host  Alex Trebek 
reads the queries to Jennings and Rutter. The computer will scan
a custom-made database for answers and then calculate its degree
of confidence in an answer. If the confidence level exceeds a
certain threshold, it will buzz and speak the answer out loud.  “Watson’s a big step toward artificial intelligence that
directly affects people’s lives,”  Paul Saffo , managing director
at investment adviser Discern Analytics in San Francisco, said
in an interview. “It will have the intended effect -- this is
going to absolutely capture people’s attention.”  King Kong  Ferrucci developed the technology for Watson with a team of
about 20 other IBM scientists, including software engineers and
computational linguists. They created their own database from
journals, newspapers and other resources, rather than having the
computer rely on the Internet. Then they developed algorithms
that look for relevant information, depending in part on
context. The computer runs on IBM’s Power 7 server system.  The project hit some snags. When asked to name the eighth
Wonder of the World, Watson came back, with “emphatic
confidence,” that the answer was King Kong -- which it found in
a description of the movie and failed to recognize it as
fiction. The computer also struggled with words with double
meanings, like “cushion.”  “You could use ‘bad’ to mean bad, you could use ‘bad’ to
mean good, you could mean ‘bad’ to mean cool, but there’s an
intended meaning” Ferrucci said. “Language is ambiguous, it’s
contextual, it’s tacit.”  Track Record  The computer was fine-tuned during more than 50 games
against former “Jeopardy” contestants. Ferrucci declined to
comment on Watson’s record from the games, saying that although
Watson lost some games, the results gave IBM enough confidence
to play on air against the two champions.  Jennings won 74 games in 2004 and 2005, setting the record
for most consecutive games played. Rutter won the highest total
ever by a single player, earning $3.26 million.  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, added $1.54 to $145.82 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares  have climbed  11 percent this year.  The company spends about $6 billion a year, or 6 percent of
its sales, on research and development. It gets about $1 billion
from licensing fees.  The machine has started to generate interest from
businesses, particularly in customer support and health care,
Ferrucci said, declining to identify companies. The company is
building prototypes for specific applications, including health
care, he said, noting it would probably be at least three years
before such a machine was used commercially.  There’s also potential for mobile devices, if a search is
able to show more precise responses on the smaller screen. The
technology, which only works in English, will be translated into
multiple languages.  IBM has said that it will donate the $1 million to charity
if Watson wins. Jennings and Rutter plan to give half of the
proceeds to charity if they win.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 