-- Michael Jackson Ghoulish Christmas CD Thrills Tills: Mark Beech
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2010-12-14T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/michael-jackson-s-christmas-cash-in-thrills-sony-suits-ghouls-mark-beech.html
Yes, that’s  Michael Jackson  singing,
though it isn’t quite a Michael Jackson album. He had less to do
with this CD than any other.  Though this beyond-the-grave release, titled “Michael,”
is no complete disgrace, it doesn’t compare with his best. The
tills will ring out “Christmas cash-in.”  The CD opens well with “Hold My Hand,” a 2007 number with
 Akon , and the words “this life doesn’t last forever.” Not
profound, though eerie enough in retrospect.  “(I Can’t Make It) Another Day” features  Lenny Kravitz .
“Monster” is a duet with  50 Cent  about the perils of fame
(“you gave them your all, they’re watching you fall”). It has
echoes of the “Thriller” title track. Jackson recalls that era
better with “Much Too Soon,” a ballad recorded in the 1980s
and now stripped back to his lilting vocal.  “Breaking News” returns to the theme of hysterical media
coverage, while “(I Like) The Way You Love Me” starts with him
trying to work out the melody before the track kicks into gear.
 Sony  says this song was close to finished, while some of the
rest were simply “conceived and inspired by the  King of Pop .”  That’s the problem. Jackson might have done the songs very
differently, or might not have wanted them released at all. The
producers are guessing what he’d have done. With the Akon duet
and his work with  Will.I.Am  of the Black Eyed Peas, Jackson was
exploring new musical territory.  The CD is just 42 minutes, half an hour shorter than the
stodgy 2001 “Invincible” and all the better for that. The
worrisome thing is that Jackson’s producers plan many more
albums. They had decades of outtakes, demos and rough cuts to
draw on and obviously selected the most promising. It doesn’t
augur well for future releases if this is the best they can do.  Those looking for genuine Jackson holiday presents could do
worse than getting “ Michael Jackson’s Vision ,” a boxed set
that contains all of his short films -- more than four hours. It
replaces video compilations such as the “HIStory on Film” DVDs
and has a new video for “One More Chance.”  Rating: **½ for “Michael,” ***½ for “Michael Jackson’s
Vision.”  “Michael” is out today on Epic, priced about $14.
“Michael Jackson’s Vision” (Epic/Legacy) is a three-DVD box
set priced at about $40 or less. Download fees vary across
services.  ( Mark Beech  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Mark Beech  in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or Mark_Beech on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 