-- IMF Says Special Drawing Rights Can Play Bigger Role in Global Economy
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-12-14T14:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/imf-says-special-drawing-rights-can-play-bigger-role-update1-.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
Special Drawing Rights can “play an enhanced role” in the
global economy as it diversifies away from the dollar, said
Isabelle Mateos y Lago, chief of the strategy unit at the IMF’s
strategy, policy and review department.  “There is this huge and growing demand for international
 reserves  and a very narrow supply, concentrated in the largest
part in the U.S. dollar,” Mateos y Lago told reporters in
Moscow today. “This is clearly not sustainable.”  The dollar’s role as the linchpin of the global monetary
system has come under attack from some policy makers since the
2008 financial crisis.  Zhou Xiaochuan , governor of the People’s
Bank of China, has proposed that the International Monetary Fund
take over leadership of the global monetary system from the U.S.  Countries that issue traditional reserve currencies face
“very serious fiscal consolidation needs in coming years,”
Mateos y Lago said. While many emerging-market currencies,
including Russia’s ruble, are “in very good shape in terms of
debt ratios,” their turnover and market capitalization are too
small to make them alternatives to the dollar.  Expanding the roles of SDRs, currency units developed by
the IMF based on a basket of major currencies including the
dollar and the yen, may present a solution, she said.  Reduce Accumulation  “It could help reduce reserve accumulation and the cost of
this reserve accumulation” to countries and decrease global
imbalances, she said. Using SDRs may also “help develop new
reserve currencies” if the basket is expanded with emerging-
market currencies.  The IMF could also issue SDR-denominated bonds, taking a
step toward creating a new global reserve currency, she said,
adding this idea is “very theoretical” at this point.  A basket of the “most stable currencies from many
countries,” rather than a single reserve currency, is the way
forward,  German Gref , chief executive officer of OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s biggest lender, told reporters late yesterday.  “It’s important to diversify currency portfolios now,”
Gref said. “There is no alternative for the dollar, but the
world is moving in a different direction -- not toward a single
reserve currency.”  Sberbank is interested in operations with the yuan because
they “have a future,” he said, although there isn’t big demand
for them at the moment.  Russia has started adding the Canadian dollar to its
international reserves and may consider including other
currencies, including the Australian dollar,  Alexei Ulyukayev ,
first deputy chairman of Russia’s central bank, said on Nov. 25.  The Micex Stock Exchange in Moscow will start ruble-yuan
trading on Dec. 15 as Russia and China seek to reduce the use of
the U.S. dollar in bilateral transactions. HSBC Holding Plc.
said yesterday it concluded its first trade transaction in yuan
in Russia for sporting goods retailer Sportmaster.  Trade in local currencies “may be promising on a very
limited scale, but not as a global solution,” Mateos y Lago
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  