-- India Selects 37 Companies in Auction to Develop Solar-Power Projects
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-12-14T03:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/indian-government-names-37-winners-in-first-auction-for-solar-power-plants.html
India announced 37 winners of the
country’s first solar power project auction intended to
jumpstart a national program to generate 20,000 megawatts of
electricity from the sun by 2022.  The auction awarded the largest capacities of 100 megawatts
each to Lanco Infratech Ltd.,  KVK Energy Ventures Pvt.  and
Rajasthan Sun Technique Pvt., according to a list published on
the website of NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd., the state-run
power trader overseeing the process.  Under the  National Solar Mission program , NTPC Vidyut will
buy the electricity produced by the solar plants and bundle it
with cheaper coal-fired electricity from parent  NTPC Ltd.  that’s
sold to distribution companies.  India, which enjoys on average about 300 sunny days a year,
drew bids for more than eight times the 620 megawatts of
capacity offered as companies vied to benefit from government
subsidies and soaring power needs in Asia’s second-fastest
growing economy.  Other companies selected to build solar projects include
Indian Oil Corp., Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.,  Punj LLoyd Ltd.  and
 Azure Power , according to the list. The winners are eligible for
incentives under the program, including special tariffs and a
power-bundling arrangement designed to assure them of a buyer
for their expensive solar electricity.  Cheapest Rates  European governments including Spain, Germany and France
are curbing solar subsidies that set off a boom of investment
and spiraling state renewable-energy costs. India is seeking to
avoid such problems in part by awarding capacity to companies
offering to sell their electricity at the cheapest rates.  The list didn’t say at what price the companies bid to sell
their solar power. Deepak Gupta, secretary of the  Ministry of
New and Renewable Energy , said yesterday that the average bid
for photovoltaic plants was to sell one kilowatt-hour of
electricity at 12.16 rupees (27 U.S. cents) compared with the
government’s proposed rate of 17.91 rupees.  The average bid for solar thermal projects was for 11.48
rupees per kilowatt-hour compared with the government rate of
15.31 rupees.  The auction awarded 470 megawatts of solar thermal capacity
and 150 megawatts of photovoltaic capacity. For solar
photovoltaic projects, energy from the sun is converted directly
to electricity, while in solar thermal projects, the sun’s
energy is used to make steam which is then used to generate
power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  