-- Singh Orders Probe Into Use of Phone Tapping, Wants `Ethical' Businesses
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-12-14T07:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/india-s-singh-vows-probe-into-police-phone-taps-urges-ethical-business.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
asked the cabinet secretary to look into the use of phone
tapping by law enforcement agencies as he called for businesses
to improve their corporate behavior after recent scandals.  Singh defended telephone interceptions in a televised
 speech  in New Delhi, saying it’s necessary to protect national
security, and prevent tax evasion and money laundering. He asked
for a report from the cabinet secretary within a month.  “While these powers are needed in the world that we live
in, they have to be exercised with utmost care and under well
defined rules, procedures and mechanisms so that they are not
misused,” Singh said. “I am aware of the nervousness in some
sections of the corporate sector arising out of the powers.”  Singh made the remarks after  Ratan Tata , chairman of
India’s Tata Group, filed a petition in the country’s Supreme
Court on Nov. 29 seeking to stop phone conversations between him
and the founder of the Group’s public relations company from
being circulated.  India’s top judges are examining the tapes as part of a
probe after a minister resigned last month amid allegations that
he awarded phone licenses to select companies at below-market
prices, slashing $31 billion from government revenue.  Singh said that corporate responsibility should be the
“cornerstone” of companies’ behavior. He said it was down to
large companies to set an example.  “I am sure our business leaders are aware that business
practices of some corporate houses have recently come under
intense public scrutiny for their perceived ethical deficit,”
Singh said. “Ethical and responsible behavior needs to become
the cornerstone of corporate behavior.”  Separately, in the past month, federal agents ensnared
eight executives at the nation’s biggest life insurer, a
brokerage and three state-run banks in a housing-loan probe and
detained organizers of the $4.6 billion Commonwealth Games for
misuse of public funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Macaskill  in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  