-- India's Inflation Cools to Lowest in 2010, Giving RBI Scope to Hold Rates
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-12-14T06:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/inflation-cools-to-lowest-level-in-2010-giving-rbi-scope-to-hold-rates.html
India’s  inflation  slowed to an 11-
month low, giving the central bank scope this month to pause
Asia’s fastest round of interest-rate increases.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 7.48 percent in
November from a year earlier after an 8.58 percent jump in
October, the commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi
today. The median estimate of 27 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 7.45 percent gain.  Price pressures may strengthen as  industrial production 
grew at the fastest pace in three months in October, signaling
consumer demand remains strong even after six rate increases in
2010. Reserve Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  may resume
monetary tightening in January after keeping borrowing costs on
hold at a Dec. 16 policy meeting as a cash crunch at lenders
limits his ability to boost borrowing costs, economists said.  “The central bank will pause this month,”  Indranil Pan ,
chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. in Mumbai, said
before the report. “It will hike rates in January since
inflation pressures are building up and growth is strong.”  For now, a record 1.1 trillion rupees ($22 billion) of
share sales by companies including  Coal India Ltd.  in 2010 has
drained funds from the banking system.  Cash Shortage  Commercial banks borrowed an average 820 billion rupees a
day this quarter using the Reserve Bank’s repurchase-auction
window, compared with 239 billion rupees in the previous three
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, signaling a
shortage of money with the lenders.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  advanced 0.5
percent at 11:39 a.m. in Mumbai. The yield on India’s seven-year
bond was unchanged at 7.99 percent, the lowest level since Dec.
2, as the RBI prepares to buy back 120 billion rupees of notes
tomorrow to inject cash into the economy.  Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told reporters in Kolkata last
week that the move to replenish funds at lenders isn’t a sign of
a change in the central bank’s monetary policy stance.  Subbarao said Dec. 8 that inflation is above the central
bank’s “tolerance level” as the country battles rising prices
along with China. The Reserve Bank aims to slow inflation to
between 4 percent and 4.5 percent.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told reporters in New
Delhi that he expects the inflation rate at 6 percent by March
31.  India’s industrial output rose 10.8 percent in October.  In China, where industrial output jumped 13.1 percent in
October from a year earlier, inflation is accelerating following
an unprecedented credit expansion, a result of efforts to
protect the economy from last year’s global recession. Consumer
prices rose 4.4 percent in October from a year earlier, the
fastest pace in two years.  The People’s Bank of China on Dec. 10 raised lenders’
reserve requirements for the third time in five weeks. In
October, it increased the benchmark interest rate for the first
time since 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 