-- Innkeepers Judge Says Best Western Can't End Agreement for Florida Hotel
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-12-14T16:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/innkeepers-judge-says-best-western-can-t-end-agreement-for-florida-hotel.html
Innkeepers USA Trust  can keep an
agreement to run the Best Western West Palm Beach Airport Inn in
West Palm Beach, Florida, preventing a situation the bankrupt
company said could harm its ability to reorganize.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley Chapman  in Manhattan today
barred Best Western International Inc.’s request to end its
contract with Innkeepers at the hotel, saying that if she did,
defaults could be triggered on Innkeepers’ loans.  “I believe the debtors are entitled to more time to
determine what they want to do with this agreement,” Chapman
said.  Best Western said the hotel doesn’t meet its requirements
for design features such as mandated lobby size and exercise
facilities, which it imposes on hotel operators that use its
brand. It asked to end Innkeepers’ ability to use its logos,
citing damage to its trademark.  “This hotel is in the bottom scores of customer
satisfaction. Its flying a Best Western Flag, but it’s not what
customers expect,” Best Western lawyer Michael Helms told
Chapman.  Termination of the agreement would cause a default on
Innkeepers’ $53 million loan from Five Mile Capital Inc., and
its $17.5 million loan from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. As a
result, the lenders could demand the loans due, and the company
wouldn’t be able to use cash collateral.  Other hotels could also bring similar motions if Best
Western’s request is granted, Innkeepers’ lawyer said.  “Granting the relief requested likely would result in the
debtor’s other contract counterparties bringing similar motions
for relief, which could severely hamper the debtor’s ability to
reorganize,” Innkeepers said in court papers.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 