-- Inventories at U.S. Companies Climbed 0.7% in November, Less Than Forecast
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-14T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/inventories-at-u-s-companies-climbed-0-7-in-october-less-than-forecast.html
Inventories  in the U.S. rose less
than forecast in October, restrained by the biggest drop in
retail stockpiles in more than a year as merchants had trouble
keeping up with surging demand.  The 0.7 percent increase in inventories compared with a 1.4
percent jump in sales in October that was the biggest gain in
seven months, the Commerce Department said today in Washington.
The September increase in stockpiles was revised up to 1.3
percent from a previously reported 0.9 percent advance.  Companies had enough goods on hand to supply 1.27 month’s
worth of sales at October’s pace, less than in the prior month.
Another report today showed retail purchases climbed more than
forecast in November, indicating companies may need to keep
placing orders to restock shelves in coming months.  “We have to see strong sales to support the inventory
numbers,”  Robert Dye , a senior economist at PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh, said before the report. “It
looks like there is upside risk for fourth-quarter” economic
growth.  Economists  forecast  inventories would rise 1 percent,
according to the median of 51 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from gains of 0.1 percent to 1.5
percent.  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s report not
previously released, decreased 0.6 percent in October as sales
jumped 1.8 percent, the most since March. Inventories at auto
dealers and building material stores led the drop.  Sales Climbing  Retail purchases  increased another 0.8 percent in November,
the Commerce Department also reported today. Excluding autos,
gasoline and building materials, which are the figures used to
calculate gross domestic product, sales climbed 0.9 percent, the
most since August.  Labor Department data today also showed prices paid to
producers increased 0.8 percent from the prior month, led by
higher costs for gasoline, heating oil and fruit.  Excluding  more
volatile food and energy costs, the so-called core measure posted
the smallest year-over-year gain in five months.  Factory inventories rose 0.9 percent and sales increased 0.3
percent in October while wholesale stockpiles climbed 1.9 and
shipments climbed 2.2 percent.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual
pace in the third quarter, up from a 1.7 percent gain in the
second quarter, according to revised figures from the Commerce
Department last month.  Influence on Growth  Gains in inventories contributed 1.3 percentage points to
growth in the third quarter after a 0.82 point contribution in
the second quarter.  Some retailers added more goods to stockpiles in
anticipation spending would be sustained into the holidays.  Macy’s Inc.  is among retailers adding to stockpiles ahead of
a projected pickup in spending during the holidays. The second-
biggest U.S. department-store chain on Dec. 2 reported its
November sales increased 7.8 percent from a year ago.  “We feel great about our inventory position,” Chief
Executive Officer  Terry Lundgren  said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television on Nov. 26. “It’s just 1 or 2 percent above
last year, and it’s really targeted in certain categories.”  Carmakers are among companies making sure inventories don’t
balloon even as demand picks up.  General Motors Co . and Ford
Motor Co. reported improved U.S. sales in November from a year
earlier. Industrywide light-vehicle sales ran at a 12.3 million
annual pace in November, matching the October rate that was the
fastest since the U.S. government’s “cash for clunkers” program
in 2009.  “Our retail market share continues to improve,” Jim
 Bunnell , general manager for GM’s dealer network and sales
support, said on a Dec. 1 conference call. “We’re doing this
while managing our inventories prudently and maintaining
discipline in our use of incentives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  