-- Lions Gate Investors Reject Icahn Slate, Back Company
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-14T21:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/lions-gate-investors-reject-icahn-s-board-nominees-elect-studio-s-slate.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. 
investors rejected billionaire  Carl Icahn ’s five nominees to the
independent film and TV studio’s board, handing management a
victory in the long-running takeover battle.  All company nominees were elected, Lions Gate officials
said at a shareholder meeting today in Beverly Hills,
California, citing preliminary results. Co-Chairman  Harald Ludwig , Vice Chairman  Michael Burns  and investor  Mark Rachesky 
were among the directors targeted by Icahn, 74, who owns almost
33 percent of the stock.  Board seats would have given Icahn added leverage to
pressure Lions Gate, distributor of the “‘Saw’’ horror films
and producer of cable TV’s ‘‘Mad Men.’’ The investor withdrew
his latest, $7.50-a-share  buyout  bid yesterday and all but
conceded the board election following a court ruling that let
Rachesky vote recently acquired shares.  ‘‘We got solid support,’’  Icahn Enterprises  President
 Daniel Ninivaggi  said in an interview. ‘‘We think it would have
gone the other way if not for the Rachesky shares.’’  Lions Gate isn’t offering Icahn any board seats, Burns said
today, declining to say whether the two sides are talking.
Earlier, the company was unwilling to give up authority that
Icahn sought beyond board membership.  ‘‘Carl has my home phone number,’’ Burns said in an
interview. ‘‘We have said all along that we are not opposed to a
board seat. We’re opposed to giving him super powers that other
board members don’t have.”  Low Bid  Icahn’s bid was never high enough to draw support from
other shareholders, said  Marla Backer , an analyst at Hudson
Square Research in New York. She rates the stock “buy.”  “He may come back again, but for the time being management
can finally focus all of its efforts on running the business,
which is a good thing for Lions Gate,” Backer said in an
interview.  Lions Gate, run from Santa Monica, California, fell 45
cents to $6.64 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . The stock has declined almost 11 percent since Icahn
ended his bid.  Icahn had sought unsuccessfully to stop Rachesky, the
 second-largest investor  with about 29 percent, from voting new
shares acquired in a July 20 equity-for-debt swap. The deal
diluted Icahn’s holdings and put more stock in the hands of
investors allied with management of Vancouver-based Lions Gate.  Court Setback  On Dec. 9, New York state Supreme Court Justice  James Yates 
denied Icahn’s request for a preliminary injunction.  “We will continue to monitor the situation at Lions Gate
and aggressively take all actions necessary to protect our
investment,” Icahn said yesterday in a statement.  Icahn is continuing to press the suit in New York, arguing
management conspired with large shareholders to thwart his bid.  On Nov. 26, Icahn proposed five candidates for Lions Gate’s
12-person board, including former  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc .
executive  Chris McGurk . The others were Canadian film and TV
producer Jay Firestone, former Bertelsmann Music Group Chairman
 Michael Dornemann , Ninivaggi and Princeton economics professor
 Harold Shapiro . Icahn asked investors to withhold support for
five company nominees, including   G. Scott Paterson  and  Hardwick Simmons .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  