-- Irish, Portuguese Bonds Outpace Peers as ECB Speeds Purchases: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-14T15:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/irish-portugal-bonds-outpace-peers-as-ecb-hastens-purchases-euro-credit.html
European Central Bank  purchases
ensured Irish and Portuguese bonds beat their euro-region peers
this month even as Deutsche Bank AG predicted  Portugal  will be
the next country forced to seek aid.  Irish bonds handed investors a 6.9 percent return since the
end of November, trimming losses this year to 10.3 percent.
Portuguese debt advanced 3.7 percent, compared with a gain of 1
percent for Spanish securities and 1.04 percent for Italian
bonds. Investors lost money on AAA rated German and French debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  “The outperformance of Irish and Portuguese bonds was
probably pretty much down to reported aggressive buying from the
ECB,” said  Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income strategist at Deutsche
Bank AG in London. “I don’t see the improvement in spreads as a
turning point. The bigger picture of the debt crisis, especially
for Portugal, hasn’t changed.”  Investors are demanding less additional yield to hold Irish
and Portuguese debt than German bunds, and those premiums have
dropped more than for Italy. The Irish 10-year yield spread to
German bunds of equivalent maturity narrowed to 528 basis points
from 616 at the start of the month, while the Spanish spread
widened 2 basis points to 252.  More Bond Buying  The ECB has accelerated bond purchases from Ireland,
Portugal and Greece to stop contagion from spreading, according
to traders familiar with the transactions who declined to be
identified because the transactions are confidential. The
central bank bought at least 2.667 billion euros ($3.6 billion)
of bonds last week, up 36 percent from the prior week, according
to central bank data published yesterday.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis erupted late last year after
Greece’s newly elected socialist government said the budget
deficit was twice as big as the previous administration had
disclosed. The sell-off of so-called euro peripheral bonds
accelerated in October after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
called for bondholders to share losses with taxpayers.  Yield spreads may widen anew as spending cuts hurt growth,
increasing the risk that some countries may miss their fiscal
targets, according to  Marcel Bross , a fixed-income strategist at
Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG. The Portuguese economy will
contract next year and Spain will barely grow, according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Refinancing Needs  High refinancing needs for Portugal and Spain in the second
quarter may trigger a surge in yields, Bross said. Spain has
about 45 billion euros of bonds coming due next year, with the
first payment of 15.5 billion euros scheduled for April.
Portugal may need to raise at least 9.4 billion euros in the
first half of 2011, Bloomberg data show.  “With respect to the bigger picture for spreads, we don’t
believe we are out of the woods yet,” Bross said. “We look for
another crisis leg starting in late first quarter and early
second quarter.”  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said the
European Union and International Monetary Fund may have to
assist more euro-area nations.  “Support to Greece and Ireland from the IMF and rest of
the European Union has given those countries a breathing space n
which to undertake the necessary adjustments,” Bean said in a
speech in London yesterday. “Financial support for other
countries may or may not prove necessary. Only time will tell.”  Any worsening may prompt the ECB to step up bond purchases
unless policy makers agree on longer-term solutions, said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate
& Investment Bank in London.  ‘Extremely Illiquid’  “Bond buying by the ECB has had a strong impact on spreads
for now because it’s carried out in an extremely illiquid
market,” Chatwell said. “The market will watch what the
central bank will do when liquidity returns to a normal level in
the new year. We need clarity and a credible longer-term
solution to turn sentiment around.”  Spanish and Italian bonds have weakened amid signs of
division among European governments over how to stem the
region’s debt crisis. European Union leaders will attend a
summit on Dec. 16 and Dec. 17, with Italy, Belgium, and
Luxembourg favoring joint euro-area bond sales, while Germany
and France oppose the idea.  The euro’s survival is “non-negotiable,” requiring budget
vigilance and closer economic cooperation to overcome
“structural weaknesses” within the euro region, Merkel and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said Dec. 10. They ruled out
joint bonds and rejected any increase in the size of a rescue
fund set up in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  