-- Ireland to Force Loss-Sharing on Junior Debt Holders
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-12-14T17:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/irish-bill-allows-junior-bank-bondholders-to-share-loss-burden.html
Ireland’s government will be able to
force junior bank bondholders to share losses to protect
financial stability under legislation published today.  The government may take action if “necessary for
preserving or restoring the financial position of the relevant
institution,” according to the Credit Institutions
(Stabilization) Bill, published on the Irish Parliament’s
website. Lawmakers will vote on the plan, which also gives
ministers power to veto bonuses at bailed-out lenders, tomorrow.  Under the rules, the  finance ministry  and central bank
would have to review an individual bank’s debt, the extent of
government financial support it received and the chances that
junior debt holders would be repaid if the lender were wound up.
The government would then be able to seek a court order forcing
bondholders to share the cost of rescuing the bank.  The bill will allow the government “to take the actions
required to bring about a domestic retail banking system that is
proportionate to and focused on the Irish economy,” Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  said in a statement. “The banking system
must play its role in providing the credit to the real economy
to support our recovery.”  Ireland’s government pledged an “ intensification ” of the
restructuring of its banks, including asset sales, as part of an
85 billion-euro ($114 billion) international aid package agreed
on Nov. 28. Under the bailout from the International Monetary
Fund and European Union, the government may force subordinated
bondholders in Irish banks to share the cost of bailing out the
financial system.  Bondholder Rights  The law gives the government power to alter bondholders’
rights, including those regarding the payment of interest,
repayment of principal, events of default and the timing of the
payback of debt, according to an explanatory note, published on
the finance ministry’s website. Effected subordinated
bondholders may also be given a stake in a lender, it said. The
powers will expire at the end of 2012, the ministry said.  “In terms of forcing losses on subordinated bondholders,
the government is distinguishing between institutions in terms
of how much state support they received,”  Ciaran Callaghan , an
analyst at Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers, said by telephone. The
law may let the government “take a more punitive position” in
 Allied Irish Bank  Plc’s restructuring than in the case of  Bank
of Ireland  Plc, he said.  Notes Fall  Bank of Ireland, the country’s biggest lender, fell 4.3
percent to 40.5 euro cents at the 5:10 p.m. close of trading in
Dublin, while Allied Irish, the second-biggest, fell 4.6 percent
to 43.9 cents.  Bank of Ireland’s 248.15 million euros of subordinated
floating-rate notes due January 2017 fell 2.4 percent to 44.25
cents in London, according to composite prices on Bloomberg. The
securities can be called in 2012. Allied Irish’s 1.5 billion
euros of senior floating-rate securities due September 2011
dropped 1.17 cents on the euro to 88.5 cents.  Bank of Ireland , which is 36 percent government-owned, is
seeking to swap as much as 1.5 billion euros of its subordinated
debt this week at discounts of 46 percent to 58 percent to face
value for new notes, guaranteed by the government. The lender
was ordered by the central bank last month to raise 2.2 billion
euros more capital by the end of February to meet new regulatory
standards.  Allied Irish, 19 percent state-owned, must raise 9.8
billion euros by March. The bill allows the government to inject
capital into Allied Irish before the end of the year to ensure
it meets regulatory requirements, the ministry said.  Liability Management  By buying back and exchanging their debt at prices lower
than face value, lenders can book a gain. Allied Irish and Bank
of Ireland, which have already generated a combined 3.37 billion
euros of gains over the past 21 months from such transactions,
could raise 3 billion euros to 4 billion euros from similar
transactions,  Glas Securities , the Dublin-based fixed-income
firm, said in a note to clients yesterday.  The bill also allows the minister to order the transfer of
assets and liabilities of lenders to help restructure the
industry. Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said Nov. 29
that the deposits of  Anglo Irish Bank  Corp. and Irish Nationwide
Building Society, both controlled by the government, will be
transferred to other lenders.  The government will also be able to veto bonuses at banks
that get taxpayer money, according to the legislation. Allied
Irish yesterday dropped plans to pay 39.2 million euros of
bonuses to workers in its markets unit after Lenihan threatened
to withdraw government support for the lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  