-- Israel Seeks 20 Additional F-35s After Failure of U.S. Swap for Peace Plan
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-12-15T01:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/israel-seeks-20-more-f-35s-after-failed-u-s-swap-for-settlement-freeze.html
Israel’s ambassador to the U.S.,
 Michael Oren , said his country is still seeking 20 additional F-
35 fighter jets even after the failure of a U.S. offer to
provide the planes in exchange for a freeze on Israeli
settlement construction.  The 20 jets would be in addition to the 20  Lockheed Martin
Corp. -built F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, valued at about $2.8
billion, that Israel ordered in October, Oren told Bloomberg
News reporters and editors in Washington yesterday.  “It was clear from the beginning that the 20 we were
purchasing would not be enough and we’d require more,” Oren
said. The F-35 planes are the “ballast in helping Israel
maintain its qualitative military edge” over potential foes in
the region, he said.  Defense officials from both countries are discussing ways
to pay for the “expensive” jets because Israel lacks the
funds, Oren said.  The U.S. had offered the 20 additional F-35 jets as part of
an effort to revive direct Middle East peace talks between
Israel and the Palestinian Authority, which stalled after an
earlier freeze on West Bank settlement construction ended in
September. Israel’s Lieutenant General  Gabi Ashkenazi  confirmed
the offer at a Nov. 17 news conference at the Pentagon.  The Obama administration said last week that it would stop
pushing Israel for a renewed 90-day construction moratorium.  “The 90-day extension discussion is off the table but the
20 extra jets are very much on the table,” Oren said. “It’s
not attached to the 90-day freeze.”  ‘Wasn’t a Bribe’  Discussion on providing Israel with an additional set of 20
F-35 jets began around mid-year, part of a longstanding U.S.
undertaking to help Israel “defend itself against any Middle
East adversary or a combination of adversaries,” Oren said.
“It wasn’t a bribe, and was not intended to be a bribe, but
part of ongoing discussions.”  Recent U.S. sales of weapons to the Middle East, including
the proposed transfer of arms to Saudi Arabia, have eroded
Israel’s military edge against nations in the region that have
larger defense budgets than Israel, Oren said.  The U.S. currently provides Israel $3 billion annually in
military aid. The program isn’t as sufficient to buy protection
as it had been 20 years ago when it began, Oren said.  In October, the Obama administration told Congress of plans
to sell Saudi Arabia arms valued at $60 billion, which may be
the largest weapons sale to another country in U.S. history if
all purchases are made.  The plan included  Boeing Co . F-15 fighter jets, attack
helicopters and satellite-guided bombs, according to notices
sent to Congress on Oct. 20. It also covers transport
helicopters made by  United Technologies Corp . and advanced radar
from  Raytheon Co .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ; 