-- Mitsubishi, Daimler's Smart, Peugeot Top U.K. Plug-In Vehicle Grant List
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-12-14T15:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/mitsubishi-smart-peugeot-lead-list-for-u-k-plug-in-electric-car-grants.html
U.K. motorists will be eligible for
grants of as much as 5,000 pounds ($7,945) when they buy
electric low-emission cars produced by  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. ,
 Daimler AG’s  Smart brand and  Peugeot SA , the government said.  Transport Secretary  Philip Hammond  published the names of
the first nine models that will be eligible for the “plug-in
car grant” for vehicles with carbon-dioxide emissions of less
than 75 grams a kilometer. The other six will come onto the U.K.
market later in 2011 or in 2012, the  U.K. Society of Motor
Manufacturers and Traders  said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Government action to support affordable vehicles and more
local charging points means we are on the threshold of an
exciting green revolution,” Hammond said in the statement. Next
year “could be remembered as the year the electric car took
off.”  The Mitsubishi  iMiEV , Smart fortwo electric drive and
Peugeot iOn, which will have their first U.K. deliveries in
January, will be the first to attract the grants, the SMMT said.  They will be joined by  Nissan Motor Co. Ltd.’s   Leaf  and
 Tata Motors Ltd.’s  Vista, which have their first deliveries in
March, and Peugeot’s Citroen CZero, which is slated to be
delivered to the U.K. early next year, the SMMT said.  General
Motors Co.’s  Vauxhall Ampera and Chevrolet Volt will also be
eligible, along with  Toyota Motor Corp.’s  Prius plug-in hybrid
when they are introduced in the U.K. in early 2012.  Motorists will be allowed a discount of as much as 25
percent off the list price, capped at 5,000 pounds, and another
round of eligible vehicles will be announced next year.  Charging Points  The English Midlands, Greater Manchester, eastern England,
Scotland and Northern Ireland will also share 20 million pounds
for the installation of 4,000 more charging points. The new
areas join London, Milton Keynes and northeast England, which
won an earlier round of funding and will install more than
11,000 charging posts across the three regions by 2013.  London Mayor  Boris Johnson  also announced a 1 million-pound
fund to help owners of the city’s  black cabs  switch to electric
versions. Further details of who will be eligible for the fund
and how they can claim will be announced next year, the mayor’s
office said in an e-mailed statement today.  From the beginning of 2012, when the  Olympic Games  will be
held in London, no cab which is more than 15 years old will be
given a license to operate in the capital, Johnson’s office
said. Those that are on the road will also face more regular
checks on their emissions from 2013.  “From 2012 when the world heads to London, we will remove
the oldest, dirtiest cabs from our streets,” Johnson said. “We
are also offering a juicy carrot, with the establishment of a
fund to help speed up the introduction of electric black cabs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 