-- Ivory Coast's BRVM Slows As Investors Await Political Crisis Resolution
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-12-14T13:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/ivory-coast-s-brvm-slows-as-investors-await-political-crisis-resolution.html
Ivory Coast’s regional stock market
has seen trading volume slow as much as 50 percent, though
investors used to upheaval in the country have seen the main
index decline only 1 percent amid a post-election crisis.  The uncertainly stemming from dueling victory claims after
the Nov. 28 vote haven’t sparked any “panic” among investors,
said Jean-Paul Gillet, head of the  Bourse Regionale des Valeurs
Mobilieres .  “People are used to uncertainty, because they have already
faced this kind of situation in the past few years,” he said in
an interview at the exchange Dec. 10.  Former Prime Minister  Alassane Ouattara  was named winner
with 54.1 percent of the votes on Dec. 2 by the country’s
election commission. A day later, the Constitutional Council
annulled the declaration and named incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo  as
victor. Gbagbo has ruled the world’s top cocoa grower for a
decade.  “The stock exchange just needs a legitimate, recognized and
credible government that could give more confidence to
investors,” Gillet said. “To be more developed, we need a good
mix between regional integration in West Africa and close links
with the international” investors, he said.  “It’s understandable that volume and direction hasn’t been
affected much since on the ground nothing really has changed,”
said  Sebastian Spio-Garbrah , chief frontier markets analyst with
New York-based DaMina Advisors. “If a violent conflict breaks
out, the markets will surely react,” he said in an e-mail
yesterday.  The BRVM’s composite index of 38 companies declined 0.4
percent 155.95 yesterday, according to its website. The market
lists companies from francophone West African nations and
Guinea-Bissau. Senegal’s  Sonatel , a telecommunications company,
is the biggest by market capitalization, followed by Ivorian
beverage maker  Societe de Limonaderies et Brasseries d’Afrique .  Cocoa for March delivery fell 5 pounds, or 0.3 percent, to
1,894 pounds as of 1:28 p.m. on the Liffe exchange in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 