-- Ivory Coast's Ouattara Asks Central Bank to Block Gbagbo's Access to Funds
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-12-14T15:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-asks-central-bank-to-block-gbagbo-s-access-to-funds.html
Ivory Coast  leader  Alassane Ouattara , the United Nations and African Union-backed winner of
the Nov. 28 election, has asked the Central Bank of West African
States to block  Laurent Gbagbo ’s access to the state’s finances.  “We expect the central bank to follow the international
community,” said Meite Sindou, a spokesman for  Guillaume Soro ,
Ouattara’s choice for prime minister. Last week, the country was
suspended from the Economic Community of West African States and
the AU while yesterday, the European Union said it would impose
bans on visas and freeze the assets of Ivorian leaders “who
have refused to place themselves under the authority of the
democratically elected president.”  Gbagbo, the incumbent president who has ruled the world’s
top cocoa grower for a decade, is contesting the results of the
vote that the country’s electoral commission said was won by
Ouattara.  Officials from the Dakar-based central bank, known by its
French acronym BCEAO, may need to take a cautious approach to
the Ivorian conflict, said  Sebastian Spio-Garbrah , chief
frontier markets analyst with DaMina Advisors, based in New
York.  “Ivory Coast is the largest economy with the CFA zone, so
I expect the BCEAO officials to tread cautiously,” he said in
an e-mailed note yesterday, referring to the CFA franc common
currency shared by the eight member states.  A person at the reception of the bank’s Dakar office who
declined to give her name requested questions in writing today.  The West African CFA franc strengthened 0.2 percent against
the dollar, to 491.39 by 3:07 p.m. in Abidjan, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency is pegged to the euro and
used by several countries in the region including Mali, Niger
and Senegal. Ivory Coast’s Eurobond, due 2032, fell $1.58, or
3.1 percent, to close at $50 yesterday. The country is also
attempting to have $3 billion of debt canceled under the
International Monetary Fund and World Bank’s Heavily Indebted
Poor Country Initiative.  Cocoa for March delivery rose 23 pounds, or 1.2 percent, to
1,922 pounds by 2:58 p.m. on the Liffe exchange in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 