-- Janus-Backed Jain Irrigation Plans to Build a Plant in Africa, Mundra Says
-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-12-14T04:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/janus-backed-jain-irrigation-plans-to-build-plant-in-africa-mundra-says.html
Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd.,  the
world’s second-biggest irrigation-equipment maker, plans to
build a plant in Africa as demand for drip water products
increases in the continent.  “We see huge opportunities in Africa for micro irrigation
systems,”  Deepak Mundra , executive vice president for finance
at the Indian company, said in an e-mail interview without
elaborating. The micro irrigation business grew at a compounded
annual growth rate of 61 percent during the last five years, he
said. Micro irrigation saves water by allowing it to drip slowly
to the roots of plants.  Global water scarcity may drive demand for the company’s
products. By 2050 more than two billion people will face severe
water scarcity and another five billion people may see moderate
shortages, according to the  International Water Management
Institute . Global food production will have to double by 2050 to
feed a growing population, according to  Rabobank Group .  “Africa is a large market for them in terms of opportunity
and India will still remain their important focus area,” said
 Sangeetha Saranathan , a Mumbai-based analyst with India Infoline
Ltd., who rates the stock “buy.”  Shares  of Janus Capital Group Inc.- backed  Jain Irrigation,
have risen 28 percent this year, more than double the 13 percent
gain in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index.
The shares rose 0.5 percent to 224.1 rupees at 9:22 a.m. in
Mumbai.  Solar Cells  The company, which ranks behind Israel’s Netafim Ltd. in
micro irrigation equipment, plans to start making wind power
systems that will also generate electricity from solar cells in
Maharashtra state. The Jalgaon, India-based company is studying
the commercial viability of making solar-powered water pumps,
Mundra said.  Jain Irrigation, which has 13 manufacturing units outside
India, has orders valued at 10 billion rupees ($222 million),
Mundra said. Capital expenditure of 3.5 billion rupees for the
year ending March 31 is being met by a combination of the
company’s own funds and “low cost long-term foreign currency
borrowings,” he said.  Janus Capital funds own 6.4 percent of Jain Irrigation,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell in Mumbai at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  