-- Jerry Moyes Selling at Discount to LBO in Swift IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   M i c h a e l   T s a n g
-- 2010-12-14T21:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/jerry-moyes-selling-at-25-discount-to-07-lbo-in-swift-transportation-ipo.html
Jerry Moyes , who took control of
 Swift Transportation Co.  in a $2.37 billion leveraged buyout in
2007, is planning an initial public offering that values the
trucking company at 25 percent less after three years of losses.  North America’s largest truckload carrier is trying to
raise $1 billion selling 67.3 million Class A shares at $13 to
$15 each today in the second-biggest U.S. IPO of 2010, according
to a Securities and Exchange Commission  filing . The midpoint
price would give the Phoenix-based company a market value of
$1.78 billion. Moyes paid about the same amount in May 2007 for
the  74 percent equity stake  that he didn’t already own,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Moyes, 66, co-founded  Swift  in 1966 with a single truck. He
stepped down as chief executive officer in 2005. Now he’s
selling a 53 percent stake to help repay  debt  after the company
posted $678 million in losses. Swift Transportation’s net
borrowings relative to cash flow are more than four times the
median for U.S.-traded trucking companies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Investors are very leery of buying anything other than a
really pristine growth story,” said  Timothy Cunningham , a money
manager at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment
Management, which oversees about $70 billion. Swift is “losing
money. It’s hard to get excited about that,” he said.  Name Change  Morgan Stanley  in New York, Bank of America Corp. of
Charlotte, North Carolina, and San Francisco-based Wells Fargo &
Co. are arranging the sale. Swift Transportation, which is
changing its name from Swift Holdings Corp., will start trading
on the New York Stock Exchange tomorrow under the ticker SWFT.  Swift Transportation, which had about 16,200 tractors and
48,600 trailers in North America as of September, posted a  net
loss  of $77 million for the first three quarters of 2010.  Moyes, who originally took Swift public in 1990, had
stepped down as chairman and CEO in October 2005 after paying
$1.5 million to settle an SEC case accusing him of insider
trading without admitting or denying wrongdoing, the prospectus
said. The accusation related to his purchase of 187,000 Swift
shares in  May 2004 , days before the company announced better-
than-estimated earnings and the stock jumped 20 percent.  NHL Team  Moyes sold the National Hockey League’s  Phoenix Coyotes  to
the NHL for $140 million in November 2009 after the team filed
for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 in May of that year.  In March, the NHL sued Moyes for breach of contract, aiding
and abetting breach of fiduciary duty and attempting to sell the
Coyotes without NHL consent, seeking damages of at least $60
million, the prospectus said. Moyes has filed a motion to
dismiss the NHL’s claims.  Dave Berry , the Swift Transportation vice president who
handles press inquiries for Moyes, said the CEO wasn’t available
to comment.  Moyes, who graduated from  Weber State University  in Ogden,
Utah, in 1966 with a bachelor’s degree in business
administration, made $1.6 million as Swift Transportation’s CEO
over the past three years, the company’s prospectus said. He was
also chairman of Simon Transportation Services Inc., the
trucking company that filed for bankruptcy protection in 2002.  Swift Transportation  had $2.33 billion more debt than cash
at the end of September and generated $341 million in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
first nine months of 2010, its prospectus said.  Relative Value  That would give Swift Transportation 5.13 times more net
debt than its cash flow over a full year, more than quadruple
the median net debt-to-Ebitda ratio of 1.12 for 23 U.S.-traded
trucking companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Neither  Werner Enterprises Inc.  of Omaha, Nebraska, nor
Phoenix-based  Knight Transportation Inc. , cited as Swift
Transportation’s competitors by Marina del Rey, California-based
IPOdesktop.com, had any debt at the end of September, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Swift Transportation is “obviously a company that’s having
difficulties,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees $1 billion
at YCMNet Advisors in Walnut Creek, California. “If you’re
investing in a company with lots of losses where a high growth
rate is not on the cards, it’s a significant risk.”  GM, ISoftStone  The IPO would be the second largest in the U.S. this year
after Detroit-based  General Motors Co.’s  $18.1 billion sale of
common shares last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Swift’s deal is one of 10 scheduled for this week,
the data show.  The week’s first IPO came from  ISoftStone Holdings Ltd. , a
Beijing-based information technology services provider that
raised $141 million yesterday. The stock climbed  28 percent  to
$16.62 in New York Stock Exchange trading today.  ISoftStone  sold 10.83 million American depositary receipts
at $13 each, the top of its forecast range, according to its SEC
 filing  and Bloomberg data. The sale was the 40th U.S. IPO from a
mainland Chinese company in 2010, capping a record year that
exceeded the 37 deals in 2007, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 