-- Jet Air Will Resume India-China Service Amid Good Growth, Mahadevan Says
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2010-12-14T04:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/jet-air-to-resume-india-china-service-amid-very-good-growth-.html
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest domestic airline, plans to resume direct
flights between India and China next year to meet rising demand
for travel between the two countries.  Jet Airways will offer Mumbai-Shanghai service and plans to
add flights to cities including Tokyo, Seoul, Taipei and Paris
in the year starting April 1, 2011,  Bharath Mahadevan , manager
for the northeast Asian region, said in an interview in Hong
Kong today. The new routes will probably boost annual revenue at
least 15 percent, he said.  The airline will begin once-daily service between Mumbai
and Shanghai by the end of next year as rising incomes in China
and India, Asia’s two fastest growing major economies, prompt
more people to travel by air. The gains are fueling a rebound in
demand after Jet Air last year halted daily flights from Mumbai
to San Francisco via Shanghai to cut costs as a global recession
damped travel appetite.  “China is very, very important for us,” Mahadevan said on
Bloomberg Television. “North Asia has seen very good growth.”  The airline is adding the Mumbai-Shanghai service as it
receives deliveries of 10 Airbus SAS A330 aircraft through 2012,
Mahadevan said. The carrier will price return tickets for the
flights at least 5 percent above those currently offered by
rivals, he said.  Jet Airways  rose 2.8 percent to 777.25 rupees as of 10:15
a.m. in Mumbai. The shares have risen 40 percent this year,
compared with a 12.9 percent gain on the  Bombay Stock Exchange
200 Index .  Asia Recovery  “Asia has been a great place to be for the full-service
carriers and low-cost carriers with the recovery in business
traffic and leisure markets,”  Derek Sadubin , chief operating
officer at consultants Centre for Asia-Pacific Aviation, said
today on Bloomberg Television. “The hope is that 2011 will be
pretty much a continuation of the same.”  Jet Air posted a profit in the fiscal second quarter as
travel demand rebounded.  Net income  totaled 124 million rupees
($2.8 million) in the three months ended Sept. 30, compared with
a loss of 4.1 billion rupees a year earlier.  Typically, the northeast Asia region accounts for 4 percent
of Jet Air’s total revenue, of which the Chinese market comprise
20 percent of sales, Mahadevan said.  Increasing Capacity  Jet Air, which operates 95 aircraft in 67 cities, plans to
raise international passenger and cargo capacities between 15
percent and 20 percent in the next fiscal year, Mahadevan said.
Jet Air will also receive in the fiscal year starting April 1
four Boeing Co. 777 currently leased to Turkish Airlines, he
said.  International visitor  arrivals  to India are expected to
increase 4.2 percent next year, according to estimates by the
World Travel and Tourism Council. China is expected to receive
7.2 percent more international tourists, it said.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  is scheduled to visit India this
week and trade between the two countries is expected to reach
$60 billion this year, China’s foreign ministry forecast
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  