-- Kan Orders 5 Percentage-Point Cut in Japan's Corporate Tax to Spur Growth
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-12-14T05:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/kan-orders-5-percentage-point-cut-in-japan-company-tax-rate-to-spur-growth.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
ordered a 5 percentage point cut in the nation’s corporate tax
rate starting in the next fiscal year to boost an economy that
is showing signs of contraction.  “I’ve instructed ministers to lower the corporate tax by 5
percent to lift up the economy and beat deflation,” Kan told
reporters in remarks broadcast last night on TV Tokyo. He spoke
after meeting with Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and other
members of his Cabinet.  The corporate tax rate in Tokyo, Japan’s financial and
economic center, is 40.69 percent, compared with 28 percent in
the U.K. and 25 percent in China, according to Ministry of
Finance  data . Lowering the levy would fulfill a goal set by Kan
in September as part of his medium-term economic growth plan.  Kan’s six months in office have been dominated by struggles
to cope with falling prices and a strong yen while trying to
resolve diplomatic disputes with China and Russia. The
administration’s handling of the disagreements has helped send
his popularity plummeting.  The corporate tax cut “is one of the few positive things
Kan has done for the economy since taking office,” said
 Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “This
will help companies stay at home and prevent the country from
losing jobs.”  ‘First Step’  Trade Minister  Akihiro Ohata  said in a statement that Kan’s
directive “is the first step to lower corporate tax rates that
are too high compared with international standards, and to
create a world-class investment environment.”  The cut would increase the burden on financing Japan’s
public debt, the world’s largest. A 5 percentage point reduction
in the corporate tax will decrease revenue by between 1.4
trillion yen ($16.8 billion) and 2.1 trillion yen, according to
Ministry of Finance calculations.  “The finance ministry will surely be able to come up with
the revenue needed by observing our fiscal management
strategy,” Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  told
reporters in Tokyo. Noda said the trade ministry reported it can
secure 650 billion yen in funding by widening the corporate tax
base. He also reiterated Kan’s pledge to not exceed this year’s
record 44.3 trillion yen in government bond issuance.  ‘Utmost Efforts’  “We must make our absolute utmost efforts” to cover the
loss in revenue, Noda said.  Hiromasa Yonekura , chairman of Keidanren, Japan’s biggest
business lobby, welcomed Kan’s announcement.  “The business community intends to aggressively work on
domestic investment and job creation as the new growth strategy
is implemented,” Yonekura said in a statement.  The world’s third-largest economy may shrink this quarter
as the impact from a stimulus package fades, the government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association said last week. Exports
rose 7.8 percent in October, the slowest pace this year, while
industrial production fell for a fifth month and the jobless
rate climbed to 5.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  