-- Natural Gas Futures Decline on Forecasts of Milder Weather
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-12-14T17:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/natural-gas-futures-drop-in-new-york-on-forecasts-of-milder-u-s-weather.html
Natural gas futures fell for the
third time in four days on forecasts of milder weather in the
Midwest that may limit demand for the heating fuel.  Gas declined as temperatures may be normal or above normal
across parts of the Midwest Dec. 24 through Dec. 28, according
to Commodity Weather Group in Bethesda, Maryland. Colder-than-
normal weather is likely in the Southeast and Great Lakes region
during that period, the company said.  “The market is already looking ahead to when this deep
cold front is going to break,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst and
trader at PFGBest in Chicago. “We’re just being dragged down by
a mountain of supply.”  Natural gas for January delivery fell 14.3 cents, or 3.2
percent, to $4.277 per million British thermal units at 12:38
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The futures touched
$4.262 per million Btu, the lowest intraday price since Dec. 2.
Prices have declined 23 percent this year.  The low temperature in Chicago on Dec. 24 may be 18 degrees
Fahrenheit (minus 7 Celsius), 1 degree below normal, according
to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania. The low in
Detroit may be 22 degrees Fahrenheit, one degree above normal.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Heating demand in the U.S. may average 9 percent above
normal from Dec. 20 through Dec. 24, according to Weather
Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  U.S. Supplies  U.S. gas  stockpiles  totaled 3.725 trillion cubic feet in
the week ended Dec. 3, 9.8 percent above the five-year average
for that week and 1.5 percent below the year-earlier level.  The Energy Department this week may report a withdrawal
from inventories of 166 billion cubic feet for the week ended
Dec. 10, above the five-year average of 153 billion, according
to the median of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. natural gas production may reach a record this year,
the Energy Department said Dec. 7 in its  Short-Term Energy
Outlook.  Gas output will average 62.09 billion cubic feet a day,
the department said.  Gas production from reservoirs such as the Marcellus Shale
in Pennsylvania and West Virginia continues to drive prices for
the fuel lower, said  Anuj Sharma , an analyst with Pritchard
Capital Partners in Houston, in a note to clients today.  “Prices might come under pressure after the cold snap
dissipates as impending surge of Marcellus production over the
next couple of months could accentuate the oversupply concerns
in the near future,” Sharma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  