-- New York City Offers Build Americas as Taxable Deals Jump 96%: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-14T20:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/new-york-city-offers-build-americas-as-taxable-deals-jump-96-muni-credit.html
New York, the most-populous U.S.
city, is selling $745 million in Build America Bonds, helping
drive the level of scheduled taxable-municipal deals to almost
double last week’s, the biggest jump in four months.  States and local governments are set to market about $6.1
billion in  taxable debt in the next 30 days , an increase of
about 96 percent from Dec. 10, the largest one-day climb since
Aug. 16, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About $4.1
billion in Build Americas are planned this week, or 34 percent
of the $11.4 billion in total issuance, Bloomberg data show.  The Build America program, which is set to expire Dec. 31,
was excluded from the tax deal reached last week between
President  Barack Obama  and Republican congressional leaders. The
growing likelihood of the program’s demise will help drive
prices up and yields down as supply diminishes, said  Jim Holihan , who helps oversee about $1 billion in municipal
securities at New York-based Evercore Partners LLC.  “There’s no shortage of supply of BABs at the moment but
people are starting to anticipate the supply going away,” said
Holihan.  The city last issued Build Americas in October, with 27-
year bonds priced to yield 5.52 percent, or 180 basis points
above 30-year Treasuries. The securities traded yesterday at an
average yield of 5.79 percent, a so-called spread of 137 basis
points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  General Electric  That compares with a 28-year corporate bond from  General
Electric Co. , which was yielding 153 basis points above U.S.
federal debt yesterday. New York City is rated Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and AA by Standard & Poor’s, both third-
highest investment grade, while GE is  ranked  Aa2 by Moody’s and
one level higher by S&P at AA+.  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer of Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., told CNBC in
an interview today that New York City’s Build Americas are his
top pick in the muni market and that investors should buy them
at a yield of 6.65 percent. Gross spent $4.4 million of his own
money this month to buy shares of five municipal-bond funds run
by his firm.  Yields on the Build Americas, which include a 35 percent
federal subsidy on interest costs, rose  to 6.37 percent  Dec. 10,
an 11-month high, as the lack of clarity over the program’s
future led investors to sell the bonds. The  premium investors
demand  above Treasuries to hold the debt rose to 199 basis
points on Dec. 7, the highest since Aug. 31, before narrowing to
194 basis points at week’s end, Bloomberg data shows.  Sell Off  “They sold off while everything was uncertain,” Holihan
said. “It’s appropriate that they’ve tightened a little bit
since.”  The so-called spread will probably continue to narrow into
the first quarter of 2011 with well-known and more frequent
issuers outperforming, making such Build Americas a good
investment opportunity,  Citigroup Inc.  analysts led by head
municipal strategist  George Friedlander  said in a Dec. 10
research note.  “Longer-term, we continue to believe that Build America
Bonds present one of the few pockets of value for investors in
taxable fixed income,” Citigroup said. “Both small and large
issues are likely to tighten in the first quarter of 2011, but
due to a lower liquidity premium, the larger names are likely to
outperform.”  New York City has sold about $2.17 billion of Build
Americas since the program began, Bloomberg data shows. The city
was the third-largest issuer of municipal debt in 2009 behind
 California  and  New York , according to data from Thomson Reuters.  ‘In the Market’  “We’re in the market pretty much every month or two,”
said  Alan Anders , deputy director of finance in the city’s
Office of Management and Budget.  The city’s Build Americas are part of a $1.18 billion
offering that includes $130 million in conventional taxables,
which are being sold competitively today, and $300 million in
tax-exempts.  Pricing on the city’s issue has been accelerated even
though the marketing strategy hasn’t been changed since the
Build America program’s setback, Scott Sieber, a spokesman for
Comptroller  John Liu , said in an e-mail.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
which is underwriting the offering, marketed the deal to both
domestic and international buyers, he said.  “While we do not try to time the market, we will take
advantage of current market conditions and look forward to a
successful sale this week,” Sieber said.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan, which is marketing
the city’s debt, didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.  U.S. Senator  Ron Wyden,  a Democrat from Oregon, who
previously led an unsuccessful bid to include a Build America
extension in the tax bill, offered an amendment yesterday
seeking to renew the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  