-- New York Fed Swaps Reformer Lubke Joins Goldman Sachs
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-12-14T22:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/new-york-fed-s-theo-lubke-joins-goldman-as-chief-regulatory-reform-officer.html
Theo Lubke , who served for 15 years
at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and headed its efforts
to reform the private derivatives market, joined Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., according to a memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  Lubke, 44, started this month as chief regulatory reform
officer in Goldman Sachs’ securities division, the memo said.
The newly-created role will allow Lubke to “work closely with
divisional and firm-wide leadership to implement regulatory
reform legislation,” according to the memo.  Michael DuVally , a
spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York, confirmed the document.  The most profitable securities firm in Wall Street history
is hiring Lubke five months after Congress mandated the
regulation of the $583 trillion over-the-counter derivatives
market after swaps complicated efforts to resolve the financial
crisis. The reforms threaten to cut the profit at dealers such
as Goldman Sachs because they will make swaps prices known to
the public.  In 2007, Lubke was appointed to his former role by  Timothy Geithner , now Treasury Secretary, who was then president of the
New York Fed. The central bank has pushed for changes in the
credit-default swap market since 2005, when Geithner became
concerned that an explosion of trading was threatening the
ability of banks and regulators to manage and monitor risks that
posed a threat to the financial system.  He was reassigned as a senior vice president at the New
York Fed in September to begin looking for a job outside the
bank, a person familiar with the matter said at the time.  Fed Statement  “The Federal Reserve and New York Fed have strict conflict
of interest policies for its staff, including departing
employees,” Jeffrey Smith, a spokesman for the New York Fed,
said in an e-mailed statement. “In this instance, as in all
cases, these policies were strictly followed.”  Senior Fed officials are prohibited for six months from
attending any meetings with the central bank or from any
contact with it on matters related to the area in which the
official worked, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Last year, Lubke criticized Wall Street’s control over the
OTC derivatives market, where credit-default, interest-rate and
other swaps are traded privately between banks and their
customers.  “It is simply unacceptable in today’s environment that the
design and structure of the OTC derivatives market can be
controlled by a handful of large dealers,” Lubke said at an
International Swaps and Derivatives Association conference in
Beijing in April 2009.  The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July, requires most
swaps to be guaranteed by clearinghouse and traded on exchanges
or similar systems. Public prices may lead to compressed
differences between what buyers and sellers want to pay for the
contracts, known as the bid-offer spread,  Howard Chen , a Credit
Suisse Group AG analyst in New York, wrote in a Dec. 7 note to
clients.  That could be combated by increases in the rate of swaps
trading and greater market efficiency that come from the new
regulations, Chen said in the note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 