-- New York State May Face Deficit Topping $11 Billion as Bonuses Set to Fall
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/new-york-state-may-face-deficit-topping-11-billion-as-bonuses-set-to-fall.html
New York  state’s deficit may be 22
percent wider than estimated by the Budget Division because tax
revenue, including from Wall Street bonuses, may be less than
expected.  The  division  has forecast a 13 percent increase in taxable
cash bonus payments to $39.7 billion, according to Erik Kriss, a
spokesman. By contrast, Options Group, an industry consultant,
estimates the annual payments will drop from a year earlier.
Capital gains revenue also may fall short of estimates.  “The next administration will have to contend with a
snowballing budget deficit that’s growing fast and picking up
speed,”  Dennis Tompkins , a spokesman for state Comptroller
 Thomas DiNapoli , said Dec. 10 by e-mail. “Next year’s deficit
could total $11 billion or more.”  Last week,  Morgan Stanley  told bankers and traders to
expect 10 percent to 30 percent smaller payouts than for 2009,
according to two people briefed on the matter. The compensation
pool for bankers and traders at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  fell 10
percent in this year’s first nine months, while at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  the amount available was 18 percent lower, according
to company reports last month.  At least $1 billion of the fiscal 2012 gap is a carryover
from the current year’s imbalance, Tompkins said. “Nothing has
been done to address that deficit and it doesn’t appear that the
Legislature is going to take any action,” he said.  Report in January  Tompkins declined to comment on Wall Street pay beyond what
DiNapoli said last month. The comptroller plans to issue a
report in January on securities-industry compensation, he said.  The decline in bonuses “is going to be street-wide,” said
 Michael Karp , the chief executive officer of Options Group, a
New York-based recruiting and compensation-consulting firm. His
company estimates overall pay for investment-banking and trading
employees at Wall Street firms will be down 22 percent to 28
percent from 2009.  The projected decline may occur as Wall Street’s largest
banks seek to cut costs and boost  stock prices , even as they are
set to close the second-biggest year for revenue, trailing only
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The five largest
U.S. firms by investment-banking and trading revenue are Goldman
Sachs, JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. , Morgan Stanley and  Bank of
America Corp. , which owns Merrill Lynch.  Hard to Estimate  “I like bonuses,”  Robert Megna , the state budget
director, said last month at an Albany hearing on next year’s
spending plan. He said it’s difficult to estimate revenue at the
end of the year because neither the amount of bonus payments nor
capital gains is known. Both are subject to state income taxes
at rates of as much as 8.97 percent.  Wall Street companies and workers accounted for about 15
percent of the state’s tax revenue in the 2010 fiscal year,
which ended March 31, down from 20 percent in years before the
financial crisis,  according  to DiNapoli.  The state estimates the growth in bonuses will produce $400
million in income-tax revenue, Kriss said. He didn’t immediately
respond to messages left after normal business hours seeking
comment about bonuses and the deficit.  Governor-elect  Andrew Cuomo  is required to present the
Legislature with a balanced budget by Feb. 1, a month after
taking office. The spending plan must cope with the loss of $5.4
billion of temporary economic-stimulus aid from federal sources,
as well as a chronic imbalance between revenue and spending. Tax
receipts are projected to grow 6.7 percent next year, or about
half the rate of spending under current mandates.  Projected Spending  After deferred spending in past years, school aid would
increase $2.9 billion, or 14.6 percent, next year, according to
budget  documents . Spending on Medicaid, the health-care program
for the indigent, would rise $5.7 billion, or 48 percent,
according to projections for operating expenses.  The state also may collect less than forecast in capital-
gains taxes, DiNapoli has said in a  report .  “There will be additional risks” to the state revenue
forecast if Congress extends the current 15 percent U.S.
capital-gains rate, he  said . Congress is debating a plan to
prevent taxes from rising next year. Current law calls for the
federal levy to jump to 20 percent on Jan. 1.  New York has estimated $200 million to $225 million in
additional revenue from investors accelerating sales to take
advantage of this year’s federal capital-gains rate, according
to Kriss. The Budget Division has projected a surge in capital
gains, to  $57.7 billion  in 2010 from $36.4 billion in 2009.  Extension Proposal  If lawmakers in Washington pass an extension of
unemployment benefits and a 2 percentage-point cut in employees’
Social Security taxes, also in the plan now being debated, state
revenue may increase because of increased retail sales,  taxed  at
4 percent, and from faster economic growth.  The tax accord may raise the nation’s gross domestic
product next year by as much as half a percentage point to about
3.1 percent, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan in New York.  Tom Porcelli , a senior economist at RBC
Capital Markets Corp. in New York, is increasing his growth
forecast for 2011 by one point, also to 3.1 percent, because of
the proposed tax bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  