-- CLP, Origin Buy NSW Power Assets for $5.3 Billion, Outbidding AGL Energy
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-12-15T09:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/new-south-wales-sells-5-3-billion-electricity-assets-to-origin-truenergy.html
CLP Holdings Ltd. , Hong Kong’s
biggest power supplier, and  Origin Energy Ltd.  won electricity
assets in Australia’s New South Wales state for $5.3 billion,
outbidding  AGL Energy Ltd.  to gain about 3 million customers.  TRUenergy Holdings Pty, a unit of CLP, is buying assets
including retailer EnergyAustralia for A$2.04 billion ($2.02
billion), the state government said today. Origin gains Country
Energy and Integral Energy, plus the right to sell output from
the state-owned Eraring power station, for A$3.25 billion.  The purchases will double the number of retail customers
CLP has in Australia to 2.8 million, while Sydney-based  Origin 
said it will become the country’s largest power supplier with a
more than 50 percent jump in users. The deal is the culmination
of a 12-year process that has caused division in the state and
contributed to the departures of two premiers since 2008.  “A lot of people said this day would never come,”
 Eric Roozendaal , treasurer of the country’s most populous state,
said at a media briefing in Sydney today.  Origin rose 1.8 percent to A$17.10 in Sydney by the 4:10
p.m. close. Rival power supplier  AGL , which fell the most in
almost two years yesterday after saying its bid failed, dropped
1.1 percent to A$14.91, extending the previous session’s 4.9
percent slump. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index was little
changed. CLP fell 1.1 percent to HK$63.25 in Hong Kong, as the
city’s Hang Seng Index dropped almost 2 percent.  ‘Cold Light of Day’  AGL said it will intensify a drive to lure business away
from competitors after missing out on the assets. The Sydney-
based company plans to more than double its customer base in New
South Wales, adding as many as 500,000 electricity accounts
during the next three years. AGL said its offers for state
assets were substantially below the successful bids.  “It’s always exciting to win, but when we see in the cold
light of day what we would have had to pay to acquire those
businesses, I’ve got no regrets whatsoever,” AGL Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Fraser  said on a conference call.  New South Wales said the sale will strengthen its finances,
increase competition in the electricity market and free
financial resources for schools, transportation and hospitals.  The state remains in talks on the potential sale of the
rights to trade power produced by Macquarie Generation and Delta
Coastal, known as “gentrader” contracts, and intends to
complete those transactions by February, Roozendaal said. New
South Wales had aimed to complete all the transactions by the
end of the year.  Midnight Agreement  The sale has been confronted by continued “challenges,”
Peter Achterstraat, the state Auditor-General, has said.  Nathan Rees  was ousted and replaced as premier by  Kristina Keneally  a
year ago, partly due to divisions within the governing Labor
Party over the transaction. Rees replaced  Morris Iemma  in 2008
after his failure to win approval for his asset-sale plan.  Discontent about the process persisted until the agreements
were completed around midnight last night. Eight directors
quit the boards of state power stations involved in the sale
after refusing to make a decision and finding that the trading
rights transactions were “not commercial,” Roozendaal said.  The power sale “was undertaken to ensure that taxpayers
would not be responsible for building future power generation,”
he said. “We’ve achieved that. We wanted a more competitive
retail market. We’ve achieved that. The retention value of these
assets is far below what we’ve received for them.”  Origin said it is paying A$1,282 to gain each customer.
That’s “more or less in line with previous deals,” said  Xavier Grunauer , a Sydney-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  ‘Golden Opportunity’  “I don’t think the market will be too worried about the
price,” he said. “It’s a golden opportunity to grab market
share. The key question is how much they will need to raise.”  Origin, also proceeding with plans for a liquefied natural
gas project in Queensland state, may seek to raise as much as
A$1.75 billion selling shares, according to Grunauer.  Country Energy and Integral Energy together were valued at
about A$1.8 billion, while the Eraring asset was worth A$1.1
billion, said  Marie Miyashiro , a Sydney-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc. She valued EnergyAustralia at A$1.3 billion.  “I think TRUenergy is the winner, even though they’ve
taken substantial risk by picking up customers that will be
aggressively chased by others,”  David Leitch , a Sydney-based
analyst at UBS AG in Sydney, said by phone today. “They become
a very viable third force in Australia.”  Buying EnergyAustralia and the rights to sell Delta West
power production will add HK$389 million ($50 million) to  CLP ’s
annual net income, 4 percent of estimated profit for the 2011
financial year, Citigroup estimated in a report. The deal takes
CLP’s Australian market share to about 20 percent, it said.  TRUenergy Listing  A TRUenergy spin off is more attractive after the
transaction, according to Citigroup. CLP, which also bought
three power station development sites, has been considering an
Australian initial public offering for TRUenergy, Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Brandler  said in September.  Origin, which will grow to 4.6 million customers, is
acquiring the retailers for A$2.3 billion and paying A$950
million for the Eraring asset, it said. The transactions are
expected to be completed by March 1.  Origin  plans to fund the deal with new debt that is
expected to be partly refinanced with a share offering within 12
months, it said.  The Sydney-based company has arranged an underwritten A$2.2
billion bridge loan maturing in one to two years, and a A$1.1
billion three-to five-year loan, also underwritten, that will be
marketed to other lenders in early 2011, according to a
presentation filed to the Australian stock exchange.  CLP Australia Finance  signed a A$1.6 billion revolving
acquisition loan due May 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 