-- New York City Area Has Among Longest U.S. Commutes, Census Estimates Show
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-14T18:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/new-york-metropolitan-area-has-the-longest-commutes-census-estimates-show.html
The New York City metropolitan area
is home to the three-longest average commutes among U.S.
mainland counties, U.S. Census Bureau  estimates  show.  Residents living in Richmond, Queens and Kings counties
recorded one-way commutes to work of more than 40 minutes, with
Richmond County’s 42.5 minutes being the longest. The estimates
are a five-year average compiled from 2005-2009 surveys,
according to the Census Bureau. The data,  released  today, is the
last measure of the American lifestyle by the federal government
before the 2010 census count is released.  King County in Texas recorded the nation’s shortest average
commute at 3.4 minutes, the estimates show. The national average
for workers 16 years and older was 25.2 minutes.  The five-year period covered in the survey saw the average
price of gasoline fluctuate and more than double from January
2005 to June 2008, according to the U.S.  Energy Information
Administration .  “It seemed that $3 was a real price point, enough to
convince people to change their behavior,” said Virginia
Miller, spokeswoman for the  American Public Transportation
Association , a Washington-based advocacy group.  $1.83 a Gallon  The average retail price of gasoline in January 2005 was
$1.83 per gallon, according to the agency. It topped $3 a gallon
in May 2007 and exceeded $4 a gallon in June 2008.  During that time period, public transit agencies initially
reported ridership increases. As unemployment increased, the
number of passenger trips dropped 3.8 percent between 2008 and
2009, the public transportation association’s  data  shows. The
national unemployment rate rose from 5 percent in January 2008
to 10 percent in December 2009.  The commuting times come from the  American Community
Survey , which is being used to replace the so-called long-form
census questionnaire that had asked detailed questions every
decade.  Other mainland U.S. counties with average one-way commutes
of more than 40 minutes include Pike County, Pennsylvania; Craig
County, Virginia; Bronx County, New York; Elbert County,
Colorado; Park County, Colorado; Charles County, Maryland; and
Catahoula Parish, Louisiana.  Los Angeles County  Los Angeles County, California, home to the nation’s
second-largest city by population, recorded an average of 29
minutes, while Cook County, Illinois, home to the third-largest
city, Chicago, averaged 31.9 minutes.  It is often the counties outside the central-city counties
that record the longest commutes. For example, McHenry County,
Illinois, outside Chicago, averaged 33.7 minutes.  Counties outside Washington also recorded some of the
longest commutes in the nation. The average commute in Calvert
County, Maryland, was 39.3 minutes, while Prince William County,
Virginia, recorded 39.1 minutes.  The American Community Survey is designed to complement the
decennial count and provide more timely annual data. The data
released today included smaller geographic areas and covered
topics ranging from commute times to languages spoken at home to
housing values. The questionnaire and results are on the
bureau’s  website .  The census estimates come with varying margins of error for
each county, so the exact order of any rankings could be
slightly different.  Today’s data is being released a week ahead of the official
national and state counts from the 2010 census that will be used
to redistribute seats in Congress and influence how $4 trillion
in government funds are distributed over 10 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at  
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  