-- New York Region's Temperatures Drop as Cold Air Moves in From U.S. Midwest
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-12-14T20:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/new-york-region-s-temperatures-drop-as-cold-air-moves-in-from-u-s-midwest.html
New York City temperatures will be
almost 20 degrees below normal today, the lowest of the new
winter season, and cold air is expected to linger through mid-
week, according to the National Weather Service.  The high temperature in New York is forecast to be 26
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 3 Celsius), said David Wally, a
weather service meteorologist in  Upton, New York . Yesterday’s
high in Central Park was 49.  A light snow fell overnight in some parts of the city, and
winds gusting to 31 mph caused  delays of almost an hour  at
LaGuardia Airport and New Jersey’s Newark Liberty International.  “This is the coldest shot we have seen so far this
season,” Wally said by telephone. “It is going to be very cold
and blustery and very winter-like for the next few days.”  While winter officially begins Dec. 21, the
“meteorological winter” forecasters use for reference covers
the entire month, as well as January and February, Wally said.  The cold air caused air-travel delays over the weekend and
brought heavy snow to the U.S. Midwest, where it caused the
collapse of the inflatable roof over Minneapolis’s Metrodome.  Flights Canceled  One to 3 inches of snow fell from Long Island to parts of
the Bronx, Wally said, while other areas received a dusting.
Delta Air Lines Inc., AMR Corp.’s American Airlines, US Airways
Group Inc. and other carriers reported canceling a total of 45
flights in the New York area today because of high winds and
below-freezing temperatures.  From July 1 through yesterday, New York’s  heating degree
days  value has been 1100, or 59 below normal, meaning the
weather so far has been milder than average. Heating degree
days, calculated by subtracting the daily average temperature
from a base of 65 degrees, is designed to show energy demand,
according to the weather service.  The larger the  value , the cooler the weather, and thus the
more energy is probably being used to heat homes and businesses.  In Chicago, the value since July 1 is 1,618 or 113 below
normal, according to the weather service. In Boston, the figure
is 1,305 or 96 below normal; in Baltimore it’s 1,158 or 83 below
normal; and in Cleveland it’s 1,529 or 78 below normal.  Natural gas for January delivery fell 16.5 cents, or 3.7
percent, to $4.255 per million British thermal units on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement price since Nov.
30. Prices have declined 24 percent this year.  Cold Stretch  Below-normal temperatures will continue throughout the
eastern U.S. for the foreseeable future, said  Tom Kines , a
meteorologist with commercial forecaster  AccuWeather Inc.  in
State College, Pennsylvania.  “The cold may ease for a time mid-to-late in the week but
there is no spring warmth coming,” Kines said. “Most of our
temperatures will stay below normal.”  Kines said a storm system will move across the U.S. later
this week, although it won’t be much of a threat to cities along
the Interstate-95 corridor, such as Philadelphia, New York and
Boston. While a second system arriving over the weekend has more
potential to bring some snow to the Northeast, Kines said he
isn’t counting on that one, either.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 