-- Nigeria May Drop Charges Against Cheney, Halliburton
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-12-14T17:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/nigeria-may-drop-cheney-corruption-charges-after-talks-with-halliburton.html
Nigeria may drop charges against
former U.S. Vice President  Dick Cheney  and companies including
 Halliburton Co. , where he was chief executive officer until
2000, the prosecuting attorney for the country’s anti-graft
agency said.  After “fruitful discussions” with officials of
Halliburton and its former KBR unit in London last week, the
 Economic and Financial Crimes Commission  is “awaiting further
instructions” from the justice minister about whether to drop
the charges related to a bribery scandal,  Godwin Obla  said
yesterday in a telephone interview in Abuja, the capital. He
didn’t provide details of the discussions.  Halliburton offered to pay $120 million in fines and
repatriate an additional $130 million to Nigeria,  Femi Babafemi ,
a spokesman for the agency known as EFCC, said by telephone
today in Abuja. Tara Mullee, a spokeswoman for Halliburton
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Heather Browne , a spokeswoman for KBR, said by e-mail today that the
company has no comment.  Nigeria , Africa’s biggest crude producer, alleges that the
companies, which were part of group known as TSKJ, paid $180
million in bribes to Nigerian officials between 1994 and 2004 to
win a $6 billion liquefied natural gas plant contract.  Nigerian prosecutors filed charges on Dec. 8 for alleged
bribery against Cheney; Albert “Jack” Stanley, ex-chairman of
KBR Inc., a former unit of Halliburton; current CEO  William Utt ;
and Halliburton CEO  David Lesar ; according to court documents.
Companies charged include  Technip SA  of France, Snamprogetti
SpA, a unit of Eni SpA, KBR and  JGC Corp.  of Japan.  Fines and Settlements  KBR agreed in February 2009 to pay a $402 million fine
after admitting it bribed Nigerian officials, while Halliburton
paid $177 million to settle allegations by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission without admitting wrongdoing.  Nigeria arrested at least 23 officials last month,
including 11 from Halliburton and the CEO of Saipem
Construction, a local unit of Rome-based Eni. Those detained
were all freed on bail on Nov. 29.  Eni, Technip and JGC are in talks with Nigerian prosecutors
to settle the corruption charges, the country’s anti-graft
agency said on Dec. 7.  Technip took a charge of 245 million euros ($342 million)
related to its stake in TSKJ and discussed “resolution of all
potential claims” with the U.S. Justice Department and the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Paris-based company said
on Feb. 12.  An aide of former Nigerian President  Olusegun Obasanjo  was
charged with six counts of money-laundering in Abuja on Oct. 13
in connection with the alleged payment of bribes.  The case is Federal Republic of Nigeria v. Halliburton and
others, CV/435/10, High Court of Justice, Abuja Judicial
Division (Abuja).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 