-- NII Buys Brazil Airwaves for $715 Million to Fight Telefonica, Carlos Slim
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-12-14T19:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/nii-pays-715-million-for-brazil-wireless-airwaves-to-take-on-telefonica.html
NII Holdings Inc. , operator of the
Nextel brand in Latin America, paid 1.21 billion reais ($715
million) in a Brazilian government auction to gain airwaves to
compete with  Telefonica SA  and  America Movil SAB  for users of
high-speed wireless Internet.  NII won 11 of 13 lots in the auction, giving it 20
megahertz of airwaves in the 1.9 and 2.1 gigahertz bands across
most of Brazil, according to results released today by
telecommunications regulator Anatel. The lots include coverage
of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Brasilia.  The airwaves will double the growth potential of NII in
Brazil by making the company a national competitor,  Sergio Chaia , president of its Brazilian unit, told reporters today in
Brasilia. The company plans to invest as much as 5 billion reais
over five years on its expansion.  “It’s a promising market,” Chaia said. Only 8 percent of
Brazilians use wireless high-speed Internet, he said. “Nextel
sees room to grow in this area.”  NII will add the data service to its network as soon as
possible, he said, without providing a date. The company will
pay for the expansion with cash and financing from Brazil’s
national development bank, known as BNDES, Chaia said.  The network expansion will probably take two to three
years, said  Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., in a note to clients today.  ‘Significant Positive’  “It gives them a material spectrum position in the largest
market in Latin America,” said King, who is based in Baltimore
and recommends buying NII shares. “We view this as a
significant positive.”  Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA , Brazil’s fourth-largest
wireless carrier, and Cia. de Telecomunicacoes do Brasil Central
SA, the fifth-largest, each won a single lot of airwaves in less
populous regions. The auction is continuing today with airwaves
in other frequencies.  NII’s auction wins represent progress in its plan to begin
offering third-generation services such as video downloads
throughout Latin America. The company has a 3G network in Peru
and is planning to build networks in Chile and Mexico, where it
won airwaves in an auction that ended in July.  Larger carriers weren’t allowed to participate in bidding
for many of the lots because they already have similar airwaves
covering parts of the country. The carriers are eligible for the
bidding on airwaves in other frequencies.  Rival Carriers  Vivo Telecomunicacoes SA , controlled by Madrid-based
Telefonica, is Brazil’s biggest wireless carrier with 30 percent
of the nation’s 194 million total subscribers as of October,
according to Anatel.  America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , is
second with 26 percent, followed by Telecom Italia SpA’s Tim
Participacoes and Rio de Janeiro-based Tele Norte Leste.  Carriers have gravitated to Brazil, Latin America’s largest
economy and biggest wireless market by subscribers, because it
still offers growth even after the number of wireless lines
surpassed the population in October. Subscriptions rose 15
percent in September from a year earlier, compared with growth
of about 8.5 percent in Mexico, Latin America’s second-biggest
economy, in the same span.  NII, based in Reston, Virginia, gained $1.16, or 2.7
percent, to $44.13 at 2:36 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. The shares had advanced 28 percent this year
before today.  At the end of last quarter, NII had 3.1 million subscribers
in Brazil, its second-largest market after Mexico, where it had
3.3 million clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carla Simoes  in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  