-- Nissan, Mitsubishi Motors to Set Up Minicar Company, Expand Supply Accord
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2010-12-14T08:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/nissan-mitsubishi-motors-to-set-up-minicar-company-expand-supply-accord.html
Nissan Motor Co.  and  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp.  will set up a 50-50 joint company next year to
develop minicars that may become strategic models sold globally.  The minicar would be available for sale in 2012 under the
agreement, while Nissan will supply a light van and wagon to
Mitsubishi in Japan. Mitsubishi will sell a sport-utility
vehicle to Nissan in the Middle East, the automakers said today
in a joint statement.  “This agreement is important for Nissan as it supports our
expansion in emerging markets, meets immediate capacity needs
overseas and enables us to grow our minicar business in Japan,”
Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in a statement.  The partnership gives the manufacturers greater economies
of scale while allowing them to enter market segments with less
investment. The two carmakers already cooperate by supplying
minicars, with engines no larger than 660cc, and commercial
vehicles. Nissan, which makes the Leaf electric car, and
Mitsubishi, which sells the i-MiEV, are in talks about possibly
cooperating on electric vehicles, the automakers said.  “The alliance of the two automakers seems to be a good one
as we can expect more cooperation in electric vehicles going
forward,” said Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at consulting company
Carnorama in Tokyo.  Ghosn today said that no details have been decided on
electric car cooperation with Mitsubishi Motors. Mitsubishi
Motors President  Osamu Masuko  today said it is possible that the
minicars could become a global strategic model.  Market Reaction  “The alliance seems to help Mitsubishi Motors, and the
market reacted ahead of the press conference,” said Kenichi
Hirano, general manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities
Co.  Mitsubishi Motors  surged  8.5 percent to 128 yen at the 3
p.m. close of Tokyo trading, the biggest gain since Dec. 3,
2009.  Nissan  shares  gained 0.3 percent to 809 yen.  Nissan currently produces the Lancer Cargo commercial
vehicle for Mitsubishi, which in turn builds the Minicab, Town
Box, eKWagon and Pajero Mini models for the larger carmaker.  Mitsubishi Motors plans to build Nissan’s Navara pickup
truck at its factory in Thailand and the automakers are
evaluating a plan to collaborate on manufacturing and
engineering for a new one-ton pickup, they said today.  “The expansion of the agreement will complement each
other’s regional characteristics and product lineup and the one-
ton pickup and minicar projects will be the best solution to
strengthen each other’s competitiveness,” Mitsubishi Motors’
Masuko said today.  Mitsubishi has a partnership with PSA Peugeot Citroen,
while Nissan and Renault SA share projects with Daimler AG, the
world’s second-biggest luxury carmaker.  The Nikkei newspaper reported the Nissan-Mitsubishi
agreement earlier today. The companies’ statement was released
after markets closed in Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  