-- Nokia Delays First E7 Smartphone Shipments Until 2011
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-12-14T15:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/nokia-delays-first-e7-smartphone-shipments-to-2011.html
Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, will postpone the first shipments of the E7
smartphone until early next year, after missing an earlier
deadline for handsets using the Symbian operating system.  “We just wanted to make sure it’s the best product
possible in both hardware and software,” Carol Soriano, a
spokeswoman for the Espoo, Finland-based  company , said by phone.
Only a few markets were originally supposed to receive E7s this
year, Soriano said, without specifying any locations.  The E7 is the most complex of Nokia’s latest series of
handsets using a new version of the Symbian operating system.
Intended to appeal to earlier users of Nokia’s Communicator line
and Qwerty-keyboard phones, it has both a touchscreen and a
slide-out keypad, and gives business users access to corporate
applications using the Microsoft Exchange program.  “This is a clear disappointment and again proves that
certain things are just not right at Nokia,” said  Sami Sarkamies , a Helsinki-based analyst at Nordea Bank. “Recent
communication has been that they would start shipping in
December as promised. We’re talking about an image loss,
however, as this isn’t a volume model and wouldn’t have had a
major impact on the fourth quarter.”  Nokia  fell  as much as 1.9 percent to 7.34 euros and was
down 0.9 percent as of 5:17 p.m. in Helsinki trading. The stock
has dropped 17 percent this year.  Nokia’s lead in smartphones narrowed in the third quarter
to a 33.7 percent unit-based market share compared with 39.3
percent last year, according to Gartner Inc. Handphones using
Google Inc.’s Android accounted for 25.5 percent of the
quarter’s smartphone shipments, while Apple Inc. held 16.7
percent, Gartner said.  Bad PR  Nokia struggled this year to revamp Symbian while also
preparing devices running a new platform called MeeGo. Shipments
of the first device with the new Symbian, the N8, squeaked out
on the last day of the third quarter rather than the first half
of this year as planned. Nokia has also delayed MeeGo devices
until next year after promising them for the second half.  “Once again it’s bad PR for the company,” said  Michael Schroeder , an analyst at FIM Bank in Helsinki. “With the
majority of profits generated from high-end devices like the E7,
this will also postpone the positive results contribution.”  Interface Upgrades  The company is rolling out features including a vertical
on-screen keyboard and swipe-keyboard input to recently
introduced Symbian phones after Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Elop  said in October that user-interface upgrades wouldn’t
necessarily wait for new hardware.  “We’ve shipped a lot of Symbian devices in the past few
months and we just want to make sure the next one we come out
with is the best it can be,” Soriano said.  “Given Symbian’s inferior user experience and interface
compared to iPhone and Android, execution risk will likely be
even higher in 2011,”  Zahid Hussein , an analyst at Citigroup,
wrote in a report. “We believe competitive high-end MeeGo
devices will be pushed out until the second half of 2011 at the
earliest.”  Nokia said last month that it was working to fix a powering
fault affecting a “limited number” of the N8, the first model
in the line. The E7’s delivery postponement isn’t related to the
power issue affecting the N8, Soriano said in an e-mail today.  ‘Cannibalizing Effects’  Nokia may have wanted to include the upcoming Symbian
updates in the E7 from the beginning, Nordea’s Sarkamies said.
Nokia may also be improving the mechanical keyboard operation
and enterprise software from the prerelease version, he said.  The absence of the E7 during the holiday season could
“marginally” affect Nokia’s fourth-quarter smartphone
shipments and selling price, Citigroup’s Hussein said.  The E7 was introduced at the Nokia World trade show on
Sept. 14 at a list price of 495 euros ($662) before taxes and
operator subsidies.  “Some Finnish handset distributors are now indicating E7
availability the week of March 8 and if this coincides with the
launch of Nokia’s MeeGo device it could have cannibalizing
effects,” FIM’s Schroeder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  