-- Chanting French Nuns Top Charts, Share Label With Lady Gaga, Amy Winehouse
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-12-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/nuns-monks-bring-latin-habit-to-lady-gaga-eminem-music-stable.html
Lady Gaga  isn’t the only chart-
topping convent girl. A  singing sister act  from rural southern
France has taken No.1 slots on both sides of the Atlantic as the
industry signs up nuns, monks and other niche acts.  The Benedictine Nuns of Notre-Dame  topped U.S. and U.K.
classical charts with their album “Voices: Chant From Avignon”
on  Universal Music Group ’s  Decca Records  after a search for
female Gregorian chanters. Forbidden from leaving the convent,
the women shot the album cover and TV commercial and signed the
record deal by passing papers under a grill that divides them
from the outside world.  The nuns now share a record company with artists such as
Lady Gaga, who was educated at New York’s Convent of the Sacred
Heart,  Elton John , Eminem and  Amy Winehouse . The sisters are
part of a wave of singing fishermen, soldiers and painters that
record companies are courting to appeal to an older, often-
ignored audience that’s accustomed to paying for music and not
downloading it illegally.  “This is part of the reality of selling music in the 21st
century,” said  Mark Mulligan , a music industry analyst at
Forrester Research. “You go after every little niche you can
get. There’s also a genuine recognition that labels can’t afford
not to pay attention to this segment anymore.”  Record companies are cashing in on such acts with a flurry
of releases this Christmas season, including the nuns and music
from  The Chelsea Pensioners  and  The Great British Barbershop
Boys . About 25 percent of all albums are sold in December,
according to the British Recorded Music Industry trade
organization.  ‘Silent Majority’  The releases are “valuable, short-term” drivers of
revenue, Mulligan said. “People are used to buying music at
Christmas time and they tend to be older. The only way to pull
in people drifting out of the CD market is by offering novelty
Christmas acts.”  The buyers are a “silent majority,” said  Costa Pilavachi ,
Universal Music’s senior vice president for classical artists
and repertoire. “This public is paying for music and used to
doing so.”  As the number of people buying physical copies of CDs
declines, the music industry is struggling to curb illegal
downloading of songs. The practice reached an all-time high in
2009, according to the  International Federation of the
Phonographic Industry.   ‘Well-Practiced’ Nuns  Record companies are backing legal music streaming sites
such as  Spotify ,  MySpace Music  and  We7  and urging governments to
pass laws requiring Internet providers to penalize repeat
illegal downloaders. Even so, the worldwide music market shrunk
30 percent from 2004 to $17.2 billion in 2009.  The French nuns, who released their debut in November,
“were keen for people to hear what great singers they are,”
said Dickon Stainer, president of Decca Records U.K. “They sing
seven times a day so they are pretty well-practiced.”  In 2008, Decca signed a group of chanting Austrian monks,
 The Cistercian Monks of Stift Heiligenkreuz , who went on to sell
more than 1 million copies and have their own HBO documentary
airing in the U.S. on Dec. 22. Their debut came at the height of
the banking crisis and the act was promoted as an “antidote to
stress,” Stainer said.  The idea to record and market such niche acts isn’t new.
The  Coldstream Guards , whose duties include protecting London’s
Buckingham Palace, first recorded music 50 years ago, he said.
The group last Christmas released the album “Heroes,” which
reached the U.K. pop chart’s Top 10.  Welsh Male Choir  One of most popular hobby acts in the U.K. is the  Fron Male
Voice Choir  from northern Wales, which has sold more than 1
million albums since its debut four years ago. The group of
about  70 men , aged from 18 to the mid-80s, was discovered by the
manager of a boy band. The choir has topped the classical charts
in the U.K. and Australia and been nominated for four Brit
classical awards, the U.K.’s version of the Grammys.  The Welsh choir has released four albums, a calendar and
toured the U.K., Poland, Cyprus and parts of the U.S. and
Canada. A film about the group joining Universal Music is also
in the works.  “Our sound and music fit a niche in the market and they
quickly fastened on to the fact there is a market out there of
older people,” Dave Jones, chairman of the Fron choir, said by
phone. Jones, 61, has kept his day job as a prison officer while
recording music.  Barbershop Boys, Doo-Wop  Other acts gaining steam include  The Great British
Barbershop Boys , four men from northern England who signed a 1
million-pound ($1.59 million) contract with  Sony Music
Entertainment  in October. Their collection of Christmas songs
was released this month on Sony’s  Arista Records .  The Overtones , a group of doo-wop singers who previously
worked as painters and decorators, were discovered rehearsing on
a tea break in London and were later offered a deal with  Warner
Music Group Corp.   Warner Music Group ’s Rhino Records released The Chelsea
Pensioners’ debut album “Men in Scarlet” last month, which has
since gone gold, said  Dan Chalmers , managing director of  Rhino
Records U.K.  The pensioners are former members of the British
Army who live at Royal Hospital Chelsea, a retirement and
nursing home in London.  The Soldiers, another act signed by Rhino, is a trio of
British servicemen who went double platinum last December with
their debut album “Coming Home.”  “It’s an important area of our business,” Chalmers said.
“Pensioners and soldiers, these are people with real-life jobs
and they put a lot of effort into music. People have a
connection with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 