-- NY Yankees Re-Sign Relief Pitcher Mariano Rivera to Two-Year Contract
-- B y   L a r r y   S i d d o n s
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/ny-yankees-re-sign-relief-pitcher-mariano-rivera-to-two-year-contract.html
Reliever  Mariano Rivera  remained
with the New York Yankees, signing a two-year contract to join
shortstop  Derek Jeter  as members of the team’s so-called Core
Four veteran All-Stars to sign new deals.  The signing of Rivera, the American League’s career saves
leader with 559, was announced yesterday by the Yankees in a
news release one day after they were spurned by free-agent
starter  Cliff Lee .  The $30 million contract will give Rivera $15 million in
each of the next two seasons, the Associated Press reported.
Rivera, 41, an 11-time All-Star, also made $15 million in each
of the past three seasons.  The right-hander has been with the Yankees since 1995 and
their top reliever since 1997. With a pitching arsenal built
around a cut fastball that can break bats in two, Rivera has
helped the Yankees to five World Series championships.  This past season, Rivera recorded 33 saves in 61
appearances, with a 3-3 record and a 1.80 earned run average. He
is second in Major League Baseball history to  Trevor Hoffman ’s
601 regular-season saves. His 42 saves and 0.71 ERA are both
postseason records. His career ERA of 2.23 is the lowest among
active major leaguers with a minimum of 1,000 innings pitched.  Core Four  He is one of four players who have been at the heart of the
Yankees’ run of success since the mid-1990s, with playoff berths
every year but one since Rivera’s rookie season.  Catcher  Jorge Posada  has a year left on his contract, and
the Yankees are waiting to hear if left-handed starting pitcher
 Andy Pettitte  wants to return or retire.  Jeter, the Yankees’ 36-year-old team captain, agreed on a
contract that will keep him in pinstripes as he chases his
3,000th career hit next season and on through at least 2013.
Jeter’s contract is worth between $15 million and $17 million
annually, according to the New York Times.  Major League Baseball reported on its website yesterday
that the Yankees had agreed to terms with free-agent catcher
 Russell Martin , 27, who hit .248 with five home runs and 26 runs
batted in during an injury-shortened 2010 season for the Los
Angeles Dodgers.  While the negotiations with Jeter were publicly
contentious, with agent  Casey Close  and Yankees General Manager
 Brian Cashman  exchanging barbs, the re-signing of Rivera had
just one question -- whether he would stay in the Bronx for one
more year or two.  Lee, the most sought-after pitcher on the free-agent
market, has agreed to sign with the Philadelphia Phillies
instead of the Yankees or Texas Rangers, said a Major League
Baseball official who requested anonymity because the deal isn’t
complete.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Larry Siddons  in New York at 
 lsiddons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  