-- Obama Said to Meet Gates, Buffett on Boosting Economy
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-12-14T18:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/obama-said-to-meet-gates-buffett-at-white-house-on-ways-to-boost-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  met with
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc . Chairman  Warren Buffett  and  Microsoft
Corp . co-founder  Bill Gates  this morning at the White House to
discuss the economy and the billionaires’ philanthropic
endeavors, an administration official said.  Obama called for the Oval Office meeting, which also
included Gates’ wife, Melinda, to discuss the  Giving Pledge 
project, started by Buffett and Gates to encourage wealthy U.S.
individuals and families to give most of their fortunes to
charity, the administration official said, speaking on condition
of anonymity.  They also talked about U.S. economic competitiveness,
including boosting investments in education, the official said.  The meeting with Gates and Buffett comes on the eve of
Obama’s summit with about 20 business leaders including General
Electric Co. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt 
and Google Inc. Chairman and CEO  Eric Schmidt  to discuss issues
related to economic growth including exports, regulation, the
budget deficit. The U.S. education system also is on the agenda
for that meeting.  Buffett, 80, has committed 99 percent of his fortune,
estimated by Forbes in September at $45 billion, in donations
that are scheduled to continue after his death. His gifts to
charities, including the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, fund
programs aimed at easing world hunger, boosting education in the
U.S. and promoting access to abortions.  Gates, 55, and Buffett have signed up Facebook Inc.’s  Mark Zuckerberg , Oracle Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison 
and filmmaker  George Lucas  for the Giving Pledge. In September,
Buffett and Gates traveled to China and met with some of the
country’s richest people to discuss philanthropy.  The number of Giving Pledge participants in the U.S. has
risen to 57 since the project was announced in June, according
to a Dec. 9 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  