-- Odebrecht Reviving Loan Market as Overseas Bond Yields Rise: Brazil Credit
-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2010-12-14T11:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/odebrecht-reviving-loan-market-as-yields-rise-brazil-credit.html
Odebrecht SA and Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA plan to borrow using syndicated loans next year
to finance investment, a sign the market for bank credit may
rebound after sinking to a five-year low of $4.7 billion.  Eletrobras, as Latin America’s largest utility is known,
may take loans after selling bonds abroad as it seeks to boost
investment 50 percent to $9 billion in 2011, Chief Financial
Officer  Armando Casado  said. Odebrecht Engenharia e Construcao,
the engineering and construction unit of Odebrecht, is
considering loans after benchmark corporate bond yields climbed
48 basis points, or 0.48 percentage point, since November to a
12-week high of 6.12 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Syndicated loans are an excellent opportunity when the
window of opportunity is closed for bonds,” Jayme Gomes da
Fonseca Jr., chief financial officer of the Odebrecht unit in
Salvador, Brazil, said in a telephone interview. “It helps free
up credit limits with the entry of various banks.”  The planned borrowing may help corporate loans in Brazil
more than double in 2011 to $10 billion, according to  Conrado Lautenberg , the head of syndicated debt at  Banco Santander SA’s 
local unit in Sao Paulo. Bank loans to companies fell 64 percent
this year and are down from a record $30 billion in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. corporate loan
issuance rose 86 percent from 2009 to $880 billion.  Brazilian companies paid an interest rate of between 200
and 225 basis points more than the London interbank offered rate
for five-year loans this year, down from 300 basis points in
2009, Lautenberg said. Libor is the rate banks charge to lend to
each other.  ‘Alternatives’  “There’s room for rates to fall more in 2011 because of
greater competition between banks and less country risk,”
Casado said in a telephone interview from New York. “We’re
going to go back to the overseas markets, first with a bond sale
and then, looking for alternatives, such as syndicated loans.”  Eletrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, plans to sell $1
billion of 10-year bonds at the beginning of 2011, Casado said.
The yield on the company’s 6.875 percent bonds due in 2019
jumped 71 basis points since Nov. 4 to 4.74 percent, according
to Bloomberg data.  A sovereign debt crisis in Europe and rising U.S. Treasury
yields are driving up borrowing costs for emerging-market
issuers. Brazilian bond issuance dropped last month after rising
borrowing costs forced Ireland to seek an 85 billion-euro
($113.7 billion) bailout from European governments and the
International Monetary Fund and sparked concern the region’s
debt crisis may spread to Spain and Portugal.  The  yield  on the 10-year U.S. note climbed 49 basis points
in the past month to 3.28 percent.  Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 3 basis points to 169 at 6
a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years was little changed at 111, according to CMA prices.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell 4 basis points to 11.90 percent.  The real gained 0.1 percent to 1.6916 per U.S. dollar.  Brazilian oil and gas companies may lead the push for loan
financing next year to fund investment plans, according to Banco
Santander’s Lautenberg.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the state-controlled oil producer,
plans to spend $224 billion through 2014, the biggest investment
plan in the oil industry, to develop the country’s so-called
pre-salt reserves. The oil deposits are located beneath a layer
of salt resting as deep as 3,000 meters (9,800 feet) beneath the
ocean surface and another 5,000 meters below the seabed.  ‘Back For Good’  “Syndicated loans are coming back for good,” Lautenberg
said in a telephone interview. “They are of interest for banks
that aren’t very leveraged and need to increase their credit
operations and portfolios.”  Fibria Celulose SA, the world’s largest pulp producer, took
out a $600 million, seven-year loan to refinance debt, paying
280 basis points more than Libor, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron-ore miner, borrowed $1.23
billion to buy 12 ships, the largest syndicated loan by a
Brazilian company this year, according to Bloomberg data. Bank
of China and the Export-Import Bank of China arranged the loan
for Rio de Janeiro-based Vale.  ‘Never Imagined’  Brazilian companies are paying as much as 100 basis points
less for loans than their similarly rated European peers as more
banks around the world compete to lend to them, according to
 Antonio Bizzo , head of Europe, Middle East and Africa at  Banco
do Brasil SA , Latin America’s biggest bank by assets.  “It’s a situation we’ve never seen before,” he said in an
interview from London. “Foreign banks are setting new limits
for Brazil, as much for country risk as for corporate risk.
Banks we never imagined, medium-sized banks, European ones,
Asian ones, are taking corporate risk when they would never take
it before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Oliveira  in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  