-- Crude Oil Falls From a Four-Day High After Decline in Heating-Oil Futures
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-12-14T06:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/oil-trades-near-four-day-high-before-report-that-may-show-stocks-declined.html
Oil fell from a four-day high in New
York after heating-oil futures declined because of concern that
a spell of frigid weather in the U.S. will be less severe than
forecast, reducing fuel demand.  Heating oil dropped as much as 0.4 percent today after
reaching a two-day high as Florida declared a state of emergency
amid severe cold that could damage crops, and as a snowstorm
battered the Midwest. U.S. gasoline inventories probably
increased for a fourth week, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  “A series of bearish inventory numbers, specifically on
heating-oil products going forward, wouldn’t be bullish for the
market,” said  Mark Keenan , chief investment officer at Cubit
Asset Management Pte in Singapore. “Although it’s very cold at
the moment, the short- to medium-term weather reports are
looking for a little bit of relief on that. A weaker heating-oil
market was a bit of a catalyst.”  The January contract fell as much as 48 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $88.13 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $88.46 a barrel at 2:04 p.m.
Singapore time. Prices are up 11 percent this year.  Futures rose 0.9 percent to $88.61 a barrel yesterday, the
highest close since Dec. 7, after China said its refineries ran
at record rates last month, bolstering optimism that the world’s
biggest energy user will increase its oil demand.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S.  crude stockpiles  probably dropped to the lowest since
July 9, according to the median of 11 analysts’ estimates before
tomorrow’s energy report.  Oil inventories fell 2.6 million barrels in the seven days
to Dec. 10, the survey showed. Supplies of distillate fuel, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, probably slipped
1 million barrels from 160.2 million.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 10:30 a.m. on Dec. 15 in Washington. The industry-
funded American Petroleum Institute will publish its own
estimates today.  The dollar traded near a one-week low against the yen amid
speculation that the Federal Reserve will signal it’s open to
increasing debt purchases beyond the $600 billion already
announced. The Fed’s policy makers are scheduled to meet today.  ‘Muted’ Effect  “Ultimately a weaker dollar is generally supportive of
commodities because it makes it cheaper for places like China,”
Cubit Asset’s Keenan said. “With the government trying to rein
in activity in China, maybe that effect will be a little muted
this time.”  Crude prices may rise above $100 a barrel by the second
half of next year as U.S. demand recovers and global inventories
decline, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in its 2011 commodities
outlook, dated yesterday.  Brent crude for January settlement fell as much as 50
cents, or 0.6 percent, to $90.69 a barrel on the ICE Futures
exchange in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  