-- One Company Holds at Least 90% of LME Copper Stocks
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2010-12-14T20:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/one-company-holds-at-least-90-of-london-metal-exchange-copper-stockpiles.html
One unidentified company holds 90
percent or more of copper stockpiles in warehouses monitored by
the London Metal Exchange, the latest bourse data shows.  The so-called dominant position indicated in the Warrant
Cash Banding Report was previously 50 percent to 79 percent and
moved to the higher band on Dec. 10, according to data from the
bourse. The figure includes stockpile holdings and open
positions for the next three trading days. Each warrant
represents one lot of metal, equal to 25 metric tons.  The fee to borrow copper for next-day delivery, also known
as the tom-next spread, jumped to a premium of as much as $13
today, the most since July 2009. It was last at a discount of 50
cents. LME rules oblige holders of dominant positions to lend
metal at fixed rates.  “The dominant long is even longer than they were
previously, and it’s having an impact,”  Robin Bhar , an analyst
at Credit Agricole SA’s investment-banking unit in London, said
by phone today. “It’s forcing short-term rates to borrow metal
to go higher.”  The bourse’s lending guidance applies to a separate notice,
called the Warrant Banding Report. That comprises of stockpiles
and open positions for the next two trading days. The dominant
position in that report was still at 50 percent to 79 percent on
Dec. 10.  Copper prices climbed to a record in London today and have
jumped 24 percent this year on speculation miners and recyclers
aren’t producing enough supply to keep up with demand. The
shortage will widen to 500,000 metric tons next year from
200,000 tons this year, BNP Paribas SA said in a report today.  Stockpiles in warehouses monitored by the LME fell 30
percent to 350,900 tons this year. Copper for delivery in three
months, the benchmark contract, dropped 0.7 percent to $9,165 a
ton in London, after earlier reaching a record $9,267.50. That
would value 90 percent of LME monitored stockpiles at about $2.9
billion.  The current situation in the copper market is “not unusual
and the exchange is exercising its well-established procedures
for maintaining an orderly market,”  Diarmuid O’Hegarty , deputy
chief executive officer of the LME, said in a comment e-mailed
by the exchange.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. was holding the dominant position in
copper, the Daily Telegraph reported on Dec. 3, citing
unidentified people.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the
bank in New York, said JPMorgan doesn’t hold 90 percent or more
of the copper stock warrants. She declined to comment if the
bank holds a dominant position of less than that amount.  Dominant positions exist in other LME metals, the Warrant
Cash Banding Report shows. One unidentified firm holds 50
percent to 79 percent of the aluminum alloy stockpiles and one
party controls 50 percent to 79 percent of the nickel inventory.
In zinc, one company has 50 percent to 79 percent of the metal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claudia Carpenter  in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  