-- Monkey Brains, Robot Arms May Aid Paralyzed People After Study
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/monkey-brains-robot-arms-may-provide-aid-for-paralyzed-people-after-study.html
Scientists seeking to help paralyzed
people use computers may have found a better way for them to
steer a cursor, a study in  rhesus monkeys  suggests.  In some cases, paralyzed people have had electrodes
implanted in their brains so they can interact with computers
using electrical impulses triggered by their thoughts. The
problem is they don’t get enough sensory feedback to precisely
control cursor movement, said  Nicholas Hatsopoulos , chairman of
computational neuroscience at the University of Chicago.  The latest study, published today in the  Journal of
Neuroscience , used two monkeys who were trained to move cursors
using their thoughts. When robot arms moved the rhesus’s real
arms in tandem with the cursor, giving them a better feel for
its position, they were able to hit on-screen targets about 40
percent more efficiently, the study showed.  “Our longer-term goal, and this is a stepping-stone, is to
develop a brain-machine interface that not only extracts signals
but feeds them back,” said Hatsopoulos, the study’s lead
researchers, in a telephone interview yesterday.  The result may lead to new abilities for people with  Lou
Gehrig’s disease  or certain spinal-cord injuries, Hatsopoulos
said. While people with those illnesses can’t move their limbs,
they may be able to sense where their extremities are in space.  “If we built a wearable robot arm that their own arm could
slip into, they could move their arm and their hands,
controlling it with their brains,” Hatsopoulos said. “They’d
get the feeling of where their limb is in space, allowing them
to better control the wearable robot.”  Manual Controls  In the research led by Hatsopoulos, electrodes were
implanted in the animals’ brains. The scientists taught two
monkeys to control the cursor with manual controls, with juice
as a reward when the indicator got to a target on the screen.
When the manual controls were switched off, the monkeys used
only their brains to steer the cursor.  After the  monkeys  learned to relax their arms while moving
the cursor with their minds, a robotic exoskeleton began to
drive their arms in harmony with the indicator. The combination
of visual data and arm motion helped the monkeys steer the
cursor, according to the report.  This technology may help people whose  spinal cords  were
crushed without being severed. While many of these patients
can’t use their limbs, sensing them is still possible,
Hatsopoulos said. Potential beneficiaries also include people
with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig’s
disease, who can feel their limbs without being able to move
them.  If scientists learn how to complete a feedback loop to the
brain, an exoskeleton could be designed for patients, allowing
them to grab objects, feed themselves, and interact with
computers.  “It’s not like this is ready to happen tomorrow,”
Hatsopoulos said. “This is still at the early stages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 