-- Oprah Winfrey Films Sydney Opera House Shows to 12,000-Strong Audiences
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-12-14T04:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/oprah-winfrey-films-sydney-opera-house-shows-to-12-000-strong-audiences.html
Billionaire talk-show host  Oprah Winfrey  filmed the first of two shows to be taped in front of
the Sydney Opera House today that will make up part of an eight-
day trip part funded by the Australian government.  The trip, themed “Oprah’s Ultimate Australian Adventure”
to mark the 25th and final season of “The Oprah Winfrey Show,”
brought 302 U.S. audience members and 200 staff to the country
scattered across 88 Qantas Airways Ltd. flights. The two Opera
House shows, in addition to another two made from footage of 
the trip, will air in January in the U.S. and Australia.  The Australian government’s A$3 million ($2.98 million) tab
for the tour is the latest effort to stop a slide in the
country’s A$12.1 billion tourism industry, the fifth-largest
export earner. With the Australian dollar up almost 10 percent
this year, the number of U.S. visitors fell 16 percent in
October from a year earlier.  “I firmly believe this is taxpayers’ money well spent,”
Tourism Minister Martin Ferguson told reporters before the
taping. “Oprah is actually selling Australia with over 300
ambassadors.”  Oprah’s Harpo Inc., which produces her show, and sponsors
paid $7 million on the tour, the company said in a statement.  The 6,000 audience members for each show, selected by
lottery from 350,000 requests for free tickets, traveled from
around the country. Guests at the first event included rap star
Jay Z, Australian Academy Award winner Russell Crowe and a
performance by rock musician Jon Bon Jovi.  Roads Closed  Some roads around the Opera House were closed before and
during the taping and bus operations in the area were altered to
allow for the increased pedestrian activity.  Oprah is due to film the second show at Sydney’s iconic
venue this afternoon, with appearances by Australian actress
Nicole Kidman and her country singer husband Keith Urban, and
Australian actor Hugh Jackman.  “Of the 302 people who came as our ultimate viewers, 200
of them had never been out of the country,” Oprah said at the
media briefing. “They will be ambassadors for life. And I’ve
named myself an unofficial ambassador for Australia. And I’ve
the biggest mouth in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 saminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  