-- Orange Juice Tumbles Most in Two Months as Florida Cold Eases
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-12-14T20:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/orange-juice-declines-as-florida-citrus-avoids-freeze-damage.html
Orange-juice futures tumbled the
most in two months on signs that citrus groves in Florida, the
world’s second-biggest grower, probably avoided damage from cold
weather.  Most of the orange belt escaped the frost last night, said
Kyle Tapley, a meteorologist at MDA Information Systems Inc. in
Rockville, Maryland. Florida Governor  Charles Crist  said last
week “extreme temperatures” threatened the state with a
“major disaster.” Yesterday, futures jumped to the highest
since in more than three years.  Overnight was “not nearly as cold as the weather service
was calling for,” said  Jason Nicholls , a senior meteorologist
at AccuWeather Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania. “If there
was any effect on the citrus crop, it was very small.”  Orange juice for January delivery fell 6.9 cents, or 4.1
percent, to settle at $1.6005 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York, the biggest drop since Oct. 14.  Yesterday, the price surged by the exchange limit of 10
cents to $1.706, the highest since May 9, 2007.  Tonight “will be chilly but not nearly as cold” as the
past night because of cloud cover coming in, and temperatures
are expected to rise in coming days, Nicholls said.  Futures have gained 24 percent this year amid concern that
adverse weather would damage Florida’s groves.  The state will produce 143 million boxes of oranges in the
harvest that began in October and runs into July, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said on Dec. 10. That was down from an
October estimate of 146 million boxes.  Last year, output dropped to 133.6 million boxes, the
second-smallest crop in two decades, after a January freeze
damaged fruit. A box weighs 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  Brazil is the world’s biggest grower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  