-- European Jet Fuel, Gasoline Barges Drop as Shell Purchases: Oil Products
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2010-12-14T18:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/morgan-stanley-buys-european-gasoline-gasoil-demand-rising-oil-products.html
European jet and gasoline barges
fell even as Royal Dutch Shell Plc bought lots in both markets.  Light Products  Premium grade gasoline barges for immediate loading in
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp traded at $813 to $825 a metric ton,
according to a survey of brokers and traders monitoring the
Platts pricing window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time.
That’s down from $834 to $840 yesterday.  About 15 lots traded. Gunvor International BV and Shell
bought. Statoil ASA, BP Plc and Neste Oil Oyj were sellers.  Eurobob gasoline barges traded at $806 to $813 throughout
the day, according to the survey of traders and brokers
monitoring both the Platts window and Argus Bulletin Board.
That’s down from $816 to $823 yesterday. Ethanol is added to
Eurobob grade to make the finished fuel.  Prices could drop further after showing unseasonal strength
in November and December, Vienna-based consultants JBC Energy
wrote today in a research note.  “Massive Indonesian and Nigerian gasoline imports alone
will not be supportive enough and the U.S. will curb gasoline
imports after the recent run rate hikes,” JBC Energy said.  The  gasoline crack , or premium to Brent crude, was at $4.90
a barrel, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a
broker in London. The crack narrowed 70 cents from yesterday,
sinking to the lowest level since Nov. 24.  Middle Distillates  Jet fuel traded at $56 more than January gasoil futures on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange, down from a deal struck
yesterday at a premium of $57.50. Shell bought two lots from Air
France-KLM and one lot from Hetco, a unit of Hess Corp.  The International Air Transport Association, an industry
group, said today airlines may post a 40 percent decline in
combined profits next year on slower economic growth, higher
fuel costs and austerity measures in Europe.  Gasoil for January delivery on the ICE exchange fell 75
cents to $767.75 a ton at 5:21 p.m. The heating fuel has gained
almost 10 percent since Nov. 23, boosted by colder weather.  “The ongoing cold snap in northwestern Europe is price
supportive with the whole energy complex benefiting from
Europe’s big chill as temperatures remain below norm and as cold
weather moved in on the U.S. Northeast,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , strategist at VTB Capital in London.  Gasoil’s crack, a measure of refining profit, narrowed to
$11.40 a barrel, down 39 cents from yesterday. Brent crude for
January rose 0.5 percent to $91.65 a barrel.  Refinery News  ERG SpA, Italy’s second-largest oil refiner, plans to shut
the southern part of its Priolo plant in Sicily during the first
quarter of 2011.  The refinery is shutting for planned maintenance, according
to an ERG official who declined to be named citing company
policy. The Priolo plant is able to process 320,000 barrels of
oil a day, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  