-- Mortgage-Bond Slump No `Fun' for Housing as Rates Increase: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-14T16:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/mortgage-bond-slump-no-fun-for-housing-as-rates-increase-credit-markets.html
A slump in government-backed
mortgage bonds that’s sent yields to the highest level since May
is threatening a recovery in the U.S. housing market, which had
been bolstered by record-low borrowing costs.  Yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed securities that most affect
 loan rates  jumped to 4.22 percent as of 11:28 a.m. in New York,
an  increase  of more than 1 percentage point from an all-time low
in October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher loan rates “won’t be fun” for a fragile housing
market, said  Scott Simon , head of mortgage bonds at Newport
Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest bond  fund . “If you were looking
at buying a house a few weeks ago, the same house, to you, looks
as much as 9 percent more expensive,” he said.  Investors in agency mortgage securities have suffered
during this month’s crash in bond prices amid speculation that
President  Barack Obama ’s agreement to extend and expand tax cuts
will bolster growth and inflation. While the drop hasn’t been as
severe as for Treasuries, the effects of higher mortgage rates,
along with climbing  gasoline  prices, will offset much of the tax
package’s intended stimulative effects, according to Gluskin
Sheff & Associates Chief Economist  David Rosenberg .  Monthly Payments Climb  The  average rate  on a typical 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
has climbed for four weeks, to an average of 4.61 percent last
week, according to Freddie Mac, pushing the monthly cost of a
$300,000 loan to $1,540, from $1,462. The rate had dropped to a
record low 4.17 percent in the week ended Nov. 11 amid
speculation that a bond purchasing  program  by the Federal
Reserve would restrain yields.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt was unchanged at 171 basis points, or 1.71
percentage points, down from this year’s high of 201 basis
points in June, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged 3.952
percent.  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S. fell
for a 10th straight day, the longest streak since October 2006.
The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.41 basis point to a mid-
price of 86 basis points as of 11:27 a.m. in New York, according
to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Bondholder Protection  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has dropped
from 99.4 at the end of November. The index last fell for 10
straight trading days in the period ended Oct. 26, 2006, Markit
data show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Yields on agency mortgage bonds are now guiding rates on
almost all new U.S. home lending following the collapse of the
non-agency market in 2007 and a retreat by banks. The $5.3
trillion market includes debt guaranteed by government-supported
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and federal agency Ginnie Mae.  The difference between yields on Fannie Mae’s current-
coupon securities, which most influence loan rates because they
trade closest to face value, and 10-year Treasuries has narrowed
to 84.3 basis points, from a 15-month high of 99 basis points on
Dec. 1, Bloomberg data show.  A widening of spreads before the rise in yields and an
outlook for lower bond issuance as fewer homeowners refinance
have helped agency mortgage bonds outperform the Treasury market
this month, said  Tom Sontag , a portfolio manager in Chicago at
Neuberger Berman Group LLC.  Demand Slump  “They had gotten more attractive from a spread standpoint:
That drew investors into them, which prevented their prices from
falling further,” said Sontag, whose firm oversees about $16
billion in structured-product investments.  Housing demand has slumped this year as tax credits for
buyers expired and unemployment hovered below 10 percent. Sales
of existing homes, which reached a  record low  in July, rose to
an annual pace of 4.43 million in October, compared with a
yearly average of 5.81 million in the past decade, the National
Association of Realtors said Nov. 23.  About 10.8 million homes, or 22.5 percent of those with
mortgages, were worth less than the debt owed on them as of
Sept. 30, according to CoreLogic Inc. An additional 2.4 million
had less than 5 percent equity, the Santa Ana, California-based
real-estate information company said Dec. 12.  Defaults, Foreclosures  As many as 8 million homes are in some stage of default or
foreclosure, known as shadow inventory, and may be offered for
sale over the next five years, according to Morgan Stanley.  “The run-up in mortgage rates will not be suppressing
demand at a time when the market is close to being in balance,
but when there is still gargantuan excess supply,” Rosenberg
said in a telephone interview. He cited an S&P/Case-Shiller
home-price  index  showing a 1.5 percent decline in the three
months ended in September.  Agency mortgage securities  returned  37 basis points more
than similar-duration Treasuries this month through Dec. 10,
losing 98 basis points on an absolute basis, according to
Barclays Capital index data.  “It’s definitely been a meaningful move in yields and
clearly that move has had a direct impact on mortgage rates,”
said  Matthew Marra , a fixed-income portfolio manager at New
York-based BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager.  Treasuries Selloff  The increase also exacerbated a selloff in Treasuries, as
mortgage investors and servicers shed debt with the projected
lives of their securities roughly doubling on average because of
lower  forecasts  for homeowner refinancing, he said.  The increased affordability of homes in light of lower home
prices means that the recent rise in mortgage rates will have
little effect on the value of bonds in the non-agency mortgage
market, said Neuberger’s Sontag, who has been buying  subprime-
mortgage securities .  “They’re still pretty low rates,” said  Didi Weinblatt ,
vice president of mutual fund portfolios at USAA Investment
Management in San Antonio, where she helps oversee about $45
billion.  Non-agency home-loan bonds have joined  high-yield  company
debt this month in avoiding losses thanks to their higher
projected yields. High-yield bonds have returned 0.95 percent
this month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Typical prices for the most-senior securities backed by
option adjustable-rate mortgages rose to 53.95 cents on the
dollar, from 52.60 cents on Nov. 30 and 48.21 cents on Dec. 31,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data. Option ARMs allow
borrowers to pay less than the interest they owe each month,
adding the unpaid amount to the overall mortgage balance.  “If rates go up another 100 basis point will that have an
impact? Yes. Do I think that’s going to happen in the near-term?
No,” Sontag said. “To not think that the 10-year Treasury
around these  levels  is at fair value, you have to buy into the
theory that inflation genie is out of the bottle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  