-- Pfizer Business Units to Report Directly to Read
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-12-14T21:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/pfizer-s-business-units-to-report-directly-to-new-ceo-ian-read-in-shuffle.html
Pfizer Inc.,  the world’s biggest
drugmaker, shuffled its executive leadership team and eliminated
a layer of reporting structure following the naming of  Ian Read 
to chief executive officer last week.  Read previously was head of Pfizer’s global pharmaceutical
operations, responsible for 85 percent of the New York-based
company’s revenue. That position will be eliminated as the heads
of units report directly to Read, said  Ray Kerins , a spokesman
for the drugmaker, in a telephone interview. The changes take
effect immediately, Kerins said. Read was named CEO on Dec. 5.  Over the next five years, Pfizer faces generic competition
to products with $20 billion in annual sales, or almost a third
of the company’s  revenue . Pfizer is eliminating jobs and
reducing costs as it absorbs the $68 billion acquisition of
Wyeth last year. The new reporting structure will help elevate
leaders and speed up decision making, Kerins said.  “We have outstanding leaders who are now being pulled
together into one leadership operation and are no longer
segmented,” Kerins said. “Having the business units at the
executive leadership table, we can further improve alignment
across all groups and divisions to drive operational
excellence.”  Pfizer fell 8 cents, or less than a percent, to $17.11 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
 declined  7 percent in the past 12 months.  Leadership Team  David Simmons , who previously was named head of emerging
markets and established products for Pfizer, will be elevated to
the executive leadership team, as will  Geno Germano , head of
specialty care, and  Olivier Brandicourt , head of primary care,
Kerins said.  The oncology business now will report to Germano, though it
will remain a distinct unit, Kerins said.  Tony Maddaluna  will
take charge of global manufacturing, reporting to Chief
Financial Officer  Frank D’Amelio . Manufacturing had been run by
 Nat Ricciardi , who is retiring at the end of the first quarter
after almost 38 years with the company.  Cavan Redmond , president of animal health, consumer health,
and the company’s Capsugel unit, also will take charge of
corporate strategy. The nutritionals unit, formerly reporting to
Redmond, will be among the responsibilities of  Amy Schulman , who
will remain in her position as general counsel.  “Amy has been an outstanding general counsel and a leader
for this company,” Kerins said. “This now adds to her
portfolio and broadens her position within the company.”  Chuck Hill takes over as head of human resources, replacing
 Mary McLeod , who “decided to leave Pfizer to pursue other
opportunities,” Kerins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 