-- Pheromone-Rich Pricey Truffles Take Root in U.S. Thanks to Dogs
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2010-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/pheromone-rich-truffles-take-root-in-u-s-with-dogs-help-mike-di-paola.html
The center of attention at the
 Oregon Truffle Festival  in Eugene this year will probably be a
magnificent Lagotto Romagnolo named Tom.  Last January, the dog responded to his handler’s cue with a
manic sniff-and-scan of the vicinity that led him to buried
culinary treasure in seconds.  The woolly-haired pooch and his handler, Jim Sanford of
Blackberry Farm in Knoxville,  Tennessee , teach festival
attendees how to find the Oregon white truffle.  “We’re here to train the owners more than the dogs,”
Sanford told me at the last festival. The latter group included
another Lagotto, a Pekingese, a Labradoodle and a half-dozen
other canines of less certain ancestry.  After Tom’s find, trainees went through their paces with
varying degrees of success, yet all of them showed promise. And
paradoxically, that’s good news for the truffles.  The species native to the Pacific Northwest is usually
harvested using rakes, a process that churns up the soil around
trees until the precious nuggets are revealed and plucked. This
is bad, says mycologist  Charles Lefevre .  “The rakes are causing harm and destroying the reputation
of the Oregon truffles,” he says. “That’s really a tragedy,
and that’s the reason to use dogs, because dogs only find ripe
truffles with an aroma.”  Not everyone at the festival was all that green,
environmentally. One truffle farmer spoke of using herbicides to
keep orchard weeds down, while another addressed the most
pernicious pest of the Pacific Northwest -- the gopher -- with
his 9mm Glock.  An Owl or Two  To these responses, Lefevre just shakes his head. “Truffle
cultivation really lends itself to organic methods and a
chemical-free approach to farming,” he says. Weeds can be kept
back using a propane torch for example, and gophers and voles
can be controlled by coaxing an owl or two to patrol the farm.  Lefevre founded New World Truffieres, where he inoculates --
the preferred verb -- young trees with truffle spores. The
nascent industry ( Garland Truffles  of Hillsborough,  North
Carolina , claims the country’s first harvest in 1992) has the
potential to change the face of small farms in the U.S. -- not
to mention American kitchens -- but truffle growers face many
challenges.  The subterranean tubers thrive on a combination of variables
-- climate, soil, symbiotic flora and fauna, rainfall -- that
aren’t all fully understood. The presence of rabbits, horses or
pigs in an orchard can be conducive to healthy truffles. No one
knows exactly why.  Vineyard Efforts  In  North America  there are two main truffle ranges -- most
of the west Coast and the middle South of the U.S.
Besides orchards, more and more vineyards are inoculating their
grounds with truffle spores. Lefevre estimates there are about
30 vineyards now cultivating truffles along with grapes, with
some vintners finding fungus to be the more profitable crop.  “We even have three customers in Sonoma County who have
either pulled out grapes or plan to remove grapes to replace
them with truffle trees, or in one case a vineyard management
company who planted truffle trees on their own land rather than
wine grapes.”  It is somewhat of a mystery that humans find truffles so
tasty. The fungus contains steroids identical to the sex
pheromone found in boar’s saliva (which is why pigs are also
used to find them) and which, no less unnerving, also matches a
steroid secreted in the human male’s underarm.  Devil’s Work  Medieval Europeans were wary of the truffle, thinking that a
black and gnarly underground “fruit” that ripened in the
middle of winter was the Devil’s work, an association that is
naturally a bit sexy. Gourmand Jean Anthelme  Brillat-Savarin 
wrote that truffle talk “awakens erotic and gastronomical
dreams” in both sexes.  Aphrodisiac speculations aren’t entirely apocryphal: A
1970s experiment at the  University of Buckingham , in the U.K.,
showed that subjects exposed to the truffle steroid responded
more enthusiastically to photographs of the opposite sex than
did those breathing plain air.  Happily the Oregon festival isn’t all classroom talk and
rooting around in the dirt. Activities are linked by a series of
intense truffle-centric feasts, and visits to local vintners
with a vested interest in truffle mania.  “The wineries want to have wonderful food that’s local and
seasonal and goes beautifully with their wines,” says Leslie
Scott, organizer of the festival (and wife of Lefevre), “and
truffles are the ultimate ingredient.”  The sixth annual Oregon Truffle Festival takes place Jan.
28-30. Napa hosted its first truffle fest Dec. 10-12.  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 