-- Philadelphia Schools to Spend More Exiting Swaps Contracts Than on Books
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-12-14T18:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/philadelphia-schools-to-spend-more-exiting-swaps-contracts-than-on-books.html
The School District of Philadelphia,
the eighth-largest U.S. system, will cancel five interest-rate
swaps next month for $63 million, about $14 million more than it
spent on books and supplies last year, documents for a bond sale
show.  The payments to  Morgan Stanley  Capital Services Inc.,
 Goldman Sachs  Capital Markets LP and  Wells Fargo  Bank N.A. were
confirmed by the school district today. They come atop $26.6
million the district spent previously to end swaps, according to
bond documents. The total outstrips the $77 million the district
of 195,000 students, including 85,900 from families poor enough
to qualify for free lunches, expects to spend on utilities this
year, according to a budget summary in bond documents.  The district joins hundreds of municipal borrowers
including Harvard University and the Delaware River Port
Authority in Camden, New Jersey, that have paid banks at least
$4 billion to escape swap agreements that soured when interest
rates fell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The school district is terminating the swap agreements
and paying termination payments in connection therewith in order
to reduce the school district’s exposure to hedged debt,”
according to the preliminary offering statement for the sale of
$126 million of fixed-rate refunding bonds the week of Dec. 6.  District officials declined to discuss the bond issue after
confirming the termination cost in an e-mail today, said a
spokeswoman, Shana Kemp. The district’s financial adviser,  Andre Allen  of Philadelphia-based Phoenix Capital Partners LLC,
declined to comment when reached by telephone Dec. 1. Allen
didn’t return telephone messages seeking comment after the sale.  Debt Proceeds  The refunding bonds sold by the school district, rated Ba1
by Moody’s Investors Service, are designed to reduce debt
payments in 2011 and pay for the swaps terminations, according
to the bond documents.  The district entered the swaps involved in the refinancing
in June 2004, as part of a strategy to manage long-term interest
rates. That month, fixed-rate AAA rated 20-year bonds priced to
yield about 4.9 percent, according to a Municipal Market
 Advisors Index . The district’s new bonds, maturing in 2024,
priced to yield 4.75 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  In a swap transaction, two parties exchange payments,
typically a floating one for a fixed, to artificially create a
below-market fixed rate on variable-rate bonds.  Linked to Libor  In the swaps to be canceled, which were to run through
2030, Philadelphia schools paid the banks fixed rates of about
3.8 percent and received in return a variable rate equal to 58.5
percent of the one-month London interbank offered rate, plus
0.27 percent, bond documents show. At  yesterday’s closing , that
amounted to Philadelphia receiving 0.42 percent on the $350
million of debt related to the swaps.  Representatives of the banks receiving termination
payments,  Mark Lake  of Morgan Stanley, Ferris Morrison of Wells
Fargo and  Michael DuVally  of Goldman Sachs, declined to comment
when reached by e-mail today.  Before the district began to cancel its derivatives last
year, Philadelphia’s billion-dollar stake in swaps was the
largest among 107 Pennsylvania districts that entered the
transactions, state Auditor General  Jack Wagner   reported  last
year.  Wagner has urged lawmakers in Pennsylvania, the sixth-
largest U.S. state by population, to repeal 2003 legislation
that allowed school districts and other local governments to
trade in swaps. He called the deals “impenetrably complex
transactions that, quite simply, amount to gambling with public
money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  