-- Pixie Dust Loses Magic as Foreclosures Slam Utopian Disney Town
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2010-12-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/pixie-dust-loses-magic-as-foreclosures-slam-utopian-disney-town.html
Walt Disney Co.  built Celebration,
Florida, as an idealized version of a circa-World War II small
 town , where litter-free streets are lined with white picket
fences and front porches entice neighbors to sit after dinner.  Now, there’s trouble in the 16-year-old paradise set within
earshot of the nightly fireworks at Walt Disney World Resort.  Celebration’s foreclosure rate is about double the state’s
pace as homeowners who paid a premium for a vision of utopia
fall behind on their mortgages. Earlier this month, a resident
on the verge of  losing  his house shot himself after a 14-hour
standoff with police. Three days before that, the town had its
first murder when a man was bludgeoned with an ax.  “A lot of people bought homes in Celebration thinking
 Tinker Bell  had sprinkled the town with pixie dust,” said
Michael Olenick, chief executive officer of mortgage-data firm
Legalprise Inc., referring to the character in Disney’s “Peter
Pan” movie whose magical dust allows people to fly as long as
they think happy thoughts. “Reality is hitting hard.”  The foreclosure rate in Celebration since the beginning of
2009, based on notices of so-called  lis pendens  that initiate a
case, is one for every 20 residents, compared with one per 48
people in Florida as a whole, according to Legalprise, in West
Palm Beach. Celebration home values have dropped as much as 60
percent from the 2006 peak, while statewide values are down 51
percent, data from Seattle-based research firm Zillow Inc. show.  ‘Fantasyland’ Premium  Celebration foreclosures are happening at a faster pace in
part because property owners in financial trouble are walking
away from  vacation  homes in the town, where real estate sells
for about 30 percent more than surrounding communities, said
Olenick. Before the recession, people were willing to pay more
for living in a Disney “fantasyland,” he said.  “The harsh reality is, bad things happen in Celebration
too, both in real estate and in life,” Olenick said.  Craig Foushee, 52, barricaded himself in his home on Dec.
2, shooting at sheriff’s deputies and members of a SWAT team
before turning the gun on himself. No law enforcement officers
were injured. Foushee’s home had been in foreclosure since
October 2009, according to legal filings.  The Osceola sheriff’s department said there was no
connection between Foushee’s death and the murder of Matteo
Giovanditto, 58, who was found in his home by a neighbor on Nov.
29. On Dec. 6, David-Israel Zenon Murillo, an acquaintance of
Giovanditto, was arrested and confessed to killing him,
according to a  statement  on the website of the sheriff’s office.  Different Movie Set  Residents are “in shock” after the deaths, said Angela
Sessoms, who has lived in Celebration for 10 years. In the past,
visitors have commented the town looks like the set of a Disney
movie, she said. She heard a similar description with a dark
twist last week, as word of the killings spread.  “With the SWAT team, the roads barricaded, and the  school 
in lockdown, it was like a different kind of movie set,”
Sessoms said. Before the deaths, a stolen bicycle was considered
Celebration’s biggest crime, said Sessoms, a real estate agent
at Century 21 Premium Properties’ downtown office.  The community has marked the events by tying yellow ribbons
to the oak trees that edge its quiet streets, as a memorial.  Disney started  building  Celebration in 1994, and the first
residents arrived in 1996. Located on the southern border of
Disney World, 25 miles south of Orlando, it was designed by
Robert A.M. Stern, dean of the Yale University School of
Architecture, and Jaquelin Robertson, a founding partner at
Cooper, Robertson & Partners in New York. The style of the
development is called New Urbanism, also known as
neotraditionalism, emulating 1950s mixed-use neighborhoods where
it was easier to walk than to drive.  Kilwin’s, Woof Gang  In the  center  of town, bordering a lake constructed by
Disney, stores include Kilwin’s, a seller of ice cream and
fudge, and the Woof Gang Bakery, where dog owners buy gourmet
treats. At the Market Street Cafe, there’s an old-fashioned soda
counter where diners can order the restaurant’s specials: meat
loaf and chicken pot pie, followed by apple or pecan pie.  Lexin Capital, a New York-based private real estate
investment firm, bought the 18-acre Celebration downtown from
Disney in 2004. Mike Nunez, a spokesman for the company, didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  Disney  still owns some commercial
property in the town, according to  Marilyn Waters , a spokeswoman
for the Burbank, California-based company.  Twice the Value  Living 12 minutes from Disney World’s Magic Kingdom, with a
backdoor access road, comes at a price. Buying in the 10,000-
person town requires paying what locals call the “Celebration
Premium.” The median home value, including single-family
properties and condominiums, was $250,800 in October, almost
twice the $127,300 for the entire state, according to  Zillow.   Properties in Celebration are priced as high as  $3.9
million  for a six-bedroom, 8,000-square-foot (743 square-meter)
mansion on a three-quarter-acre lot, according to Realtor.com.
At  $529,000 , buyers could get a four-bedroom, 2,800-square-foot
home with a wrap-around porch on about a sixth of an acre.  For condominiums, $90,000 will buy a two-bedroom, 1,000-
square-foot unit, according to Realtor.com. At the top of the
market, a five-bedroom, 3,400-square-foot, townhouse-style condo
is priced at $675,000.  Four years ago, at the height of the  real estate  boom, the
least expensive single-family house in the June to December
period sold for $350,000, according to Kathleen Carlson, owner
of Imagination Realty in the town’s center. In the same period
this year, it was $210,000, she said.  The lowest  condominium  sale in the boom was $193,000,
compared with a sale at $70,000 for the 2010 period, she said.  Town Maintenance  All owners pay about $860 a year for private trash pickup
and recreational facilities, including parks, community pools
and baseball fields. Condo owners pay an additional maintenance
fee that varies depending on location.  The town’s Architectural Review Committee maintains strict
 control  over the appearance of properties, dictating paint
colors, regulating holiday decorations and overseeing the size
of political signs that can only be posted in the 45 days
leading up to an election.  Most residents see the rules as “protection,” said
Carlson, who lives in a Celebration home with a wide front porch
where she drinks coffee with neighbors on Sunday mornings.  “Most of us came here not because of Disney -- we came
because we wanted that type of control over our neighborhood,”
Carlson said, “You don’t have to worry that your neighbor will
suddenly start parking an old pickup on his front lawn.”  Six Acceptable Styles  Like Carlson’s house, most  properties  have front porches
that encourage neighborliness. There are six accepted historical
architectural styles for homes: Victorian, Classical, Colonial
Revival, Mediterranean, French, and Coastal.  While white picket fences outline most front yards, not
everyone is allowed to have them. That would look too fake, said
Laura Poe, a spokeswoman for the town. The architectural
committee decides who can have the old-fashioned fences and who
must have short, trimmed hedges.  The town shows its Disney heritage in annual seasonal
shows, each with special effects originally designed by the
entertainment company. In October, leaf-shaped confetti shoots
out of lamp posts in the village center to simulate colorful
falling foliage. During the month of December, the posts emit
what locals call snoap -- soap suds that look like snow.  Unlike in real life, the snow falls four times a night, on
schedule, and dissipates without shoveling.  “Two of my grandchildren think we live inside Disney
World, with Mickey Mouse,” said Celebration resident Sessoms,
referring to a four-year-old and a five-year-old. “Except for
the recent violence, I can understand why they would think
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 