-- Polish 2011 Share Sales May Reach $6.7 Billion, UniCredit's Witczak Says
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-12-14T12:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/polish-2011-share-sales-may-reach-6-7-billion-unicredit-s-witczak-says.html
Polish share sales may reach as much
as 5 billion euros ($6.7 billion) in 2011, second only to this
year’s record, as the government sells energy and financial
assets to prop up public finances and private businesses expand.  Among the state-owned companies earmarked for initial
public offerings are coking coal producer Jastrzebska Spolka
Weglowa SA and Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA. The government
may also try follow-on sales of shares in PKO Bank Polski SA,
insurer PZU SA and power utility PGE SA, according to UniCredit
SpA, the country’s second-largest equity underwriter this year.  This year more than $10 billion of shares were sold in
Poland as the government reduced stakes in its largest energy,
copper, phone and insurance companies to help cover the budget
deficit and limit borrowing, Bloomberg data showed. The 8.1
billion-zloty IPO of  PZU  in April was the biggest by a Polish
company since the Warsaw Stock Exchange was created in 1991 and
the second-largest in Europe in 2010 after Enel Green Power SpA.  “Next year we won’t have such huge IPOs as PZU but the
State Treasury will remain the main player,”  Tomasz Witczak ,
head of equity capital markets at the Warsaw-based unit of
UniCredit said in an interview. About 40 private companies may
sell shares, he said.  Fastest-Growing  UniCredit this year managed sales of the country’s largest
power producers, PGE and  Tauron Polska Energia SA , as well as
insurer Europa SA, giving it an 11 percent share in the ranking
of lead managers. Deutsche Bank AG, with 23 percent, took first
place, managing the equity offerings of PZU and copper producer
 KGHM Polska Miedz SA , along with a rights issue by BRE Bank SA.  The Warsaw exchange was the fastest-growing market in
central Europe this decade, more than doubling the number of
traded companies and almost tripling daily turnover, according
to its  website . The bourse lists companies with total market
capitalization of $187 billion, making it the third-largest in
emerging Europe after markets in Russia and Turkey.  Its benchmark  WIG20 Index  has jumped 15 percent this year
as Poland’s accelerating economy helped improve company earnings
and global equity markets rebounded. A report last month showed
economic expansion in central Europe’s biggest state accelerated
to 4.2 percent in the third quarter, the fastest in two years.  Non-state share sales won’t top “several hundreds of
millions of zloty” each, according to Witczak. “We may also
see several new foreign companies listing in Warsaw next year,
most probably from Ukraine and the central European countries.”  ‘Question Mark’  A “very big question mark” for next year, Witczak said,
are the government’s plans to cut costs of its privately managed
pension-fund system, whose combined stock holdings of $25.3
billion account for 13 percent of Warsaw’s capitalization.
Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski told the daily Rzeczpospolita
yesterday that “all options” to reduce the fiscal burden,
including curbing payments to the funds, are being considered.  Another concern is the market turmoil churned up by
Europe’s debt crisis. AFI Europe NV, the property developer
controlled by Israeli billionaire Lev Leviev, Avia Solutions
Group of Lithuania and Geo-Alliance Oil-Gas Public Ltd. of
Ukraine pulled a combined $449 million of IPOs from Poland this
month, citing unfavorable market conditions.  “The question is how many rough patches like that will
happen next year,” Witczak said.  Energa, Multikino  Getin Noble Bank SA, controlled by Polish billionaire
Leszek Czarnecki, this month filed a prospectus for an IPO of
its Open Finance SA consumer financial advisory unit. PGE, which
is awaiting antitrust clearance to take over utility Energa SA,
said the target company may sell shares as soon as next year.  PGE’s also readying a prospectus for its renewable energy
unit, according to its website, and Multikino SA, Poland’s
second-largest movie-theater operator, and press distributor
Kolporter also plan to sell shares to the public in 2011.  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. , Slovenia’s biggest
publicly traded bank, is considering a possible listing in
Warsaw as one of “several” ways to raise capital, according to
a regulatory filing on Dec. 10. Sopharma AD, Bulgaria’s biggest
drugmaker, is readying to go public in Poland in March or April,
Chairman Ognian Donev said on Nov. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  