-- Producer Prices in U.S. Increased 0.8% in November
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-14T15:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/producer-prices-in-u-s-climb-the-most-in-eight-months-on-costs-for-fuel.html
Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose in
November by the most in eight months, led by higher prices for
gasoline, heating oil and fruit.  The producer price index increased 0.8 percent from the
prior month after a 0.4 percent rise, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. So-called core prices, which exclude
food and energy costs, rose 1.2 percent in November from a year
earlier, the smallest increase in five months and matching the
median forecast.  Unemployment  near a 26-year high is making it difficult for
companies to pass on higher raw materials costs. The wholesale
data underscore last month’s decision by Federal Reserve policy
makers, who are meeting today, to take more steps to bolster the
economy and prevent deflation, or a prolonged period of price
declines.  “Businesses still lack the pricing power to pass on higher
commodity costs,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “Measures
of inflation are still too low for comfort.”  Separate figures from the Commerce Department showed  retail
sales  rose more than forecast in November, a sign consumers will
play a bigger role in the recovery. Purchases increased 0.8
percent, following a 1.7 percent gain in October that was larger
than previously estimated. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.6 percent rise.  Retail Forecast  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, sales
climbed 0.9 percent, the most since August.  Stocks advanced for a sixth day after the reports, and
Treasury securities fell. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index
increased 0.2 percent to 1,243.23 at 9:58 a.m. in New York. The
yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves
inversely to price, rose to 3.35 percent from 3.28 percent late
yesterday.  Economists forecast producer prices would rise 0.6 percent,
according to the median of 76 projections in a Bloomberg survey.
Estimates ranged from gains of 0.2 percent to 1.2 percent.  Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 3.5 percent
more for goods last month after a 4.3 percent gain in October.
Excluding food and energy, wholesale prices rose 1.2 percent in
the most recent 12 months, following a 1.5 percent increase.  Core Inflation  So-called core prices rose 0.3 percent in November from a
month earlier, reflecting a rebound in passenger car costs and
higher pharmaceutical preparations, after a 0.6 percent drop in
October.  New-car prices increased 1.7 percent, the most since 2006,
after a 3 percent drop in October that was the biggest decline
in more than four years. Prices of light trucks rose 0.3
percent, after a 4.3 percent decline that was the largest since
October 2006.  Last month’s report included the Labor Department’s
valuation of quality changes for 2011 model vehicles. The
decline in prices for October suggests new vehicles were
outfitted with better equipment or more options, while
manufacturers kept price adjustments to a minimum.  The PPI is one of three monthly inflation gauges reported
by the Labor Department this month. Import prices rose 1.3
percent in November, the government’s figures showed on Dec. 10.
The consumer price index is scheduled to be released tomorrow.  Food Prices  The cost of food increased 1 percent, today’s report
showed. Egg prices increased 23 percent, the most since April
2009, and fresh fruits and melons rose 14 percent, the biggest
rise since December 2009.  Energy prices rose 2.1 percent. Gasoline costs were up 4.7
percent and home heating oil prices increased 7 percent, the
most since August.  Expenses for intermediate goods rose 1.1 percent from the
prior month and were up 6.3 percent from a year earlier. Prices
of crude goods, or materials used at the earliest stage of the
production process, increased 0.6 percent.  Fed policy makers, meeting today for the last time this
year, may indicate that while the economy showed signs of
picking up at the end of the year, high unemployment and a risk
of a prolonged drop in prices remain. The Fed is scheduled to
release its policy statement around 2:15 p.m. in Washington.  Fed’s Bernanke  Without action by the U.S. central bank last month to
purchase as much as $600 billion of Treasury securities, the
economy might have tipped into a period of deflation, Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in an interview on CBS Corp.’s “60
Minutes,” aired Dec. 5. He said fears of inflation are
“overstated” and that keeping price pressures under control
isn’t a diminished priority for the central bank.  Companies, concerned about boosting sales, are absorbing
higher costs rather than passing them on to consumers. The Fed’s
preferred gauge for consumer prices, which excludes food and
energy, rose 0.9 percent in October from a year earlier, the
smallest gain on record, according to Commerce Department data.  “They’d love to be able to pass on the prices but I don’t
think they can, the level of competition is too great,” said
 Robert Stein , a senior economist at First Trust Portfolios in
Wheaton, Illinois. “The producers are going to have to absorb
at least some of the costs themselves.”  Computer Prices  Cheaper component prices for some companies are allowing
for bigger corporate profits.  Dell Inc. , the third-largest
supplier of personal computers, last month posted earnings that
beat analysts’ forecasts, helped by cheaper parts and buoyant
spending from companies that are updating aging personal
computers and servers.  Today’s Labor Department report showed computer prices in
November were down 8.8 percent from the same month last year.  Profit margins were helped by “pricing discipline” that
kept Dell from cutting product prices too much, Chief Financial
Officer  Brian Gladden  said in an interview after the results.  The costs of computer memory and hard drives have declined,
and that also shored up profitability, he said. Still, parts
prices may “bottom out” this quarter and there will be a
“more challenging competitive environment,” Gladden said on a
conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  