-- Qatar Gathers CEOs to Mark LNG Capacity Milestone, Expects Further Gains
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-12-14T14:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/qatar-gathers-ceos-to-mark-lng-capacity-milestone-expects-further-gains.html
Qatar gathered chief executives from
the biggest energy companies to celebrate reaching an annual
production capacity of 77 million metric tons of liquefied
natural gas, underscoring its rank as the largest LNG exporter.  The Persian Gulf state may further increase its capacity by
as much as 10 million tons a year if it can improve efficiency
at its production units, Energy Minister  Abdullah al-Attiyah 
told reporters. Exxon Mobil Corp.’s  Rex Tillerson , Royal Dutch
Shell Plc’s  Peter Voser  and ConocoPhillips’s  Jim Mulva  were
among the executives attending the ceremony at the Qatari
industrial city of Ras Laffan yesterday.  “If in the future we want to expand, we will expand as a
revamp” by making existing facilities more efficient, al-
Attiyah said yesterday. Building new LNG units would be a
costlier option, he said.  While Qatar is recognized as the biggest LNG exporter and
holds the world’s third-largest natural gas reserves after
Russia and Iran, its gas fields also supply rising volumes of
natural gas liquids such as propane, butane and condensate.
These products, collectively known as NGLs, have commercial uses
similar to crude or refined oil products, boosting Qatar’s
overall energy sales.  Qatar will be able next year to pump 1.19 million barrels
of NGLs a day, according to a forecast by the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency . The country’s NGL output will for
the first time exceed its production capacity for crude, which
the IEA estimates will be 1.02 million barrels a day in 2011.
Qatar’s combined capacity for producing NGLs and crude will
overtake that of its OPEC partners Algeria and Libya, according
to the agency’s forecast.  Higher Ranking  “It very clearly pushes Qatar up the ranks of oil
producers and also -- because of the semi-refined nature of some
of these -- the rankings of the refined-product producers as
well,”  Lawrence Eagles , global head of commodities research at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview
in November.  The tiny nation of 1.6 million people is the second-
smallest producer of crude in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. Ecuador is the smallest. OPEC quotas only
cover crude, not NGLs.  Qatar’s transformation into a major producer of natural gas
liquids has implications for OPEC, supplier of 40 percent of
global crude, and the group’s ability to influence energy
markets. Qatar was the only one of OPEC’s  12 members  to see its
combined output of crude and NGLs rise last year, after the
group cut its production target in December 2008. By next year,
Qatar will be the only member capable of producing more natural
gas liquids than oil, the IEA says.  Flagship Plant  Shell  is building a $19 billion gas-to-liquids plant that
will add more NGL capacity. The Anglo-Dutch company expects its
Pearl plant to become fully operational in early 2012 and to
begin converting gas into kerosene, diesel, lubricants and
naphtha in the second quarter of that year.  Qatar may expand gas-to-liquids output still further once
Pearl is completed, al-Attiyah said yesterday.  Other OPEC members are producing more natural gas liquids
of their own. By 2015, the group’s NGL output may equal as much
as 20 percent of its combined production of oil and natural gas
liquids, up from 14 percent in 2009, IEA data show.  “Although OPEC NGLs are a growing competitor to OPEC crude,
it’s difficult to see how they could be brought within the quota
system,” said Robin Mills, a Dubai-based oil analyst and author
of ‘The Myth of the Oil Crisis,’ in an interview in August.  Early Celebration  Qatar exported its first cargo of liquefied natural gas in
1996. The country will have the capacity to produce an annual 77
million tons of LNG, or about 3.75 trillion cubic feet of
pipeline gas, once Qatar Liquefied Gas Co. brings its seventh
and final liquefaction plant into operation early in 2011.
Qatari officials organized yesterday’s event in anticipation of
this achievement.  Qatar Liquefied Gas, known as QatarGas, is a venture
between state-run Qatar Petroleum,  Exxon Mobil ,  ConocoPhillips ,
 Total SA  and Shell. Another company, Ras Laffan Liquefied
Natural Gas Co., started its seventh and final LNG production
unit earlier this year. RasGas, as this company is known, is a
venture between Qatar Petroleum and Exxon Mobil.  A moratorium on Qatar’s North Field gas reservoir precludes
the development of additional LNG projects. The North Field has
the world’s largest gas reservoir, with an estimated 900
trillion cubic feet of the fuel.  The moratorium won’t be lifted before 2014, if at all, Saad
al-Kaabi, Qatar Petroleum’s director of oil and gas ventures,
said last year. HSBC Holdings Plc said on Dec. 7 that Qatar may
need to develop the North Field to generate enough electricity
to stage the 2022 World Cup soccer championship.  Malaysia was the second-largest exporter of LNG after Qatar
last year, followed by Indonesia and Australia, according to
data from BP Plc. The chilled fuel can be transported by
specialized ships to markets not accessible by pipeline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  