-- Trading Patterns Show `Significant Damage' in Bond Markets: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-14T20:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/trading-patterns-show-significant-damage-in-bond-markets-canada-credit.html
Canadian government bond yields are
rising past long-term barriers, indicating further losses may be
in store as investors favor stocks amid U.S. stimulus measures,
trading patterns show.  Canada’s five-year bond yield closed above its 200-day
moving average last week and 10-year bonds lost their yield
 advantage  over equivalent-maturity U.S. securities for the first
time since May. The 5-, 10- and 30-year yields are straining at
so-called Fibonacci  levels , according to Royal Bank of Canada
and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  “From a technical-analysis perspective, the bond market
has undergone significant damage,” said  Mohammed Ahmed , a rates
strategist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto. There’s a “visible
rotation out of bonds and into stocks,” he said.  Investors are dumping North American bonds, reversing the
buying frenzy that led up to the Federal Reserve’s Nov. 3
announcement that it would buy U.S. bonds in a policy known as
quantitative easing. The sell-off accelerated last week on
President  Barack Obama ’s plan to extend Bush-era tax cuts.  Canadian 10-year  yields  gained 56 basis points to 3.37
percent today, from 2.81 percent on Nov. 4, the day after the
Fed unveiled plans to buy $600 billion in Treasuries through
June to spur economic growth. The yields are rising so fast they
exceed all 18 of the March 2011 forecasts of economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The highest, from  Kurt Karl , Swiss Re’s chief
U.S. economist, calls for yields at 3.2 percent by then. The
weighted average estimate is 2.95 percent.  Fibonacci Analysis  Ten-year yields touched 3.347 percent yesterday, topping
3.341 percent, which represents the 61.8 percent Fibonacci
 retracement  from the April 20 high. Fibonacci analysis, modeled
on patterns that appear in nature, is based on the theory that
prices rise or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high
or low. It was developed by a 13th century mathematician,
Leonardo da Pisa, known as Fibonacci, who discovered the
sequence while studying the reproduction rate of rabbits.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Genworth MI Canada sold C$150
million ($149 million) in 4.59 percent bonds maturing in
December 2015, Manulife Financial Corp.’s credit ratings were
cut by Standard & Poor’s and Royal Bank of Canada was lowered by
Moody’s Investors Service.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian corporations rather than the federal government
remained yesterday at 142 basis points, or 1.42 percentage
points, unchanged from Dec. 10, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. Corporate bonds are up 6.2 percent this
year, compared with 8.7 percent for U.S. corporate bonds and 6.7
percent for global corporates.  RBC Downgrade  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Royal Bank of Canada’s
 credit rating  for the first time in at least 15 years to Aa1,
the second-highest rating, from Aaa because of the lender’s
increased focus on investment banking and trading. Moody’s
downgrade brings it more in line with S&P’s, which rates the
bank AA-, its fourth-highest grade.  Manulife Financial Corp., the country’s biggest insurer,
had its rating cut to A- by S&P, which cited weak U.S. earnings.  In provincial bond markets, relative yields tightened to 53
basis points, from 54 at the end of last week, as yields fell to
3.29 percent, according to Merrill Lynch data. The 397 bonds
with a par value of C$468 billion have advanced 5.9 percent this
year, after gains of 3.7 percent and 6.8 percent in the previous
two years.  Government bonds are down 0.8 percent this month, trimming
the 2010 advance to 5.3 percent. That compares with a gain of
5.6 percent this year for Treasuries. Global sovereign bonds are
3.3 percent higher this year.  Debt Auction  Canada will auction tomorrow C$3 billion of 1.75 percent
notes maturing in March 2013. The previous government sale of
two-year bonds, on Nov. 10, drew an average yield of 1.56
percent and a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.45 times, according to
 data  on the Bank of Canada’s Web site.  Royal Bank raised its five-year mortgage rate 20 basis
points to 4.24 percent yesterday, reflecting rising bond yields.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said the refusal by
some countries to let their exchange rates float is slowing
inflation in advanced economies, which may spark additional
loosening of policies globally.  Keeping currencies fixed has begun to force inflation
higher in emerging markets and disinflation elsewhere, which
“reinforces the low-interest-rate strategies of major advanced
economies and may necessitate further rounds of quantitative
easing,” Carney, 45, said in the text of a speech he gave in
Toronto yesterday.  Household Debt  Canadian households posted higher debt ratios than their
U.S. counterparts for the first time in 12 years. The ratio of
household credit market debt-to-personal disposable income rose
to 148.1 percent from 143.4 percent as income fell 1.5 percent,
Statistics Canada said in a report from Ottawa. U.S. debts
represent 147.2 percent of households’ disposable income,
according to the U.S. central bank.  Canada’s index of leading economic indicators rose 0.3
percent in November, the second straight gain, led by increases
in housing and stock prices, the statistics agency said.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the index would
rise 0.5 percent, based on the median of nine estimates.  “Chatter surrounds two key technical points in Canada’s
bond market,”  Mark Chandler , head of Canadian currency and
fixed-income strategy at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto, wrote
in a note to clients yesterday. He cited the five-year yield
breaking its 200-day moving average, and the Canadian and U.S.
10-year yields reaching parity.  Moving Average  “Both of these moves point to some bearish upcoming moves
in Canadian fixed-income markets, though we would suggest they
are premature,” Chandler said.  The benchmark five-year bond’s  yield  rose to 2.60 percent
today. It closed above the 200-day moving average, a momentum
indicator, of 2.465 percent on Dec. 8 for the first time June
16. The 200-day moving average is calculated by adding the
closing prices for the last 200 days and dividing by 200. As new
prices are added, older prices drop off.  Yields on 10-year U.S. government bonds exceeded their
Canadian equivalent by 10 basis points today, the  most  since
April 26. They last converged in May. The U.S. 10-year yield has
increased 55 basis points to 3.47 percent since Obama and
congressional Republicans agreed last week to extend Bush-era
tax cuts, including cuts for the wealthy.  Stocks, Fed  Thirty-year Canada yields rose as high as 3.772 percent
today, piercing 3.744 percent, which is the 50 percent Fibonacci
retracement level from the high this year on Jan. 7. Traders use
Fibonacci levels to establish targets once a so-called trend
reversal occurs.  The S&P/TSX Composite Index, Canada’s primary stock gauge,
is up 4.6 percent since Nov. 2, the day before Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  embarked on the latest round of unconventional
easing. The S&P 500 Index is up 3.9 percent during that period.  A decrease in trading volume before the Christmas holidays
may mean price swings in government securities are exaggerated,
according to CIBC’s Ahmed.  “Winter holidays in the coming weeks are likely to
contribute to illiquidity and exacerbate moves in an already
weak market,” the strategist wrote.  The Fed stuck with its plan to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June amid criticism from top Republican
lawmakers. The purchases will “promote a stronger pace of
economic recovery” and keep prices stable “over time,” the
Federal Open Market Committee said today in a statement in
Washington. It added that unemployment is too high, and repeated
a pledge to leave the benchmark interest rate low for an
“extended period.” The rate has been a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  