-- Rafael Nadal, Caroline Wozniacki Named This Year's Tennis World Champions
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-14T11:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/rafael-nadal-caroline-wozniacki-named-this-year-s-tennis-world-champions.html
Rafael Nadal  and  Caroline Wozniacki ,
the top-ranked tennis players, were named ITF world champions,
the  International Tennis Federation  said.  “This has been another memorable year for tennis,” ITF
president  Francesco Ricci Bitti  said in an e-mailed statement.
“Nadal has proved himself to be one of the greatest competitors
in the sport’s history, while Caroline Wozniacki has shown a
strong determination and continuous commitment to the game to
earn the women’s No. 1 ranking at such a young age.”  Nadal this year won his fifth  French Open , a second
 Wimbledon  championship and the  U.S. Open . His triumph in New
York made the 24-year-old lefthander from Majorca the youngest
man since tennis turned professional to have won all the four
tennis majors.  “It is an honor to be named ITF World Champion for the
second time,” Nadal said. “After a difficult year in 2009, it
was an amazing feeling to regain the No. 1 ranking and finally
win the U.S. Open. My goal all the time is to keep improving and
be a better player each year than I was the previous year.”  Wozniacki became the fourth-youngest woman after Martina
Hingis, Monica Seles and Steffi Graf to earn the year-end No. 1
ranking.  “To be listed with all the former ITF world champions is
something I am really proud of,” Wozniacki said. “I had a
great year in 2010 and I’m training hard to have an even better
year in 2011.”  Although the 20-year-old righthander from Denmark was the
most consistent player on the women’s circuit, winning a WTA
Tour-high six titles, she had yet to win a major.  Replacing Serena  Wozniacki this year made the semifinals of the U.S. Open
and the quarterfinals of Roland Garros.  Serena Williams , last
year’s ITF world champion, won the Australian Open and
Wimbledon. The American, whose foot injury has stopped her from
playing since she grabbed her 13th major trophy at Wimbledon,
lost her No. 1 ranking to Wozniacki in October.  Bob and Mike Bryan  were named men’s doubles world champions
for the seventh time in eight years. The U.S. twins won 11
titles without losing in a final, including two trophies at the
Australian Open and U.S. Open.  Gisela Dulko  of Argentina and Italy’s  Flavia Pennetta  were
chosen as women’s doubles world champions. In only their first
season together, the pair won seven titles, including the
season-ending WTA Championships in Doha, and finished the year
as No. 1.  The ITF’s selection of its senior world champions is based
on a system that considers not only performances in the Grand
Slam tournaments and respective tours, but also gives weight to
performances in the two ITF elite team competitions, the Davis
Cup and Fed Cup.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  