-- Treasuries Tumble as Fed Cites Economic Recovery Signs, Maintains Easing
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-12-14T22:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/treasuries-drop-as-federal-reserve-cites-recovery-signs-maintains-easing.html
Treasuries plunged, pushing the 30-
year bond  yield  to a seven-month high, as Federal Reserve policy
makers said the U.S. recovery is continuing and maintained a
$600 billion program of debt purchases.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year notes over
2-year debt was the highest since April on speculation President
 Barack Obama ’s agreement to extend tax cuts will win passage in
Congress, supporting growth and stoking inflation. Retail sales
rose more than forecast, and producer prices increased the most
in eight months, government reports showed.  “The Fed doesn’t change anything,” said  Anthony Crescenzi , a bond strategist at Newport Beach, California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., which operates the world’s
biggest bond fund. “The market is benefiting from a drop in
risk aversion and an improvement in economic outlook. The trend
remains intact.”  The 30-year bond yield increased 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 4.53 percent at 5:16 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 4.25 percent
security maturing in November 2040 dropped 1 30/32, or $19.38
per $1,000 face amount, to 95 14/32. The yield touched 4.56
percent, the highest level since May 3.  The yield on the 10-year note advanced as much as 22 basis
points to 3.49 percent, the highest level since May 18. The 2-
year note yield gained seven basis points to 0.65 percent.  Yield Curve  The difference in yield between the notes increased 13
basis points to 282 basis points, the widest spread since April
7. It was the biggest steepening of the Treasury yield curve
since Nov. 15, when a group including former Republican
government officials and economists urged the Fed to rethink
quantitative easing.  Fed officials today kept their plan to buy Treasuries
through June under quantitative easing, disappointing some
investors by not expanding record stimulus.  On Dec. 5, Bernanke said in an interview broadcast on CBS
Corp.’s “60 Minutes” that buying more government bonds is
“certainly possible.” The Fed chairman said an increase
“depends on the efficacy of the program” and the outlook for
inflation and the economy.  “People were complacent about the Fed and their original
QE intentions and communication, and they now have to backtrack
and think about the things QE might be linked to,” said  Russ Certo , a managing director and co-head of rates trading at
Gleacher & Co. in New York. “There was a constituency that
anticipated a little bit of lip service toward greater
purchases, and that certainly didn’t materialize. That
percentage of the trading market community was disappointed.”  ‘Extended Period’  The central bank retained a commitment to keep its
benchmark interest rate low for an “extended period,” holding
the target rate for overnight lending between banks at zero to
0.25 percent, where it has been since December 2008.  “The economic recovery is continuing, though at a rate
that has been insufficient to bring down unemployment,” the Fed
statement said. “Household spending is increasing at a moderate
pace, but remains constrained by high unemployment, modest
income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit.”  Treasury 30-year  bonds  fell on Nov. 3, when the Fed
announced additional debt purchases, as the central bank planned
to buy less of the securities than investors anticipated. The
bonds also dropped on bets the central bank would be successful
in reigniting inflation.  In its first round of purchases, ended in March, the Fed
bought $1.7 trillion in securities, including $300 billion in
Treasuries, to spur economic growth strong enough to lower
unemployment from near a 26-year high.  Retail Sales  U.S. debt fell earlier as the Commerce Department reported
that  retail sales  gained 0.8 percent last month as Americans
began holiday shopping. The median forecast of 77 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 0.6 percent.  Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose in November by the most in
eight months, led by higher prices for gasoline, heating oil and
fruit. The producer price index increased 0.8 percent from the
prior month after a 0.4 percent advance, the Labor Department
said. Excluding more volatile food and energy costs, the core
measure posted the smallest year-over-year gain in five months.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and
comparable-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a
gauge of trader expectations for the annual increase in consumer
prices over the life of the debt known as the break-even rate,
touched 2.29 percentage points on Dec. 8, the most since May 13.  Gain in Yield  The 10-year  yield  has risen more than 80 basis points since
Nov. 11, the day before the second round of quantitative easing
began. Yields advanced as the economy showed signs of recovery
and Obama agreed on Dec. 6 to a two-year extension of tax cuts
in return for extending long-term jobless benefits for 13 months
and cutting the payroll tax by $120 billion for a year.  “The degree of the backup is much further than we would
have expected, said  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. rates
strategy for fixed income and currencies at Royal Bank of Canada
in New York. “There have been positive growth numbers out there
that have weighed on Treasuries, but even with that it’s not
enough to bring down unemployment and raise the inflation risk.
We don’t expect any changes in QE until June.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  