-- Treasuries Fall Before Fed, Pushing 30-Year Bond Yield to Seven-Month High
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-12-14T17:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/treasuries-fall-before-retail-sales-report-yields-approach-six-month-high.html
Treasuries dropped, pushing the 30-
year bond yield to a seven-month high, as reports before the
Federal Reserve’s statement showed retail sales increased more
than forecast and producer prices accelerated.  U.S. debt also fell on bets President  Barack Obama ’s plan
to extend tax cuts will win passage in Congress, supporting the
economic recovery. Policy makers led by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  meeting today in Washington may reiterate support for
government debt purchases known as quantitative easing.  “The data we’ve seen have been positive for the economy
and certainly lessens the worries of a deflationary
environment,” said  Jason Rogan , director of U.S. government
trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage
for institutional investors. “That has helped to bring about
selling in the market. We’re not anticipating any change in
policy. Bernanke may talk further about the need for QE2. People
will try to see if there’s a willingness to buy more.”  The 10-year note yield increased 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 3.38 percent at 12:50 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 fell 27/32, or $8.44
per $1,000 face amount, to 93 21/32.  A drop of more than one point in 30-year bonds pushed the
 yield  up 12 basis points to 4.53 percent, the highest level
since May 4. The two-year note yield advanced three basis points
to 0.61 percent.  Ten-Year Yield  The  yield  on the 10-year note touched 3.39 percent, the
highest level since June 3. The yield will rise to 3.55 percent
by the end of 2011, according to the average forecast in a
weighted Bloomberg survey of economists.  “In the medium to long term, the trend is up in terms of
yields,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in London.  The Fed, holding its final policy meeting of 2010 today,
announced on Nov. 3 an additional $600 billion of Treasury
purchases through June under the policy known as quantitative
easing to support the economic recovery.  Buying more government bonds is “certainly possible,” Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an interview broadcast on CBS
Corp.’s “60 Minutes” on Dec. 5. “It depends on the efficacy
of the program” and the outlook for inflation and the economy,
Bernanke said.  “The market probably expects that Bernanke will very much
be jawboning and talking up QE2 as a responsible policy,” said
 Damien McColough , head of fixed-income research in Sydney at
Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-largest lender. “I’m
not hugely bearish from here” on Treasuries.  Fed Debt Buying  Primary dealers, firms that trade directly with the Fed,
submitted yesterday $18.268 billion of debt due from June 2016
to November 2017 for possible purchase by the central bank,
compared with $33.126 billion in the same maturity range on Dec.
9. The Fed bought $7.79 billion of debt yesterday, part of
$105 billion in purchases over the next month.  The Senate advanced yesterday Obama’s $858 billion
agreement with Republicans to extend all Bush-era income-tax
cuts, and Senate passage may come today. The 83-15 vote had
widespread support from members of both political parties.  Obama’s deal, announced Dec. 6, includes a two-year
extension of tax rates in return for extending long-term jobless
benefits for 13 months and cutting the payroll tax by
$120 billion for a year.  The extension of tax cuts is likely to boost economic
growth in the next two years but will “adversely affect” the
budget deficit, Moody’s Senior Credit Officer  Steven Hess  in New
York wrote in a note yesterday.  ‘Credit-Negative’  “Unless there are offsetting measures, the package will be
credit-negative for the U.S. and increase the likelihood of a
negative outlook on the U.S. government’s Aaa rating during the
next two years,” Hess wrote.  Retail sales  gained 0.8 percent last month as Americans
started their holiday shopping, the Commerce Department reported
today. The median forecast of 77 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for an increase of 0.6 percent.  Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose in November by the most in
eight months, led by higher prices for gasoline, heating oil and
fruit. The producer price index increased 0.8 percent from the
prior month after a 0.4 percent advance, the Labor Department
said. Excluding more volatile food and energy costs, the core
measure posted the smallest year-over-year gain in five months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  