-- Renault Samurais Beating Mazda Debt With BOJ Cutting Yields: Japan Credit
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2010-12-15T00:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/renault-samurais-beating-mazda-debt-with-boj-cutting-yields-japan-credit.html
The Bank of Japan’s plan to buy 35
trillion yen ($418 billion) of assets to reduce borrowing rates
may be helping France’s Renault SA more than Mazda Motor Corp.  Sales of yen-denominated Samurai bonds by borrowers outside
Japan jumped 34 percent this year to 1.74 trillion yen, the most
since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yields
on the notes compared with government debt dropped 13 basis
points to 89 since the central bank said it would buy corporate
bonds on Oct. 5, according to Nomura Securities Co.’s Bond
Performance Indexes. The gap for  domestic company notes  narrowed
two basis points to 28.  “The BOJ’s easing policy benefitted foreign borrowers
rather than the Japanese,”  Mana Nakazora , chief credit analyst
at BNP Paribas Securities Co. in Tokyo, said in a telephone
interview. “Investors are rushing to get relatively richer
spreads.”  The central bank’s December  Tankan  report today showed
business confidence slumped for the first time in seven quarters
amid growing concern the economy’s year-old recovery is petering
out. The spread on Boulogne Billancourt-based Renault’s 2013
Samurai bonds fell 61 basis points since Oct. 5, compared with a
25 basis-point drop on similar-maturity debt from Hiroshima-
based competitor Mazda, Bloomberg data show.  Renault Bonds  Renault’s 2.09 percent Samurai bonds due January 2013 yield
212 basis points more than similar-dated Japanese government
debt. The maker of Clio and Espace autos sold 45 billion yen of
two-year, 1.95 percent bonds on Dec. 3 in its first Samurais
since January 2008. The relative yield on its 800 million euros
($1.07 billion) of 4.375 percent bonds due 2013 slid 28 basis
points to 220 since Oct. 5, according to Bloomberg data.  Mazda’s 1.65 percent yen bonds maturing March 2013 trade at
a 40 basis-point spread, the data show. Rating and Investment
Information Inc. ranks Renault at BBB+, its third-lowest
investment grade, and Mazda one step lower at BBB.  Yen securities sold by companies from Bentonville,
Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  to  Westpac Banking Corp.  in
Sydney are benefiting from demand for higher yields than on
Japanese corporate debt. The nation’s households have saved
1,445 trillion yen, according to a Sept. 17 BOJ report, with
much of it in stored deposits that pay almost zero interest.  Limited Scope  “Japanese corporate bonds don’t have spreads to tighten in
the first place,” said  Yoshihiro Nakatani , a senior fund
manager at Asahi Life Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, who helps
manage 70 billion yen of assets. “So, money is going toward
Samurai bonds, lowering their spreads.”  Company bonds are outperforming government debt this
quarter after the BOJ said it would buy 500 billion yen of
corporate debt rated BBB or higher. The central bank was offered
269.8 billion yen of bonds when it bought 100 billion yen in a
Dec. 3 auction.  The BOJ also said it would expand purchases of government
debt by 3.5 trillion yen. Yields on  benchmark bonds  are heading
toward the biggest quarterly increase since June 2008 on
optimism about a global recovery. The yield on the 1.2 percent
10-year bond due December 2020 rose to 1.25 percent yesterday
from 0.93 percent on Sept. 30.  Investors in Japanese corporate bonds lost 0.9 percent
since Sept. 30, less than the 2 percent drop for government debt,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Buyers of U.S. company debt lost 2.1 percent as of Dec. 13,
while  Treasuries  slid 2.7 percent, the indexes show.  Buying Indonesia  Asahi Life’s Nakatani said he’s selling higher-rated
domestic securities and buying Indonesia’s 10-year sovereign
Samurai bonds because “the yields are so different.”  Indonesia sold 60 billion yen of 1.6 percent bonds on Nov.
4 priced to yield 55 basis points more than the yen swap rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt is partly
guaranteed by the Japan Bank for International Cooperation.  The yields on Japanese corporate bonds averaged 0.97
percent yesterday versus 1.37 percent on Samurai bonds,
according to Nomura indexes.  Japanese borrowing costs dropped to the lowest in the world
because of deflation. The difference between yields on five-year
Japanese government notes and inflation-linked debt, a gauge of
investor expectations for price changes, expanded two basis
points yesterday to minus 0.69 percent. Deflation, an extended
decline in prices, boosts demand for the fixed payments that
bonds offer.  Shrinking Economy  Japan’s gross domestic product is expected to shrink at a
1.9 percent annual pace in the three months through December,
according to a survey of 42 economists released Dec. 8 by the
Economic Planning Association. The BOJ’s December Tankan report
showed an index of sentiment among large manufacturers dropped
for the first time since the end of the global financial crisis
last year, sliding to 5 from 8 in September. The median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a reading of 3.  The relative yield on New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
1.8 percent Samurai notes due in May 2014 narrowed to 78 basis
points as of Dec. 13 from 90 on Oct. 5. The spread on Tokyo-
based Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.’s 1.235 percent notes due in
June 2014 shrank to 19 from 22, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Both banks are rated A+ by Standard & Poor’s.  Hana Bank , a unit of South Korea’s fourth-largest financial
company, raised 30 billion yen from its first sale of Samurai
bonds last month.  Lloyds TSB Bank Plc , a London-based unit of
the U.K.’s largest mortgage lender, sold 33.4 billion yen in its
first Samurais, including five-year, 2.28 percent bonds.  ‘Inevitable’  “It’s inevitable that money is directed into Samurai bonds,
which have high credit ratings and spreads,” said
 Toshiyasu Ohashi , head of credit research at Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co. in Tokyo. “We need time until we see more
new domestic borrowers or those with higher risk.”  Seven domestic borrowers sold bonds rated BBB by Japanese
risk assessors in the seven weeks since the BOJ’s plan to
purchase such debt was first reported, twice as many as in the
same period last year, Bloomberg data show. Nippon Sheet Glass
Co., which acquired Pilkington Group Ltd. in 2006, raised 24
billion yen on Dec. 3 from its first public sale of bonds since
May 2008. The five-year, 1.55 percent bonds were priced to yield
90 basis points more than the yen swap rate.  Five-year credit-default swaps on 50 Japanese investment-
grade borrowers bonds rose 0.6 basis point to 101.5 basis points
yesterday, CMA prices in New York show. The contracts pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net 
 Emi Urabe  in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  