-- Republican National Committee Chairman Michael Steele to Seek Second Term
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2010-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/republican-national-committee-chairman-michael-steele-to-seek-second-term.html
Republican National Committee
Chairman  Michael Steele  said he will seek a second term,
shrugging off criticism that he lacks enough support to win.  “Our work is not done, and my commitment has not ended,”
Steele said in a statement e-mailed to committee members after a
private conference call last night during which he announced his
decision.  Steele’s re-election bid sets up a battle over who will
steer the party’s efforts in the 2012 presidential campaign. His
term expires in January, when the committee will vote on the
next chairman.  Several other contenders have announced they are running to
lead the party amid criticism that Steele, a former Maryland
lieutenant governor, has failed to direct a robust fundraising
effort and been prone to verbal gaffes during his two-year term.  In the statement, Steele defended his record, while
acknowledging he has made mistakes. “I have stumbled along the
way, but have always accounted to you for such shortcomings,”
the statement said. “No excuses. No lies. No hidden agenda.”  Steele added, “Who you elect as our next chairman will
speak volumes about our willingness to truly be the party of
Lincoln.”  Steele, who was elected shortly after President  Barack Obama ’s 2008 election, is the organization’s first black
chairman and had been selected to help recast his party’s image
after two cycles of major Republican losses at the ballot box.  ‘Great Communicator’  “Steele got elected because we wanted a great communicator
to put up against their great communicator,” said  Alex Castellanos , a Republican strategist. “What we needed was a
great manager.”  In his statement, Steele pledged to “dramatically
increase” fundraising for the 2012 cycle by stepping up
collections from small donors.  He said more than 1 million people have given so far this
year, more than in the last midterm cycle. The average gift has
been $39.98, he said. He acknowledged that the RNC has lost a
“significant number” of former major donors to other groups
led by former chairmen and said he is working to win them back.  Pressure has been building on Steele to give up the party
chairmanship as he lost support from key allies in recent weeks.  Earlier this month, Reince Priebus, chairman of the
Wisconsin Republican Party and Steele’s former legal counsel,
said he would run to lead the national party. Priebus was a
Steele ally, and his candidacy would likely peel support away
from a re-election bid. He has the backing of  Henry Barbour , a
nephew of Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , a former RNC
chairman.  Fundraising Failures  In November, Republican political director Gentry Collins
resigned with a letter criticizing Steele’s management of the
national committee, saying fundraising failures led to some
close Republican losses in the last election.  A handful of other contenders have already announced their
bids, including  Maria Cino , a former official under President
 George W. Bush  who has the backing of former national party
Chairman  Ed Gillespie  and former Vice President  Dick Cheney .  Others include former Michigan Republican Party Chairman
Saul Anuzis and Ann Wagner of Missouri, a former RNC co-
chairwoman.  Norm Coleman , a former Minnesota senator, is also
considering a bid.  Scorned Over Statements  Steele has drawn fire from within the party for several of
his public statements.  In July, Arizona Republican Senator  John McCain , the
party’s 2008 presidential nominee, criticized as “wildly
inaccurate” a comment by Steele that the conflict in
Afghanistan, which began after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, “was a war of Obama’s choosing.”  In an interview with GQ magazine in 2009 Steele called
abortion an “individual choice,” sparking an outcry among the
Republican Party’s social conservative base. Steele later
clarified that he was anti-abortion.  Shortly after he was elected, he said he wanted to apply
the party’s principles to “urban-suburban hip-hop settings.”
The comment became fodder for comedians and critics given that
the Republican Party didn’t have a single black member in the
House or Senate at the time.  Steele also faced criticism after financial reports showed
the party paid almost $2,000 for meals at a West Hollywood,
California, nightclub that features topless dancers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  