-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose in November as Consumers Boost Recovery
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-12-14T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/retail-sales-probably-rose-in-november-as-consumers-boosted-u-s-recovery.html
Sales  at U.S. retailers probably
climbed in November for a fifth consecutive month as holiday
shopping got under way, a sign consumers will play a bigger role
in the recovery, economists said before a report today.  The projected 0.6 percent gain would follow a 1.2 percent
October rise in purchases, according to the  median  of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other figures may show
 wholesale costs  were contained and inventories rose.  Customers snapped up discounts at chains like  Target Corp. 
and Macy’s Inc. during the Thanksgiving weekend, the traditional
kick-off to the busiest sales season of the year. Even as the
world’s largest economy gains momentum heading into 2011, high
 unemployment  and the risk of a prolonged drop in prices remain
concerns for Federal Reserve policy makers set to meet today.  “The holiday season is off to a pretty good start,” said
 Drew Matus , senior U.S. economist at UBS Securities LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Consumers are in a much better place
than they were last year or even six months ago, and they’re
going to take the lead in the recovery in 2011. High
unemployment is a headline that will be there for some time.”  The Commerce Department’s sales figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from increases
of 0.1 percent to 1.3 percent.  Excluding  auto dealers and
gasoline stations, sales likely accelerated.  Also at 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department may report the
producer price index rose 0.6 percent in November from the prior
month, according to the Bloomberg survey median. Excluding food
and fuel, core prices were probably up 1.2 percent from November
2009, the smallest year-over-year gain since June.  Holiday Inventory  Inventories  climbed 1 percent in October as companies
stocked shelves for the holidays, the survey median showed. The
Commerce Department figures are due at 10 a.m.  Retailers began cutting prices earlier in November than the
past few years and continued through Black Friday, the day after
Thanksgiving. Sales at stores open at least a year climbed by
the most in eight months from November 2009, industry reports
showed.  Target and  Costco Wholesale Corp.  led the sales gains for
discounters last month, while teen retailer Abercrombie & Fitch
Co. and department stores Macy’s and  J.C. Penney Co.  also posted
better-than-forecast increases.  Purchases are broadening out beyond holiday gifts and
clothing. Home Depot Inc., the world’s largest home-improvement
retailer, lifted its full-year profit forecast on stronger
fourth-quarter demand for plumbing and electrical items and
Christmas trees.  Sales ‘Strength’  “As we look at November into December, we see strength
across the store,” Chief Financial Officer Carol Tome said Dec.
8 by telephone from an analysts’ meeting in Boston. The Atlanta-
based company had a “terrific Black Friday.”  The National Retail Federation has forecast the November-
December holiday sales gain will be the biggest since 2006. A
Bloomberg survey taken Dec. 2 to Dec. 8 showed economists raised
2011 projections for consumer purchases, the biggest part of the
economy, to 2.6 percent from 2.3 percent estimated last month.  Investors have driven up retailer shares this year as
spending accelerated. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Retailing  Index  has gained 25 percent this year, compared with
an 11 percent advance for the broader  S&P 500  gauge.  While recent gains in  consumer sentiment  bode well for
retail sales, the unemployment rate, which in November reached a
seven-month high of 9.8 percent, remains a hurdle.  Fed policy makers, who meet today for the final time this
year, may reiterate the strategy to buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June to try to trim joblessness
and avert deflation, or an extended drop in prices.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  