-- Richard Holbrooke, U.S. Diplomat From Vietnam to Afghanistan, Dies Aged 69
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2010-12-14T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/richard-holbrooke-u-s-diplomat-from-vietnam-to-afghanistan-dies-aged-69.html
Richard Holbrooke , whose drive to
end ethnic warring in the former Yugoslavia, open diplomatic
relations with China and guide the Obama administration’s
engagement with Afghanistan and Pakistan made him a global
trouble-shooter for the U.S., has died. He was 69.  The State Department announced his death in a statement
yesterday. He had undergone surgery to repair a tear in his
aorta after falling ill on Dec. 10 while working at State
Department headquarters in Washington.  “One of his friends and admirers once said that, ‘If
you’re not on the team and you’re in his way, God help you,’”
President  Barack Obama  said in a statement. “Like so many
presidents before me, I am grateful that Richard Holbrooke was
on my team, as are the American people.”  Under four Democratic presidents, from  Lyndon Johnson  to
Obama, Holbrooke worked on some of the most important
diplomatic issues of his era, starting with Vietnam in the
Johnson White House.  “Of this generation of Americans there is virtually no
one who has had as long, sustained and brilliant attention to
the nation’s interests abroad than has Richard Holbrooke,”
said  Frank Wisner , a former U.S. ambassador to India and friend
of Holbrooke. “Since the Vietnam War, there has been no issue
of national significance that he has not paid attention to or
worked on. His range is truly extraordinary.”  Holbrooke was renowned for his vast intellect, an ego to
match, and an arsenal of weapons ranging from flattery and
patience to anger and, when necessary, shouting.  ‘Breathless Monologue’  “I wouldn’t call it conversation,”  Leslie Gelb ,
president emeritus of the New York-based Council on Foreign
Relations and a former U.S. assistant secretary of state, told
the New Yorker magazine for a 2009 profile of Holbrooke. “It’s
this sort of breathless monologue that you can only engage by
interrupting. Dick is an advocate. He almost always has a case
to make.”  Holbrooke was probably best-known for his work as
President  Bill Clinton ’s special mediator to end the war in
Bosnia, which culminated in a 20-day negotiating session at the
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. The resulting
Dayton peace accord, as it came to be known, divided Bosnia
into a Muslim-Croat Federation and a Serbian Republic.  “In a lifetime of passionate, brilliant service on the
front lines of war and peace, freedom and oppression, Richard
Holbrooke saved lives, secured peace and restored hope for
countless people around the world,” Clinton said in a
statement.  ‘To End a War’  In “ To End a War ,” his 1998 memoir, Holbrooke said the
U.S. and other nations were late to respond to atrocities by
Bosnia’s Serbs because of a misguided sense that no outsider
could resolve the hatred among Bosnians, Serbs and Croats.  “Yugoslavia’s tragedy was not foreordained,” he wrote.
“It was the product of bad, even criminal, political leaders
who encouraged ethnic confrontation for personal, political and
financial gain.”  In 1998 Holbrooke accepted the challenge of mediating
another conflict in the Balkans, the war in Kosovo. Negotiating
with Yugoslav President  Slobodan Milosevic  -- the Serb
nationalist who died behind bars in 2006 while facing charges
of crimes against humanity -- Holbrooke helped win a cease-fire
agreement that averted a North Atlantic Treaty Organization
attack on Belgrade, though only temporarily.  When further peace talks failed five months later, NATO
launched 78 days of air strikes that ultimately pressured
Milosevic to withdraw troops from Kosovo.  Eye on Balkans  Tension and occasional violence continued in the Balkans
after Holbrooke’s involvement. In 2008, Kosovo declared
independence from Serbia. Holbrooke and  Paddy Ashdown , who was
the European Union’s special representative in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, warned in an October 2008  column  that Bosnia was
again “in real danger of collapse.”  Holbrooke was a denizen of Wall Street and the nonprofit
community during Republican  George W. Bush ’s eight years as
president. He was vice chairman of Perseus LLC, a private-
equity firm in New York City, and chaired the Asia Society, the
American Academy in Berlin and the Global Business Coalition on
HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.  He also served on the board of  American International
Group Inc.  from 2001 to July 2008, leaving two months before
the insurer’s near-collapse, which led to a multibillion-dollar
federal bailout. When AIG’s retention bonuses became a
political issue early in Obama’s term, a White House spokesman
said Holbrooke had nothing to do with the bonuses.  Hillary Clinton  He served as a foreign-policy adviser to  Hillary Clinton 
from her U.S. Senate days through her campaign against Obama
for the 2008 Democratic nomination. Clinton, now U.S. secretary
of state, said in a statement that Holbrooke was “the
consummate diplomat, able to stare down dictators and stand up
for America’s interests and values even under the most
difficult circumstances.”  The warming of relations that led to Obama naming Clinton
to his cabinet also opened the door for Holbrooke to join the
administration, and Obama named him special representative for
Afghanistan and Pakistan days after becoming president in
January 2009.  Holbrooke spent the past two years visiting Afghanistan
and Pakistan and seeking support from allies to help promote
economic development.  Husain Haqqani , Pakistan’s ambassador to
the U.S., said in a statement that he asked Holbrooke last week
how long he planned to keep working. He said Holbrooke replied,
“As long as I can make a difference.”  ‘Personal Friend’  “His greatest asset was his ability to be a personal
friend and diplomatic interlocutor at the same time,” Haqqani
said.  For months, Holbrooke dealt with speculation that his days
as envoy were numbered.  A June 2010 Rolling Stone magazine story that led to
General  Stanley McChrystal , the top U.S. commander in
Afghanistan, being relieved of duty described him at one point
making a show of being reluctant to open an e-mail from
Holbrooke; a McChrystal aide, not named by the magazine,
explained that the general considered Holbrooke a “wounded
animal.”  In a statement on Dec. 11, Obama called Holbrooke “a
towering figure in American foreign policy, a critical member
of my Afghanistan and Pakistan team and a tireless public
servant who has won the admiration of the American people and
people around the world.”  Combat in Afghanistan  Holbrooke said last month the Obama administration hoped
to end U.S. combat operations in Afghanistan in 2014. He
emphasized the U.S. wouldn’t then turn its back on the country,
a mistake he said the Soviet Union made in 1989.  Addressing reporters in Washington on Oct. 29, Holbrooke
talked up a newly signed trade agreement between Afghanistan
and Pakistan that, he said, constituted “a political
breakthrough” that was barely noticed by U.S. media.  “I cannot stress too highly that unless the two countries
close that historic gap and work closely together, this war
will go on, no matter how successful we are elsewhere, for the
simplest of reasons -- the Taliban will exploit differences
between the two countries and move from one country to the
other,” he said.  James Hoge , longtime editor of Foreign Affairs magazine,
said his friend Holbrooke “accepted the most difficult
assignments, often at great personal cost. He was an inspiring
leader to those who worked closely with him.”  Brown to Vietnam  Richard Charles Albert Holbrooke was born April 24, 1941,
in New York City, the first of two sons of Dan Holbrooke, a
doctor, and Trudi Moos, the daughter of a leather exporter in
Germany, according to a 1998 New York Times profile. Both his
parents, as Jews, fled the Nazis in the 1930s.  Holbrooke graduated from Scarsdale High School, in the
suburbs of New York, and from Brown University. He joined the
U.S. Foreign Service in 1962, learned Vietnamese and was sent
to Vietnam, where he represented the Agency for International
Development in the Mekong Delta and then worked as staff
assistant to U.S. Ambassadors Maxwell Taylor and Henry Cabot
Lodge.  At the Johnson White House, he wrote one volume of what
became known as the  Pentagon Papers , the secret history of U.S.
involvement in Vietnam that later would be leaked to the New
York Times. In 1968 he was part of the U.S. delegation in Paris,
led by  W. Averell Harriman , that opened negotiations with North
Vietnam.  ‘Immense Costs’  The experience left a deep impression about combat.  “I must conclude that our goals in Vietnam did not
justify the immense costs of the war,” Holbrooke said at a
conference last September on the U.S. experience in Southeast
Asia.  He said the U.S. “pursued a policy that would have denied
Vietnam to the enemy only as long as our ground troops remained,
but would not have left the Saigon government strong enough to
survive on its own. When we send our young men and women
overseas to fight for their country, we must be sure they’re
really fighting for our vital national security interests.”  As assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific
affairs under President  Jimmy Carter , Holbrooke was in charge
of relations with China when diplomatic ties were normalized in
1978. In a  2008 column , he recalled that he and others in the
Carter administration “managed to keep our intense
negotiations completely secret” for two years leading up to
the accord.  He described the Chinese negotiating style as “firm on
principle, flexible on specifics.”  Ambassador to Germany  President Clinton named him U.S. ambassador to Germany,
then assistant secretary of state for Europe, then ambassador
to the United Nations.  At the UN, Holbrooke persuaded other countries to
recognize AIDS as a national-security issue, said  Nancy Soderberg , who served as Holbrooke’s alternate. She described
him as “a force of nature, personally and intellectually.”  In between his government posts he worked as Peace Corps
director in Morocco, editor of Foreign Policy, vice chairman of
Credit Suisse First Boston and managing director of Lehman
Brothers. He collaborated on  Clark Clifford ’s  memoir , “Counsel
to the President.”  Holbrooke’s 1995 marriage to  Kati Marton , an author and
radio host, was his third. His first two marriages ended in
divorce and produced two sons, Anthony and David.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  