-- Richard Holbrooke, U.S. Global Trouble-Shooter, Dies at 69
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2010-12-14T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/richard-holbrooke-global-trouble-shooter-for-u-s-governments-dies-at-69.html
Richard Holbrooke , a global trouble-
shooter for the U.S. who took on such issues as ethnic warring
in the former Yugoslavia, the start of diplomatic relations with
China and managing the Obama administration’s engagement with
Afghanistan and Pakistan, has died. He was 69.  He had undergone surgery to repair a tear in his aorta
after falling ill on Dec. 10 while working at State Department
headquarters in Washington. The State Department announced his
death in a statement today.  “One of his friends and admirers once said that, ‘If
you’re not on the team and you’re in his way, God help you,’”
President  Barack Obama  said in a statement. “Like so many
presidents before me, I am grateful that Richard Holbrooke was
on my team, as are the American people.”  Under four Democratic presidents, from  Lyndon Johnson  to
Obama, Holbrooke worked on some of the most important diplomatic
issues of his era, starting with Vietnam in the Johnson White
House.  “Of this generation of Americans there is virtually no one
who has had as long, sustained and brilliant attention to the
nation’s interests abroad than has Richard Holbrooke,” said
 Frank Wisner , a former U.S. ambassador to India and friend of
Holbrooke. “Since the Vietnam War, there has been no issue of
national significance that he has not paid attention to or
worked on. His range is truly extraordinary.”  Intellect and Ego  Holbrooke was renowned for his vast intellect, an ego to
match, and an arsenal of weapons ranging from flattery and
patience to anger and, when necessary, shouting.  “I wouldn’t call it conversation,”  Leslie Gelb , president
emeritus of the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations and
a former U.S. assistant secretary of state, told the New Yorker
magazine for a 2009 profile of Holbrooke. “It’s this sort of
breathless monologue that you can only engage by interrupting.
Dick is an advocate. He almost always has a case to make.”  Holbrooke was probably best known for his work as Clinton’s
special mediator to end the war in Bosnia, which culminated in a
20-day negotiating session at the Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base in Dayton, Ohio. The resulting Dayton peace accord, as it
came to be known, divided Bosnia into a Muslim-Croat Federation
and a Serbian Republic.  In “ To End a War ,” his 1998 memoir, Holbrooke said the
U.S. and other nations were late to respond to atrocities by
Bosnia’s Serbs because of a misguided sense that no outsider
could resolve the hatred among Bosnians, Serbs and Croats.  ‘Not Foreordained’  “Yugoslavia’s tragedy was not foreordained,” he wrote.
“It was the product of bad, even criminal, political leaders
who encouraged ethnic confrontation for personal, political, and
financial gain.”  In 1998 Holbrooke accepted the challenge of mediating
another conflict in the Balkans, the war in Kosovo. Negotiating
with Yugoslav President  Slobodan Milosevic  -- the Serb
nationalist who died behind bars in 2006 while facing charges of
crimes against humanity -- Holbrooke helped win a cease-fire
agreement that averted a NATO attack on Belgrade, though only
temporarily.  When further peace talks failed five months later, NATO
launched 78 days of air strikes that ultimately pressured
Milosevic to withdraw troops from Kosovo.  Tension and occasional violence continued in the Balkans
after Holbrooke’s involvement. In 2008, Kosovo declared
independence from Serbia. Holbrooke and  Paddy Ashdown , who was
the European Union’s special representative in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, warned in an October 2008  column  that Bosnia was
again “in real danger of collapse.”  Wall Street Work  Holbrooke was a denizen of Wall Street and the nonprofit
community during Republican  George W. Bush ’s eight years as
president. He was vice chairman of Perseus LLC, a private-equity
firm in New York City, and chaired the Asia Society, the
American Academy in Berlin and the Global Business Coalition on
HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.  He served as a foreign-policy adviser to  Hillary Clinton 
from her U.S. Senate days through her campaign against Obama for
the 2008 Democratic nomination. The warming of relations that
led to Obama making Clinton his secretary of state also opened
the door for Holbrooke to join the administration, and Obama
named him special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan
days after becoming president in January 2009.  Clinton said in a statement that Holbrooke “helped shape
our history, manage our perilous present and secure our
future.” She called him “the consummate diplomat, able to
stare down dictators and stand up for America’s interests and
values even under the most difficult circumstances.”  Economic Development  Holbrooke spent the past two years visiting Afghanistan and
Pakistan and seeking support from allies to help promote
economic development.  For months, he dealt with speculation that his days as
envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan were numbered.  A June 2010 Rolling Stone magazine story that led to
General  Stanley McChrystal , the top U.S. commander in
Afghanistan, being relieved of duty described him at one point
making a show of being reluctant to open an e-mail from
Holbrooke; a McChrystal aide, not named by the magazine,
explained that the general considered Holbrooke a “wounded
animal.”  In a statement on Dec. 11, Obama called Holbrooke “a
towering figure in American foreign policy, a critical member of
my Afghanistan and Pakistan team and a tireless public servant
who has won the admiration of the American people and people
around the world.”  2014 and Beyond  Holbrooke said last month the Obama administration hoped to
end U.S. combat operations in Afghanistan in 2014. He emphasized
the U.S. wouldn’t then turn its back on the country, a mistake
he said the Soviet Union made in 1989.  Addressing reporters in Washington on Oct. 29, Holbrooke
talked up a newly signed trade agreement between Afghanistan and
Pakistan that, he said, constituted “a political breakthrough”
that was barely noticed by U.S. media.  “I cannot stress too highly that unless the two countries
close that historic gap and work closely together, this war will
go on, no matter how successful we are elsewhere, for the
simplest of reasons -- the Taliban will exploit differences
between the two countries and move from one country to the
other,” he said.  James Hoge , longtime editor of Foreign Affairs magazine,
said his friend Holbrooke “accepted the most difficult
assignments, often at great personal cost. He was an inspiring
leader to those who worked closely with him.”  Early Life  Richard Charles Albert Holbrooke was born April 24, 1941,
in New York City, the first of two sons of Dan Holbrooke, a
doctor, and Trudi Moos, the daughter of a leather exporter in
Germany, according to a 1998 New York Times profile. Both his
parents, as Jews, fled the Nazis in the 1930s.  Holbrooke graduated from Scarsdale High School, in the
suburbs of New York City, and from Brown University. He joined
the U.S. Foreign Service in 1962, learned Vietnamese and was
sent to Vietnam, where he represented the Agency for
International Development in the Mekong Delta and then worked as
staff assistant to U.S. Ambassadors Maxwell Taylor and Henry
Cabot Lodge.  Pentagon Papers  At the Johnson White House, he wrote one volume of what
became known as the  Pentagon Papers , the secret history of U.S.
involvement in Vietnam that later would be leaked to the New
York Times. In 1968 he was part of the U.S. delegation in Paris,
led by W. Averell Harriman, that opened negotiations with North
Vietnam.  His experience left a deep impression.  “I must conclude that our goals in Vietnam did not justify
the immense costs of the war,” Holbrooke said at conference
last September on the U.S. experience in Southeast Asia.  He said the U.S. “pursued a policy that would have denied
Vietnam to the enemy only as long as our ground troops remained,
but would not have left the Saigon government strong enough to
survive on its own. When we send our young men and women
overseas to fight for their country, we must be sure they’re
really fighting for our vital national security interests.”  As assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific
affairs under President  Jimmy Carter , Holbrooke was in charge of
relations with China when diplomatic ties were normalized in
1978. In a  2008 column , he recalled that he and others in the
Carter administration “managed to keep our intense negotiations
completely secret” for two years leading up to the accord.  Firm and Flexible  He described the Chinese negotiating style as “firm on
principle, flexible on specifics.”  President  Bill Clinton  named him U.S. ambassador to
Germany, then assistant secretary of state for Europe, then
ambassador to the United Nations.  At the UN, Holbrooke persuaded other countries to recognize
AIDS as a national-security issue, said  Nancy Soderberg , who
served as Holbrooke’s alternate. She described him as “a force
of nature, personally and intellectually.”  In between his government posts he worked as Peace Corps
director in Morocco, editor of Foreign Policy, vice chairman of
Credit Suisse First Boston and managing director of Lehman
Brothers. He collaborated on  Clark Clifford ’s  memoir , “Counsel
to the President.”  Holbrooke’s 1995 marriage to  Kati Marton , an author and
radio host, was his third. His first two marriages ended in
divorce and produced two sons, Anthony and David.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  