-- Rio to Invest $1 Billion in Aluminum Smelters in Quebec, British Columbia
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-12-14T19:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/rio-tinto-to-invest-in-canadian-aluminium-smelters.html
Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, will spend more than $1 billion
expanding two Canadian aluminum smelters to cut costs and
electricity usage.  The company will invest $758 million on the first stage of
a development at its Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean smelter in Quebec
and a further $300 million at the Kitimat smelter in British
Columbia, the company said today in a statement. Work at the
Quebec plant will be completed by 2013, Rio said.  A revival in demand, along with profit and share prices in
the metals industry, has helped Rio’s Chief Executive Officer
 Tom Albanese  reduce  debt  that ballooned after a $38.1 billion
purchase of Canadian aluminum company Alcan Inc. in 2007. In
August, Albanese said that Rio’s priority was to expand its
current operations rather than purchase businesses.  “Demand for aluminum is recovering,”  Jacynthe Cote , CEO
of the company’s Rio Tinto Alcan unit, said today in a telephone
interview. “Inventories are falling but they are still
relatively high. We continue to work very hard on reducing costs
and making our business more resilient.”  Spending at Kitimat will prepare for a planned $2.5 billion
modernization that will increase capacity at the plant by more
than 48 percent to about 420,000 metric tons a year by 2014, Rio
said. The company will make a final decision on whether to go
ahead with the Kitimat expansion in 2011, Cote said.  ‘Being Prudent’  “We are being prudent with respect to the addition of
capacity,” Cote said. “The projects we are going ahead with
first are the ones that allow us to modernize our facilities and
add capacity around the time when we think inventories will be
back at normal levels.”  Rio will probably wait until at least 2013 before deciding
on any subsequent expansion of the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean plant
because the company wants to see further signs that aluminum
demand is continuing to grow, Cote said.  “The test for this plant will start in 2013,” she said of
the Quebec smelter. “We want to see the first phase in
operation. It will take some time before we are ready to go to
the next phase.”  The price of aluminum for delivery in three months has
increased 5.4 percent this year on the London Metal Exchange,
while  inventories  monitored by the LME declined 7.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 