-- Miners Dig for Deals as M&A Moves to Emerging Markets
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-15T17:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/rio-xstrata-dig-for-deals-as-m-a-moves-to-emerging-markets.html
Mining takeovers, heading for the
second best year on record, are shifting to the emerging markets
of Africa and  Asia  as  BHP Billiton Ltd ., Rio Tinto Group and  Xstrata Plc  look to seal cheaper deals in less-explored areas.  As prices for most commodities rise, global mining
acquisitions have more than doubled in value this year to $132
billion, boosting advisory fees for banks such as  Credit Suisse
Group AG , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Buyers paid
an average 23 percent premium to the market price for those
deals, more than twice as high as margins in Latin America,
Africa and the Middle East.  BHP and Rio lead a list of possible buyers as the top eight
miners generate an estimated $132 billion in earnings next year,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Coal, copper and gold
are favored, with  Africa  a “hotspot,” said Mark Carlile, head
of resources investment banking in  Australia  at Credit Suisse,
this year’s top ranked adviser on emerging-market mining deals.  “Larger-cap miners are cash-rich and looking for new
revenue pipelines,” said James Holt, who helps manage about
A$40 billion ($40 billion) at BlackRock Investment Management
(Australia) Ltd., including BHP and Rio shares. Africa could be
a focus, he said.  BHP, based in  Melbourne , declined 0.7 percent to A$45.35 at
the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney. Rio fell 1 percent to A$87.02 in
Australia and dropped 0.2 percent to 4,430 pence in  London .  Rosatom Purchase  The mining industry’s capital flows to the Middle East and
Africa have more than doubled to $7.7 billion this year,
Bloomberg data show. In a deal announced today, Russia’s Rosatom
Corp. agreed to buy  Mantra Resources Ltd . for A$1.6 billion to
gain access to the Mkuju River uranium project in Tanzania.  Companies such as Nathaniel Rothschild’s  Vallar Plc ,
Xstrata and Aluminum Corp. of  China  are investing from Indonesia
to Mauritania to lock in supply.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc . and Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., with projects in the Democratic
Republic of Congo and Mongolia, are potential takeover targets,
according to UBS AG.  “If you aren’t looking further afield you are just
constraining yourself,” Credit Suisse’s Carlile said. Some
clients “have the capacity to take on more risk in far-flung
places, others don’t,” he said.  Riversdale Talks  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company, and
Mozambique coal developer Riversdale Mining Ltd. have held talks
on a A$3.5 billion offer, Sydney-based Riversdale said Dec. 6.  Xstrata, the fourth-biggest mining company by sales, is
paying A$514 million for Sphere Resources Ltd. to gain three
iron ore projects in West Africa.  “Almost by definition there are more resources that can be
found in less developed countries than developed countries”
because of less exploration, said billionaire Ken Fisher, who
oversees more than $38 billion at Woodside, California-based
Fisher Investments Inc.  Xstrata is paying 15 Australian cents a ton for Sphere’s
iron ore, based on the takeover price and stated ore resources.
That compares with the A$2.55 a ton BHP paid in its A$204
million purchase of Australian explorer United Minerals Corp. in
October last year.  Equinox Offer    Equinox Minerals Ltd ., based in Perth and with mines in
Zambia, agreed to pay two times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization when it offered A$1.2 billion last
month for Citadel Resource Group, developing Saudi Arabia’s
biggest copper deposit. That compares with the 22 times Quadra
Mining Ltd. paid this year for FNX Mining Co.’s copper and
nickel mines in  Canada .  Producers can pick up assets more cheaply in developing
nations based on lower reserve and resource cost multiples, Greg Fournier, head of Asia Pacific metals and mining investment
banking at Merrill Lynch, the number three adviser, said in an
interview.  Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse and Merrill are the top three
banks in global mining deals this year, advising on 42
transactions valued at $81 billion, according to Bloomberg data.    Morgan Stanley  led with 22 percent of deals, followed by
Credit Suisse with 20 percent, and Merrill, a  Bank of America
Corp . unit, with 19 percent. Credit Suisse ranked first for
deals in emerging markets in Asia Pacific, Latin America and the
Caribbean.  Rio, BHP  Rio is “actively reviewing opportunities” for small-to-
medium sized acquisitions, Chief Financial Officer Guy Elliot
said on Nov. 29. BHP Chairman Jac Nasser said last month the
board wanted the company to continue to look for acquisitions.  Mining companies are aware of the risks of doing business
in Africa, said  Paul Galloway , an analyst at Bernstein in
London. Rio has been in a dispute with Guinea since 2008 when
the government ordered the London-based company to hand over
part of the Simandou iron ore deposit.  First Quantum Minerals
Ltd . is trying to recover mining rights in the Democratic
Republic of Congo after the government withdrew its permit.  “If commodity prices are low and the values of these
assets are low, there is not too much of an incentive to go off
to deepest, darkest Africa,” said  Gavin Wendt , a senior
resources analyst at Mine Life Pty in Sydney. “You need a
higher return on your investment to offset the potential risks
in investing in a place like Africa.”  Mergers and acquisitions are a faster, cheaper route to
production than constructing projects from scratch, Standard
Chartered Plc said in an August report. The cost of building a
copper mine has more than doubled in the past five years,
according to the report.  “Is it cheaper to put in new stuff today or buy stuff?
Where is there less risk?” said Fisher, who is “overweight”
in emerging markets and mining stocks. “My view is there is
less risk in buying.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 