-- Romania May Get $486 Million World Bank Payment in January, Rantrua Says
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-12-14T11:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/romania-may-get-486-million-world-bank-payment-in-january-rantrua-says.html
Romania may receive a 360 million-
euro ($485 million) loan payment from the World Bank in January
if a high court upholds changes to the pension system that
include raising the retirement age, the bank’s country manager
said.  The payment, already delayed three times, marks the second
disbursement from the 1 billion euros the  World Bank  contributed
to a larger bailout awarded to the Balkan country in 2009 to
help shore up the budget gap. The final 340 million euros will
be paid depending on progress on a wage bill, said the World
Bank’s Francois Rantrua in an interview in Bucharest.  Romania, the second-poorest European Union member, is
missing out on Europe’s recovery after international lenders
pressed the government to raise taxes, pass cuts to pension
spending and reduce state wages to stem a burgeoning deficit,
sparking protests. The Parliament’s Dec. 7 approval to raise the
retirement age was challenged by the opposition in the
Constitutional Court. A ruling may come this week.  “Considering the political situation, which isn’t easy, I
am favorably encouraged by what we have managed to do in
Romania,” Rantrua said. “The prospects for growth are good. Of
course they are not the best in the region and you cannot expect
to enter a crisis with a bad structural situation and exit it
first, but there are signs of exiting the crisis for Romania.”  The  International Monetary Fund , which led a 20 billion-
euro bailout package that includes the World Bank contribution,
forecast gross domestic product for Romania to shrink 1.94
percent this year before expanding 1.53 percent in 2011.  Government Measures  The government was forced to raise the value-added tax rate
by 5 percentage points and cut public wages by 25 percent to
squeeze the budget gap to 6.8 percent of GDP this year and 4.4
percent in 2011 to qualify for the terms of the loan. The
retirement age was raised to 63 for women and 65 for men.  Before a decision on the final payment is made, the World
Bank is reviewing the final six budgets of 12 ministries, said
Rantrua. Once that process is complete, he said, the Washington-
based bank will have “an interesting proposal for the
government.” He didn’t elaborate.  “It might be smart, if the government asks us, to have
fresh structural measures for the third tranche,” he said.  Prime Minister  Emil Boc ’s cabinet will seek fast-track
approval of a simplified wage law in Parliament this week. The
law aims to rearrange the salaries in the public sector based on
professional performance and experience and help the government
contain the budget deficit over the next three years.  ‘Functional Reviews’  The World Bank is also doing “functional reviews” on 12
industries in Romania, including transport and agriculture, and
will present a detailed analysis with recommendations for
improving performances during the next review mission from the
IMF, the European Commission and the other lenders, according to
Rantrua.  The next review of the country’s progress under the bailout
will probably start on Jan. 20, when Romania plans to open talks
to extend the current bailout with a precautionary loan, Boc
said on Dec. 12.  “There are sectors that need more reform than others, that
are more difficult than others, sectors where you have a lot of
people, a lot of civil servants, where your money is not
sufficient and where you are in competition with others,”
Rantrua said. “We are going to discuss the key actions that are
needed, and it’s the prerogative of the government to announce
these reforms.”  Bulgarian Example  The World Bank is also working with the  Finance Ministry  on
a project to improve tax collection after a model already
implemented in Bulgaria, the EU’s poorest member, that boosted
the neighboring country’s budget revenue by 5 percent of GDP.  In Bulgaria “the program lasted for six years and all the
parties committed,” Catalin Pauna, the World Bank’s chief
economist in Romania, said during the same interview. “I think
the results will be tremendous. There is no need to raise taxes.
With the same level of taxes I am convinced that we can raise
more” revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  