-- Sadistic Headmistress in Drag Torments Lively Matilda: Theater Premieres
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2010-12-14T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/sadistic-headmistress-in-drag-torments-lively-matilda-premieres-in-london.html
The lively musical “Matilda,”
based on a novel by  Roald Dahl , is playing at the  Royal
Shakespeare Company  in Stratford-Upon-Avon. Artistic director
 Michael Boyd  has said he hopes it’ll transfer to London. With a
bit of tweaking, it’s a cert.  “Matilda” tells the story of an imaginative and clever
little girl (I saw the excellent Kerry Ingram in the title role,
one of three Matildas) who outwits all the horrible adults
around her. We’re talking “horrible” with a capital H.  Matilda’s hilariously vulgar parents despise her self-
possession and bookishness. To get her out of the way, they send
her to Crunchem Hall school.  There the sadistic headmistress, Agatha Trunchbull, is a
former Olympic hammer-thrower who likes to pick up girls by
their pigtails, spin them around, and pitch them into the
auditorium. She makes your average villain look like a fluffy
bunny-wunny, and in Bertie Carvel’s drag performance, her
wonderfully evil ways are a joy.  Tough Matilda  Less joyful is the episodic nature of the storytelling. A
few of the episodes could profitably be cut, and a stronger
narrative through-line established. It’s something of a flaw,
too, that the heroine doesn’t go on much of a dramatic journey:
She’s so self-possessed right from the start that her triumph is
never in doubt.  It’s still a lot of fun. The energy never lets up in
Matthew Warchus’s slick and amusing production, and the ensemble
of children is handled with a glorious lack of sentiment. If Tim
Minchin’s songs and lyrics are not memory-burrowers, they
provide a good deal of pleasure and amusement. Rating: ***.  ‘Love Story’  Good songs aren’t everything. Howard Goodall’s musical
version of  Erich Segal ’s “Love Story” at the  Duchess Theatre 
has a few, and they don’t help.  It’s the fault of the plot, which (never having read the
book or seen the movie) I didn’t know. Boy meets girl in the
1960s. Love blossoms. Girl dies.  Conflict? Tension? Drama? Nope.  Schmaltzy deathbed speeches? By the bucket.  If that doesn’t worry you, then you might like the 100-
minute show. The music’s pretty, the staging efficient and the
performances from Emma Williams and Michael Xavier as the oh-so-
in-love couple charming. Rating: **.  ‘Tannhauser’  The Royal Opera House’s new “Tannhauser” by  Tim Albery 
starts promisingly.  The Venusberg, where Tannhauser is living a life of whoopee
with the goddess of love, is a startling replica of Covent
Garden’s own proscenium arch. It seems that the hero’s life of
endless leg-over is just an illusion, a dream.  When he decides to leave Venus and return to the world, he
finds it a war-ravaged place.  In Act 2, the proscenium arch is rubble. Tannhauser’s
former friends and colleagues carry guns, and dress in modern
Balkan-style combat gear. The women cover their heads.  They don’t like it when Tannhauser extols the pleasures of
the Venusberg, and send him into a big black box with a withered
symbolic tree in the middle. This is where the virginal
Elisabeth prays for his soul and redeems him by her death, as
Wagnerian heroines are wont to do.  Hey, what happened to the theater metaphor?  Intellectually rigorous, it’s not. Neither is it a pacy
affair. Sometimes the poor chorus members stand still for eons
at a stretch.  Big Tenor  Still, there’s a memorable atmosphere of anguish and gloom,
and some truly great singing.  Semyon Bychkov ’s conducting is monumental. His tempi are
fast, yet he never sacrifices the orchestral inner glow
necessary.  Supersized heldentenor Johan Botha (Tannhauser) likes to
stand still a lot while singing with a marvelously heroic voice.
Michaela Schuster (Venus) and Eva-Maria Westbroek (Elisabeth)
are both great as the vamp and virgin, respectively, in the
hero’s life. Baritone Christian Gerhaher (as Elisabeth’s
luckless admirer Wolfram) could melt a cast-iron chastity belt
with the luxurious beauty of his sound.  Production OK, singing terrific. (Through  Jan. 2 , 2011).
Rating: ***.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
 Warwick Thompson , in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 