-- Ex-Sadia CFO Barred From Management on Trading Loss
-- B y   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-12-15T15:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/sadia-executives-fined-cfo-barred-from-management-after-exchange-losses.html
Sadia SA’s former Chief Financial
Officer Adriano Ferreira was barred from managing public
companies for three years and board members were fined 2.6
million reais ($1.5 million) after  securities regulators  probed
the Brazilian food company’s 2008 derivatives losses.    Brazil ’s securities regulator, known as CVM, said yesterday
that Ferreira exceeded the company’s limits for investments in
derivatives, while the former board members were fined for not
having a system in place to avoid the irregularities. Sadia
fired Ferreira in September 2008 and less than two weeks later
accepted the resignations of Chairman Walter Fontana Filho and
Vice Chairman Eduardo Fontana d’Avila.    BRF - Brasil Foods SA , formerly known as Perdigao SA,
bought Sadia last year to form the world’s largest poultry
exporter after the wrong-way currency bets led to more than 3
billion reais of losses in 2008. Brazil’s real slumped 23
percent that year amid a global credit crunch, derailing wagers
that the currency would continue a five-year rally. The slump
led pulp maker Aracruz Celulose SA to post derivatives losses of
more than $2 billion.  “The accusations are groundless,” Ferreira’s lawyer,
Carmen Sylvia Parkinson, said during yesterday’s hearing. The
credit crisis in 2008 was unexpected and influenced the losses,
she said. The former Sadia executives can appeal CVM’s decision.  Derivatives are contracts whose values are tied to assets
including stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies, or events
such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  Other Directors  Fontana Filho and three other former board members were
fined 400,000 reais each, while Fontana d’Avila and four former
directors were fined 200,000 reais each, according to CVM.  Former board members Cassio Casseb, Alcides Tapias, Marcelo Fontana, and Roberto Faldini were found not guilty of the 2008
irregularities, according to CVM.  Former executives of Aracruz, which Votorantim Celulose e
Papel SA took over last year to form the world’s biggest pulp
maker, are also being probed for currency derivatives trading in
2008. In September, CVM rejected proposals by former Aracruz CEO
Carlos Aguiar and former CFO Isac Zagury to pay 400,000 reais
each to settle the investigation.  CVM suspended a trial of the former Aracruz executives
initially scheduled for Dec. 8 after their lawyers asked to
extend the investigation and hasn’t set a new date.  Aguiar is now the CEO of  Fibria Celulose SA , the company
formed by Votorantim’s takeover of Aracruz. Zagury, who attended
the Sadia hearing yesterday, resigned on Sept. 26, 2008, after
Aracruz said it was assessing losses from currency derivatives,
prompting the company’s Sao Paulo-traded shares to fall the most
in a decade.    Insider Trading   Luiz Gonzaga Murat, who was Sadia’s CFO for 12 years until
resigning in 2006, and ex-director Romano Ancelmo Fontana Filho
were charged with insider trading by Brazilian prosecutors last
year for purchases of Perdigao SA shares before Sadia made a bid
to buy the rival in 2006. The insider-trading charge was the
first in Brazil after a law made it illegal in 2001.  Murat in February 2007 agreed to pay a $364,432 fine to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to settle similar
charges, without admitting or denying the allegation. In June
2007, Fontana Filho agreed to pay the SEC $316,700 to settle the
claims. He also didn’t admit or deny the allegations.    Brasil Foods , based in  Sao Paulo , advanced 2.9 percent to
26.64 reais at 10:21 a.m. New York time. Before today, the
company climbed 14 percent this year, compared with a 0.2
percent advance in Brazil’s Bovespa stock index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Chiarini in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net 
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at   lzelenko@bloomberg.net  