-- Sanofi Names Zerhouni Research Head, Replacing Cluzel
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-12-14T17:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/sanofi-names-zerhouni-head-of-global-research-development.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA  named  Elias Zerhouni  head of research and development, replacing  Marc Cluzel , a further step in Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher ’s reorganization of France’s biggest drugmaker.  Zerhouni, 59, a former head of the  U.S. National Institutes
of Health , will start his new job on Jan. 1, Paris-based Sanofi
said in an e-mailed  statement  today. Zerhouni was last year
appointed scientific adviser to Viehbacher. In his new role, he
will report directly to the CEO and also oversee Sanofi’s
vaccines division.  “I have had the privilege of working with Elias for a long
time,” Viehbacher said in today’s statement. “Through his vast
experience and visionary approach, he has provided excellent
advice and insight and has been central in implementing what is
now one of the most promising R&D models in health care.”  The 50-year-old CEO has been criticizing Sanofi’s research
and development operations since taking over in December 2008.
He shut down plants and eliminated some experimental medicines
to focus on the most promising projects. He also started looking
outside Sanofi’s own labs for products to sustain sales growth
as older drugs such as the blood-thinner Plavix and the cancer
treatment Eloxatin face generic competition.  Sanofi last year paid $500 million for BiPar Sciences Inc.,
a U.S. developer of a treatment for breast and lung tumors, and
is trying to take over Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Genzyme
Corp ., the world’s largest maker of medicines for rare genetic
disorders.  Shares Rise  Sanofi shares rose 63 euro cents, or 1.3 percent, to 49.63
euros in Paris trading today, giving Sanofi a market value of 65
billion euros ($87 billion).  Zerhouni is a professor of radiology and biomedical
engineering at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore, where he
spent his academic career. He is a senior fellow of the  Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation  and on the board of trustees of the
 Mayo Clinic  in Rochester, Minnesota, and the  Lasker Foundation 
in New York. He received the Legion of Honor medal from the
French National Order in 2008.  “I have been impressed by the spirit and dedication of all
the colleagues I have worked with within the company” over the
past 18 months, Zerhouni said in today’s statement. “I am
honored to be given the opportunity to join them in making sure
that, here at Sanofi-Aventis, we discover and develop the most
important therapies to alleviate the pain and suffering of
patients around the world.”  ‘Work in Progress’  Viehbacher said Sept. 30 that even after downsizing
operations and reshuffling the jobs of most people, Sanofi’s
research and development was “still a work in progress” and
that it would probably “take a number of years to get it
right.”  Cluzel, 55, remained at the helm of research and
development after Viehbacher’s arrival and worked to implement
the overhaul.  Sanofi last week said that  Wayne Pisano , head of the
company’s vaccine division, will retire and be replaced by
 Olivier Charmeil , currently the head of operations in Asia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  