-- Saudi Aramco Selects General Electric for $500 Million Oilfield Contracts
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-12-14T15:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/saudi-aramco-selects-ge-for-500-million-equipment-and-services-contracts.html
General Electric Co.  won about $500
million in equipment and services contracts from state-run Saudi
Aramco in a project that will boost oil-production capacity at
Saudi Arabia’s Shaybah crude deposit, the U.S. company said.  Expanding oil and gas treatment and recovery facilities at
the site will boost capacity at Shaybah to 1 million barrels of
oil a day, GE said in a statement today.  Aramco, the world’s largest crude exporter, completed a
project last year to expand potential output at the field by 50
percent to the current level of 750,000 barrels a day. The
company, seeking to boost production of natural gas, is also
building processing units for that fuel at the field.  Saudi Arabia, holder of the world’s largest oil reserves,
can produce some 12.5 million barrels of oil a day and has been
pumping only about two-thirds of that amount since global demand
dried up in the wake of the financial crisis. Aramco aims to
maintain spare production capacity that can be called on to meet
surges in oil demand and damp price swings. Aramco didn’t have
any immediate comment on the award.  GE said the contracts are to supply equipment and services,
including 11 gas turbines and 44 compressors. The generators
will add 729 megawatts of electricity capacity, it said.  Equipment-Maker Acquisitions  Another plant at the site will process 2.4 billion cubic
feet of gas a day into 264,000 barrels of natural gas liquids
that can be used in petrochemical facilities, GE said.  Aramco is expanding petrochemicals production and oil
refining capacity to help diversify the nation’s economy away
from crude exports and create jobs in the kingdom, Chief
Executive Officer  Khalid Al-Falih  said last week.  GE agreed yesterday to buy Wellstream Holdings Plc,
bringing its acquisitions of natural gas- and oil-exploration
equipment makers to $4.3 billion in the past two months. Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is tapping emerging-market
growth and energy demand while adding to the GE Oil & Gas unit,
which generated $7.7 billion in sales last year.  GE Oil & Gas is part of the GE Energy Infrastructure
segment, a business Immelt has said he wants to expand. Energy
Infrastructure provided $37 billion of Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE’s $157 billion in 2009 sales.  The company will have more than 110 gas turbines and almost
100 compressors in Saudi Arabia with the deal and the equipment
will be delivered in the first half of 2012, GE said. Saudi
Arabia is now GE Energy’s single biggest customer. GE Energy
equipment generates one-third of the world’s electricity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 