-- Reid Says Senate Has Votes to Ratify Russia Treaty
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-12-14T22:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/senate-will-have-67-votes-needed-to-approve-russia-arms-treaty-reid-says.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said the chamber will have the 67 votes needed to ratify a new
U.S.-Russia nuclear arms treaty and that he intends to complete
work on the agreement before lawmakers leave Washington.  Ratification of the treaty, which has drawn opposition from
some Republicans, would give President  Barack Obama  a victory on
one of his top foreign policy priorities. Obama and Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  signed the  accord  in April, agreeing
to cut each nation’s deployed nuclear warheads by about one-
third to a maximum of 1,550.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said today he aims to begin debate
on the resolution of ratification tonight or tomorrow.  Senate Foreign Relations Committee  Chairman  John Kerry , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said he also believed that scheduling a
vote on the jammed calendar of the lame-duck session was the
only obstacle to ratification.  “I share the confidence that if we can get the treaty on
the floor, we can ratify it,” Kerry told reporters on Capitol
Hill today.  A spokesman for Indiana Senator  Richard Lugar , who is the
top Republican on the committee and who supports the treaty,
said last week that enough members of his party have pledged to
back ratification to assure the needed two-thirds majority. The
spokesman,  Mark Helmke , declined to name the Republicans in
support before they declared their positions.  Republican Supporters  Maine’s two Republican senators,  Susan Collins  and  Olympia Snowe , said in separate statements on Dec. 10 that they support
ratification. Democrats control 58 votes in the 100-seat Senate.  Russian lawmakers are awaiting U.S. Senate action before
proceeding to their own ratification vote.  The Obama administration ramped up its campaign for
ratification in response to Republican opposition, led by
Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , that threatened to prevent a vote this
year.  Kyl said today that Reid “perhaps predicted something
prematurely” and may be trying to do too much during the post-
election session of Congress.  “At some point the leader will have to say no,” Kyl told
reporters at the Capitol. Reid and Democratic leaders will be
playing “Russian roulette” by bringing the issue to a vote.  “I would discourage them from doing so,” Kyl said.  Missile Defense  Administration officials have disputed criticism from Kyl
that the agreement would allow Russia to limit U.S. options for
deploying missile defenses against regimes such as Iran and that
Obama’s increase in spending to secure the remaining U.S.
nuclear arsenal wasn’t sufficient.  The president won backing from a parade of former military
leaders as well as former Democratic and Republican secretaries
of defense and state and national security advisers who have
called Republican senators in efforts to sway them.  Vice President  Joe Biden , the administration’s point person
for getting the treaty ratified, also has been calling and
meeting with senators to solidify support, White House press
secretary  Robert Gibbs  said today.  The administration expects to get more than the minimum 67
votes needed for ratification, Gibbs said.  Gibbs dismissed concerns voiced by some Republicans that
the nonbinding language in the treaty preamble would thwart U.S.
development of a missile defense system. He cited the agreement
among North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries in Lisbon
last month to develop a system that would cover Europe and the
U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Viola Gienger  at  vgienger@bloomberg.net  or;
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  