-- Senate Democrats Push $1.2 Trillion `Omnibus' Bill Opposed by Republicans
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-14T22:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/senate-democrats-push-1-2-trillion-omnibus-bill-opposed-by-republicans.html
A 1,924- page  “omnibus” bill to
fund the government is headed for a Senate vote that will put
lawmakers from both parties on the spot over the practice of
earmarking money for projects.  The $1.2 trillion measure, unveiled by Democrats today,
includes thousands of earmarks and comes about a month after
Republicans adopted a non-binding moratorium on pushing for such
projects. The Senate’s Democratic majority aims to overcome that
objection with the help of Republicans such as Senators  George Voinovich  of Ohio and  Bob Bennett  of Utah who scoff at
complaints over the projects.  “I have a disagreement with my colleagues on earmarks”
Voinovich told reporters today. “We’re fooling the American
people when we tell them the problem is earmarks.”  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, urged his
colleagues to deny Democrats the votes needed to advance the
bill that finances government agencies and programs for the
fiscal year that ends Sept. 30, 2011.  “All of us know that it’s really bad for our party to pass
an omnibus with earmarks,” he told reporters.  Fellow South Carolina Republican Senator Lindsey Graham 
called the impending vote a “defining moment” for his party,
one that will be closely watched by some voters. “This
represents the old way of doing business,” he said.  Inouye Confident  Democrats, who control the Senate with 58 votes, would need
60 votes to overcome procedural hurdles. Senate Appropriations
Committee Chairman  Daniel Inouye , a Hawaii Democrat, said today
he is confident the measure would be passed before Congress
adjourns for the year.  The bill’s earmarks would cost about $8 billion, according
to Rob Blumenthal, an Inouye spokesman.  A stopgap measure funding the government expires Dec. 18.
If Senate Democrats fall short of the 60 votes needed to proceed
on their bill, they will likely take up a House-passed version
of the measure that omits earmarks.  Republicans in both chambers have been pushing for a short-
term funding extension that would extend into early next year.
With Republicans taking the majority in the next House session
and the party gaining seats in the Senate, that would make it
easier for them to prevail with promised spending cuts.  The omnibus measure would cap a year that included a
breakdown in the congressional budgeting process, as Democrats
were unable to pass a tax-and-spending blueprint or any of the
12 annual appropriations bills to fund federal agencies for the
fiscal year that began Oct. 1.  War Funding  The legislation unveiled today includes about $20 billion
more than the House plan, according to a summary provided by the
Senate Appropriations Committee. It would provide $1.108
trillion in annual appropriations, along with about $160 billion
to fund the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Like the House bill, it includes provisions opposed by the
White House that would bar the administration from bringing
 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed  or other terrorist suspects held at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba to the United States for trial.  A list provided by Democrats of earmarks included in the
legislation runs more than 300 pages.  Bennett, who worked in
the Department of Transportation during President  Richard Nixon ’s administration, said that without the earmarks, White
House officials would spend money on their preferred projects or
lawmakers would prod agency heads to fund projects.  “I was on the receiving end of those phone calls,” said
Bennett. He said the earmarking process is “at least
transparent, and it’s an improvement over the way things used to
be and the way things will go back to being if they succeed in
eliminating the earmark process.”  Bennett was denied re-nomination to fourth term earlier
this year by Utah Republicans; Voinovich decided to retire after
two terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  