-- Siemens $1.14 Billion Sale of Computer Unit Lets Loescher Plug Profit Hole
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2010-12-15T08:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/siemens-sells-computer-service-unit-to-atos-for-1-14-billion-to-stem-loss.html
Siemens AG ’s plan to sell its
computer-services unit to  Atos Origin SA  will let Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  end years of losses from a
business that proved unfixable for his two predecessors.  The Munich-based engineering company said yesterday that it
will divest Siemens SIS in an 850 million-euro ($1.14 billion)
transaction. It will receive a 15 percent stake in the combined
entity, as well as cash and a convertible bond. Siemens will
contribute about 250 million euros to help the integration.  “SIS has been an underperformer in the Siemens portfolio
for as long as it has been a division,” said  James Stettler , an
analyst at UniCredit in London. He recommends clients “hold”
Siemens shares and sees them trading at 85 euros in a year. “We
view this deal as another positive step in focusing the group on
its core activities, which should further enhance the earnings
quality of the group.”  While  Siemens  said the deal will have a “considerable
negative earnings impact” next year, the sale helps Loescher
eliminate a major source of losses in recent years as both
demand and the workforce shrank. SIS lost 463 million euros in
the quarter ended Sept. 30, after  Siemens  announced 4,200 job
cuts earlier this year. An additional 1,750 jobs reductions will
be part of the Atos deal, Siemens said yesterday.  Siemens climbed 1.5 percent in Frankfurt trading to 92.53
euros as of 9:44 a.m. local time. Atos added 9.6 percent to
37.06 euros in Paris.  Leapfrogging Rivals  Both  Heinrich von Pierer  and  Klaus Kleinfeld , Loescher’s
predecessors, struggled to cut losses at the division, scaling
back the workforce and revamping the division’s structure and
management.  Christoph Kollatz , a Siemens veteran of 20 years,
left as head of SIS a year ago, weeks after Chief Financial
Officer  Joe Kaeser  said an initial public offering for the
information-technology unit is a possibility.  Siemens SIS competes with computer-services companies such
as Cap Gemini SA of France and Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Systems
unit, as well as  Accenture Plc.  Atos will leapfrog Cap Gemini to
become the largest European IT service provider.  The opportunity to become the regional market leader was a
key attraction of the Siemens deal, Atos executive  Gilles Grapinet  said by phone. While the merger will, “by definition,
involve cultural challenges,” Siemens’ participation as a major
Atos shareholder should help ease integration, he said.  Siemens SIS has more than 32,000 employees. Revenue in the
most recent fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, fell 11 percent
to 4.2 billion euros. Annual sales for the newly created
business would amount to about 8.7 billion euros, according to
the statement. It will have 78,500 employees worldwide.  Previous Shakeups  By the time the transaction is set to close, SIS will
probably have 28,000 employees, compared with the 35,000
employed at the division in March 2010, according to  Siemens .  The German company has removed underperforming businesses
from its balance sheet in the past. That includes its telephone
network division, which Siemens shifted into a joint venture
with Nokia Oyj, and its mobile-phone business, which Siemens
handed to an Asian manufacturer -- shortly before the unit went
bankrupt. The company has instead sharpened its focus on
industrial goods such as turbines, trains and medical equipment.  Loescher, who took over in 2007, said last month that
Siemens has “closed the chapter” on a dozen years of
restructuring and will reward shareholders’ stamina with a
record dividend. The executive, who was paid almost 9 million
euros in salary and bonuses last year, is the first person
leading  Siemens  in its history to come from outside the company.  Atos Stake  The Austrian-born Loescher is moving on from the years of
overhauls that saw Siemens pull out of the telecommunications on
which the company was founded in 1847, cut tens of  thousands of
jobs , and bolster its offering of environmental technologies.  Siemens said it will get about 12.5 million Atos Origin
 shares  valued at 414 million euros, giving it a 15 percent stake
in the combined company, as well as a five-year convertible bond
of 250 million euros and about 186 million euros in cash.  Siemens will also have its own information technology
serviced by the new company for seven years, a deal valued at
5.5 billion euros, according to Siemens.  “The fast execution of the sale to Atos is positive,”
said Ingo-Martin Schachel, an equity analyst at Commerzbank in
Frankfurt. “The price, however, is just in line with our
expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benedikt Kammel  in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  