-- Singapore Exchange Bid for ASX Cleared by Australian Competition Regulator
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-15T09:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/singapore-exchange-bid-for-asx-cleared-by-australian-competition-regulator.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. ’s A$7.8
billion ($7.8 billion) bid for  ASX Ltd. , operator of Australia’s
main bourse, was cleared by the nation’s competition regulator.  The deal wouldn’t adversely affect competition in exchange
services, the  Australian Competition and Consumer Commission 
said in a statement today. A key focus of its investigation was
whether the acquisition of ASX would deter entry into the
Australian market of rival Chi-X Australia Pty and other
competitors due to SGX’s links with Chi-X Global Inc., it said.  The ACCC said last month that it intended to undertake a
review aimed at scrutinizing the transaction’s impact on “the
development of competition between exchanges and associated
products or services.” The bid still needs clearance from the
Foreign Investment Review Board, Reserve Bank of Australia and
Australian Securities and Investments Commission, while some
lawmakers have raised national-interest concerns.  “The ACCC approval is clearly a necessary ingredient,”
said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350 million at White
Funds Management Pty in Sydney. “Nevertheless, the outcome
appears to have been expected, with investors more concerned
about the other hurdles.”  ASX, SGX ‘Pleased’  Singapore Exchange offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 for A$8.4
billion in a cash-and-shares offer that would create the world’s
fifth-largest listed exchange company. Based on  SGX ’s closing
share price yesterday, the value of the deal was A$7.8 billion.
ASX  shares  initially rose as much as 1.4 percent in Sydney today
before closing unchanged at A$38.50. Singapore Exchange closed
unchanged at S$8.41 after rising as much as 1.6 percent.  The ACCC announcement shows “there are no concerns about a
lessening of competition,” ASX spokesman  Matthew Gibbs  said in
an e-mail. Both Gibbs and Singapore Exchange spokeswoman
 Magdalyn Liew  said they were “pleased” with the decision.  “ASX and SGX continue to focus on the regulatory process
that is well under way,” Liew said in an e-mail. “We are
working closely with the regulatory bodies in providing further
information that facilitates the process.”  ASX Chief Executive  Robert Elstone  told reporters when
announcing the takeover proposal that it was in the interests of
both countries, and that the companies were confident they would
win regulators’ approval.  More Hurdles  Besides the ACCC clearance, the offer has to be approved by
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  under Australia’s foreign investment rules
and amendments to the Corporations Act must pass through the
nation’s parliament, led by the minority Labor government of
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard . The deal will also have to be
approved by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  Australian lawmakers including two Greens party members,
opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  and two independents
have said they are against Singapore Exchange’s bid, claiming
it’s unlikely to be in the best interests of Australians.  “Our hope is that my fellow Members of Parliament will
reject this fanatical marketism that is taking away our
sovereign right to self determination,” independent rural MP
 Bob Katter  said in an e-mailed statement today. “Anyone who
allows this sale to go through is selling out Australia and
selling off our nation’s future.”  Greens party leader Senator  Bob Brown  said today in an e-
mailed statement he would refuse to support the takeover unless
benefits can be clearly proven. “The ACCC’s narrow mandate is
no substitute for a responsible government decision,” he said.  Investors were cautious. “Clearance from the ACCC is a
move in the right direction, but realistically there is a lot
more water to pass under the bridge before investors will get
too excited,” said Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion
in Melbourne at Pengana Capital Ltd. “This is one of many
hurdles that needs to be cleared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at   nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 