-- SNB May Keep Benchmark Near Zero in a Bid to Keep Lid on Gains in Franc
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2010-12-15T09:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/snb-may-keep-benchmark-near-zero-in-a-bid-to-keep-lid-on-gains-in-franc.html
The Swiss central bank may keep
borrowing costs near zero tomorrow in a bid to keep a lid on the
franc after Europe’s debt crisis pushed the currency to a
record, threatening the country’s recovery.  The Swiss National Bank, led by  Philipp Hildebrand , will
leave the  three-month Libor target  rate at 0.25 percent,
according to all 19 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Zurich-based central bank will announce its decision at 9:30
a.m. tomorrow followed by a press conference 30 minutes later.  The Swiss franc has appreciated 16 percent against the euro
this year as investors became more concerned about the ability
of European governments to contain the fiscal crisis and prevent
a breakup of the 16-member region. While the SNB in June stopped
intervening in currency markets, a stronger franc may undermine
the country’s  export-led recovery  and increase deflation risks.  “The Swiss central bank is definitely mindful of the euro-
area crisis,” said  David Kohl , deputy chief economist at Julius
Baer Group in Frankfurt, who expects the SNB to keep borrowing
costs on hold until June 2011. “They will refrain from anything
which could push up the franc. It will be a quiet meeting.”  The Swiss currency climbed to a record 1.2759 against the
euro today and traded at 1.2778 at 10:25 a.m. in Zurich.  ‘Resilient’ Exports  The Swiss government yesterday  forecast  economic growth to
weaken to 1.5 percent next year from an estimated 2.7 percent in
2010, citing Europe’s debt crisis and a strengthening franc
among the risks. The SNB, which in September projected the
economy to grow about 2.5 percent this year, tomorrow will also
release its 2011 economic estimate.  While the SNB in June phased out its 15-month policy of
countering franc gains through purchases of foreign currencies,
Hildebrand said on Nov. 23 that the central bank is ready “to
take exceptionally far-reaching measures” if needed.  With governments from Ireland to Spain struggling to reduce
their budget deficits, the euro has plunged 5.2 percent against
the franc this year. That’s making Swiss exports from  Swatch
Group AG  watches to  ABB Ltd.  turbochargers less competitive in
the region buying two thirds of all goods.  “Swiss exports have so far been surprisingly resilient to
the strength of the currency,” said  Eoin O’Callaghan , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in London. Still, “it’s too early
to sound the all-clear. The sector remains vulnerable to
additional appreciation.”  ‘Dominant Issue’  Switzerland’s recovery is already cooling. Growth  weakened 
in the third quarter, leading  economic indicators  fell to the
lowest level in seven months in November, and investor
confidence declined.  Consumer prices  rose 0.2 percent in
November from a year earlier partly as a stronger franc lowered
costs of imports such as heating oil.  The SNB in September forecast inflation to average 0.7
percent this year and 0.3 percent in 2011 before accelerating to
1.2 percent in 2012. The central bank, which aims to keep annual
gains in consumer prices below 2 percent, has said that
inflation may “temporarily” turn negative in early 2011.  Dirk Schumacher , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in Frankfurt, says that while he considers the SNB’s inflation
forecasts too low, he doesn’t expect the central bank to raise
projections as policy makers keep the benchmark rate on hold.  “The euro-region crisis remains the dominant issue at the
moment,” Schumacher said. “The SNB is well aware that the
consequences for the Swiss economy, through the exchange rate,
could be quite dramatic if the situation got a lot worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  