-- Soda Tax Would Have Little Impact on Weight Loss, Study Finds
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-12-14T06:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/soda-tax-would-boost-government-revenue-not-solve-fat-problem-study-says.html
A tax on sugar-sweetened drinks in
the U.S. would generate billions of dollars in federal revenue
and have little impact on weight loss, a  study  found.  Imposing a 40 percent tax on soda and non-carbonated drinks
would raise $2.5 billion a year and translate to an average
annual weight loss of 1.3 pounds per person, researchers wrote
in the  Archives of Internal Medicine  yesterday. The impact would
be greatest among middle-income earners and make less difference
to the richest and poorest, the study found.  Politicians including New York Governor  David Paterson  have
proposed cutting food aid or taxing sugared beverages to fight
obesity and reduce U.S. budget deficits. While the study showed
the effect of a so-called soda tax on weight loss is small, it
should still be considered because the money raised could also
be used for anti-obesity measures, said  Eric Finkelstein , an
associate professor of health services who led the study at the
Duke-National University of Singapore Graduate Medical School.  “Any strategy that shows even modest weight loss should be
considered,” Finkelstein said in a  statement .  Almost  27 percent  of American adults and  17 percent  of
children and adolescents are obese, according to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. Consuming a single soft drink a
day, diet or regular, may contribute to an array of obesity-
linked health conditions that can hurt the heart and lead to
diabetes, according to a 2007 study in the American Heart
Association’s medical journal Circulation.  Computer Model  Finkelstein and colleagues used data from a 2006 survey of
households that tracked their store-bought food and beverage
purchases for a year, then developed a computer model to
simulate the effect of taxes on weight loss.  Taxing all sugar-sweetened beverages would be more
effective than only taxing soda drinks because it makes it more
difficult for consumers to substitute similar products to avoid
the price increase, the researchers wrote.  The tax would have the least effect on both the richest 25
percent of U.S. households because they could afford it, and on
the poorest 25 percent because they would get around the tax by
buying generic versions, purchasing in bulk or waiting for a
discount sale, the study found.  Removing a U.S. subsidy to farmers that reduces the price
of high fructose corn syrup, the main ingredient in sugar-
sweetened beverages, would be more effective at containing
obesity rates than taxing drinks, Finkelstein said.  The research was funded by  Healthy Eating Research , a
program of the Princeton, New Jersey-based Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation.  Tax Suggestion  Taxing soda drinks was  suggested last month  by the Debt
Reduction Task Force of the Bipartisan Policy Center, a non-
profit organization established in 2007 by a group of former
Senate Majority leaders.  The task force recommends the tax on all non-alcoholic
beverages with added calorie-dense sweeteners. The tax would
apply to sports drinks such as Gatorade, a PepsiCo Inc. product,
as well as energy drinks and fruit-flavored beverages if they
included added sugars or corn syrup.  The excise tax would take effect in 2012 and raise $156
billion through 2020, according to the task force. That equates
to 21 percent of the $756 billion in savings for federal health-
care spending under the task force’s proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 