-- South Korea Says Economic Growth to Slow Toward 5% in 2011 as Exports Cool
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-12-14T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/south-korea-says-economic-growth-to-slow-toward-5-in-2011.html
South Korea’s economic growth will
probably slow to around 5 percent next year after a 6.1 percent
expansion in 2010 as export gains moderate, the nation’s finance
ministry said.  Shipments abroad will increase 10 percent next year, down
from a 29 percent jump this year, trimming the trade surplus to
$29 billion from $41 billion, the ministry said in a statement
in Gwacheon today. Inflation may run at a 3 percent pace in 2011
after a 2.9 percent rate this year, the ministry also said.  The slowing in exports reflects a strengthening exchange
rate, with South Korea’s won advancing 21 percent against the
dollar since the end of the first quarter last year as the
global financial crisis ended. With capital flowing into the
emerging markets leading global growth, South Korea’s government
reiterated today it’s prepared to counter any inflows of funds
that threaten to destabilize the economy.  “An uncertain global economic outlook requires a flexible
policy approach,” said Yoon Jong Won, director-general at the
ministry. “We will make sure that ample liquidity and capital
inflows won’t unsettle prices and asset markets.”  The finance ministry’s forecasts indicate faster growth and
slower inflation than projected by the central bank. The Bank of
Korea last week forecast a 4.5 percent gain in gross domestic
product and 3.5 percent inflation rate for 2011. The ministry
said today the unemployment rate will likely fall to 3.5 percent
next year, from 3.7 percent, with the nation adding 280,000 jobs.  Rate Increases  Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  left the  seven-day
repurchase rate  at 2.5 percent last week, following quarter
percentage-point increases in July and November from a record-
low 2 percent. The benchmark remains below November’s 3.3
percent pace of inflation, signaling the central bank may have
to resume rate increases. The central bank aims for 2 percent to
4 percent on average through 2012.  The government may take additional steps to cope with an
expected increase in fund inflows fuelled by quantitative easing
in advanced economies, the ministry said. Possible measures
include strengthened rules covering foreign-currency derivatives
and a bank levy, it said.  Tension with North Korea, which shelled a border island
last month, had spurred speculation South Korea might scale back
efforts to stem any influx of foreign cash.  Hwang In Seong , vice
president of the Samsung Economic Research Institute in Seoul,
said last month officials “may delay additional steps to control
capital flows until international investors feel confident about
the security situation.”  North Korea  The finance ministry also said today that it plans to
improve a contingency plan for the economy in case of a possible
crisis due to North Korea.  The won appreciated 0.4 percent to 1,141.20 per dollar as
of 9:31 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Kospi stock index rose 0.3 percent today, approaching its
highest level since November 2007.  Nations from China to South Africa are striving to limit
currency volatility as near-zero borrowing costs in advanced
economies spur demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging-
markets. Governor Kim said yesterday the nation needs to use
“macro-prudential” measures to reduce the volatility of the
won because sharp fluctuations are an obstacle to financial-
market stability.  South Korean regulators began an audit of how banks handle
foreign-currency derivatives on Oct. 19 to tackle speculation.
The parliament’s finance committee on Dec. 7 supported a bill
that would tax interest income from treasury and central bank
bonds by as much as 14 percent and put a 20 percent levy on
capital gains from their sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  