-- Korean ETF Market Forecast to Surge on Products for Grains, Raw Materials
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2010-12-14T03:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/south-korean-exchange-traded-funds-in-spotlight-to-grow-67-bourse-says.html
South Korea’s exchange-traded funds
market is forecast to grow 67 percent in the next 12 months as the
country’s bourse introduces products tracking raw materials,
grains and corporate bonds, a stock exchange official said.  The value of ETF assets in South Korea, the fourth-biggest
market for the products in Asia, may expand to about 10 trillion
won ($8.8 billion) by 2011, according to Park Seong Rae,
executive director of the Kospi market division at  Korea
Exchange Inc.  That compares with 5.99 trillion won currently,
bourse data show.  “ETFs will continue to be pretty much in the spotlight
next year,” Park said in a telephone interview. “Returns by
some products this year were really good. Investors’ perception
toward the products has turned very positive.”  ETFs are typically designed to mimic the performance of
indexes. Unlike mutual funds, whose shares are priced once daily
after the end of each trading session, ETFs are listed on an
exchange where shares are bought and sold throughout the day
like stocks. Global ETF assets amounted to $1.24 trillion as of
October, compared with $74.3 billion in 2000, according to a
report by BlackRock Inc.  “As ETFs usually invest in flagship companies, they’re
good for investors who believe in the nation’s growth
potential,” said Park. Korea Exchange may also list overseas
money managers’ ETFs, he said, without providing details.  Asia-Pacific Markets  Samsung KODEX Shipbuilding ETF , which tracks the KRX
Shipbuilding Index, has advanced 74 percent this year.  Samsung
KODEX Samsung Group ETF , which follows the performance of an
index comprised of Samsung Group companies, has gained 25
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  South Korea ranked fourth in the Asia-Pacific ETF market in
terms of assets under management, trailing Japan, Hong Kong and
China, according to data in BlackRock’s report. Japan had $30.5
billion in ETF assets at the end of October, compared with Hong
Kong’s $26.7 billion and China’s $13.4 billion. South Korea had
$4.8 billion, the report said.  A total of 64 ETFs are currently traded on the Korea
Exchange, including products that track stock indexes, industry
sectors, government bonds and gold futures, according to the
exchange, which listed 16 new products this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 