-- South Korea's Army Chief Quits Amid Tension After North's Artillery Attack
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-12-14T08:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/south-korea-s-army-chief-of-staff-has-resigned-president-s-office-says.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
accepted his army chief’s offer to leave the post less than
three weeks after he replaced the defense minister following a
North Korean artillery attack that killed four people.  The resignation by Army Chief of Staff Hwang Eui Don
follows a  Chosun Ilbo  newspaper report on Dec. 9 that he may
have made an improper property investment. An official at Lee’s
office, who declined to be named because of government policy,
wouldn’t say why Hwang offered to quit.  Lee’s acceptance of the resignation comes after he pledged
to strengthen the military following North Korea’s Nov. 23
shelling of Yeonpyeong island and the March sinking of the
Cheonan warship. Hwang was appointed in June as Lee replaced
several four-star generals, including the Joint Chiefs of Staff
chairman, following the sinking that killed 46 sailors.  “It’s all part of the government efforts to show how
determined it is about revamping the military,” said Yang Moo
Jin, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies in
Seoul. “The reshuffle of top posts could send a message that
South Korea is serious about retaliating against any North
Korean provocation when it says it will.”  Lee named Kim Kwan Jin as defense minister just three days
after the artillery barrage, amid criticism the military’s
response was inadequate. Kim said at his Dec. 3 confirmation
hearing that he will use all military capabilities, including
air strikes, if North Korea attacks again.  Steinberg, Jiang  U.S. Deputy Secretary of State James Steinberg is to arrive
in Beijing today as the administration of President Barack Obama
puts pressure on China to push its ally, North Korea, to change
its behavior. North Korea has agreed to push forward with six-
party talks on its nuclear weapons program, China’s Foreign
Ministry spokesman Jiang Yu told reporters today.  North Korea’s commitment was made during Chinese State
Councilor Dai Bingguo’s trip to Pyongyang last week when he met
leader Kim Jong Il, Jiang said. The Dec. 9 meeting produced
“important consensus,” China’s Foreign Ministry said at the
time, giving no further details.  China has proposed to convene “emergency” six-party talks
to defuse tensions on the peninsula, a call rejected by the
U.S., Japan and South Korea. The forum, also involving Russia,
last met in December 2008.  The assault on Yeonpyeong was North Korea’s first shelling
of South Korean soil since their 1950-53 war, which ended in a
cease-fire, leaving the Korean peninsula at a technical state of
war. The shelling came eight months after the sinking of the
Cheonan in nearby waters, which was also blamed on Kim Jong Il’s
regime. The North denied any involvement.  South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Han Min Koo
had also intended to offer his resignation before he was stopped
by the defense minister, Yonhap News reported, without saying
where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  