-- South Korea Unemployment Unexpectedly Reaches Lowest Level in Six Months
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-12-15T03:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/south-korea-unemployment-unexpectedly-reaches-lowest-level-in-six-months.html
South Korea’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly fell to a six-month low as the nation’s economic
expansion encouraged manufacturers to hire more workers,
increasing the central bank’s scope to raise borrowing costs.  The  jobless rate  fell to 3.2 percent in November from 3.6
percent in October, Statistics Korea said in Gwacheon today. The
reading was below the 3.6 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of eight economists.  Lee Sung Kwon , an economist at
Shinhan Investment Corp in Seoul, said before the release that
temporary hiring for a census likely influenced the data.  A strengthening job market risks adding to price pressures,
prompting the  Bank of Korea  to keep raising rates. Governor  Kim Choong Soo  refrained from policy tightening last week after
quarter percentage-point increases in July and November from a
record-low 2 percent.  “The central bank will likely feel more tempted to raise
rates as soon as in February,” said  Kong Dong Rak , a fixed-
income analyst at Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul,
said. “The job data is surprisingly strong.”  South Korea’s currency retreated today even after the jobs
report, with speculation that the government will step up
measures to slow inflows of foreign capital. The won dropped 0.9
percent to 1,150.40 per dollar at 12:24 p.m. in Seoul, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark  Kospi  stock index
slipped 0.2 percent to 2,005.37.  Industrial output in October fell 4.2 percent on a monthly
basis, the biggest drop in 22 months. At the same time, overseas
shipments expanded for the 13th consecutive month in November.  Growth Outlook  The Finance Ministry said yesterday the nation’s economic
growth will probably slow to around 5 percent next year after a
6.1 percent expansion in 2010 as export gains moderate.
Inflation may run at a 3 percent pace in 2011 after a 2.9
percent rate this year. It also projected the unemployment rate
will likely fall to 3.5 percent next year, from 3.7 percent,
with the nation adding 280,000 jobs.  The seasonally unadjusted jobless rate was 3 percent in
November, compared with 3.3 percent in October, today’s report
showed. The number of employed people increased 303,000 to 24.11
million last month from a year earlier.  Employment in the manufacturing industry climbed 7.4
percent from a year earlier, while the number of people self-
employed or working in the public-service sector rose 0.6
percent, today’s report showed.  The number employed in construction increased 2.9 percent,
while jobs in the agricultural, fishery and forestry sectors
fell 3 percent. The number of people employed in the wholesale
and retail, and restaurants and hotels sectors declined 1.3
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  