-- Sri Lanka Keeps Interest Rates Unchanged to Support Growth After Civil War
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2010-12-14T02:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/sri-lanka-keeps-interest-rates-unchanged-to-support-growth-after-civil-war.html
Sri Lanka’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rates unchanged for a fourth straight month
to support economic growth as the nation emerges from a 26-year
civil war.  The Central Bank of Sri Lanka left the  reverse repurchase
rate  at 9 percent, the lowest level since November 2004, and the
 repurchase rate  at 7.25 percent, according to a statement on the
Colombo-based bank’s  website  today.  Sri Lanka is charting an economic policy aimed at
accelerating  growth  and controlling inflation after President
 Mahinda Rajapaksa ’s government defeated the separatist
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam in May 2009. Sri Lanka said
Nov. 22 it will cut taxes on banks and builders, adopt an
inflation target, and ease foreign-exchange rules.  “The government is keen to boost growth, create jobs and
promote all round development after peace returned to the
island,”  Sarath Rajapakse , director of research at Capital
Trust Securities Pvt. in Colombo, said before the report. “Sri
Lanka’s inflation is less worrisome compared with the other
countries in the South Asian region.”  Sri Lanka’s central bank Governor  Ajith Nivard Cabraal 
lowered rates in July and August and has kept borrowing costs
unchanged since then even as counterparts in neighboring India
and Pakistan tightened monetary policy. He said Nov. 16 that
rates are likely to stay unchanged until next year.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices  in the capital, Colombo, rose 7 percent in
November from a year earlier. That’s almost half the average
inflation rate in the five years through December 2009 after an
expansion in farm cultivation, following the end of the war,
boosted production.  India on Nov. 2 raised rates for the sixth time in 2010 to
rein in consumer-price inflation running at more than 8 percent.
Pakistan boosted its benchmark discount rate on Nov. 29 for the
third time since late July. Pakistan’s inflation rate rose 15.5
percent in November from a year earlier, the highest rate among
the 17 Asian economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Sri Lanka’s inflation will “remain subdued at mid-single
digits, on an annual average basis, by end-year,” the central
bank said on Nov. 16.  Rajapaksa, unveiling the 2011 budget in Colombo on Nov. 22,
announced plans to lower the value added tax for lenders to 12
percent from 20 percent, reduce the levy on construction
companies to 12 percent and offer breaks to tea and rubber
companies.  Corporate Debt  The government will allow foreign investors to buy
corporate debt in the country, let local residents purchase
shares of foreign companies and enable insurers to invest up to
20 percent of their “long-term fund and technical reserves”
abroad, according to the  budget .  Sri Lanka plans to introduce inflation targeting in its
monetary policy in order to keep prices low for long periods,
the central bank said Nov. 22. It didn’t say what level of
inflation it would target.  Sri Lanka’s $42 billion  economy  may  grow  8 percent in 2010,
and expand as much as 9 percent in 2011 as the government spends
more on power and roads and tourists flock to the island nation,
Cabraal said on Dec. 6.  Prospects of faster growth have also encouraged companies
including  Aitken Spence & Co.  to step up investments in Sri
Lanka.  Aitken Spence, Sri Lanka’s biggest operator of resorts,
said Sept. 30 it will build a hotel with Six Senses Resorts &
Spas in an investment worth as much as $40 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  