-- Sudan Revives Local Sukuk After Global Bond Sale Failed: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-12-15T12:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/sudan-revives-local-sukuk-after-global-bond-sale-fails-islamic-finance.html
Sudan is selling Islamic bonds to
local banks after attempts to issue global notes this year
failed on investor concern over the country’s conflict in Darfur
and a possible breakup after more than two decades of civil war.  The government is selling 800 million Sudanese pounds ($336
million) of seven-year sukuk this week to complete plans to
raise 1.89 billion pounds, said Azhari Eltayeb Elfaki, general
manager of the Sudan Financial Services Co., 99 percent-owned by
the central bank, in an interview in Khartoum Dec. 13.  Faisal
Islamic Bank (Sudan) , Sudan’s oldest Shariah-compliant lender,
and Financial Investment Bank are among lenders that bought 570
million pounds of a second portion this week, he said.  Sudan, which needs funds to bridge its budget gap and
diversify the economy, has been classified by the U.S. as a
sponsor of terrorism and been subject to economic sanctions
since 1997. Sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest oil exporter is
facing dissolution next month as the south, which accounts for
as much as 80 percent of the nation’s oil output, prepares to
vote on a referendum to secede from the north.  Sudan’s difficulty in selling bonds outside is “aggravated
by the fact that it has high political risk associated with
Darfur and its incumbent president,” said  Sergey Dergachev , who
helps manage the equivalent of $8.5 billion in emerging-market
debt at Union Investment in Frankfurt, in an e-mailed response
to questions on Dec. 13. Sudan has “a very low level of
transparency and it is extremely tough to get reliable and
useful information to assess the macroeconomic, and the external
and public debt situation,” he said.  Financing Deficits  The  International Criminal Court  has issued arrest warrants
for Sudanese President  Umar al-Bashir  on allegations of
genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes in Sudan’s
western Darfur region.  Growth in the $65.9 billion economy will accelerate to 5.5
percent this year and 6.2 percent in 2011, from 4.5 percent last
year, the International Monetary Fund said in its October
 Regional Economic Outlook  report. The government is targeting 5
percent economic growth next year, Finance Minister Ali Mahmoud
Abdel Rasoul said Nov. 10 in Omdurman, a suburb of Khartoum.  The budget deficit may narrow to 3.2 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011, Abdel Rasoul said. Central Bank
Governor  Sabir Hassan  estimated in November 2009 a shortfall of
4.9 percent for this year. The government plans to fund with
domestic borrowing including sales of Islamic bonds, and from
external loans of 4.4 billion Sudanese pounds from such nations
as China, Arab states and India, he said.  Overseas borrowings stood at $35.7 billion in 2009, with
more than $30 billion in “arrears,” or past due dates, the
World Bank and the IMF said in a  statement  on Dec. 13.  Returns  The government raised 500 million Sudanese pounds from the
sale of seven-year sukuk last month, Elfaki said, adding that
overseas investors bought 12.5 percent of the offering. The
final 800-million Sudanese-pound portion will close Dec. 20, he
said. The debt is backed by the government’s stake in Khartoum
Refinery Co., a joint venture with  China National Petroleum
Corp ., Elfaki said.  The notes, which comply with the religion’s ban on
interest, will pay a return of 14 percent annually, said
Khartoum-based Osama Al-Nour Mohamed, the head of research and
statistics at Sudan Financial Services. The firm is selling the
debt for the government.  Calls to Faisal Islamic Bank’s office in Khartoum weren’t
answered. Calls to the debt capital markets department at
Financial Investment Bank weren’t returned.  ‘Steer Away’  The government delayed an overseas sale of $300 million of
Islamic bonds originally planned for 2008 because of “political
uncertainty,” Hassan said Nov. 3. Sudan isn’t rated by Moody’s
Investors Service or Standard & Poor’s, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Sudan is one nation that we don’t consider at all,”  Zeid Ayer , who helps manage $1.6 billion of Shariah-compliant assets
at CIMB-Principal Islamic Asset Management Sdn. Bhd., said in a
telephone interview from Kuala Lumpur Dec. 13. “It’s not
investment grade, it isn’t rated, so its debt isn’t something
we’d be interested in.”  Southern Sudan is set to vote Jan. 9 on whether to remain
united with northern Sudan or form an independent nation. The
vote is the centerpiece of a 2005 peace deal that ended a 21-
year civil war between the Muslim north and the south, where
Christian and traditional beliefs dominate. About 70 percent of
Sudan’s 44 million people are Muslim, according to the Central
 Intelligence Agency World Factbook .  Spread Shrinks  “The country has quite a high debt to gross domestic
product ratio,” Dubai-based  Ahmad Alanani , head of Middle East
fixed-income sales at Exotix Ltd., said in a telephone interview
Dec. 13. “There’s also a question about the nation’s credit
worthiness if secession in 2011 becomes a matter of fact.”  Southern Sudanese overwhelmingly favor secession from the
north, the  Washington-based National Democratic Institute  said
in an Oct. 20 report.  Global sales of Islamic debt declined 28 percent to $14.5
billion so far this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The spread between the average yield for global sukuk and
the London interbank offered rate shrank 47 basis points this
month to 313 yesterday, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US
Dollar Sukuk Index . Shariah-compliant bonds returned 0.7 percent
in the period, the data show. Debt in developing markets dropped
less than 0.1 percent this month, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI
Global Diversified Index  shows.  Referendum  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s dollar
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 has narrowed 51 basis points to 339 in December, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Dubai’s 6.396
percent sukuk maturing in November 2014 rose 4 basis points
today, the data show.  The U.S. eased sanctions on Sudan this year, allowing the
export of farming equipment to help local food production and to
boost the agriculture industry, the U.S. Office of Foreign
Assets Control said in a statement Oct. 20.  Sudan has been  fighting rebels in Darfur  since 2003, when
insurgents took up arms, accusing the government of neglecting
the region. The conflict has led to the death of as many as
300,000 people and forced about 2.7 million to flee their homes,
according to United Nations estimates. The Sudanese government
has put the death toll at about 10,000.  If the authorities in Khartoum fail to hold a credible,
peaceful referendum, the U.S. could add more sanctions on Sudan
and step up international pressure, U.S. Senator  John Kerry  said
Oct. 22. Kerry is a Massachusetts Democrat and chairman of the
 Senate Foreign Relations Committee .  ‘Everything Islamic’  Sudan relies on oil exports for most of its foreign
currency earnings and reserves are estimated by the IMF at $1
billion for 2010. The country produced 490,000 barrels of oil a
day in 2009, according to the BP Statistical Review of World
Energy.  The government began selling Islamic bonds in 1998, and the
financial industry adheres to Shariah-compliant principles, the
Sudan Financial Services’ Mohamed said.  “Everything is Islamic, the banking sector and
everything,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  