-- Sudanese Police Arrest 43 Protesters Against Indecency Laws in Khartoum
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-12-14T19:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/sudan-arrests-protesters-against-indecency-law-opposition-says.html
Sudanese  police arrested 52 people
protesting against the Public Order Law, a week after a video
circulated on the Internet showing police whipping a woman,
according to the police, one of the detainees and an opposition
spokeswoman.  “We were expressing our anger peacefully,” Amal Habani
said by phone from inside the police station where she was being
held with other detainees in Khartoum, the capital. “We want
the abolishment of all laws that humiliate Sudanese women.”  The protest, which took place outside the Ministry of
Justice, was called by a group known as “No to Subjugating
Women Initiative,” said Mariam al-Mahdi, spokeswoman of the
Umma opposition party. Its goal was to deliver a memorandum to
the minister calling for the abolition of the Public Order Law,
Habani said. Policemen beat the protesters and dragged them on
the floor as they arrested them, she said.  The Public Order Law criminalizes acts such as the mixing
of unmarried couples sitting together and women wearing trousers
in public, and punishes them with fines or lashes.  Amnesty
International  has called on the Sudanese government to amend its
penal code and abolish laws that allow for flogging as a
penalty, calling it “cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment.”  Indecent Clothing  Khartoum’s police “contained an illegal assembly”  today
arresting 46 women and six men, because the organizers didn’t
get permission for the protest, the police said in a statement
on the Interior Ministry’s website.  The detainees were released, but they remain under
investigation for illegal assembly, disturbing public safety and
public nuisance, the statement said.  Lubna Hussein, a female journalist and former  United
Nations  employee, stood trial in July last year on charges of
wearing indecent clothing in a case that drew international
criticism of Sudan, including by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and rights groups. The court fined Hussein $210 for
wearing trousers and didn’t order lashes.  Seven male models and one female makeup artist were
convicted of indecent acts this month and fined 200 Sudanese
pounds ($84) each following a mixed fashion show, their defense
lawyer, Adam Bakr, said.  Rights groups say the law doesn’t give guidelines about
what constitutes an indecent act, leaving it up to the personal
interpretation of each policeman.  Sudan has been governed by Islamic Shariah law since 1983
when it was introduced by former president  Gaafar al-Nimeiri .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 