-- Swaps Doubling Signal Traders Prepared for January Rate Rise: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-12-15T07:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/swaps-doubling-show-traders-see-january-rate-rise-india-credit.html
India’s central bank will probably
resume Asia’s fastest round of interest-rate increases next
month, after pausing tomorrow, on signs money-market traders are
bracing for a revival in inflation.  The  difference  between one-year interest-rate swaps and the
benchmark repurchase rate doubled to a six-week high of 73 basis
points today from 35.5 basis points when India last lifted rates
on Nov. 2. The Reserve Bank of India may raise the  repurchase
rate  to 6.5 percent from 6.25 percent on Jan. 25 after keeping
it unchanged at noon tomorrow, according to 11 of 16 economists
in Bloomberg News survey. Only three of 15 polled last week saw
a January move.  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao , who has boosted the repurchase
rate by 1.5 percentage point in 2010, the most in Asia, needs to
gain control over costs in a nation where 828 million people
live on less than $2 a day. While a report yesterday showed
 wholesale-price inflation  slowed to an 11-month low of 7.48
percent in November from 8.58 percent in October, the rate is
still higher than the 5.1 percent in China and 5.6 percent in
Brazil.  “The central bank isn’t done yet with rate tightening,”
said Rajeev Malik, a senior economist at CLSA Asia Pacific
Markets. “The RBI will come back in January and hike rates to
contain inflation.”  Swap Rates  The  one-year swap rate , the fixed cost to receive a
floating interest rate, advanced 38 basis points, or 0.38
percentage point, since Nov. 2 to 6.98 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The similar rate in  China  climbed 77 basis
points in that period to 3.14 percent, while  Russia ’s rose 51
basis points to 5.24 and  Brazil ’s climbed 59 basis points to
11.81 percent.  Subbarao said last week that inflation remains above the
“tolerance level” of between 4 percent and 4.5 percent.  An RBI survey of price expectations of 4,000 households in
urban areas showed a separate inflation index may quicken to
12.7 percent in the next year from 12.1 percent now, according
to a Dec. 9  statement  from the central bank. A report on Dec. 10
showed India’s  industrial production  rose 10.8 percent in
October, faster than the 8.5 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists, signaling consumer demand
remains strong in Asia’s third-largest economy.  ‘Uncomfortably High’  “Inflation may trend down gradually but the level will
remain uncomfortably high,” Tushar Poddar, Mumbai-based
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a note on Dec.
2. “Core inflation will move sequentially higher due to
increasing domestic demand and rising asset and commodity
prices.”  Inflation may average 6 percent in the year starting April
1, said Poddar, who predicted 1 percentage point in rate
increases by December 2011, more than his previous forecast of
between 50 basis points and 75 basis points.  The worst  cash crunch  in 10 years may prompt the central
bank to hold off on interest rates for another month as it buys
government securities to alleviate fund shortages, Ashutosh
Datar, a strategist at IIFL Ltd., a Mumbai-based Indian
brokerage.  “The RBI may pause in December to assess the impact of the
previous rate moves and because of the cash crunch,” said
Datar. Even so, “inflation pressures are building up
strongly,” he said.  Yields Drop  The yield on India’s benchmark 2020 security has dropped
nine basis points from a 26-month high of 8.21 percent in the
past week as the Reserve Bank bought back 101 billion rupees
($2.2 billion) of securities. The rate rose three basis points
today to 8.12 percent.  Overnight loan rates  between banks averaged 6.6 percent
this month, compared with 3.3 percent a year ago. Banks borrowed
an average 824 billion rupees a day this quarter using the
Reserve Bank’s  repurchase auction window , compared with 239
billion rupees in the previous three months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, indicating a shortage of money.  Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told reporters in Kolkata last
week that the move to replenish funds isn’t a sign of a change
in monetary policy.  The rupee dropped 0.7 percent today to 45.27 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency advanced
2.7 percent this year as foreign funds poured a record $9.6
billion into  rupee debt , driving the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
 Sensitive Index  up by 14 percent.  Rate Differential  While the RBI’s repurchase rate is 6.25 percent, the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s target for overnight interbank loans is zero
to 0.25 percent, where it has been since December 2008. As a
result, the  spread  between India’s debt due in a decade and 10-
year Treasuries, has widened 46 basis points since the South
Asian nation’s first rate increase on March 19 to 461 today. The
gap, which has averaged 317 in the past decade, reached a
decade’s high of 567 on Oct. 20.  “A widening interest-rate differential coupled with the
relatively open stance toward capital inflows points to further
rupee appreciation,” said Vishnu Varathan, Singapore-based
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. Varathan last week forecast
a quarter-point increase in the repurchase rate in January from
an earlier prediction of no change. He said the rupee may gain
to 42 against the dollar by the end of 2011.  Local-currency debt returned 4.4 percent in 2010, according
to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc, as the Reserve Bank
tightened its monetary policy. Investors in China earned 1.5
percent, the least in the region, the indexes show.  State Bank Debt  Prices of five-year credit-default swaps used to protect
against losses on the debt of India’s largest lenders fell in
the past three months, according to data provider CMA. Swap
prices dropped 27 basis points for State Bank of India, the
nation’s largest lender, and 32 basis points for ICICI Bank
Ltd., the country’s second-biggest lender. The swaps are used to
protect against missed debt payments.  Price pressures in India may also emerge after companies
including Bharat Petroleum Corp. raised gasoline prices
yesterday and as Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government
plans to cut subsidy to state refiners, including  Indian Oil
Corp ., that sell fuel below costs. The government partly
compensates refiners for their losses, which increase as crude
prices rise.  Crude in New York trading reached $90.76 a barrel on Dec.
7, the highest level since Oct. 8, 2008. Oil has gained 12
percent this year. India, which imports three-quarters of its
crude oil needs, is working on a plan to boost diesel prices,
Petroleum Minister  Murli Deora  said Dec. 13.  “Inflation is a big worry,” said Suvodeep Rakshit, an
economist at Kotak Securities Ltd in Mumbai. “A rate hike seems
to be on the cards in January given the risks to inflation from
growth and rising commodity prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  