-- U.K. Inflation Unexpectedly Reaches Six-Month High of 3.3%, Pressuring BOE
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-14T11:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/u-k-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerates-to-six-month-high-on-food-clothes.html
The U.K.  inflation rate  unexpectedly
accelerated to a six-month high in November, adding to the case
for policy makers to rein in cost pressures.  Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent from a year earlier after
a 3.2 percent increase in October, the Office for National
Statistics said today in London. That’s the highest since May
and exceeded the 3.2 percent median forecast of 33 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. Food prices jumped 1.6 percent on the month.  Inflation has been above the government’s 3 percent limit
for nine months and a sales-tax increase in January may add to
prices in 2011. Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean 
yesterday said the strength of inflation has increased the risk
to price expectations and there may also be less slack in the
economy than previously thought.  “It makes a second round of quantitative easing even less
likely,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “Inflation will stay above the 3 percent limit next
year with the peak coming in the first quarter. Today’s data
tells a story of inflation being elevated for longer.”  The pound jumped as much as 0.2 percent against the dollar
after the report and was at $1.5876 as of 11:01 a.m. in London
little changed on the day. U.K. government bonds fell, with the
10-year gilt yield gaining 1 basis point to 3.56 percent.  Energy, Cotton  From the previous month, consumer prices rose 0.4 percent
in November, exceeding economists’ forecast for a 0.3 percent
increase. Clothes prices jumped 2 percent on the month and
furniture prices rose 1.6 percent.  So-called  core inflation , which excludes costs of energy,
alcohol, food and tobacco, remained at 2.7 percent, matching the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists.  Higher prices for commodities may continue to put upward
pressure on inflation. Npower, the U.K. unit of RWE AG, will
raise household gas and power prices 5 percent from Jan. 4, it
said last week.  Next Plc , the U.K.’s second-biggest clothing
retailer, and  Associated British Foods Plc , the owner of Primark
stores, have both highlighted pressure from cotton prices.  The Bank of England predicts that inflation will stay above
its 2 percent goal next year, masking underlying subdued price
pressures from the aftermath of the recession. That may prevent
officials from adding stimulus to aid the economy during the
deepest budget cuts since World War II.  ‘Credibility’  Nevertheless, with the bank forecasting that inflation will
ease to below the target by the end of 2012, officials are
“unlikely to respond” to today’s “surprise,” said  Fabio Fois , an economist at Barclays Capital in London.  “The Monetary Policy Committee has nailed its colors to
the mast; it views the current high rate of inflation as
temporary,” Fois said in an e-mailed note. “In its
forbearance, it is putting its credibility on the line, however,
and if inflation rises further, as we expect, the situation is
set to become even more uncomfortable.”  The bank’s nine-member committee kept its bond-purchase
plan unchanged this month and held its benchmark interest rate
at a record low of 0.5 percent. In November,  Andrew Sentance 
called for higher rates to combat inflation, while  Adam Posen 
pushed for more stimulus to sustain the recovery. Minutes of
this month’s decision are due Dec. 22.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  has said that
consumer-price gains will stay “elevated” in 2011 and that
policy makers stand ready to change policy in either direction.  “Given the unexpected strength of inflation in recent
months,” the risk to longer-term price expectations “has
probably increased of late,” Bean said yesterday. Moreover, the
high rate of inflation “could indicate that the margin of spare
capacity is not as large as the collapse in activity might
suggest,” he said.  Retail-price inflation , a measure of the cost of living
used in wage negotiations, unexpectedly accelerated to 4.7
percent in November, the highest in three months, from 4.5
percent in October. Economists forecast a reading of 4.5
percent, according to a Bloomberg survey. Excluding mortgage
costs, it was at 4.7 percent, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  