-- Britain's Banking Market Is Too `Concentrated,' Metro Bank Chief Hill Says
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-12-14T13:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/u-k-banking-market-too-concentrated-metro-bank-s-hill-says.html
The U.K. banking market is too
concentrated and not serving consumers well, according to Metro
Bank co-founder  Vernon Hill .  “We have a very concentrated market with a small number of
banks essentially offering the same products and the same
services and the customer has very little choice,” Hill, 65,
told a  House of Commons  committee today. “The larger a retail
bank is, once they get past a certain point, the poorer they
serve the consumer.”  Metro became the first new U.K. consumer bank in more than
a century when it opened for business in July. It is attempting
to win clients from the U.K.’s biggest banks by opening longer
and providing better service than rivals. The government-
sponsored  Independent Commission on Banking  is examining whether
to recommend the breakup of British banks such as  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to improve
competition and financial stability.  The U.K.’s four biggest banks -- RBS, Lloyds, Barclays Plc
and HSBC Holdings Plc -- have more than 70 percent of Britons’
checking accounts, according to  research  compiled by Mintel and
published by the Office of Fair Trading last month.  Eric Daniels , chief executive officer of Lloyds, and RBS
CEO  Stephen Hester  said last week the U.K. already had a
competitive market and that dividing banks won’t improve the
outcome for consumers.  ‘Freedom of Choice’  Hill said that it wouldn’t be enough to break up the big
banks to improve customer service. “If you want freedom of
choice in the retail banking market, you have to get new players
into the market,” he said. “Whatever the government can do to
make it easier and more convenient for customers to switch banks
will help the new players.”  There’s no proof that scale creates economies of scale,
Hill said.  Metro raised 50 million pounds ($79 million) of capital on
Dec. 12 to expand and plans to have about 200 to 250 outlets by
2020. Hill, a former real estate developer and owner of Burger
King restaurants, founded Commerce Bancorp Inc. in 1973 and
built it into the largest bank in New Jersey, with more than 400
branches.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  