-- U.K. RICS Housing Gauge Stays Close to 18-Month Low
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-14T11:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/u-k-housing-gauge-stayed-close-to-18-month-low-in-november.html
A U.K.  housing-market gauge  stayed
close to the lowest in 18 months in November as demand for homes
waned, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said.  The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying
prices fell exceeded those reporting gains by 44 percentage
points, compared with minus 49 points in October, the London-
based group said in an e-mailed report today. Economists
forecast a decline to minus 50 points, according to the median
of 16 predictions in a  Bloomberg News survey .  “Fear over how future spending cuts will impact on the
jobs market are clearly still weighing heavily on potential
purchasers’ minds, with many deciding to ‘wait and see’ until
the new year,” RICS spokesman  Ian Perry  said in a statement.
“Meanwhile, the lack of mortgage finance continues to deter
first-time buyers.”  Recent data have shown a mixed picture of the housing
market. While the Bank of England kept its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low this month, making loan repayments cheaper,
mortgage approvals fell to an eight month-low in October.
Consumers are also bracing themselves for the deepest spending
cuts since World War II, leading to the loss of 330,000 jobs.  A gauge of new buyer enquiries dropped to minus 18 in
November from minus 12, RICS said. A measure showing the number
of new property listings was unchanged at minus 4.  An index of prices in London was at minus 32 percent in
November, compared with minus 49 percent the previous month.  ‘Downward Spiral’  “The housing market is only a shadow of itself in 2007,”
Jeremy Dell, a real-estate agent at JJ Dell & Co. in Shropshire,
England, said in the report. “The economics indicate a long
downward spiral.”  The U.K. has at least seven indicators of the housing
market, which have shown divergence in recent months.
Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said on Dec. 10
that house prices increased to the highest in more than two
years in November. Mortgage lender Halifax said prices fell 0.1
percent that month, while the Department for Communities and
Local Government said today that prices declined by that amount
in October.  Banks are still curbing credit. Lenders granted 47,185
loans to buy homes in October, compared with 47,369 in
September, the Bank of England said on Nov. 29. That’s less than
half the level at the peak of the housing boom in 2007.  Still, the number of mortgage holders in arrears fell 11
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, the  Financial
Services Authority  said today. The increase in the number of new
arrears cases is also easing. There were 36,600 such cases in
the quarter, a drop of 19 percent on the year.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee last week left
its benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record low 0.5
percent and its emergency bond-purchase plan at 200 billion
pounds ($317 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  