-- U.S. Interest Rate Swap Spreads to Narrow on January Effect, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-12-14T18:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/u-s-interest-rate-swap-spreads-to-narrow-on-january-effect-jpmorgan-says.html
U.S. interest rate swap spreads are
likely to narrow through early January as corporate debt
issuance increases and demand for higher-yielding assets climbs,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “A key factor likely to influence swap spreads over the
next few weeks is the well-advertised January effect, which is a
strong seasonal tendency for spreads to narrow,” wrote a team
of strategists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. led by  Terry Belton , New
York-based global head of fixed-income and foreign-exchange
research, in a note dated Dec. 10. Belton wasn’t available to
comment today.  The five-year swap spread has narrowed in nine out the past
10 years during the mid-December to early January period, with
the average amount 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point,
JPMorgan data shows. Swap rates are typically higher than
Treasury yields as the floating payments are based on interest
rates, such as Libor, that contain credit risk. Sovereign debt
is usually viewed as less risky.  The five-year  spread , the difference between the five-year
swap rate and the comparable maturity Treasury yield, widened
0.5 basis point today to 21.25 basis points. This year the
spread reached as low as 6.5 basis points in March and as high
as 42.5 basis points in May.  “While strong seasonal patterns make us cautious on
intermediate spread wideners, we do favor long-end wideners
where spreads now appear extremely cheap relative to fair
value,” he wrote. Belton’s fixed-income research group was No.
1 this year in Institutional Investor magazine’s poll of U.S.
money managers.  The 30-year swap spread, trading today at negative 27 basis
points, is about 18 basis points below JPMorgan’s fair-valued
estimate, the largest mispricing since May 2009, Belton wrote.  The 30-year swap spread turned negative for the first time
in October 2008 and has mostly traded below zero since January
2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  