-- U.S. Financial Crisis Panel Republicans Plan Protest on Report Due Date
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-12-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/u-s-crisis-panel-republicans-plan-protest-on-report-due-date.html
The internal split between
Republicans and Democrats on the congressionally appointed
commission investigating the 2008 financial crisis is about to
break into the open.  Republican members of the  Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission  are planning to register a public protest against a
decision by the FCIC’s Democratic majority to push back a
deadline for reporting its findings.  The move is in part a reaction to a plan that would limit
dissenting views to 36 pages in a 500-page book the panel is set
to publish next year, three people with knowledge of the protest
said.  Bill Thomas , vice chairman of the  panel , told reporters in
Washington yesterday that he is trying to schedule a news
conference for tomorrow, the day the panel was required to issue
its final report. While Thomas didn’t give details, the people
said the FCIC’s four Republicans are likely to attend and may
provide a preview of their own report.  The Republicans are angry that the commission’s six
Democrats voted last month to push the delivery of the final
report to January, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the plans aren’t public.  “A report containing the findings and conclusions of the
FCIC on the causes of the financial crisis can be delivered by
the statutory delivery date, and Republican commissioners are
prepared to work to meet the deadline,” the four said in a
statement when the delay was announced. The change was made to
“accommodate the publication” of the book, they said.  Buffett Testimony  Congress created the FCIC to investigate the causes of the
financial crisis that toppled  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  and
prompted U.S. bailouts for companies including American
International Group Inc. The commission has taken testimony from
executives including billionaire  Warren Buffett  and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein .  The panel, headed by former California treasurer  Phil Angelides , has been beset by internal disputes and staff
departures throughout its existence. At least five staff members
have left since January, including  Matthew Cooper , the former
Time magazine White House correspondent who had been hired to
help write the book.  While the current fight is over process, the Republicans
and Democrats are also debating how to apportion blame for the
crisis among banks, regulators and financial companies including
mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Legislation approving the FCIC’s formation gave the panel
an $8 million budget and said the commission “shall” submit a
report to the president and Congress containing its findings on
“December 15, 2010.” Republicans have cited the statute in
arguing that the group should deliver a report by that date.  60-Day Extension  Democrats said the law also permitted the panel to use a
60-day period after the deadline for wrapping up its activities
including “disseminating the final report.”  FCIC spokesman  Tucker Warren  declined to comment on the
Republicans’ plans. He also declined to discuss the “internal
commissioner discussion” on page limits in the book.  The official report delivered to Congress and President
 Barack Obama  and an online version for public consumption won’t
have constraints on length, Warren said.  “Regarding alternative views or dissent, should there be
any, the commission has ensured that there will be adequate
amount of space to do so,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  