-- Bioterrorism Readiness Hurt by Cuts in State Health Programs, Study Finds
-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 2010-12-14T15:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/u-s-funding-cuts-endanger-bioterrorism-readiness-report-finds.html
Shrinking budgets for U.S. state
health programs are endangering the nation’s ability to confront
epidemics and bioterrorism, according to a report.  Cuts in federal and state spending threaten improvements
for coping with outbreaks of illnesses such as influenza since
the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the study found. The  Trust for
America’s Health , a Washington-based nonprofit that advocates
for disease prevention, and Princeton, New Jersey-based  Robert
Wood Johnson Foundation , a philanthropy that finances health
research, released the findings today.  Two-thirds of U.S. states -- 33 and the District of
Columbia -- trimmed spending on emergency preparedness for
public health in fiscal years 2008 through 2010 as the recession
constrained budgets, the study found. The report doesn’t include
a figure for total state spending on public health.  “If we don’t see this funding stream maintained, we are
going to see the preparedness at the state and local level
deteriorate,”  Jerome Hauer , chief executive officer of the
 Hauer Group LLC  consulting firm in Alexandria, Virginia, said by
telephone yesterday. “We’re going to wind up back where we
started” before the 2001 attacks, he said.  Failure to keep government support for the programs will
make the U.S. more vulnerable to a pandemic or attack with
biological weapons, said Hauer, director of the New York Office
of Emergency Management from 1996 to 2000 who wasn’t involved in
the study. Public health budgets may not loosen when Republicans
who campaigned to cut spending take control of the U.S. House
next year, he said.  The federal government spent $1.19 billion on programs in
fiscal 2010 to help states, municipalities and hospitals prepare
for public health emergencies, a 16 percent decline from fiscal
2005, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Young  in Washington at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 