-- U.S. Foreclosure Prevention Program to Fall Short, Watchdog Panel Finds
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/u-s-foreclosure-prevention-program-to-fall-short-watchdog-panel-finds.html
A U.S. Treasury  program  aimed at
preventing 3 million  foreclosures  is likely to fulfill less than
a third of its goal, a congressional watchdog reported.  The Treasury’s homeowner aid effort is “ineffective” and
has failed to hold mortgage companies accountable, the
Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief
Program said in a report released today.  “The program has turned out to be a lot smaller and have a
lot less impact on the housing market than we expected,” said
former U.S. Senator  Ted Kaufman , the chairman of the panel.  The Home Affordable Modification Program, or  HAMP , pays
lenders and servicers to rewrite loan terms for borrowers who
can’t make their current mortgage payments. Since its 2008
creation, HAMP’s goal of preventing 3 million to 4 million
foreclosures “has been repeatedly redefined and watered down,”
the panel said.  “If current trends hold, HAMP will prevent only 700,000 to
800,000 foreclosures,” a small portion of the 8 million to 13
million foreclosures expected by 2012, said Kaufman, a Democrat
from Delaware.  The Treasury will spend only about a fourth of the $50
billion it allocated for the program in 2009, according to the
Congressional Budget Office.  “For this reason, Treasury’s reluctance to acknowledge
HAMP’s shortcomings has had real consequences,” the TARP panel
found. “Absent a dramatic and unexpected increase in HAMP
enrollment, many billions of dollars set aside for foreclosure
mitigation may well be left unused. As a result, an untold
number of borrowers may go without help.”  Dropouts  Homeowners are dropping out of the program at a faster rate
than they’re joining it, the Treasury reported last month. The
number of borrowers aided by HAMP grew to nearly 520,000 in
October, up 23,750 from a month earlier, while 36,300 dropped
out after failing to make their modified payments.  Timothy Massad , Treasury’s acting assistant secretary for
financial stability, called the report “somewhat unfair.”  Massad said that while 500,000 homeowners have received
permanent loan modifications under HAMP, the impact goes beyond
those numbers because mortgage servicers have imitated HAMP with
their own programs.  “We’ve set a new standard for the industry,” Massad told
reporters in a conference call. When “ millions of
modifications” by the industry are taken into account, “it is
having a real impact on the ground,” he said.  HAMP’s premise is that lenders have an incentive to reduce
a borrower’s payments to prevent a foreclosure because they
usually recover only a fraction of the value of a mortgage when
they seize a home.  Sweetener  Through HAMP, “Treasury attempted to sweeten this deal by
offering incentive payments to all parties to a mortgage loan
modification,” the panel reported. “Yet despite the apparent
strength of HAMP’s economic logic, the program has failed to
help the vast majority of homeowners facing foreclosure.”  Companies that manage mortgage loans can profit from
foreclosure-related fees and are reluctant to participate in the
Treasury program, the report found. In addition, many borrowers
have second mortgages from lenders who might profit by blocking
a loan modification. Pooling and servicing agreements that
govern securitized mortgages might also limit servicers’ ability
to modify loans.  “Mortgages are, in practice, far more complicated than a
one-to-one relationship between borrower and lender,” the panel
found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 