-- U.S. Economy: Sales, Small-Business Optimism Climb
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-12-14T21:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/u-s-retail-sales-rise-more-than-economists-forecast-as-consumers-recover.html
Sales at U.S. retailers increased
more than forecast in November and optimism among small
businesses rose to a three-year high, signaling the economy was
gaining momentum as the holiday season began.  The 0.8 percent  gain  in purchases followed a 1.7 percent
jump in October that was larger than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. The
National Federation of Independent Business’s  sentiment gauge 
rose by 1.5 points to 93.2, the highest since December 2007, as
more companies projected sales will grow.  Treasury securities fell as the figures confirmed a
yearend-sales rebound at retailers like  Target Corp.  and Macy’s
Inc. Federal Reserve policy makers today said the pace of
economic growth was not enough to lower  unemployment , one reason
why they will maintain the expansion of record stimulus.  “There’s no question this will be the strongest quarter
for consumer spending since before the recession,” said  Chris Low , chief economist at FTN Financial in New York, who correctly
forecast the increase in sales. “The economy has pretty good
momentum going into the new year.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note reached
3.46 percent, the highest level since May. The yield was at 3.44
percent at 4:14 p.m. in New York, compared with 3.28 percent
late yesterday. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.1 percent
to 1,241.59 at the 4 p.m. close, restrained by the surge in
interest rates.  Data for GDP  The  median  forecast of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 0.6 percent rise in retail sales. Estimates
ranged from gains of 0.2 percent to 1.5 percent. Excluding
autos, gasoline and building materials, which are the figures
used to calculate gross domestic product, sales climbed 0.9
percent, the most since August.  The central bank’s Federal Open Market Committee said today
that unemployment was too high, repeated its pledge to leave the
benchmark interest rate low for an “extended period” and
retained a $600 billion bond-purchase program through June.  “The economic recovery is continuing, though at a rate
that has been insufficient to bring down unemployment,” the Fed
statement said. “Household spending is increasing at a moderate
pace, but remains constrained by high unemployment, modest
income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit.”  Wholesale Costs Climb  A report from the Labor Department today also showed
wholesale costs rose in November by the most in eight months,
led by higher prices for gasoline, heating oil and fruit. The
producer price index increased 0.8 percent from the prior month
after a 0.4 percent rise.  The so-called core measure, which  excludes  more volatile
food and energy costs, rose 1.2 percent from November 2009, the
smallest year-over-year gain in five months and matching
forecasts.  “Businesses still lack the pricing power to pass on higher
commodity costs,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “Measures
of inflation are still too low for comfort.”  Eight of 13 major categories in the retail sales report
showed increases last month. Sales at general merchandise stores
climbed 1.3 percent, the most since October 2009, and purchases
at non-store retailers, which include Internet merchants,
advanced 2.1 percent, the biggest gain of the year.  Weak Spot  Electronics and appliances stores were among retailers that
showed weakness last month as sales fell 0.6 percent. Best Buy,
the world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer, reported a
4.4 percent decline in third-quarter profit as U.S. sales
dropped more than expected. The Richfield, Minnesota-based
company said today sales at stores open for at least 14 months
sank 5 percent on weaker demand for televisions and
entertainment products.  Retailers began cutting prices earlier in November than the
past few years and continued through Black Friday, the day after
Thanksgiving. Sales at stores open at least a year climbed by
the most in eight months from November 2009, industry reports
showed.  Target and Costco Wholesale Corp. led the sales gains for
discounters last month, while teen retailer Abercrombie & Fitch
Co. and department stores Macy’s and J.C. Penney Co. also posted
better-than-forecast increases.  Raising Forecast  Today, the International Council of Shopping Centers
revised its November-December holiday-season sales forecast up
by 0.5 percentage point to a range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent,
citing “the strong November performance and promising trends in
early December.”  Purchases are broadening out beyond holiday gifts and
clothing. Home Depot Inc., the world’s largest home-improvement
retailer, lifted its full-year profit forecast on stronger
fourth-quarter demand for plumbing and electrical items and
Christmas trees.  “As we look at November into December, we see strength
across the store,” Chief Financial Officer Carol Tome said Dec.
8 by telephone from an analysts’ meeting in Boston. The Atlanta-
based company had a “terrific Black Friday.”  The National Retail Federation has forecast the November-
December holiday sales gain will be the biggest since 2006. A
Bloomberg survey taken Dec. 2 to Dec. 8 showed economists raised
2011 projections for consumer purchases, the biggest part of the
economy, to 2.6 percent from 2.3 percent estimated last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  