-- U.S., Canada, Netherlands Tell Citizens to Leave Ivory Coast Amid Crisis
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-14T18:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/u-s-canada-netherlands-tell-citizens-to-leave-ivory-coast-amid-crisis.html
Citizens of the U.S., Canada and the
Netherlands were advised to leave  Ivory Coast  as political
tension increases following the disputed Nov. 28 presidential
election.  The U.S. embassy in Abidjan, the commercial capital, urged
Americans to go “on holiday travel early in order to remain
safe,” according to a statement published on its website today.
The Canadian embassy published a similar warning, while the
Dutch consulate advised citizens to leave “now that it is still
possible.”  Ivory Coast’s electoral commission named opposition leader
 Alassane Ouattara  the winner of last month’s vote. A day later,
on Dec. 3, the Constitutional Council proclaimed incumbent
president  Laurent Gbagbo  the victor, after annulling the vote in
several northern regions amid claims of irregularities.  The United Nations, the European Union and the African
Union all recognize Ouattara as the new president. The UN
peacekeeping mission in Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest cocoa
producer, evacuated about 500 non-essential staff last week.  Rival security forces clashed outside the Golf Hotel in
Abidjan yesterday after those loyal to Gbagbo blocked the main
route to the facility that Ouattara has been using as his
headquarters.  Ouattara’s opposition group called on Ivorians to join
action planned for Dec. 16 and 17 that will see them attempt to
install a new head of the state-controled  broadcaster  and hold a
meeting at government offices.  Ivory Coast citizens should “engage a peaceful and
democratic action to install the legitimate and legal
authorities,” according to a statement e-mailed by  Alphonse Djedje Mady , a spokesman for the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 