-- U.S. Stocks Advance as Retail Sales Increase Offsets Surge in Bond Yields
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-14T22:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-before-fed-meeting-amgen-shares-gain.html
U.S. stocks rose, rebounding in the
final minutes of trading, as data showing retail sales beat
estimates helped equities withstand a surge in Treasury yields.  AT&T Inc., Kraft Foods Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc.
rallied at least 1.6 percent to lead gains in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average.  American International Group Inc.  jumped 6.7
percent after Chairman  Steve Miller  told Bloomberg Television
that he’s encouraged about the insurer’s prospects for regaining
independence from the U.S. government. Banks retreated.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  advanced 0.1 percent to
1,241.59 at 4 p.m. in New York, erasing a 0.2 percent loss in
the last 20 minutes of the day. The Dow gained 47.98 points, or
0.4 percent, to 11,476.54. Yields on 10-year Treasuries surged
as much as 0.22 percentage point to 3.49 percent after the
Federal Reserve said the U.S. recovery is continuing and
maintained a $600 billion program of debt purchases.  “It was the appropriate decision,” said  Bruce McCain , who
oversees $25 billion as chief investment strategist at the
private-banking unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland. “They need to
keep the program. They cannot back off. It wouldn’t be the
proper answer, given the moderate pace of growth that we’re
seeing. I do see room for the stock rally to go further into
next year.”  Longest Since July  The S&P 500 climbed for the sixth straight day, the longest
winning streak since July. The index has risen 19 percent since
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated on Aug. 27 that he was
considering pumping more cash into financial markets through
bond purchases. The Fed announced after its November meeting
that it would buy $600 billion in Treasuries.  U.S. equity benchmarks pared gains after the Fed statement
as Treasuries slid, sending 10-year yields to the highest level
since May, amid concern the increase in bond yields will lead to
higher borrowing costs. Ten-year Treasury yields increased as
much as 0.22 percentage point to 3.49 percent.  “The U.S. Treasury market is getting hammered,” said
 Peter Boockvar , equity strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New
York. “For the first time in this multiyear experiment on the
part of the Fed, the bond market has taken over and has pushed
back against the Fed’s goal of keeping interest rates low. Stock
investors have to learn to start paying attention to it.”  Stock futures gained in premarket trading after Commerce
Department figures showed that purchases at U.S. retailers
increased 0.8 percent, following a 1.7 percent gain in October.
The  median  forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 0.6 percent rise. Separately, the Labor Department
said that the producer price index increased 0.8 percent from
the prior month.  Excluding  more volatile food and energy costs,
it was the smallest year-over-year gain in five months at 1.2
percent.  ‘Improving’  “The economic environment is improving,” said  Stephen Wood , the New York-based chief market strategist for Russell
Investments, which manages $149.3 billion. “However, it’s too
early for the Federal Reserve to change anything in terms of
policy. Follow the Fed or fight the Fed at your own peril.”  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, advanced 2 percent to
$29.34. Kraft, the world’s second-biggest food company, rallied
1.7 percent to $31.39. Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone
company, rose 1.6 percent to $34.67.  AIG  had the biggest gain in the S&P 500, jumping 6.7
percent to $51.77. Chairman  Steve Miller  said the success of the
U.S. selling stakes in Citigroup Inc. and General Motors Co.
signals the Treasury will be able to divest its AIG holdings.  Converting Stake  The Treasury Department, which invested more than $49
billion to prop up AIG, plans to convert its preferred stake
into common stock by March 15 and will sell the shares to
private investors. The department sold  $10.5 billion  of
Citigroup shares last week and received $13.6 billion from last
month’s offering of General Motors shares.  “Those are good precedents, which give increased
confidence,” Miller said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan .”  Amgen Inc.  jumped 4.9 percent to $56.76. The biotechnology
company’s denosumab delayed the spread of prostate cancer to
men’s bones in a study that may boost sales of the drug by $2
billion a year.  Financials had the biggest decline in the S&P 500 among 10
industries, slumping 0.9 percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. retreated 1.7 percent to $40.79.
Citigroup Inc. dropped 2.5 percent to $4.69.  Huntington Bancshares Inc. slumped 5.4 percent to $6.30.
The Columbus, Ohio-based bank said it priced an offering of
about 146 million shares of its common stock at $6.30 a share.  Best Buy Plunges  Best Buy Co.  plunged 15 percent, the most since August
2002, to $35.52. The world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer slashed its annual profit forecast amid increasing
competition from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp.  Wal-Mart rose 0.4 percent to $54.45, and Target climbed 0.5
percent to $59.08.  Bearish option trades on the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust rose to
the highest in a month after a single bet that the exchange-
traded fund tracking the U.S. stock benchmark index will slide
this week.  Volume for puts to sell the ETF exceeded 1.5 million
contracts as of 4 p.m., with about a fifth of put volume
concentrated in a single “butterfly” trade that profits if the
fund loses about 1.5 percent from yesterday’s close by the end
of the week and makes the most if it drops at least 3.7 percent.
Volume for puts was 1.5 times the four-week average and double
the number of calls to buy.  “It’s a cheap bet on the SPY trading down at some point
before week’s end,” said Etai Friedman, head derivatives trader
at MKM Partners LP in Stamford, Connecticut, referring to the
ETF by its ticker symbol. The trade cost about $2 million to
enter and has a potential payoff of as much as $22 million,
Friedman said. “It’s a notably large trade but doesn’t have a
lot of risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 