-- Huffington Post to Turn First Annual Profit, Targets Threefold Sales Gain
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/huffington-post-nears-first-annual-profit-expects-sales-to-triple-by-2012.html
The Huffington Post, the news site
that began in 2005, will post its first annual profit this year
and aims to keep sales rising as it turns readers into pundits,
founder  Arianna Huffington  said in an interview.  The site has grown to more than 26 million unique monthly
visitors since being started by Huffington, a Greek-born,
Cambridge-educated author. Almost 4 million of them weigh in
with their own views and reactions to news stories each month.  “People don’t want just to consume news,” Huffington, 60,
said in an interview at her New York City headquarters. “They
want to share it, they want to advance it, and add to it.”  The Huffington Post  aims to more than triple its sales to
$100 million in 2012 from $30 million this year, according to a
person close to the company who declined to be identified. The
site is benefiting as newspapers and magazines lose readers and
advertisers to the more interactive experience of Web services.  “We’re profitable despite the fact we’re investing a lot
in growing,” Huffington said, declining to comment on revenue.
She also said the venture-capital-funded company isn’t rushing
to be bought, even as potential buyers have expressed interest.  Each day, the Huffington Post aggregates about 300 stories
from other publications, publishes a similar number of original
stories and about the same number of original blog posts,
according to Mario Ruiz, a spokesman. It has 97 full-time
editorial staffers and 203 employees in total.  The site trails the New York Times, which had 34.6 million
Web visitors last month, while beating online-only rivals  the
Daily Beast  and the Drudge Report, which had 3.7 million and 1.7
million visitors, respectively, according to ComScore Inc.  Criticism Diminishing  Respect for the news aggregation model is growing after
first being derided by traditional print media, said Huffington,
the site’s editor-in-chief. "The view is changing," she said.  In September, three newspaper companies,  Washington Post
Co. , New York Times Co. and  Gannett Co.  began working on their
own aggregation venture. The companies have invested $12 million
in Ongo Inc., a Silicon Valley startup that’s building a service
that will aggregate news and allow readers to share stories.  Some other publishers look to the Huffington Post to
benefit from aggregation.  Gary Pruitt , Chief Executive Officer
of McClatchy Co., said he likes the traffic that the Huffington
Post and others send to his company’s websites. He said the
publisher of Miami Herald doesn’t plan to become an aggregator.  Huffington said her site has “strict ground rules” for
aggregating and linking back to the respective news website.
“That’s why we get tons of requests every day from newspapers
and other sites, asking us to link to their work,” she said.  Original content, which includes items from guest bloggers
such as politicians and executives, is increasing, she said.  Social ‘Understanding’  As an example of how social news work, a Dec. 8 blog about
 Sarah Palin  written for the Huffington Post by screenwriter
 Aaron Sorkin  has been viewed by at least 708,849 people, shared
with others 24,243 times, and generated 7,731 comments.  “They understand how users find interesting news stories
based on what their friends are reading,”  Sheryl Sandberg ,
Facebook Inc.’s chief operating officer, said in an interview.
“They have a really good understanding of how social
functionality can enhance the news experience.”  In a loft-style newsroom in New York’s Soho district, the
Huffington Post staff manages the site’s coverage sections.
Huffington, a veteran commentator who rose to prominence
supporting conservative politics and then switched to more
liberal views, started the site as a political forum. As her
traffic grew through the 2008 election, she expanded to sports,
business, entertainment, travel, and areas such as  divorce .  Worth $450 Million?  The company’s revenue comes from advertising sales and
event sponsorship, Huffington said. The company has no plans to
charge access fees and no interest in expanding to print
publishing. A similar site, the Daily Beast, owned by
IAC/InterActiveCorp, merged with Newsweek magazine last month.  Much of the Huffington Post’s sales growth will come from
“social marketing,” a form of advertising that lets marketers
engage directly with consumers of social news, CEO  Eric Hippeau 
said in an interview. He said the company had a profit last
quarter and will be profitable for the full year.  “With such positive momentum, HuffPo can stay its course
and grow organically or it can merge with or acquire someone,”
said  Shahid Khan , chairman and chief strategist at MediaMorph
Inc., a New York-based digital media-tracking service. “Its
current valuation is in the $300 million to $450 million range,
which makes it too rich for a small player to acquire. This
means that the only exit options are an IPO or acquisition by a
larger media conglomerate.”  The company has raised about $35 million, and most of the
last round of $25 million, led by  Oak Investment Partners , is in
the bank, according to Huffington. She said she and the co-
founder of the company, New York-based angel investor  Ken Lerer ,
together raised an initial $2 million. The company declined to
say how much of its equity is controlled by Huffington.  Huffington said that even though suitors are calling,
investors aren’t pressing the company to sell.  “It’s working. Everybody’s happy with how it’s going,”
she said. “Nobody is in a hurry to cash out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  