-- TUI Earnings Boosted by Profit at Hapag-Lloyd as Focus Switches to Tourism
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-12-14T16:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/tui-says-profit-at-the-hapag-lloyd-shipping-line-boosts-full-year-result.html
TUI AG , the German owner of Europe’s
largest travel company, said profit at Hapag-Lloyd boosted its
full-year operating result as the company prepares to sell the
rest of its stake in the shipping line.  Hapag contributed 150 million euros ($201 million) to net
income compared with a loss of 174 million euros a year earlier,
Hanover, Germany-based TUI  said  today. Profit in the year
through September fell 40 percent to 102 million euros, or 30
cents a share, as the prior-year figures included a 1.1 billion-
euro gain on the sale of a majority stake in the container line.  TUI sold about 57 percent of Hapag to a Hamburg-based group
of investors last year. It aims to sell the remainder to focus
on building its position as Europe’s largest holiday provider.
TUI has asked banks to prepare an initial public offering of
Hapag or to seek industry or financial investors.  “The good Hapag-Lloyd figures and the prospective for a
sale of the unit are driving the share price,” said  Sebastian Hein , an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in Dusseldorf.  TUI rose 48 cents, or 5.1 percent, to 9.83 euros in
Frankfurt today, the highest price since November 2008 and the
biggest percentage advance since July 8. The gain was the
biggest in Germany’s  MDAX index  of medium-sized companies.  The company sees a “favorable time window” to sell its
remaining stake in Hapag-Lloyd, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Frenzel  said at a press conference in Hanover today.  Sale Preparation  TUI and Albert Ballin GmbH, the Hamburg investors group,
will instruct Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Greenhill & Co. Inc. and
Credit Suisse Group AG to prepare the sale of the Hapag-Lloyd
stake, the partners said Dec. 7. TUI’s share in the shipping
line will still rise to 49.8 percent by the end of the year
because of refinancing measures.  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization from
continuing operations were 216 million euros in the year,
compared with a 1 million-euro loss a year earlier.  TUI said it expects profit and sales to rise this financial
year as it attracts more customers and raises prices. The year
has “started off well,” Frenzel said.  Revenue from continuing operations last year was 16.4
billion euros, down 1.5 percent on the prior year’s 16.6 billion
euros. All sales and earnings figures are for the 12-month
period through September this year and last year as the company
in 2009 reported for a shortened 9-month fiscal year.  Russian Expansion  TUI Travel Plc said this month that its full-year loss
widened to 104 million pounds ($165 million) after the company
reduced capacity and as bookings slowed following airspace
closures caused by the eruption of a volcano in Iceland.  TUI plans to expand its business in Russia, where it aims
to become a market leader in the “medium term,” Frenzel said.
Expansion is also planned in India, China and Brazil.  The company has sold assets worth 325 million euros, mostly
after the current fiscal year started, TUI said. The disposals
include some hotels as well as Hapag-Lloyd’s corporate
headquarters in Hamburg. Net debt was 2.29 billion euros as of
Sept. 30, down 1.8 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  