-- Hungarian Lawmakers Approve Pension-Fund Overhaul as EU Nears Debt Deal
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-12-14T06:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/hungarian-lawmakers-approve-pension-fund-overhaul-as-eu-nears-debt-deal.html
Hungarian lawmakers yesterday backed
a government bill that may force most of the 3 trillion forint
($14.5 billion) in private pension fund portfolios to move to
the state as the Cabinet works to reduce public debt.  The bill strips citizens who fail to move their private-
pension fund assets to the budget of a state pension. Lawmakers
late yesterday approved the bill by a vote of 250 to 58 with 43
abstentions, according to parliament’s website.  Hungary is rolling back pension changes implemented more
than a decade ago as countries from Poland to Lithuania find
themselves squeezed by policies designed to limit long-term
liabilities by shifting workers into private funds. Now the cost
is swelling debt and  deficit  levels at a time when the European
Union is demanding greater fiscal discipline.  "This experiment resulted in the country getting indebted
over its head and the transfer of huge amounts to private
pension funds," Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said in a Facebook
video message on the eve of the vote.  The European Commission agreed with Poland that the burden
of shifting payments to private funds will be “taken into
account,” Polish Deputy Finance Minister  Ludwik Kotecki  said on
Dec. 10.  "What we are doing is to make it more explicit that we will
be flexible when carrying out these assessments,"  Amadeu Altafaj , spokesman for  Olli Rehn , the EU’s economic and monetary
affairs chief, said in Brussels yesterday. "If this reassures
member states we are definitely willing to do so."  Excessive Deficit Procedure  The new rules would be applied during the EU’s excessive
deficit procedure, which sanctions countries that breach the
limit for budget shortfalls, the Warsaw-based Finance Ministry
said in a statement on its website yesterday.  The  Stabilitas Penztarszovetseg , a lobby group for private
pension funds in Hungary, has said it will file a motion to the
Constitutional Court to invalidate the pension law, saying it
violates human dignity and European norms.  The Socialist Party, the biggest opposition party, will
compensate those who stay as private pension fund members “when
it has the chance” and restore their rights to state pensions,
MTI news service reported, citing lawmaker Jozsef Tobias.  The government plans to use funds to pay current state
pensions and reduce debt while meeting a pledge to cut the
budget deficit to less than the EU limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product next year from a targeted 3.8 percent this
year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  