-- United Continental CEO Smisek Sees `Significant Progress' in Integration
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-14T06:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/united-continental-ceo-smisek-sees-significant-progress-in-integration.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. 
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek  said the company had made
“significant progress” as it integrates operations following
an October combination that created the world’s largest airline.  The carrier has reached accord with  Continental Airlines
Inc.  ground workers and mechanics, and is “hopeful” of soon
getting an agreement with cabin crew after a previous deal was
rejected, Smisek said in an interview today in Queenstown, New
Zealand. Advanced talks with pilots are also under way, he said,
while attending a meeting of Star Alliance carriers.  “We are making considerable progress,” he said. “The
synergies we projected are very much on track.”  United Continental, formed through UAL Corp.’s takeover of
Continental, expects to achieve $1.2 billion in savings and
revenue gains through the combination, Smisek reiterated. The
Chicago-based company will continue to fly as two separate
brands for at least another 12 months until U.S. regulators
grant clearance for it to operate as a single airline, he said.  The integration of the two airlines’ frequent-flyer
programs has begun and may take a year, Smisek said. The company
is also working with airports worldwide to position flights at
neighboring gates, he said. Work the airlines did prior to the
combination through their membership of the Star Alliance has
helped in this regard, he said.  Inflight Catering  The company will continue to use Continental’s Chelsea
inflight catering unit, while also using other suppliers, Smisek
said.  “How much volume we use through them will depend on
cost,” he said.  The $3.47 billion all-stock merger, which combined the
number 3 and number 4 U.S. carriers, was completed on Oct. 1.
United leapfrogged Delta Air Lines Inc. to become the world’s
biggest carrier following the deal.  The new company had $29 billion in combined revenue last
year, operating 700 jets in its main fleets and employing more
than 87,000 workers.  United Continental’s integration is being advised by Bain &
Co., the consultant that Atlanta-based Delta used to mesh
operations with Northwest Airlines Corp. starting in October
2008, a process that took about 1 1/2 years to complete.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Queenstown, New Zealand at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  