-- MTV Music Meter Scans Social Media Websites for Up-and-Coming Rock Stars
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-12-14T17:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/mtv-music-meter-scans-social-media-sites-for-rising-rock-stars.html
Viacom Inc. ’s MTV is starting a Web
service to showcase up-and-coming bands as the cable channel
adds online and mobile features to fend off Vevo.com and News
Corp.’s MySpace.  MTV Music Meter , a service that scans social networks for
bands generating an increasing number of comments, is available
starting today, Dermot McCormack, who oversees digital
operations at MTV Networks, said yesterday in an interview.  “We want to re-associate and new-associate the MTV brand
with music,” McCormack said. “This is aimed at finding those
artists who are rising fast in the social-media conversation.”  A version for devices using  Google Inc. ’s Android software
and  Apple Inc. ’s iPad and iPhone will be available by the end of
January, McCormack said. Music Meter provides music videos and
30-second samples of tracks. Full songs can be purchased at the
site and MTV is working with  Rhapsody International Inc.  to
provide full tracks in the near future, McCormack said. Internet
radio will be added in a subsequent edition, he said. Clicking a
“similar” button provides a list of related bands.  The channel is working with “one or two big brands” on
sponsoring the site, McCormack said, without providing
specifics. Ads during the first two months will be limited, he
said. Companies will be able to associate with a particular
genre or place ads next to a particular style of music. With the
mobile version, companies may provide coupons or other
promotions to users based on their location, he said.  Music Roots  MTV began in 1981, one of the first cable channels to air
music videos. During the past 10 years, it provided fewer tunes
as it shifted to episodic programming such as “The Real World”
and “16 and Pregnant.” The reversion to its roots in music
began last year when the channel started an Internet version of
its “Unplugged” concert series.  Vevo.com , a collaboration of  Vivendi SA ’s Universal Music
Group and Sony Corp.’s music division, is challenging MTV online
with music videos. MySpace Chief Executive Officer  Mike Jones 
shifted the site in October to focus on entertainment and has
started online and mobile music products.  Viacom, based in New York and controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose 4 cents to $39.30 at 12:39 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The Class B shares had  gained  32
percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  