-- Vallejo's Bankruptcy `Failure' Scares Cities Into Cutting Costs
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/vallejo-s-california-bankruptcy-failure-scares-cities-into-cost-cutting.html
When  Vallejo , California, filed for
bankruptcy in 2008 after failing to win union pay cuts,
Councilwoman  Stephanie Gomes  said officials around the U.S.
would have their eyes trained on the city of 120,000.  She was right. The lesson they’ve taken from the two-year-
old case, which has cost Vallejo $9.5 million in legal fees and
made it a nationwide symbol for distressed municipal finances,
is that out-of-court negotiations yield better results.  “They spent a lot of money with very little outcome,”
said  Jay Goldstone , San Diego’s chief operating officer. Faced
with an $82 million deficit in his city’s 2010 budget, Goldstone
negotiated pay cuts and higher  benefit contributions  from unions
in 2009 that will save as much as $40 million annually, he said.  Bankruptcy has become less attractive even as U.S.
municipal borrowers coped with what the  National League of
Cities  said was the biggest decline in general-fund revenue
since 1986 last fiscal year. The mention of Vallejo, the biggest
California city and second-largest local government after Orange
County to file for bankruptcy, can spook investors and raise
interest costs, said  Bill Lockyer , the state’s treasurer.  “Declaring bankruptcy is a huge admission of failure on
the part of elected officials and their local managers,”
Lockyer said in a Dec. 3 telephone interview. Vallejo’s filing
“sent a chill through the markets.”
      Vallejo,  a one-time Navy town 32 miles (51 kilometers)
north of San Francisco, entered  Chapter 9  bankruptcy protection
in May 2008. The filing, after employee unions refused to accept
salary cuts and the recession eroded tax revenue, allows
municipalities to reorganize debt rather than liquidate.  Exit Plan  A five-year budget blueprint approved by the City Council
on Nov. 30 spells out how Vallejo will meet $195 million of
unfunded pension obligations, its largest liability. It also
delays payments to bondholders, trims employee benefits, creates
a rainy-day fund and allocates $5 million for unsecured
creditors. The city must submit a bankruptcy-exit plan that
includes the blueprint to a Sacramento court by Jan. 18.  Vallejo shows that negotiated settlements of budget
problems may be better than the distractions of court deadlines
and paying millions in legal fees, said  Paul Rosenstiel ,
California’s deputy treasurer from 2007 to 2009.  “A lot of cities looked at Vallejo and concluded that
painful as it might be, there must be a better solution,” said
Rosenstiel, a principal with municipal-bond underwriter  De La
Rosa & Co.  in San Francisco.  Felt in Tracy  The Vallejo bankruptcy resonates in Tracy, a city of about
82,000 residents 60 miles east of San Francisco, said  Zane Johnston , the finance director.  In the face of a $7.5 million budget gap, the police union
agreed this year to cancel remaining raises and boost the
retirement age to 55 from 50 for new hires even though its
contract wasn’t up for renewal, Johnston said in a Dec. 6
telephone interview.  “At the bargaining table,” he said, “Vallejo is the
example that everybody knows about that doesn’t have to be
mentioned because it can scare the living daylights out of some
people.”  The ability of U.S. cities to file bankruptcy is limited.
They must be authorized by state law to file under Chapter 9 of
the  U.S. bankruptcy code . Twenty-five states lack such statutes.  While cities from Detroit to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, have
publicly raised the prospect, the number of filings has
declined. Five municipal entities sought protection this year
compared with 10 in 2009, according to data compiled by  James Spiotto , head of the bankruptcy practice at Chapman & Cutler, a
Chicago law firm. The biggest this year was a South Carolina
toll road with more than $300 million in debt, he said.  Company Contrast  Since 1937, 619 local government bodies, mostly small
utility or sewer districts, have filed for bankruptcy, according
to Spiotto. In contrast, there were more than 11,000 Chapter 11
filings, used by companies to reorganize debt, in 2009 alone.  Local-government bankruptcies will “be minimal and
isolated to mismanaged or weak credits,”  BlackRock Inc. , the
world’s largest money manager, told clients on Dec. 7. States
such as Pennsylvania and Rhode Island have become increasingly
active in helping prevent them, it said.  When Harrisburg, the state capital, was weighing a Chapter
9 filing because it couldn’t make $282 million of payments on
bonds it guaranteed for a trash incinerator, Governor  Ed Rendell 
stepped in. Warning that a default by the city of 47,000 could
raise borrowing costs elsewhere, Rendell advanced $3.3 million
to Harrisburg for a general-obligation debt payment on Sept. 13.  “We couldn’t stand by and let the city default on these
bonds,” Rendell said at the time.  State Program  Pennsylvania is considering Harrisburg’s application to the
state’s distressed municipalities program, under which it would
get help with a recovery plan that finds ways to raise revenue
and streamline operations.  BlackRock cited new legislation in Rhode Island prohibiting
Chapter 9 filings after the city of Central Falls suggested that
path. The town of about 18,000 faced a fiscal 2010 deficit of $3
million, or 17 percent of revenue.  States “will quickly put procedures in place geared toward
preventing Chapter 9 filings,” it said in its report.  State oversight boards were created for New York City in
the mid-1970s and Philadelphia in 1991. They can bring cities
back to an “adult state,” said Spiotto, by requiring balanced
budgets, reviewing labor contracts and negotiating debt
restructurings.  “We’ve had all sorts of municipalities with problems that
were addressed outside of bankruptcy,” said Spiotto.  Bondholder Action  If states don’t act, bondholders will. In September, Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. got a judge to appoint a receiver to
manage the Jefferson County, Alabama, sewer system after a $3.2
billion debt refinancing collapsed and drove the municipality
toward insolvency. Local officials, who are negotiating with
bondholders, say a bankruptcy is still possible.  Vallejo made its filing as labor costs, its  largest
expense , were projected to be about $79.4 million in the 2008-
2009 fiscal year, outpacing estimated net general-fund revenue
of about $77.9 million, according to court documents.  “Vallejo’s problem was that they could make no further
cuts without breaking legal contracts,” Michael Coleman, a
fiscal policy adviser at the  League of California Cities , said
in a telephone interview Dec. 6. “That’s unique to virtually
any other city in California.”  Vallejo had no other options,  Marc Levinson , a partner with
the Sacramento-based law firm Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP
who is drafting Vallejo’s bankruptcy-exit plan, said in a Dec. 3
telephone interview.  Lack of Concessions  “Negotiations broke down and we couldn’t get the
concessions from the unions and from the bondholders that would
keep us out of bankruptcy,” Levinson said.  The city has reached agreements with administrative and
police unions that yielded $6 million in savings through June
2010, its  website  says. The firefighters union agreed to a new
contract that was approved by the council in March.  Vallejo still has to sort out more than 1,000 creditor
claims as part of its exit plan. And funding of $5 million for
unsecured creditors won’t be completed until the 2012-2013
fiscal year.  The bankruptcy process could take another six months,
further distracting local officials, said  Christopher Mier, 
chief strategist with Loop Capital Markets LLC in Chicago.  Meanwhile, city residents will have 159 fewer fire and
police personnel than seven years ago, road maintenance at 10
percent of recommended levels and no grants for arts and
cultural programs.  “Bankruptcy hasn’t been a panacea for the city or the
unions,” said  Ron Oliner , a partner at Duane Morris LLP in San
Francisco who represents Vallejo’s police union.  Gomes, the  council member , said the city learned a lesson.  “It’s best to negotiate your way out of the fiscal
problem,” she said, “before you go into bankruptcy.”  The case is In re City of Vallejo, 08-26813, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 