-- Venezuela Central Bank Said to Boost Dollar Bond Sales, Supply Importers
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-12-14T20:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/venezuela-central-bank-said-to-boost-dollar-bond-sales-to-supply-importers.html
Venezuela’s central bank plans to
step up sales of dollar-denominated bonds it holds to become the
main provider of foreign currency to importers next year, a
government official said.  Banco Central de Venezuela will sell as much as $40 million
a day of government and state oil company bonds to supply the
Sitme currency market for at least the first three months of the
year, said the official, who asked not to be identified because
he isn’t authorized to speak publicly. The government in June
ordered commercial banks to sell their dollar-denominated bonds
to supply Sitme.  President  Hugo Chavez  tightened controls to stem capital
flight in May and imposed new rules on currency transactions in
January that limited the sale of dollars. The central bank’s
plan signals that dollar supplies are strained and that the
government will need to issue more bonds to avoid running out of
the U.S. currency, said  Milton Guzman , an economist at Caracas-
based consulting firm Fortuny Guzman & Asociados.  “Sitme needs the government to keep selling bonds to feed
the system, and we may even see the government buy back bonds to
resell in the market,” Guzman said today in a phone interview.
“The central bank should have enough to supply the market
through March.”  Bond Transactions  One of the ways the government supplies dollars to
importers is by allowing them to buy dollar-denominated debt
with bolivars in the Sitme system and then get dollars by
selling the securities overseas. Sitme has traded $4.66 billion
of bonds since June 9, when the market was created, at an
average exchange rate of 5.3 per dollar.  The market traded $78.5 million of securities today, the
second-highest amount since the market was opened, including
$32.5 million of the government’s benchmark bonds due in 2027.  Yields on the 9.25 percent bonds maturing in 2027 fell 20
basis points to 13.12 percent at 3:28 p.m. in New York,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The price rose 1 cent on the
dollar to 74 cents.  The central bank will now be the main supplier of dollars
into Sitme and will buy all $2 billion of bonds that  Petroleos
de Venezuela SA  plans to sell by the end of the year, the
official in Caracas said yesterday.  Barclays Capital estimates that the bank holds about $3.5
billion of dollar-denominated bonds that could be used to feed
the currency market.  Bolivar Devaluation  Chavez, who devalued the bolivar as much as 50 percent in
January, created a multi-tiered exchange system where some
companies are able to buy dollars at 2.6 or 4.3 bolivars per
dollar. Companies that don’t get government approval to buy
dollars at those rates can use Sitme to buy up to $50,000 a day.  A black market also exists where individuals pay as much as
8.4 bolivars per dollar on the street.  The Foreign Exchange Board, known as Cadivi, handles dollar
sales at 2.6 and 4.3 per dollar, which are made to companies
that import food, medicine and other goods deemed important by
the government. Cadivi has approved sales of $33.4 billion this
year, or about $123.1 million a day, according to an  e-mailed
statement  sent yesterday.  Multi-national companies waiting to repatriate dividends
from Venezuela won’t be able to do so through Sitme and will
have to wait for Cadivi to approve their requests, the official
said.  Sitme Funds  While Sitme only supplies funds for about a quarter of the
imports into the country, the market has helped the country
avoid shortages,  Bret Rosen , Latin America debt strategist at
Standard Chartered Bank in New York, said. The concern among
investors, Rosen said, is that the government and PDVSA will
continue to sell bonds to manage foreign-exchange needs.  “We’ve had several multi-billion dollar issues that have
prime rationale to feed foreign exchange market,” Rosen said in
a phone interview. “That continued supply risk is part of the
reason that Venezuelan spreads have remained elevated.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan
government bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 24 basis
points, or 0.24 percentage point, to 1,039 at 3:28 p.m. New York
time, according to JPMorgan & Chase Co. That’s the highest
spread among emerging market countries.  The government and PDVSA have sold a combined $7.6 billion
of bonds this year to meet demand for dollars and their own
financing needs. Local investors buy the securities in bolivars
and sell them abroad to obtain foreign currency.  Barclays forecasts that the government and PDVSA will sell
a total of $10 billion of bonds in 2011 and devalue the three
fixed exchange rates by 15 percent, according to a research
report dated Dec. 1 by  Alejandro Grisanti  and  Alejandro Arreaza .  The decision to devalue the exchange rates is a policy
decision and isn’t strictly due to a misaligned currency, Morgan
Stanley’s  Daniel Volberg  said in a phone interview.  “Sitme has played the role of relieving some of the most
acute pressures for dollar demand,” Volberg, Morgan Stanley’s
Latin America economist, said by phone from New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  