-- Chavez Says He Plans to Order Increase in Venezuela's 12% Value-Added Tax
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-12-14T19:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/venezuela-s-chavez-says-he-will-impose-value-added-tax-increase.html
Venezuela President  Hugo Chavez  will
request decree powers from the National Assembly for 12 months
to fast-track legislation, including an increase in the
country’s value-added tax.  The decree powers would cover nine areas including
infrastructure, housing, finance and taxes, defense,
international cooperation and the nation’s socio-economic
system, Vice President  Elias Jaua  said today in comments carried
by state television. The government plans to start issuing
decrees in the next two weeks, Jaua said.  Chavez said last night he will order an increase in the 12
percent VAT to finance housing and infrastructure projects after
rains left 130,000 homeless and affected as many as 500,000
people. The government collects 5 billion bolivars ($1.16
billion) for every percentage point the tax is increased, he
said in comments on state television. He didn’t say how large an
increase he would enact.  “The request has been made for 12 months to shape laws
necessary to address the deep crisis born of a structural cause
that keeps the population poor and has been aggravated by a
climate phenomenon,” Jaua said.  Chavez said the country’s value-added tax “is one of the
world’s lowest” and that the effect of the increase on
inflation would be minimal. The 56-year-old leader, who is
seeking such powers for the fourth time in his 12 years in
office, is set to face greater opposition in congress starting
Jan. 5 after losing his two-thirds majority in September
elections.  VAT Increase  The government raised the value-added tax by 3 percentage
points last year after cutting it to 9 percent in 2007 in a bid
to slow inflation, offset a plunge in oil prices and boost the
purchasing power of Venezuelans.  Barclays Capital said on Dec. 2 that investors should
increase exposure to Venezuelan debt as the government prepares
to devalue the currency and raise taxes to improve its fiscal
position before presidential elections in 2012.      Chavez’s
administration may raise the VAT to 15 percent and create a tax
on local gasoline sales, Barclays said. Venezuela sells its
subsidized gasoline for about 12 cents a gallon.  Consumer prices in Venezuela, which has the highest annual
inflation rate of 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg, rose 1.3
percent in November from the previous month, according to the
central bank’s benchmark Caracas price index. Annual inflation
in Caracas was 26.9 percent last month from 27.6 percent in
October.  Damages from the rains will cost the country at least 10
billion bolivars, Chavez said. The rains have destroyed 50
roads, 36 bridges, three reservoirs and more than 46,000
hectares (114,000 acres) of farmland, Jaua said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jose Orozco  in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  