-- VTB, Troika Shunning Lowest Ruble Yields May Mean Sale Bust: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-12-15T13:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/vtb-troika-shunning-lowest-ruble-yields-may-mean-sale-bust-russia-credit.html
Russia failed to sell any 2016 ruble
bonds at an auction today and issued less than 1 percent of its
three-year notes after offering the lowest yields relative to
market rates since it began providing guidance to investors
three months ago.  The Finance Ministry cancelled a sale of 6.42 billion
rubles ($209 million) of so-called OFZs due 2016 after investors
demanded higher yields than the government was prepared to give,
according to a finance official who declined to be identified in
line with ministry policy. The Ministry offered a yield of
between 7.25 and 7.40 percent for the securities in guidance
yesterday, at least 30 basis points below the yield of 7.7
percent at the close of trading Dec. 13, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “They seem unwilling to borrow at where the market is now
which means they likely won’t succeed in the new placement,”
said  Nikolay Podguzov , the Moscow-based head of fixed-income
strategy at VTB Capital, the investment banking arm of Russia’s
largest bank.  Russian yields are climbing on concern the fastest
inflation rate in 11 months will lead the central bank to boost
borrowing costs. Yields on Russia’s 2016 OFZs were the highest
since the bonds were first issued in August after jumping a
record 47 basis points, or 0.47 percentage point, on Dec. 13.  Russia is holding off on its first sale of ruble-
denominated bonds to investors abroad as the European debt
crisis weakens demand for emerging-market assets, Deputy Finance
Minister Dmitry Pankin said in St. Petersburg last week. The
government will instead concentrate on building the domestic
market, boosting ruble debt sales to 200 billion rubles in
December, the biggest monthly target since September and more
than triple the amount initially planned, he said.  ‘Small Premium’  The increased bond sales won’t “force down” the price of
OFZs, Pankin said last week. “We may give a small premium at
auction, but no more than that,” he said.  In its first auction today, the government sold just 0.7
percent of 9.64 billion rubles of 2013 OFZs at a yield of 6.4
percent, the top end of the ministry’s guidance and 31 basis
points below market rates yesterday.  The Finance Ministry would need to offer yields up to 5
basis points above the market rate to attract bondholders,
 Alexander Morozov , chief economist for Russia and the former
Soviet Union at HSBC Holdings Plc, said by phone in Moscow
yesterday.  “I fail to see the logic behind the Finance Ministry’s
guidance,”  Alexander Ovchinnikov , vice-president for global
markets at Troika Dialog in Moscow, Russia’s oldest investment
bank, said by e-mail yesterday. “I wouldn’t recommend buying
the OFZs, I don’t see the potential for lower rates while the
risk of them rising further is there.”  Budget Gap  The world’s largest energy exporter is issuing debt to help
plug a budget gap the government forecasts will be 4.6 percent
this year, only the second shortfall in 11 years. The government
projects the budget will remain in deficit until 2014, spurring
borrowing. The increase in December OFZ sales is being prompted
by government plans to make 20 percent of its annual expenditure
in the last month of the year, Pankin said last week.  “The market is worried that the Finance Ministry said they
plan to place 200 billion rubles, that’s a lot for the last few
weeks of the year,”  Maxim Tishin , who helps manage $850 million
of debt and equities at UFG Asset Management in Moscow, said by
e-mail yesterday. “Talk of rate hikes early next year” is also
damaging demand for OFZs, he said.  Traders are pricing in 73 basis points of Russian rate
increases in the next three months, according to forward rate
agreements tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil has raised its benchmark rate, the Selic, three
times since April 28 to 10.75 percent. The yield on the South
American nation’s local-currency bonds due 2015 has climbed 58
basis points since it was issued in September.  Rates Rising  Speculation of higher interest rates helped the ruble rally
this month, bringing its advance against the greenback to 2.6
percent. The ruble gained for a third day, adding 0.1 percent to
30.6325 per dollar by 3:50 p.m. in Moscow. The currency, which
is managed by the central bank against a dollar-euro basket to
limit swings that erode exporters’ competitiveness, slid 2.2
percent versus the dollar in November, its biggest monthly
decline since May.  Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge, showed the ruble
trading at 30.9056 per dollar in three months, the weakest this
week.  Extra Yield  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose, pushing the yield 2
basis points lower to 5.056 percent. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Russian debt rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 11
basis points to 201 today, according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes.
The difference compares with 130 for debt of similarly rated
Mexico and 161 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at
Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 33 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, the widest since Nov. 22 yet
down from a 15-month high of 105 basis points in February,
according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps is little changed at 142
today, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 13 basis points more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  ‘Sit and Wait’  The Finance Ministry doesn’t need to raise all of the 200
billion rubles targeted as it can dip into its $40.9 billion
Reserve Fund, said  Dmitry Dudkin , the head of fixed-income
research in Moscow at UralSib Financial Corp.  Officials “do not want to be moved by the recent sell-
off,” Dudkin said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “This may
result in the absence of demand, but it is unlikely that the
Finance Ministry will be worried about it. It is wise for the
ministry to sit and wait a bit.”  Annual inflation  rose for a fourth month in November to 8.1
percent, the highest rate since December 2009. The pace may
reach 8.4 percent this year, above the government’s 8 percent
target, Bank Rossii Chairman  Sergei Ignatiev  said Dec. 8.  Cutting Rates  After cutting key rates 14 times between April 2009 and May
this year to revive Russia in the wake of the global financial
crisis, the central bank may raise borrowing costs in the first
quarter of next year as rising consumer prices are “beginning
to worry us,” Ignatiev said.  The central bank has a “free hand” to start raising
borrowing costs, First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in
Munich on Nov. 29. The next rates review will probably take
place on Dec. 24, according to Citigroup Inc.  Russia’s main interest rates -- which include the record-
low 7.75 percent  refinancing rate , the 5 percent rate charged on
repurchase loans, and the 2.5 percent deposit rate -- are likely
to be boosted in the first half of next year,  German Gref , chief
executive officer of OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, told
reporters in Moscow on Dec. 13.  “The sell-off in the OFZ market has been inspired by
expectations of key central bank rate increases in the short
term,” VTB’s Podguzov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 