-- For-Profit Colleges Put Investors Ahead of Students, Senate's Harkin Says
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-12-14T22:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/wall-street-hurts-education-at-for-profit-colleges-harkin-says.html
Wall Street investment firms’
pursuit of short-term gains interferes with the educational
goals of the  for-profit colleges  they invest in, said U.S.
Senator  Tom Harkin , chairman of the education committee.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , which owns 39 percent of
 Education Management Corp. , is among Wall Street firms that
“have no interest in the long-term educational outcomes of the
students attending the schools,” Harkin, an Iowa Democrat, said
today on the Senate floor.  About 1.5 million students are enrolled in for-profit
colleges owned by 15 publicly traded U.S. education companies,
and another 33 for-profit educators are partially or fully owned
by private equity firms or hedge funds, Harkin said. Unlike
nonprofit universities and public institutions, for-profit
colleges are legally bound to work in the interests of
investors, he said.  “The result is that the vast majority of for-profit
schools have prioritized growth over education to satisfy the
demands of investors,” Harkin said.  Harkin, the  U.S. Government Accountability Office  and state
prosecutors have been investigating misleading recruitment
practices and high student default rates at for-profit colleges.  A call to Education Management spokesman Steve Forde wasn’t
returned, and  Andrea Raphael , a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs,
didn’t respond to a call and an e-mail seeking comment.  Education Management gained 3 cents to $14.05 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading . An  index  of
13 education companies fell less than 1 percent.  ‘Inaccurate’ Attack  Harkin’s speech was “another inaccurate anti-business
attack on for-profit education,” said  Lanny Davis , spokesman
and counsel for the  Coalition for Educational Success , a
Washington-based industry group. Harkin is ignoring the stories
of millions of for-profit college graduates who get good
educations and jobs, he said.  “For-profit higher education is succeeding because our
students are succeeding,” Davis said in an e-mail. “These
students seek out our schools because they want what we can
offer: A path to a new or better job through effective skills
training and focused job placement assistance.”  The Education Department has issued rules for for-profit
colleges that will take effect next year, and Harkin has said he
plans to file legislation to further restrict education
companies. Republican Representative  John Kline , who will become
chairman of the House education committee in January, has said
he opposes more industry regulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  