-- Consumer Agency's Warren Said To Hire Ohio Attorney General
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2010-12-14T22:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/warren-said-to-hire-ohio-s-cordray-to-lead-consumer-agency-enforcement-arm.html
Elizabeth Warren , the special White
House adviser setting up the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection, has selected Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray 
to head the new agency’s enforcement arm, according to two
people briefed on the appointment.  Cordray, a Democrat who was defeated in November for re-
election by former Republican Senator  Mike DeWine , has
participated in the multi-state investigation of mortgage
servicers over allegedly falsified documents.  The consumer bureau, which was created by the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul, has the authority to regulate consumer
financial products, and Warren has set credit cards and
mortgages as its first priorities. Its employees are now part of
the Treasury Department and will join the bureau when it
officially starts work in July 2011.  In November, Cordray sued GMAC Mortgage LLC and its
corporate parent, Ally Financial Inc., accusing them of using
fraudulent affidavits in court cases over foreclosures in Ohio,
according to the state’s website. His office is also managing
litigation against financial firms including American
International Group and Bank of America Corp.  Under Cordray, the Ohio state attorney general’s office
also opened up its consumer complaint process to small
businesses and non-profit organizations, a step that drew
criticism from the head of the unit that he was overstretching
its resources.  ‘Jeopardy’ Winner  Cordray, 51, previously served as Ohio’s treasurer, a state
representative and as a law clerk to the U.S. Supreme Court, and
has personally argued seven cases before the high court,
according to his official biography. He was also a five-time
winner on the quiz show  Jeopardy .  Cordray’s office did not respond to requests for comment.
Warren’s office declined to comment for this report. The people
briefed on the matter spoke on condition of anonymity because
the appointment hasn’t been announced.  Separately, Warren said in a statement that she has hired
Tim Duncan, a former president and founder of  Story Street
Partners Inc. , a financial consultancy, to head up technology
operations for the new bureau. David Forest, formerly of head of
the London-based subsidiary of The Motley Fool, the investment
website, will be in charge of “online engagement,” to help the
bureau connect with the public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carter Dougherty  in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 