-- Washington D.C. Metropolitan Area Is Wealthiest, Most Educated U.S. Region
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-14T19:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/washington-d-c-metropolitan-area-is-wealthiest-most-educated-u-s-region.html
The Washington metropolitan area is
the wealthiest and most educated region in the U.S., according
to government data that offered demographic estimates of
communities from the past five years.  Seven of the 17 counties in the U.S. where more than half
of residents 25 years or older had a college degree are located
in the Washington suburbs, the Census Bureau said today. The
agency also said the only three communities with median
household incomes higher than $100,000 are in suburban counties
in Virginia. Maryland, which also borders the nation’s capital,
saw income levels in Howard County increase at the eighth-
fastest pace in the U.S. since 2000.  The Washington suburbs are home to government contractors
such as Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. , the
world’s largest defense company, and  General Dynamics Corp. , the
Falls Church, Virginia-based maker of Abrams tanks and
Gulfstream business jets.  “Not only does the federal government itself have highly
skilled and highly paid jobs, but the growing number of federal
contracts also offer that kind of employment,” said D’Vera
Cohn, a census analyst at the  Pew Research Center  in Washington.
“The flip side of all this is that the Washington area is less
dependent on sectors like manufacturing and construction which
have had losses during this recession.”  Education, Income Survey  The education and income gauges come from the American
Community Survey, which has been used since 2005 to replace the
so-called long-form census questionnaire that had asked detailed
questions every decade. The annual  survey  is designed to
complement the decennial count and provide more timely annual
data for small geographic areas.  “The ACS represents the first time such a massive
compilation of data estimates for small geographic areas is
available,”  Robert Groves , director of the Census Bureau, said
in a statement. The “very important socioeconomic information
will inform planners throughout the country,” he said on a
conference call with reporters.  The data released today in Washington covered more than
670,000 distinct geographic areas and represent about one in 10
U.S. households. The projections, a five-year average of an
annual survey that asks about topics such as poverty, housing
costs and work-commute times, are the last look at the U.S.
population before the Census Bureau releases figures from its
2010 decennial count.  Census Influence  Data from the final census count, scheduled for release on
Dec. 21, will affect the allocation of about $4 trillion in
government funds during the next 10 years and determine which
states will gain or lose seats in Congress.  The community with the lowest percentage of college
graduates was Owsley County, Kentucky, where 4.6 percent of
residents had a bachelor’s degree. Falls Church in Virginia had
the highest at 69.5 percent. Owsley also had the lowest median
household income, at $18,869, compared with $112,021 in Loudoun
County, Virginia.  “People with college degrees have the highest incomes
because they have the highest-paid jobs, and the Washington area
tends to have highly educated and highly paid people because of
the federal government,” Cohn said. “The presence of
government tends to insulate the Washington area from the
impacts of the economic downturns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  