-- China, India Seal $16 Billion in Deals as Wen Vows to Erase Trade Surplus
-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2010-12-15T13:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/wen-heads-to-india-with-400-chinese-executives-on-heels-of-obama-s-visit.html
Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao  said China
will seek to boost commerce with India while reducing his
country’s $18 billion surplus this year in trade between the
world’s two fastest-growing major economies.  Arriving in New Delhi with what he said was a delegation of
more than 300 Chinese company executives, Wen spoke to a
business conference at the start of a three-day visit meant to
solidify the countries’ economic links while managing disputes
over their border and China’s support for Pakistan. He dismissed
the idea of Chinese-Indian relations as “rivalry between the
dragon and the elephant,” saying “there is enough space in the
world for the development of both.”  Wen said his government “takes seriously the trade
imbalance between our two countries and stands ready to take
further steps to facilitate the access of Indian products,” to
the Chinese market. His delegation will sign more than $16
billion in deals during the visit with Indian companies
including  ICICI Bank Ltd.  and  Reliance Power Ltd .  The Chinese leader said he and Indian Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  expect to announce an increased target for
bilateral commerce, which at $60 billion this year represents 2
percent of China’s projected total of $2.8 trillion.  While India and China “have received more foreign direct
investment than any other country,” investment between them
“falls short of $700 million,” Wen said. He called for easier
procedures for moving capital and people between the two
countries to create “more favorable conditions for mutual
investment.”  Courting India  Wen’s visit, six weeks after a similar trip by President
 Barack Obama  and days before a stop by Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , illustrates the rivalry to court India, said  Bates Gill , director of the Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute. While India and China dispute parts of their 4,200-
kilometer (2,600-mile) Himalayan border, their interest, “at
least in the near-to-medium term” is to “create a constructive
context in their relationship to try to settle differences,”
Gill said in a Dec 8 interview.  China is India’s biggest trading partner and India is
China’s ninth largest, according to the Chinese foreign ministry.  With the countries’ commerce having tripled in value over
five years, Indian officials this week stressed what Foreign
Secretary  Nirupama Rao  called the “need to engage with each
other” despite India’s “noise of public opinion” over
bilateral squabbles.  Alongside Rao at a Dec. 13 conference in New Delhi, Chinese
ambassador Zhang Yan highlighted risks from the kind of heated
accusations that erupted in India last year over reports of
border incursions by Chinese troops.  ‘Quiet Diplomacy’  “China-India relations are very fragile and easy to be
damaged and difficult to repair,” Zhang said. “It needs
special care in the information age.”  India “used quiet diplomacy” with the Nuclear Suppliers
Group to oppose China’s decision to sell two nuclear reactors to
Pakistan, said Srikanth Kondapalli, a China studies professor at
 Jawaharlal Nehru University  in New Delhi. Indian officials
criticize what they say are signs China is taking Pakistan’s
side in the six-decade tussle over Kashmir. Wen will fly from
New Delhi to Pakistan, where he’ll address the National Assembly.  All five United Nations Security Council permanent members,
the U.S., U.K, France, Russia and China, have been sending
leaders to India with planeloads of company executives, aiming
to boost exports to India’s  $1.3 trillion economy , which may
expand almost 9 percent this financial year.  Banking Permits  Chinese Commerce Ministry official Liang Wentao told
reporters in Beijing on Dec. 13 the deals to be signed will
include an $8.3 billion sale of coal-fired power generators by
 Shanghai Electric Group Co.  to India’s  Reliance Power Ltd.   Indian foreign ministry official  Gautam Bambawale  told
reporters Dec. 13 that the visit will lead to “India and China
cooperating closer in the financial sector, especially in the
area of banking.”  India this year eased restrictions that had barred
purchases of Chinese-made switches and other equipment for
cellular phone networks, said Weimin Yao, a senior vice
president of Shenzhen-based Huawei Technologies Co., China’s
biggest phone-equipment manufacturer. “Our business has
resumed,” he said in Delhi.  Among 47 pacts to be signed during the visit, India’s ICICI
Bank Ltd. finalized a $1 billion financing agreement with
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China and Shanghai Electric
Group Co., and Reliance Communications Ltd. will borrow $2
billion from China Development Bank Corp.  U.S. Links  Neither government has suggested any breakthrough on
strategic issues such as the border, where each country claims
territory the other has ruled since a 1962 war, said  Harsh Pant ,
a defense studies professor at King’s College in London.  China’s building of ties with India is unrelated to the
growing Indian-U.S. links, Assistant Foreign Minister  Hu Zhengyue  said in Beijing Dec. 13. Still, said Pant, “China
seems to have become more uncomfortable with India’s rise and by
its closer relationship to the United States,” and appears to
have shifted toward Pakistan, Pant said by phone.  India has protested a recent Chinese practice of refusing
to stamp visas into the passports of people living in the
Indian-administered part of Kashmir. China opposes Tibetan
spiritual leader, the  Dalai Lama , who campaigns for Tibetan
autonomy and human rights from exile in northern India.  Such disputes mean India-China ties “will be more like the
China-Japan relationship in the coming years -- economically
very good, but politically and security-wise a lot of issues
will remain unresolved,” said Pant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  