-- Wheat Declines Most in a Month on Signs of Ebbing Demand Following Rally
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-12-14T19:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/wheat-declines-most-in-a-month-on-signs-of-ebbing-demand-following-rally.html
Wheat futures fell the most in a
month on speculation that demand is shrinking after adverse
weather sent prices last week to a four-month high.  U.S. wheat inspected for export dropped 16 percent in the
week ended Dec. 9 to 18 million bushels, compared with a week
earlier, the Department of Agriculture said yesterday. In the
past four weeks, prices climbed 15 percent as dry weather in the
U.S. threatened winter crops, and floods in Australia delayed
the harvest.  “The concerns about wet conditions in Australia are very
well known, and the concerns about not-as-good conditions in the
U.S. are well known, too,” said  Dan Kuechenmeister , the manager
of the commodity department at RBC Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis.
“A lot of that has been factored into prices, so now we’ll
probably see a bit of a pullback to find out where the buying
shows up.”  Wheat futures for March delivery fell 17 cents, or 2.2
percent, to settle at $7.6325 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest drop for a most-active
contract since Nov. 16. On Dec. 7, the price climbed to $8.11,
the highest since Aug. 6. The commodity has gained 41 percent
this year on prospects for shrinking global supplies.  On Dec. 10, the USDA raised its estimate for world
stockpiles to 176.72 million metric tons, up 2.4 percent from
its month-earlier estimate. The Australian government said Dec.
7 that favorable weather early in the growing season boosted the
country’s output, even as the wettest September-to-November
period on record threatened crop quality.  Speculators Trim Holdings  Speculators may be exiting long positions, or bets for a
price increase, after the recent rally, said  Tom Leffler , the
owner of Leffler Commodities LLC in Augusta, Kansas. In the week
ended Dec. 7, the net-long position in wheat futures held by
 hedge funds  and other large speculators was 15,164 contracts,
the most since early October, government data show.  “If you took the fund factor out of the market and their
buying, we wouldn’t be nearly as high as we are,” Leffler said.
“The market just overextended itself to the upside once again,
mainly off of Australia news and very active fund buying.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  