-- Whitbread Third-Quarter Sales Gain as Corporate Travelers Use Premier Inn
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-12-14T07:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/whitbread-third-quarter-sales-gain-as-corporate-travelers-use-premier-inn.html
Whitbread Plc , owner of the Premier
Inn brand, said third-quarter sales rose and forecast “strong”
profit growth for the full year as occupancy at its U.K. budget
hotels increased.  Sales in the three months ended Dec. 2 at hotels and
restaurants open at least a year increased 6.8 percent from a
year earlier, the Dunstable, England-based company said today in
a statement. Including new outlets, revenue gained 14 percent.  Whitbread said in October that it’s gaining market share as
the Premier Inn chain, which offers rooms starting at 29 pounds
($46) a night, wins corporate customers seeking to reduce travel
expenses. Comparable sales at the brand rose 8.7 percent in the
quarter and 9.6 percent for the first 39 weeks of the fiscal
year, it said today.  “The positive momentum in our business gives us confidence
that, despite tougher comparatives and an uncertain outlook for
consumer spending, the out-turn for the full year will be in
line with market expectations for strong profit growth,” Chief
Executive Officer  Andy Harrison  said in the statement.  Premier Inn’s room occupancy for the full year will
probably amount to 77 percent after totaling 80 percent in the
year to date, the company said. The hotel chain, which accounted
for 44 percent of  Whitbread ’s sales last year, reiterated its
target of reaching 55,000 hotel rooms by the year ending
February 2014.  The Costa Coffee cafe division reported an 11 percent gain
in third-quarter comparable sales. The brand plans to open 300
outlets in the year, taking the total to 1,200 in the U.K. and
650 internationally, the  company  said.  Whitbread has  risen  almost 27 percent in London trading
this year, compared with the 38 percent gain of  InterContinental
Hotels Group Plc , the U.K. owner of the Holiday Inn brand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net .
. 