-- WikiLeaks Shouldn’t Affect Assange Bail, Lawyer Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-12-14T14:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/wikileaks-can-survive-swedish-assange-rape-case-u-s-probe-lawyers-say.html
Julian Assange ’s bid for bail
shouldn’t be influenced by the ongoing controversy over
WikiLeaks’ posting of thousands of classified U.S. diplomatic
communications, his lawyer said.  Assange, who was initially denied bail after his arrest
last week, will offer to wear a tracking device while fighting
extradition to Sweden in a rape probe, said his lawyer,  Mark Stephens . He is presenting a second bail application to Judge
Howard Riddle in London today.  “This is the curious case of WikiLeaks, and it clearly has
a bearing on the way in which cases are dealt with,” Stephens
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move”
with  Francine Lacqua . “But I hope the British judiciary have
the spine and backbone to deal with him independently.”  Assange, 39, turned himself in to U.K. authorities and was
arrested after Swedish police issued a warrant on one count of
unlawful coercion, two counts of sexual molestation and one
count of rape allegedly committed in August, police said. Riddle
turned down Assange’s initial request for bail at a hearing last
week, saying he was a flight risk.  Prosecutor Gemma Lindfield asked Riddle to deny bail for
Assange, saying two offenses were allegedly committed in a short
period of time and that Assange has too few ties to the
community. He could abscond, she said. Lindfield said she is
unable to say how strong the evidence is against Assange.  Assange’s lawyer, Geoffrey Robertson, is also in court.  ‘Most Recognizable Person’  “The chances of him running away, particularly given that
he’s probably the most recognizable person on the planet at the
moment, are very rare,” Stephens said. He regularly represents
media organizations, including Bloomberg News.  WikiLeaks drew condemnation for posting thousands of
classified documents on its website, including U.S. embassy
communications and a video of a July 2007 helicopter attack in
Iraq that killed a Reuters television cameraman and his driver.
U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said Nov. 29 that the Justice
Department was conducting an investigation into the release of
government documents, saying such leaks put lives at risk.  While Stephens is hopeful his client will be granted bail,
he said fighting the extradition may be more difficult. The
European Union arrest warrant process limits the options
available to Assange, he said.  Under the warrant, “the court in this country has got a
very narrow remit,” said Stephens. “Once the boxes are filled
in, there are very limited circumstances on which you can
validly challenge it.”  U.S. Complications  The rape case could be complicated if the U.S. files
criminal charges over the leaks and challenges Sweden for the
right to extradite Assange, who is Australian.  The judge will “try and define the issues as between the
parties and thereby get to a time estimate for the substantive
hearing” in the case, which will likely take place in January
or February, Stephens said in a separate e-mailed statement.  Assange’s mother, Christine Assange, told Australia’s
Channel 7 television that her son made a statement from jail, in
which he called  Visa Inc .,  MasterCard Inc . and the Internet
payment provider  PayPal Inc . of being “instruments of U.S.
foreign policy” after they suspended payments to WikiLeaks via
their networks.  Stephens, responding to the report, said the companies
breached their contracts.  ‘Totalitarian Regimes’  Targeting WikiLeaks’ financing is a form of censorship
usually used by “Third World countries and totalitarian
regimes,” Stephens said today in a phone interview. “Nothing
WikiLeaks does is illegal and there’s no reason to breach the
contract.”  Prosecutors at last week’s hearing said some claims relate
to whether Assange failed to use condoms during sex and may have
exploited a woman while she was sleeping. The alleged crimes
took place in Stockholm and Enkoeping, Sweden, while Assange was
lecturing about the publication of classified U.S. military
documents related to the war in Afghanistan.  Neill Blundell , a lawyer who leads the fraud practice at
Eversheds LLP in London, also said it’s unlikely that Assange
will be granted bail at today’s hearing.  Assange “faces serious charges relating to alleged sex
crimes,” said Blundell, who isn’t involved in the case. “The
court would want substantial sureties perhaps running to 1
million pounds, electronic tagging and an address suitable to
the court.”  Dropped Charge  The arrest warrant was sought by prosecutor  Marianne Ny ,
who started her investigation on Sept. 1 after a Stockholm-based
prosecutor dropped the rape charge and reduced the molestation
charges. A lawyer for the two alleged victims appealed that
decision.  Stephens said Assange has tried repeatedly to meet with the
Swedish prosecutor when he was in Sweden and that she hasn’t
directly provided evidence against him, such as text messages
between the two alleged victims.  Stephens said the Swedish case may be politically motivated
due to the WikiLeaks disclosures. Created in 2006, WikiLeaks
receives confidential material and posts it online “so readers
and historians alike can see evidence of the truth,” according
to its website.  “One doesn’t know what the ultimate motives are; they seem
to be dark,” Stephens said. “There was political interference
in the process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 