-- Wikileaks' Assange Must Remain in Custody Pending Appeal of Bail
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-12-14T18:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/wikileaks-assange-granted-bail-by-u-k-judge-overseeing-extradition-fight.html
Julian Assange , founder of the
WikiLeaks website that published secret U.S. documents, was
granted bail by the U.K. judge overseeing his extradition fight
with Sweden over allegations of rape and molestation.  Assange won the bail request after agreeing to post bail of
240,000 pounds ($378,480), turn in his passport and wear an
electronic tag. He must remain in prison until U.K. prosecutors
complete an appeal of the ruling on behalf of Sweden, Judge
Howard Riddle ruled today in London.  Assange, 39, turned himself in to U.K. authorities after
Swedish police issued a warrant on one count of unlawful
coercion, two counts of sexual molestation and one count of
rape. WikiLeaks gained prominence after it released U.S.
military documents, including a video of a July 2007 helicopter
attack in Iraq that killed a Reuters television cameraman and
his driver.  “The appeal demonstrates that Sweden is persecuting Julian
Assange,” said  Mark Stephens , a lawyer for Assange. “They
clearly won’t spare any expense to keep Mr. Assange in jail.
Stephens regularly represents media organizations, including
Bloomberg News.  Journalist Club  Riddle had agreed to grant Assange bail on the condition
that he stay at the home of Vaughan Smith, a friend who runs a
 club  for journalists, for eight hours a day and report to police
daily. Riddle had denied Assange’s bail request on Dec. 7, the
day of his arrest.  “Last week, he didn’t have a verified address; this week
he does,” said Riddle. “It has been dealt with comprehensively
and entirely satisfactorily.”  Prosecutors said last week that some claims relate to
whether Assange failed to use condoms during sex and may have
exploited a woman while she was sleeping. The alleged crimes
took place in Stockholm and Enkoeping, Sweden, while Assange was
lecturing about the publication of classified U.S. military
documents related to the war in Afghanistan.  “We doubt whether this actual category of rape would be
rape under English law,” another Assange lawyer,  Geoffrey
Robertson , said at today’s hearing.  WikiLeaks  U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said Nov. 29 that the
Justice Department was conducting an investigation into the
release of the government documents, saying such leaks put lives
at risk. About 200 protesters were outside court in London
today, chanting “free Assange” and “stop the extradition.”  Stephens is trying to gather enough cash to post bail and
free Assange from conditions that include being locked up 23.5
hours a day and being denied access to news or mail.  “The 200,000 pounds cash can’t be paid in by check,”
Stephens said outside court. “We have to find cash and have it
delivered to the court. Until then, we have an innocent man”
sitting in jail, he said.  Gemma Lindfield , a lawyer for the U.K. government, had
urged Riddle today to deny bail, saying that “nothing has
changed in the last week.” She also said the case “isn’t about
WikiLeaks.”  The arrest warrant was sought by prosecutor  Marianne Ny ,
who started her investigation on Sept. 1 after a Stockholm-based
prosecutor dropped the rape charge and reduced the molestation
charges. A lawyer for the two alleged victims appealed that
decision.  Stephens said his client has tried repeatedly to meet with
the Swedish prosecutor when he was in Sweden and that she hasn’t
directly provided evidence against him, such as text messages
between the two alleged victims.  Stephens said the Swedish case may be politically motivated
due to the WikiLeaks disclosures. Created in 2006, WikiLeaks
receives confidential material and posts it online “so readers
and historians alike can see evidence of the truth,” according
to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 