-- Woori Falls in Seoul After Employee Group Threatens to Pull Out of Bidding
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2010-12-14T08:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/woori-falls-in-seoul-after-employee-group-threatens-to-pull-out-of-bidding.html
Woori Finance Holdings Co. , the
company the South Korean government is trying to sell, fell
the most in more than six months in Seoul trading after an
employee group said it may withdraw from the bidding process.  The  stock  lost 4.6 percent, the most since May 25, to
14,450 won at the 3 p.m. close on the Korea Exchange. The
benchmark Kospi index rose 0.6 percent.  “We’ve decided not to join the next stage of the bidding
process as there’s no point in wasting our time, money and
energy,” Kim Hong Dall, a managing director at Woori who is
leading the employees’ bid, said in an interview in Seoul today.
“We’ve asked the government to come up with more realistic and
practical ways to sell.”  The group of Woori employees yesterday said it won’t submit
a detailed bid unless the government eases criteria such as a
premium for management control of the lender. Its withdrawal may
set back President  Lee Myung Bak ’s plans to privatize Woori,
which came under state control after the nation’s 1997-98
financial crisis.  “It’s unlikely the government will change the ground rules
just for the employee group, but at the same time it won’t be
easy for the government to find another strong candidate to buy
Woori,” said  Yoo Sang Ho , a banking analyst at Korea Investment
& Securities Co. in Seoul. “Given all the circumstances, the
whole sale process is likely to drag on for a while.”  Woori’s Eleven  State-run Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. plans to divest its
57 percent  holding  in Woori Finance, which is worth 6.6 trillion
won ($5.8 billion) based on today’s closing price. The agency
said on Nov. 26 that 11 parties showed an interest in joining
the auction for the stake, without naming the bidders.  The Woori employees are willing to buy the 57 percent stake
if the government sells it in smaller blocks with a minimal
premium to the market price, said Kim, who has previously worked
at Korea Deposit as well as the central bank.  “We understand the government wants about a 10 percent
management control premium on Woori’s book value, similar to
what Hana Financial agreed to pay for Korea Exchange Bank,”
said Kim. “But that’s not reasonable for us because we don’t
have a dominant shareholder who can gain management control.”  Hana Financial Group Inc. , South Korea’s fourth-biggest
financial company by assets, on Nov. 25 signed a contract to buy
a 51 percent stake in Korea Exchange Bank from Dallas-based Lone
Star Funds for 4.7 trillion won, its biggest acquisition.  Enough to Control  The Woori employees have gathered interest from domestic
and overseas investors that may provide up to 10 trillion won of
financing, enough to acquire the whole 57 percent stake from the
government, including the lender’s provincial bank units, Kim
said today. The group would pursue a diversified ownership
structure once it takes over the firm, he added.  The consortium of employees will team up with two other
Woori-related groups and leave open the option to join forces
with non-Woori parties, Kim said.  He said the group is confident that none of the 10 other
bidders will be able to acquire more than half of the
government’s stake. The lack of a rival bidder to take control
of Woori makes it difficult for the government to uphold its
“valid competition” principle, Kim added.  The Financial Services Commission, the government regulator
that is leading the sale, will review the demands of the
employee group at its Public Fund Oversight Committee, FSC Vice
Chairman  Kwon Hyouk Se  said yesterday.  Duty to Taxpayers  “It would be hard for the government to take the Woori
employees’ suggestion, considering its principle of maximizing
the recovery of taxpayers’ money,” said  Kim Eun Gab , a banking
analyst at NH-CA Investment & Securities Co. “It’ll be tough to
narrow the gap between seller and buyer this time.”  Woori Finance was created in 2001 as a holding company for
banks that the government rescued following the Asian financial
crisis in 1997 to 1998, when South Korea received a $57 billion
bailout from the International Monetary Fund. The government
spent 12.8 trillion won to aid Woori and has recouped 5.3
trillion won so far though block sales of shares.  The FSC said on Oct. 11 it aims to have a shortlist of
bidders for the government’s stake by the end of the year and
name a preferred bidder in the first quarter of 2011.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Samsung Securities Co.  and Daewoo
Securities Co. were hired in September to help Korea Deposit
sell its stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net 
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  