-- Yale Joins Duke in March to Singapore as Asia Pours Money Into Education
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2010-12-14T21:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/yale-joins-duke-in-march-to-singapore-as-asia-pours-money-into-education.html
The first Chinese citizen to earn a
degree at a Western college went to Yale in 1850, according to
the university. Now Yale is joining the return trip to Asia.  Yale University plans to set up its first foreign campus in
Singapore to gain a foothold in a region that provides some of
its brightest students, while the liberal-arts institution
brings the Yale brand in Singapore’s quest to build a regional
center of learning,  Peter Salovey , Yale’s provost, said in an
interview. Three of every 10 higher-education students worldwide
now enroll in Asian colleges, according to the United Nations.  “There is no doubt that the future of Yale and other great
universities is to have a global presence,” Salovey said. “We
would like to be in parts of the world that represent important
crossroads with increasingly thriving intellectual cultures.”  Yale would join  Duke University , the  University of Chicago ,
 Imperial College London  and France’s  INSEAD  among colleges to
set up a campus in Singapore, a nation that restricts public
speech and controls information in the media and on the
Internet. The city-state of  5 million people , with an area
smaller than New York City, wants to attract 150,000
international students by 2015, increasing the contribution
education makes to Singapore’s gross domestic product to 5
percent, from 3.2 percent last year.  “Education is not very sexy when we compare it to the
export of electronics or pharmaceuticals, but it’s beginning to
be one of those important small areas which is providing a
source of future growth,” said  Song Seng-Wun , an economist at
CIMB Research Pte. in Singapore.  2013 Opening  Yale, in New Haven, Connecticut, signed a memorandum of
understanding in September with the National University of
Singapore, or NUS, to build the 1,000-student college, scheduled
to open in 2013.  Sixteen colleges in other countries have a presence in
Singapore, attracting 86,000 students from 120 nations in 2007,
 according  to the government’s Economic Development Board.  The  Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School  started classes in
2007, and Imperial College London said last month it planned to
set up a medical college at Singapore’s Nanyang Technological
University, creating the U.K. university’s first foreign campus.
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , in Cambridge, said in
January it will help set up the new, publicly funded Singapore
University of Technology & Design.  NUS ranked 31st in this year’s survey of universities by
London-based QS Quacquarelli Symonds Ltd., 16 places above
Peking University, China’s highest-placed institution. Yale was
third, trailing the University of Cambridge in the U.K. and
Harvard University, in Cambridge, Massachusetts. NUS partner
Duke is based in Durham, North Carolina.  ‘Rising Powers’  “The U.S. remains the dominant force in higher education,
but the balance of power is shifting,” QS said in the report,
citing budget cuts and endowment declines. “The beneficiaries
of recession in the West, in ranking terms, may be the rising
academic powers of Asia.”  The Organisation for Economic Co-operation & Development’s
 2009 Programme for International Student Assessment , released on
Dec. 7, ranks Singapore fifth of 65 countries and regions, 12
places above the U.S. Asia took four of the top five slots in
the survey, which rates the performance of 15-year-olds.  A 2008  statement  from Singapore’s education ministry said a
liberal-arts college would “inject more diversity into the
publicly funded university sector.” Last year, 78 percent of
Singapore’s graduates were from science, medicine, engineering,
technology or business backgrounds, according to education
ministry data.  “A Yale-style liberal-arts college, whose entire purpose
is to get people to question and criticize everything, is very
much a change,” said  Ann Florini , director of the NUS Centre on
Asia & Globalisation, and a fellow of the Washington-based
Brookings Institution.  ‘Special Concern’  Yale President  Richard C. Levin  and Salovey said on Sept.
12 in an eight-page  prospectus  to Yale’s faculty that “of
special concern in an international venture of this type is the
degree of academic freedom for faculty and students.”  “I feel shame for the university,” said Victor Bers, a
66-year-old professor of classics who’s been at Yale since 1972.
“It cannot be done with a reliable assurance of what we
understand by academic freedom.”  In 2005 the U.K.’s  University of Warwick  said it scrapped
plans to establish a campus in Singapore because of concern that
academic freedom may not be sufficient.  Levin and Salovey said New York University’s law school,
which has run a law program at NUS since 2007, shows that
university instructors in Singapore “are free to teach any
topic and share their perspectives in the classroom.”  An education ministry spokesman declined to answer e-mailed
questions about how Singapore would benefit from a liberal-arts
college. NUS President  Tor Chorh Chuan  also declined to comment.
The government has said restrictions on public assembly and
speeches are necessary to maintain social and religious harmony.  No Yale Degree  Degrees from the new college would be awarded through NUS,
not Yale, while the U.S. institution would have authority to
hire faculty and set curriculum and admission policies, the
university said in the prospectus.  Yale officials are “trying to have their cake and eat it
too,” said  Garry Rodan , a professor at Murdoch University in
Perth, Australia, who has written or edited 10 books on
Singapore and Southeast Asia. “They get the opportunity to
develop and expand without having at the end of it to say that
well, yes, it’s a Yale degree.”  The NUS administration has worked to address any qualms
Yale administrators have about harming the U.S. university’s
reputation, Salovey said.  “Our NUS colleagues are very sensitive to Yale’s needs and
concerns and worries,” Salovey said. “There’s risk involved in
any venture but we have a partner in NUS who is willing to work
with us to reduce those risks.”  Yale in China  The NUS partnership isn’t Yale’s first venture in Asia. In
2001, it joined with Peking University to open a plant-genetics
research center in Beijing. Yale also sends undergraduates to
Peking University to study with Chinese students.  U.S. universities are also expanding in the Middle East. New
York University opened a campus in Abu Dhabi, in the United Arab
Emirates, with 150 students from 39 countries in September.
Cornell University, based in Ithaca, New York, opened the Weill
Cornell Medical College in Qatar in 2002. Northwestern
University, in Evanston, Illinois, has a Qatar campus that
opened in 2008.  In Asia, where students typically concentrate on one
subject, a liberal-arts curriculum such as Yale’s is seen as the
“secret sauce” for creativity and analytical ability, said Ben
Wildavsky, a fellow at the  Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation ,
based in Kansas City, Missouri, and the author of “The Great
Brain Race: How Global Universities are Reshaping the World”
(Princeton University Press, 2010).  ‘Generous Allocation’  NUS and Singapore’s government will bear the costs of
establishing and running the college, Yale said in a statement
on its website.  Singapore’s government has approved a “very generous
allocation to subsidize the college’s operating expenses,”
Levin and Salovey said, without disclosing the amount. Tuition
fees would be comparable to those at U.S. state universities,
the officials said. In-state tuition averages $7,605 for the
2010-2011 academic year in the U.S., according to the College
Board, a New York organization that promotes college attendance.  “If you’re trying to create a great university from
scratch, the way you do it is to have a lot of money, to bring
in all the talent you can, and through partnerships,” Wildavsky
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net 
 Oliver Staley  in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 