-- Yield Curve Flattens as PBOC Signals No Rush to Raise Rates: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-15T05:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/yield-curve-flattens-as-pboc-signals-no-rush-to-raise-rates-china-credit.html
The  difference  in yields between
China’s short- and long-term bonds has shrunk to the least since
2008 as the central bank seeks to damp inflation by raising
banks’ reserve requirements rather than interest rates.  China’s benchmark 10-year bond yielded 77 basis points more
than two-year securities on Dec. 9, down from 123 basis points
at the end of November and the slimmest margin in two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rates on  securities  due
in 2012 increased 32 basis points this month, while those for
2020  notes  fell by 13.  “The 10-year yield shows the government is starting to win
the inflation battle,” said  Simon Song , a China rates
strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Shanghai. “Two-year notes
reflect strongly tighter liquidity in the market after multiple
reserve-ratio increases.”  The yield curve flattened in the past month as the People’s
Bank of China increased the amount of deposits lenders must set
aside as reserves twice, helping restrain lending amid the
fastest inflation in more than two years. UBS AG and Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. forecast interest rates would be raised
last weekend, when government data showed consumer prices
climbed 5.1 percent from a year earlier in November.  Inflation will cool to 3.8 percent by the end of next year
and the gap between two- and 10-year yields will narrow to 60
basis points, according to Song. JPMorgan predicts China’s
central bank will raise lenders’ reserve ratios by a percentage
point by mid-2011 and interest rates by 50 basis points.  Rate Decisions  China  auctioned  28 billion yuan ($4.2 billion) of
government debt due December 2020 today at an average yield of
3.77 percent. The median forecast for the yield was 3.80 percent
in a Bloomberg survey of 17 finance companies.  Major banks’  reserve  ratios have been boosted by half a
percentage point six times this year, while an October increase
in borrowing costs was the first since 2007. China’s pause in
adding to October’s tightening may reflect the difficulty in
reaching consensus as the  State Council  consults with government
agencies, according to Deutsche Bank AG economist  Ma Jun .  Rate decisions tend “to represent different interests in
the economy, not just the inflation-control objective,” Ma said
Dec. 13 in Hong Kong. He recommended China raise rates by 0.75
percentage point by the end of June and increase banks’ reserve-
requirement ratios by as much as 2 percentage points.  Major banks currently have to set aside 18.5 percent of
their deposits as reserves and  smaller lenders  16 percent.
There’s room for more increases in these ratios, Wu Xiaoling, a
former deputy governor of the central bank, wrote in a
commentary published Dec. 13 in the 21st Century Business Herald.  ‘Preferred Tool’  “While rate hikes will come, reserve-ratio hikes will
remain the preferred tool to mop up excess liquidity,” said
 Albert Leung , a Hong Kong-based currency and rates strategist at
Citigroup Inc. “It is possible the yield curve will steepen a
little over the next few months as typically the curve only goes
very flat towards the end of a rate-hike cycle.”  China’s 10-year bonds  yielded  3.88 percent yesterday, down
from a 26-month high of 4.02 percent on Nov. 29. The two-year
rate was 3.10 percent. Those are lower than comparable rates in
the so-called BRIC nations that include Brazil, Russia and India,
but exceed those in the U.S. and Japan.  Policy makers need to consider interest-rate differentials
with other nations and the impact on exchange rates in adjusting
monetary policy, former central bank adviser Fan Gang was
reported as saying in yesterday’s Shanghai Securities News.  Raising Rates  China’s benchmark rate was raised a quarter of a percentage
point to 2.5 percent in October and compares with a maximum 0.25
percent for the U.S. and Japan, spurring capital inflows as
speculation for yuan appreciation attract funds.  The currency has strengthened 2.5 percent to 6.6578 versus
the greenback since a two-year peg ended on June 19, and 12-
month non-deliverable forwards reflect bets for a 2.4 percent
advance in the coming year. China will actively curb “hot
money” and other “abnormal” inflows, the State Administration
of Foreign Exchange said Dec. 13.  China’s benchmark  money-market rate  rose to a two-year high
today, having yesterday jumped by the most since June 2008 owing
to tighter liquidity in the financial system. The seven-day
repurchase  rate , which measures lending costs between banks,
climbed 29 basis points to 3.58 percent, following a 72 basis
point jump yesterday, according to daily fixings published by
the National Interbank Funding Center in Shanghai. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  One-year interest-rate  swaps  based on the repurchase  rate 
climbed three basis points to 3.12 percent. They’ve gained 94
basis points since the Oct. 19 increase in borrowing costs,
double the 46 basis-point advance in 10-year yields.  “Even if the central bank does increase interest rates,
short-term yields will go up more than those at the longer
end,” said  Liu Junyu , a fixed-income analyst at China Merchants
Bank Co. in Shenzhen. “Long-term debt yields have excessively
reacted to tightening expectations.”  -- Andrea Wong  and  Belinda Cao . With assistance from  Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore, and  Sonja Cheung  and  Sophie Leung  in
Hong Kong. Editors:  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at +886-2-7719-1579 or
 awong268@bloomberg.net 
Belinda Cao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 