-- Zale Said to Be Exploring Sale of Piercing Pagoda Jewelry-Kiosk Business
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2010-12-14T21:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/zale-said-to-be-exploring-sale-of-piercing-pagoda-jewelry-kiosk-business.html
Zale Corp.  is exploring the sale of
its Piercing Pagoda kiosk business to focus on its fine jewelry
operations, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Buyout firms including  Apollo Global Management LLC  are
looking at the division, according to the people, who declined
to be identified because deliberations are private. The unit,
whose sales topped $226 million in the year ended July 31, is
profitable, the people said.  Zale has owned Piercing Pagoda for the past decade. Started
as an ear-piercing booth in Whitehall, Pennsylvania, more than
40 years ago, Piercing Pagoda has about 680 jewelry kiosks in
U.S. malls.  Revenue  for the brand has dropped 9.3 percent over
the past two years, less than one-third the decline in the Zales
and Gordon’s businesses.  Zale, the third-largest jeweler in the U.S., dropped 28
cents, or 8.2 percent, to $3.15 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have climbed 16 percent
this year.  Roxane Barry , a Zale spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Charles Zehren, an outside spokesman for New York-based Apollo,
didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  Fine jewelry accounts for about 85 percent of Zale’s total
sales, with kiosks making up most of the rest. Kiosks are
typically in “high-traffic” areas in regional malls, with an
 average  size of 188 square feet, according to Zale’s regulatory
filings. The average transaction value amounted to $40 in the
year ended July 31.  Competitive Landscape  After  losing  more than $280 million in the past two years
and closing about 265 stores and kiosks since August 2008, Zale
refocused on diamonds instead of fashion jewelry. In January,
the Irving, Texas-based company replaced its chief executive
officer and the heads of stores and merchandising.  Finlay Enterprises Inc., Fortunoff Holdings LLC and
Whitehall Jewelers Holdings Inc. all shut down during the U.S.
recession as consumers cut back on discretionary spending. While
Zale survived, “they never fixed themselves,” said  Christopher Ellis , president of Consensus Advisors, a Boston investment bank
that’s worked with jewelry retailers. “Their management has
been a revolving door.”  Now rivals such as  Tiffany & Co.  are benefiting from a
rebound in jewelry sales in the U.S. amid rising consumer
confidence, which reached a six-month high last week. This year,
shoppers cited jewelry as one of the top categories they
purchased in the weekend following Thanksgiving, according to a
National Retail Federation survey.  Signet Jewelers Ltd .,
operator of the Kay and Jared brands, is the largest jewelry
chain in the U.S., followed by New York-based Tiffany.  Breeden’s Stake  In the first quarter ended Oct. 31, Zale lost about $98
million. Sales at stores open more than a year, considered a key
retail measure, fell by 1.1 percent.  Breeden Capital Management LLC, the investment firm run by
former Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Richard Breeden , was Zale’s largest shareholder as of September, with
about 28 percent of the shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Breeden, 61, resigned from the board in September
after serving as a director since January 2008. Breeden didn’t
immediately return two phone calls to his office in Greenwich,
Connecticut.  Golden Gate Capital Corp. gave Zale a $150 million loan
earlier this year in return for warrants to purchase 25 percent
of Zale stock and two board seats.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 