-- Zapatero Seeks State of Emergency Extension to Oversee Spanish Air Traffic
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-12-14T12:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/zapatero-seeks-state-of-emergency-extension-for-control-over-air-traffic.html
Spain’s government will hold an
extraordinary Cabinet meeting today to seek an extension to the
state of emergency adopted on Dec. 4 after air traffic
controllers walked off the job.  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero will chair the
meeting at 7 p.m. in Madrid, his office said in a text message.
Ministers plan to back the request for an extension, which then
has to be approved by parliament, said an official at the prime
minister’s office who declined to be named in line with policy.  Zapatero’s Socialist government, facing an escalation of
the debt crisis and popular opposition to the deepest austerity
measures in at least three decades, this month declared the
first state of emergency since the country’s return to democracy
in 1978, putting air-traffic controllers under military rule and
discipline. The controllers’ average salary has been reduced by
around 40 percent to 200,000 euros ($269,340) as the government
prepares to sell part of the state-owned airport operator.  The government’s response to the air-traffic walkout comes
after it faced down the first general strike in eight years in
September. It risks further strikes from pilots and workers at
the national lottery, which is also slated for a partial sale as
part of the government’s plans to slash the euro region’s third-
largest budget  deficit  by half in two years.  National unions, which Zapatero used to count among his
allies, are also threatening further action ahead of a pension
overhaul slated for January.  Poll Slump  Zapatero’s poll ratings have slumped as the sovereign debt
crisis forced the government to slash public wages, freeze
pensions and ax a subsidy for the long-term unemployed. The
ruling Socialists would win 24.3 percent of the vote if
elections were held now, compared with 43.1 percent for the
People’s Party, according to a poll carried out before the
strike and published on Dec. 5 by newspaper  El Pais .  Air-traffic controllers, whose hours have been extended
along with the pay-cut, were paid an average 334,000 euros in
2008, Infrastructure Minister Blanco told Spain’s Parliament in
January. Their new average salary is still more than twice the
prime minister’s annual wage of 78,185 euros, according to the
2011  budget  law.  Spain’s constitution allows for three types of state of
emergency and the government used the least severe one on Dec.
4. The decree lasts two weeks and its extension has to be
approved by Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  