-- Zloty May Gain Toward Year-End on Rates, Ministry Intervention, BNP Says
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-12-14T10:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-14/zloty-may-gain-toward-year-end-on-rates-ministry-intervention-bnp-says.html
Poland’s zloty may appreciate going
into next year on speculation interest rates will rise and the
government will intervene to stem a decline, BNP Paribas SA said
today.  Derivatives investors are betting policy makers will lift
interest rates from a record low over the next six months as an
accelerating economy boosts prices. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego,
the state-owned lender that sometimes exchanges currency for the
Finance Ministry, sold euros on the market at about 4.04 zloty,
traders at two Warsaw banks said Dec. 10., asking not to be
named as the information isn’t public.  “We like buying the zloty over the next couple of weeks,”
BNP emerging-market strategists wrote in an e-mailed note to
customers today. The 4.10 zloty per euro rate is “a strong
resistance” level, they wrote, adding that the Finance Ministry
has proven it is monitoring and may step into the market.  Analysts at banks including BNP and ING Bank Slaski SA have
said Poland will try to shore up the zloty before the end of the
year as the currency depreciation may push public debt toward
levels triggering government austerity measures.  The Finance Ministry is continuing to "take advantage" of a
weaker zloty to exchange part of its about 5.6 billion euros
($7.4 billion) holdings,  Piotr Marczak , head of the ministry’s
public debt department, said on Nov. 29.  The zloty has appreciated 1.2 in the past four trading days
for the steepest gain among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It climbed 0.1 percent to
3.9916 against the common European currency as of 10:42 a.m. in
Warsaw.  ‘Slightly’ Exceed  The annual  inflation rate  probably held steady at 2.8
percent in November after rising to an eight-month high in
October, according to a Bloomberg survey of 10 economists. The
statistics office will report the data at 2 p.m. in Warsaw.
Inflation may “slightly” exceed 3 percent in December,
Slawomir Dudek, deputy head of the statistics department, was
quoted as saying by the PAP newswire on Dec. 1.  Traders of six-month forward rate agreements are pricing in
a 65 basis-point increase in benchmark borrowing costs, based on
the rate of 4.56 percent compared with the three-month Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate of 3.91 percent. The central bank has
held the  benchmark rate  at a record-low 3.5 percent for the past
17 months even as growth in the European Union’s largest eastern
member accelerated to the fastest pace in two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  