-- Gates Says Decision on Future Combat Systems Tough
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2009-04-08T01:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-04-08/gates-says-decision-on-future-combat-systems-tough-update1-.html

          
          
             Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said
today his decision to recommend curtailing part of the Boeing
Co.-managed Future Combat Systems was the “toughest” of the
almost 60 he made on major weapons programs.  
 In releasing his proposed defense budget yesterday, Gates
called for ending production of the vehicle component of
Chicago-based Boeing’s $159 billion Future Combat Systems. He
said the fleet of about eight different vehicle models was
estimated to cost about $87 billion.  
 The FCS program consists of a fleet of manned and unmanned
Army vehicles joined by a wireless network. It has been the
Army’s top program and the second-most expensive under way for
the Pentagon. The program is jointly managed by Boeing and  San
Diego , California-based Science Applications International Corp.  
 It supports 91,000 jobs at about 900 suppliers in 43
states, Boeing spokesman Matthew Billingsley said in an e-mail.  
 Gates said he spent “a lot of time” with Army Secretary
Pete Geren and Chief of Staff General George Casey reviewing the
program.  
 “The principle concern I had -- beyond the cost -- I felt
a program first designed nine years ago had not really fully
integrated the lessons of Iraq and Afghanistan into the vehicle
part,” Gates said.  
 Falls Church , Virginia-based  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  is the
prime contractor for the vehicles whose production Gates wants
to halt.  
 Roadside Bombs  
 The Army intended to keep the armor on these vehicles to a
minimum, Gates told reporters. That might be a mistake given the
use by insurgents in Iraq and  Afghanistan  of roadside bombs,
some of them so sophisticated they pierced the heaviest U.S.
vehicles, he said.  
 Geren and Casey also recognized the problem and “then they
started looking at how much additional armor can you put on
this,” Gates said.  
 “It just seemed to me it was necessary to stop, take a
deep breath and look at this whole thing freshly based on the
experience of these two wars,” Gates said.  
 Armor Weight  
 Marine Corps General James Cartwright, vice chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, questioned whether the vehicles, designed
to carry infantrymen, could support a 40-50 percent increase in
armor weight to help them withstand attacks.  
 “The idea was some of it would be permanent, some of
it would be temporary,” Cartwright told reporters. “You start to
wonder,” can the original design “really take that?”  
 Gates said he was “always impressed” by other parts of
the program that are being tested. These include robotically
operated vehicles, unmanned drones and sensors to survey enemy
movements. These technologies will be deployed in the next
several years to infantry units and eventually to the entire
Army, the defense secretary said.  
 Gates said he didn’t discuss the FCS program with President
 Barack Obama  last week when he outlined his overall approach to
the budget package.  
 “I have consulted very closely with him and would say
he is supportive -- certainly in the general direction we
are going and I think for the most part the program
decisions specifically,” Gates said.  
 Then-candidate Obama, a former senator from  Illinois 
where Boeing is based, said in October 2007 he would “slow”
development of the program. A month later, Obama said “a serious
review of alternative paths is required.”  
 Gates said he expected “a lot of push-back” from
Congress about the FCS and his other major program
decisions. “These are not easy issues and they affect some
members a lot,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Kirk at   jkirk12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        