-- Teens, Models, Bailouts Meet Lucky Leaders: Alexandre Marinis
-- Alexandre Marinis
-- 2009-07-17T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-07-16/teens-models-bailouts-meet-lucky-leaders-alexandre-marinis.html

          
          
             If someone handed out a prize for
the world’s luckiest head of state, Brazil’s President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva should win it hands down.  
 What about French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , you say, who’s
married to the beautiful and talented  Carla Bruni ? Or how about
Italy’s Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who parties with
teenage girls and suffers no consequence? No, neither is as
fortunate as Lula.  
 A lucky person is “favored by chance, successful through
causes other than one’s own action or merit,” says the Oxford
dictionary. That’s Lula alright.  
 His recent stance on fiscal policy, for example, may lead
to disaster in the near future, but at least for now Lula looks
like a hero.  
 For years, Lula bashed his predecessor’s economic policies.
They were part of a failed model that needed to be changed, Lula
wrote in a “Letter to the Brazilian People” on June 22, 2002.
Soon after becoming president in 2003, though, Lula did an
about-face and embraced the same economic programs he ridiculed
earlier.  
 His comrades in the Workers’ Party, known as PT, howled
disapproval and some even left the party.  
 During most of his first term in office, Lula’s allies
criticized him for maintaining an independent central bank that
allegedly pursued overly ambitious inflation targets that
required double-digit interest  rates . That plan, they argued,
hurt economic  growth  and attracted speculative foreign capital.
Coupled with Lula’s decision to stick with his predecessor’s
floating exchange rate, the real would strengthen, hurting the
competitiveness of Brazilian exports.  
 Fearing Mistakes  
 Lula was also criticized for keeping fiscal policy as
austere as it had been before which, according to his party’s
economists, choked off the public spending Brazil needed to
improve its decrepit infrastructure.  
 Lula didn’t keep his predecessor’s economic policies in
place because he was convinced they were right. He did it
because he and his team knew of no practical alternative that
markets would welcome and they feared making the wrong move.
“We cannot make a mistake,” he used to say.  
 Amazingly, breaking his promise to change the economic
model didn’t hurt Lula personally. He got lucky right away.
During his entire first term, the global economy grew at an
unprecedented level. The prices of commodities Brazil exported
boomed. Credit was abundant. As a result, the nation’s economy
was stronger than it had been for the previous 20 years.  
 The Real Lula  
 The rising economic tide served him well. Although he faced
a serious corruption scandal that could have led to impeachment
hearings, Lula was reelected in 2006. His critics could no
longer fault him for continuing the previous administration’s
economic policies.  
 It was only during the 2006 presidential campaign that Lula
began to reveal his true colors, none of them appealing. His
preference for oversized government led him to add about 300,000
new public sector workers. Then he handed government employees
wage increases of as much as 457 percent over what they earned
in 2003.  
 His foreign policy favored trade with less developed and
politically unstable countries such as Venezuela, Bolivia, Libya
and Iran. He didn’t focus on the traditional large buyers of
Brazilian goods -- Europe, the U.S. and Japan.  
 Relying on Commodities  
 He allowed the country to grow dependent on revenue from
the sale of commodities, whose prices are volatile, rather than
rely on the more stable income from manufactured goods.  
 And finally, Lula showed an excessive tolerance for
corruption within his administration and his political party.  
 Those decisions usually would lead to disaster, but not for
a blessed politician like Lula.  
 How was Lula able to turn these sins into virtues?  
 The need for aggressive government intervention in the U.S.
and Western Europe following Lehman Brothers’ collapse offered
leaders like Lula the perfect alibi to defend a larger
government role in the nation’s economy.  
 Suddenly, Lula’s late 2006 decision to kiss fiscal
austerity goodbye by boosting government expenditures and hiring
more public workers than any other Brazilian president looked
timely and smart.  
 Concerns about growing budget deficits disappeared
overnight. And although Brazil’s net public debt as a percentage
of gross domestic product rose by almost 5 percentage points in
the last six months, Moody’s Investors Service earlier this
month placed its Brazilian government bond ratings on review for
possible elevation to investment grade. Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch upgraded Brazil to the lowest investment grade level last
year.  
 Misguided Yet Effective  
 When consumers in the richest, most developed nations
faltered, Lula’s idea of fostering trade ties with poorer and
unreliable partners turned out to be a blessing. And remember
the concerns about Brazil’s excessive reliance on exporting
commodities? Well, it proved quite providential when consumers
turned more interested in buying food than automobiles.  
 Finally, as Wall Street appeared to house more crooks than
Brasilia, even Lula’s tolerance of corruption suddenly became
more easily justifiable, at least for his party sympathizers.  
 While the crisis made Lula’s dark colors look brighter,
everything else that was apparently out of place in the
Brazilian economy now began to fit. The stratospheric pre-crisis
 interest rate  of 13.75 percent enabled the  central bank  to slash
rates aggressively, preventing an economic meltdown without
risking a liquidity trap.  
 Reserve requirements on Brazilian banks, which were among
the highest in the world -- topping 45 percent for cash deposits
-- could finally be reduced. This injected more than 100 billion
reais ($52 billion) into the economy without fueling inflation
and helped to minimize the impact of the world credit squeeze.  
 Lowering Taxes  
 Brazil’s asphyxiating tax burden, which reached a record 36
percent of GDP in 2008 largely due to Lula’s oversized
government, allowed his administration to cut selected taxes
temporarily. This led to record sales of automobiles and lifted
the sales of major appliances such as refrigerators, ovens and
washing machines during a global recession.  
 While the global economic boom and bust have made Lula the
luckiest politician on earth, they have also hidden most of his
mistakes. When the crisis is gone and Lula’s mistakes uncovered,
his successor will quickly become one of the world’s most
unfortunate presidents. It’s only a matter of timing.  
 ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 For Related News and Information:
More Marinis columns: NI MARINIS <GO>
More commentary: NI COLUMNS BN <GO>
Top opinion menu: OPED <GO>
More news on Latin America economies: TNI LATAM ECO <GO>  
          
          


  


        