-- FCC chief seeks to end AT&T-BellSouth stalemate
-- By  Jeremy Pelofsky
-- Fri Dec 1, 2006 9:06pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/02/businesspro-bellsouth-fcc-dc-idUSWBT00624020061202

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - U.S. Federal Communications 
Commission Chairman Kevin Martin has sought a ruling that could 
permit a recused commissioner to cast a tie-breaking vote 
allowing AT&T Inc. ( T.N ) to acquire BellSouth Corp. BLS.N, an 
agency official told Reuters on Friday. 

  FCC Commissioner Robert McDowell, a Republican, previously 
worked for an association that represents telephone companies 
competing with AT&T and BellSouth. As a result, McDowell had 
said he did not plan to vote on the transaction.  Martin and fellow Republican Commissioner Deborah Taylor 
Tate have tried to reach a compromise with the two Democratic 
commissioners, Jonathan Adelstein and Michael Copps, on 
possible conditions to attach to any approval.  Citing an impasse in the negotiations, the FCC official, 
who declined to be further identified, said Martin asked the 
agency's general counsel Sam Feder to rule on whether the 
government's interests would be served by authorizing McDowell 
to vote on the $82.2 billion deal.  "I look forward to receiving the general counsel's analysis 
regarding my potential participation," McDowell said in a 
statement. It was not immediately clear how quickly Feder could 
rule.  If McDowell were permitted to vote, he also could decide to 
abstain.  A spokeswoman for Martin declined to comment.  Adelstein said in a statement that Martin's decision 
"appears to be an effort to cut short the dialogue about 
measures to safeguard choice and competition for consumers and 
to promote affordable broadband services."  Copps said in a separate statement that Martin's move would 
create more problems than it would resolve.  "But if those pushing this approach do not wish to continue 
and would rather short-circuit discussions -- and very likely 
short-change consumers -- that is something I cannot control," 
Copps said.  The agency has been reviewing the transaction for more than 
seven months.  "It's unfortunate, but after months of intense effort on 
our part, we remain at an impasse," said Jim Cicconi, AT&T 
senior executive vice president of external and legislative 
affairs.  Martin has put off three public votes on the transaction 
because of disagreements among the four commissioners. There is 
a public FCC meeting scheduled for December 20 where a vote 
could occur.  In recent days, conditions AT&T officials have discussed 
with the FCC have included an arbitration process to resolve 
disputes over rates for competitors to lease lines as well as 
prioritizing Internet content from providers who pay a fee, 
according to agency filings.  Democrats have raised concerns about Internet providers 
charging more for certain content, an issue that has been 
dubbed "Net neutrality." McDowell in the past has questioned 
the need for FCC action when there have been no reports of 
problems.  The deal has already won approval from U.S. antitrust 
authorities and state regulators. It would cement AT&T's 
position as the nation's largest telecommunications provider.  McDowell would likely have to read the draft order to 
approve the deal and conduct meetings with the various parties 
-- which could take time.  "Even if Mr. McDowell is engaged, we acknowledge that 
significant uncertainties remain about the tight timetable and 
the conditions that would be applied to the transaction, 
creating some possibility the proceeding could extend into 
January and cause AT&T-BellSouth angst," analysts at Stifel, 
Nicolaus & Co. said in a note to clients.  Martin sent a letter on Friday to the leaders of the House 
and Senate commerce committees informing them of his plans, 
according to a the letter obtained by Reuters.  Democrats take control of Congress next year and could call 
hearings to review the agency's handling of the matter.