-- Earnings ETFs seen carrying risks
-- By Muralikumar Anantharaman
-- Fri Dec 1, 2006 7:20pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/02/businesspro-indexes-earnings-dc-idUSN0145858520061202

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - A plan to launch a range of 
exchange-traded funds (ETFs) based on earnings has triggered 
skepticism among money managers who say earnings are too simple 
a measure of performance and too easy to manipulate to base a 
strategy on. 

  WisdomTree Investments Inc. WSDT.PK, which is a 
specialist in ETFs, wants the new funds to track indexes that 
weigh stocks based on earnings and not other metrics, such as 
market capitalization.  Money managers say that focusing on earnings alone leads to 
risks that a fund will underperform in periods when investors 
should be paying more attention to other metrics, such as the 
strength of balance sheets and the amount of cash in reserves.  Major companies have also been known to massage earnings to 
disguise underlying problems, which may more easily show up in 
other parts of their results, such as in the cash-flow 
statement.  Massaging numbers was prevalent in some of the corporate 
scandals of recent years.  "Earnings are certainly an important fundamental factor, 
but they can be managed somewhat," said Zoe Neale, chief 
investment officer for international equity investments at 
Delaware Investments.  "One is best equipped to assess the health and potential 
future growth of a company by taking an integrated approach 
across all three of the financial statements," she said in 
reference to the cash-flow statement and balance sheet, as well 
as the income statement.  ETFs, which trade throughout the day on exchanges, have 
been one of the fastest growing investment products in the 
United States.
  LEAVE OUT AUTOS, AIRLINES  As competition has intensified among firms trying to obtain 
higher returns for investors, newer investment routes are being 
tapped. Indexes that use financial measures, such as dividends, 
revenues or a combination of several metrics are available now 
to investors and analysts.  WisdomTree, which is chaired by investor Michael Steinhardt 
and has Wharton school professor Jeremy Siegel and former 
Securities and Exchange Commissioner Arthur Levitt as advisors, 
launched 30 ETFs this year, which track indexes weighted on the 
dividend streams of companies.  It has quickly racked up assets of over $1 billion and has 
now filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to 
launch 31 new ETFs, six of which will track indexes that are 
mostly earnings-weighted.  IndexUniverse.com, a Web site dedicated to index 
investments, said the indexes of WisdomTree's earnings-based 
ETFs will be weighted by stocks that have reported positive 
earnings in their most recent four fiscal quarters.  WisdomTree declined to comment on exactly how the ETFs will 
be structured, saying they are in an SEC-mandated "quiet 
period" before their launch.  David Blitzer, managing director & chairman of the index 
committee at Standard & Poor's, said an index that weights 
stocks based on earnings could cost more for investors to buy 
and leave out the stocks of cyclical industries such as 
airlines and autos when they suffer losses, when in fact that 
might be the best time to own them.  "Weighting an index by earnings, just like weighting an 
index by dividends or revenues, or any one of these other 
measures, will give you a very different picture than you would 
get if you'd just look at the overall stock market," he added.  Kevin Divney, a chief investment officer for U.S. multi-cap 
growth stocks at Boston-based Putnam Investments, also attaches 
a lot of significance to the cash-flow statement and the 
balance sheet.  Just relying on earnings will create periods of 
underperformance for a portfolio because the market rotates its 
focus and values metrics differently at different times, Divney 
said.  "If the economy is decelerating and people believe that, 
what are people going to start looking for? They are going to 
look for those who can weather the storm," he said. "And so 
what's going to be priced more by investors are those companies 
that have strong balance sheets and a lot of cash in reserve."