-- BAE 
-- 
-- Sat Dec 2, 2006 4:00pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/02/businesspro-baesystems-saudi-dc-idUSL0214999320061202

 

 RIYADH  (Reuters) - BAE Systems BA.L is optimistic about 
the future of its business with Saudi Arabia, a senior manager 
said on Saturday, despite reports that the key customer had 
suspended talks over a multi-billion-pound arms deal. 

  Damien Turner, Managing Director of BAE Systems Middle 
East, declined to comment directly on reports by British 
newspapers that Saudi Arabia had given Britain 10 days to halt 
a fraud probe or lose a contract for 72 Eurofighter Typhoon 
combat jets.  But asked whether talks were still on, he said: "Why should 
they stop? ... All business in the Middle East, whether it's in 
Saudi Arabia or other locations -- and when you are talking 
about aerospace -- is not simple.  "It is not done overnight."  "These programs have been for a long time in gestation, and 
they will continue to be that way and we are taking a very 
long-term view of the future, a positive view," Turner added.  Turner was speaking to reporters after an upbeat address on 
the firm's plans in the kingdom at a conference attended by 
Crown Prince and Defense Minister Prince Sultan.  Britain said on Friday it would not seek to intervene in 
the two-year investigation by the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) 
into suspected accounting irregularities related to BAE.  The Daily Telegraph had reported on Thursday that Riyadh 
had given London 10 days to halt the SFO inquiry or lose the 
contract for the Typhoons being jointly developed by BAE 
Systems, Europe's largest defense firm.  BAE Chief Executive Mike Turner was quoted in the Financial 
Times earlier as saying talks about the sale of the Typhoons to 
Saudi Arabia had stalled amid the widening probe into BAE.  SFO initially focused its probe on the relationship between 
BAE and two small travel firms which made arrangements for 
Saudi Arabian officials on behalf of BAE.  However, a report earlier this week in the Guardian 
newspaper said the probe was looking into whether BAE money was 
channeled to members of the Saudi ruling family.  BAE has repeatedly stated that it was cooperating fully 
with the SFO and believed that it had done nothing wrong.  Damien Turner said BAE would continue its long-term plans 
in Saudi Arabia, where it has a wide portfolio of subsidiaries 
opened in the past few decades after it clinched 
multi-billion-pound contracts from the world's top oil 
exporter.  "It's still business as usual as far as we are concerned," 
he said.