-- Berlin says France not blocking EADS ownership deal
-- 
-- Sat Dec 2, 2006 12:29pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/02/businesspro-eads-germany-france-dc-idUSL0211832320061202

 

 BERLIN  (Reuters) - The German government rejected a 
magazine report on Saturday that France was blocking a German 
consortium from taking over a stake in aerospace group EADS 
( EAD.PA ) from core shareholder DaimlerChrysler DCXGn.DE. 

  Citing high-ranking Berlin government officials, Spiegel 
magazine said Paris had refused to agree to the sale of the 
shares, adding its approval is required under EADS' articles of 
agreement.  A German government spokeswoman rejected the report, 
saying: "There is nothing in it."  Berlin government sources told Reuters on Friday 
discussions were still underway on EADS' share ownership and a 
date could not be given for an end to the talks.  Spiegel reported that under a plan being discussed, a 7.5 
percent stake in EADS held by DaimlerChrysler could be sold to 
the consortium without voting rights, which DaimlerChrysler 
would retain.  The consortium members would commit to holding the shares 
for 3-5 years, Spiegel said. In return, they would receive a 
dividend increased by over 100 percent -- if EADS pays a 
dividend at all.  DaimlerChrysler owns 22.5 percent of EADS shares and has 
said it intends to sell 7.5 percent. Berlin is eager to retain 
German influence in EADS, the parent of troubled aircraft maker 
Airbus, when DaimlerChrysler cuts its stake.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel has said Berlin wants to 
keep German-French parity in the group.  Her government is worried that reducing DaimlerChrysler's 
stake could diminish German influence in the firm at a time 
when Airbus is about to push through substantial cost cuts.  Ever since EADS was created in 2000, the company has 
maintained a delicate balance between Germans and French in its 
shareholder structure and management.  Delays in the Airbus A380 superjumbo have forced EADS to 
examine changes to the way it produces large commercial jets. 
Berlin fears this could lead to substantial job cuts in 
Germany.  On Friday, Airbus parent EADS decided to go ahead with a 
new mid-sized jetliner to strike back against Boeing ( BA.N ) in 
their dogfight for market share and restore pride shattered by 
delays to its A380 superjumbo.  Hamburg Economy Senator Gunnar Uldall told the Hamburger 
Abendblatt Sonntags he expected the construction of the 
extra-wide-bodied A350 XWB would safeguard jobs in Hamburg, 
where the Airbus plane-making unit of EADS has a large plant.  "Furthermore, I expect that new jobs could be created," 
Uldall, a member of Merkel's conservative Christian Democrats, 
added in the advance release of a story to run on Sunday.