-- VW brand head in talks with DaimlerChrysler: report
-- 
-- Sat Dec 2, 2006 1:23pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/02/businesspro-rtrs-vw-brand-head-in-talks-idUSMOL26541620061202

 

 FRANKFURT  (Reuters) - Volkwagen ( VOWG.DE ) brand group chief 
Wolfgang Bernhard has met with DaimlerChrysler DCXGn.DE head 
Dieter Zetsche to discuss his possible return to 
DaimlerChrysler, German magazine Automobilwoche said on 
Saturday. 

  The magazine also said Bernhard was in talks with 
Volkswagen about annulling his contract and that negotiations 
centered around a competition clause in it, which could prevent 
him from joining a rival car maker for up to two years.  Volkswagen announced last month that Chief Executive Bernd 
Pischetsrieder, who brought restructuring expert Bernhard into 
the group, would step down at the year's end and be replaced by 
Audi head Martin Winterkorn.  Since then, there has been mounting speculation in the 
German media that Bernhard, who used to work for 
DaimlerChrysler, could also be leaving Volkswagen.  Automobilwoche said Bernhard could be a successor to 
Chrysler's Tom LaSorda after big losses as the U.S. carmaker.  Bernhard used to be Chrysler's chief operating officer and 
was a prime architect of the U.S. carmaker's turnaround early 
this decade when Zetsche was Chrysler head.  Bernhard was poised to moved to Stuttgart as lead the 
group's premium Mercedes Car Group when he was ditched at the 
last moment in a management shakeup in April 2004.  Labor representatives were leery of him after he was 
reported as saying former crown jewel Mercedes was a 
"restructuring case."  Volkswagen's Pischetsrieder lured him to VW with the job of 
heading the Volkswagen brand group, where he has slashed costs 
and boosted efficiency amid a steady earnings rebound.  DaimlerChrysler declined to comment, while a Volkswagen 
spokesman reiterated Bernhard had made it clear speculation 
would be no cause for him to put his duties and his 
responsibility into question.  In a separate report, Automobilwoche said Volkswagen's new 
head Winterkorn was considering a sale of its Spanish SEAT 
unit.  But in October, Pischetsrieder told another German magazine 
he doubted it would be possible to find a buyer for loss-making 
SEAT and Volkswagen remained committed to it.  He also said a sale of SEAT would be a mistake because the 
unit had access to technology from the Volkswagen group, which 
would give a possible buyer technical know-how and insider 
knowledge about the carmaker.  A spokesman for Audi, the brand group which SEAT belongs 
to,  dismissed the report of a SEAT sale as "unfounded."