-- Fed's Kohn-inflation has shifted down, risks remain
-- By  Glenn Somerville
-- Sat Dec 2, 2006 12:27am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/02/businesspro-usa-fed-kohn-dc-idUSN0141393520061202

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Vice-Chairman Donald 
Kohn said on Friday the economy still faced a risk from 
potential inflation even though the trend in prices currently 
appeared to be downward. 

  "At the last meeting of the FOMC (Federal Open Market 
Committee)...and in the speech that (Federal Reserve Chairman 
Ben) Bernanke gave earlier this week, we suggested that (the) 
trend seemed to be shifting and our expectations were for a 
gradual decrease," Kohn told a questioner who asked him to 
clarify what he meant when he said trends were shifting.  "But the risks around that expectation are still tilted to 
the upside," Kohn added, using language U.S. central bankers 
employ to warn that they see a greater chance that interest 
rates will have to rise than that they will fall.  Kohn answered questions after a Friday night address to a 
conference on monetary policy at the Fed that was sponsored 
jointly by the U.S. central bank and by its counterpart, the 
European Central Bank.  His remarks were academically oriented, dealing with the 
difficulty that policy-makers face making decisions on interest 
rates when many measurements of economic activity that they use 
are inaccurate or subject to large revisions.  "Those difficulties are especially pronounced at times like 
the present, when resource utilization and the rate of economic 
growth are probably not far from their long-run potential," 
Kohn said. He added that "inflation trends may be shifting" 
without initially specifying in what direction.  Bernanke said similarly on Tuesday that there were 
inflation risks. "Given the current level of inflation, a 
failure of inflation to moderate as expected would be 
especially troublesome," the Fed chief told a New York 
audience.  Kohn did not directly address current economic conditions 
in his evening remarks to the monetary policy conference. 
Earlier, ECB Vice-President Lucas Papademos told the group that 
policy-makers must monitor the impact of globalization on 
inflation trends within national economies.  In response to another question, Kohn said that setting a 
target for acceptable inflation could be useful in an economy 
that had experienced severe price pressures but suggested it 
offered less benefit for the United States.  Kohn is considered less enthusiastic than some other 
policy-makers, including Bernanke, about adopting such a target 
but he acknowledged it was under discussion.  "It's under consideration. I don't know how it's going to 
come out," Kohn said. "I do think in the United States, the 
balancing of costs and benefits is a much finer calculation. We 
already enjoy considerable credibility."  In offering an example of measurement difficulties 
policy-makers deal with, Kohn noted that indicators of economic 
activity "often change markedly" as additional data are 
received.  He said recent revisions in measurements of gross domestic 
product and labor input "would seem to point to downward 
adjustments of trend productivity, but sorting out trend from 
cycle in the new data has been a challenge."  Similarly, although there are more indicators of inflation 
expectations, "here too, the reliability and usefulness of the 
existing data are less than we might like."  Kohn said problems in trying to determine what drove the 
prices of assets like houses constituted "a significant hurdle 
in giving them extra weight in setting monetary policy." Trying 
to set up a model to accurately gauge expectations remains a 
central concern for policy-makers.  One lesson that policy-makers have learned is that it is 
essential to communicate clearly so that the public feels some 
certainty about how the Federal Reserve is likely to alter 
interest-rate policy in response to economic developments.  Sometimes the goal of being predictable conflicts with the 
need to move swiftly to manage risk, especially if an unusual 
or unprecedented event occurs, and that requires clear 
explanation of why the action was taken.  "This conflict is probably unavoidable, and all that 
policy-makers can do in such circumstances is to try to 
communicate as best they can the rationale behind their 
departure from standard practice," Kohn said.