-- Fed sees inflation risk even as growth slows
-- By  Karen Pierog
-- Sat Dec 2, 2006 12:29am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/02/businesspro-usa-fed-dc-idUSN0137650320061202

 

 KENOSHA, Wisconsin  (Reuters) - Federal Reserve 
policy-makers on Friday said inflation remained a risk to the 
U.S. economy, even as data showing factory activity falling for 
the first time in 3-1/2 years indicated growth was slowing. 

  Chicago Federal Reserve Bank President Michael Moskow said 
risks were still somewhat tilted toward inflation rather than 
slowing growth, while Fed Vice-Chairman Donald Kohn said that 
while the inflation trend had shifted down, there were still 
upside risks.  "Some additional firming of policy may yet be necessary to 
bring inflation back to a range consistent with price stability 
in a reasonable period of time," Moskow told the Carthage 
Business and Professional Coalition.  But investors bet on the weaker data, not the Fed. U.S. 
Treasury debt prices rose and benchmark yields slid to 10-month 
lows while share prices and the dollar fell on mounting 
concerns over the slowing economy and growing expectations for 
the Fed to ease monetary policy next year.  The Institute for Supply Management's index of national 
factory activity dropped to 49.5 in November from 51.2 in 
October. It was the first time the index had fallen below 50 
since April 2003. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Moskow, who will be a voting member of the Federal Open 
Market Committee in 2007, said further policy firming would 
depend on upcoming U.S. economic data.  The Fed has held benchmark interest rates steady at 5.25 
percent for its past three meetings.  In answering questions after a speech in Washington, Kohn 
said inflation trends were shifting "from up to down," adding 
that inflation "seems to be shifting toward a gradual decrease 
but the risks are tilted to the upside."  Separately, Richmond Fed Bank President Jeffrey Lacker said 
at an event in Philadelphia that market risks were not a factor 
in his vote against the Fed's recent decisions to hold rates 
steady. Lacker, the lone dissenter in the Fed's last three 
decisions, would have preferred the Fed to raise rates.
  LEANING TOWARD A CUT  Data this week, which included durable goods orders and new 
home sales, have been soft, and the ISM report in particular 
reinforced expectations the next Fed move would be an easing.  "The mounting evidence that growth has slowed further in 
the fourth quarter is bolstering the case that the next Fed 
move will be a rate cut -- perhaps as early as the first 
quarter," Nigel Gault, chief U.S. economist at Global Insight 
in Lexington, Massachusetts, said in a research note.  After the ISM report, fed funds futures saw a roughly 70 
percent chance of a cut at the Fed's March policy-setting 
meeting, up from about 50 percent at Thursday's close.  In an interview with Reuters, Paul McCulley, managing 
director at Pacific Investment Management Co., said: "ISM is 
the single best indicator of Fed cycles; a reading below 50 
always begets an easing cycle."  "The only question is whether the Federal Reserve loses the 
bias on the 12th," he added, referring to the policy-setting 
Federal Open Market Committee, which meets next on December 12.  Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke did not discuss the economy, the 
outlook for inflation or interest rates on Friday in remarks at 
a conference on monetary policy.  However, Bernanke on Tuesday said the risks to the 
inflation forecast "seem primarily to the upside."  "Given the current level of inflation, a failure of 
inflation to moderate as expected would be especially 
troublesome," he said.
  BEWARE OF ISM  Philadelphia Fed Bank President Charles Plosser on Friday 
suggested markets should not read too much into the ISM 
numbers, and he still felt inflation would need to come down 
further if the economy resumed near-trend growth as expected 
next year.  Lehman Brothers on Thursday dropped its forecast for a 
first-quarter rate hike, in part due to signs of the factory 
sector's deepening woes.  "Despite the further retreat on our Fed call, we still 
believe the bond market is greatly underestimating the risk of 
further rate hikes," Ethan Harris, chief U.S. economist at 
Lehman in New York, wrote in a report on Friday in which he 
took note of the apparent drum tightness of the U.S. labor 
market.  (Additional reporting by  Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss  and John 
Parry in New York, Tamawa Kadoya in Philadelphia and Glenn 
Somerville in Washington)