-- Australia, Mining Companies Locked in Talks Over Disputed Tax, Swan Says
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-01T00:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/-no-boundaries-in-talks-with-industry-on-mining-tax-treasurer-swan-says.html

          
          
             The Australian government and the
mining industry have some way to go to resolve a dispute over a
proposed mining tax, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  
 “We’ve gone into these negotiations in good faith,” Swan,
who also serves as deputy prime minister, said today in an
interview with radio station 2UE. “They are constructive but
they’ve got some way to go as yet and I don’t intent to engage
in megaphone diplomacy about negotiations.”  
 Asked about potential changes to the government’s initial
proposal of a 40 percent tax rate, Swan said he didn’t ”intend
to put any boundaries around those discussions.”  
 The comments follow media reports yesterday suggesting the
government is willing to seek a compromise to resolve the issue
before an election is called. Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  late yesterday said she’s encouraged by discussions over
the fate of the proposed levy on mining taxes.  
 “I have been pleased by the constructive and disciplined
approach that is being taken by both sides,” Gillard said in an
e-mailed statement. “I have nothing to report on the content of
the discussions at this point.”  
 Parts of the mining industry have given Gillard two weeks
from June 25 to resolve the dispute over the proposed tax,
saying it would reinstate advertising campaigns opposing the
levy should talks fail. Gillard and companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd.  stopped advertising last week after Gillard took
office saying her priority is resolving the issue.  
 Good Faith  
 “I have indicated the importance of good faith
negotiations on this issue of critical national importance,”
Gillard, who ousted predecessor  Kevin Rudd  last week, said.  
 Gillard, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  met in Canberra yesterday with BHP Billiton Ltd. Chief
Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers , Rio Tinto Group’s Managing
Director for Australia  David Peever  and Xstrata Plc’s coal unit
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Freyberg , the Sydney Morning
Herald said on its website yesterday.  
 The government is prepared to cede “pretty much
everything” to end the saga, the Herald said, citing an
official it didn’t identify. Gillard’s administration has
shifted its position on the previously non-negotiable 40 percent
tax rate, the Australian newspaper reported today, without
saying where it obtained the information.  
 “‘Talks with the government are continuing and they’re
constructive,” Ben Mitchell, a spokesman for the Minerals
Council of Australia, said today by phone.  
 Talks may extend throughout the week, Swan told reporters
in Canberra during a late afternoon news conference yesterday.  
 “I can’t put a timeframe on those discussions,” Swan said
today. “It’s certainly our wish that they are resolved as soon
as we practically can but the most important thing is to get the
right result.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        