-- Abu Dhabi Proceeds With Masdar Energy City Plan, Jaber Tells Emirates News
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-06-30T06:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/abu-dhabi-proceeds-with-masdar-energy-city-plan-jaber-tells-emirates-news.html

          
          
             Abu Dhabi is proceeding with plans
to develop a clean energy city designed to host homes and
businesses without producing carbon emissions as the emirate
reviews the project,  Emirates News Agency  reported.  
 Sultan al-Jaber , chief executive officer of  Abu Dhabi
Future Energy Co. , said the development is not being scaled
back, according to the state-run news service. The news agency
didn’t provide details on the review or say whether a final
decision on the project’s scope had been taken.  
 Masdar, as the Abu Dhabi government-backed renewable-energy
plan is known, began a strategic review after the global
financial crisis cut funding for many real-estate developments
and parts of the city were delayed.  
 Founded in 2006, the $22 billion venture undertook to
develop a city run on renewable energy sources like solar power
to avoid producing the carbon emissions that cause global
warming. Masdar set up a research institute and experiments with
technologies like concentrated solar power that uses mirrors to
focus the sun’s heat onto cells to convert it to electricity.  
 Masdar planned to announce a revised master plan
“imminently,” Richard Reynolds, the head of supply-chain
management at the zero-carbon Masdar City project said at a
conference in Dubai June 22. The strategy envisioned for Masdar
was “very ambitious,” al-Jaber said earlier this month.  
 Masdar has also formed ventures to invest in credits for
emissions-reduction projects with partners like  E.ON AG . Abu
Dhabi, the largest sheikhdom in the United Arab Emirates, also
hosts the International Renewable Energy Agency, established to
promote clean energy technologies globally.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        