-- Former Madoff Market Maker Yields Trickle for Victims
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-06-30T23:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/madoff-market-maker-renamed-surge-yields-cash-trickle-for-ponzi-victims.html

          
          
             A year ago,  Irving Picard  put in
place an idea to get back some of the money  Bernard Madoff  stole
from his customers: Sell the con man’s legitimate market-making
business, including his old software and computers.  
 Castor Pollux Securities Inc. got  Fairhaven Capital
Partners  to provide the financing and bought the unit in a
bankruptcy auction, agreeing to pay as much as $24.5 million to
Madoff’s victims out of future revenue. It hired some of
Madoff’s old employees and gave the business a new name: Surge
Trading Inc.  
 So far, Surge has produced barely a trickle. Picard said in
court papers that the unit has handed over just $3,386, a
fraction of the $1 million spent marketing its sale.  
 “They went for a quick and dirty deal, and that’s exactly
what they got,” said Erin Arvedlund, author of the  book  “Too
Good to Be True: The Rise and Fall of Bernie Madoff.”  
 Arvedlund called the market-maker sale a “public relations
stunt” to make it look as if Picard was making progress
liquidating Madoff’s former businesses for the benefit of
creditors.  
 The company’s former founding president sued in New York
federal court in May, claiming Surge forced him out and failed
to pay him everything he’s owed for his share of the company,
which was formerly run by Madoff’s sons,  Mark  and  Andrew .  
 Four Hours Work  
 The formula under which the payouts to the bankruptcy
estate are made suggests that in Surge’s first nine months, its
total trading revenue has been about $22,571, less than the
Madoff firm typically made in about four hours, according to
marketing materials prepared by  Lazard Ltd. , which was hired to
find a buyer for the business.  
 Picard, who has so far recovered $1.5 billion for Madoff’s
victims and other creditors, declined to comment.  Paul Ciriello ,
founder and managing partner of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Fairhaven Capital, didn’t return phone messages seeking an
interview.  
 Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in federal
 prison  in Butner, North Carolina, after pleading guilty to
orchestrating the biggest Ponzi scheme in history.  
 Surge, which characterizes itself as a start-up company,
says it spent the past year putting its leadership team in
place, updating its technology and starting to trade for
customers.  
 “We’re feeling very good about what’s happening,”  Joseph Marinaro , Surge’s chief business development and strategy
officer, said in an interview. “As we become more successful,
we’ll be able to pay off the bankruptcy trustee.”  
 Market-Maker  
 A market-maker acts as middleman between buyers and sellers
of stocks, providing liquidity to the market. Surge said in a
regulatory filing that it handles trading in 2,200 stocks listed
by Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and  NYSE Euronext .  
 Castor Pollux outbid one other firm in an April 27, 2009,
auction of the unit’s assets, agreeing to pay $1 million in
cash, or $50,000 less than Lazard’s bill for putting the sale
together. In addition, Castor Pollux agreed to pay 15 percent of
its trading revenue, after transaction and regulatory fees, up
to $24.5 million in so-called “earn-out payments.”  
 To reach that total, Surge is going to have to overcome
several challenges, including the “Madoff taint,” said  Larry Tabb , founder and chief executive officer of the Westborough,
Massachusetts-based research firm Tabb Group LLC.  
 “Do they want to send flow over the same lines that used
to go to Madoff?” Tabb asked, referring to customer orders.  
 Customers Signed Up  
 Surge executive Marinaro said the firm has signed up 25
customers since it began trading Sept. 3. A dozen more are in
the process of connecting to Surge, and 15 prospects are
completing due diligence, he said. Marinaro said Surge is
concentrating on the quality of its trade execution to attract
clients and build market share.  
 “We’re realistic,” he said. “It’s all about connectivity
first and the rest will follow.”  
 Surge got through the so-called “flash crash” of May 6,
when the markets plunged, without requiring any clients to route
orders away from the firm, according to Marinaro. Since then,
the firm’s biggest trading-volume day, clients have increased
their order flow, he said.  
 In April, the firm executed trades on about 80 million
shares, according to Thomson Reuters Corp. That’s a little more
than the Madoff firm used to execute in a day, according to a
marketing document prepared by Lazard.  
 Biggest Market Makers  
 The three biggest market makers in April, by volume, were
Direct Edge Holdings LLC, with 6.5 billion shares executed;
Citadel Derivatives Group LLC, with 5.5 billion; and Knight
Capital Group Inc., with 5 billion, according to Thomson
Reuters. Direct Edge, whose owners include the International
Securities Exchange, Knight Capital, Citadel, and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., received approval in March to convert its EDGX and
EDGA markets into exchange platforms. Direct Edge spokesman Erik
Milster said the firm isn’t a market maker and doesn’t belong on
the list.  
 Surge asked Picard in March to restructure the deal,
claiming it otherwise might be forced to halt operations within
two weeks, Picard said in court papers supporting the request.  
 According to Picard, Surge failed to account for the future
earn-outs as a contingent liability on its books. Once on the
balance sheet, the liability -- about $16 million, according to
an April 30 Ernst & Young LLP audit filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission -- put the company in violation of net-
capital requirements for market makers.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in Manhattan agreed on
April 13 to amend the sale agreement. Under the amendment, Surge
Trading carries on the market-making business. A new holding
company, Surge Trading Group Inc., will be responsible for
paying the earn-outs.  
 Increased Risk  
 In exchange for the increased risk to Picard’s ability to
collect as a result of the deal, Surge agreed to extend the
$24.5 million payout period one year, through 2014, to pay
$50,000 per quarter to the estate as a “monitoring fee” and to
provide additional assurances that the estate will be paid.  
 Former Surge president  Darin Oliver  claimed in a federal
suit filed in New York May 4 that Surge forced him out in
January and hasn’t fully paid him for the 14 percent equity
stake he held in the company.  
 According to Oliver’s complaint, Surge agreed in January to
pay him $878,000, in three equal payments, for his shares.  
 Oliver, the founder and former chief executive officer of
Castor Pollux, said Surge withheld the second and third
payments, citing the need to defend against a potential legal
claim by  John Fanning , an Oliver associate.  
 Equity Interest  
 Fanning, the former founding chairman and CEO of the online
music file-sharing service Napster LLC, sent an e-mail to Surge
CEO Petrilli in February claiming an equity interest in Surge,
based on an agreement with Oliver, according to Oliver’s
complaint. Oliver sued to collect the remaining $585,333.
Fanning hasn’t sued.  
 Surge replied in court papers that Oliver signed an
agreement that made him responsible for paying Surge’s expenses
to defend any claim by Fanning.  
 “You would think that both sides would have learned from
Madoff that it’s important to be honest, upfront and trustworthy
in your business relationships,” said Fanning. He declined to
address specifics of Oliver’s and Surge’s claims.  
 The Madoff bankruptcy case is In re Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, 09-11893, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Former Madoff Market Maker Yields Trickle for Victims  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Irving Picard, partner at Baker & Hostetler LLP, pauses during an interview outside U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Irving Picard, partner at Baker & Hostetler LLP, pauses during an interview outside U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
