-- AIG's `Contentious Relationship' With Goldman Has Roots in 2008: Timeline
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-06-30T12:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/aig-had-contentious-derivative-relationship-with-goldman-sachs-timeline.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. 
had a “contentious relationship” with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
tied to derivative contracts, according to the chairman of the
Federal Crisis Inquiry Commission.  
 The relationship, in a two-year period when AIG posted the
 biggest quarterly loss  in U.S. corporate history and Goldman
Sachs recorded record profits, involved bets on subprime
mortgages. FCIC Chairman  Phil Angelides  said the panel will
today review trades between the two New York-based companies as
it probes the role of derivatives in the 2008 credit freeze.  
 “Clearly there was a significant relationship between AIG
and Goldman over the issue of derivatives, and it’s
an issue we’ve explored to see what happened and what motivated
the players, both Goldman and AIG, in that contentious
relationship,” he said in a news briefing yesterday. Below is a
timeline of key dates in the dealings between AIG and Goldman
Sachs since 2008 when the insurer almost collapsed.  
 Sept. 15, 2008: Goldman Sachs and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  work to
arrange a credit line of as much as  $75 billion  for AIG. The
effort is not successful.  
 Sept. 16, 2008: AIG accepts an $85 billion loan from the Federal
Reserve after credit downgrades force the insurer to post
collateral to banks including Goldman Sachs that purchased
credit-default swaps from the company. The insurer draws down
about  $61 billion  in two weeks.  
 Sept. 18, 2008:  Edward Liddy , a Goldman Sachs director and ex-
chief executive officer of Allstate Corp., is announced as AIG’s
new leader.  
 Sept. 23, 2008:  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. says it
will buy $5 billion in Goldman Sachs preferred stock, less than
two weeks after the billionaire investor rejected a proposal to
aid AIG. Berkshire also gets warrants to buy Goldman Sachs
shares.  
 Sept. 26, 2008: Goldman Sachs says Liddy stepped down from the
board of directors.  
 Nov. 5, 2008: A BlackRock Inc. presentation for AIG on credit-
default swaps shows that Goldman Sachs was the most aggressive
bank counterparty before its bailout, demanding more collateral
while assigning lower values to real estate assets backed by the
insurer.  
 Nov. 10, 2008: A Federal Reserve financial vehicle named Maiden
Lane III is created to buy about $70 billion in collateralized
debt obligations from banks that bought protection, AIG says.  
 Dec. 4, 2008: Goldman Sachs was seen by the public as favored by
regulators, New York Fed employee  Danielle Vicente  says in an e-
mail. The perception is cited in the e-mail as a reason to
reject a media request for the names of securities purchased
from banks during AIG’s rescue.  
 March 5, 2009: Senators including  Christopher Dodd , a
Connecticut Democrat, tell the Federal Reserve that the
regulator should reveal the banks that bought swaps from AIG.  
 March 15, 2009: AIG  discloses  banks that received funds after
the bailout to retire credit-default swaps and securities-
lending contracts. Goldman Sachs received $12.9 billion from the
insurer, more than any other counterparty.  
 March 20, 2009: Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  says the bank was “fully protected and didn’t have to
take a loss” in the event of an AIG bankruptcy. The bank wasn’t
willing to accept anything less than complete repayment from AIG
because it had $7.5 billion of collateral as well as credit-
default swaps that would have paid off if AIG  defaulted , Viniar
says on a conference call.  
 March 25, 2009: Lawmakers call for a federal probe into whether
banks including Goldman Sachs received more funds than necessary
from AIG’s bailout.  
 April 16, 2009: Liddy’s $3.3 million stake in Goldman Sachs is
“reason for alarm,” according to Representative  Elijah Cummings , a Maryland Democrat, in a statement.  
 May 4, 2009: The Wall Street Journal reports that  Stephen Friedman , then chairman of the New York Fed, bought 37,300 more
shares of Goldman Sachs while he was on the board of both the
regulator and the Wall Street firm.  
 May 7, 2009: Friedman resigns as chairman of the board of the
New York Fed.  
 July 16, 2009: Former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson , who
had previously ran Goldman Sachs, says at a Congressional
hearing he had “no role” in the Federal Reserve decisions to
pay AIG’s trading partners.  
 Aug. 11, 2009:  Robert Benmosche , in his first month as AIG’s new
CEO, says at a company town-hall meeting that he told
derivatives employees to focus on maximizing the value of assets
they are unwinding over speed in exiting the trades. “I don’t
want to feed Goldman Sachs’s bonus pool anymore,” he says.  
 Jan. 7, 2010: E-mails show the New York Fed pressed AIG to
withhold details from the public about the insurer’s payments to
banks, Bloomberg reports.  
 Jan. 14, 2010:  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg , AIG’s former CEO,
says in an interview with CNBC that Goldman Sachs is “to blame
for a lot of what went on” that led to the insurer’s bailout.  
 April 16, 2010: The Securities and Exchange Commission sues
Goldman Sachs for fraud, saying the bank misled investors about
collateralized debt obligations tied to subprime mortgages and
failed to disclose that hedge fund Paulson & Co. was betting
against the security and influenced the selection of assets for
the portfolio.  
 May 6, 2010: AIG has replaced Goldman Sachs with  Citigroup Inc. 
and Bank of America Corp. as its main corporate adviser, The New
York Times reports, citing people with knowledge of the matter.  
 May 12, 2010: Benmosche says  AIG attorneys  are reviewing whether
the company should pursue the recovery of funds tied to
transactions with Goldman Sachs.  
 June 30, 2010: FCIC begins a two-day hearing into derivatives,
with witnesses including Goldman Sachs executives and former AIG
leaders.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        