-- Thailand's Manufacturing Rebound Cools as Political Violence Hurts Output
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-06-30T09:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/thailand-s-manufacturing-rebound-cools-as-political-violence-hurts-output.html

          
          
             Thailand’s  industrial production 
growth eased in May as some factories suspended work amid the
nation’s worst political violence in almost two decades, a
slowdown the government said is “temporary.”  
 Manufacturing output rose 17.2 percent from a year earlier,
after a revised 21.8 percent gain in April, the Bank of Thailand
said today. The median estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg
News  survey  was for a 23.9 percent increase.  
 Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Honda Motor Co ., Japan’s two largest
car makers, suspended production at their plants in Thailand
after two months of anti-government protest ended with riots on
May 19. Still, rising exports are helping to limit the impact
from the unrest, the finance ministry said yesterday as it
raised its 2010 growth forecast to as much as 6 percent.  
 “Manufacturing activity, especially in export-oriented
industries such as electronics and autos, is likely to remain
elevated,” said  Rahul Bajoria , an economist at Barclays Capital
in Singapore. “Economic growth is likely to remain supported by
strong regional demand, which bodes well for Thai shipments,
especially with Chinese and the U.S. remaining in expansive
territory.”  
 Thailand’s $272 billion economy grew 12 percent in the
first three months of this year, the strongest pace since 1995,
as the global recovery boosted overseas orders.  
 Exports Rise  
 Thailand’s  exports  increased 42.5 percent in May from a
year earlier, the central bank said today. Shipments gained a
revised 34.7 percent in April.  
 Imports  rose 53.5 percent last month after a revised 44
percent jump in April. Thailand had a  trade  surplus of $2.3
billion in May, compared with a $190 million deficit the
previous month.  
 “The political unrest in May had limited impact on the
economy,” Bank of Thailand Director  Mathee Supapongse  said at a
news conference today. “The tourism industry was the hardest
hit, while manufacturing in some industries, especially
electronics, was also affected as the imposition of curfews
during the month disrupted night shifts and product shipments.
This will be temporary.”  
 The country’s  benchmark stock index  was little changed,
easing 0.1 percent at 3:49 p.m. in Bangkok, even as MSCI Asia
Pacific Index retreated 1.1 percent. The baht added 0.1 percent
to 32.42 per dollar.  
 Business Confidence  
 Thailand recorded a  current-account  surplus of $1.04
billion in May, from a $423 million deficit a month earlier. The
measure comprises the difference between exports and imports of
goods and services, investment income and remittances. Trade
makes up about 70 percent of the current account, and tourism
contributes most of the service industry’s 30 percent component.  
 An index of  business sentiment  increased to 49.9 last month
from 46.0 in April, the central bank said.  
 The economy may expand more than the government currently
forecasts as tourism recovers after the political unrest,
Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said today.  
 “The potential driver for further upside would be
tourism,” Korn said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
Bangkok today when asked if he expects to raise the country’s
growth forecast further. “We have seen some positive signs of
that.”  
 Tourist arrivals  fell 11.8 percent to 815,000 in May from a
year earlier following the political violence that killed 89
people and damaged buildings including the nation’s biggest
shopping mall owned by Central Pattana Pcl. Hotel occupancy in
May declined to 34.9 percent, from a revised 46 percent a month
earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        