-- Thailand Has `Upside' Potential as Tourism Rebounds, Finance Minister Says
-- Rishaad Salamat
-- 2010-06-30T05:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/thailand-has-upside-potential-as-tourism-rebounds-finance-minister-says.html

          
          
             Thailand’s economy may expand more
than the government currently forecasts as tourism recovers from
the nation’s worst political violence in almost two decades,
according to Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij .  
 “Room is on the upside,” Korn said in a Bloomberg
Television interview from Bangkok today when asked if he expects
to raise the country’s growth forecast further. “The potential
driver for further upside would be tourism. We have seen some
positive signs of that.”  
 The Finance Ministry raised its 2010 growth forecast to as
much as 6 percent yesterday, as surging exports limit the impact
from anti-government protests in April and May, which left 89
people dead and damaged buildings including the nation’s biggest
shopping mall owned by  Central Pattana Pcl . The  central bank  may
raise its benchmark interest rate in the fourth quarter as the
economy recovers, the ministry said.  
 Thailand’s “recovery continues to outperform even our
expectations,”  Ramya Suryanarayanan , an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd., said in a note today. “The central bank would
have to remove monetary policy accommodation and return rates to
neutral by early or mid-2011 to keep core inflation under
check.”  
 Tourist arrivals at the nation’s international airport are
“strong” and advanced bookings for July and August at  Thai
Airways International Pcl , the country’s largest carrier, are
better than last year, Korn said.  
 ‘Conservative’ Forecast  
 The government’s revised 2010 growth forecast is “quite
conservative,” and assumes that the economy will contract by
3.5 percent this quarter from the previous three months, Korn
said. The economy may be unchanged in the July-to-September
period from the current three months, he said.  
 The manufacturing industry wasn’t “really affected” by
the recent political chaos as the unrest took place mostly in
Bangkok, Korn said. The Bank of Thailand will release the
monthly  production  data later today.  
 Thailand’s  exports , equivalent to about 60 percent of the
$272 billion economy, jumped 42.1 percent in May, the biggest
gain in almost two years.  
 The baht’s appreciation hasn’t affected exports, indicating
that the country “is no longer an exporting economy that
depends entirely on price competition,” Korn said. “The Bank
of Thailand is keeping its eyes on that,” he said.  
 The  central bank  said this month the impact of the unrest
was limited and the economic momentum should continue. Policy
makers on June 2 kept the  main interest rate  at 1.25 percent,
the lowest level since July 2004. The next monetary policy
meeting is on July 14.  
 Governor Candidates  
 Korn said he is reviewing the four “top-class” candidates
to replace central bank Governor  Tarisa Watanagase , whose term
will expire at the end of September. The decision will be made
“in the next couple of weeks,” he said.  
 “Any one of them would make an excellent governor,” Korn
said. “They are all equally well-qualified. Unfortunately, we
can have only one governor, not four.”  
 Korn confirmed earlier this month that  Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala , head of the Securities & Exchange
Commission, former Deputy Finance Minister  Pisit Leeahtam ,
 Prasarn Trairatvorakul , President of Kasikornbank Pcl, and
Deputy Governor  Bandid Nijathaworn  are applying to become the
22nd governor.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Thailand's Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Thailand's Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij speaks during an interview in Beijing. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Thailand's Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij speaks during an interview in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
