-- Thaksin's Aide Says Failure to Engage Thai Opposition May Revive Protests
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-06-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/thaksin-aide-says-failure-to-include-thai-opposition-may-revive-protests.html

          
          
             Thai protesters might return to the
streets if the government fails to include them in talks about
Thailand’s future and continues to call them terrorists, an aide
to former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  said in Washington.  
 “The government should be more accommodating, should be
more prepared to talk, should show some sincerity toward
reconciliation,”  Noppadon Pattama , a former foreign minister,
said in an interview yesterday.  
 Noppadon is advocating for the U.S. to encourage the Thai
government to be more open to opposition views and involvement
in political reconciliation after deadly protests in May. He
said his Facebook page, bank accounts and credit cards have been
blocked by the Thai government, and he financed the three-day
trip to the U.S. with loans from friends and supporters.  
 Rival groups have clashed on the streets of Bangkok since
the army ousted Thaksin, at odds over their visions for
Thailand’s future. The battles involving the pro-Thaksin red
shirt-wearing protesters hit a peak in May, resulting in the
deaths of 89 people, the destruction of economic institutions
like the stock markets and a drop in investor confidence in
Thailand.  
 The opposition says the ruling Democrat party of Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  is excluding them from committees
created to reconcile the country’s political differences.
Abhisit has said he wants broad input.  
 “I told the Thai people that it’s time we reconcile,
drawing our hearts as one for reform,” the prime minister told
foreign investors on June 18 in Nonthaburi, outside Bangkok. “I
will do my best to arrange for all voices and all ideas to be
heard.”  
 Economic Outreach  
 Thaksin, who was ousted in a 2006 military coup and fled a
two-year jail sentence for abuse of power in 2008, is calling
for the reinstatement of the 1997 constitution under which he
won office. He built political support by providing the poor in
the country’s northeast with improved health care, cheap loans
and education programs. His allies mobilized that backing in the
rallies this year against Abhisit.  
 Thai opposition leaders are hoping the U.S. will take a
higher profile position on the situation in Thailand and make
more public statements about the need for the ruling party to
include all sides in the reconciliation process, Noppadon said.  
 Noppadon praised an April statement from the State
Department that urged cooperation between the parties and
pointed to what he described as the tough stance President
 Barack Obama ’s administration took against Honduras for deposing
President  Manuel Zelaya  last year.  
 After the 2006 coup in Thailand, “we were disappointed by
the U.S. response,” Noppadon said. “We hope that the new
administration will be more engaged, more supportive.”  
 Opposition Demands  
 Noppadon came to Washington with a “peace plan” that
calls for a new general election “sooner rather than later.”
Other criteria include lifting the state of emergency the
government has imposed, releasing political detainees, lifting
the ban on media outlets that support the opposition and
amending the constitution.  
 “We think the present constitution is very undemocratic
because it was put in place by the junta, the coup group,”
Noppadon said.  
 Under a clause in the post-coup constitution, a party can
be disbanded and its executive board banned from office for five
years if one member is found guilty of a crime. Since the coup,
courts have disbanded four political parties, including the two
composed of Thaksin’s allies that won the past two elections.  
 While Thaksin is following events in Thailand from exile,
Noppadon said the protesters aren’t under the former leader’s
control.  
 “He cannot order the Red Shirts to turn right or left,”
Noppadon said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Former Thai premier Thaksin Shinawatra  
                       
                         
                           Savo Prelevic/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Former Thai premier Thaksin Shinawatra leaves a bank in Podgorica, Montenegro. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Former Thai premier Thaksin Shinawatra leaves a bank in Podgorica, Montenegro. Photographer: Savo Prelevic/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
