-- Akzo, PPG Profit Squeezed by Paint Materials Shortage
-- Jack Kaskey
-- 2010-06-30T20:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/akzo-ppg-sherwin-williams-profits-squeezed-by-paint-ingredient-shortage.html

          
          
             The world’s largest  paint makers  are
raising prices as they try to overcome a shortage of raw
materials and keep store shelves stocked during the prime house-
painting season in North America, Europe and Asia.  
 Akzo Nobel NV, which makes Dulux paint, and PPG Industries
Inc., which produces the Olympic and Pittsburgh brands, have
seen the price of  acrylic acid , a resin that binds pigments
together, jump 71 percent in the past 12 months.  Titanium
dioxide , which makes paint opaque, has risen close to a record
this year, while there’s not enough methyl methacrylate, which
is used to create weather-resistance.  
 Dow Chemical Co. and rival paint-ingredients suppliers shut
plants in the recession and are suffering mechanical failures as
their remaining factories are pushed to full output, said  George Pilcher , vice president of Cincinnati-based industry consultant
Chemquest Group. Demand in the $70 billion-a-year paint industry
is growing, led by Asia and the recovering U.S. economy.  
 “I don’t see any of this clearing up before the end of the
year,” said Pilcher, who formerly worked at Akzo, the world’s
biggest paint maker, and Sherwin-Williams Co., the third-
largest. “There won’t be enough house paint to go around.”  
 Dow, the world’s largest producer of acrylic, can’t fill
all its orders, said Gregory Baldwin, a company spokesman. Dow
and competing makers of paint ingredients probably won’t catch
up with the backlog of acrylic-acid and methacrylate orders
until September or October, Chief Financial Officer  William H. Weideman  said in a June 8 presentation.  
 Low Inventories  
 “Inventories are low all through the chain,” said  Ian Davenport , a former director of Dow’s acrylics business who runs
New York-based consultant Davenport International Associates.  
 “Pricing of paint absolutely must go up,” he said. “It’s
a global issue.”  
 U.S. shoppers can expect to pay 5 percent more for paint,
or almost $2 a gallon for premium brands, said Phil Phillips,
president of Chemark Consulting in Southern Pines, North
Carolina.  
 “We have or are in the process of increasing prices across
the globe and in every product line,”  Bill Mansfield , chief
executive officer of U.S. paint maker Valspar Corp., said June 3
at a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. conference in New York. Higher
prices may not be fully implemented until year end, he said.  
 Road paint is already in short supply. The Texas Department
of Transportation last month suspended retracing to conserve
material for new pavement.  DuPont Co. , the world’s biggest maker
of automotive paint, has been forced to find new suppliers, said
Panos Kordemenos, sourcing director for DuPont performance
coatings.  
 Spanish Restart  
 About 10 percent of capacity for making titanium dioxide
has been scrapped, including a plant in Grimsby, England, that
was shut by Huntsman Corp., the fourth-biggest maker. Huntsman
is advancing the restart of its plant in Huelva, Spain, by eight
months to help meet demand for the pigment, known by its
chemical formula, TiO2.  
 “If we get back to not euphoric highs but halfway, I can
see where there will be some fundamental long-term supply
shortages, not just in TiO2, but also in acrylics,” Huntsman’s
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Huntsman  said in a phone interview
from The Woodlands, Texas, where the chemical maker is based.  
 Earnings estimates for paint makers have been rising, even
as improving demand makes supplies scarce. Whether profit
margins get squeezed by higher costs depends on how quickly
paint makers can increase consumer prices, Pilcher said.  
 Earnings Estimates  
 Earnings at Valspar, the world’s sixth-biggest coatings
maker, are poised to increase 33 percent this year, the most
since 2002, according to a Bloomberg analyst  survey . Profit at
Akzo may rise 32 percent, the biggest gain since 2004, and PPG’s
profit may  surge  46 percent, the most in at least a decade.
Sherwin-Williams earnings may gain 15 percent, according to
analysts’ estimates.  
 Shares  of Akzo Nobel, with almost half its sales in Europe,
fell 20.5 cents, or 0.5 percent, to close at 43.005 euros in
Amsterdam trading. They have dropped 7.3 percent this year.  
 PPG, which generates almost half its sales in the Americas,
has gained 3.2 percent in 2010. The shares fell 1 percent to
$60.44 at 4:15 p.m. in New York. Sherwin-Williams, with 86
percent of sales in the U.S., fell 1.2 percent to $69.19 in New
York. The shares are up 12 percent this year.  
 “We see tight supply in certain markets today, which we
are monitoring closely and managing appropriately,” said  Tim van der Zanden , a spokesman for Amsterdam-based Akzo Nobel.  
 Sherwin-Williams’s size will help it overcome shortages and
keep shelves stocked at its 3,357 paint stores, said  Mike Conway , a spokesman for the Cleveland-based company. PPG
spokesman  Jeremy Neuhart  didn’t respond to requests for comment.  
 Plant Explosion  
 Acrylic-acid supplies tightened after a December explosion
at American Acryl’s plant in Bayport, Texas, Davenport said. Dow
is still limiting acrylic acid sales even after its Deer Park,
Texas plant restarted following a February failure. Also in
Texas, a center for the U.S. chemicals industry, Germany’s BASF
SE limited sales ahead of a June maintenance closure at its
Freeport plant, company spokesman Daniel Pepitone said.  
 Methyl methacrylate is in short supply after plant closures
at Mitsubishi Rayon Co.’s Lucite unit, the largest producer, and
an equipment failure at Dow’s Deer Park site. Arkema SA sued Dow
last month to provide contracted quantities of the chemical.  
 Acrylic acid, which is also used to make absorbent material
for diapers, increased to a record $2,440 a metric ton in May,
according to data from ICIS-LOR, a chemical news and pricing
service. Producers paid $1.12 a pound for titanium dioxide in
March, 1 cent short of the record set in November 2006,
according to data from Purchasing Magazine. About 60 percent of
global TiO2 output goes into paint, Peter Huntsman said.  
 “We are holding our breath and hoping the chemical
industry can respond to the increased demand and supply the
product we need at an economical price,” said Tony Mash, chief
executive officer of the  British Coatings Federation .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     This is a file photo of paint swatches on display in a Sherwin-Williams store in Houston on July 19, 2007. Photographer: Craig Hartley/Bloomberg News.  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
