-- 401(k) Fund Match Not Restored by Half of U.S. Firms, Towers Watson Says
-- Margaret Collins
-- 2010-06-30T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/half-of-u-s-companies-haven-t-restored-401-k-match-towers-watson-says.html

          
          
             Almost half of U.S. companies that
reduced or suspended their contributions to employee retirement
plans during the recession haven’t restored them, according to
 Towers Watson & Co .  
 A  survey  of 334 firms with more than 1,000 employees in
April and May found that 18 percent reduced or suspended their
contributions to 401(k) plans since September 2008 to save cash.
About 49 percent of them haven’t resumed their matches, the New
York-based benefits consultant said today.  
 “Some of the companies who have reinstated or who are
thinking about reinstating are making the contributions
contingent on profits of the company,” said Robyn Credico,
defined-contribution practice leader in North America for Towers
Watson. “If there is ever another downturn they don’t have to
go through the painful experience of communicating to employees
that they’re suspending the match.”  
 Companies including General Motors Co.,  Ford Motor Co. ,
 Eastman Kodak Co.  and FedEx Corp. have restored contributions to
401(k) plans, according to the  Pension Rights Center , a consumer
group based in Washington.  Motorola Inc. , with 53,000 employees
globally, will reinstate its contributions to employee plans
starting July 1, said  Tama McWhinney , a spokeswoman for the
mobile-phone maker.  Sears Holdings Corp.  with 290,000 U.S.
workers, hasn’t reinstated its match, according to spokeswoman
 Kimberly Freely .  
 The most common contribution by larger employers is 3
percent if workers save 6 percent of their salaries, Credico
said. The average account balance of workers was $71,044,
according to the survey, which represents more than 5.3 million
plan participants.  
 Contribution Incentive  
 Employer matches to workers’ contributions help employees
increase savings and provide an incentive for them to
contribute, said Nancy Hwa, a spokeswoman for the Pension Rights
Center. About 45 percent of employees ranked an employer’s
contribution as “very influential” on their savings, according
to a separate survey of 1,000 401(k) participants released
yesterday by  New York-based BlackRock Inc. , the world’s largest
asset manager.  
 An estimated 57 percent of firms automatically enroll
employees into their 401(k)s and 72 percent use target-date
funds as the default choice for those who don’t select their own
investments, according to Towers Watson.  
 Target-date funds move money from riskier investments such
as stocks to more conservative investments like bonds as a
worker reaches retirement. They attracted $45 billion last year,
according to  Morningstar Inc. , the Chicago-based fund
researcher.  
 A Good Thing  
 “Auto enrollment is a good thing if you default people to
the right savings rate or you auto increase them over time to
the right savings rate,” said Credico. “If you default people
to a low savings rate they are not likely to change the rate and
they won’t be saving enough.”  
 Lawmakers are seeking ways to prevent Americans from
outliving their savings as more workers who relied on
traditional pension plans are trying to pay for retirement with
their 401(k) savings.  
 The number of participants in traditional pension plans,
where employers generally provide retired employees with
lifetime payments, fell to about 19 million in 2007 from 27
million in 1975. In that same period, workers in defined
contribution plans such as 401(k)s increased to 67 million from
11 million, according to the U.S. Department of Labor.  
 Slow Adoption  
 Adoption of income guarantees in 401(k) plans has been
slow, said Credico. About 18 percent of employers either offer
annuities to participants or plan to do so this year or next,
according to Towers Watson. Annuities are insurance products
that can provide monthly income for life in exchange for upfront
payments.  
 Employers have been reluctant to add them to retirement
plans because of concerns about fees and potential legal
liabilities for companies that select the insurers. There’s also
the issue of how workers who switch jobs can transfer the
guarantees, said Lori Lucas, defined-contribution practice
leader for Callan Associates Inc., a San Francisco-based
investment-consulting firm.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
     
         Attachment:  Towers Watson Study 
     
    
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
