-- Allen & Overy Partner Profit Rises 10% After Lawyer Cuts, Opens in Jakarta
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-06-30T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/allen-overy-partner-profit-rises-10-after-reductions-to-lawyers-staff.html

          
          
             Partner profits at  Allen & Overy LLP ,
one of London’s five highest-grossing law firms, rose 10 percent
following reductions to its number of lawyers.  
 Revenue fell 4 percent to 1.05 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) for the year that ended April 30, the firm said in a
statement today. Profits per partner, a standard method of
measuring law-firm results, rose to 1.1 million pounds on
average, from 1 million last year.  
 Staff costs fell 11 percent to 384 million pounds at the
firm, which had around 450 partners in 36 offices. Allen &
Overy, whose clients include most of the largest U.S. and U.K.
banks, fired 250 lawyers and 200 staff in a 46-million pound
restructuring in February 2009.  
 “We have made strategic choices to secure future growth,
and in doing so have built resilience into our business,
enhanced our global reach and diversified our practice area
mix,”  Wim Dejonghe , managing partner of firm, said in the
statement.  
 Profit distribution to partners, who share in the firm’s
equity, ranged from 661,000 pounds to 1.65 million pounds. While
overall firm profit fell less than 1 percent to 428.8 million
pounds, the average number of partners declined by 39.  
 Allen & Overy advised former  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Fuld  in proceedings in the U.S.
arising from the failed bank’s 2008 collapse. The firm also
represented  Vale SA  in the sale of its aluminum assets to  Norsk
Hydro ASA  for $4.9 billion and  Nomura Holdings Inc.  on the
U.K.’s largest office letting of 2009.  
 Indonesia Office  
 The firm has opened offices in Qatar, Sydney and Perth,
Australia in the past year, and said today it would open an
office in Indonesia. The office is in association with the
Jakarta-based Daniel Ginting law firm, which advises on banking
and finance, international capital markets and corporate law.  
 Allen & Overy’s banking, litigation, regulatory,
restructuring and emerging markets practices were the strongest
in the past year, the firm said.  
 Linklaters LLP ,  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP  and
 Clifford Chance LLP  haven’t reported their financial results yet
this year.  Slaughter & May , the fifth “Magic Circle” firm,
isn’t required to report earnings because it isn’t a limited
liability partnership.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        