-- Tamweel Wins Right to Repossess Five Dubai Homes as Owners Leave Country
-- Zainab Fattah
-- 2010-06-30T12:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/tamweel-wins-right-to-repossess-five-dubai-homes-as-owners-leave-country.html

          
          
             Tamweel PJSC , Dubai’s second-biggest
Islamic mortgage company by assets, won the right to repossess
five homes after their owners left the country.  
 “We have received a number of favorable judgments from the
court against the customers who owe us money,”  Hamid Chinoy ,
group chief corporate services officer at Tamweel, said by
telephone yesterday. “Basically, Tamweel owns the properties
now.”  
 Tamweel has several other cases in the courts and plans to
file more, Chinoy said. The lender filed its first cases in
November. Tamweel said in January that about 3 percent of its
mortgages were in default.  
 Real estate prices in Dubai fell by about 50 percent
because of the financial crisis, prompting some homeowners to
stop paying off their mortgage and leave the country.  Barclays
Plc  won Dubai’s first foreclosure cases in court under a 2008
mortgage law, setting a precedent for lenders holding about $16
billion of Dubai home loans to take action when borrowers
default.  
 Under the law, foreclosed properties financed by
conventional mortgages must be sold by the lender in a public
auction. However, for Islamic mortgages, “it is possible public
auctions won’t be necessary, but we are still working on the
execution process,” said  Jody Waugh , a partner at Al Tamimi &
Co. in Dubai, the law firm that advised Tamweel.  
 Tamweel’s judgments “are a positive step and we are
working with the execution department and the lands department
to execute the judgment,” Waugh said. “The judgment itself is
not the final step.”  
 Al Tamimi has already obtained 10 to 12 successful
judgments for the enforcement of Islamic finance documents,
known as Ijara, Waugh said. None of the judgments has been
carried out yet.  
 Tamweel was informed of the judgments on June 24.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        