-- Maoist Rebels Kill 26 Indian Security Officers in Ambush Attack in East
-- Paul Tighe
-- 2010-06-30T05:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/maoist-rebels-kill-26-indian-security-officers-in-ambush-attack-in-east.html

          
          
             Maoist rebels killed 26 security
personnel in an ambush in the central Indian state of
 Chhattisgarh , the third major attack in the region since April.  
 “Additional forces have been rushed to the area,” in the
state’s Narayanpur district, Ram Niwas, a senior state police
officer, said by phone. “We are continuing search operations in
dense forests.”  
 The heavily armed rebels struck yesterday afternoon,
opening fire on a 70-member security contingent as it returned
from a road-clearing operation about 300 kilometers (186 miles)
from the state capital, Raipur, Niwas said.  
 Mineral-rich Chhattisgarh is one of 11 of India’s 28 states
where the leftwing guerrillas are fighting to install communist
rule. In April, a similar assault killed 76 policemen in nearby
Dantewada district, the biggest strike on security forces in
four decades of conflict. In May, the rebels blew up a bus
carrying civilians and police, killing at least 31 people.  
 The 26 men who died yesterday were members of the Central
Reserve Police Force, a paramilitary unit at the forefront of a
stepped-up campaign against the rebels, Giridhari Nayak,
additional director general of police, said. Five others were
injured in the attack, he said.  
 The attacks are a setback to Home Minister Palaniappan
Chidambaram’s efforts to rid India’s eastern states of the
guerillas and open up regions rich in iron ore, coal, bauxite
and manganese to investment. NMDC Ltd. operates its biggest
iron-ore mine in Chhattisgarh and  Essar Steel Ltd.  plans to
build a $1.5 billion steel plant in the region.  
 Class War  
 The so-called Naxalite movement takes its name from a
radical 1967 peasant uprising in a village called Naxalbari in
the eastern state of West Bengal. It was greeted as “a peal of
spring thunder” by China’s People Daily at its birth during the
political purges of  Mao Zedong ’s Cultural Revolution.  
 Initially inspired by Maoist ideology, it has pressed a
campaign of violence against the government, police and
landowners in a  class war . The insurgents have killed about
8,000 people since 1998, according to government figures. In May,
146 people died when two trains collided in West Bengal state
after suspected Maoists sabotaged the rail line.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Tighe  in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        