-- ArcelorMittal, Voestalpine, Others Fined $637 Million by EU in Steel Case
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-06-30T15:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/arcelormittal-voestalpine-others-fined-637-million-by-eu-in-steel-case.html

          
          
             ArcelorMittal , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, and  Voestalpine AG  were among 17 producers fined a
total of 518.5 million euros ($637 million) by the European
Union for fixing prices of steel used to reinforce concrete.  
 The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s antitrust
regulator, said the companies, including a unit of Russian
steelmaker  OAO Severstal  colluded on prices of prestressing
steel. Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal got the biggest single
fine of 276.5 million euros. Total fines for units of the group
are about 315 million euros, the company said.  
 “It is amazing how such a significant number of companies
abused nearly the entire European construction market for such a
long time and for such a vital product,” said  Joaquin Almunia ,
the EU’s antitrust commissioner, in an e-mailed statement today.
“This was almost as if they were acting in a planned economy.”  
 European steelmakers, recovering from the worst crisis in
60 years, face slowing orders from the construction industry and
automakers as the regional debt crisis and rollbacks in state
spending cut demand. Companies are also attempting to increase
prices as they look to pass on surging raw material costs
following the collapse of a four-decade-old system that fixed
 iron ore  prices annually.  
 ‘Unsustainable Price Levels’  
 “What people should understand on the back of this is that
when an industry succeeds in imposing unsustainable price levels
onto its customers they have means to fight back,” said
 Christian Georges , an analyst at Olivetree Securities Ltd. in
London. “The EU is increasingly available, as well, since the
competition watchdog has been greatly reinforced in recent
years.”  
 Voestalpine, Austria’s biggest steelmaker, was fined 22
million euros and Finland’s  Rautaruukki Oyj  was asked to pay 4.7
million euros. Italian company Redaelli Tecna SpA, a unit of
Severstal’s wire-making subsidiary Severstal Metiz since July
2008, was fined 6.3 million euros.  
 Natalia Ivanova, a spokeswoman for Severstal in Moscow,
said she couldn’t immediately comment.  
 Voestalpine said today it will appeal the fine, adding that
it “has never been involved in the prestressing steel cartel.”  
 Jean Lasar , a Luxembourg-based spokesman for ArcelorMittal,
said the company will “review the decision in detail and
respond within the time limits provided.”  
 ‘Subsidiary Companies’  
 A first review of the commission’s announcement today
“suggests the fines imposed on subsidiary companies of the
group amount to approximately 315 million euros,” ArcelorMittal
said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Rautaruukki “will examine the grounds for the commission
decision and evaluate any further action warranted,” the
company said in a statement today. The fines concern a former
unit, it said.  
 The Brussels-based commission, which has already imposed
1.5 billion euros in cartel fines this year, said it reduced the
penalties for three steelmakers who claimed they couldn’t pay
the full amount.  
 While the EU will have “no sympathy” for cartelists,
“inability-to-pay claims will be accepted only when it is clear
the fine would send the company into bankruptcy, which is rare
even in the current difficult times,” said Almunia.  
 The commission, which can fine companies as much as 10
percent of sales, considers a company’s sales in the last year
before a cartel ends, the seriousness, duration and geographic
scope of the cartel when setting its fines.  
 ‘Inability to Pay’  
 “Although only three of 13 inability-to-pay applications
were granted, it still suggests that the bar may not be as high
as first thought for this type of reduction,” said  Matthew Readings , a partner at law firm Shearman & Sterling LLP in
London, who are not involved.  
 ArcelorMittal  previously said three current and two former
subsidiaries faced charges for alleged price-fixing of
prestressing steel from European Union. The units concerned were
ArcelorMittal Wire France, ArcelorMittal Verderio and
ArcelorMittal Fontaine, as well as former Spanish ArcelorMittal
units Galycas and Emesa that were sold in 2004, according to the
company’s 2009 annual  report . Spanish subsidiaries were today
fined 40.8 million euros for their part in the cartel that ran
until 2002, the commission said.  
 Prestressing steel consists of metal wire and strands made
of wire rods that helps reinforce concrete to make balconies,
bridges and beams.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        