-- Harrah's to Build Retail Strip in Las Vegas in 2011, CEO Says
-- Beth Jinks
-- 2010-06-30T18:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/harrah-s-to-build-delayed-las-vegas-retail-strip-with-ferris-wheel-in-2011.html

          
          
             Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. , the
world’s  biggest casino company , plans to build a postponed
retail development next year between its Flamingo and O’Sheas
casinos in Las Vegas that includes a giant Ferris wheel.  
 The street of bars, restaurants, shops and entertainment
will cost “a lot less” than $1 billion and revives the Project
Linq development first envisioned in 2006, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Gary Loveman  said in an interview.  
 Harrah’s has “dusted off” the plans in a bid to draw more
visitors to the neighboring casinos as Las Vegas begins to
recover from a record two-year slump in gambling and room rates.
Loveman sees “modestly encouraging trends in gaming,” and an
improvement in the convention business in 2011.  
 “The city doesn’t need more hotel rooms certainly, the
city doesn’t need more casino square footage,” Loveman said.
“We have a bunch of assets collected around one central place,
and some people are already there because they’re residents
there, but a lot of people aren’t so we need something that
draws them into our neighborhood.”  
 Las Vegas-based Harrah’s is “seeking the right way” to
build a sports arena in the city, after proposals requiring
public funding were rejected, Loveman said.  
 Paulson Investment  
 Harrah’s $3 billion in cash and available credit and
reduction of more than $5 billion in debt that averted a
potential default allows it to embark on the retail development
and other growth opportunities.  
 This month,  John Paulson’s  Paulson & Co. hedge fund agreed
to acquire a 9.9 percent equity stake in Harrah’s by exchanging
bonds he acquired at a discount. Harrah’s earlier offered
creditors new bonds at a discount for their old notes, bought
back other debt for less than face value, and extended
maturities on $5.5 billion in loans.  
 Harrah’s has sought bids this year for its Rio All-Suite
Hotel & Casino since acquiring Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino
from default in February. The deal gave Harrah’s a Strip
property neighboring its other resorts for less than it would
cost to build one.  
 “Credible parties have expressed an interest in the Rio,
and we have had discussions with them about it and so far we
have nothing more to report,” Loveman said. “You’re interested
at selling it at certain prices, you’re not interested in
selling it at others and we’ll see what happens. So far there
obviously hasn’t been a match.”  
 World Series of Poker  
 Bidders are pricing offers with “haircuts” for Rio losing
the Harrah’s-owned World Series of Poker tournament and its
customer loyalty plan, Loveman said.  
 “That may not be an attractive sale for us,” he said.
“It may be much better for us to just keep doing our thing at
the Rio.”  
 Loveman reiterated Harrah’s interest in developing a slot
casino in Ohio, where the company acquired a racetrack, and
entering Macau, China, the world’s biggest casino hub.
Massachusetts, which is considering allowing casinos, would be
“a very big opportunity,” Loveman said.  
 Leon Black’s   Apollo Management LP  and David Bonderman’s TPG
Inc. took Harrah’s private for $30.7 billion including debt and
transaction costs in January 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in Las Vegas at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        