-- Art Addicts Prowl for Next Koons in Younger New York Galleries
-- Katya Kazakina
-- 2010-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/art-addicts-prowl-for-next-koons-in-younger-new-york-galleries.html

          
          
             Amir Shariat , chief executive
officer of financing and advisory firm  Auctor Capital Partners
Ltd.  in London, prowls for art much as he does for stock.  
 In 2005, the collector noticed a colorful stripe painting
by little-known artist  Anselm Reyle  at the Art Basel fair in
Switzerland. He liked the painter’s new take on pop art and
bought the work for 10,000 euros ($12,170). In the following two
years, the artist’s career took off, with another of his stripe
paintings fetching $634,956 at Christie’s in London in 2007.  
 “To discover artists before they become famous, that’s the
thrill for me,” Shariat, 38, says. “It’s like spotting a great
stock that nobody else thought of.”  
 Today, collectors are flocking to small galleries in
Berlin, London and New York to play the art market as Shariat
does. Rather than paying a few million to $100 million for a
 Picasso  painting, they’re buying the works of emerging artists
for $1,000 to $20,000.  
 In New York, where galleries in Chelsea have dominated, new
art outposts have been opening downtown on the Lower East Side
and in the East Village.  
 Rental , a gallery on the Lower East Side that has mounted
exhibitions of cutting-edge art from Cologne, London and Warsaw,
is moving a few blocks to Orchard Street in September to triple
its size to 2,800 square feet (260 square meters).  
 Another hot spot,  Museum 52  in the East Village, sold out
paintings from Julia Goldman’s debut solo show within a week
last October at prices from $2,500 to $6,000.  
 “Collectors don’t have to rack their brains about whether
they can afford pieces of emerging art,” says Augusto Arbizo,
director of gallery  Eleven Rivington  on the Lower East Side.
“They are already cheap.”  
 Key Is Research  
 Most artists will never transcend the lower rungs of the
market. The key to finding a winner, Shariat says, is research.
Visit as many art openings, fairs and museum exhibitions as you
can. Talk to dealers, artists and collectors about the art, not
about making money from it. Dealers frown on speculators and
prefer to do business with buy-and-hold collectors.  
 And watch for signs of a rising star, such as artwork shown
at the  Whitney Biennial  or the Art Basel fair. The website
 oneartworld.com , which tracks shows at more than 2,000 galleries
by about 38,000 artists around the world, is a good place to
start exploring.  
 “Like everything in life, you need to be dedicated to be
successful,” says Shariat, whose collection includes several
hundred pieces, mostly from artists who weren’t established at
the time he bought their work. “Instead of going to play soccer
in the park, I see five or six art shows during the weekend.”  
 Art That Challenges  
 Andrew Ong , an architectural designer based in New York,
has discovered up-and-comers by seeking out art that challenges
him. When he began collecting in the 1980s, he coveted sculpture
by established minimalist artists  Dan Flavin  and  Donald Judd 
that he couldn’t afford.  
 Instead, he bought one of four identical stainless-steel
sculptures titled “Fisherman Golfer” by a relative unknown
named  Jeff Koons  at a Los Angeles gallery for $15,000 in 1986.
In May of this year, another of the sculptures, which ended up
in the collection of the late best-selling author  Michael Crichton , fetched $434,500 at  Christie’s  in New York.  
 “I bought that Koons because it was really interesting and
new,” Ong, 54, says. “It was the art of my generation.”  
 Ong has bought early works by  Richard Prince  and  Felix Gonzalez-Torres  for a fraction of what they would cost now.
Ong’s advice to new collectors: Follow your eyes and ignore
what’s fashionable at the moment.  
 “To have a strong feeling about something -- loving or
hating it -- that’s what I am looking for,” he says.  
 To contact the reporter of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Anselm Reyle Painting  
                       
                         
                           Sotheby's via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Anselm Reyle, B. 1970, "Untitled." In less than two years, the colorful, stripe-rich paintings of Anselm Reyle have vaulted him from modest success to six-figure star. The metamorphosis says a lot about the contemporary-art market. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Anselm Reyle, B. 1970, "Untitled." In less than two years, the colorful, stripe-rich paintings of Anselm Reyle have vaulted him from modest success to six-figure star. The metamorphosis says a lot about the contemporary-art market. Source: Sotheby's via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Fisherman Golfer"  
                       
                         
                           Christie's via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Fisherman Golfer" by Jeff Koons. Executed in 1986, this work is number three from an edition of three plus one artist's proof. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Fisherman Golfer" by Jeff Koons. Executed in 1986, this work is number three from an edition of three plus one artist's proof. Source: Christie's via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jeff Koons  
                       
                         
                           Michael Crabtree/Bloomberg News. 
                         
                         American contemporary artist and sculptor Jeff Koons. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     American contemporary artist and sculptor Jeff Koons.  Photographer: Michael Crabtree/Bloomberg News.  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
