-- Asia Day Ahead: Goldman Shorted Bonds, CDOs, Cohn Says; Federer Defeated
-- Tim Smith
-- 2010-06-30T21:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/asia-day-ahead-goldman-shorted-bonds-cdos-cohn-says-federer-defeated.html

          
          
             The following are the top Asia stories
for the day.
TOP STORIES/MOST READ ON BLOOMBERG
Bankers Who Broke Big Dig With Swaps Gone Awry Get Paid for Fix  
 The same bankers who sold Massachusetts interest-rate swaps
that blew up the debt financing for the so-called Big Dig road
and tunnel project in Boston -- costing taxpayers $100 million -
- are getting even more money to fix what they broke.
Nigeria Withdraws From International Soccer Events (Update2)  
 Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan withdrew the national
soccer team from all international tournaments for two years
following its elimination from the World Cup during the first
round.
Goldman Sachs Shorted 1% of its Mortgage Bonds, CDOs, Cohn Says  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bought protection against a
decline in just 1 percent of the mortgage- backed securities the
company underwrote since late 2006, according to President and
Chief Operating Officer Gary Cohn.
Federer Beaten by Berdych in Wimbledon Quarterfinal; Nadal Wins  
 Roger Federer lost to Tomas Berdych in the quarterfinals at
Wimbledon today, the six-time champion’s earliest exit at the
All England Club since 2002.
MAIN ANALYST UPGRADES/DOWNGRADES:
*Westfield Group Raised to ‘Neutral’ at Credit Suisse
*Stockland Raised to ‘Neutral’ at Credit Suisse
*Mirvac Group Raised to ‘Outperform’ at Credit Suisse
*Ten Network Raised to ‘Buy’ at UBS
*Lee & Man Paper Cut to ‘Neutral’ at Credit Suisse
*CJ o Shopping Cut to ‘Neutral’ at Credit Suisse
*Cheil Industries Cut to ‘Neutral’ at Nomura
ASIAN MARKETS  
 The Nikkei 225 futures contract due in September fell 190
to 9,355. The Hang Seng Index futures contract for July fell 108
to 20,079. The S&P/ASX 200 Index futures contract due in
September fell 76 to 4,262 at 6:59 a.m. in Sydney.  
 U.S. Stocks Drop as S&P 500 Posts 12% Loss for Second Quarter  
 U.S. stocks fell, extending the first quarterly drop in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in more than a year, after Moody’s
Investors Service’s warning that it may downgrade Spain revived
concern about sovereign debt and snuffed out an earlier rally.
Longer-Term Treasury Yields Drop as Spain’s Rating Faces Review  
 Longer-term Treasury yields fell for a fourth day after
Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut Spain’s Aaa credit
rating, adding to concern Europe’s sovereign- debt crisis may
slow the global economic recovery.
Euro Rises Versus Dollar, Yen After Europe Banks Seek Less Cash  
 The euro rose against the dollar and the yen after the
European Central Bank said it would lend banks less than some
analysts estimated, spurring optimism that funding pressures
among financial institutions are easing.
European Stocks Fall on Weaker-Than-Forecast U.S. Jobs Report  
 European stocks slid after a private report showed U.S.
companies added fewer jobs than forecast this month,
overshadowing a European Central Bank loan tender that indicated
the region’s lenders may be becoming less reliant on central
bank funding.
German Government Bonds Open Higher; Bund Yield Falls to 2.55%  
 German government bonds opened higher, sending the yield on
the benchmark 10-year bund three basis points lower to 2.55
percent as of 7:02 a.m. in London.
Crude Oil Falls After U.S. Gasoline Supplies Unexpectedly Gain  
 Crude oil fell, capping the first quarterly decline since
2008, as a government report showed that U.S. gasoline
stockpiles increased for the first time in eight weeks and crude
supplies declined.
Gold Rises as Fragile U.S. Jobs Market Spurs Demand for Haven  
 Gold rose, capping the biggest quarterly gain in more than
two years, as signs of a struggling U.S. labor market and a
fragile economic recovery stoked demand for the metal as a store
of value.
HIGHLIGHTS FROM NEWSPAPERS:
Australia Pacific LNG Project Head Changes Job, Review Says  
 Page Moxon was named head of the Australia Pacific
liquefied natural gas project being developed by Origin Energy
Ltd. and ConocoPhillips as Todd Creeger moves on after 18 months
in the role, the Australian Financial Review reported, without
saying where it got the information. Creeger has been promoted
to head ConocoPhillips’ broader operations in Australia, the
report said.  
          
          


  


        