-- Stocks, Commodities, Dollar Drop on Recovery Concern
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-07-01T20:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/asian-stocks-won-drop-on-concern-recovery-is-faltering-bond-risk-climbs.html

          
          
             Stocks , commodities and the dollar
slumped as data on manufacturing, jobless claims and home sales
fueled concern the economic recovery is faltering. The yen
surged to a seven-month high versus the U.S. currency.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell for the fourth
straight day, losing 0.3 percent to 1,027.37 at 4 p.m. in New
York, its lowest close since Oct. 2, 2009, after sinking as much
as 1.9 percent earlier.  The MSCI World Index  of 24 developed
nations slipped 0.4 percent to a 10-month low. Oil and copper
tumbled at least 2.5 percent. The euro rallied against the
dollar as a Spanish bond sale met targets and pessimism
surrounding European banks diminished. Gold tumbled.  
 The slide in riskier assets came as reports showed
manufacturing growth slowed in China, Europe and the U.S., while
American jobless claims unexpectedly rose to 472,000 last week.
Pending sales of existing U.S. homes fell at twice the rate
economists forecast as the absence of a tax credit hurt demand.
The  S&P 500  has lost 16 percent from its 2010 high and yesterday
completed its first quarterly drop in more than a year.  
 “It’s a data-dependent market, the leading indicators are
turning down and growth is slowing,” said  Mike Morcos , senior
money manager at Old Second Wealth Management in Aurora,
Illinois, which oversees about $1.1 billion. “It now turns out
the recovery is weaker than the market thought earlier in the
year.”  
 Bank Estimates  
 Financial  shares  in the S&P 500 slumped 0.9 percent as a
group, extending their loss since April 14 to 19.9 percent,
after Bank of America Corp. analysts reduced second-quarter
earnings estimates for Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc.  
 U.S. equities trimmed declines in afternoon trading amid
speculation the recent drop has made stocks cheap compared with
earnings. The S&P 500’s price-to-earnings ratio has decreased to
less than 15, its lowest level in about a year.  
 At its low for the day, the S&P 500’s was trading with a
PEG ratio, or its price-earnings multiple using 2009 profit
divided by forecast income growth over the next three years, of
0.78, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The indicator was
a favored tool of Fidelity Investments fund manager  Peter Lynch 
who claimed stocks trading with a PEG as high as 1 were fairly
valued.  
 Stock returns  trailed  bonds by the widest margin in nine
years during the first six months of 2010 on signs growing
government budget deficits may stunt the global economic
recovery. A monthly Labor Department report on non-farm payrolls
tomorrow is forecast to show the unemployment rate probably rose
in June as the U.S. lost jobs for the first time this year.  
 Yield Curve  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Treasury 10-year
notes over 2-year debt fell to the lowest level since October
amid concern the slowing rebound will trigger deflation.  
 The 10-year note yield stayed below 3 percent for a third
day after breaching that level this week for the first time in
more than a year. The difference between 10- and 2-year note
debt, known as the yield curve, dropped for a fourth day to 2.32
percentage points and touched 2.28 percentage points, the lowest
level since Oct. 2.  
 “The information is horrific and expectations for how weak
the economy is have been underestimated,” said  Thomas Tucci ,
head of U.S. government bond trading at Royal Bank of Canada in
New York, one of 18 firms that trade directly with the Federal
Reserve. “The market is defensive because of expectations for
non-farm payrolls. Construction numbers, housing numbers and
other numbers have all been horrific.”  
 Euro Rallies  
 The euro rallied 2.4 percent to $1.2531, the most since May
10. The European Central Bank said it will lend banks 111.2
billion euros ($136.5 billion) for six days to help them cope
with the expiration of its landmark 12-month loan today. Banks
need to repay 442 billion euros in 12-month loans, the biggest
amount ever awarded by the ECB. Banks asked for 131.9 billion
euros in three-month loans yesterday, less than economists
expected.  
 Spain sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of five-year
notes, with demand falling to 1.7 times the amount of securities
offered, from 2.35 times at the previous auction on May 6. The
notes were sold at an average yield of 3.657 percent, compared
with 3.532 percent a May 6 auction. The country’s top credit
ranking yesterday was put on review for a possible cut by
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited  “deteriorating” growth
prospects, challenges in meeting deficit targets and the risks
posed by higher borrowing costs.  
 “They did fill it at pretty much the maximum of their
guidance, and when you consider the backdrop, you’d have to say
that’s encouraging,”  Sean Maloney , a fixed-income strategist at
Nomura International Plc in London, said of Spain’s bond sale.  
 The dollar retreated against 12 of 16 major currencies,
losing 1 percent to 87.59 yen.  
 Europe, Asian Stocks  
 More than 11 shares declined for every one that advanced in
the Europe’s Stoxx 600 Index, which slumped 2.5 percent.
Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest bank, and Credit Agricole SA
of France lost at least 3.6 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company, decreased 3.4 percent in London.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  lost 0.7 percent. Nissan Motor
Co., which gets 13 percent of its revenue in Europe, slid 3.2
percent in Tokyo. China’s Shanghai Composite Index decreased 1
percent. Markets in Hong Kong are closed today for a public
holiday.  
 Crude oil for August delivery declined 3.5 percent to
$72.95 a barrel in New York, the lowest settlement price since
June 8.  
 Copper futures for September delivery dropped 2.5 percent
to $2.877 a pound on the Comex in New York.  
 Gold futures fell the most since February, with the metal
for delivery in August dropping 3.1 percent to $1,206.70 an
ounce in New York as signs that Europe’s financial industry may
be in better shape than investors estimated curbed the appeal of
the precious metal as a haven.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A trader makes a phone call in front of an electronic board. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Trevor Greetham, director of asset allocation at Fidelity International, talks about changes to his investment strategy.
     He speaks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
