-- Asian Stocks, Oil Fall on Global Recovery Concern
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-06-30T05:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/asian-stocks-oil-fall-on-concern-global-recovery-faltering-won-weakens.html

          
          
             Asian stocks declined to a three-
week low, oil fell for a third straight day and Korea’s won
weakened on concern that the global recovery is faltering.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  retreated 1.3 percent to 112.44
as of 2:02 p.m. in Tokyo, set for the lowest close since June 11
and finishing the worst first half in two years. Chinese stocks
fell to a 14-month low and South Korea’s won declined against
all major counterparts. Crude extended its drop since June 25 to
3.9 percent, the sharpest three-day slide in six weeks.  
 Shares extended a global rout as an unexpected drop in U.S.
consumer confidence added to concern sparked by the downward
revision of an economic indicator for China. President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. economy faces “headwinds” from Europe’s
debt crisis, while reports today and tomorrow may show gains in
U.S. business activity and Chinese manufacturing are moderating.  
 “Equity markets are concerned about a slowdown in U.S.
economic growth,” said  Khiem Do , Hong Kong-based head of multi-
asset strategy at Baring Asset Management (Asia) Ltd. which
oversees about $10 billion. “It’s not a bad thing that the
Chinese government is trying to cool down the economy, but it’s
having a negative impact on market sentiment.”  
 More than four stocks declined in the MSCI’s Asian gauge
for each one that advanced. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
lost 2 percent, while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 1.4
percent. The Kospi declined 0.9 percent in Seoul.  
 S&P Futures  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.2 percent.
The gauge yesterday slumped 3.1 percent to its lowest since Oct.
30 after the Conference Board’s gauge of confidence among U.S.
consumers slumped to 52.9 this month from a revised 62.7 in May.
Economists had forecast an increase to 62.5.  
 Nissan Motor Co. and  Canon Inc. , which get more than a
quarter of their revenue in the Americas, slid in Tokyo as a
stronger yen dented their profit outlooks.  Nissan  fell 0.6
percent while Canon declined 2.4 percent.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, sank
1.7 percent in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-
biggest mining company, lost 2.9 percent.  Mitsubishi Corp. ,
which trades commodities, fell 2.1 percent in Tokyo.  
 The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials tumbled
2.8 percent yesterday, the most since Aug. 14. Copper for three-
month delivery rebounded 0.2 percent to $6,505 a metric ton
today, after losing 5.5 percent yesterday, the most in six weeks.  
 Crude declined for a third day, falling below $76 a barrel
in New York, on concern a weakening global economic recovery
will slow growth in fuel demand.  
 “Crude has been shellacked due to confidence around the
world eroding,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director at
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney.  
 Mining Tax  
 Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said today “good
discussions” are continuing with the mining industry amid
speculation the government will unveil a compromise as soon as
today on its planned resource tax.  
 The outlook for commodities dimmed yesterday after the
Conference Board revised down its April leading economic index
for China to show the smallest gain in five months. That
triggered a global sell-off in riskier assets, with Chinese
stocks dropping the most in six weeks.  
 China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  fell 0.8 percent to a 14-
month low on concern economists will reduce growth forecasts for
the nation on policy tightening and Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Jiangxi Copper Co.  and Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co. lost at
least 3 percent after metal prices retreated.  Poly Real Estate
Group Co. , the second-largest developer by market value, dropped
as much as 2.5 percent.  
 Foxconn Loss  
 Taiwan’s  Taiex index  dropped 1.555 percent. Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co., the world’s largest electronics contract
manufacturer, slipped the most in three weeks after its unit
 Foxconn International Holdings Ltd.  forecast a wider first-half
loss. Foxconn slid 6.7 percent in Hong Kong trading to the
lowest since October.  
 “The view is spreading among investors that a recovery in
the global economy won’t be as easy as people had expected,”
said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $65 billion. “Moves
by countries around the world to tighten fiscal policies are
behind the plunge in markets.”  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. will say
today its U.S.  business barometer  fell to 59 this month from
59.7 in May, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
The Purchasing Managers’ Index for China dropped to 53.2 in June
from 53.9 in May, another survey showed before tomorrow’s data.  
 Weaker Won  
 South Korea’s won weakened 0.6 percent to 1,223.79 per
dollar, headed for its first quarterly loss in more than a year.
Malaysia’s ringgit dropped 0.2 percent to 3.2550 against the U.S.
currency. China and the U.S. are South Korea’s two largest
 export  markets.  
 “The situation at home and abroad is psychologically
vulnerable and stocks are not doing as well as we hoped,” said
 Ha Joon Woo , a currency dealer at Daegu Bank Ltd in Seoul.
“We’ll have to see if exporter demand to repatriate foreign
income can stop the slide.”  
 The won fell even as a Bank of Korea report today showed
South Korean manufacturers’ confidence held near a seven-year
high. The central bank said its  index  measuring expectations for
July stayed at 104, unchanged from June.  
 The yen traded near the strongest in more than eight years
against the euro and the highest in almost eight weeks against
the dollar amid higher demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  
 Double Dip?  
 Japan’s currency was at 108.10 per euro in Tokyo from
107.98 in New York yesterday, when it touched 107.32, the
strongest level since November 2001. The yen was at 88.52 per
dollar from 88.60. Yesterday it reached 88.29, the strongest
level since May 6. The euro fetched $1.2214 from $1.2188.  
 “Investors are growing more concerned about the global
recovery story, with talk of double-dip recession rising,” said
 Khoon Goh , a senior markets economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd.
in Wellington. “The dollar and the yen are back in favor as
‘safe-haven’ currencies.”  
 The cost of insuring Asian bonds against default rose to
the highest in three weeks, according to traders of credit-
default swaps.  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan added 5 basis points to 147 basis points
as of 8:17 a.m. in Singapore, the highest since June 10, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and CMA DataVision prices show.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Rocky Swift  in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        