-- Massey Energy's Bandmill Coal Plant in West Virginia Has Fire; No Injuries
-- Samantha Zee
-- 2010-06-30T03:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/massey-energy-s-bandmill-coal-plant-in-west-virginia-has-fire-no-injuries.html

          
          
             Massey Energy Co. ’s idled Bandmill
coal preparation plant in Logan County, West Virginia, is on
fire, the second blaze at the facility in less than a year.  
 The fire broke out at about 6:30 p.m. local time, Marilyn
Crosby, 911 Director for the county’s Office of Emergency
Services, said in a telephone interview. Nine fire departments
are tackling the blaze and trucking water to the site, she said.
No injuries were reported.  
 “They are dealing with it and no-one has been hurt,”
Crosby said. Workers were at the site when the fire started
alerted emergency services, she said. The plant, on Rum Creek
Road in Logan County, is in a non-residential “rural and
secluded area,” she said.  
 Massey, which is under investigation because of the April 5
explosion at its Upper Big Branch mine in West Virginia that
killed 29 miners, said last month it planned to restart the
Bandmill plant in September. The company has spent almost a year
rebuilding the plant after it was destroyed by fire in August.  
 Roger Hendriksen , a spokesman for Massey, didn’t
immediately return telephone calls or an e-mail seeking comment.  
 The plant is intended to process coal used in steelmaking
and for the type burned as fuel by power companies. The revamped
operation would have the capacity to process 1,200 tons of coal
an hour, serving four underground mines and two surface pits.  
 Richmond, Virginia-based Massey said in May it would change
the name of the Bandmill plant to Zigmond Processing.  
 After the explosion at the Upper Big Branch mine, which
has halted production, Massey said it plans to increase output
from its other operations.  
 Upper Big Branch is closed indefinitely as government
officials try to determine the cause of the April blast. Massey
planned to produce 1.6 million tons of metallurgical coal from
the underground mine this year at about $91 a ton.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Stratton  in Logan, West Virginia, at 
 chrisstratton2010@yahoo.com ;
 Samantha Zee  in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        