-- Massey Plant Blaze Is `Suspicious,' Will Be Investigated, Fire Chief Says
-- Samantha Zee
-- 2010-06-30T05:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/massey-plant-blaze-is-suspicious-will-be-investigated-fire-chief-says.html

          
          
             A second blaze at  Massey Energy
Co. ’s Bandmill coal preparation plant in Logan County, West
Virginia, in less than a year is being treated as
“suspicious,” the local fire chief said.  
 The fire broke out at about 6:15 p.m. local time yesterday
on one of the top two floors of the 12-storey plant, which is
idled while being rebuilt after a devastating fire in August.  
 “There was a shift change when the fire occurred, and we
are treating it as a suspicious fire,” Scott Beckett, fire
chief of the Logan City Fire Department, said in a telephone
interview. “A fire twice in a year in a $75 million building
means something isn’t right. The fire marshal will go in and do
a complete investigation.”  
 Massey, based in Richmond, Virginia, is under investigation
because of the April 5 explosion at its Upper Big Branch mine in
West Virginia that killed 29 miners. It said last month it
planned to restart the Bandmill plant in September.  
 Roger Hendriksen , a spokesman for Massey, didn’t
immediately return telephone calls or an e-mail seeking comment.  
 At least nine fire departments tackled the blaze yesterday
with assistance from a local mine rescue academy and Massey
emergency services crews, Beckett said. Firefighters contained
the fire within the top four floors of the structure and stopped
it from spreading, he said.  
 The fire was under control by about 10:30 p.m. local time.
“We did a building check by 11:15 p.m. and were good to
go,” Beckett said. Massey posted security guards at the site,
he said.  
 Remote Location  
 Extinguishing the blaze was made difficult by the plant’s
remote location, which meant water had to be trucked in, Beckett
said.  
 No injuries were reported, Marilyn Crosby, 911 director for
Logan County’s Office of Emergency Services, said in a telephone
interview earlier. The plant, on Rum Creek Road in Logan County,
is in a non-residential “rural and secluded area,” she said.  
 The Bandmill plant is intended to process coal used in
steelmaking and for the type burned as fuel by power companies.  
 The revamped operation would have the capacity to process
1,200 tons of coal an hour, serving four underground mines and
two surface pits.  Massey  said in May it would change the name of
the Bandmill plant to Zigmond Processing.  
 After the explosion in April at the Upper Big Branch mine,
which has halted production,  Massey  said it plans to increase
output from its other operations.  
 Upper Big Branch is closed indefinitely as government
officials try to determine the cause of the blast. Massey
planned to produce 1.6 million tons of metallurgical coal from
the underground mine this year at about $91 a ton.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Samantha Zee  in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        