-- AstraZeneca, Abbott, WebTech: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-30T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/astrazeneca-webtech-vermillion-playboy-lvmh-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             AstraZeneca Plc , the U.K.’s second-
largest drugmaker, won a U.S. court ruling that prevents
generic-drug makers from selling lower-cost copies of its
cholesterol medicine Crestor until 2016.  
 A patent on the active ingredient in Crestor is valid, U.S.
District Judge Joseph J. Farnan Jr. ruled yesterday in
Wilmington, Delaware. The judge rejected challenges by companies
including  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  that sought to
market copies of the medicine.  
 AstraZeneca, based in London, and patent partner  Shionogi &
Co. , based in Osaka, Japan, sued the generic drugmakers starting
in 2007 to stop them from marketing copies of Crestor in the
U.S. before its patent RE37,314 expires in 2016. Crestor logged
$4.5 billion in  sales  last year, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “The court’s decision reaffirms the strength of the
intellectual property protecting Crestor,” AstraZeneca Chief
Executive Officer David Brennan said in an e-mailed statement.
Teva officials didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  
 In a note to investors on June 11, Barclays Capital
analysts predicted AstraZeneca would win the validity ruling,
boosting the shares. The analysts also forecast “negative
growth” after 2016, when the Crestor patent expires.  
 Lawyers for companies including Petah Tikva, Israel-based
Teva and the Sandoz unit of Switzerland’s  Novartis AG  contended
AstraZeneca didn’t fully disclose details of earlier, similar
inventions in its application to U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  
 AstraZeneca lawyers said any omissions were the result of
mistakes on the application caused by “miscommunication and
mishandling,” and there was no intent to deceive officials.  
 The challengers also included  Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. , Apotex
Inc.,  Par Pharmaceutical Co. ,  Mylan Inc.  and  Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd.   
 The combined case is In re Rosuvastatin Calcium Patent
Litigation, 08-1949, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 Abbott Sues Mylan Over Plans to Market Generic Simcor Copies  
 Abbott Laboratories  sued  Mylan Inc.  in federal court in
Delaware, alleging infringement of eight patents and seeking to
block generic copies of the cholesterol drug Simcor.  
 Mylan, based in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, is accused of
infringing eight patents related to the simvastin/niacin
extended-release compound. The lawsuit was triggered by a
request Mylan sent to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to
make and sell a generic version before the patents expire.  
 Abbott asked the court to find that Mylan infringed, and to
order government agencies not to approve the production of the
generic drug by Mylan until after all the relevant patents
expire. The Abbott Park, Illinois-based company also seeks an
order barring Mylan from manufacturing and selling the generic
version during the life of the patents, or any additional
periods of exclusivity to which Abbott is entitled.  
 Abbott requested that the court award it damages if Mylan
makes, sells or imports a generic version of the drug before it
is legally entitled.  
 The patent holder is represented by  Mary B. Graham  of
Wilmington’s  Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell LLP , and  William
F. Lee ,  Vinita Ferrera  and  Hollie L. Baker  of Boston’s  Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP .  
 The case is Abbott Laboratories v. Mylan Inc., 1:10-cv-
00559-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 WebTech, Innovative Global Systems Settle Patent Dispute  
 WebTech Wireless Inc. , a Vancouver-based provider of
vehicle-tracking systems, said it resolved a patent-infringement
lawsuit.  
 Innovative Global Systems LLC of Rock Hill, South Carolina,
dropped its complaint, WebTech said in a statement. No
settlement payments or royalties are part of the agreement,
WebTech said.  
 IGS sued WebTech in federal court in Tyler, Texas, in
February, accusing the company of infringing five patents
related to communication between vehicles. The WebTech Wireless
Quadrant System and OBD II Gateway were accused of infringing
the patents.  
 The case is Innovative Global Systems LLC v. Teletrac Inc.,
6:10-cv-00040-LED, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Tyler).  
 Hall of Fame Exhibition Honors Food-Technology Inventors  
 The  National Inventors Hall of Fame  set up a yearlong
exhibit honoring inventors of food-related technology, the
Alexandria, Virginia-based organization said in a  statement .  
 Among the inventors honored is Roy J. Plunkett, the chemist
whose patent 2,230,654 covers the polymer tetrafluoroethlyene,
known as Teflon and sold by the  DuPont Co.  for use on non-stick
cookware. Also featured are Lorenzo Langstroth, who created the
modern beehive, peanut scientist George Washington Carver, crop
scientist Luther Burbank and Norbert Rillieux, who invented
processes used to refine sugar.  
 The museum is open daily except Sundays and federal
holidays and admission is free.  
 Vermillion to Get Patent for Alzheimer’s Diagnosis Test  
 Vermillion Inc. , a developer of diagnostic tests for human
diseases, said it’s on the verge of receiving a patent for a
test used to diagnose Alzheimer’s disease.  
 The Fremont, California-based company said in a  statement 
yesterday it received what is known as a “notice of allowance”
from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. When this notice is
sent, the patent is typically issued shortly thereafter.  
 The patent covers biomarker combinations for the diagnosis
and management of Alzheimer’s disease and the measurement of
these markers by a variety of methods including mass
spectrometry and immunoassay.  
 According to the  2010 report  from the Chicago-based
 Alzheimer’s Association , an advocacy group, about 5.3 million
Americans have Alzheimer’s disease, with one in eight people age
65 or older affected.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Playboy Sues Drake Over ‘Fallin’ in Love’ Copyright  
 Playboy Enterprises Inc. , the Chicago-based adult-
entertainment company, sued  Aubrey Drake Graham  for copyright
infringement.  
 Drake, who uses just his last name as a stage name, is a
Canadian-born actor and singer. He is accused of infringing the
copyright for the song “ Fallin’ in Love ,” which was released
in 1975 by the group Hamilton, Joe Frank & Reynolds.  
 Playboy owns the copyright to the song.  
 The alleged infringement occurred in Drake’s recording
“ Best I Ever had ,” according to the complaint filed June 25 in
federal court in Los Angeles.  
 Codefendants with Drake are Universal Music Group Inc. and
 Cash Money Records Inc.  of New Orleans, which are accused of
marketing and distributing the disputed recording.  
 Playboy asked the court for an award of attorney fees and
litigation costs, money damages, and an order barring future
infringement by the defendants. Additionally, the company asked
for an order for recall and destruction of all infringing works.  
 The company is represented by Douglas L. Johnson, Neville
Lawrence Johnson and James Timothy Ryan of Johnson & Johnson LLP
of Beverly Hills, California.  
 The case is Playboy Enterprises Inc., v. Drake, 2:10-cv-
04750-MMM-RC, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California.  
 Culturecom’s ‘Dragon & Tiger Heroes’ Series Licensed for Film  
 Culturecom Holdings Ltd.  is licensing one of its comic-book
series for a movie based on the content, the company said
yesterday.  
 The Hong Kong-based publisher of the “Chinese Hero” and
“Drunken Fist” series is licensing “Dragon & Tiger Heroes”
to a company controlled by Chen Man Lung, Culturecom’s executive
director.  
 Azerbaijani News Portals Infringe Copyrights, Agency Head Says  
 Only 30 percent of the news stories published at
Azerbaijani news portals are original, with the rest copied from
other sources, Trend News Agency  reported .  
 Speaking at a seminar on copyright law, the chairman of the
Azerbaijani Copyright Agency urged journalists to respect
copyright law, according to Trend News Agency.  
 He said news is the property of the author “if the
information has the characteristic features, if it transforms
into a creative product, and if it contains commentary and
analysis,” Trend News Agency reported.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Vuitton Complaint Gets Artworks Removed from Japanese Museum  
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  successfully demanded
the removal of artworks made from fake Louis Vuitton products
from a museum in Kobe, Japan, Kyodo News  reported .  
 The artworks, all shaped like locusts and created by
Kyoto’s Mitsuhiro Okamoto, were intended to reflect society’s
appetite for the fakes, the artist told Kyodo News.  
 The name of the show is “Batta-mon,” which means “locust
stuff” in the dialect used in Kyoto and Osaka, and is slang for
“knockoff,” Kyodo reported.  
 In its demand for removal, Paris-based Vuitton told the
Kobe Fashion Museum that Okamoto’s pieces damaged its luxury
image because they were made from fakes, according to Kyodo.  
 U.K.’s Communications Regulator to Permit Product Placement  
 Ofcom , the independent regulator for U.K. communications
industries, established new rules permitting paid product-
placements in television programs, the U.K.’s Telegraph
newspaper  reported .  
 The rules bar product-placements on children’s news,
consumer affairs and religious programs, according to the
Telegraph.  
 Placement of baby formula, medicine, tobacco, alcohol,
gambling and foods high in fat, salt or sugar is banned, and
advertisers are barred from paying to influence story lines, the
Telegraph reported.  
 Paid references on radio shows to products may be
authorized in the future, the newspaper reported.  
 Breton Buckwheat Flour Gets Geographic Origin Protection  
 A type of French flour from the buckwheat plant received
geographic-origin protection from the European Union, according
to  a regulation published June 25  in the Official Journal of the
European Union.  
 The flour,  Farine de blé noir de Bretagne , is made by
grinding the seeds of the  buckwheat plant  grown in Brittany. The
flour is mainly used for  crêpes and gallettes , once peasant food
and now specialty dishes of the region.  
 According to specifications published in the journal, such
flour has been produced in Brittany since the 14th century, with
most people in the region eating buckwheat crêpes once a week.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        