-- Matthews's Gao Stockpiles Noodles as Top U.S. China Fund Bets on Consumers
-- Charles Stein
-- 2010-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/matthews-s-gao-stockpiles-noodles-as-top-u-s-china-fund-bets-on-consumers.html

          
          
             Richard Gao  said he grew up in China
never expecting to own his own car. Today, the largest holding
in his $2.7 billion  Matthews China Fund  is Dongfeng Motor Group
Co., whose stock more than quadrupled last year as more cars
were sold in China than in the U.S.  
 Gao, 42, has outperformed all other China funds in the U.S.
over the past decade by buying shares of Chinese companies that
rely on domestic growth and avoiding most exporters. While the
government’s willingness to let the yuan appreciate may curb
overseas sales, it won’t stop Chinese consumers from spending
their growing incomes on cars, real estate and noodles, he said.  
 “More and more, Asia’s growth and China’s growth will come
from within,” Gao said in a telephone interview. Profits will
be squeezed at exporters of lower-cost products such as toys,
shoes and certain electronics, Gao said.  
 Matthews China posted an average annual gain of 17 percent
in the 10 years ended May 31, best among U.S. China funds and
fourth-highest among more than 1,000 stock funds that invest
internationally, according to Chicago-based research firm
Morningstar Inc.  
 China said June 19 it will allow a more flexible yuan,
signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-old peg to the U.S.
dollar. The move is aimed at curbing inflation and increasing
the purchasing power of China’s households, which may help
companies that supply the domestic market.  
 ‘Confident’  
 “The Chinese are increasingly confident about their
ability to adjust from a low-value-added export economy to one
that has got domestic factors at the core,”  Jim O’Neill , the
London-based chief global economist for Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., told Bloomberg Television after China disclosed its policy
change.  
 Gao is counting on rising household incomes and the
migration of 15 million to 18 million people annually into
cities to bolster the domestic market further. Disposable income
per worker, adjusted for inflation, will grow almost 9 percent
this year in China, according to IHS Global Insight, a
Lexington, Massachusetts-based research firm.  
 Over the next 10 years, 350 million to 400 million Chinese
could enter the middle class, said  Katherine Schapiro , a San
Francisco-based portfolio manager at Sentinel Asset Management
Inc.  
 “That’s a whole new country of potential buying power,”
Schapiro said in a June 22 interview with Bloomberg Television.  
 Those consumers, Gao says, will spend on financial
services, housing, technology and noodles.  
 Tingyi Cayman Islands Holding Corp ., the fund’s fourth-
biggest stake as of March 31, is the world’s largest instant-
noodle maker and has a 43 percent share of China’s market. The
Tianjin-based company also sells water and teas.  
 Noodle Network  
 The firm’s noodle sales rose 22 percent in the first
quarter, aided by a distribution network that allows Tingyi to
sell its products throughout China, Gao said. Living standards
in the nation’s interior “are catching up to the coastal big
cities,” he said.  
 Gao prefers to invest in small and midsize companies in the
early stages of expansion and hold them as they become dominant.  
 One of Gao’s investments, Shenzhen-based homebuilder  China
Vanke Co. , has been in the fund for more than 10 years, he said,
as it grew from a small business to the country’s biggest
publicly traded property developer.  
 In the 10 years ended May 31,  China Vanke  shares returned
an average of 39 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
stock fell 18 percent this year as China’s central bank
tightened lending standards to counter a surge in housing
prices.  
 No ‘Overheating’  
 While real estate markets in some cities have seen price
spikes, Gao said, “overheating is still not a big concern for
us.”  
 Not everyone is as sanguine about China’s consumer economy
as Gao. Fund managers  James Chanos  and  Marc Faber , Citigroup
Inc. economists  Willem Buiter  and  Shen Minggao , and Harvard
University professor  Kenneth Rogoff  have warned of a real-estate
crash if the government can’t control property prices that have
risen more than 10 percent from a year earlier for four straight
months.  
 Faber, publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom Report, said in
a May interview with Bloomberg Television that China’s economy
will slow and may “crash” within a year as declines in stock
and commodity prices signal the property bubble is set to burst.  
 ‘Treadmill to Hell’  
 China is “on a treadmill to hell” because it’s hooked on
property development for driving growth, Chanos said in April.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  has fallen 26 percent this
year through yesterday. The Conference Board yesterday revised
its leading economic index for China to show the smallest gain
in five months in April, which contributed to the biggest sell-
off in Chinese stocks in more than a month.  
 “Every time the Chinese government tries to cool the
economy, investors are afraid they will overshoot,” said  Uri Landesman,  president of Platinum Partners LLP, a New York hedge
fund, in a telephone interview, explaining the fall of Chinese
stocks this year.  
 Matthews China Fund gained 0.4 percent through June 28,
compared with an average loss of 5.6 percent by stock funds with
at least half their holdings in China, according to Morningstar.  
 Matthews International Capital Management LLC, which Gao
joined in 1997, had 11 mutual funds and $12.1 billion in assets
as of May 31. The San Francisco-based firm has focused on
industries that can benefit from the rising wealth of Asian
consumers since it was founded in 1991.  
 Gao was raised in China and received a bachelor’s degree in
literature from Guangdong University of Foreign Studies in
Guangzhou and a master’s of business from Dominican University
of California in San Rafael. He’s run the China fund since 1999.  
 Dongfeng Motors  
 As a child, “I never imagined I could own my own car,” he
said. Last year, 13.1 million cars and light trucks were sold in
China, compared with 10.4 million in the United States,
according to IHS Global Insight.  
 Dongfeng Motors , a Wuhan-based carmaker, represents 3
percent of Matthews China Fund. The company has joint ventures
with non-Chinese automakers including Japan’s Nissan and Honda.  
 The Chinese economy expanded 12 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier. Growth may moderate over 2010 as
the effects of stimulus measures fade and the government acts to
cool the real estate market. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
expect the Chinese economy to expand 10 percent this year and
9.3 percent in 2011.  
 O’Neill forecasts that the yuan will appreciate by 5
percent against the U.S. dollar by the end of the year. Chinese
authorities have prevented the currency from strengthening since
July 2008 to help exporters cope with sliding demand triggered
by the global financial crisis.  
 Currency Policy  
 The currency appreciated 21 percent in the three years
after a peg to the dollar was scrapped in July 2005 and replaced
by a managed float against a basket of currencies including the
euro and the Japanese yen.  
 A stronger yuan may hurt the competitiveness of China’s
exporters, who already had to increase pay to pacify unhappy
workers. Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Foxconn
Technology Group, the maker of iPhones for Apple Inc., raised
wages this year at their Chinese plants as a result of labor
unrest. Foxconn acted on June 6 after at least 10 Chinese
employees killed themselves in 2010.  
 “China is going to achieve a soft landing,” Gao said.  
 Gao will buy exporters if they are competitive globally and
make good products, he said. His third-largest holding,
Shenzhen-based  ZTE Corp ., sells half of its phone equipment
outside China, Bloomberg data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'The Chinese are increasingly confident about their ability to adjust from a low-value-added export economy to one that has got domestic factors at the core,' said Jim O’Neill, the London-based chief global economist for Goldman Sachs Group. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
