-- Tauron Drops in Warsaw Trading Debut After $1.2 Billion Initial Share Sale
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-06-30T15:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/tauron-drops-on-first-warsaw-trading-day-after-1-2-billion-initial-sale.html

          
          
             Tauron Polska Energia SA, Poland’s
second-largest utility, dropped on its first day of Warsaw
trading in the worst bourse debut among companies sold by the
country’s government in the past year.  
 Tauron declined as much as 2.3 percent to 5.01 zloty and
closed at 5.05 zloty, compared with the initial public offering
price of 5.13 zloty. Poland sold 52 percent of Tauron for 4.21
billion zloty ($1.2 billion) this month as part of a plan to
speed up asset sales to finance the budget deficit. The shares
were sold near the bottom of the range initially considered by
the government after Europe’s debt crisis made it harder to
raise money from investors.  
 “The market sentiment didn’t help the stock debut and also
the company isn’t as attractive as the ones that the government
sold earlier, particularly when we take into account Tauron’s
huge investment plans,” said  Kazimierz Szpak , who helps manage
the equivalent of $1.5 billion at KBC TFI SA in Warsaw.  
 The  benchmark WIG20 Index  of stocks fell for a third day
today, retreating 0.2 percent and closing at a one-month low
amid concern about the strength of the global recovery. The
measure has lost 4.9 percent this year.  
 Tauron’s share sale followed the 8.1 billion-zloty May IPO
of state-owned insurer  PZU SA , Europe’s biggest since December
2007. PZU, the largest publicly traded insurer in central
Europe, surged 15 percent on its first day of trading on the
Warsaw Stock Exchange.  
 PGE SA , the power utility that went public last year,
jumped 13 percent at its debut and  Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA ,
which the government sold in June 2009, rose 20 percent.  
 Warsaw Exchange  
 KGHM Polska Miedz SA , the state-controlled copper producer
that bought half of the 10 percent stake it had sought during
the IPO, plans to buy more Tauron shares to hedge power costs
and diversify revenue sources, KGHM Chief Executive Officer
 Herbert Wirth  said today. The current price of Tauron “is very
good,” Wirth told reporters.  
 Tauron’s IPO, Poland’s third-largest since 2004, has
brought the government almost half way to its goal of 25 billion
zloty of asset sales in 2010 to help finance the budget deficit.
Poland pressed on with the sale even after Europe’s debt crisis
prompted at least 36 companies, from London-based Ferrous
Resources Ltd. to Chinese wind-turbine maker Xinjiang Goldwind
Science & Technology Co., to postpone sales since May 1.  
 UBS AG and UniCredit SpA were the global coordinators of
Tauron’s sale. Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch, ING Groep
NV, BRE Bank SA, PKO Bank Polski SA, Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA,
Bank Pekao SA and Trigon also helped arrange the offering.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        