-- Australia Bank Lending, House Price Gains Suggest Resilience to Rate Rises
-- Nichola Saminather
-- 2010-06-30T02:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/australia-bank-lending-house-price-gains-suggest-resilience-to-rate-rises.html

          
          
             Australian bank lending rose in May
for a sixth month and house prices gained, a sign the nation’s
housing market is weathering higher central bank interest rates.  
 Loans provided by banks and other finance companies
advanced 0.5 percent from April, when they rose a revised 0.3
percent, the Reserve Bank of Australia said in Sydney today. The
median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a 0.4 percent gain. Lending increased 2.7 percent from a
year earlier.  
 Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  has led Group of 20
policy makers by boosting borrowing costs six times since last
October to prevent an economic recovery stoking house prices.
Dwelling prices across Australia’s largest cities rose a
seasonally adjusted 0.5 percent in May, taking the median price
to A$468,000 ($397,000) for an annual gain of 12.1 percent,
according to an RP Data-Rismark index released today.  
 “Housing finance to investors has picked up,” said  Rod Cornish , head of property research at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
Sydney. “We’ve already seen significant growth in the first
half” in housing prices, he said. “That’s already locked in,
and we’ll see more moderate growth in the second half.”  
 The Australian dollar traded at 84.89 U.S. cents at noon in
Sydney from 84.82 cents just before the report was released. The
two-year government bond yield was unchanged at 4.46 percent.  
 Home Loans  
 Loans to consumers to buy houses increased 0.7 percent from
April and 8.6 percent from a year earlier, according to today’s
report. Credit provided to consumers for purchases other than
housing dropped 0.5 percent from a month earlier for an annual
gain of 3.1 percent.  
 Lending to companies advanced 0.4 percent from the previous
month, when it fell a revised 0.2 percent.  
 Still, there are signs that higher borrowing costs are
prompting some home buyers to revise investment plans. Sales of
newly built dwellings fell 6.4 percent in May from April, a
separate report published today by the Canberra-based Housing
Industry Association showed.  
 Governor Stevens boosted the benchmark rate by 150 basis
points to 4.5 percent in May from a half-century low of 3
percent in early October, adding about A$3,600 a year to
repayments on an average A$300,000 mortgage.  
 “There is no sustained upward momentum in new home sales
in 2010 because higher interest rates and concerns over the
threat of further rate hikes are damping demand,” said HIA
Chief Economist  Harley Dale  in Canberra.  
 ‘Hold Fire’  
 “The current recovery in new residential construction
looks set to stall by mid next year and it is appropriate at
this juncture that the Reserve Bank hold fire on further rate
hikes not only next week, but through the remainder of 2010,”
Dale said.  
 Governor Stevens, who chairs his next monetary policy board
meeting on July 6, signaled on June 15 that the bank’s decision
to return borrowing costs to average levels has given it
flexibility to gauge any fallout from Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Policy makers have also said that inflation figures due
July 28, six days ahead of the bank’s scheduled Aug. 2 meeting,
will help show the degree of price pressures on the economy,
according to minutes of their June 1 gathering.  
 Traders are betting there is no chance of a quarter-point
increase at central bank monthly meetings until next year,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures
on the Sydney Futures Exchange.  
 “For now, the housing market is holding up rather well in
most capitals,” said  David de Garis , a senior economist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        