-- Australian Manufacturing Growth Slows a Second Month as Rates Cool Demand
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-06-30T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/australian-manufacturing-growth-slows-a-second-month-as-rates-cool-demand.html

          
          
             Australian  manufacturing  growth
slowed in June for a second month, adding to evidence that the
central bank’s interest rate increases are cooling domestic
demand.  
 The performance of  manufacturing index  fell 3.4 points from
May to 52.9, the Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a survey released in Canberra
today. A figure above 50 shows the industry is expanding.  
 While manufacturing expanded for a sixth straight month,
today’s report shows demand for clothing, paper and machinery
shrank in June, a month after central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  boosted the benchmark lending rate by a quarter
percentage point to 4.5 percent, the sixth increase since early
October. Stevens is forecast by all 24 economists surveyed this
week by Bloomberg News to keep borrowing costs unchanged July 6.  
 “Manufacturing growth eased in June confirming the
protracted nature of the current recovery,” said  Heather Ridout ,
chief executive officer of the Australian Industry Group.
“There remains a considerable way to go before manufacturing
returns to the levels of activity of mid-2008.”  
 The manufacturing survey, which is similar to the U.S. ISM
index, asked more than 200 companies about production, new
orders, deliveries, inventories and employment.  
 The central bank’s interest-rate moves, which have
increased the benchmark lending rate by 150 basis points between
October and May from a half-century low of 3 percent, have
pushed borrowing costs back to their “average” levels for most
business and household borrowers, policy makers say.  
 Fiscal Stimulus  
 Manufacturing companies remain “reliant on fiscal stimulus
measures and, notwithstanding the better performance of some of
the consumer-related sub-sectors, are vulnerable to further
interest rate increases,” Ridout said.  
 A gauge of new orders fell 3.4 points to 51.2, today’s
report showed, a drop that Ridout said was “of particular
concern.”  
 “New orders are a pointer to future directions for output
and employment,” she said.  
 A sub-index of production slumped 7.9 points to 53.5,
employment slid 2.6 points to 53, and supplier deliveries shed
0.3 points to 54.4, the report said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        