-- Auto Bonds Buck Sales Trend as ING Puts Faith in Consumers: Credit Markets
-- Sarah Mulholland
-- 2010-07-01T16:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/auto-bonds-buck-sales-trend-as-ing-puts-faith-in-consumers-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Sales of securities backed by car and
truck loans are rising even as corporate debt issuance declines
in a show of faith in consumers by fixed-income investors.  
 Automakers and their finance subsidiaries sold $30 billion
of the debt this year, a 45 percent increase from $20.7 billion
in the same period of 2009, Barclays Capital data show. U.S.
corporate bond sales fell 30 percent to $500.3 billion from
$716.1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Chrysler Group LLC,  Ford Motor Co.  and  Volkswagen AG  issued
asset-backed debt as vehicle sales climbed 17.2 percent this
year through May, according to Autodata Corp. Industry sales are
recovering from a 27-year low in 2009 when Chrysler and the
predecessor of General Motors Co. went into bankruptcy.
Delinquencies on auto loans have declined and Ford’s credit
rating was raised in May.  
 “I am optimistic about the consumer in the near-term,”
said  Dave Goodson , who helps oversee $15 billion in fixed-income
securities at ING Investment Management in Atlanta, including $3
billion of asset-backed debt linked to consumers. “This doesn’t
mean they are going to be big spenders, but the normal set of
factors that would drive somebody to buy a new car is slowly
returning.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own top-rated
securities backed by auto loans rather than government debt fell
to 74 basis points, or 0.74 percentage point, from 173 basis
points a year ago, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. The debt has returned 1.68 percent this year.  
 Credit-Card Payments  
 Sales of notes tied to vehicle loans and leases account for
about 42 percent of asset-backed issuance this year, Bloomberg
data show. Offerings backed by credit-card payments have fallen
to $5 billion, compared with $25 billion during the same period
of 2009, as banks seek cheaper financing alternatives.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the yield difference between
company bonds and benchmark government debt was unchanged at 196
basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. The so-called spread is up
from 149 basis points at the end of the first quarter and 176
basis points on Dec. 31. Yields averaged 3.959 percent.  
 An indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S. reversed
earlier declines, climbing to the highest level in almost three
weeks on concern that the economic recovery is faltering.  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 2.1 basis points to a mid-price of 124.8 basis points
as of 11:58 a.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.
Earlier, the benchmark fell as much as 3 basis points to 119.6.  
 Bondholder Protection  
 The gauge, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, has increased in seven of
the past eight sessions.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 Sales of securities tied to auto debt may reach $65 billion
this year, a 12 percent increase from $58 billion in 2009,
according to Barclays Capital.  
 The notes provide capital for lenders at a cheaper rate
than unsecured bonds and bank lines, said  Jon-Claude Zucconi , a
director in the asset-backed securitization group at Barclays
Capital in New York.  
 A 1.99-year portion of top-rated Ford securities backed by
auto loans priced to yield 15 basis points more than benchmark
rates on April 21.  
 Auto Sales  
 The average interest rate on a 36-month new car loan is
6.32 percent, according to Bankrate.com.  
 GM, the largest U.S. automaker, said today its U.S.
sales rose 11 percent in June, compared with an average estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg of 16 percent. Chrysler
reported a gain of 35 percent, versus an average analyst
estimate of 33 percent.  
 Annual U.S. auto deliveries averaged 16.8 million in the
decade through 2007, according to Autodata of Woodcliff, New
Jersey. The 2008 total was 13.2 million, and 2009’s tally of
10.4 million was the fewest since 1983.  
 Detroit-based GM is preparing for an initial public
offering as soon as the fourth quarter. Chrysler exited
bankruptcy a year ago after 41 days under court protection.  
 Tesla Motors Inc. , the electric-car company, raised $226
million this week in the first initial public offering of a U.S.
automaker in a half century.  
 Payments more than 60 days late on auto loans were at 0.56
percent through April, compared with 0.64 percent a year
earlier, Moody’s Investors Service said in a June 23 report.
Delinquencies have fallen for three consecutive months,
according to Moody’s.  
 Jobless Levels  
 Buyers and sellers alike are showing restraint as
unemployment levels remain elevated even after falling in recent
months, Goodson said.  
 “Buyers are not going to stretch like they used to for the
nicer cars with all the features,” Goodson said. “Nor are
lenders going to be as aggressive as they were on loan terms to
incent sales.”  
 A U.S. Labor Department report tomorrow may show the
jobless rate rose to 9.8 percent in June from 9.7 percent in
May, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Unemployment reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent
in October.  
 The finance arms of Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler,
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, and Wolfsburg, Germany-based
Volkswagen sold asset-backed securities in the past six months,
according to Barclays Capital. Chrysler’s $2.02 billion sale
tied to lease payments in March was the largest issue of asset-
backed securities this year.  
 Ford Rating  
 Ford and its finance arm had their credit  ratings  boosted
one level to B1 by Moody’s on May 18. The ratings company cited
the automaker’s new models and a lower cost structure.  
 Asset-backed securities sales may reach $125 billion this
year, according to  John McElravey , an analyst at Wells Fargo
Securities. The forecast represents a decline from 2009, when a
Federal Reserve program to thaw credit markets spurred $134
billion in sales, Bloomberg data show. Issuance plummeted 42
percent in 2008 as the credit crisis sapped demand.  
 McElravey, who is based in Charlotte, North Carolina, cut
his estimate from $150 billion in May mainly because of a lack
of credit-card securities.  
 Consumer Deposits  
 “The banking system is up to its eyeballs in consumer
 deposits ,” McElravey said. “They don’t need the capital
markets as much with that cheap source of funding.”  
 Commercial bank deposits in the U.S. rose to $7.6 trillion
from about $6.8 trillion in September 2008, Bloomberg data show.  
 Tighter underwriting standards and increased savings have
also reduced new lending, and accounting changes have made
bundling the debt for sale less attractive to banks, McElravey
said.  
 Top rated securities linked to credit-card payments yield
83 basis points more than Treasuries, compared with 176 basis
points a year ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        