-- Auto Sales May Stall as Shaken Buyers Lead `Tortoise-Like' U.S. Recovery
-- Theo Keith
-- 2010-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/auto-sales-may-stall-as-shaken-buyers-lead-tortoise-like-u-s-recovery.html

          
          
             U.S. auto sales  this month probably
posted the smallest increase since February as consumers
concerned about unemployment and the economy avoid large
purchases, analysts said.  
 Industrywide deliveries in the month may reach an
annualized rate of 11.2 million vehicles, the average of eight
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would top last
year’s depressed 9.7 million-unit pace while declining from 11.6
million in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
figures will be announced tomorrow.  
 “Despite all the talk about things getting better, it
doesn’t seem that way in many people’s homes or in their bottom
line,” said  Jessica Caldwell , director of industry analysis at
auto researcher Edmunds.com in Santa Monica, California. “It’s
going to be a tortoise-like recovery.”  
 U.S. auto sales have “flat-lined” since last year’s third
quarter because consumers have been unwilling to make big
purchases,  Mark Fields ,  Ford Motor Co.’s  president of the
Americas, said last week. The 9.7 percent  jobless rate  and
continued lower  home prices  have hurt consumers’  confidence  and
are keeping them out of showrooms, dealers and analysts said.  
 J.D. Power & Associates cut its estimate of individuals’
purchases this year to 9.5 million from about 9.7 million, said
 Jeff Schuster , an analyst with the researcher. J.D. Power
estimates 11.8 million, including less-profitable sales to fleet
buyers. Annual auto deliveries averaged 16.8 million from 2000
through 2007 and fell to 10.4 million last year, the lowest in
27 years.  
 Light vehicle sales in June may match the 11.2 million pace
this year through May, trailing Ford’s 2010 forecast of 11.3
million to 12.3 million, Fields said.  
 ‘Gives Us Pause’  
 “The consumer is feeling a bit better, but not enough to go
out and go back to the old ways of spending,” Fields said in a
presentation last week. “It gives us pause because of the tight
labor market and the overall situation in the credit markets.”  
 The Conference Board said yesterday that its confidence
index slumped to 52.9 this month from a revised 62.7 in May. The
private research group’s June figure was less than the lowest
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Showroom traffic is down 20 percent at Frank Ursomarso’s
GMC-Buick dealership in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 “The numbers are way down,” Ursomarso said. “We’re a big
banking town, and they’ve had a tough go in the newspapers with
the banking reform bill. Day after day of negative stories.”  
 Ford, based in Dearborn, Michigan, probably overtook  Toyota
Motor Corp.  to become second in U.S. sales in the first half of
2010, according to TrueCar.com in Santa Monica, California.
 Ford , which last outsold Toyota in 2006, might post a 16 percent
sales jump, the average of six analysts’ estimates, while
Toyota’s may rise 9 percent, the average of four estimates.  
 Toyota Recalls  
 Toyota’s gain would be slower than the market’s overall
increase of 15 percent. The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker
recalled more than 8 million vehicles since September for
defects linked to unintended acceleration.  
 “The clear winner is Ford, while the loser is Toyota,”
said  Jesse Toprak , TrueCar’s vice president of industry trends.
“Ford has built momentum since they refused government help and
they’ve got the best lineup they’ve ever had.”  
 General Motors Co., based in Detroit, may post a 16 percent
gain this month, the average of six analysts’ estimates. GM’s
predecessor entered bankruptcy on June 1, 2009, and the new
company emerged in July. Chrysler Group LLC’s sales may rise 33
percent from last June, when the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
company was emerging from a 41-day bankruptcy and doing little
marketing.  
 Honda Increase  
 Honda Motor Co.  may post an increase of 9 percent in June,
the average of four estimates. Nissan Motor Co. may report a
gain of 27 percent, the average of four estimates.  
 The U.S. automakers will “largely outperform the
industry,”  Brian Johnson , a Barclays Capital analyst in
Chicago, wrote in a June 28 note. “Toyota likely once again
underperformed the industry by a wide margin, perhaps still
reflecting some payback following several months of particularly
generous deals offered to buyers.”  
 Sales incentives rose 1.1 percent from May as Toyota,
Nissan,  Hyundai Motor Co.  and  Kia Motors Corp.  boosted discounts
while U.S. automakers reduced them, according to TrueCar. The
industry average discount of $2,870 per car was up 6.2 percent
from last June, TrueCar estimated.  
 U.S. automakers, seeking to boost profits, have pulled back
from offering big discounts. That strategy will be tested if
auto sales remain sluggish, J.D. Power’s Schuster said.  
 “It’s gut-check time,” Schuster said. “If we see a
continued stall in the recovery, the temptation will be there to
jump-start things.”  
 Tighter Inventories  
 Unlike past slowdowns,  inventory  levels aren’t high, which
could temper automakers’ urge to increase discounts, Schuster
said. Car companies had 49 days of supply at the end of May, 8
fewer days than in April and lower than the two months once
considered the industry’s standard, J.D. Power said.  
 That tight inventory is costing sales for Gordon Stewart,
who owns four Chevrolet outlets in Georgia, Florida and Michigan
and a Toyota store in Alabama.  
 “We could sell more cars if we had them, but Detroit is
being very conservative in its build,” Stewart said. “We’ve
had a drop off in traffic, but when somebody does finally come
in, you don’t have a car to sell them. It’s like a double
whammy.”  
 The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from June 2009. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annual rate, or SAAR, are in millions of vehicles.  
 The estimates are based on daily selling rates. June had 25
selling days, the same as last year.  

 

                             GM      Ford     Chrysler SAAR

Rod Lache                    18%     13%      33%      11.5
(Deutsche Bank)
Jesse Toprak                 15%     17%      33%      11.1
(TrueCar.com)
Joseph Barker                10%     13%      25%      11.1
(IHS Automotive)
Jessica Caldwell             18%     17%      33%      11.2
(Edmunds.com)
Jeff Schuster                NA      NA       NA       10.9
(J.D. Power)
Himanshu Patel               NA      NA       NA       11.4
(JPMorgan)
Brian Johnson                18%     19%      35%      11.3
(Barclays Capital)
Christopher Ceraso           17%     15%      39%      11.3
(Credit Suisse)

Average                      16%     16%      33%      11.2
 
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Theo Keith  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 tkeith6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        