-- Axa Rosenberg's Barr Rosenberg, Mead, Sevilla Step Down Over Coding Error
-- Christopher Condon
-- 2010-06-30T15:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/axa-rosenberg-s-barr-rosenberg-mead-sevilla-step-down-over-coding-error.html

          
          
             Axa  Rosenberg Group LLC, a unit of
Paris-based insurer Axa SA, said co-founder  Barr Rosenberg  will
leave with immediate effect after a review found he tried to
cover up a coding error in the firm’s investment model.  
 Tom Mead , director of research, and  Agustin Sevilla , global
chief investment officer, are also stepping down from their
positions, according to a  letter  to clients posted today on the
firm’s website. Co-founder  Kenneth Reid  will be head of research
and Kathleen Houssels will oversee investment models.  
 Axa Rosenberg said it’s accelerating the management changes
as part of an overhaul aimed at increasing accountability.
Assets under management have fallen to $41 billion as of May 31,
from $62 billion on April 15, when the coding error was made
public. A review is continuing to determine whether client
investments suffered because of the coding error, which was
corrected late last year, the firm said.  
 “They moved relatively quickly, even before there was a
determination of whether clients had been injured,”  Geoffrey Bobroff , an independent fund-industry consultant in East
Greenwich, Rhode Island, said in a telephone interview.
“Sometimes early moves are to show regulators that they have
the situation under control.”  
 Rosenberg couldn’t immediately be reached for comment. Mead
and Sevilla didn’t immediately return calls to their office
phones seeking comment.  
 The firm, which uses computer models to pick investments,
told clients on June 9 that Rosenberg would step down once Axa
Investment Managers, the majority owner of the investment firm,
had purchased the remaining 25 percent from Rosenberg and Reid.
Mead was scheduled to leave within a year, the company said in
April.  
 Rosenberg and Mead “acted to limit dissemination of
information regarding the error and to preclude discussion about
its correction and communication at the proper levels in the
firm,” Axa Rosenberg said. Sevilla “did not act in a manner
that was consistent with the firm’s escalation policy. We are
deeply disappointed in these actions, which are contrary to our
firm’s values and standards.”  
 Rosenberg will remain available as a consultant to the
firm, and Mead will assist with the transition of his
responsibilities over the coming months, Axa Rosenberg said in
the letter. Sevilla will take on a senior research role at the
firm.  
 The firm has hired Cornerstone Research to assess the
impact of the coding error on performance.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        