-- Japan's Improving Manufacturer Sentiment Under Threat From Global Slowdown
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-07-01T09:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/bank-of-japan-s-manufacturer-sentiment-reaches-two-year-high-tankan-shows.html

          
          
             An improvement in Japan’s
manufacturing confidence may be threatened by mounting evidence
that the global economic recovery is slowing.  
 The gain in the Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan  index  to a
two-year high was insufficient to stem a five-day losing streak
in the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average . Equities slid worldwide this
week, and data today showed Chinese manufacturing growth cooled.  
 “We can’t be wild with joy,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.
“Japan’s economy has already passed the sweetest spot and will
likely go into a plateau next year.”  
 The Tankan  index  of sentiment climbed 15 points in June to
plus 1, the Bank of Japan said in Tokyo today. The positive
number, which exceeded all 22 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists, means optimists outnumber pessimists. The
report contrasted with data this week showing higher
 unemployment , falling household spending and a drop in paychecks.  
 The Nikkei slumped 2 percent at the close in Tokyo. The
gauge has slid 8 percent over the past two weeks amid concern
that global growth will be hampered by government spending cuts
worldwide to address swelling public debt concerns.  
 “People can’t easily believe the facts that fundamentals
are improving, because they are worried,” said  Masaru Hamasaki ,
chief strategist in Tokyo at Toyota Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of $15 billion.  
 Rising Yen  
 The yen traded at 88.41 per dollar at 10:25 a.m. in London,
stronger than the 90.18 forecast for this fiscal year by big
manufacturers in today’s survey. It has climbed 6 percent
against the dollar in the past three months and 17 percent
versus the euro, gains that could erode exporters’ earnings.  
 Data across the Asia-Pacific region today highlighted the
vulnerability of Japan to a weakening of demand from abroad.  
 China’s  manufacturing growth  slowed for a second month in
June, two purchasing managers’ indexes showed, adding to signs
that Japan’s biggest overseas market is cooling. Manufacturing
in Australia and Taiwan also eased, and a report later today is
forecast to show a moderation in the U.S. as well.  
 “We can’t expect further stimulus effects globally,” said
 Susumu Kato , chief economist for Japan in Tokyo at Credit
Agricole CIB and CLSA. “It’s looking shaky whether the
expansion that began in April 2009 will be extended to 18 to 24
months.”  
 Capital Spending  
 The Tankan survey showed that companies plan to increase
 capital spending  as earnings improve following a global trade
rebound that spurred the nation’s recovery from its worst
postwar recession. Large businesses aim to increase investment
4.4 percent in the year ending March 31, the first gain in three
years, and they see profit rising 21.6 percent.  
 Should companies follow through on the forecasts, increased
investment may support the job market.  
 “Companies are expecting profits to rise with sales,”
said  Noriaki Matsuoka , an economist at Daiwa Asset Management Co.
in Tokyo. “So it’s a little different from before, when the
profit gains were coming from firings.”  
 The Tankan’s  labor index  for big manufacturers showed the
highest demand for employees since December 2008. The
unemployment rate rose for a third straight month in May, to 5.2
percent, a government report showed this week.  
 Nikon Corp. , a Tokyo-based camera maker, is among firms
anticipating rising earnings. It aims to more than double net
income to 65 billion yen ($733 million) in the year to March
2013. The company will boost capital spending to 120 billion yen
over three business years, up 9 percent from the preceding plan.  
 ‘We Need China’  
 “The good news is that investment is coming back --this is
a really significant difference from the past two years,”
 Martin Schulz , senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in
Tokyo, said on Bloomberg Television. Still, he said that’s not
enough to sustain the recovery. “We need overseas demand; we
need China.”  
 Sentiment at service companies also improved, with the
large non-manufacturer  index  climbing nine points to minus 5,
the highest level since September 2008. The Tankan was conducted
from May 26 to June 30 and surveyed 11,411 businesses.  
 While Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  sees signs
the rebound is starting to spur demand at home, the Tankan
improvements are unlikely to signal an end to his policy of
keeping interest rates at 0.1 percent, as deflation lingers.  
 New BOJ board member  Yoshihisa Morimoto  said the economy
has yet to achieve a “full-fledged” recovery and the central
bank should keep providing ample funds to the financial system.  
 Cloudy Outlook  
 “There are still many risk factors to the Japanese economy
at home and abroad, and it’s still difficult to get a clear
picture of the outlook,” Morimoto said at a news conference in
Tokyo after joining the policy board today.  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who faces mid-term elections on
July 11, last month released plans for boosting economic growth
as well as shrinking the budget deficit to contain the world’s
biggest  public debt . The growth strategy aims to halt the slide
in  consumer prices  next fiscal year and urges the BOJ to “make
utmost efforts” to end deflation.  
 “It will be difficult for the central bank to justify
ending the easy monetary policy,” said  Soichi Okuda , chief
economist at Sumitomo Research Institute in Tokyo. “The
government will continue to press the bank” to spur prices.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa  
                       
                         
                           Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa sees signs the rebound is starting to spur demand at home, the Tankan improvements are unlikely to signal an end to his policy of keeping interest rates at 0.1 percent, as deflation lingers. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa sees signs the rebound is starting to spur demand at home, the Tankan improvements are unlikely to signal an end to his policy of keeping interest rates at 0.1 percent, as deflation lingers. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Jerram, chief Asia economist at Macquarie Securities Ltd. in Tokyo, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for Japan's economy and the yen.
     Sentiment among Japan’s largest manufacturers rose to a two-year high, signaling Europe’s debt crisis has yet to undermine their confidence in the global recovery. The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment at large manufacturers climbed 15 points in June to plus 1, the Bank of Japan said in Tokyo today. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Martin Schulz, senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo, talks with Bloomberg's Mike Firn about the outlook for Japan's economy. 
     Sentiment among Japan’s largest manufacturers rose to a two-year high, signaling Europe’s debt crisis has yet to undermine their confidence in the global recovery. The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment at large manufacturers climbed 15 points in June to plus 1, the Bank of Japan said in Tokyo today. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
