-- Bankers Who Broke Big Dig With Swaps Gone Awry Get Paid for Fix
-- Michael McDonald
-- 2010-06-30T04:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/bankers-who-broke-big-dig-financing-with-swaps-gone-awry-get-paid-for-fix.html

          
          
             The same bankers who sold
Massachusetts interest-rate swaps that blew up the debt
financing for the so-called  Big Dig  road and tunnel project in
Boston -- costing taxpayers $100 million -- are getting even
more money to fix what they broke.  
   UBS AG  bankers showed up at the Massachusetts Turnpike
Authority in 2001 with a solution to a growing deficit at the
state agency overseeing the $15 billion project. The bank gave
the authority $29.1 million for an interest-rate swap linked to
$800 million of Big Dig bonds, an agreement meant to cut the
cost of paying back the debt and cover part of the budget
shortfall. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc . made similar deals.  
 The deal with UBS backfired as credit markets faltered two
years ago, costing toll payers $36.3 million in extra interest
and leading the Zurich-based bank to demand as much as $400
million to end the arrangement when the Big Dig bonds’ insurer
lost its top credit ratings.  
 “There was really no mention of any downside of these
swaps,” said Christy Mihos, a turnpike board member from 1999
to 2004 who voted for the UBS agreement. “It was portrayed as a
no-brainer that we could not lose.”  
 The same Wall Street banks that triggered the worst
financial collapse since the Great Depression also helped
government borrowers from  Greece  to California paper over
deficits with derivative deals promising savings on borrowings.
Many of the agreements failed when credit markets seized up in
2008 and swap payments from banks no longer covered rising debt
costs.  
 Swap Betting  
 States, cities and nonprofits have spent about $5 billion
unwinding the transactions since then, said  Peter Shapiro ,
managing director of Swap Financial Group in South Orange,  New
Jersey , an adviser to state and local governments.  
 “Use of these types of derivatives is making a bet,” said
Joseph Giglio, a business professor at  Northeastern University 
in Boston and former head of municipal securities at Chase
Manhattan Bank. “If it seems too good to be true, it is.”  
 The fallout from the Big Dig swaps didn’t stop
Massachusetts from giving new business to many of the same banks
and officials who arranged them.  
 Governor  Deval Patrick , 53, hired UBS in September 2007 to
advise him on overhauling the state’s transportation finances.
The agreement came about nine months after he named former UBS
banker Henry Dormitzer undersecretary for administration and
finance. The former UBS banker was a member of a team that sold
the firm’s swap to the turnpike, according to Mihos.  
 Buried Bodies  
 “If you want to find out where the bodies are buried,
you’ve got to go talk to the gravedigger,” Patrick, who’s
seeking re-election this year, said in an Oct. 29 interview in
Boston regarding his use of UBS as an adviser.  
 Dormitzer, who left the Patrick administration in 2008,
declined to comment when reached by telephone.  
   Massachusetts  also hired Paul Ladd, a former turnpike
official who authorized the UBS swap in 2001, as part of an
investment-banking team that refinanced about $2 billion of Big
Dig debt this year.  
 The state signed up underwriters that would get
Massachusetts the  best price  on its bonds, said Jay Gonzalez,
the governor’s secretary of administration and finance.  
 “Whether or not a particular individual happened to work
at the firm that has some history or another was not an
overriding concern,” Gonzalez said in an interview. “We wanted
to make sure we got the breadth in the underwriting team with
the banks that were capable of selling hundreds of millions of
dollars worth of bonds that have a real story behind them.”  
 Downtown Transformation  
 The Massachusetts Turnpike Authority was created in 1952 to
oversee a 138-mile (229-kilometer) section of what is now part
of  Interstate 90 . In 1997, the Boston-based agency was put in
charge of the Big Dig, the most expensive public works project
in U.S. history, which transformed the city’s downtown by
replacing an aging elevated highway with tunnels.  
 While the project’s cost was estimated at about $5 billion
when work began in 1991, expenses soared, sparking federal and
state probes and criminal charges against contractors. No
charges were brought related to the bond sales and derivatives.  
 To help cover budget shortfalls, the authority took the
projected savings from swaps as upfront payments instead of
waiting for them to accrue over time, according to  Fitch
Ratings . It collected $5.3 million from JPMorgan in 1999, $29.1
million from UBS in 2001 and $35 million from Lehman in 2002,
according to its annual report.  
 ‘Humongous Deficit’  
 “It’s easy to sit back now and say it was a terrible
decision,” said Jordan Levy, a board member from 1997 to 2004
who voted for the swaps. “We were sitting there with this
humongous deficit and they presented us a way out.”  
 In a swap transaction, two parties exchange payments,
typically a floating one for a fixed. State and local
governments usually sold variable-rate bonds and negotiated with
banks to leave them paying fixed interest that was lower than
prevailing municipal rates.  
 In addition to the expenses of the UBS swap, the authority
paid $408,000 of extra interest since 2002 on a JPMorgan
derivative linked to $100 million of Big Dig bonds, said Cyndi
Roy, a spokeswoman for the state’s administration and finance
office. The contract is set to last until 2029, according to a
copy of the agreement.  
 The turnpike also had to set aside as much as $19.6 million
of cash as collateral against the JPMorgan contract as central
banks slashed benchmark rates amid the credit crisis, according
to bond documents.  
   Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman in  New York , declined
comment.  
 Lehman Payment  
 The authority paid $3.2 million to end the Lehman Brothers
swap after the New York-based bank declared bankruptcy. Lawyers
for what remains of the firm are disputing the amount paid,
according to bond documents. The turnpike was told by bankers in
2007 that terminating the derivative contract could cost as much
as $43 million.  
 The UBS swap backfired in January 2008 when the exchange of
payments began. The agency, rated close to below-investment
grade at Baa2 and Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, was unable
to refinance $800 million of its bonds into floating rates to
match the agreement. It paid an extra $49.9 million in interest
through the end of March this year and received $13.6 million
from the bank, Roy said.  
 The UBS burden worsened last year when a unit of  Ambac
Financial Group Inc . that insured both the Big Dig bonds and the
swap lost its top credit ratings. UBS sought a payment to end
the swap, which the state said would cost as much as $400
million.  
 $100 Million  
 The demand forced Governor Patrick to step in. The
Democratic-controlled Legislature  dissolved  the turnpike
authority and pledged $100 million a year from a sales-tax
increase to a new transportation agency so it could refinance
the bonds. UBS dropped its payment claim and Patrick refinanced
all of the highway’s Big Dig debt, including a sale of $800
million of floating-rate bonds to match the bank’s swap.  
   Doug Morris , a spokesman for UBS in New York, declined to
comment.  
 “I’m glad the governor is cleaning up these messes,” Mark Montigny, a Democratic state senator from  New Bedford  who last
year sought a formal probe of the turnpike swaps, said in an
interview. “However, until we investigate and assign blame and
find out if in fact there is criminal behavior or at a minimum
serious civil recovery, then we learn nothing.”  
 The governor’s new transportation department in November
hired  Bank of America Corp ., JPMorgan Chase,  Barclays Plc  and  Citigroup Inc . to refinance the turnpike’s Big Dig bonds, paying
the underwriters $7.7 million for securities sold in March and
May this year, according to sale documents.  
 Working With Massachusetts  
 Ladd, the turnpike’s former chief financial officer who
authorized the UBS swap, according to a copy of the contracts,
represented  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
working with the state to sell the bonds, said Jonathan Davis,
the official who oversaw the offering.  
 Ladd left the turnpike in 2002 and is based in Boston. He
declined to comment in a telephone call.  
 Paul Haley represented Barclays in a role similar to
Ladd’s, Davis said. Haley was the Lehman Brothers banker who
sold the turnpike a swap in 2002, according to Mihos, and a
former chairman of the Massachusetts House Ways and Means
Committee. He joined Barclays when the London-based bank bought
Lehman’s investment banking and trading operations after its
bankruptcy. He declined to comment.  
 ‘Brink of Ruin’  
 The state used Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo
PC, the turnpike’s bond counsel on the derivative, according to
Mihos and Levy, as its disclosure counsel. John Regier, a lawyer
at the Boston-based firm, said it verified the accuracy of
information on the state’s finances given to investors for the
bond sale and had nothing else to do with the transaction.  
 “The turnpike authority was on the brink of ruin because
of the financial decisions made earlier this decade,” said Mary Connaughton, who served on the turnpike’s board from 2005 to
2009 and is running for state auditor this year as a Republican.
“It doesn’t make sense to bring back the same old players.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Governor Deval Patrick hired UBS in September 2007 to advise him on overhauling the state’s transportation finances. Photographer: Michael Springer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
