-- Bankruptcies Show States Recovering From Recession: Joe Mysak
-- Joe Mysak
-- 2010-06-30T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/bankruptcies-show-states-recovery-from-recession-commentary-by-joe-mysak.html

          
          
             A South Carolina toll road’s Chapter
9 filing last week is just the third municipal bankruptcy this
year, suggesting that states and municipalities may be emerging
from the recession.  
 Bankruptcies and bond defaults both declined in the first
half of 2010, as state and local governments raise taxes and
fees and cut spending to patch holes in their budgets.  
 To date, 30 municipal issuers have defaulted on $1.5
billion in bonds, according to  Richard Lehmann  of the Distressed
Debt Securities newsletter of Miami Lakes, Florida. In the first
half of 2009, 138 issuers defaulted on $4.5 billion in bonds.
That’s a decline of 80 percent, in terms of numbers of issues.  
 Only three municipalities declared Chapter 9 bankruptcy,
down from four at this time last year, said  James Spiotto , a
partner at Chapman & Cutler LLP in Chicago and a specialist in
municipal bankruptcy.  
 For all of 2009, 12 issuers filed for Chapter 9, according
to the American Bankruptcy Institute in Alexandria, Virginia.
That’s the most since 1994 when the total was 16, and a lot of
public officials keep talking about it.  
 Keep in mind that these numbers are preliminary, and it
sometimes takes a while for issuers or their agents to make full
disclosure. They are still good news for a market that has been
under siege for more than two years.  
 Bond Defaults  
 The worst recession since the Great Depression produced a
record year for bond defaults: 2008, when $8.2 billion failed
(162 issues). In 2009, $6.4 billion (187 issues) defaulted.  
 The previous record year for municipal bond defaults was
the recession year of 1991, when $5 billion failed (259 issues).
That was also the biggest year for Chapter 9 bankruptcies (18)
during the past three decades.  
 Big names -- the nation’s major cities, counties, special
districts and authorities -- are resisting bankruptcy and
default. The filing by the Connector 2000 Association of
Piedmont, South Carolina, last week joins bankruptcies by a
municipal utility district in Texas and a hospital in Idaho,
which are representative of the type of municipality -- small,
rural -- that typically reorganizes under Chapter 9.  
 Note the Las Vegas Monorail isn’t included in the tally.
The Monorail filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy in January. The move
was contested by Ambac Assurance Corp., which said Chapter 9
would have been more appropriate. A bankruptcy judge upheld the
Chapter 11 filing.  
 Munis Go Bust  
 As far as defaults go, most are by community-development
districts in Florida, on bonds that were used to finance real-
estate projects during the property boom. In 2009, a total of
122 of these districts defaulted on $3 billion in bonds, almost
half of the $6.4 billion in munis that went bust.  
 One of the newer, non-Florida defaults was reported by the
Colorado Educational Facilities Authority, which acts as a
conduit for certain muni-bond issues, on June 15.  
 The Rocky Mountain Roller Hockey League Inc., it said,
failed to make payment on $1.8 million in bonds that were sold
in 2003 and used to finance the construction of an “indoor,
inline hockey facility” near the city of Lakewood, Colorado, as
the original official statement to the bonds put it.  
 Thus far, there are no real surprises among the shipwrecks
in the municipal market, with the possible exception of
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania’s capital. The city in February
defaulted on bonds used to build a waste-to-energy incinerator
and is considering bankruptcy or state oversight.  
 ‘Not an Option’  
 People are talking about municipal bankruptcy more than
ever. So far, they haven’t embraced the concept. There still
seems to be a stigma attached to it.  
 “Bankruptcy is not an option,”  Jay M. Goldstone , the
chief operating officer of the city of San Diego, said in a
message to investors on June 18. “The city is facing challenges
in uncertain times but has taken and will continue to take the
critical steps necessary to meet those challenges.”  
 The numbers suggest it’s business as usual in the municipal
market. In other words, there are isolated incidents of failure
rather than any kind of systemic collapse.  
 Consider Buena Vista, Virginia. The city failed to
appropriate money to pay debt service on some bonds it sold to
build a golf course in 2005.  
 “Failure to appropriate demonstrates uncertainty about the
city’s willingness to meet its obligations,” Moody’s Investors
Service said in downgrading the city.  
 Unable, Unwilling  
 This is a cardinal sin in Muniland, where being unable to
pay is one thing, not being willing quite another. Yet
unwillingness to pay hasn’t gone viral, as the numbers show.  
 One money manager says a wave of municipal bankruptcies is
unlikely. That’s not going to keep people from talking about it.  
 “While we recognize there may be an increase, the
percentage will still be low compared to the vast universe of
municipal bond issuers,” said  John Flahive , Boston-based
national director of fixed income for BNY Mellon Wealth
Management, which manages about $20 billion in municipal bonds.  
 “We are cautioning clients that Chapter 9 filings will be
a more frequently discussed option and that will lead to
continued skittishness toward municipal bonds,” Flahive said.  
 Defaults and bankruptcies are down this year. The question
for investors is: Is this a sign that states and municipalities
are just beginning to recover, as they are bound to at some
point? Or is this drop only the result of federal stimulus
dollars delaying the day of reckoning?  
 ( Joe Mysak  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        