-- Barclays to Spend $1.5 Billion on Improving Consumer Banking in U.K., EU
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-06-30T14:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/barclays-to-spend-1-5-billion-on-improving-consumer-banking-in-u-k-eu.html

          
          
             Barclays Plc , the U.K.’s third-
biggest bank, will invest as much as 1 billion pounds ($1.5
billion) over the next four years to expand its British and
European consumer banking operations.  
 The program will be mostly directed at the bank’s units in
the U.K., France, Italy, Spain and Portugal,  Antony Jenkins ,
head of global retail banking, said in a conference call with
journalists today. The bank will seek a “top five” presence in
its markets, he said.  
 “The strategy for the  Barclays  group has been to deliver
increasing profit from outside the U.K. and that has been the
strategy for a number of years,” Jenkins said. “What we are
emphasizing more in this strategy is depth, not breadth and that
is one of the key objectives that we have for the business.”  
 Chief Executive Officer  John Varley  in February said
Barclays would reduce its reliance on investment banking so that
Barclays Capital would generate a third of profit, with the rest
coming from divisions including retail banking “over time”.
Barclays Capital contributed about half of pretax profit last
year, lifted by its acquisition of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. ’s North American operations in 2008.  
 Varley also said the company’s international expansion in
retail banking had been “too aggressive.” This month, Varley
said the bank has an “absolute” commitment to its controlling
stake in South Africa’s Absa Group Ltd.  
 Former Barclaycard chief executive Jenkins took over as
retail banking head with the departure of  Frits Seegers  in
November.  
 ‘Mass Affluent’  
 Barclays gained 2.6 percent to 274.25 at 3:07 p.m. in
London trading, valuing the lender at 33 billion pounds.  
 The investment of 250 million pounds a year in technology
and other areas for the next four years will add products and
“mass affluent” customers, Jenkins said. The retail bank plans
to gain 3 million to 4 million customers by the end of 2013,
said  Perry Jones,  a Barclays spokesman said. It already has 37
million clients in consumer banking, of which 21 million are
U.K.-based.  
 The bank will focus on organic growth, though “in-fill”
acquisitions are also possible, he said.  
 Barclays forecast “strong” profit growth in 2010 to 2013
and a return on equity of 13 percent to 15 percent for retail
banking, said Jenkins.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        