-- Barclays Hires Ex-Goldman Sachs Banker Cabral-Gardner in Brazil Expansion
-- Boris Korby
-- 2010-06-30T21:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/barclays-hires-former-goldman-sachs-banker-ana-cabral-gardner-in-brazil.html

          
          
             Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s third-
biggest bank, hired  Ana Cabral-Gardner  to help lure corporate
clients in Brazil as part of an expansion of its investment-
banking business.  
 Cabral-Gardner, 40, will serve as a managing director in
the investment banking division in Sao Paulo and report to  Alceu Lima , president of Banco Barclays in Brazil, the bank said in a
statement. She was previously head of Latin American equity
capital markets at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 The appointment is part of an effort by London-based
Barclays to expand beyond fixed-income and debt capital markets
in Latin America’s largest economy. In April, the bank began
equities trading on Brazil’s stock exchange through local
broker-dealer Barclays Corretora de Titulos e Valores
Mobiliarios.  
 “If you are a truly global bank today, it’s important to
have a significant presence in Brazil,” Cabral-Gardner said in
a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Barclays is committed to
Brazil to a point where it’s willing to put its balance sheet to
work for companies in the market, and that’s one of the biggest
differences and competitive advantages that we can offer our
clients locally.”  
 Brazil’s economy may expand 7.3 percent this year, the
fastest pace in more than two decades, the country’s policy
makers said today in a quarterly report.  
 Barclays has boosted its employee total in Brazil to about
150 from 60 since late 2008, spokesman  Brandon Ashcraft  said in
an e-mail.  
 “On a fundamental basis, there’s significant value to be
realized in Brazil in almost every equity sector,” Cabral-
Gardner said. “The Brazilian consumer today has gained critical
mass, and is large enough that it cannot be ignored.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 Bkorby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        