-- Barclays CFO Says Investment Banking Revenue Was `Softer' in May and June
-- Jon Menon
-- 2010-06-30T15:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/barclays-says-investment-banking-revenue-now-softer-than-first-quarter.html

          
          
             Barclays Plc  Finance Director  Chris Lucas  said investment banking revenue was “softer” in May and
June than in the first quarter of 2010.  
 The deterioration in conditions reflected lower levels of
capital markets and mergers and acquisitions business, Lucas
told analysts at a presentation in London today. Impairments at
Barclays as a whole are likely to improve by as much as 20
percent this year compared with 2009, the company also said.  
 “Investment banking conditions in May and June have been
softer,” said Lucas. “The conditions are certainly softer than
we saw in the first quarter.”  
 Barclays Capital contributed about half of pretax profit
last year, lifted by its acquisition of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. ’s North American operations in 2008. Chief Executive
Officer  John Varley  in February said Barclays would reduce its
reliance on investment banking so that its Barclays Capital unit
would generate a third of profit, with the rest coming from
divisions including retail banking “over time”.  
 Barclays credit spreads widened in the second quarter which
“will result in a not insubstantial own credit gain,” Lucas
said.  
 Barclays  rose  1.2 percent to 270.55 in London trading,
valuing the lender at 32.6 billion pounds ($48.8 billion).  
 The bank will post net income of 3.83 billion pounds this
year compared with 9.39 billion pounds in 2009, according to the
 median estimate  of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Consumer Investment  
 Britain’s third-largest bank also said it would invest as
much as 1 billion pounds over the next four years to expand its
U.K. and European consumer banking operations.  
 The program will be mostly directed at the bank’s units in
the U.K., France, Italy, Spain and Portugal,  Antony Jenkins ,
head of global retail banking, said in a conference call with
journalists today. The bank will seek a “top five” presence in
its markets, he said.  
 “The strategy for the Barclays group has been to deliver
increasing profit from outside the U.K. and that has been the
strategy for a number of years,” Jenkins said. “What we are
emphasizing more in this strategy is depth, not breadth and that
is one of the key objectives that we have for the business.”  
 Former Barclaycard CEO Jenkins took over as retail banking
head following the departure of  Frits Seegers  in November.  
 The investment of 250 million pounds a year in technology
and other areas for the next four years will add products and
“mass affluent” customers, Jenkins said. The retail bank plans
to gain 3 million to 4 million customers by the end of 2013,
said  Perry Jones , a Barclays spokesman. It already has 37
million clients in consumer banking, of which 21 million are
U.K.-based.  
 The bank will focus on organic growth, though “in-fill”
acquisitions are also possible, he said.  
 Barclays forecast “strong” profit growth in 2010 to 2013
and a return on equity of 13 percent to 15 percent for retail
banking, said Jenkins.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        