-- Befimmo SCA, British Airways, Dexia, Fiat, Total: European Equity Preview
-- Whitney Kisling
-- 2010-07-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/befimmo-sca-british-airways-dexia-fiat-total-european-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies’ shares may
have unusual moves in  European  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are from the last close.  
 Befimmo SCA  (BEFB BB): Belgium’s second-biggest real-estate
investment fund received a 51 million-euro ($62 million) offer
from Vivaqua for its Empress Court office in Brussels and
expects to record a gain of about 70 cents a share should an
agreement lead to a transaction. Befimmo declined 2.9 percent to
55.86 euros.  
 British Airways Plc  (BAY LN) The airline’s cabin-crew union
will depart from its previous stance by putting the company’s
latest pay offer to members without recommending they reject it,
a person with knowledge of the matter said. The stock declined
0.5 percent to 196 pence.  
 Dexia SA  (DEXB BB): Belgium’s largest bank by assets agreed
to sell its 51 percent stake in Adinfo SA, a provider of
computer services to local authorities, to Network Research
Belgium SA for an undisclosed amount. Dexia dropped 2.1 percent
to 2.89 euros.  
 Enel SpA  (ENEL IM): The utility’s Chief Executive Officer
 Fulvio Conti  speaks at an event in Rome. The stock fell 0.2
percent to 3.49 euros.  
 Fiat SpA  (F IM): Italy’s Transport Ministry plans to
publish new car registration figures for June. Fiat gained 0.2
percent to 8.52 euros.  
 GDF Suez SA  (GSZ FP): The owner of Europe’s biggest natural
gas network is in talks with suppliers over modifying long-term
supply contracts to reflect a drop in prices on the spot market.
The shares dropped 0.1 percent to 23.50 euros.  
 Gecina SA  (GFC FP): France’s second-biggest property
company, said it plans to have 10 billion euros worth of office
and health-industry properties in three years. The shares rose
4.2 percent to 74.39 euros.  
 Natixis SA  (KN FP): The investment-banking and asset-
management unit of France’s second-biggest bank was cleared by
France’s financial-markets regulator in an investigation into
the disclosure of losses in 2008. The shares added 2.5 percent
to 3.62 euros.  
 Total SA  (FP FP): Europe’s biggest refiner said a ruling by
an appeal court in northern France forcing it to restart
operations at its Dunkirk plant won’t affect its plan to close
the facility. The shares rose 0.6 percent to 36.97 euros.  
 Telecom Italia SpA  (TIT IM): Italy’s biggest phone company
said it will cut the cost of calling a mobile phone from its
fixed lines by as much as 27 percent as of July 1. The stock
fell 0.6 percent to 91 cents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        