-- Beirut's Only Synagogue to Reopen Next Year After Restoration by Diaspora
-- Massoud A. Derhally
-- 2010-06-30T11:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/beirut-s-only-synagogue-to-reopen-next-year-after-restoration-by-diaspora.html

          
          
             Restoration of Beirut’s only
synagogue will be completed in October and religious services
will be held there in 2011 for the first time in more than three
decades, the leader of the country’s Jewish community said.  
 “We started from zero with this project and now we hope
with the restoration we will be able to once again rebuild a
community in Lebanon,” Isaac Arazi, 67, said June 24 in an
interview in Beirut.  
 The  Maghen Abraham Synagogue  in Wadi Abou Jmil, the city’s
historic Jewish quarter, opened in 1926 and once hosted a
thriving community that has been eroded by decades of civil war.
Prospects for stability have improved since elections a year ago
were won by the pro-Western coalition of  Saad Hariri , which
formed a national unity government with rival Hezbollah and the
Muslim group’s Christian allies.  
 The synagogue’s restoration has so far cost $700,000 and
the final bill is expected to reach $1.2 million, Arazi said.
Most of the financing has come from Lebanese Jews outside the
country, while Christians and Muslims have also contributed.  
 About 100 Jews now live permanently in Lebanon, while there
are some 1,900 living abroad who still own property in the
country and visit regularly, according to Arazi, who owns a
food-machinery business. In the mid-1960s, there were as many as
22,000 Lebanese Jews, he said.  
 Haven for Refugees  
 Historically, Lebanon was a haven for Jews, some of whom
descended from people who fled the Spanish inquisition. The
country later served a similar role for refugees from Nazi
Germany. Lebanon had “no history of anti-Jewish tensions,” and
was the only Arab country whose population of Jews increased
after Israel’s creation in 1948, said  Kirsten Schulze , a
lecturer at the London School of Economics and author of “The
Jews of Lebanon.”  
 Jews began to flee Lebanon, emigrating to Europe as well as
North and South America, after sectarian fighting broke out in
the 1970s among the nation’s Christian, Muslim and  Druze 
factions. The last religious service at Maghen Abraham was held
around the middle of that decade.  
 When it opens again early next year, the synagogue will
have seating for 600 men and 300 women. Religious artifacts such
as the Torah and other books and items required for services
will be brought from Turkey and Syria, and the synagogue will
seek to appoint a rabbi familiar with Middle Eastern and North
African Sephardic Jewish rituals from the region, possibly from
Yemen, Egypt or Turkey, Arazi said.  
 The community has also begun to repair the Jewish cemetery
in Beirut, where about 4,500 Jews are buried, at a cost of about
$200,000, and there are also plans to restore defunct synagogues
elsewhere in the country, including one in Bhamdoun, a town 23
kilometers (14 miles) from the capital.  
 In an interview in 2008,  Fouad Siniora , prime minister at
the time, said the synagogue “is a religious place of worship
and its restoration is welcome.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Maghen Abraham Synagogue stands in Beirut prior to renovation. Photographer: Massoud A. Derhally/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
