-- Berlusconi Wiretap Bill Is Danger to Press Freedom, Privacy Regulator Says
-- Steve Scherer
-- 2010-06-30T11:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/berlusconi-wiretap-bill-is-danger-to-press-freedom-privacy-regulator-says.html

          
          
             Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s bill to curtail police wiretapping and limit media
coverage of criminal probes is a threat to press freedom, the
country’s privacy regulator said today.  
 The draft law was passed in the Senate earlier this month
and debate begins in the Chamber of Deputies on July 29. Italy’s
journalists’ union,  FNSI , is holding a rally in the center of
Rome tomorrow to protest against what it calls a “gag law.”  
 The bill “objectively shifts the balance between press
freedom and privacy completely in favor of privacy,”  Francesco Pizzetti , the chief of the state privacy regulator, said today
in Rome in an annual speech to parliament. “In doing this, a
danger to press freedom is created.”  
 Berlusconi argues that pervasive leaks of wiretaps in
Italy, one of the most-bugged countries in Europe, leads to
people being tried in the press. Police, prosecutors,
journalists, publishers, and opposition parties in parliament
say the law goes too far and would inhibit investigations,
including into organized crime, while limiting the media’s
ability to report on issues of public interest.  
 The law would also make it harder for prosecutors to get
wiretaps approved and limit them to 75 days from as much as 18
months currently. Journalists would risk jail time and
publishers could be fined as much as 465,000 euros ($571,392)
for reporting the content of wiretaps.  
 The Justice Ministry, which drafted the bill, says that
124,326 phone lines were monitored in 2008.  The Max Planck
Institute  said in a 2004 study that Italy uses more wiretaps per
capita than any of the world’s democracies. The  cost  of
wiretapping, bugging and hidden cameras was 739 million euros in
2008, about a third of the ministry’s annual budget.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Scherer  in Rome at 
 scherer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        