-- BHP, Rio Told to Share Two Pilbara Iron Ore Railway Networks by Regulator
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-06-30T16:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/bhp-rio-told-to-share-two-pilbara-iron-ore-railway-networks-by-regulator.html

          
          
             Rio Tinto Group  and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. , the second- and third-largest iron ore exporters, must
share some of their Western Australian rail lines with rivals,
the country’s competition tribunal said.  
 The Australian Competition Tribunal today backed a May 2006
government decision that BHP must open access to its Goldsworthy
rail line until 2028, according to documents e-mailed to
Bloomberg News. It also said Rio should share its Robe railroad
until November 2018, rather than the 2028 decided earlier.  
 BHP and Rio, seeking to combine their iron-ore operations
in Western Australia to cut costs, have been fighting
applications by rival  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd.  to open their
railroads to others, saying sales and investments may be curbed.
The ruling may boost the chances of the Australian Competition
and Consumer Commission approving BHP and Rio’s proposed ore
venture next month, according to Evolution Securities Ltd.  
 “It might just make it a little bit easier for the ACCC to
approve things,”  Charles Kernot , an analyst at Evolution in
London, said today by phone, noting the companies also recently
agreed on higher royalties. “Maybe they’ve had to give up a
little bit, which will be offset by those further benefits. This
is all part of this whole process to get the merger approved.”  
 Rio Tinto  fell 2.6 percent to 2,968.5 pence in London
trading. BHP  slid  1 percent to 1,754.5 pence.  
 Australian Regulator  
 Rio and BHP’s plan to combine mines, railroads, ports and
workforces in the Pilbara region in a 50-50 joint venture is
estimated to save at least $10 billion. The deal is opposed by
steelmakers in Europe and Asia.  
 Australia’s competition regulator is due to announce the
findings of a review into the venture on July 22. The venture
will also be studied by the European Commission and requires
shareholder approval. Both companies last week agreed to pay
higher royalties on iron ore sales to Western Australia state.  
 BHP may appeal today’s ruling to the Federal Court of
Australia, the Melbourne-based company said.  
 “It is not in the public interest that our business or
customers should be disadvantaged through the increased
inefficiencies and costs that will result from other companies
operating their trains on our rail lines,”  Ian Ashby , BHP’s
iron ore president, said in a statement today.  
 The tribunal also ruled that Rio’s Hamersley line and BHP’s
Mt. Newman railway tracks won’t need to be shared, setting aside
a government decision earlier. Fortescue, run by billionaire
 Andrew Forrest , is Australia’s third-largest iron ore exporter.  
 Iron Ore Exporters  
 “In relation to the Hamersley and Mt. Newman lines, we
will be appealing to the full federal court, as we expect BHP
and Rio will appeal against the Goldsworthy and Robe
decisions,”  Paul Downie , the Perth-based spokesman for
Fortescue, said in a phone interview. “We ultimately expect the
final decisions will be made by the high court.”  
 BHP operates the Mt. Newman and Goldsworthy railroads in
Western Australia. Rio controls the Robe River and Hamersley
lines. Most of the iron ore from Australia, the world’s largest
exporter of iron ore followed by Brazil, comes from the state.  
 “We are very pleased that the access application over our
major Pilbara railway line has been refused,”  Sam Walsh , head
of Rio’s iron ore, said in a statement. “We have always been
strongly of the view that our integrated operations would be
severely disrupted if we were required to allow third parties to
operate trains on our rail system.”  
 Fortescue’s Cloudbreak  
 Fortescue built its own A$2.8 billion ($2.4 billion) rail
and port operation and began production at its Cloudbreak mine
in May 2008. It wanted to use the Mt. Newman line to access the
undeveloped Mindy Mindy deposit.  
 The National Competition Council has said increasing access
to BHP and Rio rail lines would promote competition in the
market for iron ore haulage. Failure to grant third-party access
may also add to development costs by forcing competitors to
build duplicate railroads, it said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        