-- Biogen Names Exelixis's George Scangos as CEO, Director to Succeed Mullen
-- Elizabeth Lopatto
-- 2010-06-30T22:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/biogen-idec-names-exelixis-s-george-scangos-as-chief-to-succeed-mullen.html

          
          
             Biogen Idec Inc.,  the world’s
largest maker of multiple sclerosis treatments, named  George Scangos , 62, chief executive officer, effective July 15.  
 Scangos leaves  Exelixis Inc ., where he has been chief
executive since 1996, to replace former Biogen CEO  James Mullen ,
who retired June 8, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Biogen said
in a statement today. Exelixis promoted research head  Michael Morrissey , 49, to president and chief executive officer,
Exelixis said in a separate statement.  
 Biogen’s new CEO starts as the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based drugmaker struggles to expand the use of its fastest-
growing drug, Tysabri, and has engaged in repeated proxy fights
with billionaire investor  Carl Icahn . Under Scangos, Exelixis,
with no marketed products, made medicine-development deals with
companies led by  Pfizer Inc. , the world’s largest drugmaker.  
 “We need to protect and enhance our commercial products,
advance the late-stage pipeline and review our research and
development,” Scangos said today in a telephone interview. “We
need to work with a sense of urgency.”  
 Biogen fell $1.25 to $47.45, or 2.6 percent, at 4:01 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading . Exelixis
declined 14 cents to $3.47.  
 Exelixis IPO  
 Scangos steered South San Francisco, California-based
Exelixis through its initial public offering in 2000. He has a
bachelor’s degree in biology from Cornell University and a Ph.D.
in microbiology from the University of Massachusetts, according
to his profile on Exelixis’s  website . He is chairman of San
Diego-based biotechnology firm  Anadys Pharmaceuticals Inc. , the
maker of hepatitis C treatments.  
 “He was the glue holding the company together,”  Eric Schmidt , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York, said today in
an interview. “This may put more of a target on Exelixis’s back
for acquirers.”  
 At Exelixis, Scangos  licensed  rights to nine compounds to
drugmakers including London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ,  Roche
Holding AG , based in Basel, Switzerland, and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co.  and Pfizer, both in New York. Exelixis is also
jointly developing four drugs with Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis SA 
and Bristol-Myers.  
 Licensing arrangements helped Exelixis generate $151.8
million in  revenue  last year. Exelixis has 14 experimental drugs
in human clinical testing, all but four for the treatment of
cancer, spokesman Charles Butler said in a March 8 interview.  
 Sanofi Cancer Deal  
 Sanofi bought the rights to potential cancer drug
candidates from Exelixis in a May 2009 deal that may result in
the French drugmaker paying more than $1 billion to its U.S.
partner, the companies said at the time.  
 Exelixis signed a deal with Bristol-Myers in 2008, and
received $240 million as a result. On June 21, the companies
ended the partnership on XL184, a cancer drug that is Exelixis’
most advanced cancer therapy, and returned full rights to the
California company.  
 The two companies were “not able to align on the scope,
breadth and pace of the ongoing clinical development of XL184,”
Exelixis said in a statement on June 21.  
 Scangos’ departure was unrelated to the decision on the
drug,  Stelios Papadopoulos , chairman of Exelixis, said today in
a conference call.  
 Drug Development  
 Biogen has six new medicines in the third and final stage
of testing generally required for U.S. approval, according to
the company’s  website . Three, for MS, include a long-acting
version of the company’s best-seller, Avonex; a pill called BG-
12; and a treatment called daclizumab in development with  Abbott
Laboratories . Drugs for leukemia, hemophilia and heart failure
also are in final testing.  
 “George has extensive experience managing a research
organization that we think we be valuable to steering Biogen’s
research efforts,”  Geoffrey Meacham , an analyst with JPMorgan
Securities Inc. in New York, said today in a note to clients.
“That said, a lack of commercial experience could create
challenges in managing the increasing competition in MS and
bringing additional products to market.”  
 Mullen became CEO at Biogen in 2000, when Avonex was the
company’s lone drug on the market. Mullen oversaw the temporary
recall of Tysabri, also for MS, after it was linked to fatal
brain infections. Scangos takes over as Biogen has fallen short
of its goal for 100,000 new patients to take Tysabri, with about
50,300 in treatment as of March 31.  
 Biogen Competition  
 Biogen faces new competition from Novartis AG’s Gilenia
multiple sclerosis pill, which won the backing of a U.S. Food
and Drug Administration advisory panel on June 10. The drug will
threaten Tysabri’s growth, said  Bret Holley , a New York-based
analyst for Oppenheimer & Co., in a June 11 note to investors.  
 “We need to be sure our marketing messages and sales force
are aligned, and George will get a chance to put input onto
that,” said  William D. Young , Biogen’s chairman, in a telephone
interview. “I’m very excited about Tysabri. There’s a lot of
growth potential in Tysabri.”  
 Icahn has pressured Biogen’s management since 2007 when the
company abandoned a plan to sell itself. He gained two board
members in a 2009 proxy fight and another two board members this
year to avert the company’s third proxy challenge from the
investor in as many years.  
 Exelixis also named Morrissey to its board today. He joined
the company in 2000 as vice president of discovery and was
promoted to president of research and development in January
2007, the company said today. He received a bachelor’s degree in
chemistry from the University of Wisconsin and a Ph.D. in
chemistry from Harvard University.  
 On March 8, Exelixis fired 270 people, or 40 percent of its
staff, to focus its efforts on drugs that are closest to
regulatory approval, which the company said would save it $90
million through 2011.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        