-- Biogen Idec Appoints Exelixis's George Scangos as Chief to Succeed Mullen
-- Elizabeth Lopatto
-- 2010-06-30T20:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/biogen-is-said-to-name-exelixis-s-george-scangos-as-ceo-to-succeed-mullen.html

          
          
             Biogen Idec Inc.,  the world’s
largest maker of multiple sclerosis treatments, will name  George A. Scangos  chief executive officer as early as today, according
to a person familiar with the hiring process.  
 Scangos will leave  Exelixis Inc ., where he has been chief
executive since 1996, to replace former Biogen CEO  James Mullen ,
who retired June 8, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the deliberations are private.  
 Biogen’s new CEO starts as the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based drugmaker struggles to expand the use of its fastest-
growing drug, Tysabri, and has engaged in repeated proxy fights
with billionaire investor  Carl Icahn . Under Scangos, Exelixis,
with no marketed products, made medicine-development deals with
companies led by  Pfizer Inc. , the world’s largest drugmaker.  
 “He’s a very good dealmaker, but I wouldn’t say Exelixis
has done the best job at translating science into novel
molecules that come to the marketplace,”  Michael King , an
analyst for Wedbush Morgan Securities in New York, said today in
a telephone interview. “It remains to be seen what he’ll do at
a company the size of Biogen.”  
 Biogen fell $1.25, or 2.6 percent, to $47.45 at 4:01 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading . Exelixis
declined 14 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $3.47.  
 Biogen confirmed the appointment in a statement today,
saying Scangos would start July 15. Scangos, 62, will also be
named to the board of directors, Biogen said.  
 Exelixis promoted  Michael Morrissey , 49, president of
research and development, to chief executive officer, effective
July 15. Scangos will remain on the board, and Morrissey will
become a director, Exelixis said in a statement today.  
 Exelixis IPO  
 Scangos steered South San Francisco, California-based
Exelixis through its initial public offering in 2000. He has a
bachelor’s degree in biology from Cornell University and a Ph.D.
in microbiology from the University of Massachusetts, according
to his profile on Exelixis’s  website . He is chairman of San
Diego-based biotechnology firm  Anadys Pharmaceuticals Inc. , the
maker of hepatitis C treatments.  
 At Exelixis, he  licensed  rights to nine compounds to
drugmakers including London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc ,  Roche
Holding AG , based in Basel, Switzerland, and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co.  and Pfizer, both in New York. Exelixis is also
jointly developing four drugs with Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis SA 
and Bristol-Myers.  
 Licensing arrangements helped Exelixis generate $151.8
million in  revenue  last year. Exelixis has 14 experimental drugs
in human clinical testing, all but four for the treatment of
cancer, Butler said in a March 8 interview.  
 Sanofi Cancer Deal  
 Sanofi bought the rights to potential cancer drug
candidates from Exelixis in a May 2009 deal that may result in
the French drugmaker paying more than $1 billion to its U.S.
partner, the companies said at the time.  
 Exelixis signed a deal with Bristol-Myers in 2008, and
received $240 million as a result. On June 21, Bristol-Myers and
Exelixis ended the partnership on XL 184 for cancer.  
 “George has extensive experience managing a research
organization that we think we be valuable to steering Biogen’s
research efforts,” said  Geoffrey Meacham , an analyst with
JPMorgan Securities Inc. in New York, in a note to clients
today. “That said, a lack of commercial experience could create
challenges in managing the increasing competition in MS and
bringing additional products to market.”  
 Final-Stage Testing  
 Biogen has six new medicines in the third and final stage
of testing generally required for U.S. approval, according to
the company’s  website . Three, for MS, include a long-acting
version of the company’s best-seller, Avonex; a pill called BG-
12; and a treatment called daclizumab in development with  Abbott
Laboratories . Drugs for leukemia, hemophilia and heart failure
also are in final testing.  
 Mullen became CEO at Biogen in 2000, when Avonex was the
company’s lone drug on the market. Mullen oversaw the temporary
recall of Tysabri, also for MS, after it was linked to fatal
brain infections. Scangos takes over as Biogen has fallen short
of its goal for 100,000 new patients to take Tysabri, with about
50,300 in treatment as of March 31.  
 Biogen faces new competition from Novartis AG’s Gilenia
multiple sclerosis pill, which won the backing of a U.S. Food
and Drug Administration advisory panel on June 10. The drug will
threaten Tysabri’s growth, said  Bret Holley , a New York-based
analyst for Oppenheimer & Co., in a June 11 note to investors.  
 Icahn has pressured Biogen’s management since 2007 when the
company abandoned a plan to sell itself. He gained two board
members in a 2009 proxy fight and another two board members this
year to avert the company’s third proxy challenge from the
investor in as many years.  
 On March 8, Exelixis fired 270 people, or 40 percent of its
staff, to focus its efforts on drugs that are closest to
regulatory approval, which the company said would save it $90
million through 2011.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Biogen said to name Exelixis's Scangos as CEO  
                       
                         
                           Frank Polich/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Biogen said to name George Scangos as new CEO. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Biogen said to name George Scangos as new CEO. Photographer: Frank Polich/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
