-- BlackRock's Hambro to Oversee First U.S. Mutual Fund as Gold Prices Rally
-- Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam
-- 2010-06-30T22:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/blackrock-s-hambro-to-oversee-first-u-s-mutual-fund-as-gold-prices-rally.html

          
          
             BlackRock Inc.’s  Evy Hambro , whose
gold fund in Europe has beaten most of its rivals, started the
firm’s first gold mutual fund in the U.S. as demand for the
metal rises on concern that global economic growth is slowing.  
 BlackRock World Gold Fund  is a version of funds available
only outside the U.S., Hambro, 38, said today in a telephone
interview from his London office. BlackRock also plans to cut
fees on its  iShares Comex Gold Trust  exchange-traded fund to
0.25 percent of assets from 0.4 percent,  Robert Fairbairn , head
of New York-based BlackRock’s global client group, said in an
interview.  
 BlackRock, the world’s biggest asset manager, is courting
investors seeking refuge from financial-market volatility and
the European debt crisis. Concern that growth is slowing sent
gold to a record high of $1,265.30 an ounce. Hambro oversees
about $35 billion in natural-resources funds, including the
 BlackRock Gold and General Fund , which has gained an annualized
26 percent over the past decade to beat all but two similar
funds over that period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Gold has been a serious safe haven for thousands of
years,” Hambro said. “In today’s unstable environment, gold is
coming back into people’s minds as the place to be in.”  
 BlackRock  acquired Barclays Global Investors  on Dec. 1 to
add the industry’s biggest lineup of ETFs. The transaction was
the largest to bring together active funds, in which portfolio
managers select securities, and passive ones such as ETFs, which
track market indexes. Fairbairn said BlackRock is a “strong
believer” that investors can use both strategies to invest in a
range of assets, including gold.  
 ‘More Opportunities’  
 “Gold investing for retail investors has been far from
mainstream,” especially in the U.S., Fairbairn said. “This
brings U.S. investors more opportunities.”  
 The $3.4 billion iShares Comex Gold Trust, which invests in
bullion, planned to issue 409.8 million shares as part of a 10-
for-1 split, according to a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission filing on June 24. Holdings in ETFs backed by bullion
have soared this year, with the largest, the SPDR Gold Trust,
rising 13 percent to $52.7 billion in assets. The fund is
overseen by State Street Corp. in Boston.  
 Gold, heading for its 10th straight annual gain, is up 13
percent this year, beating stocks and bonds. The MSCI World
Index of equities has fallen 11 percent while the BarCap U.S.
Aggregate Total Return Index for bonds has climbed 5.3 percent.  
 Hambro’s BlackRock Gold and General Fund, which invests in
gold-mining and precious-metals companies, has advanced 17
percent this year.  
 Forces contributing to higher prices for the metal include
a decline in production since its 2001 peak, purchases by
individuals and institutions and a move by central banks
worldwide to accumulate gold reserves, Hambro said. Those
factors will continue to lift prices, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        