-- BOE's Posen Says Tentative Recovery Is At Risk From Budget Squeeze, Europe
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-30T09:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/boe-s-posen-says-tentative-recovery-is-at-risk-from-budget-squeeze-europe.html

          
          
             Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said the U.K. economy is “tentatively” recovering and
risks falling back into recession because of the squeeze on
government budgets throughout Europe.  
 “With the strong recovery outside of western Europe
proceeding on one side, and the coming austerity at home and in
the euro area on the other, I think the U.K. is still poised
between two very different outcomes,” Posen said in a speech in
London today. “That leaves the U.K. economy tentatively in the
recovery state, but still subject to switching back into the
recession state.”  
 Posen voted with the majority on the bank’s Monetary Policy
Committee to keep the  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of
0.5 percent this month, against  Andrew Sentance , who made the
first push for an increase in almost two years. The bank’s
emergency monetary stimulus has helped create a “mild upward
creep in inflation expectations,” Posen said.  
 “A small slow upwards creep in inflation expectations is
not worth panicking over, and certainly is not a reason to
tighten policy when the forecast argues against so doing,” the
policy maker said. “That kind of creep is indeed what I believe
that we are seeing.”  
 However, “monetary policy set to be loose enough to
prevent falling into recession situation will be too loose if it
is successful in preventing that outcome and will continue to
feed a slow  rise  in inflation expectations,” Posen said. “I
believe that this situation is still the one which the U.K.
economy faces, and thus the MPC must confront as well.”  
 Debt Crisis  
 Bank officials are balancing the threat of  inflation 
against the potential impact from the euro-area sovereign debt
crisis on U.K.  growth . Even as the officials split on the
decision to raise interest rates at their June 10 meeting, they
unanimously voted to keep the size of their bond holdings at 200
billion pounds ($302 billion).  
 While the U.K’s recession caused by the global financial
crisis in 2008 has not differed greatly from other countries,
the British economy does stand out for having higher inflation,
Posen said.  The pound  has lost about a quarter of its value on a
trade-weighted basis since the start of 2007, while the price of
crude oil has gained 75 percent since the start of 2009 and the
U.K. government raised a sales tax.  
 ‘Too Loose’  
 Still, “it is difficult to attribute the rise in inflation
in the U.K. solely or even primarily to ‘one-off’ factors,”
Posen said. “This creep is the unsurprising result of having
set monetary policy to prevent a terrible downside risk, and
finding policy appears too loose if that risk thankfully does
not come to pass.”  
 If the U.K. economy’s recovery becomes more entrenched,
posing risks to inflation, then “I would be only too happy to
vote for an interest rate increase,” he said. Still, “I regret
to say that I am not as confident, however, that we will get to
that favorable situation.”  
 Should the bank raise interest rates, “that would end
inflation creep very quickly,” Posen said.  
 Fellow MPC member  Paul Fisher  said the rate-setting panel
is “clear” on what it would have to do if inflation pressures
persist in “the medium term,” according to remarks released
yesterday by the central bank. While inflation should ease from
its current level, there are “risks on both sides,” he said.  
 Sentance voted for an interest-rate increase after
 inflation  accelerated above the government’s 3 percent upper
limit. The rate was at 3.4 percent in May.  
 “The diversity of views made public recently should be a
clear signal to observers of how seriously we are discussing
this issue within the committee,” Posen said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        