-- Bond Sales Drop to 2004 Levels as Cash Builds: Credit Markets
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-06-30T16:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/bond-sales-plunge-as-cash-hoards-allow-debt-to-beat-equity-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Companies are selling the fewest
bonds since 2004 as rising cash levels let borrowers weather
concern that the global economy is slowing.  
 Offerings fell 39 percent to $1.17 trillion in the first
half from the same period in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The decline was led by financial companies, which
issued 35 percent less debt.  
 Borrowers, with 15 percent more cash than a year earlier,
are relying less on capital markets amid concern that Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis may slow the economic recovery. Corporate
bonds are beating stocks by the most in nine years, returning
4.9 percent in the first six months, compared with the  MSCI
World Index,  which is down 9 percent.  
 “Companies are sitting on lots of cash,” said  Michael Collins , senior investment officer at Prudential Investment
Management Inc. in Newark, New Jersey, with about $240 billion
of fixed-income assets. “They don’t have a lot of confidence in
the growth trajectory of the economy or their businesses, so
they’re definitely reticent to expand capacity” and raise debt,
he said.  
 Cash at investment-grade companies rose to $668 billion at
the end of the first quarter from $580 billion a year earlier,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  in New York
wrote last week. Debt fell 2 percent to $2.3 trillion.  
 “There is no panic,” said  James Lee , who helps oversee
$7.6 billion of fixed-income assets as an analyst at Calvert
Asset Management in Bethesda, Maryland. Large companies are
sitting on “massive amounts” of cash after they “stuffed
their pockets” last year, he said.  
 Spreads Widen  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold corporate bonds instead of government debt rose 1
basis point to 196 basis points, or 1.96 percentage point,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate index. That’s up from 149 basis points at the end of
the first quarter and 176 basis points on Dec. 31.  
 The cost to protect corporate debt from default in the U.S.
fell from a two-week high after a report showed business
activity grew for a ninth month and the European Central Bank
said it will lend the region’s banks less money than forecast.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or speculate on creditworthiness, fell
2.25 basis points from a two-week high to a mid-price of 120
basis points, according to Markit Group Ltd. The index has
climbed from 88.1 basis points on March 31.  
 European Credit Risk  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125 investment-
grade companies was 3 basis points lower at 130.5, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London.  
 The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 In emerging markets, spreads declined 4 basis point to 332
basis points, according to JPMorgan’s Emerging Market Bond
index. The gap has widened from 249 basis points at the end of
March and 277 since December.  
 U.S. investment-grade companies have sold $130.1 billion of
corporate bonds this quarter, down 48 percent from the first
three months of 2010, bringing the year’s total to $381.8
billion, Bloomberg data show. The debt has returned 3.2 percent
in the quarter and 5.96 percent this year, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master index.  
 Wal-Mart, Campbell Soup  
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s largest retailer, plans
to sell debt due in 5, 10 and 30 years today in a benchmark
offering, according to a person familiar with the transaction
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. A
benchmark issue is typically at least $500 million.  
 Campbell Soup Co. may raise $400 million to finance future
acquisitions and repay short-term debt in the Camden, New
Jersey-based company’s biggest bond issuance since 2002. The
maker of Pepperidge Farm cookies and Prego Italian sauces may
pay a spread of 65 basis points on the seven-year senior notes,
a person familiar with the sale said.  
 High-yield, high-risk issuance fell to $47.8 billion in the
quarter from $70.7 billion in the first three months, Bloomberg
data show. Speculative-grade bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, have
lost 0.06 percent in the quarter, paring the year’s gain to 4.75
percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
High Yield Master II index.  
 Global Debt Sales  
 Credit markets began to unravel in April as European
leaders failed to convince investors they could keep the
region’s debt crisis from escalating. Global sales totaled $768
billion in the first quarter before tumbling to $399.4 billion
in the current period, Bloomberg data show.  
 The plunge was most notable in Europe, where investment-
grade sales this year fell 53 percent from 2009 to 334.3 billion
euros ($410.3 billion), the least since 2002, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 “Corporates decided that liquidity was absolutely
everything to them,” said  Benjamin Bennett , who helps manage
the equivalent of $125 billion of corporate bonds as credit
strategist at Legal & General Investment Management in London.
“We were all looking at the maturity schedule and companies
came out and tackled it.”  
 Financial companies sold $252.3 billion in the quarter,
bringing issuance to $793 billion for the first half, the lowest
start since 2003, Bloomberg data show.  
 Financial Legislation  
 The U.S. Congress is set to vote on changes to bank
regulations designed to rein in private derivatives for the
first time. An aim of the bill is to require standardized
interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps to be traded on
exchanges or swap execution facilities before being guaranteed
by clearinghouses in exchange for the banks posting collateral.  
 European bank balance sheets are coming under heightened
scrutiny this week as a lending facility from the region’s
central bank expires. The European Central Bank said lenders
asked for 131.9 billion euros for three months today, less than
economists had forecast and signaling financial firms are
 relying less on the ECB  for funding.  
 “A lot of financial firms are not going to generate the
same earnings as in the past,” said  Mirko Mikelic , who helps
oversee $18 billion in fixed-income assets as senior money
manager at Fifth Third Asset Management in Grand Rapids,
Michigan. “People are still getting their hands around it.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Anthony Crescenzi, market strategist and portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy.
     Crescenzi, speaking from Newport Beach, California, also discusses the outlook for the global economy and financial markets. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
