-- BP Kills Turtles in Oil Containment Burns, Lawsuit Says
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-01T18:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/bp-killing-sea-turtles-in-spill-containment-burns-activists-suit-claims.html

          
          
             Endangered sea turtles are being
killed in  BP Plc ’s “controlled burns” in the Gulf of Mexico by
getting trapped inside the booms the company uses to collect
spilled oil, wildlife activists said in a  lawsuit .  
 London-based BP, which is struggling to control the largest
spill in U.S. history, should be forced to stop the burns or
ensure no turtles are caught inside the floating “corrals”
before the oil is ignited, the environmentalists said in the
suit. BP’s killing of the turtles constitutes an illegal
“taking” of an endangered species under  environmental  laws,
they claim.  
 The plaintiffs seek a temporary order restraining BP from
any activities in the Gulf of Mexico that could risk killing or
injuring endangered and threatened sea turtles, William Eubanks
and Jason Burge, lawyers for the environmentalists, said in
papers filed in New Orleans federal court yesterday.  
 Environmentalists amended the suit today to include the
U.S. Coast Guard and its top commanders, who are in charge of
efforts to contain and clean up the BP oil spill. Court
summonses were requested for Admiral Robert Papp, commandant of
the Coast Guard, and Admiral  Thad Allen , the head of the Coast
Guard’s national incident command.  
 ‘Direction of Coast Guard’  
 “Plaintiffs have recently learned that BP takes the
position that it does not have complete control over the
containment burns and that, in conducting these activities, it
is acting under the direction of the Coast Guard,” lawyers for
the wildlife groups said in an amended complaint today.  
 “If this is correct, this means that by directing BP to
conduct containment activities that are killing, injuring and
otherwise harming endangered and threatened species, the Coast
Guard is in violation of its mandatory duty” to minimize damage
to wildlife.  
 The case was reassigned to U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who set a hearing on the request for July 2. Barbier
already presides over 35 lawsuits claiming spill-related damages
by fishing industry workers, property owners, tourism businesses
and other environmental groups.  
 Leatherbacks, Loggerheads  
 “BP has already killed or otherwise harmed” hundreds of
rare Kemp’s Ridley, Leatherback, Loggerhead and other species of
endangered sea turtles through its use of controlled burns or as
a result of contamination from the oil spill itself, the lawsuit
claims. The animals become trapped when shrimp boats encircle
patches of floating oil with fire-resistant booms to create
“burn boxes” 60 to 100 feet in diameter, they said.  
 In affidavits filed with the lawsuit, boat captains and
turtle rescue workers say that in recent weeks they’ve saved
numerous sea turtles that were trapped in heavy oil-sludge lines
offshore, many from the same areas where trawlers are corralling
sludge for controlled burns. The turtles are too heavily oiled
to free themselves from the sludge and swim to safety, although
out of the oil they respond well to rehabilitation, the
witnesses said.  
 “Although I assume that such acts are an unintentional
consequence of BP’s controlled burning strategy, I expect that
these incidental burnings are almost certainly occurring based
on my personal observations,” said Kevin Aderhold, a Louisiana
charter boat captain involved in the sea turtle rescue effort.  
 BP spokesman Tony Odone said the company had no comment on
pending litigation.  
 BP has yet to contain a damaged underwater well that has
been spewing as much as 60,000 barrels of crude oil daily off
the Louisiana coast since the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
burned and sank in April.  
 The case is Animal Welfare Institute v. BP America Inc. et
al, 2:10-cv-01866, U.S. District Courts, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Controlled oil burns conducted by BP in the Gulf of Mexico are killing sea turtles, according to a lawsuit. Photographer: Justin E. Stumberg/U.S. Navy via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
