-- BP Says Biggest Ocean Swells Have Passed Leaking Gulf of Mexico Oil Well
-- Jessica Resnick-Ault
-- 2010-06-30T14:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/bp-says-biggest-ocean-swells-have-passed-leaking-gulf-of-mexico-oil-well.html

          
          
             BP Plc  said the biggest of the waves
associated with Hurricane Alex have passed its leaking oil well
in the Gulf of Mexico. Efforts to skim crude from the surface or
contain it in floating barriers remain suspended due to weather.  
 Sea swells of seven feet to eight feet (2.1 meters to 2.4
meters) triggered the second day of suspended skimming and
booming operations near the spill, said Brian Ferguson, a
spokesman at the  Joint Information Center  in New Orleans.  
 The swells are due to weather patterns created by Hurricane
Alex, the first named storm of this hurricane season and the
first June hurricane in the Atlantic since 1995. Oil companies
including Exxon Mobil Corp. and ConocoPhillips have evacuated
workers in the Gulf and girded for a storm surge that may affect
production and refineries in the region.  
 “I think that’s likely to be out of the way of this well
site,”  Robert Wine , a spokesman for London-based BP, said of
the storm in a telephone interview today.  
 The storm, with maximum sustained winds of 80 miles (130
kilometers) an hour, was 220 miles southeast of Brownsville,
Texas, and heading northwest at 7 mph, the National Hurricane
Center said in  an advisory  just before 8 a.m. in Miami. The
hurricane was forecast to intensify before making landfall.  
 The storm has halted about 25 percent of crude production
in the Gulf and 9 percent of natural-gas output, the U.S.
government said.  
 While the track of this storm would bypass the leaking BP
well, according to current models there is more than a 40
percent chance of at least one storm passing by the well by the
end of August, according to Risk Management Solutions Inc., a
Newark, California-based consulting firm.  
 There is about a 13 percent chance a hurricane will pass
directly over the slick, and a 7 percent chance that it will be
an intense hurricane of Category 3 or higher on the Saffir-
Simpson scale, Risk Management said in a statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        