-- BP-to-Goldman Boards Become Hot Seats for College Presidents
-- Janet Lorin
-- 2010-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/bp-to-goldman-boards-becoming-hot-seats-for-conflicted-college-presidents.html

          
          
             As much as higher education and
corporate America would like to be engaged, college presidents
are struggling to reconcile the demands and values of academia
with shareholder skepticism about their boardroom commitments.  
   Marathon Oil Corp . investors cast 67.5 million votes
against  Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  President Shirley Ann
Jackson in April after a shareholder questioned whether she had
time to serve. At  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., Brown University
President Ruth Simmons declined to stand for reelection in May,
citing time demands, amid student criticism of her tie to the
company, which was involved in the Wall Street meltdown.  
 University System of Georgia Chancellor Erroll B. Davis Jr.
is a defendant in at least two lawsuits stemming from  BP Plc ’s
oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, even though he quit BP’s board
in April, five days before the spill began.  
 “For university presidents, sitting on a corporate board
used to be a resume enhancer and a networking opportunity,”
Nell Minow, chairman of  the Corporate Library , a Portland, Maine,
company that evaluates board performance, said in an interview.
“Now it is a genuine and very demanding task with some daunting
liability -- reputational and financial.”  
 Companies recruit college presidents to add independent
voices on boards dominated by corporate officers. Shareholders
question the college leaders’ availability for board tasks.
Campus critics say chancellors, provosts and presidents should
be focusing on budget cuts and shrunken endowments, and are
tainted by the behavior of companies they serve.  
 Successive Meetings  
 Jackson of RPI, in Troy, New York, sits on five corporate
boards, more than most college presidents, after stepping down
from a sixth in April. She traveled to Milwaukee and Houston to
attend shareholder meetings for  International Business Machines
Corp . and Marathon Oil on two successive April days.  
 Shareholders at IBM, Marathon Oil,  FedEx Corp . and NYSE
Euronext filed proxy statements this year or in 2009 questioning
Jackson’s ability to juggle jobs.  
 “Nobody should be sitting on that many boards,” said
Emil Rossi, the trustee for shares who filed a proxy statement
with his son to protest Jackson’s board nomination at Armonk,
New York-based IBM, the world’s largest computer-services
provider. Of 14 candidates, Jackson placed 11th in the voting
and retained her seat. While getting the fewest votes for
election at  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc ., a Newark, New
Jersey-based utility, she also held her board post there.  
 Founded in 1824, RPI is the nation’s oldest technological
university, according to its website. Jackson earned $1.6
million from RPI in the year ended June 30, 2008, making her the
highest-paid leader of a nonprofit private college in the U.S.,
according to the latest rankings by the Chronicle of Higher
Education.  
 Reaping Fees  
 Jackson also reaped $982,628 in fees and other compensation
such as stock awards from IBM, Public Service, New York-based  NYSE Euronext  and Marathon Oil in 2009, plus $403,823 from FedEx
and  Medtronic Inc ., a Minneapolis-based medical-device maker,
for their latest completed fiscal years, proxy statements show.  
 Faculty members said Jackson isn’t devoting enough
attention to RPI’s endowment losses and credit issues. In May
2009, RPI had its debt downgraded to A3 from A2 by Moody’s
Investors Service. While retaining the rating, Moody’s in March
changed RPI’s outlook to “stable” from “negative.” RPI’s
endowment fell 23 percent in a year, to  $612.8 million on June
30 , 2009, according to the National Association of College &
University Business Officers, based in Washington.  
 “Her first priority needs to be this university,” said
Jim Napolitano, a professor of physics at RPI since 1992.  
 Keeping Jackson  
 While Jackson declined to be interviewed, her participation
on corporate boards has “resulted in wide-ranging pathways of
opportunities for Rensselaer students and faculty, and the
university as a whole,” William Walker, a spokesman for the
university administration, said in an e-mail.  
 The board of trustees voted unanimously this month to keep
Jackson as president for 10 more years, RPI said in a statement
on June 15. The board cited “historic and significant
accomplishments,” including fundraising, faculty recruitment
and buildings.  
 Jackson, 63, a physicist who formerly headed the U.S.
 Nuclear Regulatory Commission , has also earned praise from the
companies she serves.  
 “It is clear that the overwhelming majority of IBM’s
stockholders appreciate her contributions to the company,”
Edward Barbini, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  
 ‘Tremendous Asset’  
 Jackson is a “tremendous asset” to FedEx, where she has
served since 1999, Jess Bunn, a company spokesman, said in an e-
mail. FedEx, based in Memphis, Tennessee, is the world’s largest
air-cargo carrier. At Houston-based Marathon Oil, where Jackson
also remains on the board, she is “a valued contributor, with a
keen attention to detail and breadth of knowledge,” Lee Warren,
a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  
 College presidents began serving on for-profit boards at
least 30 years ago, and the number has risen in the past two
decades, said  James H. Finkelstein , a professor of public policy
at  George Mason University ’s campus in Arlington, Virginia.
Finkelstein surveyed more than 100 universities in 2000 and
found that one-third of the presidents served on one to five
boards, mostly in finance, manufacturing and technology.  
 Board service was once focused on the most-elite
institutions, and expanded to less-prestigious schools,
Finkelstein said.  
 Fundraising Tool  
 “Universities are feeling the pressure for fundraising,
and they think creating these linkages will bring them more
philanthropy, although there’s no evidence to suggest that
actually happens,” Finkelstein said in an interview.  
 Davis, the Atlanta-based chancellor of the 35-campus
 University System of Georgia  since February 2006, retired from
the BP board on April 15. On April 20, an explosion at a well in
the Gulf of Mexico led to the largest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 Having been a member of BP’s committee on safety, ethics
and environment assurance, Davis was named as a defendant in a
class-action lawsuit over investor losses in the wake of the
spill, said Robert S. Schachter, an attorney at New York-based
 Zwerling, Schachter & Zwerling , which filed the complaint in
federal court in New Orleans on June 8.  
 The suit, on behalf of investors who purchased BP
securities from Feb. 27, 2008, to May 12 this year, alleges that
“false and misleading statements were issued by BP, saying that
safety was their number-one priority,” Schachter said. Davis is
also a defendant in a suit filed in Lafayette, Louisiana, on May
21, according to court records. The value of BP’s American
depositary receipts has fallen about 53 percent since the day
before the well explosion.  
 Avoiding Distraction  
 Davis declined to comment on why he resigned from BP, John
Millsaps, a spokesman for the university system, said.  
 In a June 21 letter to the board of regents that supervises
the university system, Davis said he won’t be distracted by BP
litigation. For members of corporate boards to be sued is “the
norm,” he wrote.  
 “As a director on the boards of major corporations, I have
been named numerous times over the years in lawsuits,” Davis
wrote. “Not once in my capacity as a board member have I ever
had to give a deposition or prepare for trial. I expect that to
be the case in this instance, as well.”  
 Davis, 65, joined the board of London-based BP in December
1998, and previously served as a director of Amoco, a company
acquired by BP, according to a regulatory filing. Davis is also
a board member at Detroit-based  General Motors Co . and  Union
Pacific Corp ., the rail-transportation company based in Omaha,
Nebraska.  
 Mining Accident  
 Opposition from critics, both on campus and off, may drive
university officials from corporate boards. E. Gordon Gee,
president of Ohio State University, left  Massey Energy Co ., a
coal-mining company based in Richmond, Virginia, in July 2009,
after nine years on the board, amid criticism he was abetting a
polluter. The following April, an explosion at the company’s
Upper Big Branch mine in West Virginia killed 29 people.  
 Before the resignation, a Cleveland-based nonprofit group
called  Ohio Citizen Action  had collected signatures and letters
from more than 6,800 Ohio residents, including students, faculty
and alumni of Ohio State, urging Gee to leave Massey, said Kate
Russell, an organizer of the protest.  
 The group opposes what Russell said is Massey’s practice
of mountaintop-removal mining that adds waste to waterways.
Gee’s service at Massey was hypocritical because he was
promoting alternatives to fossil fuel while receiving fees from
the coal company, Russell said in an interview.  
 Community Detriment  
 “As a university president, he shouldn’t serve on the
boards of companies whose ability to make their profit is at the
detriment of local communities,” Russell said.  
 Gee, 66, declined to comment, said Shelly Hoffman, a
spokeswoman for the university, in Columbus, Ohio. Gee remains a
board member at Bob Evans Farms Inc., a restaurant operator, and
Grange Mutual Casualty Co., two companies also based in Columbus.  
 Gee isn’t the only college official to find his, or a
school’s, reputation affected by a corporate tie. At Brown, in
Providence, Rhode Island, students expressed concern that
Simmons’s involvement as a Goldman Sachs board member tainted
the university, said Simon Liebling, 20, a  columnist with the
Brown Daily Herald , the student newspaper.  
 “When Goldman became a pariah of Wall Street and poster
boy for greed and excess, Brown was tied up in that,” Liebling
said in an interview.  
 Simmons, 64, joined the Goldman Sachs board in January 2000,
while she was president of Smith College in Northampton,
Massachusetts.  
 Record Bonus  
 Simmons was a member of Goldman Sachs’s compensation
committee, according to company filings. In 2007, the group
approved a $67.9 million bonus, still a Wall Street record, for
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein. The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit in April
that Goldman Sachs had misled investors in mortgage-linked
securities designed to benefit a favored client at others’ loss.
The company denied wrongdoing.  
 Goldman Sachs said in February that Simmons wouldn’t stand
for reelection because of her need to spend more time at Brown.
Simmons said in an interview that criticism in the student
newspaper about her tie to the bank had “zero” to do with her
decision. She remains a director of Dallas-based  Texas
Instruments Inc ., the second-largest U.S. maker of computer
chips.  
 ‘Not Complicated’  
 “Right now, the idea is I might be able to handle one”
directorship, Simmons said in an interview. “It’s not
complicated, if you know the semiconductor industry.”  
 Simmons is one of five presidents in the Ivy League who
serve on for-profit boards -- one for each president --according
to the universities. The Ivy League consists of eight
institutions in the northeast U.S.  
 Richard C. Levin, president of Yale University in New Haven,
Connecticut, is a director at New York-based  American Express
Co ., the biggest U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases.  
 Lee Bollinger, president of Columbia University in New York,
is a board member of  Washington Post Co ., the media and
education company with headquarters in the U.S. capital.  
 Amy Gutmann, president of the University of Pennsylvania in
Philadelphia, sits on the board of Vanguard Group, a mutual-
fund-management company in Valley Forge, Pennsylvania.  
 Shirley Tilghman, president of Princeton University in
Princeton, New Jersey, is a director at  Google Inc ., the web-
search company in Mountain View, California.  
 Google, Cisco  
 Outside the Ivy League, John Hennessy, president of
Stanford University near Palo Alto, California, also is Google
director. In addition, he is a board member at  Cisco Systems
Inc ., the biggest maker of computer-networking equipment, based
in San Jose, California, and  Atheros Communications Inc ., a
Santa Clara, California-based maker of electronic products used
in communication networks.  
 Susan Hockfield, president of the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology in Cambridge, is a board member of Fairfield,
Connecticut-based  General Electric Co ., the world’s biggest
maker of jet engines, power-generation equipment and locomotives.  
 In January, the board of regents of the 10-campus
University of California system, based in Oakland, limited to
three the number of for-profit boards that chancellors and other
senior leaders can join, said Steve Montiel, a spokesman.  
 Stepping Down  
 The university system made permanent the interim rules it
had adopted in January 2007. That year, Marye Anne Fox,
chancellor of the University of California, San Diego, quit as a
director of  Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc ., a
consulting company based in Wilmington, North Carolina, to hold
her board positions to three.  
 Jeffrey Gattas, a spokesman for the university, said Fox, a
62-year-old chemist, declined to comment.  
 Even a single board seat can arouse controversy.  
 University of Washington Provost Phyllis Wise won
appointment to the board of Beaverton, Oregon-based  Nike Inc . in
November. Two months later, a group of faculty members  asked her
to step down . As provost and executive vice president, Wise is
the second-ranking official of the public university, whose
largest campus is in Seattle.  
 Wise’s role as a Nike director poses a conflict of interest
because the company and the school do business with each other,
said Janelle Taylor, leader of the University of Washington
chapter of the American Association of University Professors,
the advocacy group based in Washington, D.C.  
 ‘Just Unethical’  
 A  10-year arrangement  with Nike gives 23 campus teams free
shoes, apparel and equipment and provides $725,000 annually to
the athletic department -- a total value of at least $35 million
to the school, according to the athletics department. In return,
Nike gains exposure for its products.  
 University President Mark A. Emmert wrote to Nike, most
recently in April, asking the company to pressure contractors to
provide severance pay to minimum-wage workers who lost jobs. Two
plants had closed in January 2009 in Honduras, where
subcontractors produced Nike collegiate products, according to
the university’s Advisory Committee on Trademarks & Licensing.  
 “We’ve been pressuring the school to cut our contract with
Nike,” said Eunice How, 20, an undergraduate who is a member of
the Student Labor Action Project, a group that advocates
workers’ rights. “Provost Wise being so entwined with Nike is
just unethical.”  
 Not so, said Wise. She said she won’t be involved in
renewal of the Nike contract, which expires in June 2019, and is
at least “two or three steps removed” from dealings between
university officials and the company.  
 “The concern about a conflict of interest there is
unfounded,” Wise, 65, said in an interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Shirley Ann Jackson, president of Rensselaer Polytechnic  
                       
                         
                           Jay Mallin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Shirley Ann Jackson, president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, speaks in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Shirley Ann Jackson, president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, speaks in Washington. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ruth Simmons, president of Brown University, speaks during an interview in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
