-- BP Would Be Barred From New Offshore Oil Leases Under Bill in U.S. House
-- Jeff Plungis
-- 2010-06-30T19:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/bp-would-be-barred-from-u-s-offshore-leases-in-proposal-by-house-s-miller.html

          
          
             BP Plc  would be barred from new U.S.
offshore oil and gas leases for as long as seven years under
legislation being drafted by Representative  George Miller , who
cited the company’s safety and environmental violations.  
 BP “has a flagrant history of taking risks to boost
profits that has resulted in deaths of workers, destruction of
the environment and economic chaos in local communities,”
Miller said today in an e-mailed statement. Miller plans to
offer his bill as an amendment to legislation that would
overhaul drilling rules.  
 President  Barack Obama ’s administration and lawmakers are
considering penalties that would limit BP’s U.S. operations. In
addition to  BP’s  Gulf spill, Miller cited a 2005 explosion at
BP’s Texas City refinery that killed 15 workers and a 2006
pipeline leak that dumped 200,000 gallons of crude at Prudhoe
Bay, Alaska, as reasons for his legislation.  
 “Serial violators ought to face consequences, and one of
those consequences should be denying” BP and oil-producing
companies “with this kind of record the right to drill in
America’s offshore waters,” Miller said in the statement.  
 The U.S. also may revoke BP’s status as operator of
producing wells in the Gulf, such as Thunder Horse, or of leases
at Prudhoe Bay,  David Pursell , a managing director at Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. LLC, a Houston investment bank, said this
month. Congress also is weighing measures to bar BP from
contracts with the Department of Defense and  Environmental
Protection Agency .  
 Administration Powers  
 The administration has the power to force BP out as
operator of existing leases on federal lands and offshore
tracts. The operator, typically the partner with a majority
interest, is designated before drilling begins. The Interior
Department tracks each operator’s performance and may
“disapprove or revoke your designation as operator” based on
accidents, pollution events or other cases of noncompliance, a  
 Obama has said it is in the best interest of the U.S. to 
have BP remain financially sound and pay all claims.  
 “BP is a strong and viable company, and it is in all of
our interests that it remain so,” he said on June 16 after
meeting at the White House with BP’s chairman and chief
executive officer.  
 Miller said his legislation would block the Interior
secretary from issuing offshore leases to a company that is
determined to be a danger to workers and natural resources based
on a review of records for all subsidiaries and partnerships.  
 Spills in the Gulf, Alaska and the Texas City refinery
explosion are “part of a pattern of BP’s history of reckless
behavior,” Miller said.  
 BP’s  American depositary receipts , each representing six
ordinary shares, have dropped 53 percent since the day before
the April 20 explosion and the shares in London have declined 51
percent. The ADRs rose $1.10, or 4 percent, to $28.77 at 3:08
p.m. in New York trading.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Geimann in Washington at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representative George Miller is drafting legislation to overhaul drilling rules. Photographer: Jay Westcott/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
