-- Brazilian Local Bonds Beat Emerging-Market Debt by Most in Three Quarters
-- Gabrielle Coppola
-- 2010-06-30T17:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/brazilian-local-bonds-beat-emerging-market-debt-by-most-in-three-quarters.html

          
          
             Brazilian real-denominated bonds are
beating emerging-market debt by the most since September as
central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  raises interest rates,
bolstering confidence in his efforts to contain inflation.  
 Local bonds returned 1.6 percent in the second quarter in
dollar terms, compared with an average  loss  of 1.1 percent for
developing nations, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  GBI-EM
Broad indexes . The last time Brazil’s bonds led by that much was
in the three months ending in September, when Moody’s Investors
Service lifted the country’s rating to the lowest investment-
grade ranking of Baa3.  
 Meirelles raised the benchmark 1.5 percentage points since
April from a record low of 8.75 percent to cool the fastest
expansion in 15 years. Investors added a net $3 billion to
dollar-and real-denominated government bonds in the first five
months, compared with $2.6 billion in all of 2009, according to
data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm
EPFR Global.  
 “The central bank is taking steps to anchor inflation and
inflation expectations,” said  Pablo Cisilino , who helps manage
$13.5 billion in emerging-market debt, including real-
denominated securities, at Stone Harbor Investment Partners in
New York. “We continue to see flows into the country.”  
 Real Rates  
 Economists  lowered their forecast  for the inflation rate
this year to 5.6 percent from 5.7 percent in May, according to
the median estimate in a central bank survey published this
week. The central bank said today that it forecasts consumer
prices will rise 5.4 percent this year as the economy expands
7.3 percent.  Inflation  slowed to 5.2 percent last month from 5.3
percent in April. The government targets an annual rate of 4.5
percent.  
 Brazil’s 10.25 percent overnight rate amounts to 5 percent
after adjusting for inflation. The real rate, while down from 11
percent when President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  took office in
2003, is the third-highest among 53 economies tracked by
Bloomberg. Croatia has the highest, at 6.6 percent, followed by
Latvia’s 5.8 percent.  
 “There is no country in the world with such sound economic
policies paying such high yields like Brazil,” said  Diego Donadio , an economist with BNP Paribas in Sao Paulo. “If you
have a stabilization in the international market, Brazilian
bonds will outperform other emerging-market bonds.”  
 Brazilian real bonds have advanced 3.1 percent this year,
compared with a 2.9 percent average gain for emerging market
local debt. Yields on Brazil’s benchmark 10 percent bonds due in
2017 fell to a one-year low of 12.22 percent today.  
 Stone Harbor’s Cisilino estimates the yield on Brazil’s
bond maturing in 2021 will decline 100 basis points, or 1
percentage point, this year from 12.34 percent today.  
 Global Rout  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed three basis points to
246 today, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index. The so-called
spread has widened 61 basis points in the quarter as the dollar
bonds  returned  2.9 percent.  
 The real gained 0.9 percent to 1.7975 per dollar today,
trimming its loss this year to 3 percent.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against default for
five years surged 10 basis points to 139 yesterday, according to
data compiled by CMA DataVision, a London-based credit
information provider. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  
 Overnight Futures  
 In the overnight interest-rate futures market, the yield on
the contract due in January was unchanged at 11.34 percent
today, signaling traders expect Meirelles to raise the benchmark
rate to about 12 percent by year-end.  
 Inflation-linked bonds due in 2020 yielded 6.44 percent
yesterday, down from 10.2 percent on similar-maturity debt four
years earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Brazil is aiming to cut inflation-adjusted borrowing costs
to 4 percent under the next president, less than half the level
in 2006, as the economy expands and the government reins in
spending, Deputy Treasury Secretary  Paulo Valle  said in a June
21 interview in New York. Brazilians are slated to elect a
successor to Lula in October.  
 “This is a secular trend for the real rates to converge to
the average of emerging markets,” said Stone Harbor’s Cisilino.
“There will be volatility, but the trend is there.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        