-- Brazil Congressman Costa Selected as Serra's Running Mate for October Vote
-- Maria Luiza Rabello
-- 2010-06-30T22:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/brazil-congressman-costa-selected-as-serra-s-running-mate-for-october-vote.html

          
          
             Brazil congressman Indio da Costa of
the opposition  Democrats  party was named presidential candidate
 Jose Serra ’a running mate as he seeks to regain the lead in
polls ahead of October’s election.  
 The Democrats, in a convention to announce their support
for Serra, approved Costa’s nomination by unanimous vote.  
 “He’s a young man, but experienced,” Serra said in a
speech to the convention. “We are two different generations
together.”  
 Costa, 39, has a law degree from Rio de Janeiro’s Candido
Mendes University. He began his political career in 1997 as a
city councilman in Rio, where he focused on legislation to
promote tourism and improve the quality of life by requiring
citizens to clean up after their dogs on sidewalks, according to
his  website .  
 “He’s a young face, but an experienced politician,”
Antonio Carlos Magalhaes Neto, vice president of the Democrats,
told reporters in Brasilia. “He will have a lot to add to the
ticket.”  
 The Democrats are the second biggest opposition force in
Congress and Serra’s main coalition partner as he competes
against former Cabinet Chief  Dilma Rousseff , who is running on
President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s Workers’ Party ticket.  
 In 2006, Costa was elected to congress from his home state.
He’s the sponsor of the so-called “clean record” law passed
this year that bans some convicted criminals from seeking
elected office.  
 Rousseff’s Lead  
 “I’m very proud to be given the chance to work alongside
one of Brazil’s most qualified men,” Costa told the convention
of 350 party members today.  
 Rousseff overtook Serra for the first time in an Ibope
poll published June 23 on behalf of the National Industrial
Confederation. Rousseff, who has never run for elected office
before, had the support of 40 percent of those surveyed,
compared with 35 percent for Serra and 9 percent for  Marina Silva , Lula´s former environment minister. An additional 10
percent were undecided.  
 The nationwide survey of 2,002 people has a margin of error
of 2 percentage points.  
 The Democrats settled on Costa after resisting attempts by
Serra’s  Brazilian Social Democracy Party , or PSDB, to select
Senator  Alvaro Dias  as the candidate’s running mate.  
 Serra, 68, is the former governor of Sao Paulo, Brazil’s
wealthiest and most populous state. His party is the country’s
biggest opposition group. It last held the presidency from 1995
through 2002, under  Fernando Henrique Cardoso .  
 Election History  
 Serra lost a presidential runoff in October 2002, taking 39
percent of the vote to Lula’s 61 percent.  
 Serra, who was exiled in Chile and the U.S. during part of
Brazil´s 1964 to 1985 military dictatorship, has been critical
of Lula´s handling of Latin America´s biggest economy as growth
accelerated in the first quarter to 9 percent, the fastest in
two decades.  
 Among his targets is Brazil´s  central bank , which he says
waited too long to cut interest rates following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008. In May, he said
he was “worried” about high interest rates and that the
central bank shouldn´t be treated like the “Vatican.”  
 In an interview last night with TV Globo, Serra said he
would maintain the bank’s current operational autonomy if
elected.  
 “The bank will stay just like it is now,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        