-- Brazilian Central Bank Sees Faster Inflation This Year on 7.3% GDP Growth
-- Arnaldo Galvao
-- 2010-06-30T17:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/brazilian-central-bank-sees-2011-inflation-at-5-in-its-reference-scenario.html

          
          
             Brazil’s economy may expand at the
 fastest pace  in more than two decades in 2010, pushing inflation
further above the government’s target this year and next, policy
makers said in their quarterly inflation  report .  
 Consumer prices will rise 5.4 percent this year, up from
5.2 percent forecast in the bank’s March report, as Latin
America’s biggest economy grows 7.3 percent, according to policy
makers’ base case scenario. The bank in March forecast growth of
5.8 percent this year.  
 Inflation will remain “well above” the government’s 4.5
percent target this year and slow to 5 percent in a “less
challenging” scenario in 2011. In March, the bank had forecast
inflation next year reaching 4.9 percent.  
 Today’s report doesn’t drastically alter the central bank’s
“hawkish” view of the economy, said  Jankiel Santos , chief
economist at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento. He estimates
policy makers, led by President  Henrique Meirelles , will raise
the Selic rate to as high as 12.5 percent, enough to slow
inflation to 4.6 percent in 2011.  
 “The central bank is not considering lower growth than the
market is estimating,” Santos said in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo.  
 With the bank determined to contain inflation that has
worsened since the first quarter’s stronger-than-forecast
growth, the balance of risks is tilted toward even steeper rate
increases, Santos said.  
 The real strengthened 1 percent to 1.7957 per U.S. dollar
at 12:59 p.m. New York time from 1.8134 yesterday. In the
overnight interest-rate future market, the yield on the contract
due in January, the most traded on the Sao Paulo BM&F exchange,
was unchanged at 11.34 percent. Yields on 14 of 16 contracts
traded today rose.  
 ‘Virtual Exhaustion’  
 Policy makers expressed concern that a recent increase in
manufacturing costs has not yet affected consumer prices. Robust
domestic demand may lead to a “virtual exhaustion” of spare
capacity, they added.  
 “There is significant resistance to the fall of inflation
in Brazil,” the bank said in the report. “Regular and almost
automatic price-increase mechanisms, de jure and/or de facto,
contribute to prolong inflationary pressures seen in the past.”  
 Brazilians may see an increase in disposable income and
have more access to credit this year, central bank economic
policy director  Carlos Hamilton  told reporters in Brasilia
today. More credit makes the bank’s policy moves more efficient,
he said.  
 “The effort to obtain a reduction in inflation rates today
is less than was necessary to obtain a similar reduction in
2006,” Hamilton said. “Brazilian monetary policy is more
effective as credit expands.”  
 Fiscal policy  
 “The central bank continues to talk tough, signaling it
will maintain the monetary tightening,”  Silvio Campos Neto ,
chief economist at Banco Schahin SA, said in a phone interview
today from Sao Paulo. “The challenge in this scenario of more
growth and inflation is how to reconcile fiscal and monetary
policies, something we do not see currently.”  
 Brazil’s fiscal results this year are “more favorable”
when compared with a year ago and the government may reduce
spending while increasing investment as tax revenue recovers
throughout the year, the bank said in the report.  
 The central bank “doesn’t contemplate” big fiscal policy
mistakes this year and Brazil’s nominal budget deficit is
“under control,”, Hamilton said.  
 “Our deficit is deficit is lower than many developed
countries’,” Hamilton said. “We’re in an inverse situation,
with a deficit under control and a decreasing net debt-to-GDP
ratio.”  
 ‘Main Risk’  
 Brazil’s economy expanded 9 percent in the first quarter
over the same period last year, the biggest jump in more than
two decades and the fastest-growing among the seven-biggest
Latin American economies tracked by Bloomberg. Unemployment may
end 2010 at a record 7 percent low, the bank forecast.  
 Policy makers have raised the benchmark interest rate twice
this year to 10.25 percent to prevent the economy from
overheating. The central bank will lift the Selic by 75 basis
points for a third time in July, the bank’s weekly survey of
about 100 economists published this week showed.  
 “On the domestic side, the main risk comes from the
possibility that inflation and inflation expectations remain
above target due to the increased use of productive capacity and
expansion of domestic demand,” the bank said.  
 The report said the financial crisis in Europe continues to
weigh on the economy and is the cause for some caution. Faster
growth in Brazil is also boosting imports, which may jump 27.8
percent this year, while exports grow 12.6 percent, the bank
predicted.  
 Inflation  has remained above the government’s target every
month this year, decelerating to 5.06 percent in the year
through mid-June on lower food and transportation costs.
Consumer prices will accelerate 5.55 percent this year, the
central bank weekly survey of economists showed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        