-- Britain to Lose 610,000 Government Jobs by 2016 in Deepest Postwar Squeeze
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-30T17:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/britain-to-lose-610-000-government-jobs-by-2016-in-deepest-postwar-squeeze.html

          
          
             Britain will shed 610,000 public-
sector workers over the next five years as the coalition
government implements the deepest spending squeeze since World
War II, the country’s new fiscal watchdog said.  
 The state will employ 4.92 million people by April 2016
compared with 5.53 million in the current fiscal year, according
to figures released today by the Office for Budget
Responsibility. Total employment in the economy is forecast to
rise by 1.34 million to 30.23 million.  
 “There will be reductions in public-sector employment but
growth in the private sector more than makes up for that,”
Prime Minister  David Cameron  told lawmakers in Parliament today.  
 Labour Party acting leader  Harriet Harman  accused Cameron
of making ideologically motivated cuts after the Guardian
newspaper reported that Treasury officials privately forecast
last week’s budget would cost 1.3 million jobs across the
economy.  
 The budget office brought forward publication of the data
by one day, Cameron’s spokesman,  Steve Field , told reporters in
London today. He denied that its head, former Bank of England
policy maker Alan Budd, had come under pressure from ministers
to publish the figures in time for Cameron’s weekly questions
session in Parliament.  
 “It was their decision and they are independent,” Field
said.  
 Labour Policies  
 Cameron said the budget office figures show the policies of
the previous Labour government would have led to public-sector
jobs being lost at a faster rate and that unemployment is
forecast to fall in each of the next five years.  
 Cameron, whose Conservative Party took power with the
Liberal Democrats after the May 6 election, is proposing
spending cuts and tax rises totaling 113 billion pounds ($170
billion) to slash a deficit of 11 percent of economic output.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is due to set
budgets for each department in a spending review in October,
with most facing inflation-adjusted cuts of 25 percent by 2015.  
 The Treasury said a public-sector pay freeze over two years
would help safeguard 150,000 jobs.  
 The Guardian reported that unpublished estimates seen by
the newspaper project that as many as 600,000 public-sector
jobs may go by 2015, which is in line with the watchdog’s
forecasts although they reflect both Labour and the coalition
government plans.  
 The Treasury said the Guardian’s report of as many as
700,000 private-sector job losses are wrong and probably based
on the extrapolation of one year’s figures over the whole five-
year period.  
 Economist Skepticism  
 The Treasury also said the Guardian’s figures came from an
early-June forecast and fails to reflect the OBR’s view of the
impact of the budget on the economy.  
 The OBR figures suggest that the private sector will create
about 2 million jobs. With countries across Europe slashing
budgets deficits, the Labour opposition and some economists say
companies may struggle to take over as the engine of growth.  
 “There is no way on God’s green earth” that the private
sector is going to create the jobs the OBR assumes, said  David Blanchflower , professor of economics at Dartmouth College and a
former member of the Bank of England’s rate-setting committee.  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        