-- British Airways Union Said to Take Neutral Stance Over Pay Vote
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-07-01T09:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/british-airways-cabin-crew-union-said-to-take-neutral-stance-over-pay-vote.html

          
          
             British Airways Plc ’s cabin-crew
union will depart from its previous stance by putting the
company’s latest pay offer to members without recommending they
reject it, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  
 The 12,000 flight attendants will be asked to vote on the
package in a ballot conducted by  Electoral Reform Services Ltd. 
as early as the weekend, according to the person, who declined
to be identified because the plan hasn’t been made public.  
 Unite’s new position may indicate that it regards the
chances of securing further compromise from the British Airways
as diminishing. The carrier issued fresh proposals on June 25,
without restoring the travel perks Unite had said were key to a
deal. A previous offer was spurned by 81 percent of respondents.  
 “It’s definitively a move in the right direction,” said
 Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London with a
“hold” recommendation on British Airways stock. “At the end
of the day the dispute has to be settled. It has cost the
airline a lot of money and needs to be resolved, full stop.”  
 Europe’s third-biggest airline is seeking to prevent the
resumption of strike action in a 17-month dispute over staffing
levels and future wages. Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh ’s
latest offer would boost allowances for existing cabin crew once
new recruits join their ranks this autumn, drop plans to reduce
benefits in order to fund higher staffing levels on some
flights, and lift salaries for two years starting in 2011.  
 Unite won’t directly back the new proposals because British
Airways hasn’t compromised on the punitive measures and the
labor group will still look at resuming the strike should crews
reject it, the person said.  
 ‘Suicidal’  
 Unite scrapped plans for a strike ballot scheduled to start
on June 29 after British Airways issued the new proposals, with
 Tony Woodley , the union’s joint general secretary, saying it
would be “suicidal” not to put the offer to members.  
 Howard Wheeldon , senior strategist at BGC Partners LP, said
he’s not convinced that cabin crew will accept the new terms,
with the  British Airlines Stewards & Stewardesses Association 
section of Unite likely to back further strike action.  
 “You can’t blame Unite for going down the road it has,
because it has dug itself in a hole,” London-based Wheeldon
said by telephone. “But I would be surprised if the result of
the ballot is anything different than the previous one.”  
 Walkouts have forced British Airways to ground flights on
22 days since March 20. The carrier has said it will operate all
long-haul flights from its London Heathrow base in a new strike,
with services from Gatwick and London City airports unaffected.  
 “We have changed our offer in line with feedback we have
received from crew,” British Airways spokeswoman  Amanda Allan 
said in e-mailed comments. “Our offer is fair and reasonable
and provides a genuine opportunity to end this dispute.”  
 British Airways  traded down  2.6 percent at 190.9 pence as
of 10:24 a.m. in London. The stock has added 2.1 percent this
year for a market value of 2.26 billion pounds ($3.38 billion).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        