-- Bundesbank, BaFin Say German Banks Agree to Participate in EU Stress Test
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-06-30T14:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/bundesbank-bafin-say-german-banks-agree-to-participate-in-eu-stress-test.html

          
          
             Germany’s largest banks are
generally willing to take part in European stress tests, the
Bundesbank and financial regulator BaFin said as they met with
industry leaders today.  
 The lenders agreed “in principle” to the stress tests, to
be conducted by the Committee of European Banking Supervisors,
so long as they are based on unified criteria across the region
and adhere to existing law, the German central bank and BaFin
said in a joint statement. Detailed templates for the
calculation will be made available in a “timely” fashion,
according to the statement.  
 European Union leaders pledged on June 17 to disclose the
results of tests by the end of July showing how individual banks
would hold up to economic and market shocks. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  has said it’s important to have “maximum
transparency,” after doubts about Greece’s ability to repay its
debts undermined confidence in the region’s banks.  
 “Doing the tests is not the issue,” said  Konrad Becker ,
an analyst at Merck Finck & Co. in Munich. “The issue is
whether the results will be published, and there doesn’t seem to
be consensus on this point. It appears that the large commercial
banks are more prepared to publish and that the state-owned
lenders are more reluctant.”  
 The German government will rely on market pressure to
compel lenders to publish their stress-test results, the German
finance ministry said on June 18. Today’s statement made no
mention whether banks agreed to release the results or give the
names of lenders participating in today’s meeting.  
 A first round of tests to be published by CEBS will
probably cover about 25 of Europe’s largest banks, three people
with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  Axel Weber ,
president of the Bundesbank, told German lawmakers last week
that tests on European banks may be extended to 100 lenders,
said  Hans Michelbach , the deputy finance spokesman in parliament
for  Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        