-- Burkina Faso Sees Gold Output Rising 60%, Seeks to Lure Newmont, Iamgold
-- Firat Kayakiran
-- 2010-06-30T08:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/burkina-faso-sees-gold-output-rising-60-this-year-seeks-to-lure-newmont.html

          
          
             Burkina Faso, the gold reserve-rich
country in West Africa, says its output of the metal will surge
60 percent to 20 metric tons in 2010 as it seeks to lure foreign
mining companies including Newmont Mining Corp. and Vale SA.  
 Revenue from gold mining taxes will rise to $150 million in
five years from $30 million last year,  Abdoulaye Abdoulkader Cisse , the mining and energy minister, said in an interview in
London, where he briefed bankers on the country’s reserves.  
 Burkina Faso, with six gold mines now, will add five over
five years, Cisse said.  Cluff Gold Plc  and  Iamgold Corp.,  which
operate in the country, are in talks over new licenses, Cisse
said. Newmont is studying whether to apply, he said. The state
is also in “early stage discussions” with Vale, the biggest
iron-ore producer, on a manganese deposit in the southeast.  
 “The country is very prospective from a geological point
of view,”  Charles Kernot , an analyst at Evolution Securities in
London, said by phone. “Almost it’s a clean sheet as far as
companies are concerned and that could increase the chance of
finding things where other people haven’t looked.”  
 Douglas Chikohora , technical director at Cluff Gold, said
the company operates in the country and is always looking for
potential licenses there. Newmont, Vale and Iamgold officials
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  
 The government plans to make changes in September to the
mining code drawn up in 2003, and may increase royalty rates
paid by resource companies, Cisse said June 28.  
 Cutting Time  
 “We won’t change the corporate tax, which is 20 percent
currently,” he said. “We’ll probably increase the royalty rate
to a maximum 5 percent from 3 percent.”  
 The government also plans to cut the time it takes to begin
feasibility work after getting licenses to six months from 18
months as some companies get the approvals and then speculate on
their value without starting production, Cisse said.  
 In December, 800 companies sought exploration licenses,
double the amount the government had forecast as the country’s
mining industry attracts more interest from abroad, he said.
More than 30 companies received permits, Cisse said.  
 “Clearly there’s an intention to encourage more companies
to come into the country and invest in development and
exploration of additional mines,” Kernot said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        