-- Business Activity in U.S. Expanded for Ninth Month
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-06-30T20:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/business-activity-in-u-s-expands-for-ninth-straight-month-ism-data-show.html

          
          
             Business  activity  in the U.S.
expanded in June for a ninth straight month, showing
manufacturing is overcoming turmoil in financial markets.  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
business barometer fell to 59.1 this month, in line with the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, from
59.7 in May. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. Other
data today signaled the government’s June employment report may
show less job growth at companies than forecast.  
 Economies in developing countries are leading the recovery
from the worst global recession in the post-World War II era,
driving sales at companies including  Deere & Co.  The pace of
manufacturing may start to cool in the absence of stronger
employment gains needed to invigorate demand.  
 “The factory sector is showing some slowing but remains
quite resilient,” said  Richard DeKaser , chief economist at
Woodley Park Research in Washington. “The slowdown in
employment we’ve seen in bits and pieces is real and relatively
broad-based.”  
 Economists forecast the gauge would fall to 59, according
to the  median  of 54 estimates, which ranged from 55 to 62.9.  
 Stocks fell, extending the first quarterly retreat in the
Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  in more than a year, after Moody’s
Investors Service warned it may downgrade Spain. The S&P 500
dropped 1 percent to close at 1,030.71 in New York. Treasury
securities rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note
down to 2.94 percent from 2.95 percent late yesterday.  
 ADP Report  
 Another report today showed companies added fewer workers
this month than forecast. ADP Employer Services said private
payrolls rose 13,000 in June, the smallest in four months, after
a 57,000 increase the prior month. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected a gain of 60,000.  
 The report prompted economists at Credit Suisse to reduce
their forecast for Labor Department figures on private
employment to an increase of 75,000 from an earlier projection
of 115,000.  
 Companies added 110,000 workers in June, the Labor
Department’s July 2 report will show, according to the median
forecast of 48 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Including
government, employment dropped 125,000 this month, reflecting a
decline in federal census workers as the decennial population
count began to wind down.  
 The Chicago group’s employment measure climbed in June, and
the production gauge rose to the highest level since February.  
 ‘In Sync’  
 Sales and inventories “are very much in sync,”  Samuel Allen , chief executive officer of Deere & Co., said in an
interview June 23 in a reference to the manufacturer’s
agricultural business. The Moline, Illinois-based company also
has started adding stockpiles on the construction side in recent
months, he said.  
 “We do believe the recovery is underway,” Allen said.
“We do believe it is moving slowly. We do believe it is on
stable ground at this time.”  
 Measures of new orders and backlogs fell, while the index
of inventories dropped from the highest level since November
2006.  
 A bigger than previously estimated gain in inventories in
the first three months of the year suggests restocking will
contribute less to growth this quarter.  Stockpiles  totaled $41.2
billion and added 1.88 percentage points to growth from January
through March, according to revised gross domestic product data
released by the Commerce Department last week. The government
had previously estimated inventories at $33.9 billion.  
 Regional Figures  
 Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the outlook
nationally. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge of measure
of overall growth. Its members have operations across the
country as well as abroad.  
 Reports earlier this month showed a mixed picture for
manufacturing. The Federal Reserve Bank of  Philadelphia ’s
general economic index fell to 8 this month from 21.4 in May,
while the New York Fed’s measure increased to 19.6 from 19.1. In
each case, a reading greater than zero signals expansion.  
 The Institute for Supply Management is scheduled to release
its monthly national factory index tomorrow. The median  forecast 
of economists surveyed projects the gauge dropped to 59 this
month from 59.7 in May. The measure averaged 53.9 in the five
years leading up to December 2007, the start of the worst
recession since the 1930s.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks and the nation's economy.
     Saut, speaking from St. Petersburg, Florida, also discusses U.S. House of Representatives' approval of the financial-overhaul bill and its implications for the banking industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
