-- Canadian Man Arrested in Cyprus in Spy Case Fails to Appear Before Police
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-06-30T18:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/canadian-man-fails-to-appear-at-cyprus-police-station-in-russian-spy-case.html

          
          
             Cyprus will issue an arrest warrant
for a Canadian man sought by U.S. prosecutors in connection with
a Russian espionage ring after he failed to appear at a local
police station.  
 Robert Christopher Metsos didn’t meet with police in
Larnaca by 8 p.m. local time as required under his bail
conditions, police spokesman Michalis Katsounotos said in a
telephone interview. Metsos was arrested at  Larnaca
International Airport  yesterday and released on bail of 20,000
euros ($24,500).  
 U.S. authorities arrested 10 people on June 28 for
allegedly spying for the Russian Federation in the U.S.,
according to the  Justice Department . The Federal Bureau of
Investigation said Metsos, a purported Canadian citizen, was an
agent of the Russian espionage agency and traveled to the U.S.
to pay others in the spy ring.  
 Metsos’s lawyer in Cyprus, Michalis Papathanasiou, said
that he was informed by the press that his client didn’t appear
at the police station.  
 “I had no direct or indirect communication with my client
today, and yesterday he told me he intended to appear at the
police station,” Papathanasiou said in an interview. “My
presence at the current hearing for” the issuance of an arrest
warrant “for disobeying the court order is not required.”  
 Katsounotos said police don’t have any information on
Metsos’s whereabouts and he wasn’t under surveillance.  
 ‘Serious Risk’  
 Michalis Paraskeva, a Nicosia-based lawyer, said in a
telephone interview that he was surprised when he heard Metsos
was released on bail.  
 “Given that the suspect was wanted with an international
arrest warrant, this should have been a reason for the court not
to release him,” Paraskeva said. “The gravity of the charges
are such that, there was a serious risk that the suspect could
attempt to flee.”  
 Cyprus has been divided between its Greek and Turkish-
speaking communities since 1974, when Turkey invaded the
northern part of the island in response to a coup. The Republic
of Cyprus, represented by the Greek Cypriot community in the
south, doesn’t consider the demarcation line between the regions
as a border and there are almost no formalities for those
crossing into the north.  
 Andreas Kakouris , Cyprus’s ambassador to the U.S., didn’t
immediately return a phone message left at the embassy in
Washington.  Yusill Scribner , a spokeswoman for the U.S.
Attorney’s office in Manhattan, declined to comment.  
 New York, Boston  
 The arrests in the New York area and in Boston and
Arlington, Virginia, were the result of an investigation by U.S.
authorities into the ring, which began operating in the 1990s,
according to two criminal complaints unsealed earlier this week.  
 Metsos repeatedly traveled to the U.S. to pay the network
of spies on behalf of the Russian intelligence agency, according
to the FBI complaint.  
 In 2004, a Russian government official surreptitiously
handed money to Metsos, who divided it, giving some to one
suspect and burying some in upstate New York, the FBI said. Two
other suspects dug up the money two years later.  
 U.S. prosecutors said the alleged ring included agents
posing as American and Canadian citizens, some of them living in
the U.S. for more than 20 years. Their goal was to become
“Americanized” and pass intelligence back to the Russian
Federation, according to the complaints in the case.  
 The cases are U.S. v. Metsos; U.S. v. Chapman, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stelios Orphanides  through the Athens office at
   sorphanides@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        