-- Canadian Man Arrested in Cyprus in Spy Case Will Fight U.S. Extradition
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-06-30T15:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/canadian-man-arrested-in-cyprus-in-spy-case-will-fight-u-s-extradition.html

          
          
             A Canadian man accused by U.S.
prosecutors of delivering money to a Russian spy ring will fight
his extradition from Cyprus, his lawyer said.  
 Robert Christopher Metsos was arrested by police at  Larnaca
International Airport  yesterday on an international arrest
warrant and released on bail pending a hearing next month.  
 “My client said he would fight his extradition to the
U.S.,” Metsos’s lawyer in Cyprus, Michalis Papathanasiou, said
in a telephone interview today. He said he represented Metsos,
54, at yesterday’s bail hearing and hasn’t spoken to him today.  
 U.S. authorities arrested 10 people on June 28 for
allegedly spying for the Russian Federation in the U.S.
according to the  Justice Department . The Federal Bureau of
Investigation said that Christopher R. Metsos, a purported
Canadian citizen, was an agent of the Russian espionage agency
and traveled to the U.S. to pay others in the alleged spy ring.  
 Cyprus police spokesman Michalis Katsounotos said today
that Metsos appeared at Larnaca Police headquarters last night
pursuant to his bail conditions and must come to the station
today before 8 p.m. Metsos surrendered his travel documents and
was released on bail of 20,000 euros ($24,000).  
 An extradition hearing has been scheduled for July 29,
Katsounotos said yesterday.  
 The arrests in the New York area and in Boston and
Arlington, Virginia, were the result of an investigation by U.S.
authorities into the ring, which began operating in the 1990s,
according to two criminal complaints unsealed earlier this week.  
 U.S. prosecutors said the alleged ring included agents
posing as American and Canadian citizens, some of them living in
the U.S. for more than 20 years, with the goal of becoming
“Americanized” and passing intelligence back to the Russian
Federation, according to the complaints in the case.  
 The cases are U.S. v. Metsos; U.S. v. Chapman, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stelios Orphanides  through the Athens office at  
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        