-- Canada Economy Unexpectedly Stalls in April on `Payback' for March Growth
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-06-30T14:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/canada-economy-unexpectedly-stalls-in-april-on-payback-for-march-growth.html

          
          
             Canada’s  gross domestic product 
unexpectedly stalled in April after seven previous gains, as
retailing and manufacturing declined while mining and
wholesaling advanced.  
 Canada’s economic output remained at a seasonally adjusted
annual rate of C$1.23 trillion ($1.17 trillion) in April,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News predicted a 0.2 percent gain, based on the median
of 16 estimates.  
 The Bank of Canada says growth will slow to a 3.8 percent
annualized pace in the April-to-June period after expanding at a
6.1 percent pace in the first quarter, due in part to slower
household consumption. Consumer spending was spurred earlier
this year by temporary tax measures that have now expired, and
 mortgage rates  climbed in March and April.  
 “We’ve had a pretty strong run of growth and April will be
one of those payback months,” said  Michael Gregory , senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “It will get
everyone a little bit more worried about the near term
prospects.”  
 He predicts the Bank of Canada will raise interest rates at
its July 20 meeting and then pause.  
 The Canadian currency weakened 0.3 percent to C1.0587 per
U.S. dollar at 10:25 a.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0560
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 94.45 U.S. cents.  
 Ebbing Recovery  
 Other reports this month have signaled an ebbing recovery.
Statistics Canada said last week that  inflation  slowed to 1.4
percent in May from a year ago, and reported June 4 that
employment growth slowed to 24,700 for May from a record 108,700
jump for April.  
 Today’s report lowers the chance the Bank of Canada will
increase rates at its next meeting, because growth for May and
June must average 0.5 percent to meet the central bank’s second-
quarter forecast, said  Jonathan Basile , a Credit Suisse
economist in New York.  
 “It’s a higher hurdle to clear,” Basile said. “They were
already noncommittal after the last meeting, especially given
what was going on in European funding markets.” The bank’s June
1 rate statement said the timing of future rate increases would
weigh a domestic recovery against an uneven global recovery
including concern that European governments would be unable to
finance deficits.  
 Retails, Factories Decline  
 Retailing  fell 1.7 percent in April, almost retracing
March’s 1.9 percent increase, led by declines at new car dealers
and clothing stores. Manufacturing fell 0.3 percent, the first
decline since August 2009. Production of non-durable goods fell
1.2 percent on pharmaceuticals, printing and food.  
 An increase in  mining, oil and gas extraction , which rose
0.5 percent, helped to offset April’s declines, while wholesale
trade grew 0.6 percent, bringing its advance over the last year
to 12 percent.  
 Overall gross domestic product has gained 3.3 percent since
April 2009, Statistics Canada said today.  
 Canada’s economic recovery won’t stall if there is a
gradual removal of government and central bank stimulus, said
 Steve Snyder , chief executive officer of TransAlta Corp.,
Canada’s largest publicly traded electricity producer.  
 “At some point the stimulus has to stop and I think most
companies are prepared for that,” Snyder said in a telephone
interview from Calgary on June 23.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        