-- Cassano Defends AIG Swaps, Lewis Says `We Were Wrong'
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-06-30T14:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/cassano-defends-aig-s-swap-deals-as-lewis-says-at-hearing-we-were-wrong-.html

          
          
             Joseph J. Cassano , whose derivative
bets on subprime loans forced American International Group Inc.
into a U.S. bailout, defended the deals while the insurer’s
chief risk officer said the firm was “wrong” on the trades.  
 Cassano, 55, head of AIG’s Financial Products unit until
March 2008, said he “never compromised our standards” on the
credit-default swaps blamed for the firm’s losses, according to
remarks submitted to the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission .
Three years ago, AIG executives couldn’t envision a “scenario
within any kind of realm or reason that would see us losing $1
in any of those transactions,” Cassano told analysts then.  
 “Often repeated are my words during an earnings call in
August 2007 that I did not expect any realized, economic losses
(as opposed to unrealized accounting losses) on this
portfolio,” Cassano said in  prepared remarks  for today’s
hearing in Washington. “I meant exactly what I said.”  
 AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, received a 2008
bailout designed to protect banks that bought $62.1 billion in
swaps from the firm. The FCIC is reviewing decisions that led to
the New York-based insurer’s rescue as lawmakers seek to prevent
another company from accumulating so much risk that its collapse
could threaten global economic stability.  
 While the securities linked to swaps hadn’t defaulted in
late 2008, the market value of the assets collapsed, triggering
collateral calls that drained AIG of cash,  Robert Lewis , AIG’s
chief risk officer, said in prepared remarks.  
 ‘We Were Wrong’  
 “We were wrong about how bad things could get,” Lewis
said. “What ended up happening was so extreme that it was
beyond anything we had planned for.”  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  President  Gary Cohn  and Chief
Financial Officer  David Viniar  are also slated to appear before
the FCIC during the two-day hearing. Goldman collected $12.9
billion after the rescue from contracts with AIG.  
 Viniar has said that collateral agreements would have
helped protect the firm, among AIG’s biggest counterparties,
against default. AIG’s $182.3 billion bailout ensured that
Goldman Sachs was paid in full.  
 Cassano had shied away from public statements while
regulators investigated his role in the swaps trades. The U.S.
Justice Department and the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office dropped
probes last month, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission closed its investigation, AIG and Cassano’s lawyers
said this month.  
 ‘Even More Prudent’  
 Cassano “was a person with extraordinary knowledge of the
inner workings of that company and the relationships with
others,” FCIC Chairman  Phil Angelides  said yesterday in a
conference call with reporters.  
 The former AIG Financial Products head said he decided in
late 2005 to cease creating swaps tied to subprime mortgages on
concern that loosening underwriting standards would lead to more
risk. The decision “looks even more prudent” now, he said.  
 Selling the swaps “was an act of incredible corporate
irresponsibility,”  Steve Kohlhagen , a former finance professor
at the University of California, Berkeley, and an ex-AIG
Financial Products executive, said in prepared remarks.  
 As part of a November 2008 revision to AIG’s rescue, banks
received payments in exchange for delivering collateralized debt
obligations linked to the $62.1 billion in swaps. The securities
were placed in a taxpayer-funded vehicle called  Maiden Lane 3 .  
 Few Losses  
 “As I look at the performance of some of these same CDOs
in Maiden Lane 3, I think there would have been few, if any,
realized losses on the CDS contracts had they not been unwound
in the bailout,” Cassano said in his testimony.  
 Cassano said an AIG committee that included Lewis approved
his transactions. Lewis said accountability for risks assumed by
AIG businesses resides “within the business units themselves.”  
 In November 2007, Cassano proposed a special incentive plan
to retain employees of the business after it “became apparent
that AIGFP’s accounting losses would be substantial,” he said.
Bonuses paid to the derivatives staff in March 2009 sparked a
backlash against AIG as President  Barack Obama  chastised the
firm and employees received death threats.  
 Cassano earned $280 million in eight years at Financial
Products, Representative  Henry Waxman  said during a 2008 hearing
into the bailout. After Cassano stepped down, he was kept on as
a consultant at $1 million a month, Waxman said.  
 AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  has said
Financial Products will be shuttered by year-end, with most
trades wound down and a profitable portfolio overseen by the
insurer or outside managers. The trades shrank to about $755
billion on March 31 from $941 billion at the end of 2009.  
 ‘Flying Blind’  
 The business was founded in 1987 by ex-employees of Drexel
Burnham Lambert, the securities firm that helped popularize
“junk-bond” investing before it collapsed.  
 Financial firms and regulators were uninformed about the
risk of derivatives, according to remarks today from Angelides,
who will report findings to Congress and Obama in December.  
 “When clarity mattered most, Wall Street and Washington
were flying blind,” Angelides said. “In the case of
derivatives, my fellow commissioners and I are seeing something
we’ve seen many times in our investigation: enormous risk,
reckless leverage, and early warning signs being ignored.”  
 FCIC Commissioner  Brooksley Born  had warned in 1998, as
chairman of the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , that the
unregulated over-the-counter derivatives market posed a danger
to the global financial system. She moved to address changes in
how swaps based on interest rates, commodities or currencies
were traded and was stopped by  Alan Greenspan ,  Arthur Levitt  and
 Robert Rubin , who all argued the market could regulate itself.  
 ‘Special Interests’  
 Born said last year that the banks that caused the crisis
were trying to stop the congressional overhaul of the market.  
 “Special interests in the financial-services industry are
beginning to advocate a return to business as usual,” Born said
in May 2009 as she accepted a Profile in Courage award from the
John F. Kennedy Library Foundation.  
 A conference committee of House and Senate lawmakers passed
a financial-services overhaul bill last week that would regulate
the  $615 trillion  private derivatives market for the first time.
The legislation included requirements for standardized interest-
rate, credit-default and other swaps to be traded on exchanges
or swap execution facilities before being guaranteed by
 clearinghouses , which are intended to lessen the effects of a
bank default by ensuring counterparty payment.  
 Housing Bubble  
 Kohlhagen said the government’s push to increase
homeownership, rather than the use of derivatives, should be
blamed for creating the freeze in credit markets. The contracts
delayed the collapse of the housing bubble by supporting demand
for CDOs, packages of mortgage loans, he told the commission.  
 “Credit-default swaps had absolutely no role whatsoever in
causing the financial crisis,” said Kohlhagen. “The bubble would
have been shorter-lived and the resulting financial crisis would
have been less severe” had swaps not been used to guarantee
CDOs, he said.  
 Losses from mortgage lending and on securities that
packaged those loans totaled more than $1 trillion since 2007,
the largest part of about $1.78 trillion in writedowns for
financial firms worldwide, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Losses from default swaps and other derivatives have
totaled $64.7 billion, or about 3.6 percent of overall
writedowns, according to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Joseph Cassano, former chief executive officer of financial products with American International Group Inc., speaks during a Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing on the role of derivatives in the financial crisis in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Ernest "Ernie" Patrikis, a partner at White & Case LLP and a former general counsel at American International Group Inc., talks about former AIG executive Joseph Cassano's scheduled testimony today before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in Washington.
     Patrikis speaks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Ronald Shelp, former executive in charge of government relations and international affairs at American International Group Inc., talks with Bloomberg Mark Crumpton and Julie Hyman about former AIG executive Joseph Cassano's testimony today before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in Washington.
     Cassano, whose derivative bets on subprime loans forced AIG into a U.S. bailout, defended the deals while the insurer’s chief risk officer said the firm was “wrong” on the trades. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
