-- CD&R, CVC, Lion Said to Mull Bids for Frozen-Food Maker Picard Surgeles
-- Anne-Sylvaine Chassany
-- 2010-06-30T11:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/cd-r-cvc-lion-said-to-mull-bids-for-frozen-food-maker-picard-surgeles.html

          
          
             Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC, which
in December raised a $5 billion fund for leveraged buyouts, is
among at least five private equity firms considering a bid for
BC Partners Ltd.’s French frozen-food retailer, Picard Surgeles,
five people with knowledge of the sale said.  
 CVC Capital Partners Ltd., Lion Capital LLP and Cinven
Ltd., all based in London, as well as Paris-based Eurazeo, may
also submit bids, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. BC Partners, Picard’s owner, is
seeking to get lenders to agree on a pre-packaged debt-financing
plan before setting a date for bids, they said.  
 BC Partners, based in London, is seeking to return money to
investors as it aims to start raising a new 6 billion-euro ($7.4
billion) buyout fund this year. Private equity firms are buying
and selling assets again after a two-year freeze because of the
credit crisis. They have led $57 billion in takeovers this year,
or 77 percent more than a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Picard sale may fetch as much as 1.5
billion euros, people said previously.  
 BC Partners purchased Picard from  Candover Partners Ltd. 
six years ago in a deal valuing the company at 1.3 billion
euros. Candover acquired it from French retailer  Carrefour SA  in
2001. Picard, based in Fontainebleau, has 813 shops in France
and makes frozen food under its own brand.  
 CD&R sold Brakes, a food supplier to caterers in the U.K.
and France, in 2007 after boosting the company’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization by 70 percent,
according to the firm’s website. Cinven competed for Picard in
2004, the people said.  
 Officials at Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Eurazeo, CVC,
Cinven, Lion Capital and BC Partners declined to comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anne-Sylvaine Chassany  in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        