-- Century-Old Scottish Funds Post Top Returns With Shift to Emerging Markets
-- Rodney Jefferson
-- 2010-06-30T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/century-old-scottish-funds-post-top-returns-with-shift-to-emerging-markets.html

          
          
             More than 100 years ago, Scots pooled
their resources to invest in U.S. railroads as economic power
moved away from Europe. Now their funds are outperforming rivals
by again backing the shift to emerging markets.  
 The Scottish American Investment Co. Plc, founded in 1873,
and  Murray International Trust , started in 1907, were the two
best-performing U.K. funds of their kind over the last year.
Both gained by betting on countries including Brazil and Taiwan.  
 “The notion of what is risky needs to change, partly
because we are going through this stupendously large change in
the nature of the global economy,”  Patrick Edwardson , manager
of the 380 million-pound ($568 million) Scottish American fund,
said in an interview at his Edinburgh office.  
 Money managers from the Georgian streets of the Scottish
capital have sought higher-yielding securities in developing
countries for centuries. While Texas & Pacific Railway and the
Mexican Tramway Co. have been replaced by  Petroleo Brasileiro SA 
and  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the strategy is
similar: buy them and run with them.  
 Scottish American advanced 50.8 percent in the 12 months to
June 23, placing it first among eight similar trusts investing
worldwide for dividend and capital growth, data compiled by
Morningstar Inc. show. Murray International was second, rising
45.6 percent, the Chicago-based research firm said. The  MSCI
World Index  rose 17 percent over the same period.  
 Standing Pat  
 “If you’re comfortable with what you’ve got then just
leave it the way it is,” said  Bruce Stout , manager of the 995
million-pound Murray International. “When you get a period like
this where there’s nothing cheap and nothing expensive, there’s
just nothing, then the best thing to do is just nothing.”  
 Edwardson, 39, works for  Baillie Gifford & Co. , which
oversees 62 billion pounds in total, and Stout, 51, is at
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc , which has about 171 billion
pounds. They have run their trusts since 2004 and less than half
a mile of Edinburgh streets separates their offices.  
 Both managers have cut their holdings of companies listed
in the U.S. and the U.K. in favor of emerging markets.  
 Edwardson’s biggest holdings include a Brazilian inflation-
linked bond and the  Baillie Gifford Greater China Fund .  Unilever
Indonesia Tbk PT  is Stout’s largest investment after he sold a
third of his stake in Petrobras earlier this year ahead of a
share sale by Brazil’s state-controlled oil company.  
 Stocks listed in Britain account for 27 percent of Scottish
American’s holdings, compared with more than half five years
ago. At Murray International, U.K. stocks make up 14 percent,
down from about 40 percent over the same period, Stout said.  
 Asset Allocation  
 Stout’s fund has 63 stocks and 14 bonds, he said. The
fixed-income holdings include company bonds such as a Rio Tinto
Plc 6.5 percent security maturing in July 2018. They were bought
mainly in the fourth quarter of 2008.  
 “The power that we’ve seen shifting from the northern
hemisphere to the southern hemisphere just continues to gather
momentum with every crisis and every mistake we make in the U.K.
and the U.S.,” Stout said at his office. “It just gets
stronger and stronger from an economic point of view.”  
 The Brazilian  economy  expanded 9 percent in the first
quarter from a year before, the fastest growth since 1995.
China’s  gross domestic product  rose 11.9 percent, while  India 
grew 8.6 percent. By comparison, the  British economy  shrank an
annual 0.2 percent, while the  euro region  grew 0.6 percent.  
 The levels of borrowing also are lower in places such as
Brazil just as investors fret about the ability of Greece and
Spain to repay bonds. Brazil has a debt-to-GDP ratio of 41
Percent, compared with Greece’s 2010 forecast of 133 percent.  
 ‘Global Problem’  
 “The sovereign debt problem is not a Greek problem, it’s a
global problem,” Stout said. “It begins in Greece, and then
goes through Italy and Portugal and Spain and Ireland, and the
U.K. is as bad, if not worse than all of these, and then the big
one at the end of the chain is the U.S.”  
 Investment trusts were designed originally for a range of
people, and Murray International lists a spinster, a bleacher
and a jute spinner among its first investors. About 80 percent
of Scottish American’s shareholders are individuals.  
 Over five years, Murray International more than doubled,
while Scottish American gained 35 percent, the Morningstar data
showed. The MSCI World Index is down 5.3 percent.  
 Stout beat Edwardson in that period because he had sold all
his bank holdings, ditching his last one,  HSBC Holdings Plc ,
more than five years ago.  
 Bank Stocks  
 As stock markets started sinking two years ago, Edwardson’s
top 10 holdings included Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
HBOS Plc, the two Edinburgh-based lenders that had to be bailed
out to avert collapse.  RBS  dropped 87 percent in 2008, while
Scottish American’s assets fell 37 percent.  
 “The single best decision over the last few years was to
stick with what we owned at the end of 2008,” said Edwardson,
whose biggest holding since then has been the Athena Debt
Opportunities Fund. “The single worst decision was owning what
we did at the start of 2008.”  
 The holding in Athena, which invests in securitizations of
debt, equates to about 18 million pounds, Edwardson said. About
88 percent of Scottish American’s assets are in stocks, with
investments in 80 to 100 companies at any one time.  
 The downfall of RBS and the 45 percent  decline  in BP Plc’s
share price this year as the oil company struggles to stem the
flow of oil from a broken pipeline in the Gulf of Mexico show
that investments deemed as safer than emerging markets can turn
out not to be, said Edwardson, who owned BP as of Dec. 31, 2009.  
 “The safer, the better, the more reliable investments most
likely will be completely different from what proved safe and
reliable over the last 30 or 40 years,” he said. “We’ve had
several instances in the past year of very large, respectable
companies proving to be very high-risk investments.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodney Jefferson  in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        