-- Cenveo Seeks Court Help in $140 Million Bid for Bankrupt National Envelope
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-06-30T20:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/cenveo-seeks-court-help-in-140-million-bid-for-bankrupt-national-envelope.html

          
          
             Cenveo Corp., a specialty printing
and envelope maker, is trying to buy competitor National
Envelope Corp. out of bankruptcy for $140 million, according to
court papers filed today.  
 Cenveo asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Peter Walsh  in
Wilmington, Delaware, to force NEC to release a copy of an
alleged agreement with private equity investors that prevents
NEC officials from seeking competing offers. NEC said in court
documents that it signed a letter of intent on June 4 to sell
itself to the private equity firm  Gores Group LLC .  
 Cenveo sought Walsh’s help in “opening up the sale process
and stalking horse bidding to other potential investors to
maximize recoveries for creditors.”  
 NEC, based in Uniondale, New York, listed assets and debt
of as much as $500 million each when it filed for bankruptcy
June 10 along with 26 affiliates.  
 Josef S. Athanas , NEC’s attorney, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment today.  
 Under terms of a loan to fund NEC’s operations during
bankruptcy, the company has until July 16 to win court approval
for an auction. The company has proposed holding an auction on
Aug. 23.  
 A group of lenders, including LBC Credit Partners LP, LBC
Credit Partners Parallel LP, Island Funding LLC and Wayzata
Recovery Fund LLC, objected to that loan this month, claiming it
“compels a rushed sale.”  
 ‘No-Shop’ Agreement  
 NEC signed a “no-shop” agreement with Gores that
prohibits discussions with other potential buyers, said  Kenneth A. Lefkowitz , Cenveo’s attorney.  
 Before NEC filed bankruptcy, Cenveo tried unsuccessfully to
buy the company for $140 million, Cenveo said in court papers.
After the bankruptcy filing, Cenveo contacted NEC, which refused
to release basic financial information needed to make a final
offer, Lefkowitz said in an interview. That will put Cenveo at a
disadvantage in the proposed auction, he said.  
 “It is a hidden process,” Lefkowitz said, referring to
the potential sale.  
 Frank Stefanik, a Gores spokesman, declined to comment.  
 “I was surprised Cenveo was rebuffed by NEC before the
bankruptcy filing” because the sale “could have saved it”
from bankruptcy, said  Charles Strauzer , senior managing director
at CJS Securities Inc., in a phone interview today. Cenveo’s
offer “makes a lot of strategic sense,” and considering NEC is
a distressed company the offer is fair, Strauzer said.  
 Parent’s Losses  
 Cenveo’s parent, publically traded Cenveo Inc., lost
$329 million in 2008-2009 on sales of $3.8 billion, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Strauzer  rates  Cenveo “market outperform” and has a target
price of $14 over the next 18 months.  Cenveo  fell 7 cents, or
1.3 percent, to $5.48 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading at 4:15 p.m.  
 NEC and Cenveo have manufacturing operations in 10 common
cities, “which in our opinion makes this transaction quite
compelling,” Strauzer wrote in a note. He said NEC had an
operating margin of 4 percent last year while Cenveo’s margin
was more than double that.  
 “We see no reason why a combination wouldn’t yield margins
closer to 15 percent over time,” Strauzer wrote.  
 A combination of NEC and Cenveo could yield $60 million in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
after synergies for the first twelve months.  
 Cenveo and NEC together have about 40 percent of the
$3.7 billion North American envelope  market , according to court
records that NEC filed at the beginning of its bankruptcy.  
 Recession, E-Mail  
 NEC said it filed bankruptcy after the recession and the
increased use of e-mail cut sales, leading to more than three
years of losses.  
 NEC  is owned by the family of  William Ungar , a Holocaust
survivor from Poland who founded the company in 1952, court
papers show. The company expanded in 1991 with the acquisition
of Aristocrat Envelope and later bought rivals including
Williamhouse and Atlantic Envelope.  
 The company said in court documents it has 14 factories in
the U.S. and 3,390 employees.  
 The lead case is In re NEC Holdings Corp., 10-11890, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        