-- Chalco Ends Accord on Development of a $2.6 Billion Project in Queensland
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-06-30T13:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/chalco-ends-accord-on-development-of-a-2-6-billion-project-in-queensland.html

          
          
             Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd ., the
nation’s biggest producer of the metal, ended a 2007 accord with
Australia’s Queensland state to develop a A$3 billion ($2.6
billion) bauxite project after market conditions deteriorated.  
 “Both parties recognize that global conditions in the
aluminum industry have deteriorated significantly since the
original development agreement was signed,” Stirling
Hinchliffe, the state’s minister for infrastructure and
planning, said in an e-mailed statement today. A spokesman for
Chalco confirmed the accord had been scrapped.  
 The announcement comes three weeks after Chalco, as the
company is known, said it was “pushing ahead” with plans to
develop the Aurukun deposit. The Australian Financial Review
then reported that Chalco may seek to remove a requirement to
build a refinery at the mine because of the proposed 40 percent
tax on resource profits in Australia from 2012. Queensland
Premier  Anna Bligh  said the refinery requirement would stand.  
 “The state government and Chalco will continue to discuss
new development and investment options for Chalco with respect
to the Aurukun resource in light of ongoing market conditions
and the strategic importance of the Aurukun bauxite deposits,”
Hinchliffe said in the statement.  
 The price of aluminum for delivery in three months on the
London Metal Exchange averaged $2,757 a metric ton during March
2007, when the accord was signed. It had fallen 30 percent to
$1,933 a ton by 1:51 p.m. in London today.  
 “The business environment and alumina market have had a
lot of changes since we conducted a feasibility study on the
Aurukun project,” Zhao Zhengang, general manager of overseas
investment at Chalco, said today by phone. “From the economic
view, our old plan doesn’t look feasible,” even without the
issue of the resource tax, he said.  
 Chalco was due to submit a feasibility study for the
project by June 30 after requesting a six month extension late
last year, citing the global financial crisis, according to a
statement on the Queensland government’s website.  
 “We are continuing our negotiations with the state
government on a variety of feasible business modes of the
project,” Zhao said.  
 -- Xiao Yu  in Beijing,  Helen Yuan  in Shanghai and  Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney. Editors:  Tony Barrett ,  Claudia Carpenter   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        