-- Chicago Allows Second Wal-Mart as Retailer Pushes Urban Growth
-- Leslie Patton
-- 2010-06-30T20:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/chicago-city-council-allows-second-wal-mart-as-retailer-seeks-urban-growth.html

          
          
             Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  won unanimous
approval to build a second store in Chicago, four years after
the world’s  largest retailer  opened in the city.  
 The decision by the 50-member city council follows months
of negotiation and confrontation between the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company and organized labor about wages at the
store. Union leaders vowed to track what the retailer pays
workers as it seeks to open several dozen locations across the
city in a test of its ability to expand into urban areas.  
 “Wal-Mart should just come in and be a good player,” said
Jorge Ramirez, secretary-treasurer of the Chicago Federation of
Labor. “But they come to the table with dirty hands.”  
 Several aldermen who voted in favor bemoaned the loss of
U.S. manufacturing jobs and small retail businesses that they
said Wal-Mart’s growth represents. They also criticized the
amount employees expect to make.  
 “I’m holding my nose because we’re accepting a very low
standard,” said Alderman Sharon Denise Dixon. “It stinks.”  
 Labor and political leaders last week said Wal-Mart
promised to pay $8.75 an hour with raises of at least 40 cents
within a year. The Illinois minimum wage will be $8.25 beginning
tomorrow.  
 A Wal-Mart spokesman, Steven Restivo, however, wouldn’t
confirm the pay. The wages “are as good, if not better than,
the businesses we compete with,” Restivo said in a telephone
interview last week.  
 Daley Leads Support  
 Mayor  Richard M. Daley  has led support for Wal-Mart’s
efforts as a way to bring jobs to the city, which faces an
unemployment rate of 10.5 percent, more than the 9.7 percent
national average, according to government statistics.  
 “Today’s vote sets the stage for a long-term relationship
with Wal-Mart,” Daley said at a news conference after the vote.
“This is all about jobs.”  
 Wal-Mart said it is exploring more Chicago locations.  
 “We have already started to identify additional
opportunities across the City that will help more Chicagoans
save money and live better,”  Hank Mullany , executive vice
president and president of Wal-Mart’s northern U.S. division,
said in a statement following the vote.  
 South Side Supercenter  
 The new Wal-Mart, a supercenter on the city’s far south
side, would sell groceries along with general merchandise. It
would be the first stage of a plan that envisions a recreation
center, hotel, hundreds of single-family homes and townhouses
and a 10-acre park.  
 Development of the 180-acre site hinges on Wal-Mart’s
performance.  
 “The whole thing kind of starts with that big-box section
first,” David Doig, head of Chicago Neighborhood Initiatives,
the project developer, said in a telephone interview. “The Wal-
Mart really drives the traffic.”  
 U.S. Bancorp  created  Chicago Neighborhood Initiatives in
March to carry on the community development efforts of Park
National Bank, which U.S. Bancorp acquired in October, according
to the Minneapolis-based bank.  
 With the Wal-Mart approved, Doig said he thinks a deal can
be reached with a home-improvement store in four to six months.  
 “We don’t have any signed deals with them yet,” said
Doig, a former superintendent of the Chicago Park District.  
 First Chicago Store  
 Wal-Mart opened its first Chicago store  in 2006  on the
city’s west side. New businesses that have opened nearby since
then include a CVS Caremark Corp. pharmacy, Menard Inc. home
improvement store and a Bank of America Corp. branch, said
Alderman Emma Mitts, whose ward includes the Wal-Mart.  
 The store has given jobs to “laid-off workers in various
industries and others seeking employment during tough times,”
Mitts said in a statement.  
 While the supercenter in the south side neighborhood of
Pullman may succeed in attracting other retailers, some
Chicagoans remain skeptical.  
 “Wal-Mart’s not really known for spearheading
developments,” said Jeffrey Helgeson, a six-year resident of
Pullman and labor relations lecturer at the University of
Illinois at Chicago. “There is a potential for a real shot in
the arm for this area, but I’m not sure it’s possible.”  
 The Chicago stores are part of a bigger strategy that Wal-
Mart’s Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  has outlined during the
past year to spur growth in the U.S., where sales at stores open
at least a year have decreased for four quarters in a row.  
 The retailer wants to open several dozen Chicago stores
that will “eradicate the food deserts” of neighborhoods without
grocery stores while creating 12,000 jobs, Mullany said at a
June 21 news conference.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        