-- Chile's Industrial Output Climbs for First Time Since February Earthquake
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-06-30T15:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/chile-s-may-jobless-rate-rose-to-8-8-as-industrial-output-misses-forecast.html

          
          
             Chilean industrial output increased
in May for the first time since a Feb. 27 earthquake closed
factories and ports, supporting bets that the central bank will
continue to raise interest rates in July.  
 Industrial output climbed 4.2 percent from a year earlier,
the first rise since February, the National Statistics Institute
said today in Santiago. May’s increase trailed the 4.7 percent
median forecast of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Retail sales jumped 19.1 percent from a year earlier,
supermarket sales rose 7.2 percent and industrial sales
increased by 0.5 percent, the institute said. The data show
productive capacity is returning to levels seen before the quake
and reconstruction is boosting household consumption,  Alfredo Coutino , director of Latin America for Moody’s Analytics, said
in a research note today.  
 “The economy is going back to positive territory in the
second quarter, when GDP is reaching its potential speed,”
Coutino said in the note e-mailed to clients.  
 The Chilean peso fell 0.4 percent to 547.30 per U.S. dollar
as of 11:27 a.m. New York time. The peso has declined 7.27
percent this year, the biggest fall among six Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Chile’s economy grew 4.6 percent in April from a year
earlier, the quickest annual growth since September 2008.  
 Earthquake Damage  
 The February earthquake, the world’s fifth-largest since
1900, and a subsequent tsunami killed more than 500 people,
toppled bridges and closed factories and ports in an area of the
country that provides 17 percent of its gross domestic product.  
 Chile’s unemployment rate rose to 8.8 percent in the three
months through May as the agriculture and manufacturing sectors
shed jobs, the institute said today in a separate report.  
 The economy added 451,100 jobs in May from a year ago, the
institute said. May’s employment levels show that Chileans
entered the employment market faster than the economy could
produce new jobs, said  Alejandro Puente , an economist with BBVA
bank.  
 “The unemployment rate is pretty moderate and has
performed better than we previously thought it would when we
estimated it would reach double digits after the earthquake,”
he said in an interview from Santiago.  
 Almost 29,000 people found work in the education sector in
the three months through May and 15,000 were hired to work in
the transport, storage and communications industries, the
institute said. The agriculture sector shed 38,000 jobs in the
three months through May while 7,800 people lost jobs in
manufacturing.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        