-- China May Delay Electricity Price Increase to Later This Year, Ulrich Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-30T04:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/china-may-delay-electricity-price-increase-to-later-this-year-ulrich-says.html

          
          
             China’s order to halt domestic coal
price increases signals the government may hold off on raising
electricity rates until later this year when inflation
expectations become clearer, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said today.  
 Further intervention in prices isn’t expected because
inflation may moderate starting in July or August,  Jing Ulrich ,
chairwoman for China equities and commodities, said in an e-
mailed note.  
 Consumer prices in China rose at the quickest pace in 19
months in May, prompting the government to find ways to fight
inflation. The government ordered coal companies to refrain from
initiating spot price increases and forbade them from amending
prices agreed on in their annual supply contracts with power
producers, according to a statement on June 25.  
 “This effort to contain coal prices provides a near-term
alternative to hiking electricity prices at a time when policy
makers do not want to see inflationary pressures increase,”
Ulrich said. “The government may take further action on
electricity pricing later this year, when there is more clarity
on the full-year CPI growth.”  
 More than 40 percent of power producers operated at a loss
between January and May, she said. The benchmark contract price
signed between power producers and China Shenhua Energy Co.,
China’s biggest coal supplier, for 5,500 kilocalories coal is
about 570 yuan ($84) per metric ton, according to the note. Spot
prices are at about 755 yuan per ton.  
 Future Margins  
 The move has affected sentiment on future margins of
Chinese coal companies, even though they “continue to make good
profits at current price levels,” Ulrich said.  
 Chinese coal stocks have fallen since the government
announcement June 25. Shares in  China Shenhua  have dropped 8.9
percent in Hong Kong trading by 10:29 a.m. local time compared
with the close on June 25.  China Coal Energy Co.  slipped 13.5
percent in the period.  
 Under a current pricing system, the government should
increase power tariffs to absorb 70 percent of the gains in
costs to electricity generators when the average spot coal price
rises by more than 5 percent over a six-month period, she said.  
 China’s balance of coal supply and demand should improve in
the second half of the year as electricity consumption growth
slows and a major inland railway used for transporting coal
restores operations after maintenance, Ulrich said in the note.  
 Production of energy-intensive materials including aluminum
and steel are showing “early signs of slowing,” caused by
government measures to limit electricity discounts and the
removal of some steel export subsidies, she said.  
 Coal Reliance  
 Lesser reliance on coal-fired power plants during the
summer rainy season also lowered demand for the fuel, Ulrich
said. Hydropower accounted for 16.4 percent of total electricity
production in May compared with 12.5 percent in April, she said.  
 On the supply side, maintenance of the  Daqin railway  was
completed in May, leading to higher coal inventories at power
plants before the peak summer demand season, she said.
Stockpiles at major power plants rose to 18 days of use as of
June 20 compared with 15 days at end-March, according to Ulrich.  
 The Daqin railway connects the northern province of Shanxi,
one of two China’s biggest coal-producing region, to Qinhuangdao,
the nation’s largest port for the fuel.  
 -- Chua Baizhen . Editors:  Ang Bee Lin ,  John Viljoen .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        