-- China's Communist Party Pledges More Openness Amid Increasing Labor Unrest
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-30T08:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/china-s-communist-party-pledges-more-openness-amid-increasing-labor-unrest.html

          
          
             China’s  Communist Party  handed out
phone numbers and resumes to foreign media in an unprecedented
gesture of openness for an organization that has ruled from
behind a walled compound since  Mao Zedong  took power in 1949.  
 Eleven arms of the party sent spokespeople to a briefing in
Beijing today, including the Organization Department, which
appoints the heads of China’s biggest state-owned companies.  
 “The party wants to increase the openness of its work,”
said  Wang Chen , director of the international communication
office. Doing so is important to “improve the party’s governing
capacity,” he said.  
 Increasing transparency within a party that boasts 78
million members may reflect efforts to address increasing unrest
among workers, the backbone of its legitimacy. Strikes over pay
 last month  that affected  Honda  Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp.
exposed growing dissatisfaction that China’s economic boom has
left many people behind.  
 The strikes are a “kind of wake-up call, and they have
finally realized -- I hope -- that they simply cannot stop the
flood no matter how tall and strong their dam is,” said  Huang Jing , a visiting professor at the National University of
Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy. “They have
done all this not necessarily because they want to, but they
have to embark on this road given the rapidly changing situation
in China.”  
 ‘Confucius’ Centers  
 Today’s briefing is also part of a larger push by China to
burnish its international image. The country is expanding the
reach of the state-run media, increasing programming in English
and other foreign languages and setting up a network of
“Confucius” centers around the world, including the U.S., to
teach the Chinese language and introduce outsiders to the
nation’s culture.  
 Deng Shengming, the secretary general of the Organization
Department, acknowledged that expediency, not ideology,
persuaded some people to join the party in an attempt to further
their careers. Some applicants “may not have very correct
motives,” he said, adding that the party maintained a “very
strict procedure” for selecting members.  
 Corruption, another bugbear afflicting the party, was also
addressed. The Central Commission for Discipline Inspection is
undertaking an investigation of the construction industry, said
Wu Yuliang, its secretary general. Of 340,000 building projects
probed since last July, 140,000 were found to have graft
“problems,” and of those, 60,000 had been “dealt with,” he
said without elaborating.  
 The Communist Party celebrates its 90th anniversary next
year. China’s top leaders, including President  Hu Jintao , live
behind the oxblood-colored walls of the Zhongnanhai leadership
compound in central Beijing. The party was founded in 1921 and
came to power 28 years later when Mao led the communists to
victory in a civil war.  
 -- Michael Forsythe ,  Yidi Zhao . Editors:  Bill Austin ,  John Brinsley   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7575 or
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Deng Shengming, secretary general and director of the General Office of the Orgainzation Department of the Communist Party of China's Central Committee, attends a news conference in Beijing on June 30, 2010. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
