-- Wen Pledges China Policy Stability Amid `Extremely Complicated' Outlook
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-30T10:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/china-s-wen-pledges-policy-stability-amid-extremely-complicated-outlook.html

          
          
             China’s government said the world’s
third-biggest economy is heading in the right direction and
business people and economists expect “relatively fast” growth
to continue.  
 Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the nation will “further cement
and develop the positive economic trend,” in a statement posted
on the government’s  website  today. He pledged both continuity
and flexibility in policies amid an “extremely complicated”
domestic and global outlook.  
 Shares extended a global rout today after an unexpected
drop in U.S. consumer confidence fueled concern that the
recovery in the world economy is faltering. In China, government
efforts to cool the property market and the threat to exports
posed by Europe’s sovereign debt crisis have contributed to a 27
percent slump in the Shanghai Composite Index.  
 “Today’s statement may help reassure some investors who
are worried about China’s slowdown,” said  Lu Zhengwei , a
Shanghai-based economist at Industrial Bank Co. “Still, policy
makers may be reluctant to quickly withdraw stimulus policies
given the uncertainties from the European debt crisis and recent
policies that aim to cool property and some industrial
sectors.”  
 Wen’s Meetings  
 The statement was issued after two days of meetings Wen
held with business people and economists, the government said.
The structure of the economy is improving, with market-driven
consumption, investment and exports together driving growth, the
experts were cited as saying.  
 China needs to accelerate its economic restructuring and
deepen financial reforms, the People’s Bank of China said
separately today. The economy will maintain relatively steady
growth this year although it faces a “complicated situation”
with challenges at home and abroad, the central bank said in a
report on its website today.  
 Attendees in the Wen meeting said the economy is
maintaining a “positive upturn” and full-year growth would be
“relatively fast,” according to the report. The economy is
heading in the “expected direction” set by officials’ macro-
economic controls, Wen said.  
 China’s economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier. UBS AG forecasts a gradual deceleration to
8.5 percent in the fourth quarter as investment in
infrastructure and property slows.  
 Manufacturing Slows  
 China’s logistics federation and statistics bureau may
report tomorrow that the nation’s official  manufacturing index 
weakened for the second month in June, according to the median
estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Chinese  stocks 
fell to the lowest in 14 months today, with the Shanghai
benchmark sliding 1.2 percent as of 2:23 p.m. local time.  
 Wen said the government will balance the goals of
sustaining growth, restructuring the economy and managing
inflation expectations.  
 China needs to “look at the present and plan for the
future and lay the foundation for steady and relatively fast
growth next year and over a longer period of time,” Wen said.
The nation should “take the current opportunity” to more
quickly adjust its growth model, he added.  
 The central bank indicated on June 19 that it is ending the
yuan’s peg to the dollar and the finance ministry announced this
month that it will scrap export rebates on some steel and metal
products to help the government meet targets for cutting energy
use and pollution in industrial production.  
 -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Jay Wang  in Singapore.
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Chris Anstey   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        