-- Chinese Provinces to Raise Minimum Wages to Head Off Growing Labor Unrest
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-01T04:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/chinese-provinces-to-raise-minimum-wages-to-head-off-growing-labor-unrest.html

          
          
             At least nine Chinese provinces and
cities raised minimum wages by as much as a third today after 
Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for measures to head off growing 
worker unrest in the world’s third-largest economy.  
 Beijing  increased the lowest monthly salary employers
must pay in the Chinese capital to 960 yuan ($142) from 800 
yuan, according to the city government’s website. Central 
China’s  Henan , the nation’s most populous province with almost 
100 million residents, raised its minimum wage by 33 percent
to 600 yuan, the local government said on its website.  
 Wen highlighted the government’s concerns that labor
disputes over wages may spur social unrest when he called on
companies last week to create “harmonious employment
relations” by gradually raising incomes and ordered officials
to handle “new issues” with skill. Strikes staged by workers
demanding pay increases this year in China have halted
production at  Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Honda Motor Co.  plants.  
 “This is a step in the right direction,”  Stephen Roach ,
Morgan Stanley’s Asia chairman, said in Beijing. “China has a
very low personal income share of GDP, and wages, surprisingly
low wages, and limited employment growth are part of the
problem.”  
 Sustaining Growth  
 More than 20 provinces and municipalities plan to increase
minimum wages this year,  Yin Chengji , spokesman for the Ministry
of Human Resources and Social Security, told a  press conference 
in April.  Shanghai , the country’s financial hub, ordered a rise
of 17 percent to 1,120 yuan per month in April and  Guangdong ,
China’s biggest export base, boosted five local minimum wages in
the province by an average 21 percent, with the highest pay
increasing to 1,030 yuan.  
 Rising wages may help sustain domestic demand as slower
global growth damps the rebound in exports and the government
reins in loans and real-estate investment to prevent asset
bubbles. China’s manufacturing expanded at a slower pace in June,
two Purchasing Managers Index reports showed today, as new
orders declined and inventories grew.  
 “The good news is that the labor market continues to
improve despite slowing output growth,”  Qu Hongbin , a Hong
Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc said. “This, combined
with wage increases in some factories should offer solid support
to private consumption in the coming quarters.”  
 Consumption Driver  
 Higher wages and salaries among China’s 468 million
industrial and services workers should help China reduce its
reliance on exports and investment as engines of growth and
boost the share of consumption in the economy, economists say.
 China’s central bank  said yesterday economic restructuring needs
to be accelerated.  
 Raising minimum wages “is part of the rebalancing,”
Morgan Stanley’s Roach said. China has no official data
specifying the number of workers who are paid the minimum wage.  
 The share of personal income in China’s gross domestic
product has fallen to 39.7 percent from 53 percent in 1999,
according to economists at Beijing-based investment bank China
International Capital Corp. That compares with 57 percent in the
U.S. and 51 percent in Japan,  Ha Jiming  and  Xing Ziqiang  wrote
in a June 14 report. Most other countries have kept the ratio
stable over the past decade, they said.  
 The government in 2009 suspended its requirement that the
lowest salaries be increased at least once every two years to
help companies weather the impact of the global financial crisis,
which cut China’s economic growth rate to the slowest in almost
a decade in the first quarter of 2009.  
 Economic Recovery  
 A rebound in  expansion  and accelerating inflation prompted
the government to order provinces and cities to raise payments
for the lowest-paid workers, Yin told the April briefing.  
 “The marginal propensity to spend among poorer people is
very high,”  Shen Jianguang , Greater China chief economist at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., said in a telephone interview. Pay
rises “might not give them enough to buy an iPod or a car, but
it still gives them a marginal improvement and enough to save
for a television or air conditioner.”  
 Taipei-based Foxconn Technology Group, suffering a spate of
suicides at its Longhua factory in Shenzhen, said last month
it’ll double wages in the southern Chinese city to 2,000 yuan a
month from October. Honda and Toyota both raised salaries to end
the strikes at their plants in southern China.  
 Those pay increases and higher minimum wages may not be
enough to prevent further strikes as rising living costs erode
gains, said  Liu Kaiming , Shenzhen-based director of the
 Institute of Contemporary Observation , a non-government
organization that studies labor issues.  
 Living Costs  
 “The intentions are good but they won’t help to solve
labor unrest,” Liu said in a telephone interview. “The
percentage increases in pay appear high but wages are still low
and with rising inflation and higher living costs, these
increases won’t help workers much.”  
 Minimum wages in the more affluent eastern areas of the
country are more than double those of poorer inland provinces,
government data shows. In Henan, the lowest legal salary is 600
yuan a month compared with 1,100 yuan in Shenzhen, where Foxconn
employs the largest portion of its 800,000 workers in China.  
 The wage gap is encouraging businesses to move production
to central and western regions. Foxconn is planning to build a
factory that will eventually employ 300,000 workers in Henan,
according to a report on a local government website. Hewlett-
Packard Co., Foxconn and Taiwan-based companies Quanta Computer
Inc. and Inventec Co. will build the world’s largest laptop
production center in western China’s Chongqing, the city’s
Communist Party chief  Bo Xilai  said yesterday.  
 -- Ying Diao  in Beijing. Editors:  Nerys Avery ,  John Liu   
 To contract Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Diao Ying in Beijing at +86-6649-7565 or  Ydiao3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wen Jiabao, China's premier, in Tokyo. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Shaun Rein, managing director of China Market Research Group, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the threat of inflation in China and its potential impact on cost of living expenses.
     At least nine Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum wages by as much as a third today after Premier Wen Jiabao called for measures to head off growing worker unrest in the world’s third-largest economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- At least nine Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum wages by as much as a third today after Premier Wen Jiabao called for measures to head off growing worker unrest in the world’s third-largest economy. Bloomberg's Stephen Engle reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
