-- China's Stocks Decline to 14-Month Low on Concern About Economic Slowdown
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-30T07:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/china-s-stock-index-futures-drop-on-global-equities-rout-economic-outlook.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  fell, sending the
benchmark index to the lowest in more than 14 months, on concern
economists may reduce their growth forecasts for the nation
because of policy tightening measures and the Europe debt crisis.  
 Jiangxi Copper Co.  and Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co. led
declines among raw-material producers after metal prices
retreated.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. , the second-largest
developer by market value, dropped 3.8 percent.  China Cosco
Holdings Co. , the world’s biggest operator of dry-bulk ships,
slid 1 percent on concern shrinking global trade will reduce
demand for marine transport.  
 “The market’s expectations for economic and earnings
growth are growing more pessimistic and these worries will
probably become true in the next few months with data coming
out,” said  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “The Shanghai index
will fall below 2,300 in this round of corrections.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slid 28.68, or 1.2 percent, to close at
2,398.37, the lowest since April 9, 2009. The  CSI 300 Index  fell
1.1 percent to 2,563.07.  
 The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 23 percent this quarter,
capping the  biggest loss  since the three months to March 2008,
as policy makers tightened rules for the property market and
concern grew that Europe’s austerity measures will hurt demand
in China’s largest export destination. The equity index is the
world’s third-worst performer this year, down 27 percent.  
 Conference Board  
 China’s stocks tumbled the most in six weeks yesterday
after the Conference Board yesterday revised down its April
leading economic index due to a “calculation error.” Global
equities slumped after China’s rout and a gauge of U.S. consumer
confidence dropped more than estimates. President Barack Obama
said the U.S. economy is strengthening even as it faces
“headwinds” from the European debt crisis.  
 A third of China economists may reduce their “overly
bullish” growth forecasts for 2010 and 2011 in coming weeks
because of property tightening measures,  Ting Lu , a Hong Kong-
based economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch, wrote in a
note to clients.  
 Growth will slow to 9.6 percent in the third quarter and 9
percent in the following three months, from 10.5 percent in the
second quarter, according to 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first quarter, the
fastest pace in almost three years.  
 “We’re beginning to see recession signals in China,”  Jim Walker , managing director at Asianomics Ltd., said on Bloomberg
Television from Singapore.  
 Manufacturing Outlook  
 The Federation of Logistics and Purchasing tomorrow may say
China’s manufacturing expanded at a slower pace in June. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index probably fell to 53.2 from 53.8 in
May, according to a survey by Bloomberg News. The figure is due
9 a.m. tomorrow.  
 Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, fell
5.7 percent to 24.06 yuan. Zhuzhou Smelter, China’s biggest
producer of refined zinc, lost 2.7 percent to 9.38 yuan.
 Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest maker of the
lightweight metal and also called Chalco, slid 3 percent to 9.17
yuan. The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
tumbled 2.8 percent, the most since Aug. 14.  
 China Cosco dropped 1 percent to 8.73 yuan. China Shipping
Development Co., a unit of China’s second-biggest sea-cargo
group, lost 1.1 percent to 8.20 yuan. The  Baltic Dry Index , a
measure of commodity-shipping costs, 1.4 percent to 2,447 points
yesterday, according to the Baltic Exchange in London, for a
23rd consecutive decline.  
 Further Declines  
 “Stocks will decline further,” said  Li Jun , a strategist
at Central China Securities Holdings Co. in Shanghai. “We’ll
soon see slowing economic data in July and there’s no sign of a
reversal in the tightening policies.”  
 Poly Real Estate, the second-largest developer by market
value, fell 3.8 percent to 10.23 yuan.  Shenzhen Overseas Chinese
Town Holdings Co. , a manager of theme parks in China, tumbled
9.8 percent to 11 yuan after the company said an accident at a
unit’s amusement ride killed six people.  
 Chinese stocks are still the most “overvalued” in Asia
excluding Japan, even after a drop in the market’s premium to
the region, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 The Shanghai Composite’s premium to the rest of Asia has
slipped to 34 percent from 84 percent on Dec. 31, based on a
model comparing price to book value against return on equity,
Credit Suisse analysts  Sakthi Siva  and  Kin Nang Chik  wrote.  
 Buy Signals  
 China looks like a buy by almost any measure, according to
top-ranked analysts of the Asian nation’s shares.  
 Morgan Stanley, BNP Paribas SA and Nomura Holdings Inc. say
stocks will rally as China’s June 19 decision to end the yuan’s
two-year peg to the dollar helps curb inflation and asset
bubbles. The Shanghai index rose 62 percent in 12 months after
China last allowed a more flexible exchange rate in July 2005.  
 The Shanghai Composite’s plunge this year sent its price-
earnings ratio to 18, the lowest level versus the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index in a decade. The largest owners of yuan-
denominated stocks have turned net buyers for the first time
since equities bottomed in 2008, while international investors
are paying the biggest premium in 21 months to bet on a rally in
funds that hold China’s yuan-denominated or A shares, data
compiled by Macquarie Group Ltd. and Bloomberg show.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Founder Technology Group Corp.  (600601 CH), a manufacturer
of computer products, gained 3.3 percent to 4.77 yuan. Existing
shareholders who hold the company’s stock until July 1 will be
able to buy three shares for every 10 held at 2.20 yuan each in
a rights offer, the company said.  
 Sany Heavy Industry Co.  (600031 CH), China’s biggest maker
of machinery for handling concrete, added 2 percent to 18.27
yuan, the most in a week. The company said its parent will
increase its holdings in the listed unit in the next six months
if prices don’t exceed 20 yuan apiece.  
 Yunnan Baiyao Group Co.  (000538 CH), a manufacturer of
traditional Chinese medicines, jumped 5.4 percent to 64.50 yuan,
the biggest gain since April 23, after saying first-half profit
may rise as much as 70 percent from a year earlier.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        