-- Chloride, Wilson Are Among British Manufacturers Targeted in Bidding War
-- Howard Mustoe
-- 2010-06-30T09:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/chloride-wilson-are-among-british-manufacturers-targeted-in-bidding-war.html

          
          
             Chloride Group Plc  and  Scott Wilson
Group Plc  drew competing takeover bids in the same week.
Analysts say the timing is no coincidence, as more British
manufacturers become targets.  
 Emerson Electric Co.  and  ABB Ltd.  are vying to buy backup
power equipment-maker Chloride. Emerson pulled ahead yesterday
with a $1.5 billion offer, after Zurich-based ABB trumped
Emerson’s first approach. Scott Wilson Group Plc, a U.K.
engineering adviser, sparked a contest between URS Corp. and
CH2M Hill Cos., which bid 189 million-pound ($285.5 million).  
 “A number of U.K. companies are a nicely ready-packaged
mouth-watering morsel,” said  Michael Blogg , a London-based
analyst at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. “Someone looking to build
a position in a certain industry looks for a focused business,
they don’t look for something that’s got lots of disparate
operations, many of which they don’t want.”  
 Manufacturers  are emerging from the financial crisis with
money available for acquisitions and growing confidence in
markets, said Mark Adams, a corporate finance partner at
Deloitte. That’s coinciding with a recovering U.K. economy and
pledges from the government to lower corporate taxes, attracting
foreign bidders to the market.  
 Small- to medium-sized manufacturers and service providers
for niche markets are in demand among global engineering
companies with an eye on expansion, said Blogg, who has a
“neutral” rating on Chloride. Blogg said merger-and-
acquisition cycles typically follow economic patterns, and the
recent recovery has released “pent-up activity.”  
 ‘Superior Proposal’  
 Chloride said yesterday that it finds Emerson’s bid a
“superior proposal.” ABB said it is considering its options
after Emerson put its latest bid on the table.  
 London-based Chloride is an attractive asset for ABB in
part because takeovers of this size are more “digestible” and
easier to integrate, ABB Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan  said
in a June 9 interview. With a customer base spanning data
centers and hospitals the London-based manufacturer of back-up
power equipment would complement ABB robots and automation gear.  
 The number of transactions announced in the U.K. has
recovered in the first two quarters of 2010 from a low during
the financial crisis, with 840 deals so far this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s still more than a third
fewer deals than were announced at the height of M&A activity in
the first quarters of 2007, the data shows.  
 Corporate Tax Benefits  
 “The appetite for M&A has returned,” said Deloitte’s
Adams. “There are a range of hungry investors who have been
sitting on the sidelines with money available and the appetite
to invest.”  
 Scott Wilson, which is helping design London’s Crossrail
train line, would give both suitors the means to tap markets for
transport infrastructure. Another part of the company’s
attraction is Britain’s low corporate tax rate, URS Chairman
 Martin Koffel  said in a June 28 interview.  
 Chancellor  George Osborne  has pledged to reform Britain’s
corporate tax system so that international companies locate in
Britain rather than leave.  
 “While we are conscious of the budget cuts, the public
policy that’s implicit in it actually reinforces our strategy as
there’s a real attempt by the government to make the U.K. more
attractive,” Koffel said. “That includes one of the lowest
corporate tax rates in the world and the possibility of even
lower tax rates in the north and Scotland.”  
 Out of Favor  
 U.S. industrial companies, such as Emerson, Illinois Tool
Works Inc.,  General Electric Co. , and Honeywell International
Inc. have typically remained more diverse and therefore less
susceptible to being bought, Blogg said. GE, based in Fairfield,
Connecticut, operates businesses ranging from power turbines to
medical scanners and trains.  
 In the market for factory robots and industrial automation,
there is a low likelihood that large companies will undertake
transforming transactions, and the focus will be much more on
add-on acquisitions to expand product ranges,  Andreas Willi , an
analyst at JP Morgan Securities Ltd., said in a June 25 report.  
 British conglomerates such as BTR Plc, which owned assets
from New Zealand paper and foil laminator Paper Coaters Ltd. to
Australian aerospace companies Hawker Pacific and Hawker de
Havilland, fell out of favor with investors seeking a more
simplified approach to business, Arbuthnot’s Blogg said.  
 That prompted U.K. industrial companies to narrow their
scope to attract investors. BTR merged with Siebe Plc in 1999
and became  Invensys Plc , the U.K. maker of controls used in
Whirlpool Corp. washing machines. Invensys itself has been the
subject of takeover speculation over the years.  
 “U.K. industrials tend to be more focused; we don’t like
conglomerates here anymore,” Blogg said. “We fell out of love
with those 15 years ago, maybe even longer.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .
 Antonio Ligi  in Zurich at 
 aligi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        