-- Commodity Slump Means Worst Quarter in More Than a Year on Growth Outlook
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-06-30T16:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/commodity-slump-means-worst-quarter-in-more-than-a-year-on-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             Commodities are heading for their
worst quarter in more than a year on investors’ concern that
slower growth from China to the U.S. will sap demand.  
 The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw materials plunged
11 percent since the end of March, led by declines in industrial
metals, gasoline and crude oil. That’s the steepest decline
since the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first time prices
dropped in the first-half since 2001. The gauge climbed 0.1
percent to 4,016.1 at 5:32 p.m. in London.  
 The index fell 2.9 percent yesterday, the most in three
weeks, as U.S. consumer confidence sank more than forecast in
June. The world’s largest economy will slow in the next two
quarters, according to as many as 66 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That will also happen in China, the biggest user of
everything from coal to copper, the surveys show.  
 “If this slowing materializes, then clearly industrial
commodities are going to be the least favored of the bunch,”
said  Sean Corrigan , who helps oversee about $6.5 billion at
Diapason Commodities Management SA in Lausanne, Switzerland.
“If the economy is struggling, gold is going to be the best-
performing commodity.”  
 Gold’s 11 percent advance made it the third-best performer
in the S&P GSCI Index in the quarter, behind a 20 percent jump
for arabica coffee and 17 percent appreciation in natural gas.
Investors accumulated a record amount of gold in exchange-traded
funds backed by the metal, something that also happened in
silver, the fourth-best gainer. The metal rose 6.1 percent,
doubling as a store of value for those concerned about the
economy and an industrial material for those bullish on growth.  
 Leading the Retreat  
 Other industrial metals led the retreat. Zinc’s 25 percent
plunge was the worst quarter since the final three months of
2008. Nickel fell 22 percent, lead 19 percent, copper 17 percent
and aluminum 15 percent. Barclays Capital is forecasting even
lower prices by the fourth quarter. Copper will average $6,000 a
metric ton in the period, 7.7 percent lower than now and
aluminum $1,850, for a drop of 6.1 percent, according to a June
25 report.  
 U.S. sales of new homes collapsed a record 33 percent last
month, Commerce Department data released on June 23 showed.
Builders use about 400 pounds (181 kilograms) of copper in the
average home for wiring and pipes, according to the Copper
Development Association. One in every five tons of aluminum is
used in building.  
 The slump in commodities was still better than the 13
percent decline in the  MSCI World Index  of equities in 24
developed nations. Treasuries returned 4.7 percent, according to
an index from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  
 Oil Declines  
 Oil retreated 9.7 percent since April, the first quarterly
decline since the last three months of 2008. The U.S. is the
world’s biggest energy consumer, ahead of China. U.S. crude
stockpiles tracked by the Department of Energy rose almost 12
percent this year.  
 The International Energy Agency, an adviser to consuming
nations, forecasts that global oil demand will rebound 2 percent
this year after a two-year collapse that was the steepest since
the 1980s. Global oil usage will rise to a record 86.44 million
barrels a day in 2010, according to the Paris-based agency.  
 While copper inventories monitored by the London Metal
Exchange fell 12 percent since the end of March, signaling
accelerating demand, prices dropped. Supply of the metal, the
most traded by value on the LME, fell short of demand in March
for the first time since September, the Lisbon-based
International Copper Study Group said June 22. Industrial
production in China, the world’s biggest copper consumer, jumped
16.5 percent in May.  
 Copper, Gold  
 “The performance of oil, as well as copper, gold, corn
and, potentially, sugar, will lift commodity returns higher,”
said  Hussein Allidina , head of commodities research at Morgan
Stanley in New York, who predicts oil will reach $95 a barrel by
December. “I expect robust performance in the back half of the
year,” he said.  
 Investors’ sentiment toward commodities is “too bearish”
and indicators of economic growth are “still firmly positive,”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by  Jeffrey Currie  in
London, said in a report June 22.  
 Oil will climb to $87 a barrel in six months, 15 percent
more than now, and copper will be at $7,900 a ton, 22 percent
higher from today, according to Currie.  
 Investors should buy the December 2010 West Texas
Intermediate contract traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange
because strengthening demand will shrink stockpiles, Goldman
said in a report June 22.  
 Gain Almost 22%  
 The bank expects commodities, as measured by the S&P GSCI
Enhanced Total Return Index, to gain almost 22 percent in 12
months, led by advances in energy, industrial metals and
precious metals.  
 “I’m short stocks and long commodities,” said investor
 Jim Rogers , the chairman of Singapore-based Rogers Holdings.
“If the world economy gets better, commodities are going to be
the place to be because shortages are developing. If the world
economy doesn’t get better, commodities are still a better place
to be than stocks.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        