-- Commodity Shipping Has Longest Streak of Declines in Five Years on Surplus
-- Alaric Nightingale
-- 2010-06-30T15:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/commodity-shipping-costs-extend-longest-slump-in-five-years-as-fleet-gains.html

          
          
             Commodity shipping costs measured by
the Baltic Dry Index extended their longest losing streak in
almost five years as an expanding fleet overwhelmed weakening
demand for grain, coal and ore carriers.  
 Imports of coal and  iron ore  by China, the world’s biggest
user of the commodities, fell for two consecutive months,
customs data show. Grain shipments from South America slowed,
leaving shipping lines with “the full force of vessel supply,”
 Martin Sommerseth Jaer  and  Erik Nikolai Stavseth , Oslo-based
analysts with Arctic Securities ASA, said in a report.  
 The  index  fell 41 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,406 points,
the lowest since October 2009, according to the Baltic Exchange
in London. That’s the 24th consecutive drop, the longest losing
streak since August 2005. Daily rates for capesize ships,
typically iron ore transporters that are three times the size of
the Statue of Liberty, slumped 59 percent since reaching a 2010
high on June 2.  
 “The capes are the weakest element of the BDI and the
capes are iron ore-” driven,  Andreas Vergottis , research
director at Tufton Oceanic Ltd., which manages the world’s
largest shipping hedge fund, said by phone from London today.
“Profitability of Chinese steel mills is zero now, we think.”  
 Chinese steelmakers are the biggest consumers of iron ore,
more of which is transported at sea than any other dry-bulk
commodity. Dry-bulk demand is also leveling off because of
China’s moves to cool its property market, Vergottis said.  
 Measures taken by the Chinese government to restrain the
Asian nation’s surging property sector have included raising
mortgage rates and downpayment ratios, barring lending for
third-home purchases and ordering tighter scrutiny of
developers’ financing.  
 Fleet to Grow  
 Daily rates for capesizes were little changed today at
$24,239. Rents for smaller panamaxes, the largest vessels able
to navigate the Panama Canal, dropped 4.4 percent to $22,113 a
day. They compete with capesizes for coal and iron ore cargoes
and also carry grains.  
 The total number of ships waiting to transit the canal fell
to 30 from 38 the previous week, according to a June 26 report
from Truro, England-based  Global Ports , which tracks congestion.  
 The fleet of dry-bulk carriers will grow 16 percent to 17
percent this year, Vergottis said. Ships that may have been
ordered in 2008, when the Baltic Dry Index rose to a record
before recording a 92 percent collapse for the year, may now be
surplus to requirements without the demand to absorb them.  
 “At the moment you haven’t got that demand growth,”
Vergottis said. “There are too many ships just when growth in
demand seems to be decelerating.”  
 Shares of Nippon Yusen K.K. fell 0.6 percent in Tokyo
trading today, dropping for a fourth day.  Mitsui O.S.K.  Lines
Ltd. declined 1.5 percent and shares in China Cosco Holdings Co.
retreated by the same amount in Hong Kong. The 12-member
 Bloomberg Dry Ships Index  retreated 27 percent since reaching a
15-month closing high on Jan. 11.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alistair Holloway  in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net .
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        