-- Congolese President Pledges Better Investor Climate Following G8 Criticism
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-06-30T16:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/congolese-president-pledges-better-investor-climate-following-g8-criticism.html

          
          
             Congolese  President  Joseph Kabila 
pledged to improve the business climate in the Central African
country, following criticism by the Group of Eight nations over
the state’s handling of its natural resources.  
 “National and foreign investors are assured of our desire
to work with the private sector in an active partnership with
respect for the laws of our country and the interests of Congo,”
Kabila said in a speech today in the capital, Kinshasa.  
 Congo ranked second-to-last in the World Bank’s 2010  Doing
Business  guide for its ease of doing business.  
 The country’s handling of its natural resources, which
include deposits of copper, cobalt, gold, diamonds and oil, was
criticized at the G-8 summit in Canada on June 26. The group
called on Congo to “extend urgently the rule of law” and
“enhance governance and accountability in the extractive
sector.”  
 Canadian officials said last week they would raise Congo’s
expropriation of  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. ’s copper project at
the G-8 meeting. The mine was shuttered last year after a two-
and-a-half-year government review of Congo’s mining contracts.
The Vancouver-based company said it and its partners brought the
case to the International Chamber of Commerce’s International
Court of Arbitration in Paris on Feb. 1.  
 Kabila spoke at a ceremony to mark 50 years of Congo’s
independence from Belgian colonial rule. He said the anniversary
marked a milestone in the history of the country, which has been
beset by political assassinations, secessionist movements,
rebellions and invasions since its founding on June 30, 1960.  
 Growth Rate  
 The 39-year old president, who was elected in Congo’s first
democratic presidential election in 2006, said successes over
the past decade included the establishment of peaceful relations
with Congo’s neighbors and a growth rate higher than the African
average in five of the past six years.  
 “It’s equally undeniable that we have also experienced
regrettable failings, notably in terms of development, social
progress, and human rights,” he said. The country shared
“collective responsibility,” for these “inadequacies in our
performance,” Kabila said.  
 Congo remains one of the poorest countries in the world,
according to the  United Nations Development Program , and is
regularly criticized for its abuse of human rights by the UN and
Western governments.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        