-- Copper Rebounds After U.S. Manufacturing Expands, Allaying Economy Concern
-- Debarati Roy
-- 2010-06-30T20:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/copper-rebounds-after-u-s-manufacturing-expands-allaying-economy-concern.html

          
          
             Copper prices rose for the first
time in three days after a report showed that U.S. manufacturing
expanded for a ninth straight month, easing concern that the
global economic recovery is faltering.  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer in June stood at 59.1. Figures greater
than 50 signal growth. Commodity and equity market rallied after
the report. This quarter, the metal fell 17 percent, the first
drop since the end of 2008.  
 “Copper will be incredibly volatile in the coming
months,”  Spencer Patton , the chief investment officer of Steel
Vine Investments in Chicago, said in an e-mail. “Global growth
will be self-sustaining, but slower.”  
 Copper futures for September delivery rose 2 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $2.9505 a pound on the Comex in New York.  
 Earlier, futures fell as much as 2 percent. A report today
showed that U.S. private-sector employers added fewer jobs than
forecast. China’s benchmark stock index fell to a 14-month low
on mounting concern that the nation’s expansion is easing. China
and the U.S. are the world’s top metal buyers.  
 In June, copper declined 5 percent. Futures are down 12
percent this year.  
 “Copper’s drop is indicative of a significant downshift
coming in the back half of this year for industrial growth,”
said  James Dailey , who manages $145 million at TEAM Financial
Asset Management LLC in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  
 The price may fall to as low as $2.30 a pound by the end of
the year, Dailey said.  
 Copper for delivery in three months rose $21, or 0.3
percent, to $6,515 a metric ton ($2.96 a pound) on the London
Metal Exchange.  
 Aluminum, zinc, lead and nickel also climbed on the LME.
Tin dropped.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
 Millie Munshi  in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        