-- Cotton Output May Reach Record, Likely Spurring India to End Export Curbs
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-06-30T10:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/cotton-output-may-reach-record-likely-spurring-india-to-end-export-curbs.html

          
          
             Cotton output in  India , the world’s
second-biggest grower, may rise to a record next year, spurring
expectations the government will lift curbs on exports, the head
of the nation’s biggest grouping of textile mills said.  
 Production may total as much as 32.5 million bales of 170
kilograms each in the year starting Oct. 1, compared with 29.2
million bales,  D.K. Nair , secretary general of the  Confederation
of Indian Textile Industry , said in a phone interview today.  
 A bigger crop may help the country lift curbs on overseas
sales to countries including China, the biggest cotton user, and
increase competition for suppliers from the U.S. and Uzbekistan.
A resumption in shipments from India may weigh on cotton prices,
which have advanced 35 percent in the past year as U.S. farmers
reduced planting in favor of wheat and soybeans.  
 “A decision on freeing exports may come in October, by
which time the government will have a clearer picture about the
crop,” said  Veeresh Hiremath , an analyst at Karvy Comtrade Ltd.,
by phone from Hyderabad.  
 Cotton futures for December delivery fell for a third day,
losing as much as 0.6 percent to 77.70 cents a pound in after-
hours trading on ICE Futures U.S.  
 India in April curbed exports to rein in prices and bolster
supplies, and said traders would need a license to sell abroad.
 Shipments  from Oct. 1 to June 15 were 7.38 million bales, almost
double from a year earlier, according to data from the textiles
commissioner’s office.  
 Chinese Demand  
 China will increase its import quota by almost 1 million
tons and sell more from state stockpiles to meet a shortfall,
the China Cotton Association said June 25.  
 “India will be able to take advantage of any incremental
demand from Asia,” the textile association’s Nair said. “The
government may choose to calibrate exports, taking into account
domestic demand and prices.”  
 Shares of mills that produce cotton yarn surged in Mumbai
trading.  Ambika Cotton Mills Ltd.  rose 4.2 percent to a record
179 rupees, while  Bannari Amman Spinning Mills Ltd . advanced 2
percent to 117 rupees. Mafatlal Industries Ltd. jumped as much
as 5 percent to 109.8 rupees, the highest price since May 24.  
 U.S. growers may have sown 10.8 million acres, 18 percent
more than last year and the biggest gain since 1995, according
to the average estimate of 12 analysts and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg. The U.S. Department of Agriculture projected 10.505
million acres in March.  
 Plantings Increase  
 Pakistan’s output will rise to 10.55 million bales in the
12 months that begin on Aug. 1 from an estimated 9.92 million
bales in the previous year, the USDA’s attache said May 24. In
India, the area may widen to 11 million hectares (27.2 million
acres) from 10.1 million, the association’s Nair said.  
 “No agricultural commodity has given growers the returns
the way cotton has and that’s sure to spur planting,” he said.  
 India’s monsoon rainfall, the main source of irrigation for
the nation’s 235 million farmers, will be 102 percent of the 50-
year average, helped by the La Nina weather event, the state-run
forecaster said last week.  
 Average yield per hectare of cotton fell 7 percent to 488
kilograms because of last year’s drought. This season, yields
will improve by at least 5 percent as farmers plant gene-altered
seeds to more than 70 percent of the crop area, Nair said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        