-- Curfew Extended in Indian Kashmir After Three More Youths Killed by Police
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-06-30T10:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/curfew-extended-in-indian-kashmir-after-three-more-youths-killed-by-police.html

          
          
             Indian authorities extended a curfew
to more areas of Kashmir and deployed additional forces after
three youths were killed in police firing yesterday during
clashes with protesters.  
 Restrictions were imposed in some towns in south Kashmir,
where the three died, Farooq Ahmad, inspector general of police
for the  Kashmir region , said by phone. “The situation today is
under control,” he said. Clampdowns were maintained in parts of
the summer capital, Srinagar, and Baramulla to the west, Press
Trust of India reported.  
 Indian-controlled Kashmir has been roiled by protests and
shutdowns triggered by the deaths of 11 people in less than
three weeks, killings blamed on the security forces. Pro-
independence demonstrators across the disputed territory have
defied curfews and pelted government forces with stones. Police
have opened fire and used tear gas to disperse crowds.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has called a meeting of
senior officials this evening to discuss the situation, Press
Trust reported.  
 The Kashmir region, divided between India and Pakistan
since shortly after independence in 1947 and claimed in full by
both, is at the heart of the dispute between the nuclear-armed
neighbors and was the cause of two of three wars.  
 An anti-India insurgency erupted in the Kashmir in 1989
with militants fighting either for independence or union with
neighboring Pakistan. Violence levels have now fallen. India has
long accused Pakistan of supporting guerrillas targeting Jammu
and Kashmir, its only Muslim-dominated state. Pakistan says it
offers only moral support to separatists groups.  
 ‘Maximum Restraint’  
 “There are reliable reports that anti-national elements
are trying to exploit the situation,” Home Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  said in a statement yesterday in New Delhi. “Some
militants may also have sneaked into the valley to trigger
violence.”  
 The federal government will support the Jammu and Kashmir
government in its efforts to end the violence, Chidambaram said,
adding security forces have been instructed to use “maximum
restraint” while dealing with rioters and youths throwing
stones.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        