-- Deutsche Bank Hires Four Ex-Merrill Bankers for Japan Turnaround Advisory
-- Hideki Sagiike
-- 2010-06-30T06:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/deutsche-bank-hires-ex-merrill-lynch-bankers-for-japan-turnaround-advisory.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest
lender, hired four former Merrill Lynch & Co. bankers as it adds
corporate restructuring to its advisory business in Japan.  
 Tomohiro Ishikawa , who advised companies on restructurings
while at Merrill Lynch, and mergers specialist  Yasuaki Hirabayashi  are among the new hires who formerly worked at the
Wall Street firm, said  Hiroshi Jinno , co-head of mergers and
acquisitions at Deutsche Securities Inc. in Tokyo. All four
bankers joined in May from Tokyo-based Recof Corp.  
 Japan’s strengthening economy gives Deutsche Bank an
opportunity to win business helping nurse bankrupt companies
back to health, said Jinno, 50. The Frankfurt-based bank was
picked by  Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corp. of Japan , set
up by the government in October, to help  Japan Airlines Corp. 
emerge from bankruptcy, according to Jinno.  
 “The Japanese economy has hit the bottom, and there’s a
chance for companies to take action to improve their business,”
he said in a June 28 interview. “Japanese lenders are regaining
strength, and ETIC is actively operating.”  
 Japanese exports began improving last year, led by demand
from other Asian countries, helping drag the world’s second-
largest economy out of its deepest postwar recession. About
4,900 companies in Japan filed for bankruptcy in this year’s
first five months, a 14 percent decrease from the year-earlier
period, according to Teikoku Databank Ltd.  
 Deutsche Bank also hired former Merrill Lynch bankers
 Tetsuro Nakatani  and  Tomoyuki Utsuhara  for the restructuring
business, Jinno said.  
 Finding Buyers  
 Overseas banks, which usually target large corporations
like  Toyota Motor Corp.  or Sony Corp. for business, are earning
less on fees as the market becomes more competitive,  Katsunobu Komizo , chief executive officer of Executive Search Partners Co.
in Tokyo, said. That has made mid-sized firms with market values
less than 500 billion yen ($5.6 billion) more attractive, as
many are still struggling to stay afloat and require turnaround
help.  
 “Smaller companies are a good niche for the foreign firms
because Japanese banks have less expertise there and managers at
those middle-sized companies are hungry for solutions,” Komizo
said.  
 Ishikawa and Nakatani will focus on turnaround advisory,
while Hirabayashi also covers natural resources and energy
industries. Utsuhara will cover industries including financial
institutions, Jinno said.  
 Turnaround Advisory  
 The four bankers left Merrill Lynch between 2006 and 2009.
Merrill Lynch was acquired by  Bank of America Corp.  in January
2009.  
 The restructuring group will also help troubled Japanese
companies get financing or find potential acquirers before they
file for bankruptcy, Jinno said, adding that he may hire more
bankers for the unit.  
 “We formed the turnaround advisory in May to win business
we might miss if the industry, mergers and capital markets teams
work alone,” Jinno said. “It will fill coverage needs as we
see more opportunities coming in the next three to five years.”  
 ETIC appointed Deutsche Bank as an adviser to help
restructure Japan Airlines after its 2.32 trillion yen
bankruptcy, Jinno said. The carrier, which sought protection
from creditors in January, accounts for about 60 percent of all
liabilities stemming from Japanese bankruptcies this year.  
 Josef Ackermann , Deutsche Bank’s chief executive officer,
is recruiting hundreds of people for the company’s investment
bank amid the European debt crisis and as the U.S. overhauls its
financial regulations, he said at the Fortune Global Forum in
Cape Town on June 27.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Hideki Sagiike  in Tokyo at 
 hsagiike@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Deutsche Bank CEO Josef Ackermann speaks at the bank's annual shareholders' meeting in Frankfurt. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
