-- Dollar, Euro Share of Global Reserves Declined in First Quarter, IMF Says
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-06-30T18:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/dollar-s-share-of-worldwide-foreign-currency-reserves-declined-imf-says.html

          
          
             The euro and dollar’s share of
global foreign-exchange reserves both fell in the first quarter
as central banks increased holdings of currencies from other
economies, the International Monetary Fund said.  
 The U.S. currency’s portion dropped to 61.5 percent in the
period ended March 31, matching the lowest in more than a
decade, from a revised 62.2 percent in the prior quarter. The
euro’s share slipped to 27.2 percent from a revised 27.3
percent, while the yen gained and the pound was unchanged.  
 Central banks reported larger holdings of currencies in the
IMF’s category that may include Canadian dollars, Australian
dollars and the Norwegian krone. Leaders including Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  have called for a supranational
currency to challenge the dollar’s dominance and wider
international use of the ruble.  
 “The numbers do feed into the storyline that central banks
have been diversifying,” said  Win Thin , a New York-based senior
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  
 The IMF reports reserve holdings of U.S. dollars, euros,
pounds, yen and Swiss francs. The share of “other currencies”
rose to 3.7 percent, from 3.1 percent in the previous quarter
and the highest level in at least a decade of IMF record-
keeping.  
 The euro fell 5.7 percent against the dollar from January
through March, its steepest quarterly drop against the U.S.
currency since a 10.6 percent decline in the third quarter of
2008. The slide has continued through the second quarter, with
the euro about 9 percent weaker since March 31.  
 ‘Safe-Haven’  
 “The timing is kind of interesting because at the time we
were all looking at significant safe-haven flows into the U.S.
dollar from many countries around the world,”  Kathy Lien ,
director of currency research with online currency trader GFT
Forex in New York. “It means maybe that participation wasn’t
necessarily from central banks, perhaps central banks were
simply selling the euros and not necessarily accumulating
dollars at the same time.”  
 The pound’s share of reserves was unchanged at 4.3 percent,
while the yen’s portion rose to 3.1 percent from 3 percent,
according to the IMF data.  
 The IMF calculated the dollar’s share based on data from
central banks that report their currency allocations. Some
countries, including China, the world’s largest reserve holder,
don’t give currency breakdowns.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        