-- Euro Climbs Against Dollar, Yen as European Banks Seek Less Cash From ECB
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-06-30T21:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/dollar-weakens-on-u-s-recovery-doubts-yen-retreats-from-eight-year-high.html

          
          
             The euro rose against the dollar and
the yen after the European Central Bank said it would lend banks
less than some analysts estimated, spurring optimism that
funding pressures among financial institutions are easing.  
 The 16-nation currency trimmed gains after Moody’s
Investors Service said it placed Spain’s Aaa local and foreign
currency government bond ratings on review for possible
downgrade. It posted quarterly losses against all of its major
counterparts except for the Danish krone. The euro fell 14.3
percent against the yen, the most since the last three months of
2008, and 9.4 percent against the dollar, the worst performance
since the third quarter of that same year.  
 “It’s negative news which is perhaps also coming on a day
where another important thing for the market has been this ECB
three-month award,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “We’re not adding
bad news on bad news; it’s simply helping to offset some good
news from earlier in the day.”  
 The euro gained 0.4 percent to $1.2238 at 5:06 p.m. in New
York, from $1.2188, after earlier rising to $1.2304. It gained
as much as 1.1 percent to 109.13 yen before trading at 108.22
yen. Against the Japanese currency the dollar declined 0.2
percent to 88.43.  
 The common currency fell yesterday to an eight-year low
against the yen amid concern European banks’ demand for ECB
loans would signal weakness in the region’s financial industry.  
 Forint, Ringgit, Leu  
 The  Dollar Index , which the ICE futures exchange uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, has risen 10.5 percent this year as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis spurred demand for the currency as a
haven. It dropped 1.5 percent over the same period in 2009.  
 The yen is the best performer versus the greenback this
year among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
followed by the Mexican peso and Singapore’s dollar. The Danish
krone is the worst performer, followed by the euro. Among
emerging-market currencies, Columbia’s peso is the best
performer, followed by the Malaysian ringgit, while the worst
performers are the forint of Hungary and Romania’s leu.  
 The euro today gained versus 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as the ECB said it will loan 131.9 billion euros
($161.5 billion) to banks in a three-month tender, compared with
estimates of as high as 300 billion euros from some analysts.  
 Demand by European banks for the three-month cash today was
a litmus test for the health of the region’s financial system,
economists said.  Laurent Fransolet , head of European fixed-
income strategy at Barclays Plc in London, estimated before the
ECB release that banks would ask for 250 billion euros to 300
billion euros, with the higher end of the range indicating banks
were still finding it hard to fund themselves.  
 ‘Encouraging Sign’  
 “It’s an encouraging sign that European banks don’t need
as much liquidity as previously thought,” said  Elsa Lignos , a
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “The
figure is almost half of what was expected.”  
 Banks tomorrow need to repay 442 billion euros ($540
billion) under the ECB’s so-called Long-Term Refinancing
Operation, a major part of its effort to contain the financial
crisis last year. The central bank has reinstated unlimited
three-month lending to provide banks with access to cash.  
 The euro is likely to decline in the third quarter of this
year, though is unlikely to collapse, according to a survey of
Barclays Plc clients.  
 More than 80 percent of respondents said the 16-nation
currency is likely to have a further decline or to be
rangebound, while 4 percent expect a euro rally,  Paul Robinson ,
a currency strategist at Barclays in London, wrote in a research
note today. Fewer than 10 percent think the euro is likely to
collapse, he said.  
 ‘Lot of Fear’  
 The dollar declined against the yen after reports showed
U.S. employers added fewer jobs than forecast in June and
business activity expanded for a ninth month.  
 Companies in the U.S. expanded payrolls by 13,000 in June,
according to a report from ADP Employer Services. The figures
were forecast to show a gain of 60,000 jobs, according to the
median estimate of 36 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A Labor
Department report on July 2 is forecast to show payrolls
declined in June, reflecting a drop in federal census workers.  
 “A lot of fear has come back into the market,” said
 Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. in New York. “We’ve had a series of poor numbers
that have been pointing towards a much slower recovery than
anticipated.”  
 Global Reserves  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer fell to 59.1 this month, in line with the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, from
59.7 in May. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  
 The euro and dollar’s share of global foreign-exchange
reserves both fell in the first quarter as central banks
increased holdings of currencies from other economies, the
International Monetary Fund said.  
 The U.S. currency’s portion dropped to 61.5 percent in the
period ended March 31, matching the lowest in more than a
decade, from a revised 62.2 percent in the prior quarter. The
euro’s share slipped to 27.2 percent from a revised 27.3
percent, while the yen gained and the pound was unchanged.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        