-- Drill Ban, FedEx, Binge Broker, Glaxo, Pfizer, Merck, Kagen in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-30T10:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/drill-ban-fedex-binge-broker-glaxo-pfizer-merck-kagen-in-court-news.html

          
          
             A federal appeals court in New
Orleans set an expedited hearing date for arguments over whether
to lift a moratorium on deep-water drilling. The hearing is
scheduled for July 8.  
 U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman ruled the six-month
drilling ban, issued after the explosion and sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig in April, was overly broad and he
prohibited federal regulators from enforcing it.  
 On June 25, the government asked the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New Orleans to put the order on hold during an appeal. The
U.S. previously filed notice that it would appeal Feldman’s
order.  
 The appeals court yesterday ordered lawyers for plaintiffs
challenging the ban to file responses to the U.S. request by
July 2. “If it can be filed earlier, the court would appreciate
that,” according to a letter to attorneys posted on the court’s
web site. “No extension will be granted.”  
 President Barack Obama temporarily halted all drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet on May 27 to give a presidential
commission time to study improvements in the safety of offshore
operations.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other offshore service
and supply companies sued U.S. regulators, including Interior
Secretary Kenneth Salazar, on June 7, seeking to lift the ban.
They argued they would suffer irreparable economic harm from the
suspension in drilling.  
 Feldman rejected the ban June 22, finding it too broad, and
barred federal regulators from enforcing it. Two days later he
denied a U.S. request to put his order on hold while regulators
appeal.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, 5th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 Motorola, Nokia Allowed to Refile LCD Antitrust Suit  
 Motorola Inc. ,  Nokia Oyj  and other buyers of liquid crystal
display panels used in handsets may refile a price-fixing
lawsuit they brought against makers of the screens, including
 Samsung Electronics Co.  and LG Display Co.  
 U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco rejected
both federal and state antitrust claims brought by the mobile-
phone makers and gave them until July 23 to file amended
complaints.  
 Illston, agreeing with the LCD makers that Motorola failed
to show she had jurisdiction in the case, said the mobile-phone
maker didn’t demonstrate that products bought abroad were
imported into the U.S. or that there was an anti-competitive
effect in the U.S.  
 “Although  Motorola  argues that defendants intended for the
foreign-purchased LCD panels and products to be brought to the
United States, Motorola has not cited any authority adopting
such an expansive definition of ‘import,’” Illston said in an
order filed June 28.  
 The judge also ruled that Nokia, which sought only damages
for domestic purchases and purchases directly imported into the
U.S., failed to distinguish between purchases of its Finnish
parent company and those of its U.S. subsidiary.  
 AT&T Inc. ’s wireless unit failed to allege that its
purchases of price-fixed products occurred in states whose
antitrust laws it invoked, the judge said.  
 In March, Illston certified a class action on behalf of
direct purchasers of LCDs or goods containing them from 1999 to
2006. She also certified a nationwide class of indirect buyers
who bought TVs and computers beginning in 1996.  
 Since 2008, six LCD makers have pleaded guilty and were
fined more than $860 million in a criminal investigation in the
U.S. Suwon, South Korea-based  Samsung , the world’s largest LCD
maker, hasn’t pleaded guilty to price fixing.  
 Jennifer Erickson, a spokeswoman for Schaumburg, Illinois-
based Motorola, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  
 The case is In Re TFT-LCD (Flat Panel) Antitrust
Litigation, 07-1827, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  
 FedEx Wins Dismissal of Some Claims in Worker Lawsuit  
 FedEx Corp.  won partial dismissal of a  class-action lawsuit 
by contract drivers who contend they’re entitled to full
benefits because the company treats them as employees.  
 A federal judge in South Bend, Indiana, threw out some
claims in the suit, saying the workers failed to exhaust out-of-
court, administrative procedures that might help them get the
medical, dental and retirement benefits they’re seeking.  
 “Merely showing that FedEx is predisposed to deny the
plaintiffs’ claims and has consistently taken that position in
this lawsuit isn’t sufficient to show by certainty that the
claims would be denied,” U.S. District Judge Robert L. Miller
wrote in a June 28 opinion.  
 Miller’s decision allows the plaintiffs to re-file  claims 
against Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx, the world’s largest air-
cargo carrier, should the named plaintiffs exhaust the
administrative process. The company says its contract driver
model is legal and was approved for tax purposes by the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service in 1994.  
 “It’s a procedural setback as opposed to a substantive
setback,” plaintiffs’ lawyer Lynn Faris said in a telephone
interview. “We will do exactly as the judge says and have the
named plaintiffs file the administrative claims.”  
 “The ruling is the latest victory for FedEx Ground in the
ongoing legal challenges to the independent contractor model,”
FedEx spokesman Maury Lane said in an e-mailed statement. “We
believe that all lawsuits in the multidistrict litigation are
without merit and part of a broad-based assault on independent
contractors who have chosen to own and operate their own
businesses.”  
 The case is In re FedEx Ground Package System Inc.
Employment Practices Litigation, 3:05-md-00527, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Indiana (South Bend).  
 Starr Prosecutors Get Another Month to Indict Andrew Stein  
 Government attorneys prosecuting Kenneth Ira Starr, the New
York investment adviser who faces federal fraud charges,
obtained a month-long extension of a deadline to indict Andrew
Stein, the former Manhattan borough president, in the case.  
 Court records show that U.S. Magistrate Judge Ronald Ellis
yesterday signed an order to extend, to July 28, the date by
which prosecutors must indict Stein.  
 Stein was arrested on May 27 along with Starr and charged
with committing a tax crime and with lying to investigators.
Both men were charged in a criminal complaint filed with the
court the day before. Starr was indicted alone on June 11.  
 On June 17, Stein was seen leaving the offices of U.S.
prosecutors in Manhattan. Stein’s attorney, Andrew Maloney,
didn’t return calls seeking an explanation for why his client
was meeting with prosecutors. Janice Oh, a spokeswoman for the
U.S. attorney in Manhattan, declined to comment on the matter.  
 Starr, 66, is charged with stealing at least $59 million
from 11 clients including film star Uma Thurman and former
basketball star Julius Erving. Starr has pleaded not guilty.  
 The criminal case is U.S. v. Starr, 10-MJ-1135, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Ex-Bristol-Myers Executives’ Prosecution Deferred  
 U.S. prosecutors agreed to drop five-year-old fraud charges
against former  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  executives Frederick S.
Schiff and Richard Lane, who must pay money to a settlement fund
under a court-approved deal.  
 Schiff, 62, a former finance chief, and Lane, 59, a former
director of worldwide medicines, were first charged in 2005 with
fraud and conspiracy. Prosecutors accused them of failing to
tell investors in 2000 and 2001 that Bristol-Myers arranged tens
of millions of dollars in incentives to spur wholesalers to buy
more drugs than needed, a practice known as channel stuffing.  
 Under deferred-prosecution agreements approved yesterday in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman
will drop charges in one year as long as Schiff pays $225,000,
Lane pays $175,000, and both abide by their terms of pre-trial
release. Neither can serve as a chief executive officer or chief
financial officer of a publicly traded company for two years.  
 “This misguided prosecution should have never happened in
the first place,” said Schiff attorney David M. Zornow of
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in New York. “It has
been a nightmare, and no one can give him back those years but
he is extremely gratified today that he has been vindicated this
way.”  
 Lane’s attorneys, Richard Strassberg and Robert Braceras of
Goodwin Proctor LLP, called the agreement a “tremendous
vindication” for their client.  
 “It vividly demonstrates what we have always maintained --
that at all times Mr. Lane acted properly and in the best
interests of Bristol-Myers Squibb and its shareholders,” the
attorneys said in a statement.  
 Bristol-Myers  paid $300 million in 2005 to avoid
prosecution for channel stuffing, part of the $839 million it
spent to resolve investor lawsuits and probes by U.S.
prosecutors and regulators. In 2003, Bristol-Myers erased $2.5
billion in revenue from 1999 to 2001 related to the practice.  
 The money that Schiff and Lane will pay will go to the
“Department of Justice Bristol-Myers-Squibb Settlement Fund or
such other settlement fund as the United States Attorney
directs,” according to their deferred-prosecution agreements.  
 The case is U.S. v. Schiff, 06-cr-406, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 United, Continental Sued in Bid to Block Merger  
 UAL Corp.’s  United Airlines  and  Continental Airlines Inc. 
were sued over claims the companies’ proposed merger would
create a monopoly, increasing fares and costing jobs.  
 The complaint was filed yesterday in federal court in San
Francisco by Joseph Alioto, a lawyer who said he is representing
U.S. consumers and small businesses. Alioto is seeking to block
the merger.  
 “We believe in competition, not combination,” Alioto said
in an interview. “The trend in this particular industry is
heading straight for monopoly.”  
 The merger will increase fares, reduce the number of
flights, diminish services such as meals and eliminate tens of
thousands of jobs, according to the complaint. The proposed
merger “substantially restrains” the competition between the
carriers for passenger service throughout the U.S. at the
expense of consumers, Alioto wrote.  
 United and Continental are seeking regulatory approval to
combine under an all-stock merger they announced May 3. The new
company would surpass Delta as the world’s biggest airline and
mesh United’s Pacific routes with Continental’s service in Latin
America and over the Atlantic.  
 “We believe this suit has no merit, and we will vigorously
defend what we strongly believe to be a transaction that is in
the best interests of Continental, its shareholders and the
flying public,” Julie King, a spokeswoman for Continental, said
in an e-mailed statement.  
 Jean Medina, a United spokeswoman, also said the complaint
has no merit.  
 The case is Malaney v. UAL Corp., 10-2858, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Legal Reviews  
 Ex-Oil Broker Fined for Trading Abuses While Drinking  
 The U.K. financial regulator fined a former broker at PVM
Oil Futures Ltd. 72,000 pounds ($108,000) for trading without
client authorization and lying to his employer about it while
going on drinking binges.  
 The Financial Services Authority also banned Steven Perkins
from working in the financial services industry for five years.
Perkins traded on the ICE Futures Europe exchange “in the early
hours of the morning” in June 2009 without client
authorization, the FSA said in a statement yesterday. He “drank
excessively” over the weekend and the day of the trades, the
regulator said.  
 “Perkins’ drunkenness does not excuse his market abuse,”
said Alexander Justham, director of markets at the FSA.
“Perkins has been banned because he is not a fit and proper
person to be involved in regulated activities and his behavior
posed a risk to the proper functioning of the market.”  
 Perkins’ job was to trade orders on an execution only basis
in Brent Crude Futures contract on the ICE exchange for his
firm’s clients. He traded “in extremely high volume” on the
exchange in August, accumulating a long position in Brent crude
in excess of 7,000 lots, or more than 7 million barrels of oil,
the FSA said. The value of the position was over $520 million,
according to the regulator.  
 Perkins’ lawyer, Stephen Pollard, didn’t respond to a
request for comment. Perkins agreed to settle the case and
qualified for a 20 percent discount on his fine under the FSA’s
settlement procedures. The regulator also reduced his fine
because of his financial circumstances.  
 For more, click here.  
 Three Ordered to Pay $173 Million Over FSA Deposit-Rule Breach  
 Three men who accepted deposits without proper
authorization from the U.K. financial regulator were ordered by
a London court to return 115 million pounds ($173 million) to
investors.  
 John Anderson, Kenneth Peacock and Kautilya Nandan Pruthi
were ordered to pay the U.K. Financial Services Authority for
unlawfully accepting deposits while operating as Business
Consulting International, John Anderson Consulting and Kenneth
Peacock Consulting, the regulator said in a statement yesterday.  
 The regulator will return any money it receives to
investors. It is unlikely that the money will be repaid, the FSA
said.  
 “This case again emphasizes the importance of taking care
to ensure that any firm or individual consumers deal with are
authorized or approved by the FSA,” enforcement director
Margaret Cole said in the statement.  
 The men were arrested in May last year by the City of
London police on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud, money
laundering and fraud by misrepresentation. The police
investigation into Business Consulting is ongoing, and a fourth
man was arrested in the probe in July.  
 Pruthi, Anderson and Peacock represented themselves at
trial and numbers for them couldn’t be located.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 GE Loses 10-Year-Old Challenge to EPA Superfund Law  
 General Electric Co.  lost a federal appeals court challenge
to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund law that
governs cleanup of hazardous waste sites.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington sided with a lower court, rejecting the company’s
argument that the agency violated its due process rights under
the U.S. Constitution.  
 GE was contesting a provision of the Superfund law that
denies the company the ability to go to court to challenge the
government’s claims. The lawsuit was filed in 2000, before GE
agreed to and began to clean up 40-mile stretch of the Hudson
River polluted with polychlorinated biphenyl.  
 “GE is evaluating the decision and reviewing its
options,” said Mark Behan, a spokesman for Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE. The ruling will have no effect on the
company’s dredging, where one phase of work was completed last
year and the next is scheduled to start in 2011, he said.  
 The case is General Electric Co. v. Jackson, 09-5092, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  
 FDA’s Avandia Ruling Won’t Affect Suits, Lanier Says  
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s  legal liabilities won’t worsen even
if U.S. regulators decide the company’s diabetes drug Avandia
should be pulled off the market, plaintiffs’ lawyer Mark Lanier
said.  
 An advisory panel will meet next month to consider whether
Avandia’s ability to control blood-sugar levels in diabetics
outweighs a possible increase in heart attacks, strokes and
deaths from cardiovascular disease. While no studies have proven
the drug is dangerous, the availability of a similar medicine
that appears to lower heart attack risk has drug-safety
advocates calling for Avandia to be withdrawn.  
 London-based  Glaxo , the U.K.’s biggest pharmaceutical
company, has settled or is close to settling as many as half the
13,000 lawsuits claiming Avandia caused heart attacks and other
risks, said Lanier, of the Lanier Law Firm in Houston, in an e-
mail. An FDA decision to withdraw Avandia wouldn’t open the door
to new lawsuits by patients who claim they were injured by
taking the drug, he said.  
 “Word has been out way too long about possible medical
troubles,” he said. “Avandia cases are really hard to prove at
trial. The costs associated with trying the cases are huge
compared to the potential returns.”  
 Glaxo agreed to pay about $60 million, or about $86,000 per
case, to resolve 700 Avandia suits filed by attorneys including
Lanier last month. The settlement suggests about $1.1 billion of
liability, wrote Gbola Amusa, a UBS AG analyst in London, in a
May 11 note to investors.  
 A few more cases may be filed if Avandia is deemed
dangerous and pulled from the market, “but probably not too
many more,” Lanier said. A decision by the FDA or Glaxo to
withdraw the drug “probably wouldn’t affect settlement values
much, either,” he said.  
 Glaxo doesn’t comment on specific litigation, company
spokeswoman Claire Brough said by phone.  
 Pfizer Rejected by U.S. High Court on Nigerian Suits  
 The  U.S. Supreme Court  rebuffed business calls for limits
on human-rights lawsuits, refusing to stop claims that  Pfizer
Inc.  tested unproven antibiotics on Nigerian children without
telling their parents about the risks.  
 Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, sought in its
unsuccessful appeal to shield companies from U.S. lawsuits by
foreigners under the Alien Tort Statute.  
 The suits stem from a 1996 outbreak of bacterial meningitis
in northern Nigeria. New York-based Pfizer allegedly worked in
concert with Nigerian officials to recruit 200 sick children for
an experimental study of its new Trovan antibiotic.  
 The lawsuits say Pfizer didn’t disclose the experimental
nature of the study or the risks involved. Eleven children died
and others were left paralyzed, deaf or blind, according to the
suits.  
 A federal appeals court ruled that the lawsuits could go
forward. In rejecting the company’s appeal, the justices heeded
the advice of the Obama administration, which argued that the
appeal wasn’t suitable for high court review.  
 The Alien Tort Statute authorizes federal courts to
consider some lawsuits by non-citizens for human-rights
violations committed abroad. Courts have said the Alien Tort
Statute applies to private companies when they act in concert
with a foreign government.  
 Pfizer said in a statement that, while it is disappointed
by the high court rebuff, it can still press other arguments at
the trial court level.  
 “The company has reserved its right to again move to
dismiss the cases on various grounds, including the fact that
Nigeria is the appropriate forum for the cases to be heard,”
the company said.  
 The case is Pfizer v. Abdullahi, 09-34, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Merck Doesn’t Have to Refund Louisiana, Judge Says  
 Merck & Co.  doesn’t have to refund money the state of
Louisiana paid for the withdrawn Vioxx painkiller, a federal
judge ruled.  
 Managers of Louisiana’s state-sponsored health programs had
no power under state law to halt reimbursements for Vioxx
prescriptions, even had they known that Merck misled them about
the drug’s heart-attack risk, U.S. District Judge Eldon Fallon
in New Orleans ruled yesterday.  
 Louisiana “did not carry its burden that, had the state
possessed different clinical information about Vioxx, it would
have sought to restrict Vioxx Medicaid reimbursements
entirely,” wrote Fallon, who heard the case without a jury. It
was the first of more than a dozen refund cases filed by states
over Vioxx to go to trial.  
 “We’re satisfied with the court’s decision and believe
that the evidence showed that Merck acted appropriately by
labeling Vioxx under the direction of the FDA and according to
the evolving science available at the time it was on the
market,” said Ron Rogers, a Merck spokesman, in an interview.  
 “We’re shocked and disappointed in the judge’s decision,”
said James Dugan, one of the state’s lawyers. “We’re going to
meet with the attorney general’s office to discuss our appellate
rights.”  
 Louisiana sought to recover more than $20 million in the
state’s case, including more than $11 million in damages, along
with its litigation expenses and attorneys fees.  
 The Louisiana case is State of Louisiana v. Merck, Sharp &
Dohme Corp., 05-3700, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Court News  
 Kagan Says Military Had Access to Harvard Students  
 U.S. Supreme Court  nominee Elena Kagan defended her
treatment of military recruiters when she was dean at  Harvard
Law School , saying they had access to students “every single
day” and any limitations were aimed at protecting the rights of
gays and lesbians on campus.  
 Kagan said military officials recruited through an off-
campus veterans’ group as she enforced a rule barring them from
using the law school’s office of career services because the
military kept gay people from serving openly.  
 “Military recruiters had access to Harvard students every
single day I was dean,” Kagan said in response to questioning
on the second day of her confirmation hearings before the  Senate
Judiciary Committee . She said military recruiting increased at
one point during her tenure, and that she often told alumni and
students in the military “how much I respected their service.”  
 The military recruitment question is one of the major
issues facing Kagan, President Barack Obama’s choice to become
the nation’s 112th justice. Republicans have used the issue to
question her political leanings.  
 Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the ranking Republican on
the committee, told Kagan he believed she treated the military
“in a second-class way.” He said, “I feel like you mishandled
that.”  
 Kagan said she opposed the military’s “don’t ask, don’t
tell” policy on gay people serving in the armed forces and
still does. She called it “unwise and unjust.” The U.S. House
of Representatives on May 27 voted to repeal the policy.  
 For more, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        