-- Dubai's Nakheel Starts Payment to Creditors in $10.5 Billion Restructuring
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-06-30T12:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/dubai-nakheel-makes-40-cash-payments-to-trade-creditors-in-restructuring.html

          
          
             Nakheel PJSC began making payments
to its biggest contractors as the Dubai World-owned property
company seeks to alter terms on $10.5 billion of unpaid bills
and loans amid falling property prices in the emirate.  
 Nakheel started making 40 percent cash payment to trade
creditors, according to a company statement today. “The
announcement marks significant progress in our recapitalization
plan following on from the initial payments to trade creditors
of 500,000 dirhams or less which commenced in March.”  
 Nakheel, the builder of palm-shaped islands off Dubai’s
coast, said in March that trade creditors would be offered 100
percent recovery of their claims -- 40 percent through a cash
payment and 60 percent through a publicly tradable Islamic bond,
paying 10 percent return annually. The Dubai government in March
pledged to pump $8 billion into Nakheel and said it will take
over its ownership from Dubai World after the restructuring.  
 Nakheel along with  Emaar Properties PJSC , another state-
controlled developer, spearheaded a building boom in Dubai after
the emirate allowed foreigners to buy property in some parts.
The boom turned bust as global credit conditions led to a
tightening of mortgage lending and speculators fled the market.  
 The company’s $750 million fixed-rate Islamic notes rose
1.075 cents to 106.825 cents on the dollar at 4:17 p.m. in
Dubai, according to Bloomberg composite bond trader prices. The
notes have more than doubled since reaching a low on Feb. 17.  
 Positive Move  
 “This is definitely positive for the real-estate sector and
get the wheel rolling again,” said  Majed Azzam , an analyst at HC
Securities in Dubai. “The only issue here is it will create some
more supply in the market, which was initially put on hold,”
although it won’t be very significant, he said.  
 Three quarters of Nakheel’s trade creditors have agreed to
the new payment terms, a Nakheel spokesperson, who declined to
be identified because of company policy, told reporters. More
than 60 percent of them have signed the accord and the rest are
likely to do so in two weeks, the spokesperson said.  
 Nakheel will pay 4 billion dirhams ($1.1 billion) to trade
creditors, the spokesperson said, indicating that 6 billion
dirhams will be paid through a five-year Islamic bond, or sukuk.
The company will resume work on six projects -- Jumeirah Park,
Jumeirah Islands, Jumeirah Village, Jumeirah Heights, Al Furjan
and Badrah District, the spokesperson said.  
 Dubai World  
 Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
business groups, on May 20 reached an agreement with its main
creditors to restructure $23.5 billion of loans. The company’s
announcement on Nov. 25 to delay repaying loans sparked a plunge
in developing-nation stocks and the largest increase in
emerging-market bond yields over U.S. Treasuries in four weeks.
The cost to protect against a default by Dubai doubled.  
 “Everybody is so focused on Nakheel that they are missing
the point that there are others who don’t have government
support, and are just as bad or worse,” said  Saud Masud , a
Dubai-based analyst at UBS AG. Nakheel is expected to contribute
40 percent to 50 percent of supply of new residential units in
the emirate that will depress prices further, he said.  
 Dubai property prices have slumped more than 50 percent
from their peak in August 2008 as mortgages dried up, according
to estimates from Colliers International.  
 Nakheel paid a 3.6 billion-dirham ($980 million) Islamic
bond maturing in May. Dubai avoided a default in December on
$4.1 billion of payments due for Nakheel’s 2009 bond after Abu
Dhabi and two of its state-owned banks provided $10 billion.  
 Ambitious Plans  
 Nakheel’s plans include residential islands shaped like a
world map and a coastal development that would be twice the size
of Hong Kong Island. The company in March said it will offer
finished properties or securities to customers who purchased
units in developments that won’t be completed. Its  website  still
contains descriptions of planned or incomplete projects
including palm islands and Dubai Waterfront, which could
accommodate almost all of Dubai’s current population.  
 The Dubai government and its state-owned companies have
racked up $109.3 billion of debt, according to  International
Monetary Fund  estimates, as the emirate sought to transform
itself into a tourism, trade and financial services hub. About
$15.5 billion of that is due this year, the IMF said.  
 Dubai Holding  
 Debt restructuring by Dubai state-run companies may almost
double to $46.7 billion as more of the emirate’s businesses may
need help making payments, Morgan Stanley said in a report in
December. Dubai Holding LLC, Dubai Holding Commercial Operations
Group LLC, Borse Dubai Ltd. and Dubai Sukuk Center Ltd. may join
Dubai World in restructuring debt, Morgan Stanley said.  
 Dubai Holding and its units owe banks $12 billion and have
begun talks to roll over some loans, a person with knowledge of
the matter said May 10. Almost three-fourths of the loans were
to Dubai Holding’s two investment companies, Dubai Group LLC and
Dubai International Capital LLC, said the person.  
 Dubai International Capital, the fund owned by Dubai’s
ruler  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al-Maktoum , sought a three-
month extension on some of its loan payments in May. The company
has a $1.25 billion loan due this month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        