-- DWS Holds Greek Government Bonds on Bet Its Austerity Package Will Succeed
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-30T12:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/dws-holds-greek-government-bonds-on-bet-its-austerity-package-will-succeed.html

          
          
             DWS Investment GmbH, Germany’s
biggest mutual fund company, is retaining its holdings of Greek
government debt, betting the nation’s austerity measures will
help it weather the crisis that forced a European Union rescue.  
 “Greece is going to suffer a severe recession, but what we
can see is monthly budget figures are looking fine,”  Johannes Mueller , a fixed-income economist in Frankfurt at DWS, which
oversees $347 billion, said in a telephone interview. “If that
continues for the next two years there’s a reasonable chance
that Greece can stand on its own feet again.”  
 The yield on 10-year  Greek bonds  surged to a record 12.47
percent on May 7 as speculation mounted some nations would be
unable to fund their budget deficits, prompting the EU to design
a 750 billion-euro ($921 billion) backstop to contain the debt
crisis. Greek bonds have since been supported by European
Central Bank purchases of securities of the region’s most
indebted nations.  
 The EU and International Monetary Fund earlier in May
agreed on 110 billion euros of emergency loans for Greece.
Increased taxes, trimmed wages and reduced spending, the price
demanded by European leaders for the aid, are showing signs of
success. Greece’s budget deficit shrank 38.7 percent to 8.978
billion euros in the five months to the end of May, the Athens-
based Finance Ministry said June 21. That compares with a 35.1
percent target for the entire year.  
 Greek 10-year bonds rose a second day today, with the yield
falling 17 basis points to 10.47 percent as of 12:40 p.m. in
London.  
 Bond Purchases  
 Euro-region central banks stepped up purchases of Greek,
Portuguese and Irish government securities yesterday, according
to traders, who declined to be identified because the
transactions are confidential. The ECB bought 55 billion euros
of government bonds including Greek debt through June 25, the
central bank said two days ago.  
 DWS chose not to sell its bonds to the ECB because it
doesn’t expect the nation to default in the next two or three
years, Mueller said. He said in April DWS had been adding to its
holdings of the debt.  
 Greek bonds will be removed from bond indexes managed by
Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc and the Markit iBoxx index at
the end of this month after they were downgraded to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service on June 14.  
 “The market underestimated the scale of the crisis,”
Mueller said. “There is still some repositioning necessary
because of this rating downgrade. Over time I think matters
should improve again.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        