-- DynCorp Garrison-Complex Delays Hampered Afghan Troop Training, Audit Says
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-30T15:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/dyncorp-garrison-project-delays-hampered-afghan-troop-training-audit-says.html

          
          
             DynCorp International Inc.  delays in
completing a northern Afghanistan garrison complex forced Afghan
troops to be housed in temporary facilities that exposed them to
mud, freezing conditions, unsafe food storage and sewage,
according to U.S. auditors.  
 Falls Church, Virginia-based DynCorp International, one of
the U.S. Army’s largest contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan, is
at least 19 months late completing the Kunduz facility,
according to U.S. auditors. The $72-million project is slated to
be finished by August and house 1,800 troops.  
 “Pervasive delays” in construction projects for Afghan
personnel are hampering U.S. efforts to build a credible Afghan
security force, North Atlantic Treaty Organization trainers told
investigators for Special Inspector General for Afghanistan
Reconstruction  Arnold Fields .  
 Delays at the Kunduz garrison project are “dramatically
restricting training and operations,” said an  audit  Fields
released June 29.  
 DynCorp spokeswoman  Ashley Burke  said in an e-mail “it is
impossible to anticipate the myriad of unexpected challenges
that face construction teams operating in hostile areas.”  
 “In addition to the challenges operating a project in a
war zone, soil abnormalities have been a major issue impeding
progress,” she said.  
 ‘Terrible Conditions’  
 The DynCorp project is meant to support a U.S. effort to
train and house the Afghan Army, which is scheduled to grow to
172,000 by October 2011 from 103,000 a year ago. Delays at the
Kunduz complex have hampered training, the audit found.  
 “We saw the effects of construction delays on the
development of units at that site,” said Emily Rachman, the
senior auditor who compiled the report.  
 “We observed Afghan army personnel living in temporary
facilities and dealing with terrible conditions that were
impeding the training efforts of NATO mentors,” Rachman said in
an interview.  
 During a February visit, auditors saw “Afghan army
personnel coping with deep mud, freezing conditions, unsanitary
shower and bathroom facilities, inadequate dining facilities,
medically unsafe food storage and sewage being openly discharged
on the surface of the compound,” the audit said.  
 German military mentors training the Afghan unit said
“they were enormously frustrated,” Rachman said. “We went out
and trudged through the mud at the site and observed it first-
hand. The effect on training and mentoring is obviously
enormous.”  
 Fields disclosed the basic construction delays and problems
in an April 30  audit . It concluded the garrison in Kunduz
province was unusable because of “poor quality welds, rust on
steel supports” and “severe settling” of soil.  
 DynCorp Action  
 DynCorp’s Burke said the company hired geological experts
to investigate the soil problems. The experts are working to
“determine a definitive cause” so a corrective plan can be
developed, she said. The company is making a series of interim
repairs to contain the damage, she said.  
 Those include reinforcing foundations and adding additional
soil grading to aid drainage from structures, she said.  
 The company has been docked $1.4 million so far for the
cost of administering the contract beyond the scheduled
completion date, said Army Corps of Engineers spokesman Eugene
Pawlik. Under its contract, Burke said, the company is working
to provide the proper justification for delays it believes fall
“outside the contractor’s control” and hopes to receive the
payments in full once the work is complete.  
 DynCorp is addressing all the problems and the complex is
scheduled to open in August, Pawlik said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        