-- East African Nations to Declare Common Market, Clearing Way to Free Trade
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-06-30T11:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/east-african-nations-to-declare-common-market-clearing-way-to-free-trade.html

          
          
             The five-nation  East African
Community  will declare a common market tomorrow, leading to the
creation of a free trade zone over the next few years and
ultimately enabling them to forge a political federation.  
 Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi, now in a
customs union, will probably take as many as five years to enact
the legislation and regulations required to put the common
market protocols into effect, said  Amos Kimunya , Kenya’s trade
minister, in a speech broadcast on Nairobi-based NTV today.  
 “What is happening on the first of July is official
recognition,” he said. “I believe by 2015 all the barriers
will be collapsed and East Africans will be able to move
freely.”  
 The common market protocol, signed on Nov. 20 by all EAC
heads of state, will expand the bloc’s five-year-old customs
union to enable the free movement of people, capital and
services and abolish import duties. The EAC encompasses 126.6
million people with a combined gross domestic product of $73
billion and aims to adopt a shared currency by 2012.  
 The bloc was founded by Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania in 1999,
to boost regional trade after a previous decade-long free trade
effort failed in 1977. Rwanda and Burundi joined in 2007.  
 Mixed Success  
 A customs union that began Jan. 1, 2005, was the EAC’s
first concrete step to strengthen trade ties. It established a
common external tariff, an identical tax applied to a list of
imports from outside the bloc, and allowed duty-free regional
trade with the exception of Kenya, the largest economy.  
 The accord’s success has been mixed. Intra-regional trade,
as a proportion of the bloc’s total trade, fell to 8.4 percent
in 2008 from 11 percent in 2005, according to data compiled by
the  Kenya Association of Manufacturers .  
 The region’s poor roads, cumbersome customs procedures and
unreliable energy supplies are impediments to cross-border trade
that can’t be solved overnight, Christopher Onyango, a trade
analyst with the  Kenya Institute for Public Policy Research and
Analysis , said by e-mail.  
 There has also been disagreement over adjustments to the
common external tariff to protect nascent industry, Onyango
said. “The concern is that such benefits appear to have
triggered an increasing trend by partner states to abuse the
provisions,” he said. “This is likely to distort fair trade.”  
 July 1 is the day that the “serious work” starts, EAC
Secretary General  Juma Mwapachu  said, according to an  e-mailed
statement  on June 24. Remaining tasks include the five nations
agreeing to remove restrictions in the aviation industry and the
elimination of work permits for job-seekers within the bloc, he
said. Tanzania must also relax foreign exchange rules to allow
citizens to invest in the capital markets of partner countries.  
 “Come July the hard part begins,” Peter Kiuluku,
Executive Director of the Arusha, Tanzania-based  Trade Policy
Training Centre in Africa , said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “There are no short cuts to fast track a complex
process. Expect pace setters and laggards.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        