-- LeBron James Leaves Ugly Scorched-Earth Legacy: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-06-30T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/lebron-james-leaves-ugly-scorched-earth-legacy-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             Tomorrow, at long last, at an
undisclosed location in  Ohio , two years of speculation and
salivation becomes something tangible. Our national sports
obsession -- make that international -- with all things  LeBron James  takes a giant leap toward resolution.  
 At this point I’m less interested in which team gets the
basketball wunderkind than the rationalizations of the ones that
don’t. There’s going to be a lot of explaining to do.  
 Even with an online  countdown clock  available for reference
it seems like forever since National Basketball Association
teams began pounding their calculators, feverishly cutting and
trading not to improve, mind you, but to make room under the
salary cap for you know who.  
 Call it basketball’s scorched-earth policy.  
 The other free agents have familiar surnames like Wade and
Bosh and Stoudemire. Make no mistake, though, there are no
consolation prizes in LeBronapalooza. Only one team wins.  
 Welcome to today’s NBA, where too many franchises are
incessantly peddling to their already overcharged customers the
idea of a better tomorrow. Next year, they say. Or, at the most,
the one after that. Trust us. There’s a plan, even if there
isn’t a plan.  
 Those mired in mediocrity have for the past two seasons
sold their fans on tomorrow, when a 25-year-old with two Most
Valuable Player awards becomes free to negotiate with anyone.
Lots of explaining, all right.  
 The promise of James was the carrot giving the Knicks, Nets
and rest of them a free pass to stink. Salary cap space became
more attractive than drafting and trading well.  
 Better Work  
 The Chicago Bulls, among the frontrunners for James, were
actually lauded on draft night for agreeing to all but give the
capable  Kirk Hinrich  and, more importantly, his $9 million
salary to the woeful Washington Wizards. It had better work.  
 Come one, come all. Kneel before the man known as King
James, who won’t be visiting the suitors desperate for his
services. The recruiting process, much to the Knicks detriment,
won’t be about sizzle, celebrities, dinner parties or
distractions.  
 Fire up the  Cablevision Systems Corp.  jet, boys.
Destination Cleveland, where fans of the Cavaliers are
practically begging James, a self-described kid from Akron, to
quash any big-city dreams.  
 James and his minions will ask a lot of questions of a lot
of people, including, but not limited to, those affiliated with
the Bulls, incumbent Cavaliers, Clippers, Heat, Nets and Knicks.
They all want him. Some need him. Big difference. James single-
handedly can win lots of games, which, more than anything,
attracts ticket buyers and sponsors willing to part with their
money even in these economic times. He’s buzz. He’s that good.  
 Year Seven  
 What will it take to satisfy James, who,  seven seasons  into
his career, is still without a championship? Rest assured that
James knows  Michael Jordan , player and pitchman extraordinaire,
won the first of his six rings in year No. 7.  
 The clock is ticking on James, whose only trip to the
Finals came in 2007, when the Cavaliers were swept by the San
Antonio Spurs. A victorious  Tim Duncan  predicted the league
would soon belong to James. James is the center of attention,
but it’s  Kobe Bryant  who keeps on winning.  
 James will turn inquisitor, pressing owners, executives and
coaches on why they, and not the other guys, are the best fit.  
 The New York contingent will undoubtedly talk about the
$700 million-plus  renovation  to Madison Square Garden. What they
and the other clubs need to know is that James would play in a
barn equipped with mangled rims and chain-link nets if it meant
a championship.  
 James in all likelihood is about to commit the prime of his
career to one team. The next time James signs a contract he’ll
be a 30-something. Knees get balky fast in the NBA.  
 Hysteria Builds  
 James has always spoken in terms of multiple championships,
which is where best-of-all-time discussions get started.  
 You can’t blame the hysteria surrounding his free agency on
James. This is, after all, a sports world powered by ESPN, which
helped to make the kid a household name when it televised one of
his high-school games. Sports Illustrated magazine played a
part, too, putting a boyish-looking James on the  cover , calling
him The Chosen One.  
 Tomorrow it’s The Chosen One who will begin the process of
choosing. They’re lining up for an audience with the King with
no ring.  
 I’ve felt all along that James, in the end, would stay in
Cleveland, cognizant that a parade there would mean more than
another celebration in Chicago’s Grant Park or New York’s  Canyon
of Heroes .  
 Meet in the Heat  
 But who knows what kind of wannabe championship cabal
James, Bosh and Wade concocted at their recent summit in the
South Beach sun. Word is the All-Stars met over the weekend,
trying to hatch a plan to play together while still getting
paid.  
 Imagine  Miami  gets all three. That would sure put the heat
on the rest of the NBA. As for the LeBronapalooza losers, well,
they’re about to discover that scorched earth isn’t easy to
sell. Oh, how they’ll try, though. The sales pitch undoubtedly
will start with the promise of a better tomorrow.  
 ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        