-- ECB Lends Banks Less Than Estimated in Sign of Health
-- Gabi Thesing
-- 2010-06-30T16:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/ecb-lends-banks-161-5-billion-for-three-months-as-12-month-loan-expires.html

          
          
             The European Central Bank said it
will lend banks 131.9 billion euros ($161.5 billion) for three
months, less than economists forecast and a sign that the
region’s  financial industry  may be stronger than investors
estimated.  
 Banks tomorrow need to repay 442 billion euros in 12-month
funds, the biggest amount ever awarded by the ECB and a key
plank in its efforts to fight the financial crisis last year.
Demand for the three-month cash today was a litmus test for the
health of Europe’s banking system, economists said.  
 Demand was “surprisingly low and certainly a lot less than
markets expected,” said  Nick Kounis , chief European economist
at Fortis Bank NV in Amsterdam. “It suggests that while there
are certainly stresses in the system in some regions, it’s not
as bad across the board as many people thought.”  
 European banks climbed after the announcement and U.S.
stocks rose. The euro strengthened more than half a cent and
traded at $1.2290 at 4:43 p.m. in London. The  rate  banks charge
for three-month loans in euros rose almost 2 basis points to
0.706 percent, the highest since September 2009, signaling
lenders are increasingly tapping each other for wholesale
financing.  
 Debt Crisis  
 Financial institutions have been wary of lending to each
other after Europe’s sovereign debt crisis fueled concern that
some governments may struggle to refinance their debts,
prompting investors to shun bonds sold by nations including
Greece, Portugal and  Spain . While the ECB no longer offers banks
12-month loans, the debt crisis has forced it to extend some of
its other non-standard measures and to start buying the bonds of
big-deficit governments.  
 Greek, Irish and Portuguese banks are the most reliant on
ECB funding, Barclays Capital analyst  Simon Samuels  wrote in a
note to clients yesterday. National Bank of Greece SA and Banco
Santander SA were among the biggest gainers following the ECB’s
announcement, each surging more than 4 percent.  
 The Frankfurt-based ECB still lends banks as much cash as
they want at its  benchmark rate  of 1 percent for periods of up
to six months. It said 171 banks asked for the three-month funds
today.  
 Economists expected banks to look for 200 billion euros,
according to the median of seven estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Barclays Capital, which did not take part in the survey,
forecast banks would ask for between 250 billion euros and 300
billion euros, while Citigroup Inc. estimated bids would total
between 150 billion euros and 200 billion euros.  
 ‘Orderly Transition’  
 ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  noted that demand for the
loans was “somewhat lower” than the market expected. The
facility, along with others such as a six-day loan the ECB will
offer tomorrow, will “allow for an orderly transition” as the
12-month loan expires, Trichet told a press conference in Rome
today.  
 Eliminating the 12-month facility was part of the ECB’s
long-term exit strategy and the bank has taken “every
precaution” to avoid a liquidity squeeze, Governing Council
member  Ewald Nowotny  said in Vienna yesterday.  
 “A lot of the original 442 billion was taken by banks who
didn’t need it, banks that saw an opportunity for arbitrage,”
said  Patrick Jacq , head of interest rate strategy at BNP Paribas
SA in Paris. “There was never going to be a repeat of the full
amount.”  
 Perceived Tightening  
 The ECB flooded the financial system with cheap cash after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008
to unfreeze credit markets and to help pull the economy out of
its worst recession since World War II.  
 Today’s loans may see short-term market borrowing costs
rise as there is less excess cash in the system, Commerzbank AG
analysts said. With “excess liquidity vanishing,” monetary
conditions are “perceived to be tightening,” said  Christoph Rieger , an interest rate strategist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.  
 Still, the significance of the low take-up in the three-
month tender is a “red herring” as European banks will be able
to access unlimited ECB funds at various other tenders up until
October and probably beyond, said  Simon Maughan , a London-based
banking analyst at MF Global Securities Ltd.  
 “Also, the benefit of unlimited cheap money is that you
can use it for carry trades and play the yield curve,” he said.
“Right now all the uncertainty out there about Spain, Greece
and Portugal means that you don’t want to be doing that.”  
 Europe’s fiscal crisis continues to push up gauges of
credit risk as officials conduct stress tests of European banks’
ability to withstand further market turmoil.  
 The difference between the three-month dollar London
interbank offered rate and the overnight indexed swap rate, a
gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend, climbed to 0.338 percentage
point on June 25, the widest spread in a year. It was at 0.334
percentage point today. European bank shares dropped yesterday,
with Allied Irish Banks Plc and Credit Agricole SA leading the
declines.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- German Deputy Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter says he’s confident that European Union governments will act should the planned publication of stress tests on banks reveal weaknesses. Bloomberg's Sara Eisen reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Eliminating the 12-month facility is part of the ECB’s long-term exit strategy and the bank has taken “every precaution” to avoid a liquidity squeeze, Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said in Vienna yesterday. Photographer: Dieter Nagl/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
