-- Hedge-Fund Startups Attracting Interest From Overseas Investors, BofA Says
-- Komaki Ito
-- 2010-06-30T00:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/hedge-fund-startups-attracting-interest-from-overseas-investors-bofa-says.html

          
          
             Japanese hedge-fund startups are
beginning to attract the interest of overseas investors as the
nation’s industry has the best performers this year, according
to  Futoshi Ago  at  Bank of America Corp.   
 New hedge funds set up by managers with “long track
records with good performance” at their former jobs and
strategies focusing on trading skills to profit from rapidly
changing markets are luring clients, said Ago, who heads Merrill
Lynch Japan Securities Co.’s prime brokerage business in Tokyo.
Demand is coming mainly from Asian investors including funds of
hedge funds and family offices, he said.  
 “We’re seeing investors who are willing to put their money
from day one if the funds employ strategies that suit their
needs,” Ago, who joined Bank of America’s brokerage unit in
March to head the business catering to hedge funds, said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday. “Funds being set up by former
proprietary traders are also under focus because of their
ability to control risks, experience in trading large amounts of
funds, and trade rapidly.”  
 Among the Japan-focused funds starting this year are
Alithion Japan Fund, set up by former Mizuho Securities Co.
proprietary traders; T&D Japanese Equity Long & Short Fund,
managed by former managers at Yunzei Investment Research, a
Tokyo-based hedge-fund advisory firm; and the Orix Commodities
Fund, headed by Orix Investment Corp.’s chief trader.  
 ‘Under Spotlight’  
 The Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Fund Index  has returned 3.4
percent this year through May, making it the best-performing 
index among five regional indexes, according to Eurekahedge 
Pte. Last year, Japan-focused hedge funds returned 7.2 
percent, compared with 20 percent by the  global index  and 
27 percent by the index measuring Asia-focused hedge funds.  
 “Japan is under the spotlight again amid expectations that
there will be a turnaround in the industry,” Ago said.
“Investors are also looking to reallocate their investments in
China to take profit and pick Japan instead, where there is
ample liquidity.”  
 Ago, who formerly worked for Morgan Stanley’s prime
brokerage business, said he also is noticing this year overseas
hedge funds coming to Japan to raise money, targeting
institutional investors including pension funds.  
 About 37 percent of Japanese pensions surveyed by JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s asset management unit said they expect to boost
allocations to alternative investments, including hedge funds.  
 Prime brokerage services include matching investors with
hedge fund managers, securities lending, asset financing and
trading.  
 Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        