-- Medtronic's Corevalve Wins U.K. Appeal Over Edwards Heart-Valve Patent
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-06-30T15:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/medtronic-s-corevalve-wins-u-k-appeal-over-edwards-heart-valve-patent.html

          
          
             Medtronic Inc. ’s CoreValve unit
didn’t infringe  Edwards Lifesciences  Corp.’s European patent for
artificial heart-valve technology, a U.K. appeals court ruled.  
 A panel of three judges at the Court of Appeal today in
London upheld a January 2009 trial-court ruling that determined
Edwards’s patent was “valid, but not infringed.”  
 “Following argument, we were able to form a clear
conclusion to the effect that the CoreValve product did not
infringe,” Judge Robin Jacob said in the ruling.  
 Edwards sued Irvine, California-based CoreValve over an
invention for  valve replacement  using blood-vessel catheters,
without open-heart surgery. Minneapolis-based Medtronic acquired
CoreValve in April 2009 for $700 million, after the dispute with
Edwards had already started.  
 “The ruling has no effect on sales” of the Edwards’
Sapien heart valves “in the U.K. or any other country,”
Edwards spokesman Michael George said today in an e-mail.  
 In April, a U.S. jury in Wilmington, Delaware, awarded
Edwards $73 million in damages for infringing a U.S. patent for
the same technology. Medtronic in February said a German appeals
court ruled that the CoreValve system didn’t infringe a related
patent in that country.  
 The lower court rejected Medtronic’s claim that the Edwards
patent is invalid. The appeal court let that finding stand and
didn’t consider it on appeal, since it held that Medtronic
wasn’t infringing.  
 Meaning of Cylindrical  
 The patent relates to a heart valve mounted on a
cylindrical stent that can collapse and expand. Jacob ruled that
“cylindrical” in the patent implied the stent should have a
consistent diameter. Medtronic’s stent flares at one end.  
 The rulings show that the exact words used in claims are
“still very important,” according to  Nicola Dagg , an
intellectual property lawyer with the firm Allen & Overy LLP in
London, who isn’t involved in the case.  
 “CoreValve won on infringement basically on the very
simple point that ‘cylindrical’ in the claim means what it
says,” Dagg said in an e-mail.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        