-- Lehman Creditors, Rangers, St. Vincent, Black Crow, GM, DBSI: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-06-30T13:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/lehman-creditors-rangers-st-vincent-black-crow-gm-dbsi-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Creditors with $15.5 billion in
claims against  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  fired the opening
salvo in a possibly protracted courtroom battle over how
billions of dollars generated in the Lehman liquidation should
be distributed to creditors.  
 An ad hoc group of the creditors said in court papers filed
yesterday that so-called substantive consolidation of 23 Lehman
affiliates would increase recoveries for holding company
creditors “by billions.” The group includes California Public
Employees’ Retirement System, Canyon Capital Advisors LLC,
Fortress Credit Opportunities Advisors LLC, Owl Creek Asset
Management LP and Paulson & Co.  
 Lehman filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and explanatory
disclosure statement in April where creditors of each of the
Lehman companies are treated according to the claims against the
particular affiliate and the assets of the entity in question.  
 The plan also would allow creditors to enforce guarantees
where one Lehman company, typically the holding company,
guaranteed debt owing by a subsidiary. A creditor with a
guarantee therefore could collect twice on the debt, although
not more than the amount owed.  
 In substantive consolidation, as the ad hoc group would
prefer, guarantee claims aren’t recognized; all assets of all
companies are thrown into one pot, and unsecured creditors of
all companies are treated the same.  
 The ad hoc group said that the “purported settlement” in
Lehman’s plan regarding some guarantee claims is “illusory.”
The settlement puts a cap of $21.2 billion on what the creditor
group calls “previously undisclosed board resolutions and
intercompany agreements” giving rise to guarantees by one
Lehman company in favor of creditors of others.  
 The group believes the settlement is of little value
because affected claims won’t greatly exceed the cap. As it now
stands, the ad hoc group says the “plan’s proposed allocation
of value within the individual debtor estates is seriously
flawed.”  
 The holding company creditors contend that the new debt or
stock proposed for distribution to holding company creditors
gives “very little value” to their group while there is
“enormous value” to creditors of subsidiaries who receive
cash.  
 The group wants the bankruptcy judge to hold a status
conference on July 14 to address how disputes over the
disclosure statement should be handled. The ad hoc group
proposes changes in the disclosure statement to explain how much
holding company creditors would gain if there were substantive
consolidation. They also want the judge to set up a schedule for
pre-trial discovery in advance of hearings for approval of the
disclosure statement and plan.  
 For details on the Lehman plan and disclosure statement,
click here and here for the April 15 and April 16 Bloomberg
bankruptcy reports.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment-banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Updates  
 Baseball’s Texas Rangers List Assets at $79.6 Million  
 The  Texas Rangers  baseball club filed formal lists of
assets and debt yesterday, showing property worth $79.6 million
against debt totaling $173.7 million. Secured claims were listed
for $93.5 million.  
 The lists of property didn’t put a value on the franchise
from Major League Baseball.  
 The schedule of financial affairs says that the team’s
income from the business was $149.5 million in 2008 and $167.4
million in 2009. Through May 31, income in 2010 was $54.9
million.  
 The confirmation hearing for approval of the Rangers’ plan
is scheduled for July 9 at U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Fort Worth,
Texas. The plan is opposed by secured lenders owed $525 million.  
 The plan would directly pay them $75 million of the $256
million the Rangers estimate the lenders will recover in total
from the sale of the club to a group including current team
President Nolan Ryan, a former major league pitcher and member
of the Hall of Fame.  
 The Rangers moved to Texas from Washington in 1972. The
team defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.
The partnership that owns the team is Texas Rangers Baseball
Partners.  
 Michael Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter Bill
Rochelle, is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 St. Vincent Sells Staff House for $67.3 Million  
 St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers, a shuttered 727-bed
acute-care hospital in Manhattan’s Greenwich Village, decided
that a $67.3 million offer was the best bid for a residential
building at 555 Avenue of the Americas (6th Avenue) and 15th
Street in Manhattan.  
 The price represented a 40 percent increase from the offer
the hospital received before the bankruptcy court approved sale
procedures. The purchase contract says that the winning bidder
is affiliated with Stonehenge Partner Inc., 888 7th Avenue in
New York. The original offer came from Taconic Investment
Partners LLC.  
 A hearing to approve the sale will take place tomorrow.  
 Commonly known as Staff House, the property was used as the
residence for 160 young doctors.  
 St. Vincent filed under Chapter 11 for a second time in
April. The new petition listed assets of $348 million against
debt totaling $1.09 billion. The hospital concluded the prior
reorganization in July 2007 with a Chapter 11 plan claimed at
the time to have a “a realistic chance” of paying all
creditors in full. The previous reorganization left the medical
center with more than $1 billion in debt.  
 The primary asset sales are yet to take place. The main
hospital has 941,000 square feet in 10 buildings. The nonprofit
hospital is sponsored by the Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn and
the Sisters of Charity. It was founded in the mid-19th century.  
 When the prior bankruptcy began in July 2005, St. Vincent
had seven operating hospitals. Five were sold.  
 The new case is In re Saint Vincent Catholic Medical
Centers of New York, 10-11963, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The prior case was In re Saint
Vincent Catholic Medical Centers of New York, 05-14945, in the
same court.  
 General Growth Aiming for October Plan Confirmation  
 General Growth Properties Inc.  said in a court filing
yesterday that it will emerge from reorganization slightly later
than the previous schedule. On July 9, the mall owner will file
a reorganization plan and explanatory disclosure statement for
itself and three other top-tier companies.  
 The hearing for approval of the disclosure statement is to
take place in August, with a confirmation hearing for approval
of the plan in October.  
 In May, the bankruptcy judge approved an agreement where a
group including  Brookfield Asset Management Inc.  will invest $7
billion to finance a Chapter 11 plan paying all creditors in
full. All property-owning subsidiaries already have confirmed
their own plans to pay their creditors fully.  
 The Brookfield agreement allows General Growth to shop for
other financing on more favorable terms. In the court filing
yesterday, General Growth said it is exploring the possibility
of a “public capital raise” that is “seldom, if ever, seen in
a Chapter 11 case.”  
 General Growth is asking the bankruptcy judge to extend the
exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan until Oct. 18. The
hearing on the exclusivity motion will take place on July 22.  
 General Growth began the largest real-estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books
of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and
total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008. The
company owns or manages more than 200 shopping-mall properties.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Wilmington Diocese Parishes Lose $75 Million Ruling  
 Parishes and parochial schools in the  Catholic Diocese of
Wilmington Inc . sustained a stinging defeat on June 28 when the
bankruptcy judge in Delaware ruled that $75 million of their
money, which should have been held in trust, became part of the
diocese’s bankrupt estate and must be shared with sexual-abuse
claimants.  
 The diocese maintained a pooled investment account holding
$120 million belong to the diocese and 31 organizations, such as
schools and parishes. The creditors’ committee, mostly
representing abuse claimants, filed suit in December, claiming
there was not a valid trust so all the money could be used for
creditors’ claims.  
 After mediation failed to produce a settlement, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher S. Sontchi  held a four-day trial
and issued his 44-page opinion on June 28.  
 Although Sontchi ruled there was a valid trust, he said
that the parishes and schools failed “to meet their burden of
tracing those funds.” Consequently, the parishes and schools
became unsecured creditors for their $75 million and will be
paid alongside sexual-abuse claimants.  
 Sontchi acknowledged that the result “may seem harsh.”  
 Sontchi’s opinion is a lengthy exploration of arcane trust
law. He needed to weave his way through other cases pointing to
a result in favor of the parishes and schools. In the process of
ruling in favor of abuse claimants, he concluded that a U.S.
Supreme Court opinion wasn’t applicable. He also said that an
opinion from the U.S. Court of Appeals in Philadelphia must be
limited “to the facts of that case.” In addition, Sontchi
disagreed with an earlier decision by another bankruptcy judge
in Delaware.  
 The diocese’s Chapter 11 filing in October automatically
stopped 136 abuse suits involving 147 plaintiffs, according to a
court filing by the diocese. The Delaware diocese is the seventh
Roman Catholic diocese to file for Chapter 11 protection to deal
with lawsuits for sexual abuse. Previous filings were by the
dioceses in Spokane, Washington; Portland, Oregon; Tucson,
Arizona; Davenport, Iowa; Fairbanks, Alaska; and San Diego.  
 The case is In re Catholic Diocese of Wilmington, 09-13560,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware, (Wilmington).  
 Corus Sues FDIC to Keep $258 Million in Tax Refunds  
 Corus Bankshares Inc ., the holding company whose bank was
taken over by regulators in September, filed under Chapter 11 on
June 15 and started a lawsuit yesterday against the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. to decide ownership of $258 million in
tax refunds.  
 The U.S. Trustee appointed a creditors’ committee
consisting of five members. All are indenture trustees.  
 In the lawsuit against the FDIC, which is the receiver for
the failed bank subsidiary, Corus describes how it paid taxes
for all affiliated companies under a tax-sharing agreement.
Corus contends that the agreement gives the FDIC, as the bank’s
receiver, nothing more than an unsecured claim for the bank’s
share of refunds.  
 Corus says the agreement didn’t create a trust relationship
so that all refunds are part of the holding company’s bankrupt
estate.  
 Corus’s petition filed in Chicago listed assets of $314.1
million against debt totaling $532.9 million.  
 The Corus bank had 80 branches and $7 billion in deposits
that were transferred to  MB Financial Inc.  in a transaction
estimated at the time of the September takeover to cost the FDIC
$1.7 billion.  
 The case is In re Corus Bankshares Inc., 10-26881, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 Visteon Seeks Exclusive Plan Rights Until October 15  
 Auto-parts maker  Visteon Corp . filed a motion for an
extension of the exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan on
June 28, the same day the bankruptcy judge formally approved a
disclosure statement allowing creditors to begin voting on
whether to approve the reorganization.  
 If granted at a July 15 hearing, so-called exclusivity
would be pushed out to Oct. 15.  
 The bankruptcy judge scheduled a 10-day confirmation
hearing to begin Sept. 28. Should all creditors and shareholder
classes vote for the plan, an unlikely occurrence, the judge
would accelerate the confirmation hearing and approve the plan
on Aug. 25.  
 Shareholders and some creditors are opposing the plan. For
details on Visteon’s plan, click here for the June 15 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. For a rundown on the positions taken by
various parties even before the hearing for approval of the
disclosure statement, click here for the May 25 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co . Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000.  
 At the outset, Van Buren Township, Michigan-based Visteon
owed $2.7 billion for borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on
a secured term loan, $862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214
million on other debt obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Black Crow Wants More Exclusivity, GECC Drops Appeal  
 Black Crow Media Group LLC  is seeking a second extension of
the exclusive right to propose a reorganization plan.  
 The closely held owner of 22 radio stations says its time
has been consumed since the beginning of the case in January
with litigation against  General Electric Capital Corp ., the
secured lender owed $38.9 million at the outset.  
 Black Crow, based in Daytona Beach, Florida, won the first
round in March when the bankruptcy judge denied motions by
Stamford, Connecticut-based GECC to dismiss the case or allow
the lender to foreclose.  
 Black Crow says it spent almost three months in litigation
with GECC over financing, which the bankruptcy judge approved on
a final basis at the end of May. GECC appealed that order and
sought a stay pending appeal. GECC’s motions for stays were
denied in both the bankruptcy court and the federal district
court.  
 Bankruptcy law requires obtaining a stay pending appeal to
overturn financing approval. GECC therefore withdrew the
financing appeal this week, saying it was unlikely to be given
significant relief even if it won the appeal.  
 Black Crow wants so-called exclusivity extended by three
months, to Nov. 8.  
 Black Crow filed for Chapter 11 protection in January, two
days before a hearing in U.S. district court where GECC was
seeking appointment of a receiver following default on the term
loans and revolving credit. Black Crow’s stations are in five
markets in Florida, Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee.  
 In addition to the GECC debt, there is another $6 million
owing to unsecured creditors. Black Crow had revenue of $12.9
million in 2009, a 23 percent decline from 2008.  
 The case is In re Black Crow Media Group LLC, 10-00172,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  
 New Filing  
 Newly Built Se San Diego Hotel Files to Stop Bank  
 The owner of the  Se San Diego Hotel  in the city’s financial
district filed for Chapter 11 protection on June 25 to stop the
bank from having a receiver appointed.  
 The hotel open in December 2008, one year late and over
budget, according to court papers. The construction loan from
WestLB AG Bank matured in May 2009. Currently, $67 million is
owing to the lender, the hotel said.  
 The hotel has 184 room, a spa, restaurant and rooftop bar.
The project also has 23 unsold condominium units. The petition
says assets are worth less than $100 million while debt exceeds
$100 million.  
 The case is In re 5th Avenue Partners LLC, 10-18667, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  
 Prepack Coming  
 Medical Staffing Prepack Filing Deadline Now July 2  
 The deadline for  Medical Staffing Network Holdings Inc.  to
file a prepackaged Chapter 11 reorganization was moved back to
July 2 from June 28.  
 The Boca Raton, Florida-based provider of temporary nursing
services announced earlier this month that the plan will provide
that first-lien lenders owed $95.1 million buy the business in
exchange for debt. For details, click here for the June 16
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 In a prepackaged reorganization, the plan is negotiated
before the Chapter 11 filing, to shorten the time the company is
in bankruptcy court to as little as about four to six weeks.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Old GM Sells Plant to Fisker for Electric Car Making  
 Old  General Motors Corp ., now formally named Motors
Liquidation Co., was authorized by the bankruptcy judge
yesterday to sell a shuttered plant in Wilmington, Delaware, for
$20 million to Fisker Automotive Inc. for building plug-in
hybrid electric vehicles. For details on the sale, click here
and see the GM item in the June 10 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The Delaware plant wasn’t among those sold along with the
core business. Old GM received 10 percent of the stock of the
new company plus warrants for 15 percent. The warrants will have
value if the new company is profitable enough to raise the
company’s value to specified levels. New GM is 60.8 percent-
owned by the U.S. government. Old GM began the largest
manufacturing reorganization in history by filing under Chapter
11 on June 1, 2009. The sale was completed on July 10, 2009. GM
listed assets of $82.3 billion against debt totaling $172.8
billion.  
 The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Beazer Buys $6.45 Million in Lots from DBSI Trustee  
 The Chapter 11 trustee for DBSI Inc., once a seller and
servicer of fractional interests in commercial real estate, was
authorized this week to sell 232 lots in Maricopa Country,
Arizona, for $6.45 million to a subsidiary of  Beazer Homes USA
Inc.  The price worked out to $27,800 for each lot.  
 The examiner for DBSI called the company an “elaborate
shell game” operated like a Ponzi scheme. His report prompted
the bankruptcy judge to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee in
September. DBSI filed under Chapter 11 in November 2008 along
with almost 150 affiliates. Based in Meridian, Idaho, the
company claimed it managed real estate valued at more than $2.65
billion and raised $1.5 billion in capital over 29 years.  
 The case is In re DBSI Inc., 08-12687, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Pacific Ethanol Plants Implement Reorganization Plan  
 Four ethanol plants owned by Pacific Ethanol Inc.
implemented the reorganization plan yesterday that the Delaware
bankruptcy judge approved in a June 8 confirmation order. The
plan reduced debt by $290 million while giving the former parent
company Pacific Ethanol a 90-day option to buy as much as 25
percent of the reorganized company from the secured lenders for
$30 million. For details of the plan, click here for the June 9
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Pacific Ethanol wasn’t itself in
Chapter 11.  
 When the Chapter 11 case began, debt included $270 million
owing to the secured creditors on a term loan, revolving credit,
construction financing, and other liabilities.  
 The case is Pacific Ethanol Holding Co. LLC, 09-11713, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Bear Island Has $630,000 Operating Loss in May  
 Bear Island Paper Co., a U.S. subsidiary of Canada’s White
Birch Paper Co., reported a $630,000 operating loss in May on
revenue of $10.5 million. The net loss was the same as the
operating loss in the report filed with the bankruptcy court in
Richmond, Virginia.  
 Based in Nova Scotia, White Birch and its U.S. subsidiaries
filed for reorganization simultaneously in the U.S. and Canada
in February. White Birch is the second-largest newsprint maker
in North America. Secured liabilities include $438 million on a
first-lien term loan, $104 million on a second-lien term loan,
$50 million on an asset-backed revolving credit, and $51.5
million on swap agreements. Trade suppliers are owed $9.5
million. The companies had $667 million in sales during 2009,
with $125 million attributable to Bear Island. White Birch has
three pulp and paper mills in the province of Quebec. The Bear
Island plant is in Ashland, Virginia. White Birch is controlled
by Brant-Allen Industries, according to Bloomberg Data.  
 The case is In re Bear Island Paper Co., 10-31202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  
 Downgrade  
 Edison Mission Energy Lowered by Moody’s to B2 Corporate  
 Independent power producers Edison Mission Energy and
subsidiary Midwest Generation Co. received downgrades yesterday
from Moody’s Investors Service, following a ding issued this
time last year.  
 The new corporate rating is down one notch to B2, or one
level higher that the demotion issued in April by Standard &
Poor’s. Moody’s also moved the senior unsecured notes down one
peg to B3.  
 Moody’s based its action in part on “lower future
sustainable cash flow generation due to weaker operating margins
driven principally by low energy and capacity prices.”  
 The Irvine, California-based company owns or leases 10,072
megawatts of electric generating capacity, Moody’s said.  
 Daily Podcast  
 Lehman, Hamptons Papers, Holley Performance: Audio  
 A brewing battle over  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ,
newspapers on the East End of Long Island, CBGB and Holley
Performance are the topics discussed in the latest bankruptcy
podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To
listen, click here.  
 Advance Sheets  
 International Trade Proceedings Not Halted by Stay  
 Although begun by the owner of a patent, a proceeding
before the International Trade Commission to halt the
importation of goods that infringe patents is exempt from the
so-called automatic stay as an exercise by the government of its
policy or regulatory power, U.S. District Judge T.S. Ellis III
ruled on June 28 in reversing the bankruptcy court.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Robert G. Mayer  in Alexandria,
Virginia, ruled in February that proceedings in the ITC aren’t
police or regulatory actions and thus are automatically halted
when a defendant files for bankruptcy. He saw the automatic stay
as applicable because the patent holder, not the ITC, controlled
litigation and settlement.  
 Ellis disagreed with Mayer’s understanding of federal law
regarding the ITC. He saw the proceedings as initiated by the
agency and ultimately controlled by the government, thus making
ITC proceedings a police or regulatory action not barred by the
automatic stay.  
 To read about the bankruptcy court decision that was
reversed, click here for the Feb. 24, Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 The reversal in the district court is U.S. International
Trade Commission v. Jaffe, 10-367, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Virginia (Alexandria). The case in the bankruptcy
court that was reversed was In re Qimonda AG, 09-14766, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  
 Member of LLC is Insider for Preferences Liability  
 Someone who is a member of a limited liability company is
the equivalent of a director of a corporation and is thus an
insider, U.S. District Judge  Samuel Der-Yeghiayan  in Chicago
ruled on June 28.  
 The case involved a $200,000 payment made to an individual
more than 90 days and less than one year before a bankruptcy
filing. The bankruptcy trustee claimed that the transfer could
be recovered as a preference because the individual was a
“member” of the bankrupt LLC.  
 A preference is a payment on a stale unsecured debt.
Preferences can be recovered if made within 90 days of
bankruptcy. The recovery period extends to one year for payments
to insiders.  
 The individual argued that he didn’t fit within the
statutory definition of an insider. The bankruptcy court and the
district court disagreed. They both concluded that a member of
an LLC is the same as a director of a corporation. Thus, a
transfer within one year to a member of an LLC can be a
preference.  
 Der-Yeghiayan ruled that it wasn’t necessary in proving a
preference to show that a member of an LLC could control the
business. It was enough to be a member.  
 The case is Longview Aluminum LLC v. Brandt, 10-254, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        