-- Telefonica Extends $8.8 Billion Vivo Offer on Optimism EU to Disallow Veto
-- Paul Tobin
-- 2010-07-01T16:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/telefonica-extends-8-8-billion-vivo-offer-on-optimism-eu-to-disallow-veto.html

          
          
             Telefonica SA  extended its 7.15
billion-euro ($8.8 billion) offer for  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA ’s
stake in Brazil’s largest wireless operator on optimism the
European Union will void Portugal’s power of veto.  
 The offer will be valid until July 16, the Madrid-based
company said in a statement late yesterday. Portugal’s
government unexpectedly used its “golden share” to block the
deal, even after it was accepted by a majority of shareholders.  
 “It is an impediment to the free movement of capital,”
 Michel Barnier , the European Union financial services
commissioner, said in Brussels today in reference to the golden
share. It is “not justified,” Barnier said.  
 Portugal Telecom shares recouped most of their loss at the
end of trading yesterday, indicating some shareholders are
optimistic the purchase will go ahead. The European Court of
Justice rules on the veto power on July 8. Advocate General
 Paolo Mengozzi  recommended canceling the privileged rights in a
 non-binding  advisory opinion issued in December.  
 “Investors are waiting for the next ruling before taking
money off the table,” said  Amanda Purton , head of equity
research at Barclays Wealth in London.  
 Barnier said the commission would wait for the July 8
ruling and then make its own analysis of the steps to be taken.  
 Raised Bid  
 Telefonica raised its bid for Brasilcel NV, owner of 60
percent of Vivo Participacoes SA, for a second time hours before
the vote to convince shareholders to accept it. The use of the
golden share came after the bid had been accepted by 74 percent
of the shareholders present at their meeting in Lisbon.  
 Portugal Telecom shares rose 1.9 percent to 8.34 euros in
Lisbon trading today. The stock advanced as much as 8.8 percent
yesterday in anticipation of the deal’s approval and then
plummeted as much as 7.1 percent after the veto.  
 “The likelihood of Telefonica’s offer being successfully
concluded in the short term is high,” said  Teresa Martinho , an
analyst at Banif Investment Bank, in a note to clients today.  
 Telefonica said in a regulatory filing yesterday that the
use of the golden share to block the deal contravenes Portuguese
and European law. Portuguese minister  Jose Silva Pereira  said
today that the government is confident it has legal backing for
its decision.  
 “It’s in the best interest of Telefonica to wait,” said
 Ricardo Salgado , chief executive officer of Banco Espirito Santo
SA, Portugal Telecom’s second-largest shareholder, which voted
in favor of the bid. “Given Telefonica’s persistence to buy
Vivo, I think it may tend to keep its offer.”  
 Veto Power  
 The unprecedented use of special powers at Portugal
Telecom to impede a transaction comes after Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  last week asked state-owned lender Caixa Geral de
Depositos SA, with 7.3 percent of the company, to reject the
bid. Portugal Telecom had said the Vivo bid was not a “golden
share” issue.  
 “This offer did not account for the strategic interests
that Vivo represents for Portugal Telecom,” Socrates said
yesterday. “The golden share is there to be used when
necessary.”  
 The Portuguese government maintains power over the former
state monopoly by controlling 500 class “A” shares, which
include the right to name a third of the board and to veto
capital increases, bond issuances and dividend payments.  
 They also allow Portugal to block another phone company
from buying more than a 10 percent stake. Portugal had sold its
common shares in the Lisbon-based company by 2000.  
 Golden Share  
 “If there is a clear ruling that the golden share cannot
be used, I think Telefonica could bid again,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in London.  
 The latest bid values Vivo at about 11 times enterprise
value to  earnings  before taxes, interest, depreciation and
amortization, double the 5.72 average for the Brazilian
company’s peers, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Telefonica Chairman  Cesar Alierta  wants to combine Vivo’s
mobile-phone network with Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA, or
Telesp, the Spanish company’s fixed-line unit in Brazil.  
 Telefonica, which is up against rivals Vivendi SA and
America Movil, controlled by Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim , in
Brazil, is seeking to bolster Telesp, whose first-quarter sales
fell 1.4 percent in local-currency terms.  
 “The important thing is that the shareholders of Portugal
Telecom approved the deal,” said  Juan Carlos Acitores , who
helps oversee about $20 billion in assets at Ahorro Corporacion
in Madrid. “Now it’s a matter of time.”  
 Brazil Growth  
 Telefonica and Portugal Telecom have sought growth in
Brazil as markets at home cooled. Vivo had 30 percent of
Brazil’s 179 million wireless subscriptions at the end of March,
according to Anatel, the country’s phone regulator.  
 European regulators may object to using the golden share
especially in a deal outside of Europe, said  Corne Zandbergen , a
senior analyst at Robeco Asset Management in Rotterdam.  
 “I would doubt whether the EU would be happy with the use
of the golden share in this particular situation where it’s
concerning an acquisition in Brazil,” said Zandbergen.  
 Portugal Telecom has relied on Brazil for growth, with
sales from the Latin American country rising 27 percent in the
first quarter, while revenue at home fell 3.6 percent. Since
2006, Vivo has overtaken the fixed-line unit as the company’s
 biggest revenue contributor , accounting for half of sales in
the first quarter.  
 Portugal Telecom this month said it can provide “no
assurance” that “similar value will be delivered to
shareholders for Vivo” should the bid fail.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net ;
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        