-- Temasek's Mapletree Investments Posts 87% Profit Jump, Forecasts Growth
-- Joyce Koh
-- 2010-06-30T12:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/temasek-s-mapletree-investments-posts-87-profit-jump-forecasts-growth.html

          
          
             (Corrects currency denomination of Mapletree India China
fund in 19th paragraph.)  
 Mapletree Investments Pte , the real
estate unit of Singapore’s state investment firm  Temasek
Holdings Pte , posted an 87 percent surge in full-year profit and
said it plans to almost double assets in five years.  
 Net income rose to S$393.8 million ($281 million) in the
year ended March 31 from S$210.3 million the previous year,
helped by new developments and gains from the increased value of
its holdings, the Singapore-based company said at a press
briefing in the city-state today. Total assets under management
climbed 9 percent to S$12.9 billion in the year.  
 “In a nutshell what the new business plan entails is
doubling up, gearing up our business by two times in terms of
size,”  Hiew Yoon Khong , Mapletree’s chief executive officer,
said at the briefing. “Other performance metrics that we are
targeting such as profitability and fee income we expect to
scale up considerably in the next four to five years.”  
 Mapletree’s shift since 2004 to an Asia-focused private-
equity growth model from a Singapore-based traditional real
estate firm has spurred growth. The company aims to almost
double assets under management to S$25 billion in five years,
with a focus on China, India and Vietnam, Hiew said today.  
 Assets  
 Mapletree owns about S$6.8 billion of real estate assets
including office, logistics, industrial business park and retail
properties, up from S$6.2 billion the previous year. It owns the
building that houses the private banking global support center
of Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit, as well as
VivoCity, Singapore’s largest mall.  
 It also manages S$6.1 billion of third-party assets across
Asia, an increase from S$5.6 billion a year earlier. Mapletree
aims to increase the portion of third-party assets it manages to
at least three times of what it owns, Hiew said.  
 Industrial rents in Singapore rose in the second quarter
for the first time in seven quarters, according to property
agency DTZ Holdings Plc. Average monthly gross rents for first-
storey private industrial space, or industrial space for rent on
the first floor, rose 2.6 percent from the previous quarter,
according to DTZ.  
 “Things are getting better in the industrial space, things
are on the upside and on a growth path, barring any European
crisis,” said Dominic Peters, Singapore-based director of
industrial services at Savills Plc. “The reception should be
good from investors.”  
 New Trusts  
 Revenue increased to S$453.5 million in the year from
S$444.9 million the previous year. Mapletree, which currently
manages two real estate investment trusts, plans to launch more
such funds, including industrial and property trusts, Hiew said.  
 The company may list Mapletree Industrial Trust, which has
assets of S$1.73 billion, this year, Chief Financial Officer
 Wong Mun Hoong  said at the press meeting.  
 The share sale may raise about S$750 million, CEO Hiew said.
The trust will be Shariah-compliant, which will help attract
Middle East investors seeking stable yields, he said.  
 Mapletree Industrial Trust, whose assets include high-rise
factories and business parks, had net income of S$78.9 million
during the last fiscal year, compared with a net loss of S$13.2
million a year earlier, according to the firm.  
 The Temasek unit said it planned to list a trust in
Singapore that will hold its commercial properties, anchored by
VivoCity, after selling shares in its industrial trust. The firm
is still deciding on the other assets that will be included in
the planned Mapletree Commercial Trust and there’s “still quite
a lot of work” before any listing, CEO Hiew said.  
 Considering IPO  
 Mapletree also is considering an initial public offering
after the listing of the industrial and commercial trusts, Hiew
said.  
 “It’s always at the back of our mind,” he said. “It’s
more sensible to profile ourselves better before we jump into
the public space.”  
 The IPO, which may take place in the next two years, “can
be fairly big,” he said, without providing further details. The
firm’s net asset value stands at S$5.1 billion.  
 The firm’s return on invested equity increased to 8 percent
from 7.2 percent the previous financial year.  
 Mapletree plans to set up private funds focusing on
investing in China and Vietnam within the next two years, Chief
Investment Officer  Chua Tiow Chye  said.  
 It will start the China fund once it has fully invested the
portion allocated to the country in the existing $1.2 billion
Mapletree India China Fund. The size of the China fund will be
around $500 million, while the Vietnam fund will be around $300
million to $500 million, according to the firm.  
 The main markets remain China, India and Vietnam,
especially for commercial, residential and retail businesses,
the CEO said. For logistics, the company will continue to be
“very active” in acquisitions, particularly in Japan.  
 Mapletree will expand its industrial portfolio “quite
significantly” outside Singapore, particularly in China and
Japan, Hiew said.  
 The company is “quite optimistic” about Singapore’s
office market because of the economic growth outlook in the next
three years, Hiew said. “We will fight for leadership in this
particular segment.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net 
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        