-- Emerging-Market Stocks Head for Worst Quarterly Drop Since December 2008
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-06-30T21:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/emerging-market-stocks-slide-to-three-week-low-on-u-s-economic-concerns.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell, driving
the benchmark index to its lowest level in more than two weeks,
after a slump in U.S. consumer confidence fueled concern the
global recovery is faltering.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  declined 0.7 percent to
917.99 by 5 p.m. in New York and was fell to the lowest close
since June 11. The gauge has slid 9.1 percent in the past three
months and had the worst quarterly performance since December
2008. Benchmark gauges in Taiwan, South Korea, Russia and South
Africa also declined.  
 Shares extended a global rout as an unexpected drop in U.S.
consumer confidence added to concern sparked by the downward
revision of an economic indicator for China. President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. economy faces “headwinds” from Europe’s
debt crisis, while reports today and tomorrow may show gains in
U.S. business activity and Chinese manufacturing are moderating.  
 “Global economic growth in a post-crisis world is going to
be much slower than it was before and all riskier assets are
suffering as a consequence,” said  Dmitry Sentchoukov , an
emerging-markets strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “The
levels of credit extension that drove growth in the developed
world before the financial crisis have fallen off dramatically
and that has negative implications for global growth and in turn
for emerging market assets.”  
 Developing-nations stocks extended declines today after
Spain’s top credit ranking was placed on review for a possible
downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
“deteriorating” growth prospects and the challenges the
government faces to achieve its fiscal targets.  
 China  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, fell to the lowest in more than 14
months, sliding 1.2 percent to close at 2,398.37. That’s the
lowest value since April 9, 2009. The  CSI 300 Index  slid 1.1
percent to 2,563.07.  
 Jiangxi Copper Co.  and Zhuzhou Smelter Group Co. led
declines among raw-material producers after metal prices
retreated.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. , the second-largest
developer by market value, dropped 3.8 percent.  China Cosco
Holdings Co. , the world’s biggest operator of dry-bulk ships,
slid 1 percent on concern shrinking global trade will reduce
demand for marine transport.  
 “With the numbers coming in now, our view is that the
recovery isn’t as strong as expected,” said  Choo Swee Kee , who
manages about $202 million as chief investment officer at TA
Investment Management Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “The negative
reaction in the market is due to sentiment; if it does correct
sharply, it’s a very good opportunity to pick up stocks.”  
 The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 23 percent in the last
three months, the  biggest loss  since the second quarter of 2008,
as policy makers tightened rules for the property market and
concern grew that Europe’s austerity measures will hurt demand
in China’s largest export destination. The equity index is the
world’s third-worst performer this year, down 27 percent.  
 Petrobras Deal  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  fell 1.7 percent, completing
its first  quarterly loss  since the end of 2008, after Moody’s
Investors Service said it may cut Spain’s credit rating,
renewing concern the global economic recovery will falter.  
 Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, led
declines.  BRF Brasil Foods SA , the world’s biggest poultry
exporter, slid the most in a year after a government agency
recommended restrictions on the takeover of a rival.  
 Taiwan’s  Taiex index  fell 1.3 percent to the lowest close
since June 11. Taiwanese stocks fell almost 11 percent in the
first half, retreating from a 78 percent rally last year. South
Korea’s Kospi index fell 0.6 percent, paring the year-to-date
gain to 0.9 percent.  
 South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index  fell for a
second day, losing 1.7. The measure, in which commodity stocks
account for more than 40 percent of the weighting, has lost 8.6
percent in the past three months, the first quarterly decline
since March 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        