-- Merkel's Presidential Candidate Wulff Wins in Third-Round Vote
-- Brian Parkin
-- 2010-06-30T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/merkel-s-candidate-wulff-wins-german-presidential-election-in-third-round.html

          
          
             Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s candidate
for the German presidency,  Christian Wulff , was elected in a
third round of voting, as delegates used the first two secret
ballots to take a swipe at her coalition.  
 The vote by the 1,244-member assembly of federal lawmakers
and state delegates, stretching over more than eight hours
yesterday, marks “a serious shot across the bow for Merkel,”
said Richard Stoess, a political scientist at the Free
University in Berlin. While the result won’t bring down the
government, it’s “a disaster for her image and her standing,
given the overwhelming majority the coalition has in the
assembly.”  
 Wulff, 51, the prime minister of  Lower Saxony  and a deputy
leader of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party, got 625
votes to 494 votes for  Joachim Gauck , 70, a pro-democracy
activist and pastor from former East Germany nominated by the
opposition Social Democrats and Greens. While Merkel commands a
21-seat majority in the assembly convened to elect the largely
ceremonial president, Wulff failed to muster enough votes in two
earlier rounds of voting.  
 Delegates who snubbed Merkel’s pick “very likely weren’t
just those who simply preferred Gauck, but included dissenters
determined to take a swipe in secret at her record in office,”
 Hans-Juergen Hoffmann , head of Berlin-based pollster Psephos,
said by phone. “It shows there’s serious disgruntlement in the
ranks of the coalition over her leadership.”  
 The election, called after the surprise resignation last
month of the incumbent,  Horst Koehler , was a test of Merkel’s
authority after coalition bickering over policies from health
care to tax cuts sapped public backing for the government as it
grapples with Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Economic Recovery  
 The political setbacks for Merkel contrast with the rebound
of Europe’s biggest economy from recession. German  unemployment 
fell for a 12th month in June, the Federal Labor Agency said
yesterday.  Exports  are booming and the Ifo business-climate
index rose to its highest in two years.  The DAX Index  is one of
two euro-area equity benchmarks to avoid a decline this year.  
 “Merkel needs a breather after the euro shock and the
departure of senior members of her party from office, including
the president,” Peter Matuschek, head of political analysis at
the Forsa polling company, said in an interview. “There are
signs here and there that she’ll get it as the political caste
in Berlin eases into the summer recess and the classic
indicators on which the government leans --  unemployment ,
exports, consumer confidence -- start to brighten.”  
 Historic Precedents  
 Prior to Wulff, just two of the 13 German  presidential
elections  since 1949 have gone to three rounds, the last time in
1994. The government-backed candidate won in all cases. While
the first two rounds require the winner to garner a majority of
the total votes cast, the rules change in the third round, with
the candidate getting the most votes winning.  
 The benchmark  DAX Index  fell after the first-round vote
failed to yield a winner before rebounding to gain 0.2 percent
to 5965.52.  
 Wulff’s failure to win in the first two rounds was “a
clear expression of growing dissatisfaction in the government,”
 Thorsten Polleit , the chief economist for Germany at Barclays
Capital, said in a note.  
 A candidate backed by the Left Party,  Lukrezia  Jochimsen,
didn’t contest the third round. A far-right candidate, Frank
Rennicke, also retired after winning 3 votes at each of the
first two rounds.  
 “To all those who made a different choice today, I want to
pay my respect,” Wulff said in a speech after his election. “I
will do my best to meet your expectations too.”  
 Wulff, who is married with one daughter and a son, will be
sworn in tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Merkel’s Presidential Candidate Wulff Wins in Third-Round  
                       
                         
                           Sean Gallup/Getty Images 
                         
                         Chancellor Angela Merkel’s candidate for the German presidency, Christian Wulff, was elected in a third round of voting. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chancellor Angela Merkel’s candidate for the German presidency, Christian Wulff, was elected in a third round of voting. Photographer: Sean Gallup/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
