-- Merrill Sees Flaws in `Not-So-Leading' China Indicator After Stocks Tumble
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-06-30T08:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/merrill-sees-flaws-in-not-so-leading-china-indicator-after-stocks-tumble.html

          
          
             Bank of America-Merrill Lynch said
it sees flaws in the leading index for China that was revised
yesterday, sending stocks tumbling around the world.  
 The Conference Board’s index “relies too much on low-
quality monthly numbers,” Hong Kong-based economist  Lu Ting 
wrote in a note today, calling it a “not-so-leading” indicator.  
 The Conference Board fed concern that the global recovery
is faltering by  correcting  the most recent figure, released this
month, to show a smaller gain in the index in April. The New
York-based research group is seeking to establish the
credibility of the measure, introduced in May.  
 “We welcome on-going dialogue with the analytical
community here on how to deal with Chinese data,”  William Adams ,
a Beijing-based resident economist for the board, said by phone
today. “We believe in our index and we stand by this,” he said.  
 After the correction, caused by a calculation error, the
measure rose 0.3 percent, the smallest increase in five months.
The Conference Board previously said the figure was 1.7 percent.  
 The index is based on data from the central bank and the
statistics bureau relating to loans, raw-material supplies,
export orders, floor-space starts, consumer expectations, and
supplier deliveries.  
 Economist’s Concerns  
 The measure, published after four years of development, is
designed to capture the outlook over the coming six months. It
would have signaled China’s  growth  slowdown in 2008 and the
recession of the late 1980s, Adams said previously.  
 Lu said he is concerned that data is of low quality, the
composition of the index -- especially the inclusion of the
measure of the speed of deliveries from suppliers -- is flawed,
and seasonal adjustment may not be meaningful.  
 “Constructing leading indicators for China should always
be encouraged, but seemingly sophisticated techniques, even if
they have been proved useful somewhere else, can add little
value if they use an inappropriate data set with low quality,”
the Merrill economist said.  
 Brian Jackson, an emerging-markets strategist in Hong Kong
at Royal Bank of Canada, said yesterday that while the
Conference Board’s index is dated, as other data have already
been released for May, it provides a “useful” composite of
indicators for the nation’s economy.  
 China’s next economic release is a manufacturing index, due
tomorrow, which is likely to show slower growth, according to a
 survey  of economists by Bloomberg News. The  Shanghai Composite
Index  of stocks fell 1.2 percent today to close at a 14-month
low.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        