-- Testosterone Gel Linked to Heart Problems in Frail, Older Men in Study
-- Ellen Gibson
-- 2010-06-30T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/testosterone-gel-linked-to-heart-problems-in-frail-older-men-in-study.html

          
          
             More than one-fifth of patients
using a testosterone gel sold by  Auxilium Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
developed heart problems in a study of mobility-impaired men
aged 65 and older.  
 The study found that 23 of 106, or 22 percent, of men
getting the gel, Testim, had heart-related side effects such as
chest pain, heart attack, stroke, or elevated blood pressure,
according to a report published today in the  New England Journal
of Medicine . Of the 103 men who got a placebo, just five, or 5
percent, had similar adverse effects, the researchers at Boston
University Medical Center found.  
 Testosterone supplements have been shown to boost muscle
mass and strength in aging men, the report said. This trial was
designed to see if Testim could improve physical function in men
with limited mobility. While the testosterone group did show
improvement in their ability to climb stairs and do leg presses,
the study was halted early because of concern that the drug may
be linked to cardiovascular problems.  
 “Physicians and patients, especially older men, should
consider this study’s findings on adverse effects along with
other information on the risks and benefits of testosterone
therapy,” the study authors said in a statement. They urged
further research “to clarify the safety issues raised by this
trial.”  
 Testim had worldwide revenue of $160.5 million last year,
98 percent of the company’s total, according to a regulatory
filing. Auxilium rose 65 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $23.50 in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading at 4 p.m. New York time.
The stock has declined 25 percent in the last 12 months.  
 Low Testosterone  
 Testim, a skin gel, was approved in October 2002 as a
testosterone replacement therapy for men with  hypogonadism , a
condition in which the body doesn’t produce enough of the
hormone. Hypogonadism can cause fatigue, infertility, decreased
sex drive and loss of bone mass. Testim competes with Androgel,
sold by Abbott Park, Illinois-based  Abbott Laboratories .  
 The study, which was discontinued in December, was funded
by a grant to  Shalender Bhasin , the chief of endocrinology at
Boston Medical Center, from the National Institute on Aging,
part of the U.S. National Institutes of Health. Auxilium donated
the product and wasn’t involved in the study design or
execution, according to the report.  
 Twice as many men in the Testim group had complications
requiring medical evaluations compared with the placebo group,
according to the report. Ten men had full-blown cardiac events,
including two confirmed heart attacks and one death.  
 Bhasin and his co-authors said aspects of this study make
it difficult to draw conclusions about the safety of Testim. The
main limitations they cited were the small size of the clinical
trial and the nature of the population being studied.  
 Frail Men  
 Patients in the study were frail, had higher rates of
chronic disease than the general population, and had an average
age of 74, according to the study. In contrast, 95 percent of
patients getting Testim in the real world are under 75, said
Eboo Versi, vice president of drug safety and medical affairs of
Malvern, Pennsylvania-based  Auxilium .  
 Another factor that makes the findings not apply to other
men is that some study participants were given 15 grams of
Testim a day, while the medicine’s label recommends starting
patients on 5 grams and going up to 10 grams only if needed.
That dosing was “totally off label,” Versi said in a telephone
interview today.  
 Overall in the study, 16 men received the highest dose or
15 grams of testosterone, while 61 received 10 grams and 29
received 5 grams, according to the journal report.  
 Earlier Research  
 Another  study  of testosterone gel in men over 65, published
online Jan. 8 in the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology &
Metabolism, found no significant difference in cardiac events
between the treatment group and those who got a placebo gel.
Auxilium analyzed its Testim registration studies and didn’t
find any increased risk of cardiovascular events, Versi said.  
 “We obviously want to get ahold of this data and we will
analyze it and share with the FDA our findings,” he said. “If
there was a concern, we’d very much want to ensure we have a
change in our label, but for now this study is looking like the
odd man out.”  
 Another study published in the same journal on June 16
found that low testosterone levels in older men are less common
than doctors previously thought, with only 2 percent of men from
40 to 80 suffering from hypogonadism.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 Egibson9@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        