-- EU Governments Block Lawmakers' Proposal to Cap Bank Bonuses at Half Pay
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-06-30T20:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/eu-members-block-lawmakers-proposal-to-curb-bankers-bonuses-to-half-pay.html

          
          
             European Union governments blocked
plans by some EU Parliament lawmakers to limit bankers’ bonuses
to half their total pay during talks to set tougher capital and
remuneration rules for lenders.  
 Directors of banks that received public money will be
forced to justify their bonuses and lenders will have to report
the number of people earning more than 1 million euros ($1.2
million) to regulators, under the measures approved after
discussions between the governments of the 27 EU member states
and the Parliament.  
 “The risk if we just say bonuses should be no more than 50
percent” is that “you just get paid higher salaries,”  Vicky Ford , a British member of the Parliament, said in a telephone
interview today.  
 Lawmakers around the world have blamed bonuses for the
excessive risk-taking that contributed to the worst financial
crisis since World War II. The bonus measures are part of
legislation to force banks to hold more capital against their
trading books, proposed by last year by the  European Commission .  
 Members of the Parliament’s Economic and Monetary Affairs
Committee had voted for the stricter controls of bonuses.  
 Senior managers and traders will be forced to defer at
least 50 percent of their bonus for a minimum of three years and
no more than 30 percent can be paid in cash, under the measures.  
 ‘Dangerous’ Behavior  
 “These rules will help put an end to the dangerous short-
term behavior we have seen,” said  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman
for Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier . “The
commission is now looking at similar rules for the rest of the
financial sector.”  
 All the members of the European Parliament will vote on the
proposals next week, with the law scheduled to take effect in
the different member states at the start of next year.  
 Banks will be required to hold “approximately three times
as much capital against trading books as before the economic
crisis,” a group of Parliament members known as the  European
Conservatives and Reformists  said in an e-mailed statement
today.  
 “Many banks are already taking a much more conservative
approach to their trading activities and these proposals will
ensure they compete on a more level playing field,” Ford said.  
 Stronger capital requirements will make banks “more
resistant and will improve market confidence,” Hughes said in
the commission statement.  
 British Bankers’ Association Chief Executive Officer  Angela Knight  said remuneration proposals agreed by the European Union
today have, “in the main,” already been implemented in the
U.K.  
 “The U.K. was the only country that took these steps and
so the main consequence of this European decision is that other
European countries will now have to follow suit,” Knight said
in an e-mailed statement, responding to publication of a second
package of amendments to the EU capital requirements directive.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        