-- Europe Inflation Slows More Than Economists Forecast as Energy Prices Drop
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-06-30T09:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/european-inflation-slows-more-than-forecast-in-june-as-energy-prices-drop.html

          
          
             European inflation slowed more than
economists estimated in June as energy prices receded and
companies continued to cut costs.  
 Euro-area  consumer prices  rose 1.4 percent from a year
earlier after increasing 1.6 percent in May, the European Union
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had
forecast inflation to slow to 1.5 percent this month, according
to the median of 30 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . The
rate in May was the fastest since December 2008.  
 European companies continue to reduce costs and eliminate
jobs to shore up earnings battered by the region’s worst
recession in six decades. While a drop in the euro against the
dollar has made imported goods more expensive, European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on June 10 that
inflation rates should remain “moderate overall.”  
 Today’s report “reinforces the belief that while the euro-
zone economy currently faces significant problems, inflation is
not one of them,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist
at IHS Global Insight in London. The earlier acceleration in
price increases “was very much due to higher energy prices and
these appear to have waned in June. Meanwhile, underlying
inflationary pressures still seem muted.  
 Crude-oil prices have declined 4 percent this year.  
 Euro-area  core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy, held at 0.8 percent in May. Today’s inflation
report is an initial estimate and the statistics office will
release a breakdown including the core rate for June on July 14.  
 German Inflation  
 The euro was higher against the dollar after today’s
inflation data, trading at $1.2251 at 10:30 a.m. in London, up
0.5 percent on the day.  
 In Germany, Europe’s largest economy,  inflation  slowed more
than economists forecast in June, data showed on June 28. German
consumer prices rose 0.8 percent from a year earlier after a 1.2
percent gain in the previous month.  
 At the same time, German  unemployment  fell for a 12th month
in June, data showed today, as the economy shows signs of
evading the worst of the sovereign debt crisis.  
 Across the euro region, the jobless rate probably held at
10.1 percent in May, the highest in almost 12 years, according
to a Bloomberg survey of economists. The statistics office will
release the euro-area unemployment report on July 2.  
 Metro AG , the world’s third-largest retailer, said on June
18 that it will close three German wholesale stores after
failing to turn them around. The measures will lead to 900 job
cuts, the Dusseldorf, Germany-based company said.  
 The ECB  said earlier this month that inflation may average
around 1.5 percent this year and around 1.6 percent in 2011. The
euro-area economy will expand 1 percent in 2010 and around 1.2
percent next year, the Frankfurt-based central bank forecast.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Dublin at 
 smeier@bloombert.net   
          
          


  


        