-- European Banks Not Out of the Woods Yet After ECB Tender, Investors Say
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-07-01T10:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/european-banks-not-out-of-the-woods-yet-after-ecb-tender-investors-say.html

          
          
             European banks are still dependent on
life-support from the region’s central bank even after asking it
for less money than analysts estimated.  
 Greece’s  Piraeus Bank SA  and Spain’s  Banco Santander SA 
were among bank stocks that rose after the European Central Bank
said yesterday it lent firms 131.9 billion euros ($161 billion)
for three months, less than the 200 billion euros analysts
estimated.  
 The ECB, which didn’t disclose the identities of the 171
borrowers, is trying to wean the region’s lenders off the
unprecedented support it provided in the wake of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008. Financial firms have been wary
of lending to each other after Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
fueled concern that governments including Greece, Portugal and
Spain may struggle to refinance their debts.  
 “We’re not out of the woods yet,” said  Florian Esterer ,
who helps manage about $46 billion at Zurich-based Swisscanto
Asset Management. “The cajas, the Greeks and maybe the
Landesbanken have problems getting short-term refinancing. That
is why the ECB is still providing funding.”  
 Germany’s state-owned lenders, or Landesbanken, are under
scrutiny after posting more than $34 billion in losses and
writedowns during the credit crisis. As many as 38 of Spain’s 45
savings banks, or cajas, are merging as regulators push them to
cut costs and reduce their reliance on wholesale funding.  
 Bank  shares  rose on the ECB’s announcement, described by
Barclays Plc analyst  Simon Samuels  as a litmus test for the
health of the region’s banks. Banco Santander, Spain’s biggest
bank, advanced 3.5 percent to 8.7 euros, while Piraeus, Greece’s
fourth-biggest lender, climbed 3.9 percent to 3.49 euros in
Athens trading.  
 ‘Calms Nerves’  
 “It’s an event that calms nerves but doesn’t change the
picture at all,” said  Juergen Lanzer  who helps manage about
$230 billion at Schroders Plc. “Some of the Spanish,
Portuguese, Greek and Irish banks still have sizeable balance
sheets that they would struggle to refinance without the ECB.”  
 The banks that borrowed money from the ECB yesterday paid
an interest rate of 1 percent, 24 basis points more than the
London interbank offered rate for three-month euro money. Banks
need today to repay 442 billion euros of 12-month loans they
received in June last year. The ECB charged them 1 percent
interest, a third less than the London interbank offered rate
for 12-month euro money at the time.  
 Eliminating the loans was part of the ECB’s long-term exit
strategy and the bank has taken “every  precaution” to avoid a
liquidity squeeze, Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  said
in Vienna this week.  
 ‘Encouraging Sign’  
 While the ECB no longer offers banks year-long loans, the
debt crisis has forced it to extend some of its other non-
standard measures and to start buying the bonds of big-deficit
governments. The ECB today lent 78 banks a further 111.2 billion
euros in six-day funds and will continue with its regular one-
week refinancing operation on July 6.  
 Yesterday’s tender results were an “encouraging sign”
about the health of European banks before regulators publish the
results of stress tests on the region’s biggest lenders,  Peter Westaway , chief economist at Nomura International Plc in London
and a former Bank of England official, wrote in a note to
clients yesterday.  
 ‘Good Signal’  
 “This is a very good signal of the health of Europe’s
banks,” said  Jaap Meijer , a London-based analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. “It shows that they need less funding than had
been feared. Of course at some point the banking system will
have to fund itself entirely. That is still a few months away.”  
 At last year’s auction, healthy banks borrowed money from
the ECB at below market rates and bought higher-yielding
government bonds, allowing them to profit from so-called carry
trades. Today’s market conditions make the trades unprofitable,
said  Andrew Lim , an analyst at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP.  
 “Market rates are lower than the ones being offered at the
tender so it’s a bit silly to access that carry trade when you
can access funding cheaper in the market,” Lim said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet. Photographer: Victor Sokolowicz/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
