-- European Stocks Fall on Weaker-Than-Forecast U.S. Jobs Report; Rio Slides
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-06-30T15:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/european-stock-index-futures-decline-france-telecom-astrazeneca-may-move.html

          
          
             European stocks  slid after a private
report showed U.S. companies added fewer jobs than forecast this
month, overshadowing a European Central Bank loan tender that
indicated the region’s lenders may be becoming less reliant on
central bank funding.  
 Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  led basic-resource
shares lower amid concern about the strength of the recovery in
the U.S., the world’s largest economy. Tesco Plc paced a decline
by retailers as a report showed U.K. consumer confidence fell to
a six-month low.  Banco Santander SA  and Credit Agricole SA
surged more than 3 percent as European banks sought less funding
from the ECB than economists had forecast.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.2 percent to 243.32, the
sixth decline in seven days. The gauge has fallen 7.8 percent
since the end of March, its first quarterly drop since the rally
in global equities began in March 2009, on concern that Europe’s
debt crisis may derail the economic recovery.  
 “There are just too many uncertainties involved in the
world economic outlook right now to recommend buying on the
dips,”  Peter Dixon , global equities economist at Commerzbank AG
in London, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview. “My confidence
in the market right now is fairly limited. There are an awful
lot of problems out there that could go wrong. The wall of worry
is with us and it’s getting bigger by the week.”  
 Benchmark Indexes  
 National benchmark indexes gained in 11 of the 18 western
European markets today. Germany’s  DAX  rose 0.2 percent and
France’s CAC 40 climbed 0.3 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 was
little changed.  
 Basic-resource companies on the Stoxx 600 declined 2.6
percent, the biggest drop of all 19  industry groups . Rio Tinto,
the world’s third largest economy, slid 2.6 percent to 2,968.5
pence. BHP Billiton retreated 1 percent to 1,754.5 pence.  
 Companies in the U.S. added fewer workers in June than
forecast, according to data from ADP Employer Services. The
13,000 gain missed the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg for an increase of 60,000. Some investors watch the
ADP report for indications on the U.S. labor market before the
monthly release on U.S. non-farm payrolls, which is due July 2.  
 Tesco, Britain’s biggest retailer, fell 2.5 percent to
380.05 pence as Citigroup Inc., which has a “sell”
recommendation on the shares, reduced its  price  estimate to 350
pence from 400 pence. Debenhams Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest
department-store chain, dropped 3.2 percent to 53 pence.  
 Consumer Sentiment  
 An index of U.K. consumer sentiment declined to minus 19 in
June as Britons became more pessimistic about the economic
outlook in the face of planned government spending cuts,
according to data from market research company GfK NOP.  
 Verbund AG , Austria’s biggest utility, sank 6.1 percent to
25.16 euros after announcing it will sell shares worth as much
as 1 billion euros ($1.23 billion).  
 Neste Oil Oyj declined 2.7 percent to 11.95 euros after
Morgan Stanley downgraded the shares to “underweight” from
“equal weight,” saying shares of Finland’s only refiner are
“already fully valued.”  
 Stocks continued declining today after yesterday having
dropped on concern over weakening growth in China and a slump in
U.S. consumer confidence, dragging the Stoxx 600’s valuation
near to the lowest level since 2008, according to Bloomberg
data.  Bob Parker , a London-based senior adviser to Credit Suisse
Asset Management which oversees about $414 billion, said these
concerns are being “well discounted in market prices.”  
 ‘Slowly Reverse’  
 “The overall theme for the second half of the year is
that these market fears are going to slowly reverse,” Parker 
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “You’re going to see
money going back into equity markets. Valuations are now looking
cheap relative to back in March or April.”  
 Bank shares limited declines in the Stoxx 600 today after
an ECB loan tender attracted less interest than forecast.  
 Santander, Spain’s biggest bank, climbed 3.5 percent to
8.74 euros and Credit Agricole advanced 3.4 percent to 8.64
euros. Greece’s Piraeus Bank SA rose 3.9 percent to 3.49 euros.  
 The ECB said it will lend banks 131.9 billion euros for
three months as a landmark yearlong loan expires tomorrow.
Economists had expected lenders to seek 200 billion euros,
according to the median of seven estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  
 ‘Less Stress’  
 “It’s good news as it’s a surprise that there is less
stress around than had been expected,” said  Graham Bishop , a
pan-European equity strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in London. “From a fundamental perspective we are positive
and this supports our view.” He forecasts the Stoxx 600 will
climb to 275 by the end of 2010.  
 AstraZeneca Plc jumped the most since November 2008,
climbing 7.5 percent to 3,169 pence. The U.K.’s  second-largest
drugmaker  won a U.S. court ruling that will help prevent the
sale of lower-cost copies of its cholesterol medicine Crestor
until 2016.  
 HMV Group Plc surged 11 percent to 63 pence as the music
and DVD retailer said full-year profit rose 11 percent as it
sold more Blu-ray DVDs in its home U.K. and Irish markets.  
 BP Plc, which is battling the worst oil spill in U.S.
history, rebounded 5.3 percent from yesterday 14-year low to
318.9 pence after the first hurricane of the season headed away
from the leak.  Fred Lucas , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
London, yesterday wrote that Exxon Mobil Corp. or Royal Dutch
Shell Plc could consider offering to buy BP at a premium to the
current price.  
 “Investor expectations of BP’s ultimate bill appear overly
pessimistic,” wrote Societe Generale SA in a note today as they
reiterated a “buy” recommendation. “In our view, a bid by a
competitor is unlikely in the medium term due to the still low
visibility on BP’s ultimate spill costs and antimonopoly
issues.”  
 Portugal Telecom SGPS SA slid 1.5 percent to 8.18 euros
after the Portuguese government used its veto power to block
Telefonica SA’s 7.15 billion-euro ($8.72 billion) bid for
Portugal Telecom’s stake in Brazil’s largest mobile-phone
company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        