-- Former SocGen Investment-Bank Head Mustier Fined in Insider-Trading Case
-- Heather Smith
-- 2010-06-30T17:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/ex-socgen-investment-banking-chief-mustier-fined-by-france-in-insider-case.html

          
          
             Former  Societe Generale SA 
investment banking chief  Jean-Pierre Mustier , who led the
division where  Jerome Kerviel  worked, was fined 100,000 euros
($122,900) by France for selling shares of the bank before it
announced losses tied subprime mortgages.  
 Mustier has been under investigation since January 2008,
when the Autorite des Marches Financiers began reviewing insider
sales that preceded the Jan. 24, 2008, revelation of subprime
losses and the 4.9 billion-euro trading loss suffered after
unwinding bets placed by former trader Kerviel.  
 “The level of Mr. Jean-Pierre Mustier’s responsibilities
imposed on him” the requirement to know not to sell the shares
at that time, the AMF said in  a statement  on its website today.  
 Mustier, 49, testified at Kerviel’s trial earlier this
month, telling the court that he expected to be cleared by the
AMF. The executive quit his post in August after investigators
notified him they had recommended he face punishment for the
trades, doing so “in the interest of the group,” according to
a statement by the bank. There is no allegation the sales were
based on knowledge of Kerviel’s trades, of which Mustier said
during the trial he was entirely ignorant.  
 “Determined to defend his honor and to have his innocence
recognized, Mr. Jean-Pierre Mustier is going to file an appeal
against this decision,” his lawyer,  Jean Veil , said in an e-
mailed statement, adding the enforcement committee member
handling the case recommended clearing Mustier.  
 Director Cleared  
 Bank spokeswomen didn’t immediately respond to calls or e-
mails.  
 The AMF cleared  Robert Day , founder of Los Angeles-based
TCW Group Inc. and a former member of Societe Generale’s board,
of any wrongdoing.  
 Day “is very pleased that the AMF Commission has followed
the recommendation of its staff and dismissed all charges
against him,” according to a statement e-mailed by Day’s
spokesman  Josh Pekarsky . He “has maintained from the outset
that his share sales were appropriate.”  
 Mustier sold 6,000 shares in Societe Generale on Aug. 21,
2007, after the bank began an internal modeling system to
estimate losses related to the  subprime market .  
 “The installation, at the beginning of August, of this
model did not lead to any information” reported to the
financial markets before the Jan. 24 statement, the AMF said in
its report. With the modeling program, “it was possible to draw
a conclusion as to the possible effect on the share price.”  
 7,000 Shares  
 The regulator noted Mustier’s sale represented “only a
very minor part, 3 percent” of his overall equity portfolio,
which he liquidated at the same time, and that he retained 7,000
shares in the bank. Mustier said during the Kerviel trial that
the decision to sell off his shares was due to his observations
on the world economy.  
 An engineer by training, Mustier joined Societe Generale in
1987 in Paris as a stock options trader. He held senior
executive positions at the investment bank in Paris, Tokyo and
Hong Kong before becoming chief executive officer of the
corporate and investment bank in 2003.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        