-- Texas Ports Halt Vessel Boardings on Surge From Gulf of Mexico Hurricane
-- Leela Landress
-- 2010-06-30T19:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/texas-ports-halt-vessel-boardings-on-surge-from-gulf-of-mexico-hurricane.html

          
          
             Ports along the Texas coast closed
and ship pilots stopped boarding today as the storm surge from
Hurricane Alex reached 12 feet in some places and raised tides
along the coast.  
 Ship pilots in Galveston, 54 miles (87 kilometers) from
Houston, halted boarding as a storm surge of 10 to 12 feet was
reported at the Galveston Bay buoy and wind gusts of 35 knots
(40 mph) were recorded.  
 “The Galveston-Texas City pilots are not boarding ships,
but the port is open,” Cristina Galego, a spokeswoman for the
Galveston port, said today in a telephone interview.  
 Oil tanker lightering operations near Galveston, Texas, and
the Southwest Pass, the main deepwater entrance to the
Mississippi River, have been suspended because of rough seas
stirred by storms, according to  Mike Reardon , a Houston-based
vice president at freight derivatives broker Imarex.  
 Lightering involves discharging cargoes from large ships
into smaller vessels that are more suited to enter the
destination port.  
 Houston Traffic Closed  
 Houston ship pilots stopped boarding vessels at 11:50 a.m.
local time today and inbound and outbound traffic closed, the
U.S. Coast Guard said.  
 “There is an eight-foot storm surge and 30-mph winds at
our buoy offshore,”  Albert Hernandez , a U.S. Coast Guard watch
supervisor, said in a telephone interview early today.  
 The Matagorda ship channel and Port of Port O’Connor, 180
miles from Houston, closed because of deteriorating sea
conditions, said Captain David Adrian, an officer with the
Matagorda Bay Pilots.  
 “We have 20-knot winds and six-foot waves,” said Phillip
Lassiter, a petty officer with the U.S. Coast Guard. The ship
channel and port will remain closed today and it’s undecided
whether they will open to vessels tomorrow, Lassiter said.  
 The ports of Corpus Christi and Brownsville also closed
today, according to their representatives.  
 Ports along the northern Texas and Louisiana coastline
reported fewer interruptions.  
 The Sabine Pilots Association, which serves the ports of
Port Arthur and Beaumont, Texas, said operations were
uninterrupted in the ship channel.  
 “It is a little rougher than average but it hasn’t
hampered operations,” said Daniel Dubois, a dispatcher. The
pilots might halt boarding after dark today, he said.  
 Ship traffic and operations at Port Fourchon in Louisiana
have been unaffected by Hurricane Alex, according to Nicholas
Matherne, director of coastal energy and environment for the
Lafourche Parish Government.  
 The Louisiana Offshore Oil Port, which serves tankers in
deep water, halted offloading at 6:30 p.m. yesterday because of
rough seas,  Barb Hestermann , a port spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview. Deliveries are being made to customers from
storage and there are no supply disruptions, she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leela Landress  in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        