-- Fed Governor Duke Says Return to Pre-Crisis Lending Levels May Take Years
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-06-30T19:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/fed-governor-duke-says-return-to-pre-crisis-lending-levels-may-take-years.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Governor  Elizabeth Duke  said that while an improving U.S. economy will help reverse
a decline in credit, it may take several years for lending to
return to pre-crisis levels.  
 So far, the resumption of credit growth following the
recession has lagged behind all business cycles of the past 40
years except the 1990-91 recession, after which it took three
years for consumer credit to recover and almost nine years for
commercial real estate, Duke said in a speech to bankers in
Columbus, Ohio.  
 The Fed has held its target interest rate at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008 to lower borrowing costs and help
the economy recover. Even with the record-low interest rates,
loans held by commercial banks fell by about 5 percent in 2009,
Duke said. The central bank repeated last week that “ tight
credit ” is holding back consumer spending.  
 “Just as the causes for the decline in lending are
multifaceted and complex and took time to evolve, the solutions
will likely be equally difficult and will take time to fully
work,” Duke, the only former commercial banker on the Fed’s
Board of Governors, said at an event for Ohio Bankers’ Day,
presented by the Ohio Department of Commerce.  
 “We at the Federal Reserve, meanwhile, will continue to do
everything we can to encourage a return to a healthy credit
environment,” said the 57-year-old Duke, who took office in
2008 as then-President  George W. Bush ’s last Fed appointee.  
 Asset Sales  
 Responding to audience questions afterward, Duke said her
opinion is that the Fed shouldn’t begin selling its more than $1
trillion in mortgage-backed securities until after it raises
interest rates. The central bank should communicate sales “well
in advance to the markets so that markets aren’t surprised,”
Duke said.  
 Four areas will determine the availability of credit: bank
profits, regulation, borrowers’ demand and the economy’s
strength, Duke said.  
 The  banking industry  “continues to recovery slowly,” with
a measure of net income returning to “about pre-crisis levels
for the largest 25 banks” in the first quarter, while smaller
banks had net interest margins and non-interest income remain
“weaker than they were prior to the crisis,” Duke said.
Excluding an accounting change, loans contracted in April and
May at about a 7.75 percent rate, she said.  
 Both strong and weak banks are reducing lending, which is
“very different” from past examples when declines could be
attributed to drops in the portfolios at weaker banks, Duke
said.  
 Bankers Reluctant  
 Many bankers have told Duke that they are reluctant to
extend new credit or restructure loans because of an “uncertain
regulatory environment,” she said. She asked bankers to tell
the Fed if its examination policies are “unnecessarily impeding
the flow of credit.”  
 Consumer borrowing rose for the first time in three months
in April, according to Fed data. The total amount of  outstanding
credit  to consumers has declined 5.5 percent since reaching a
peak in July 2008.  
 Household spending is constrained by “high unemployment,
modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit,”
the Fed’s Open Market Committee said in the statement following
its June 22-23 meeting. The panel cited a decline in bank
lending in recent months. The Fed renewed its pledge of low
interest rates for an “extended period.”  
 “Just looking at the statistics, it is not hard to
construct a scenario in which consumer demand for credit remains
sluggish for quite a while,” Duke said. Household net worth
dropped about 25 percent during the crisis, about 20 percent of
mortgage borrowers lack equity in their homes and consumers
“remain quite burdened by debt payments,” she said.  
 Growth Estimate  
 Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of the U.S.
economy, and sluggish growth in consumption restrains the pace
of recovery. On June 25, the Commerce Department lowered its
estimate for growth in the first quarter of 2010 to 2.7 percent
from 3 percent, reflecting a smaller gain in consumer spending.  
 Confidence among U.S. consumers sank in June more than
forecast as Americans became distressed over the outlook for
jobs and incomes, a  report  from the New York-based Conference
Board said yesterday. Sentiment fell most in regions affected by
the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 “It is going to be, I think, a long period for jobs to
recover,” Duke said. The U.S. unemployment rate was 9.7 percent
in May, close to a 26-year high.  
 For small businesses, credit conditions “remain tight,”
Duke said, citing a National Federation of Independent Business
2009 survey showing 50 percent of borrowers got all or most of
the credit they wanted, compared with about 61 percent from 2003
to 2006 who got all they wanted and 28 percent who got most.  
 Duke and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  heard in discussions
in Tampa, Florida, and Detroit that lower values of collateral
may be having an effect on business owners’ abilities to get
financing, Duke said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Columbus, Ohio at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        