-- Fed's Lockhart Says U.S. Economic Recovery Not Yet Sustainable
-- Steve Matthews
-- 2010-06-30T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/fed-s-lockhart-says-u-s-economic-recovery-not-strong-enough-for-rate-rise.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the U.S. economic recovery isn’t
sustainable enough yet to warrant raising interest rates or
shrinking the central bank’s near- record  balance sheet.  
 There’s a “small risk of deflation,” and the rebound from
the worst recession since the 1930s faces risks from Europe’s
debt crisis, drops in state and local spending, commercial real
estate losses and the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, Lockhart said in
the text of a speech today in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  
 Fed policy makers last week signaled Europe’s growth crisis
may harm American growth, saying “financial conditions have
become less supportive,” and repeated a pledge to keep interest
rates near zero “for an extended period.” The U.S. economy
grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter, less
than the 3 percent estimate issued last month, according to
Commerce Department data released June 25.  
 “Recent developments make me even more convinced that
current policy is appropriate,” Lockhart said in prepared
remarks to the Rotary Club of Baton Rouge. “Financial markets
and many businesses are more nervous today than a few weeks and
months ago, and it’s my view that monetary policymakers should
hold to a guarded policy stance and evaluate carefully the risk
and reward of a change of policy.”  
 The remarks are some of the most downbeat on the U.S.
economy from a Fed official in recent months. Lockhart doesn’t
vote on Federal Open Market Committee decisions this year.
Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  has called for an
increase in the Fed’s benchmark rate within months and has
dissented from four FOMC decisions this year.  
 Record Low Rate  
 The Fed has left the overnight interbank lending rate
target at a  record low  of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  
 “The economy has not yet arrived at a state where healthy
and sustainable final demand is underpinning growth,” said
Lockhart, 63, a former banker who became the Atlanta Fed’s chief
in 2007. “I make this point not to predict a reversal of the
progress made but just as a cautionary reminder to avoid
counting chickens too early.”  
 Central bankers are concerned that persistent  unemployment 
may reduce the pace of recovery. The Labor Department will
report on July 2 that unemployment rose to 9.8 percent in June
from 9.7 percent in May, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 8 Million Jobs  
 The U.S. lost more than 8 million jobs since the start of
the recession in December 2007, the most of any slowdown in the
post-World War II era.  
 While U.S. financial firms have “rather small and
manageable direct exposure to the Greek government” and other
European sovereign borrowers, there’s still a risk that
financial market pressures may be transmitted to the U.S.
economy and that a stronger  dollar  may weaken demand for
exports, Lockhart said.  
 For U.S. state and local governments, budget gaps are
likely to widen in 2010 and 2011, with one unspecified estimate
of the combined deficit for all states this year at $144
billion, Lockhart said. “This situation is our nation’s very
immediate analog of the public finance pressures being felt in
Europe,” he said.  
 For commercial real estate, small and regional banks “face
a heavy docket of loan restructurings that may require sizable
write-downs,” Lockhart said. “Views vary on how severe a
problem is developing and whether it will require an organized
comprehensive resolution effort to avoid widespread damage to
the economy.”  
 Lending Decline  
 Earlier today, Fed Governor  Elizabeth Duke  said in a speech
in Columbus, Ohio, that while an improving U.S. economy will
help reverse a decline in credit, it may take several years for
lending to return to pre-crisis levels.  
 Even the Gulf oil spill, whose “measurable economic
effects have been mostly local and regional,” may constrain
consumer and business confidence, Lockhart said. “The spill
disheartens us all and, I believe, makes the public a little
more reticent to assume a smooth recovery path.”  
 “The most sobering aspect of current economic reality is
the employment picture,” Lockhart said. At the same time, “I
believe the recovery will move ahead at a modest pace and
unemployment will gradually come down,” he said.  
 Lockhart said he saw few, if any, indicators of “broad-
based price pressure” in the economy and that inflation isn’t
“much of a current worry.” Prices in May rose 1.3 percent from
a year earlier under the Fed’s preferred index, which excludes
food and energy costs.  
 At the April meeting, policy makers debated when and how
fast to sell $1.1 trillion of mortgage-backed securities that
were purchased to lower home-loan rates and boost the economy.
The Fed’s balance sheet was $2.348 trillion on June 23, just
below the record $2.354 trillion on May 19.  
 Policy makers won’t raise interest rates until the first
quarter next year, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dennis Lockhart, president of the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
