-- Fed Officials Avoid Talk of Further Stimulus to Stoke Growth
-- Scott Lanman
-- 2010-07-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/fed-officials-avoid-talk-of-further-u-s-stimulus-to-stoke-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve policy makers
expressed caution about the outlook for the U.S. recovery and
bank lending without backing any new steps by the central bank
to stimulate growth.  
 Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday that
while the recovery isn’t sustainable enough yet to warrant
raising interest rates, he doesn’t see a need for additional
asset purchases to aid the economy. Fed Governor  Elizabeth Duke 
said it may take years to return to pre-recession credit levels
and that there’s “no single step” to unclog lending markets.  
 U.S. central bankers are sticking to their 18-month policy
of leaving the benchmark interest rate near zero with the
European debt crisis sapping investor confidence and U.S. stocks
plunging to their lowest close since October. Last week Fed
officials renewed a pledge to keep  the rate  at a record low for
an “extended period.”  
 “The underlying conditions are probably less robust than
was generally expected,” said  Keith Hembre , Minneapolis-based
chief economist at U.S. Bancorp’s FAF Advisors Inc., which
oversees about $91 billion.  
 At the same time, “I don’t think there’s any evidence yet
at this point that suggests that they are going to be so weak
that it will put further downward pressure on inflation and
upward pressure on unemployment to the degree that it would
necessitate further creative easing on the part of the Fed,”
Hembre said.  
 Stocks Fall  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 1 percent to 1,030.71
after Moody’s Investors Service warned that it may downgrade
Spain. Yields on two-year Treasury securities touched a record
low earlier yesterday of 0.5856 percent before rising to 0.60
percent.  
 Two days ago, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  met with
President  Barack Obama  at the White House. Afterward, Obama said
the U.S. economy is strengthening even as it faces “headwinds”
from the European debt crisis and that Bernanke shares his view
that the economy is growing stronger. Bernanke said he and Obama
talked about how the U.S. economy is being affected by events in
Europe, without elaborating.  
 The day before, Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh , appointed in 2006
by then-President  George W. Bush , a Republican, said any
decision by the central bank to expand its $2.35 trillion
balance sheet must be subject to “strict scrutiny.” Lockhart
told reporters yesterday after a speech in Baton Rouge,
Louisiana, that he respects Warsh’s view.  
 ‘Long-Term Credibility’  
 “Whenever you are purchasing government obligations in the
current conditions of deficits and rising national debt, you
have to think about the long-term credibility, which I think was
Kevin’s point,” Lockhart said.  
 Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said yesterday in an
interview with CNBC that the debt crisis in Europe has
“definitely imposed additional risks on the U.S. recovery.”  
 In a speech to the Rotary Club of Baton Rouge, Lockhart
said there’s a “small risk of deflation,” and the recovery
faces threats from Europe’s debt crisis, drops in state and
local spending, commercial real estate losses and the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill.  
 “Recent developments make me even more convinced that
current policy is appropriate,” Lockhart said. “Financial
markets and many businesses are more nervous today than a few
weeks and months ago, and it’s my view that monetary policy
makers should hold to a guarded policy stance and evaluate
carefully the risk and reward of a change of policy.”  
 Hoenig’s Dissent  
 The remarks were some of the most downbeat on the U.S.
economy from a Fed official in recent months. Lockhart, 63,
doesn’t vote on Federal Open Market Committee decisions this
year. Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  has called for an
increase in the Fed’s benchmark rate within months and has
dissented from four FOMC decisions this year.  
 The Fed has left the overnight interbank lending rate
target at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  
 Central bankers are concerned that persistent  unemployment 
May hamper the recovery. The Labor Department will report on
July 2 that unemployment rose to 9.8 percent in June from 9.7
percent in May, according to the median forecast of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Recent economic data have pointed to weakness in housing
and consumer spending.  
 Consumer Confidence  
 Consumer confidence sank in June more than forecast as
Americans became distressed over the outlook for jobs and
incomes, a June 29 report from the New York-based Conference
Board showed.  
 Sales of new homes fell in May to the lowest level on
record, the Commerce Department said June 23. Two days later,
the agency lowered its estimate for first-quarter economic
growth to an annual pace of 2.7 percent from 3 percent to
reflect a smaller gain in consumer spending and a bigger trade
deficit.  
 While U.S. financial firms have “rather small and
manageable direct exposure to the Greek government” and other
European sovereign borrowers, there’s still a risk that
financial-market pressures may be transmitted to the U.S.
economy and that a stronger  dollar  may weaken demand for
exports, Lockhart said.  
 For state and local governments, budget gaps are likely to
widen in 2010 and 2011, with one unspecified estimate of the
combined deficit for all states this year at $144 billion,
Lockhart said. “This situation is our nation’s very immediate
analog of the public finance pressures being felt in Europe,”
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dennis Lockhart, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, attends an event in Atlanta. Photographer: Chris Rank/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
