-- Federer Faces Berdych in Wimbledon Quarterfinal; Nadal Will Play Soderling
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-30T10:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/federer-continues-wimbledon-title-record-chase-with-quarterfinal-match.html

          
          
             Roger Federer  resumes his run at
 Pete Sampras ’s Wimbledon titles record today when he faces  Tomas Berdych  in the quarterfinals.  
 Top-seeded Federer will be playing in his 25th straight
Grand Slam quarterfinal when he meets the 12th-seeded Berdych.
The Swiss is seeking this year to tie Sampras’s Open-era men’s
record of seven titles at the All England Club.  
 Rafael Nadal , the second seed and 2008 champion, plays
 Robin Soderling , with No. 3  Novak Djokovic  and No. 4  Andy Murray 
also in action today in the final eight. Nadal beat Soderling in
straight sets for the French Open title earlier this month.  
 “I think the match is completely different,” Nadal told
reporters yesterday. “It’s not similar to play on grass than on
clay and I think his game is going to be good on every
surface.”  
 Djokovic meets Yen-Hsun Lu and Murray, the only man yet to
drop a set at this year’s tournament, plays No. 10 Jo-Wilfried
Tsonga.  
 Lu, the 82nd-ranked player from Taiwan, meets his former
training partner Djokovic after upsetting three-time finalist
 Andy Roddick  two days ago.  
 Lu’s five-set victory over the fifth-seeded American was
his first against a top-10 player since he upset Murray in the
first round of the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  
 “I don’t know how far I can play,” Lu, who lost in the
first round in his previous four visits to Wimbledon, said after
the Roddick match. “But I can tell you if I have a chance to
step on the court, I will fight in the end.”  
 Yesterday, five-time champion  Venus Williams  of the U.S.
lost in the women’s quarterfinals to Tsvetana Pironkova, a
Bulgarian who never had been past the second round in any of
tennis’s four majors.  
 Defending champion  Serena Williams  advanced in straight
sets against China’s Li Na. Joining her in the semifinals were
 Petra Kvitova  of the Czech Republic and Russia’s  Vera Zvonareva ,
who defeated U.S. Open champion  Kim Clijsters  of Belgium.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        