-- Financial Overhaul Is Politics in Worst Sense: Richard Posner
-- Richard A. Posner
-- 2010-06-30T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/financial-bill-is-politics-in-worst-sense-commentary-by-richard-a-posner.html

          
          
             The most sensible legislative
response to the financial collapse of September 2008 would have
been to do nothing until the causes of the collapse were fully
understood.  
 There is no urgency about legislating financial regulatory
reform. The existing regulatory agencies have virtually total
authority over the financial industry. And because they were
asleep at the switch when disaster struck, they are now hyper-
alert to prevent a repetition of it. Indeed, bank examiners have
become so fearful of condoning risky practices that they are
making it difficult for banks to lend to small businesses and
consumers and thus are retarding the economic recovery.  
 The principal factors in the recent economic collapse were:  
 No. 1. Incompetent monetary policy, which under former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  and his successor  Ben Bernanke  produced the housing bubble that burst, bringing down
the financial industry, which was heavily invested in the
mortgage market.  
 No. 2. The inattention of the Fed and the Securities and
Exchange Commission, which didn’t understand the changing nature
of the banking industry, particularly the rise of so-called
nonbank banks dependent on short-term, noninsured capital.  
 No. 3. The over-indebtedness of the American people and
government, which has hampered the restoration of credit.  
 No. 4. The failure of the Treasury Department under former
Secretary  Henry Paulson  and the Fed under Bernanke to rescue
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. They didn’t realize that Lehman’s
bankruptcy would trigger a run on the banking industry, causing
a global credit freeze.  
 Not Paying Attention  
 Barack Obama ’s main economic officials -- Bernanke,
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , and National Economic
Council Chairman  Lawrence Summers  -- were implicated in the
regulatory oversights that precipitated the crisis, as were key
legislative officials, such as Senator  Christopher Dodd  and
Congressman  Barney Frank . None of them wants to shoulder blame
for the crisis. Instead, they blame the banking industry.  
 Banks did take risks that were excessive from an overall
social standpoint, but businesses will always take the risks
that government permits them to take, especially if the brunt of
any harm falls on others.  
 The costs of the collapse have been borne largely by people
and firms that had nothing to do with finance. Some banks took a
hit, but the big ones are doing well. The government saved them
from bankruptcy and the Fed is allowing them to borrow at
 interest rates  close to zero, thus enabling them to return to
profitability without doing much lending and thus without
meeting urgent credit needs.  
 Political Response  
 But just as politics requires that President Obama be seen
to be doing something about the oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico,
though there is nothing he can do, so politics requires that
Congress be seen to be doing something to prevent another
economic disaster, though there is nothing it needs to do.  
 The same political imperative led to the reorganization of
the intelligence community in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks, a move now widely regarded as a failure. Reorganization
is a favorite response to a governmental failure because it is
visible, easily explainable, and can be done without ruffling
too many feathers among interest groups and bureaucrats. It also
buys time, since no one expects such reshuffling to be effective
immediately.  
 The new financial overhaul  bill  is about 2,300 pages long,
and though they are pages of large print and broad margins, I
defy any single person to claim to have read and understood it
all. So far as I can judge, though, much that the bill ordains
is within the existing powers of the financial regulatory
agencies and is therefore superfluous.  
 Adding Redundant Layers  
 The Financial Stability Oversight Council (consisting
mainly of the Fed chairman, the Treasury secretary, and the
chairmen of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the SEC) to
advise on systemic risk? These officials don’t need legislation
to hold regular meetings if that would be useful.  
 A consumer-protection bureau lodged in the Federal Reserve?
The Fed already has such a unit. It is ineffectual because the
Fed cares about the solvency of banks, not the solvency of their
customers. Congress proposes to cure this skew by making the
head of the Fed’s consumer protection staff -- renamed the
Consumer Financial Protection Board, since renaming is the least
arduous and hence an irresistible form of reorganization -- a
presidential appointee, which will create friction with the
Fed’s chairman, who might (because he has a fixed term) be a
holdover from a previous administration.  
 Already Helping Consumers  
 The Federal Trade Commission already has extensive
experience in consumer protection and could be given additional
resources to police unfair and deceptive practices in mortgage
and other consumer lending. If, as some students of finance
infer from the extraordinary interest rates that people pay for
credit-card  debt  and other forms of fringe banking, it’s true
that Americans simply can’t handle debt responsibly, the only
solution is to reinstate usury laws.  
 The new bill increases the amount of equity capital that
banks must hold, relative to their total capital, in order to
reduce bankruptcy risk. But the Fed in the case of commercial
banks, and the SEC in the case of nonbank banks, already have
the authority to decide how much equity capital the firms they
regulate must hold.  
 The legislation requires that most credit-default swaps --a
form of credit insurance, but also a device for speculating on
bond defaults -- be traded through clearinghouses and on public
exchanges, like publicly traded stocks.  
 Slighting Disclosure  
 Uncertainty about the liabilities and solvency of issuers
of credit-default swaps did contribute to the financial panic of
2008, but can be dispelled simply by requiring better disclosure
of firms’ off-balance-sheet contingent liabilities. These could
include not only credit-default swaps but also the structured
investment vehicles in which banks parked their mortgage-backed
securities.  
 It may be argued in defense of the new law’s apparent
redundancy that the regulatory agencies didn’t use their
authority properly to avert the crisis -- which is true -- so
they must be ordered to do better.  
 But it is a mistake for Congress to tell regulatory
agencies in minute detail what to do. The idea behind
administrative regulation is that agencies hire experts to deal
with technical issues that Congress has neither the competence
nor the time to resolve. Legislation once adopted is difficult
to change, and can put a regulatory agency in a straitjacket.
This is a particularly serious concern in the case of finance,
which is undergoing continuous change.  
 Restricting Regulators  
 Besides trying to micro-manage the regulatory process in
some respects, the new law in other provisions takes a different
tack and directs the regulatory agencies merely to study
particular problems. This is a waste of ink. All the senior
financial regulators are appointees of the Obama administration.
If there are areas of financial regulation that would benefit
from further study -- and there are -- the administration can
tell its appointees to do so. There is no need for a
congressional prod.  
 There are little nuggets here and there, such as the
abolition of the ineffectual Office of Thrift Supervision, but
on the whole, so far as I can judge, the new law is a political
measure in the worst sense.  
 ( Richard A. Posner  is a U.S. Court of Appeals judge for the
Seventh Circuit and a senior lecturer at the University of
Chicago Law School. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 richard_posner@ca7.uscourts.gov .  
          
          


  


        