-- Financial Regulator May Be Unable to Publish Detailed Stress-Test Results
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-06-30T16:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/financial-regulator-may-be-unable-to-publish-detailed-stress-test-results.html

          
          
             U.K law may prevent the  Financial
Services Authority  from releasing detailed information on banks’
stress tests without the lenders’ consent.  
 The U.K. banking supervisor can’t disclose confidential
information “without the consent of the person from whom” the
regulator obtained the information, according to the  Financial
Services and Markets Act , which was enacted 10 years ago.  
 EU leaders agreed this month to disclose how banks perform
in European stress tests, seeking to show investors that the
financial system can withstand shocks. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government won’t compel banks to agree to the
publication of the tests, relying on market pressure to achieve
the same result.  
 “Like it or not, the U.K. legislative framework puts
substantial restrictions on the FSA,” said  Bob Penn , a lawyer
at Allen & Overy LLP in London. “Ultimately, you can’t help but
think that this will be a question for individual banks.”  
 Adair Turner , chairman of the FSA, said in a speech in
London last week that he’s confident U.K. banks will pass
European Union evaluations because “the domestic stress tests
are more severe.”  
 “Subject to any legal considerations, we’re working” with
the Committee of European Banking Supervisors “to find the
appropriate level of disclosure,”  Heidi Ashley , a spokeswoman
for the FSA, said in a telephone interview.  
 CEBS Tests  
 CEBS is conducting stress tests in cooperation with the
European Central Bank on several cross-border lenders, which
together represent more than “60 percent of the EU banking
sector in terms of total assets,” the London-based regulator
said in a statement on its  website  earlier this month.  
 Irving Henry , the policy director for prudential capital
and risk for the British Bankers Association, said that most
banks will eventually agree to release stress-test data.  
 “Ideally, stress testing should be a bi-lateral and
private process between a bank and its regulator,” he said in
telephone interview. “However, the debate is moving on.”  
 CEBS’s role is to coordinate national banking authorities
and make policy recommendations to the EU on regulation.  
 Under German law, banks can refuse publication of the
results of stress tests and the government has no plans to amend
the law, Berlin-based Finance Ministry spokesman  Michael Offer 
said earlier this month in an e-mail.  
 The Bundesbank and financial regulator BaFin plan to meet
today with officials from Germany’s largest lenders to discuss
whether the state-owned banks, or Landesbanken, will agree to
publish the results of the evaluations.  
 -- Editors: Anthony Aarons ,  Steve Bailey   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Adair Turner, chairman of the U.K. Financial Services Authority, said in a speech in London last week that he’s confident U.K. banks will pass European Union stress tests. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
