-- Finance Panel Freshmen Gain 53% Edge in Donations to Aid Re-Election Bids
-- Jonathan D. Salant
-- 2010-06-30T04:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/finance-panel-freshmen-gain-53-edge-in-donations-to-aid-re-election-bids.html

          
          
             For congressional freshmen trying
to win re-election, membership on the U.S. House Financial
Services Committee has its rewards.  
 The 14 first-term lawmakers on the committee, which is at
the center of efforts to rewrite financial rules, are among the
biggest fundraisers of the 58 members of Congress who took
office in 2009.  
 The panel’s freshman members, including some whose seats
are considered among the most endangered, raised an average of
53 percent more than other first-year lawmakers, a review of
Federal Election Commission records shows. The four freshmen
gathering the most money for their 2010 races -- Democrats  Alan Grayson  of Florida,  Jim Himes  of Connecticut,  John Adler  of New
Jersey and  Gary Peters  of Michigan -- sit on the panel.  
 “If you’re a freshman and you’re in a district where you
need a lot of money to win, that’s a good place to put you,”
said  Bill Allison , an editor at the Sunlight Foundation, a
Washington-based watchdog group.  
 The foundation counted  more fundraising events  for
Financial Services members than for any other House panel.  
 Some analysts say the financial regulation legislation,
which lawmakers are still discussing, could have been stronger.  
 “The industry spent a lot of money making campaign
contributions,” said  Melanie Sloan , executive director of
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a
watchdog group.  
 ‘Honest People’  
 The donor list includes employees of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , two of the banks overseen by the
committee.  Melissa Daly , a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, and
 Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  
 Ryan Carbain, a spokesman for Adler, said the lawmaker
sits on the committee to “help small businesses create private
sector jobs.” He has supported legislation to protect credit
card holders and set up an independent consumer financial
protection agency, among other measures, Carbain said.  
 As of March 31, Adler raised $369,600 from the financial
industry, his largest source of funding from any sector,
according to the  Center for Responsive Politics,  a Washington-
based research group.  
 Todd Jurkowski, a spokesman for Grayson, said, “Being on
the Financial Services Committee is not the reason for his
fundraising success.” He said Grayson is mostly raising money
from “honest people who are sick and tired of seeing members
of Congress for sale.”  
 ‘You’re a Factor’  
 Grayson has raised $92,500 from employees of financial
companies, his largest source of money from any industry,
according to the center. Still, he’s received far more from
organized labor, $152,500, FEC data shows.  
 Elizabeth Kerr, a spokeswoman for Himes, who has collected
$717,800 from the financial industry, had no comment.  
 In addition to the funding advantage the committee
conferred on freshmen, it also gave them extra visibility as
they helped write the biggest overhaul of market rules since
the Great Depression.  
 Freshmen Peters and  Mary Jo Kilroy  of Ohio were among 31
House members who negotiated the bill with senators. Former
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Chairman  Vic Fazio ,
a senior adviser at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, called
it “a clear message that you’re a factor in Washington.”  
 Peters ousted Republican incumbent  Joe Knollenberg  two
years ago to win the seat. He took in $244,753 from financial,
insurance and real estate employees, compared with $84,427 in
2008.  
 Fighting Wall Street  
 Peters, a former executive at Merrill Lynch & Co., now
part of  Bank of America Corp. , has held at least two
fundraisers targeting the industry or hosted by a financial
lobbyist, according to Sunlight. Overall, he raised $2.1
million through March 31, almost as much as the $2.6 million he
collected for his last race.  
 Peters “was an early leader in the fight to crack down on
Wall Street greed and recklessness, including authoring the
measure to ensure Wall Street banks pay back every penny of the
bailout,” said spokesman  Cullen Schwarz .  
 Kilroy, in a rematch against former Ohio state Senator
 Steve Stivers , is considered one of the most vulnerable House
Democrats, according to the three nonpartisan Washington-based
publications that rate congressional races,  Congressional
Quarterly , the  Cook Political Report  and the  Rothenberg
Political Report .  
 ‘Stack of Letters’  
 Her amendment to hold credit-ratings agencies to the same
accuracy standards as investment bankers, auditors and company
lawyers was accepted by the conference committee, she said.  
 She said serving on the Financial Services panel allows
her to address concerns of economically struggling
constituents.  
 “We have a stack of letters from people who have been
hurt,” Kilroy said in an interview. “I know those stories. I
take them into the hearing room with me.”  
 She raised $1.5 million for her re-election through April
14, compared with $1.1 million for Stivers, FEC records show.
Employees working for insurance, real estate and investment
firms are among Kilroy’s top donors. She has held at least
three fundraisers hosted by financial services lobbyists,
according to Sunlight.  
 “I’m not on the committee to raise money,” she said. “I
am challenging Wall Street.”  
 Stivers, a former banking lobbyist, has taken in more
money from the industry than Kilroy, $149,430 to $97,994,
through March 31, according to the  Center for Responsive
Politics .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        