-- Ex-Australia Prime Minister John Howard Fails in Bid for Cricket's Top Job
-- Nichola Saminather
-- 2010-06-30T09:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/former-australian-prime-minister-howard-loses-bid-for-cricket-presidency.html

          
          
             Former Australian Prime Minister
 John Howard , who once described himself as a “cricket tragic,”
today  lost  his bid to serve as president of the sport’s
governing body from 2012 due to lack of support from its board.  
 Cricket Australia  and  New Zealand Cricket , who jointly
nominated Howard to be the  International Cricket Council ’s vice
president for two years before taking over its leadership, said
they were “deeply disappointed” the group didn’t support their
candidate.  
 “We were delighted that the most senior world figure ever
considered for this role agreed to accept the nomination,” Jack
Clarke and Alan Isaac, chairmen of the Australian and New
Zealand cricket groups respectively, said in a joint statement.
“ We remain convinced it is reasonable for his nomination to be
supported by the ICC executive board and we are deeply
disappointed by the position taken at today’s meeting.”  
 Following a meeting in Singapore in which no vote was taken,
the ICC’s executive board asked the two groups to nominate
another candidate by Aug. 31. The two organizations settled on
Howard only after former  British Airways Plc  chief  Rod Eddington 
was called in to help resolve an impasse in which they favored
different candidates.  
 Under the ICC’s rotation of the presidency, a candidate
from Australia or New Zealand is scheduled to fill the role for
two years from 2012. Current President  David Morgan  will hand
over to India’s  Sharad Pawar  for a two-year term to start in
mid-2010.  
 The 70-year-old Howard, Australia’s prime minister from
1996 to 2007, said he was “honored and humbled” when he was
nominated in March.  
 “Cricket has been one of my lifelong passions and, if the
ICC accepts my nomination, it will be a privilege to serve this
great game,” Howard said in an ICC statement at that time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        