-- French Government Denies Meddling in Affairs of National Soccer Federation
-- Gregory Viscusi
-- 2010-06-30T14:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/french-government-denies-meddling-in-affairs-of-national-soccer-federation.html

          
          
             The French government denied it’s
meddling in the affairs of the country’s soccer federation, a
day after world governing body FIFA warned it could suspend the
national team.  
 A parliamentary committee today questioned outgoing coach
 Raymond Domenech  and  French Football Federation  president  Jean- Pierre Escalettes  to understand the squad’s disintegration at
the World Cup in South Africa.  
 “There is no interference,”  Luc Chatel , the government’s
spokesman, said at a press conference. “It is the role of the
state to think through, with the federation, a problem that goes
beyond simple sport. The French team represents the country, not
just the federation.”  
 FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said yesterday that he wanted
to send a “clear message” that France would be suspended from
international competition if the government meddled in choosing
the federation’s next head.  
 Escallettes resigned two days ago after France was
eliminated in first round. French Health Minister  Roselyne Bachelot-Narquin , who counts sports within her portfolio, said
in an interview on RTL radio last week that Escalettes’s
resignation was “unavoidable.”  
 President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a statement last week
that the government wants to review how the country’s sports
federations are managed.  
 Bachelot told parliament’s culture committee last night
that her comment about Escalettes’s departure was “a commentary
that anyone here would have made and at no moment did I tell him
to resign.”  
 World Cup Exit  
 The French, champions in 1998 and losing finalists four
years ago in Germany, exited this year’s tournament after losses
to hosts South Africa and Mexico, and a 0-0 draw with Uruguay.  
 The players refused to train after striker  Nicolas Anelka 
was sent home for insulting Domenech at halftime of the Mexico
match and captain  Patrice Evra  almost got into a fist fight with
the team’s trainer live on national television. Domenech then
refused to shake the hand of South Africa’s coach at the end of
their game.  
 Today’s committee hearing with Escalettes and Domenech was
barred to the press.  
 Escalettes called the players “spoiled children,” while
Domenech said it was newspaper L’Equipe’s decision to publish
Anelka’s insult on its front page that set off the team’s
breakdown, according to Lionel Tardy, a member of parliament
from the ruling Union for a Popular Movement party who sent out
messages on Twitter to protest the decision to hold the session
behind closed doors.  
 “Domenech went through the motions of saying he accepts
his responsibility, and then he blamed everyone else, especially
the press,” Bernard Debre, a UMP legislator, said after the
two-hour hearing.  
 Back Door  
 Domenech, who said before the tournament that he was
resigning, and Escalettes made no public comments as they
entered and left through a back door. Escalettes will hold a
press conference in two days.  
 Jean-Francois Cope , the head of the UMP’s members of
parliament, denied the hearing amounted to political
interference.  
 “It’s a normal citizen act to want to know what
happened,” he said. “It was rather a sad hearing. It
underlined many dysfunctions.”  
 Philippe Plisson, a Socialist MP, said the session wasn’t
very useful.  
 “It was 55 wannabe national coaches, each with their own
lectures about what should have been done,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        