-- Fuel Oil Glut in Singapore Widens Price Gap to Dubai Crude: Energy Markets
-- Yee Kai Pin
-- 2010-06-30T13:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/fuel-oil-glut-in-singapore-widens-price-gap-to-dubai-crude-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Fuel-oil  prices in Singapore, Asia’s
biggest energy trading hub, may weaken relative to Dubai crude
as imports from Russia, Mexico and the Caribbean drive up record
stockpiles.  
 Deliveries to Singapore will rise as much as 20 percent
next month from June to 4.2 million metric tons, according to a
Bloomberg survey of seven traders from Singapore to Tokyo, who
declined to be identified as they aren’t authorized to speak on
transactions. The  discount  to crude may widen to $9 a barrel,
the most in a year, from $5.53 today, the survey showed.  
 “Fuel-oil imports into Singapore will remain steady in
July, and probably in August,” said Yasuhito Imaizumi, a
Singapore-based trading manager at Petro Summit Pte, a unit of
 Sumitomo Corp. , Japan’s third-largest trading company. “I am
expecting a hefty amount of imports in the first half of July.”  
 Refiners are creating a glut of the heavy residue from
processing crude as they boost output of gasoline and diesel.
Singapore’s onshore stockpiles climbed to a record 25.7 million
barrels on April 21, according to the Ministry of Trade and
Industry.  
 Inventories  swelled as production has outpaced a recovery
in the shipping industry, the main user of 380-centistoke grade
of fuel oil. Centistoke ratings measure viscosity when fuel oil
is heated. Higher centistoke grades have a slower flow rate and
require blending with lighter fuels for use in ship engines and
power stations.  
 Crack Spread  
 The difference in price, or  crack spread , between 180-
centistoke grade and Dubai oil was zero as recently as Jan. 29.
Since then, the discount to crude widened to as much as $8.84 a
barrel on May 5 compared with an average $3.86 over the past 12
months.  
 Flagging demand in China, Asia’s biggest energy user, may
increase Singapore inventories. The International Energy Agency
forecast on June 10 that Chinese consumption of residues will
drop 17 percent this year even as its demand for refined
products climbs 7.9 percent.  
 Supplies from Russia may increase in July because of a
reduced tax on fuel-oil exports, traders said. The duty is set
to decline to $96.90 a ton on July 1 from $112.70 after prices
for the country’s benchmark Urals crude fell, according to the
Finance Ministry.  
 VLCC Hiring  
 Russia needs to upgrade refineries to reduce the share of
fuel oil produced from each barrel of crude, Vitol Group Chief
Executive Officer  Ian Taylor  said last week in London.  
 BP Plc and Litasco, the trading unit of OAO Lukoil,
Russia’s biggest non-state producer, hired Very Large Crude
Carriers, or VLCCs, in Europe for delivery to Singapore,
according to shipbroker reports. The Albutain Star, Kokkari and
Marina M were each chartered for $4.5 million, according to
reports from companies including Optima Shipbrokers Ltd.  
 Supertankers may also load fuel oil in July from across the
Pacific Ocean. PetroChina Co. placed the Janah Star on
provisional charter to sail to Singapore from the Caribbean,
based on data from Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker.  
 “Supplies are rising with the shipments coming in and it’s
bound to go into storage,” said  Victor Shum , senior principal
at U.S. energy consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in Singapore.
“ Bunker demand , even though it’s doing well, is not rising as
rapidly.”  
 Arbitrage traders are adding to the glut by moving cargoes
of high-viscosity grades to Singapore from Mexico after state-
owned Petroleos Mexicanos shut its Minatitlan refinery for
maintenance in May. Increased imports of Mexican 1,000-
centistoke fuel oil will sap blending stock, leaving more
higher-centistoke product in the market. Refiners use blending
stock to cut viscosity.  
 Viscosity Spread  
 As the blending supply tightens, the premium in Singapore
of 180-centistoke oil to 380-centistoke grade, known as the
 viscosity spread , may rise to as much as $15 a ton in July, the
widest in 19 months, according to one of the traders in the
survey, who declined to be identified because of company policy.  
 “It is hard to believe the spread hasn’t gained much
yet,” said  Akira Kamiyama , a Tokyo-based trader at Mitsui & Co.
“It could widen to $10 a ton at any moment.”  
 The gap narrowed to 25 cents a ton on June 1, the lowest
since September 2009. It’s at $6 a ton today, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at   yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        