-- Gazprom Plays Catch-Up in Africa, Seeks Stake in Statoil Nigeria Project
-- Anna Shiryaevskaya
-- 2010-06-30T12:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/gazprom-plays-catch-up-in-africa-seeks-stake-in-statoil-nigeria-project.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom  is seeking to join
 Statoil ASA ’s deepwater exploration project in Nigeria as the
world’s biggest gas producer aims to catch up with international
companies operating in Africa.  
 NiGaz Energy Co. Ltd, a joint venture between Gazprom and
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp., may start talks as early as
next month on a potential interest in the Nnwa Doro block, which
holds as much as 5 trillion cubic feet of gas, said Mohammed
Bello, the venture’s managing director.  
 “We are just starting to talk,” Bello said in an
interview late yesterday in Moscow at a conference organized by
Renaissance Capital. “The board has to decide, we have a
meeting next month.”  
 Moscow-based Gazprom, whose production is located in
Russia, is seeking to enter new markets such as Africa and Asia
by gaining exploration licenses and forming ventures with local
partners. Nigeria, which has the largest gas reserves on the
continent, has been seeking to diversify its sources of income
in a bid to reduce shocks during periods of low oil prices.  
 Statoil’s Nnwa discovery extends into the Royal Dutch Shell
Plc-operated Doro structure, and the two companies previously
agreed with Nigeria to study their joint development. Production
of liquefied-natural gas could be a possibility, Bello said.  
 Statoil is the operator and has a 53.85 percent stake in
the Oil Mining Lease 129, which includes Nnwa and the Bilah
field, according to the Norwegian company’s website.  
 Aggressive Expansion  
 Gazprom will “aggressively” seek projects in Africa to
catch up with international rivals there,  Boris Ivanov , head of
the Russian company’s international exploration and production
unit, said on June 19.  
 In Nigeria, Gazprom is looking at oil and gas projects and
aims to work on the planned trans-Saharan pipeline to Algeria,
Ivanov said. Gazprom and NNPC set up the NiGaz venture in Abuja
last year.  
 NiGaz has identified three initial projects each worth
between $100 million and $150 million in the West African
country: a smelter, development of a gas field in the
northeastern Nigeria and a possible power generator that would
use its fuel, Bello said. The joint venture is seeking financing
from the banks for the projects, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        