-- GE Sees Saudi Arabia as Manufacturing, Supply-Chain Hub in Islamic World
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-06-30T11:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/ge-sees-saudi-arabia-as-manufacturing-supply-chain-hub-in-islamic-world.html

          
          
             General Electric Co.  aims to make
Saudi Arabia its manufacturing hub in the Islamic world as the
company pushes to increase its revenue in the kingdom from last
year’s $3 billion.  
 Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE is focused on increasing
its Saudi investments in terms of manufacturing, job creation
and technology development, Akram Hamad, the president for the
Gulf region, said in an interview today.  
 “By 2013, Saudi Arabia will be the manufacturing hub for
GE in the Islamic bloc,” he said.  
 The maker of gas turbines, engines and trains joins other
U.S. companies seeking to expand in the Arab world’s largest
economy. Saudi Arabia is implementing a $400 billion, five-year
spending program to boost economic growth and build
infrastructure. It’s the biggest stimulus package by any of the
Group of 20 nations as a percentage of gross domestic product.  
 “There are a lot of projects and the government is playing
a key role in stimulating the economy,” Hamad said. “We are
not afraid about any slowdown in business.” GE’s 2009 revenue
in Saudi Arabia should be exceeded this year, Hamad said.  
 Companies from China, Europe and the U.S. are competing for
contracts to build railways, petrochemical and electricity
plants and water facilities. “With the increasing role of the
government in 2008-09 amid the financial crisis globally, we put
more focus on government stimulus and worked more closely with
the government,” Hamad said.  
 Two hundred Saudi government and business leaders,
including Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi , attended the U.S.-Saudi
Business Opportunities Forum in Chicago in April. U.S. companies
that were present included Exxon Mobil Corp.  
 Strategic Partnership  
 After the Chicago meeting, GE signed a strategic
partnership with the Saudi  Ministry of Industry and Commerce .
The company will treat Saudi Arabia as a global supply-chain and
manufacturing center, Hamad said.  
 Along with expanding its energy, aviation and health-care
business, GE plans to offer financial services in the kingdom by
the end of this year through a joint venture with Mubadala
Development Co. GE formed the venture in 2008 to invest in
emerging markets, including the Middle East and North Africa.
Mubadala owned 65.8 million shares of  GE  at the end of March,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Saudi Arabia is a “key market” and GE would like to
support the country, “not only on the industrial side, but on
the financial side,” Hamad said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        