-- German Notes Decline as Banks Demand Smaller Loans Than Expected From ECB
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-30T15:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/german-notes-decline-as-banks-demand-smaller-loans-than-expected-from-ecb.html

          
          
             German government bonds fell after
the European Central Bank loaned institutions less money than
some analysts expected, damping demand for safety and restoring
optimism that the region will weather the sovereign-debt crisis.  
 The two-year German  note  snapped two days of gains after
lenders asked the ECB for 131.9 billion euros ($162 billion) of
three-month loans before a 12-month facility is repaid tomorrow.
Barclays Plc estimated before the release that banks would ask
for 250 billion euros to 300 billion euros, with a figure in the
higher end of that range indicating institutions were still
finding it hard to fund themselves. Germany also sold 4.94
billion euros of two-year securities today.  
 “The reaction is one of relief,” said  Orlando Green , an
interest-rate strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in London. “The market is taking this as being
an indication the banking liquidity situation isn’t as bad as
feared. There seems to be a risk-on reaction, and we’re seeing
bonds come off a bit.”  
 The yield on the two-year note rose five basis points to
0.6 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in London. The 0.5 percent security
due in June 2012 fell 0.09, or 90 euro cents per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 99.81.  
 Euribor Yield  
 The yield on the euribor futures contract maturing in March
2011 gained four basis points to 1.10 percent as investors added
to bets that banks will become more confident turning to each
other for loans as demand for ECB funding shrinks.  
 Germany sold 4.94 billion euros of two-year notes at an
average yield of 0.53 percent, compared with 0.47 percent in a
sale of two-year securities on June 9.  
 Germany’s government debt has returned 4.2 percent this
quarter, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts’ Societies, driven by
investors seeking refuge as the crisis that started in Greece
threatened to derail the economic recovery. Spanish bonds fell
4.9 percent, while Greece’s debt handed investors a 17 percent
loss, the indexes showed. U.S. Treasuries gained 4.8 percent.  
 German 10-year bonds pared a decline as equities slid after
ADP Employer Services data showed companies in the U.S. expanded
payrolls less than economists predicted in June. The yield on
the benchmark securities rose two basis points to 2.57 percent
after reaching 2.59 percent.  
 The ADP figures showed payrolls expanded by 13,000. They
were forecast to show a gain of 60,000 jobs, according to the
median estimate of 36 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 German Jobless  
 Germany’s Federal Labor Agency said the number of people
out of work fell 21,000 in June, less than the 30,000 predicted
in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Bonds of so-called peripheral euro area nations rose,
narrowing their yield difference to German securities, as the
reduction in appetite for ECB funding fueled demand for assets
perceived to be higher risk and damped concern the countries’
banks were struggling to raise funds. The ECB will offer six-day
loans tomorrow.  
 The Italian 10-year bond yield fell three basis points to
4.10 percent, reducing the extra yield investors demand to hold
the securities instead of benchmark German bunds by five basis
points to 152 basis points. The Spanish 10-year yield fell four
basis points to 4.58 percent.  
 “Anything that suggests that the banking system is not
that stressed is a positive,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed-market strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “We
won’t know the full story until tomorrow’s operation.”  
 DWS Holdings  
 Spain will sell as much as 3.5 billion euros of bonds due
in 2015 tomorrow, and France will sell up to 7.5 billion euros
of securities.  
 The Greek 10-year bond yield fell 15 basis points to 10.49
percent.  
 DWS Investment GmbH, Germany’s biggest mutual fund company,
said it’s retaining its holdings of Greek government debt,
betting the nation’s austerity measures will help it weather the
crisis that forced a European Union rescue.  
 “Greece is going to suffer a severe recession, but what we
can see is monthly budget figures are looking fine,”  Johannes Mueller , a fixed-income economist in Frankfurt at DWS, which
oversees $347 billion, said in a telephone interview. “If that
continues for the next two years there’s a reasonable chance
that Greece can stand on its own feet again.”  
 Greek bonds will be removed from bond indexes managed by
Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc and the Markit iBoxx index at
the end of this month after they were downgraded to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service on June 14.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        