-- German Unemployment Declines for 12th Straight Month as Economy Recovers
-- Christian Vits
-- 2010-06-30T09:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/german-unemployment-declines-less-than-estimated-as-exports-fuel-recovery.html

          
          
             German  unemployment  fell for a 12th
month in June as business confidence improved, putting the
nation’s export-led economic recovery on a broader footing.  
 The  number  of people out of work declined a seasonally
adjusted 21,000 to 3.23 million, the lowest since December 2008,
the Federal Labor Agency in Nuremberg said today. Unemployment
was forecast to fall 30,000, according to the median of 29
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The adjusted  jobless rate 
remained at 7.7 percent.  
 The German economy, Europe’s biggest, is showing signs of
evading the worst of the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis,
which has forced governments across the 16-nation bloc to step
up spending cuts.  Consumer confidence  will hold steady next
month, market research company GfK SE said June 23, a day after
the  Ifo institute  said its  business climate index  unexpectedly
rose to the highest in two years.  
 “The German labor market performance remains impressive
and clearly is the showcase of German crisis management,”
 Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels, said in
a note to investors. “The recent performance is remarkable as
it coincides with a gradual decline in short-term work schemes,
underlining the strength of the labor market.”  
 On an unadjusted basis, unemployment fell 88,200 to 3.15
million, according to the agency. It said the labor market
improved on the back of the economic recovery.  
 Euro  
 The euro remained higher against the dollar after the
report and was up 0.6 percent to $1.2262 as of 11:51 a.m. in
Berlin. It has fallen 14 percent this year as the region’s debt
crisis undermined confidence in the currency.  
 The decline is benefiting the German economy by boosting
export competitiveness outside the euro region.  Industrial
production  increased more than economists forecast in April and
 factory orders  unexpectedly jumped for a second month.  
 The Essen-based RWI institute on June 23 raised its 2010
growth projection to 1.9 percent from 1.4 percent, saying
government austerity measures won’t hurt the recovery. Ifo
raised its forecast the same day to 2.1 percent from 1.7
percent.  
 Even so, the outlook for the German labor market is still
“surrounded by uncertainty,” Labor Agency head Frank-Juergen
Weise told reporters in Nuremberg today. While the current
economic recovery won’t fully offset the negative effects from
the financial crisis, there’s still “a chance” that less than
3 million people will be unemployed by the end of the year,
Weise said.  
 Hiring Rise  
 German companies plan to take on more workers in the second
half of the year as economic growth picks up, Ifo said in a
survey of executives for WirtschaftsWoche magazine published
June 26. Unemployment will fall to 2.9 million by November and
2.8 million a year later, a 20-year low, Allianz SE Chief
Economist  Michael Heise  said.  
 Daimler AG  has hired 1,800 temporary workers and added
Saturday shifts at German assembly plants making the Mercedes-
Benz SLS gull-wing sports car, GLK sport-utility vehicle and E-
Class convertible.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  has hired 5,000
temporary workers.  
 Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering company, yesterday
predicted “continued strong profitability” in its third
quarter as demand rebounds for factory automation gear, health-
care products and light bulbs. New orders and sales in the
quarter will exceed year-earlier figures, it said.  
 While Germany’s economy shrank 4.9 percent last year, the
most since World War II, the government limited the increase in
unemployment with incentives for companies to retain workers.
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet in April extended the job
incentives program until 2012, having earlier extended it to the
end of this year.  
 According to Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development data, Germany’s jobless rate was 7.1 percent in
April. The equivalent rate in France was 10.1 percent and the
U.S. rate was 9.9 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Cabinet in April extended the job incentives program until 2012, having earlier extended it to the end of this year. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
