-- Negotiations With Mining Industry Over Tax Are Constructive, Gillard Says
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-06-30T09:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/gillard-says-negotiations-on-australian-mining-tax-proposal-are-good-.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said she’s encouraged by discussions over the fate of a
proposed mining tax amid newspaper reports that a compromise may
be in the works.  
 “I have been pleased by the constructive and disciplined
approach that is being taken by both sides,” Gillard said in an
e-mailed statement late today. “I have nothing to report on the
content of the discussions at this point.”  
 Parts of the mining industry yesterday gave Gillard two
weeks from June 25 to resolve a dispute over the proposed 40
percent tax, saying it would reinstate advertising campaigns
opposing the levy should talks fail. Gillard and companies
including  BHP Billiton Ltd.  stopped advertising last week after
Gillard took office saying her priority is resolving the issue.  
 “I have indicated the importance of good faith
negotiations on this issue of critical national importance,”
Gillard, who ousted predecessor  Kevin Rudd  last week, said.  
 Gillard, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  met in Canberra today with BHP Billiton Ltd. Chief
Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers , Rio Tinto Group’s Managing
Director for Australia  David Peever  and Xstrata Plc’s coal unit
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Freyberg , the Sydney Morning
Herald said on its website.  
 The government is prepared to cede “pretty much
everything” to end the saga, the Herald said, citing an
official it didn’t identify.  
 Talk of Compromise  
 Earlier, the Australian Financial Review also said a
compromise could be in the works. The government may move to
reduce the impact of the tax on existing projects while raising
the point at which the levy kicks in from the current 6 percent,
the Review reported without saying where it got the information.  
 Talks could extend throughout the week, Swan told reporters
in Canberra during a late afternoon news conference.  
 “We’re not into megaphone diplomacy, we are sitting down
in good faith discussing matters with a wide range of people,”
Swan said at a news conference outside of Parliament House.  
 BHP shares fell 1.2 percent to A$37.65 at the close of
trading on the Australian stock exchange in Sydney and Rio
declined 2.6 percent to A$66.66. Australia’s currency traded at
85.45 U.S. cents at 4.54 p.m. in Sydney from 84.87 cents in New
York yesterday.  
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Forrest  yesterday said Gillard must make more concessions on the
tax, announced on May 2 by former leader  Kevin Rudd  and Swan.  
 “We had reached a set of points which I think the prime
minister was happy with, the mining industry would have been
prepared to discuss and that was all taken off the table before
it could be announced,” Forrest told reporters in Perth
yesterday. “It was a shame really that it got cut off so
violently.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        