-- Pimco's Gross Say Global Market Returns Are at Threshold of Mediocrity
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-06-30T21:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/global-bond-stock-returns-at-threshold-of-mediocrity-pimco-s-gross-says.html

          
          
             Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
most investors are ignoring signs that “global financial market
returns stand at the threshold of mediocrity.”  
 Bond markets pricing in depression and yielding less than 3
percent are a “forerunner of returns to come,”  Gross wrote in
his July investment outlook posted today on the Newport Beach,
California-based company’s  website.  Stocks face “low single-
digit” prospects as well because they haven’t adjusted to the
slower growth that will come from deleveraging, regulation and
de-globalization, he wrote.  
 “Our ‘new normal’ two-word duality seems to resonate more
on the ‘normal’ than the ‘new’ to economists whose last names
aren’t Roubini, Reinhart, Rogoff, or Rosenberg” Gross wrote.
“It’s as if ‘R’ has been eliminated from the financial
alphabet, and ‘new’ from investors’ dictionaries worldwide.”  
 An overdependence on debt has the global economy entering a
period of fundamental transformation that Gross calls the “new
normal.” Pimco says mounting deficits and tighter financial
regulation will dampen growth in the U.S. and the euro zone for
the next three to five years. Emerging-market nations such as
Brazil and China, with stable levels of government debt and
expanding middle classes, should continue to thrive.  
 Recovery Skeptics  
 Nouriel Roubini , the New York University professor who
predicted the financial crisis, has also forecast a continued
downturn in growth. Gross was also citing  Carmen Reinhart , an
economics professor at the University of Maryland in College
Park who co-wrote “This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of
Financial Folly” with Harvard University’s  Kenneth Rogoff .
 David Rosenberg , the chief economist at Gluskin Sheff &
Associates Inc. in Toronto, and formerly of Merrill Lynch & Co.,
is also in the camp of bearish forecasters.  
 The Federal Reserve said on June 23 at the conclusion of
its two-day policy meeting that the recovery pace is “likely to
be moderate for a time” and said that “financial conditions
have become less supportive of economic growth on balance,
largely reflecting developments abroad.”  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined 7.6 percent in
the first half, after having the biggest annual gain last year
since 2003. More than $7 trillion has been erased from the value
of equities since the April 15 peak of the MSCI World Index of
24 developed nations, on concern Europe’s debt crisis and
China’s efforts to contain inflation will stifle the global
economic recovery.  
 ‘Financial Reaper’  
 The MSCI World Index sank 3.2 percent yesterday, the
biggest drop since April 2009, after a Chinese economic index
was revised lower and U.S. consumer confidence unexpectedly
declined. It declined 0.7 percent today.  
 “We overdid a good thing and now the financial reaper is
at the door, scythe and financial bill in one hand, with the
other knocking on door after door of previously unsuspecting
households and sovereigns to initiate a ‘standard of living’
death sentence,” Gross wrote. “The world is caught up as it
usually is in an ‘every nation for itself’ mentality.”  
 Gross in May boosted holdings of U.S. government-related
debt to the highest level in six months as Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis increased the refuge appeal of the securities.
Treasury securities have returned 5.8 percent this year.  
 The fund’s investment in the debt was increased to 51
percent of assets in May, from 36 percent the previous month,
according to the  website . Gross cut holdings of non-U.S.
developed debt to 6 percent from 13 percent, the lowest since
November and increased emerging market debt to a record 9
percent.  
 The $227.9 billion Total Return Fund managed by Gross
returned 13.10 percent in the past year, beating 61 percent of
its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-
month return is 1.69 percent, outpacing 94 percent of
competitors. Pimco is a unit of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bill Gross who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
