-- GM Plans to Build New Truck in Thailand for Export to Europe, Asia Markets
-- Liza Lin
-- 2010-06-30T05:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/gm-plans-to-build-new-truck-in-thailand-for-export-to-europe-asia-markets.html

          
          
             General Motors Co. plans to build a
new midsize Chevrolet truck in Thailand for export to Europe and
parts of Southeast Asia as the brand makes its first push into
the two regional pickup markets.  
 GM expects to sell at least 100,000 units of the new truck
in the first year, with global production of the vehicle
concentrated in Thailand and Brazil,  Martin Apfel , executive
director for GM’s Southeast Asian operations, said in a phone
interview today.  
 “The logical consequence is to build where the customer
wants it, as that keeps your costs down,” Bangkok-based Apfel
said. Thailand and Brazil are “the two centers of gravity for
midsize trucks,” he said.  
 GM, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. are raising
production in Thailand this year as the global economic recovery
spurs domestic and overseas demand. Auto output in the nation
doubled in the first five months of the year, and the Finance
Ministry raised its 2010 economic growth forecast for the second
time in three months yesterday as soaring exports offset the
impact of recent political unrest.  
 Truck production is part of the Detroit-based carmaker’s
plans to invest $467 million in Thailand. Manufacturing will
start once GM’s deal to assemble a truck with Isuzu Motors Ltd.
there ends, Apfel said, declining to provide more details about
the timing.  
 GM’s plans to build a new diesel-engine plant in eastern
Rayong province are still on track, and the facility, which will
produce engines for the new truck, is in its “last stages” of
completion, he said.  
 Rayong Expansion  
 GM, which makes the one-ton pickup truck Chevrolet Colorado
and the subcompact Chevrolet Aveo at its 165-acre plant in
Rayong, will boost output at the factory to more than 80,000
vehicles this year from 39,800 in 2009, Apfel said.  
 GM received loans from three Thai banks to finance its
expansion plans in Thailand, the company said in January. It
didn’t disclose the amounts.  
 The automaker signed a 13.5 billion baht ($416 million)
loan facility with Bangkok Bank Pcl,  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl 
and Tisco Bank Pcl in December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The loans will mature in 2017.  
 Thai Auto Industry  
 Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Ford have also
built plants in Thailand, Southeast Asia’s second-biggest
economy, lured by tax incentives and demand in the nation of 67
million people. Automakers may produce a record 1.6 million
vehicles in the country this year, 60 percent more than in 2009,
according to Kasikorn Research.  
 Ford said June 24 it will build a $450 million car factory
in Thailand, its first wholly owned plant in the country. The
automaker will make Focus cars for domestic and export markets
at the factory, which is due to open in 2012, it said. The plant
in Rayong will have initial capacity of 150,000 cars a year.  
 GM is also working to reopen a factory in Indonesia within
the next two years to produce a 7-seat vehicle tailored for the
domestic market, Apfel said. The plant in Bekasi, near Jakarta,
has been idle for about five years. It may produce as many as
50,000 vehicles and require about $100 million in new investment,
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        