-- Goldman Sachs Shorted 1% of its Mortgage Bonds, CDOs, Cohn Says
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-06-30T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/goldman-sachs-shorted-1-of-its-mortgage-backed-bonds-cdos-cohn-says.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  bought
protection against a decline in just 1 percent of the mortgage-
backed securities the company underwrote since late 2006,
according to President and Chief Operating Officer  Gary Cohn .  
 “We did not ‘bet against our clients,’ and the numbers
underscore this fact,” Cohn, 49, will tell the  Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission  today, according to his prepared testimony.  
 Goldman Sachs, which set a Wall Street record for a U.S.
securities firm’s profits in 2007, is battling accusations from
regulators, members of Congress and former clients that it
designed mortgage-backed securities it knew would fail and bet
on their collapse by buying credit-default swaps, which pay out
in the event of a default. The commission is set to take Cohn’s
testimony this afternoon in Washington during the first half of
a two-day hearing on practices in the market for derivatives
like credit-default swaps.  
 His testimony begins with an apology to the commission,
which subpoenaed information from Goldman Sachs June 4 as it
complained that the New York-based bank failed to hand over
documents in a “ timely manner ” and didn’t cooperate with
interview requests.  
 “You have stated that we have not been sufficiently
responsive to the FCIC’s requests for information. We apologize
for any failure on our part,” Cohn said in the prepared
remarks.  
 Lawmakers appointed the 10-member FCIC last July to
investigate the causes of the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression. The panel has until December to report its
findings to Congress.  
 Examining Its ‘Bets’  
 Cohn also said in the testimony that the firm examined the
$14.5 billion of collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, and
$47 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities, or RMBS,
the firm underwrote since its executives became wary about the
subprime mortgage market in December 2006.  
 “Given the focus and the seriousness of the charge that
‘bets’ were made against certain clients, we have reviewed every
RMBS and CDO that we underwrote from December 2006 to today,”
Cohn said in the written testimony. “Among other things, we
examined the short positions the firm acquired in connection
with those underwritings.”  
 At the end of June 2007, according to Cohn, the firm held
$2.4 billion of the bonds issued by the RMBS trusts and $2.4
billion of bonds issued by the CDOs. At the same time, Goldman
Sachs had protection representing about 1 percent of the total
amount underwritten.  
 Most of the bonds and derivatives contained in the CDOs --
almost 60 percent -- were from institutions other than Goldman
Sachs, according to the testimony.  
 Defending AIG Deals  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued the bank
in April, claiming the firm defrauded investors such as
Germany’s  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG  by failing to inform
them that a hedge fund had helped design, and was betting
against, a CDO underwritten by Goldman Sachs. Goldman Sachs has
argued that it provided investors with all material disclosures
and that it too lost money on the transaction.  
 Also in his prepared testimony, Cohn defends the firm’s
derivatives arrangements with  American International Group Inc. ,
the insurer whose losses on credit-default swaps led to a
record-setting government bailout. Goldman Sachs stuck to its
risk-management protocols in demanding collateral from AIG and
buying protection against a default by AIG, he said in the
testimony, reiterating the firm’s  position .  
 Bailout Debate  
 The Federal Reserve’s decision in late 2008 to pay New
York-based AIG’s creditors including Goldman Sachs in full has
been criticized by some politicians and analysts as a back-door
bailout of Goldman Sachs and other banks.  
 “When the government intervened, it did so to prevent a
further destabilizing of the financial system by enabling AIG to
meet its contractual obligations,” Cohn said in the prepared
remarks. “While every market participant benefited from the
government’s actions, we took our own steps, from the very
beginning, to protect our shareholders.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gary Cohn of Goldman Sachs  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Gary Cohn, president and chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., arrives to a Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing on the role of derivatives in the financial crisis in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Gary Cohn, president and chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., arrives to a Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing on the role of derivatives in the financial crisis in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
