-- Google to Extend Android to Cheaper Phones in Asia
-- Olga Kharif
-- 2010-06-30T20:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/google-to-extend-android-to-cheaper-phones-in-asia.html

          
          
             Google Inc.  plans to push its
Android mobile software in India and China, and is exploring
ways for developers to make more money from applications,
stepping up competition with Apple Inc. and Nokia Oyj.  
 To attract programmers to its Android operating system,
Google may offer tools that help them sell subscriptions,
virtual goods and other items from within applications on mobile
phones,  Andy Rubin , vice president of engineering at  Google ,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Businessweek.com.  
 The company also aims to put its Android operating system
on lower-priced phones made by Huawei Technologies Co. and LG
Electronics Inc. in parts of Asia and Europe, where it’s taking
on  Nokia , the mobile market leader.  
 “The down market opportunity is about to happen,” Rubin
said. “It’s actually quite a revolution.”  
 Android is part of Google’s strategy to get more of its
software on mobile devices, opening up new opportunities to sell
advertising -- its main source of  revenue . The total mobile-ad
market will grow to $13.5 billion in 2013 from less than $1
billion last year, according to research firm Gartner Inc. in
Stamford, Connecticut.  
 Google, based in Mountain View, California, lags behind
Apple in mobile apps, which are a growing platform for ads and
help attract consumers to devices. Android users have about
 65,000 apps  available, less than a third of the more than
200,000 Apple programs.  
 Adding Users  
 Google  is taking steps to rev up Android’s growth.
Increased presence in new markets such as South Korea helped
drive up the number of users who activated Android devices to
160,000 a day in June, up from 100,000 in May, the company said.
Sixty-nine percent of Android-based phones sold in the first
quarter were in the U.S. market.  
 “We are definitely in the hockey stick,” said Rubin,
referring to Android’s growth pattern.  Gartner  predicts that
Android will leapfrog Apple’s iOS by 2012 to become the world’s
second-most-popular mobile operating system behind Nokia-
supported  Symbian .  
 Google also is increasing incentives for app developers.
It’s exploring ways for programmers to make more money from
their software, such as by making it easier to accept payments
within the apps or sell subscriptions, Rubin said.  
 That provides a way for consumers to purchase new game
levels, virtual weapons and monthly subscriptions to digital
magazines. Apple added similar features to the iPhone in 2009.  
 Fewer Options  
 Most Android developers still make money from ads being
placed within their apps or from one-time fees. That makes it
harder for them to earn as much as their Apple counterparts. Of
the $4.4 billion consumers will spend on apps downloads this
year, Apple’s App Store will receive at least 77 percent of the
revenue, according to  Futuresource Consulting  in Dunstable,
England. Android Market will collect 9 percent.  
 Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  
 Google fell $9.31 to $444.95 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have dropped 28 percent
this year.  
 While businesses like  EBay Inc. ’s PayPal already offer in-
app payments tools for Android developers, dealing with multiple
companies increases the complexity, Rubin said. Since starting
its in-app payments tool on May 19, PayPal has had more than
1,000 developers download it, said  Osama Bedier , a vice
president at PayPal. Most of the developers came from China.  
 Chinese Manufacturers  
 Google is also helping handset makers like Huawei in China
and LG in South Korea offer cheaper Android-based smartphones,
Rubin said. Huawei, the biggest maker of wireless equipment for
carriers in China, unveiled four Android phones and an Android-
based tablet in February.  
 By getting more of its software on phones in China, the
potential for increased ad revenue would help offset any sales
lost in the event the Chinese government doesn’t renew Google’s
license to operate its Internet search engine in the country.  
 Smaller Chinese manufacturers, which make up about 10
percent of the global phone supply, are also adopting Android,
seeking to gain share with lower-priced devices.  
 Many pin their aims on Taiwan-based  MediaTek Inc. , which
supplies chips for ultra-cheap phones sold in Asia, Africa and
South America. The company has joined the Open Handset Alliance,
the group that promotes Android, Google said. MediaTek-based
devices may cost carriers as little as $70 each, said  Carolina Milanesi , an analyst at Gartner. Today, the cheapest Android
phones cost carriers about $200, while low-cost Symbian devices
run about $170, she said.  
 Nokia Challenge  
 As more lower-priced phones come to market, more carriers
will offer the devices to consumers for free. That could boost
the adoption of Android, especially in emerging markets like
India and China.  
 That adoption will help position Android against  Nokia .
While the Espoo, Finland-based company holds only a fraction of
the U.S. market, it is the leading phone maker globally.  
 “As Android develops, the main vendor who is going to feel
the pressure is Nokia,” Milanesi said.  
 In the first quarter, more than 41 percent of smartphones
shipped worldwide were powered by Symbian, the software used on
most  Nokia  handsets. Almost 16 percent used Apple’s operating
system and 10 percent ran Android, according to consulting firm
 ABI Research  in Oyster Bay, New York.  
 Nokia says it has the brand and products to maintain its
market share in Europe and Asia.  
 “Nokia has developed locally relevant solutions that
consist of affordable mobile phones and applications, designed
and built from the ground up to meet the specific needs of
customers in emerging markets,” spokeswoman  Laurie Armstrong 
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Olga Kharif  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Google to Extend Android to Cheaper Phones in Asia  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Andy Rubin, vice president of engineering for Google Inc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Andy Rubin, vice president of engineering for Google Inc. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- John Hodulik, an analyst at UBS Securities LLC, talks about the outlook for AT&T Inc. losing exclusive rights to carry Apple Inc.'s iPhone and the impact on the wireless industry.
     Hodulik talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
