-- Google Awaits Fate in China as Internet License Deadline Looms
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-06-30T13:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/google-awaits-china-fate-as-deadline-looms-for-license-to-operate-website.html

          
          
             Google Inc.  is awaiting its fate in
China after the search-engine operator submitted a revised
proposal to keep its Internet license in the world’s biggest Web
market by users.  
 Google, which in January sparked a standoff with China by
saying it would stop self-censorship, said yesterday it
submitted a revised license application before today’s deadline.
The company will point users to an unfiltered Hong Kong site
instead of redirecting them automatically after authorities
indicated they wouldn’t renew the permit, it said.  
 The dispute has cost Google market share and partnerships
with  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.  and Motorola Inc. in the
country. The operator of the world’s most-used search engine
said in January it would end cooperation with the censorship
laws of a state that bans references to content deemed
politically unacceptable.  
 “We believe the slightly diminished experience will cause
some user loss, but expect Google to remain in China and
continue to play the censorship chess match with the Chinese
government,”  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in
Minneapolis, said in a research note. “The Chinese government
wants to promote social stability and an outright shutdown of
Google would not achieve the goal of stability.”  
 Authorities will review the Google issue, Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Qin Gang  said at a briefing in Beijing yesterday.
Foreign Internet companies should comply with Chinese law, he
said.  
 Likely Block  
 The government is likely to block Google’s license because
the new landing page isn’t that different from what Google did
with the site redirection, said  Aaron Kessler , an analyst with
ThinkEquity LLC in San Francisco. The government would rather
work within the license process than just shut Google’s site
down, he said.  
 The new arrangement currently covers “a subset of users,”
Google spokeswoman  Jessica Powell  wrote in an e-mail today. It
will cover all users “over the next 48 hours,” she said. The
approach allows Mountain View, California-based Google to “stay
true” to a commitment not to self-censor search results in China
while adhering to local law, Google said yesterday on its blog.  
 Lost Market Share  
 Google in March closed its China search engine and began
directing users to the Hong Kong site. The shift led its market
share in China to fall to 30.9 percent in the first quarter from
35.6 percent three months earlier, according to data from
research firm Analysys International. Baidu’s share increased to
64 percent from 58.4 percent, according to Analysys.  
 Baidu  has jumped 64 percent in U.S. trading this year,
outperforming other Chinese Internet stocks, as the scaling back
of Google’s operations in China helped the Beijing-based company
gain sales.  Google  rose $1.95 to $456.21 at 9:41 a.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It had dropped 27 percent
this year before today.  
 By moving the Chinese service offshore, Google avoided
local rules for websites to self-censor content deemed
unacceptable by the government. Search results served by
Google’s redirected site have since been screened by China’s so-
called “Great Firewall,” the monitoring system operated by
government censors to block overseas services such as Facebook
Inc. and Google’s YouTube.  
 ‘Great Firewall’  
 The “Great Firewall” limits Chinese Web users’ access to
information on topics ranging from Tibet’s independence to the
1989 crackdown on democracy protesters in Tiananmen Square.  
 For Google, a closure of the Chinese site would end four
years of clashes with the government over censorship and
highlight the challenges global companies face operating in a
one-party state that controls the flow of information.  
 The company in January said it would stop censoring content
after its computers were hacked from within China. The company
said then its systems were targeted by “highly sophisticated”
attacks aimed at obtaining proprietary information, as well as
personal data belonging to human-rights activists who use the
company’s Gmail e-mail service.  
 Google would have generated $600 million in annual sales
this year in China, according to estimates by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in January. That’s about  2 percent  of the company’s
projected total revenue this year, according to the average of
28 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 China had 384 million Internet users at the end of 2009, the
government estimates. That’s more than the total U.S.
population. The number may grow to 840 million, or 61 percent of
the Chinese population, by 2013, according to EMarketer Inc. in
New York.  
 “If Google wants to continue operating in China, it will
have to get used to more vacillations from the authorities, said
 Charles Mok , chairman of the Hong Kong branch of the Internet
Society, an international industry body. ‘‘In this confrontation
between Google and the Chinese government, there are quite a few
instruments at the disposal of the government that could be
brought to bear on Google.’’  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Larry Page, president of products and co-founder of Google, right, and Sergey Brin, president of techonology and co-founder, pause during a conference in Sun Valley in this file photograph. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Linda Yueh, an economist at Oxford University, talks about Google Inc.'s bid to keep its Internet license in China, the world’s biggest Web market by users.
     Yueh speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Ben McLannahan of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about the outlook for Google Inc.'s Internet license in China. 
     Google may lose the right to operate a website in China, forcing the search-engine operator to abandon the world's largest Internet market, after the government objected to its efforts to avoid censorship controls. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
