-- Google Told to Restore Listing for French Mapping-Services Provider Navx
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-06-30T14:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/google-is-told-by-french-antitrust-regulator-to-return-navx-to-adwords.html

          
          
             Google Inc. , the world’s largest
Internet search provider, must restore an advertising listing
for French mapping service provider Navx during an investigation
by France’s antitrust regulator.  
 Google’s decision to remove Navx from the AdWords Internet
platform “brutally and profoundly affected the revenues” of
Navx, the Autorite de la Concurrence said today in an  online
statement . The regulator said the policies for AdWords, which
links Website searches to ads, need to be more transparent.  
 Google is entangled in regulatory disputes in several
countries related to online searches, advertising and maps. The
Mountain View, California-based company said June 4 it will
provide French, German and Spanish authorities with data that
was mistakenly collected from Wi-Fi networks while developing
the Street View photograph feature for its mapping service.  
 Google “must be regarded as holding a dominant position in
the search-linked advertising market,” the regulator said,
noting 90 percent of French searches used Google.  
 That prominence means an immediate response was needed
while the regulator probed Navx’s complaint, the agency said.
The AdWords policies “were put in place by Google in a way that
lacked objectivity and transparency and could lead to the
discriminatory treatment” of competitors, it said.  
 ‘Interim’ Measures  
 “This ruling requests two types of ‘interim’ measures: the
temporary reactivation of Navx’s account and ‘clarifications’ of
the application of our AdWords content policies,” Google
spokesman  William Echikson  said in an e-mailed statement. “A
final ruling remains to be issued, and we remain confident of a
positive outcome.”  
 Google gets about 97 percent of its almost $24 billion in
annual revenue from online advertising, with the remainder
coming from licensing and other sources, according to Bloomberg
data.  
 Navx , based in the Paris suburb of Levallois-Perret,
provides information like gas prices and speed camera locations
to companies including  TomTom NV , Europe’s biggest maker of
portable navigation devices. The French antitrust regulator
began considering the case in February after a Navx complaint.  
 The decision “is an important precedent” because it
treats keyword advertising as a distinct market, Navx lawyer  Ron Soffer  said. “It’s an extremely positive decision.”  
 Google has five days to restore Navx’s listing, and four
months to clarify its AdWords policies, notably procedures for
delisting companies from the service, the regulator said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        