-- Government May Auction Indian Shale-Gas Areas in a Year to Boost Reserves
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-06-30T10:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/government-may-auction-indian-shale-gas-areas-in-a-year-to-boost-reserves.html

          
          
             India, beaten by China in the race
for energy assets across the world, plans to offer shale-gas
areas for exploration for the first time, the nation’s oil
regulator said.  
 The government will appoint an expert by early July to
assess potential reserves and then create rules to tap
unconventional energy sources before auctioning areas in about a
year,  S.K. Srivastava , director general of hydrocarbons, India’s
exploration regulator, said in an interview in New Delhi today.  
 Preliminary estimates show India’s shale-gas reserves may
be larger than its proven conventional gas deposits, said  P.K.
Bhowmick , president of the country’s Association of Petroleum
Geologists. India plans to join a boom in shale-gas exploration
that has fueled more than $39 billion of acquisitions in the U.S.
by companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. , Royal Dutch Shell Plc
and  Reliance Industries Ltd.   
 “Companies are interested in expanding their global
portfolios in shale gas as it is a big revolutionary step,”
said Thomas Grieder, a London-based analyst at market
intelligence firm IHS Global Insight. “Everyone will be looking
at places like India with interest. It will depend on whether
regulations are solid and implemented consistently.”  
 India will need to change exploration laws for shale gas to
be produced because current exploration licenses don’t include
unconventional sources, Srivastava said. The changes will have
to be approved by the nation’s Cabinet.  
 Need to Run  
 “We have to run now, we can’t just walk,” Srivastava said.
“We don’t yet know the extent of our reserves and we hope to
put everything together within a year.”  
 Supply of natural gas in India lags behind demand as the
nation seeks to cut air pollution and as power plants and
fertilizer users seek to replace more expensive naphtha and
imported liquefied natural gas with cheaper domestic fuel. Gas
demand may rise to 120 billion cubic meters a year by 2015 from
62 billion currently,  B.C. Tripathi , chairman of GAIL India Ltd.,
said June 24.  
 The nation faces an energy shortfall of 55 percent by 2030
as demand more than doubles to the equivalent of 1.3 billion
metric tons of oil, according to the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency .  
 Asia’s third-biggest energy consumer also needs to work out
how companies that produce shale gas will share profit with the
government, Srivastava said.  
 ONGC Study  
 Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , India’s biggest energy exploration
company, awarded a 1.2 billion rupee ($26 million) contract to
 Schlumberger Ltd.  in April to drill for shale gas in east India,
according to Chairman  R.S. Sharma . Drilling wells to assess the
reserves may be completed by the end of this year, he said.  
 “Shale rocks have been found in Gujarat, Assam,
Jharkhand,” Sharma said June 25. “We have to study the extent
of the reserves and the economics of producing it.”  
 The shale rock found in India is similar to those in the
U.S., Bhowmick said. The cost of producing the gas may be
different because the rocks are found deeper in the ground in
India than in the U.S., he said.  
 “The rocks are definitely gas-charged,” Bhowmick said.  
 India has gas reserves of 39.4 trillion cubic feet compared
with 244.7 trillion cubic feet in the U.S. at the end of 2009,
according to the BP Statistical Review.  
 Land, Pollution  
 Problems with land ownership and concerns that drilling for
shale gas can pollute ground water may force the government to
hold back some shale-gas blocks. Steel projects worth more than
$80 billion, including those of  ArcelorMittal  and  Posco , have
stalled in Orissa and Jharkhand states because of protests by
villagers and approval delays.  
 Shale-gas drilling uses a process known as fracking, which
blasts water mixed with chemicals into a well to break the rock
and release gas, polluting ground water.  
 “There is some controversy over the impact the chemicals
in the drilling fluid have on the water table,”  Michael Liebreich , chief executive officer of Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said by telephone from London. “There are ways to
prevent the pollution but the problem is we’re human. India has
to avoid riskier, populated areas.”  
 Reliance Industries, operator of India’s biggest gas field
in the Bay of Bengal, has spent $3 billion to buy shale gas
assets in the U.S. This will help the explorer bring the
knowledge to India, said Sara Pourghorbani, an Edinburgh-based
analyst with Wood Mackenzie.  
 Global Explorers  
 “Shale-gas development has become economical,” Srivastava
said. “Technology is available off the shelf now.”  
 India hasn’t been successful in attracting global explorers
to its auctions of conventional oil and gas blocks aimed at
raising domestic output to cut imports. The nation’s oil import
bill climbed six-fold in the past decade to $85.47 billion in
the year ended March, equivalent to about 7 percent of gross
domestic product.  
 “Large companies have tended to stay away from Indian
auctions because they are usually cautious of regulatory
frameworks,” IHS’s Grieder said. “India now has to develop
regulations, including for pricing and supply of gas, that will
attract international players.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        