-- MGPA May Double Japan Assets Over 5 Years, CEO Says (Correct)
-- Kathleen Chu
-- 2010-07-02T09:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/mgpa-may-double-japan-property-assets-over-five-years-ceo-treacy-says.html

          
          
             (Corrects story published June 30 to remove reference to
where MGPA is based in second paragraph.)  
 MGPA, a private-equity real estate
investment firm that manages $10 billion, said it may double its
assets in Japan over the next five years as values are becoming
attractive after price declines.  
 There are opportunities to refurbish and upgrade office
buildings in Tokyo, Hong Kong-based Simon Treacy, the newly
appointed chief executive officer, said in an interview
yesterday. MGPA, part owned by Macquarie Group Ltd., manages $2
billion of assets in Japan, he said.  
 MGPA is looking to benefit from a recovery in the nation’s
property market after land prices fell to the lowest in at least
36 years, and as the population in Tokyo rises. Commercial land
prices declined 6.1 percent in 2009, while the number of people
in Tokyo rose to 12.9 million last year from 2008, government
figures showed.  
 “Tokyo itself represents a good investment destination
mainly because of its strong economic and population growth,”
said Treacy, who is set to replace Jim Quille, who founded the
firm, in September. “Consequently, real estate demand should
still be quite robust over the medium term.”  
 Property in Japan also looks attractive at a time when
governments in other parts of the region introduce measures to
cool their real estate markets, Treacy said.  
 ‘Lagging Asia’  
 “Japan is probably lagging the rest of Asia in terms of
real estate value and real estate rents,” said Treacy.  
 Office rents in Tokyo are near the end of a decline cycle,
whereas rents are rising in Hong Kong, Beijing, Shanghai, Sydney
and Manila, according a report by Chicago-based commercial real
estate broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  
 The average price per condominium in the Tokyo region rose
1 percent in May from a month earlier, after a drop of 8.9
percent in April, according to a report by Tokyo-based Real
Estate Economic Research Institute.  
 China’s home prices jumped 12.4 percent across 70 cities in
May, adding to the 12.8 percent surge in April that was the most
since the data series began in 2005, while private residential
sales in Singapore rose to a nine-month high in April.  
 China has restricted pre-sales by developers, curbed loans
for third-home purchases, raised minimum mortgage rates, and
tightened down-payment requirements for second-home purchases to
curb surging prices. Hong Kong has pledged to increase land
supply to curb housing prices that have risen 5.7 percent this
year, adding to 2009’s 29 percent advance.  
 REIT Recovery  
 Japan’s property market also is set to recover with a
pickup in activity by real estate investment trusts and
improvement in property financing, Treacy said.  
 The country’s 38 publicly traded real estate investment
trusts more than doubled property purchases in the first quarter
to 229 billion yen ($2.6 billion) from the same period last year,
according to IB Research and Consulting Inc., a Tokyo-based
research firm.  
 “The REIT market in Japan has started to come back to
life,” said Treacy. “Banks have started to lend again on a
very selective basis whereas in the previous 18 months, they
focused on refinancing the existing loans they had with
borrowers.”  
 MGPA is 49 percent-owned by Macquarie Group, Australia’s
largest investment bank. More than half of MGPA’s investment is
in Asia and the rest is in Europe, according to Treacy.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        