-- Senator Grassley Seeks Data From Drugmakers on Treatment of Whistleblowers
-- David Voreacos
-- 2010-07-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/grassley-seeks-data-from-pfizer-lilly-on-how-whistleblowers-are-treated.html

          
          
             U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley  asked
16 drugmakers, including  Pfizer Inc. ,  AstraZeneca Plc  and  Eli
Lilly & Co. , to reveal how they treat whistleblowers who file
complaints under the False Claims Act.  
 Grassley, an Iowa Republican, sent letters June 28 that
posed eight questions such as how companies notify employees of
the law, how they treat whistleblowers and what changes they
have made in response to a 2009 law extending anti-retaliation
protections. Grassley’s office provided copies of the letters.  
 The False Claims Act lets private citizens sue on behalf of
the government and share in any recovery. Whistleblowers were
paid $2.39 billion from 1987 to 2009, or 16 percent of the
$15.19 billion collected in False Claims lawsuits in which the
U.S. government joined the case, according to the Justice
Department.  
 “What measures does Pfizer have in place to ensure fair
treatment to those filing complaints?” Grassley wrote to Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Kindler . “Of employees who have filed
complaints, have any complained of unfair treatment and/or
retaliation after the filing of the complaint?”  
 The False Claims Act was passed by Congress in 1863 and
strengthened three times since 1986. Citizens file so-called qui
tam cases that remain sealed from public view as the Justice
Department investigates the claims and decides whether to join
the suit. Twenty-five U.S.  states  have their own versions of the
law.  
 Large Settlements  
 Drugmakers have reached some of the largest settlements in
recent years. Pfizer agreed to pay $2.3 billion over improper
drug marketing, Lilly paid more than $1.6 billion to settle
claims over its marketing of the drug Zyprexa, and AstraZeneca
paid $520 million over marketing of its drug Seroquel.  
 Chris Loder , a spokesman for New York-based Pfizer, the
world’s biggest drugmaker, said the company is responding to the
letter and “shares the senator’s desire to detect and report
any false claims that may lead to unnecessary costs to our
health-care system.”  
 Pfizer, he said, has invested “substantial resources” to
“create a compliance program that consists of mandatory
training for every one of our employees, proactive monitoring
and surveillance, and strict enforcement of all federal and
state health-care laws.”  
 The company also has a chief compliance officer reporting
to the CEO, a corporate compliance committee, a code of conduct,
a compliance hotline and extensive procedures to investigate and
remediate possible non-compliance, he said.  
 Anonymous Reports  
 Tony Jewell , a U.S. spokesman for London-based AstraZeneca,
the U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker, said the company encourages
its employees to report any instances of misconduct through
various channels, including anonymously.  
 “We respond to all complaints of wrongdoing through prompt
investigations and appropriate remedial action,” he said.
“Retaliation of any kind is explicitly prohibited under our
policies.”  
 Edward Sagebiel , a spokesman for Indianapolis-based Lilly,
confirmed that the company received the senator’s letter.  
 “We will be cooperating fully with this request for
information,” he said.  
 Grassley was a sponsor of the Fraud Enforcement and
Recovery Act passed last year, which restored powers under the
False Claims Act that had been narrowed by court rulings. The
new law limited the ability of companies to avoid liability
under the False Claims Act and made it easier for the Justice
Department to issue civil investigative demands, a type of
subpoena power, in pursuing cases.  
 ‘Public Responsibility’  
 “My appeal to drugmakers is based on the fact that they
have a public responsibility to safeguard the tax dollars that
pay for their products, and promoting a culture where those who
speak up about possible fraud are rewarded rather than
retaliated against is one way to fulfill that responsibility,”
Grassley said in a statement. “There can never be too many
taxpayer watchdogs, so I see this letter as an opportunity to
foster a mindset that recognizes the value of whistleblowers and
the duty these companies have to act honestly when seeking
taxpayer dollars.”  
 Whistleblowers are routinely exposed to retaliation and
blackballing from their industries, said  Patrick Burns , a
spokesman for Taxpayers Against Fraud, a Washington non-profit
advocate for the False Claims Act.  
 “The goal for companies is to isolate, humiliate, and
terminate,” Burns said. “They want to send a signal to anyone
else in the company that this is what happens to you -- you will
lose your job, you may lose your house, you may end up with a
dissolved marriage.”  
 The Justice Department is investigating almost 1,000
whistleblower cases filed under seal, Assistant Attorney General
 Tony West  said in an interview on June 3.  
 In the letters, Grassley, the ranking Republican member of
the Senate Finance Committee, said he expects written responses
to his questions by July 20.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sen. Chuck Grassley  
                       
                         
                           Alex Wong/Getty Images 
                         
                         Sen. Chuck Grassley questioned drugmakers about whistleblowers. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Sen. Chuck Grassley questioned drugmakers about whistleblowers. Photographer: Alex Wong/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
