-- Guinea Supreme Court Says Presidential Election Results Delayed by 2 Days
-- Alpha Camara
-- 2010-06-30T17:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/guinea-supreme-court-says-presidential-election-results-delayed-by-2-days.html

          
          
             The release of results from Guinea’s
presidential election has been delayed by two days, until July
2, the Supreme Court said today in a statement handed to
reporters in the capital, Conakry.  
 The national electoral commission yesterday had set a
deadline of this evening for regional officials to submit their
results from the June 27 vote, which was intended to restore
civilian rule in the world’s top bauxite producer.  
 Twenty-four candidates competed in the election, a year and
a half after army Captain  Moussa Dadis Camara  seized power in
the West African nation following the death of former President
 Lansana Conte , who ruled for two decades. Guinea hasn’t had a
democratic transfer of power since it gained independence from
France in 1958.  
 The election was “a heroic achievement considering the time
constraints, inexperience and infrastructural challenges,”
former Nigerian President  Yakubu Gowon , joint leader of the U.S.
Carter Center’s observer mission to Guinea, told reporters
yesterday. No evidence of “fraud or malicious intent” was found
by the observers, he said.  
 Turnout was about 80 percent, Taran Diallo, head of
governance of the National Council of Civil Society
Organizations of Guinea, said the day after the election.  
 Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, used to make aluminum, more than 4 billion tons of
“high-grade” iron ore, “significant” diamond and gold
deposits, and uranium, according to the U.S. State Department’s
 website . The  African Development Bank  estimates that 53 percent
of the Guinea’s 10.3 million people live in poverty.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alpha Camara  in Conakry at 
 acamara4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        