-- Chimay Pleads Not Guilty to Grand Larceny, Forgery
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-07-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/guy-de-chimay-pleads-not-guilty-in-new-york-to-grand-larceny-forgery.html

          
          
             New York money manager  Guy de Chimay ,
who claims to be related to royalty in Belgium, pleaded not
guilty to charges that he stole millions of dollars in client
funds.  
 Chimay, 47, chairman and chief investment officer of Chimay
Capital Management Inc., appeared in New York state Supreme
Court in Manhattan after being extradited from North Carolina,
where he was arrested June 11 on a New York warrant, according
to the Manhattan District Attorney’s office.  
 “Chimay perpetrated a large-scale fraud on trusting
investors,” said Manhattan District Attorney  Cyrus Vance  in a
statement. “His scheme involved all manner of deceit -- he lied
about who he was, how he was managing his clients’ finances, and
he even forged bank documents to back up his bogus story.”  
 Chimay was charged with grand larceny, attempted grand
larceny, forgery, criminal possession of a forged instrument and
a felony violation of general business law. If convicted of the
top count of grand larceny, he faces as much as 25 years in
prison.  
 He’s accused of running a Ponzi scheme that stole almost $7
million from several victims, according to the district
attorney’s office. Chimay used the money to pay credit card
bills, his summer rental home in the Hamptons section of Long
Island, his mortgage, car payments, a redeeming investor in his
hedge fund and other investors.  
 No Bail  
 Manhattan Assistant District Attorney Aaron Wolfson asked
New York state Supreme Court Justice Gregory Carro to order
Chimay to be held without bail, and Carro agreed.  
 “He denies any fraud,” Chimay’s attorney David Liebman
told the judge, asking him to set bail at about $400,000.  
 “This appears to be an extensive theft of over $7
million,” Carro said. “You recovered a computer that had
forged documents on it,” he told prosecutors. Chimay “appears
to have the ability to create false documents,” the judge said.
“I’m not sure any bail would ensure his return to face these
charges.”  
 Carro scheduled the state case for Aug. 4. Lawyers for the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission served him with
subpoenas for a deposition and hearing on July 16th in the
Southern District of New York.  
 “At this point we’re aware of $7 million,” Wolfson told
the judge. “There are people out there who are currently
destitute because of the lies and deceit of this defendant.”  
 Wolfson also said in court that de Chimay attempted to
steal $15 million from a major New York financial institution,
without naming the institution.  
 Hedge Fund Probe  
 Wolfson also said the D.A.’s office was “pursuing an
investigating into his hedge fund activities.”  
 In asking for Chimay to be remanded, Wolfson said it was
“unclear as to how to get in touch with him.” He said Chimay
has no permanent address in the New York area, that he moved out
of his home on 37th Street in Manhattan in January with no
forwarding address, and that he gave the 37th Street address to
his civil attorney though he doesn’t live there. Chimay has dual
U.S. and Canadian citizenship.  
 There are several civil cases against Chimay in the
Southern District of New York, and attorneys have had trouble
serving him, Wolfson said.  
 Chimay waived extradition on June 21 and was returned to
New York on June 29.  
 The SEC separately sued Chimay June 11, alleging he and his
firm touted investments he claimed were tied to the Chimay royal
family of Belgium and that he stole millions to help pay for his
divorce. The SEC also obtained an emergency court order to
freeze the assets of Chimay and his firm.  
 Royal Family  
 Chimay Capital claimed to be the U.S. investment arm of the
royal family based in the Chimay region of Belgium and dating to
the 14th century, according to the SEC.  
 Chimay solicited money from October 2008 to September 2009
for a bridge facility that he said would make lucrative short-
term loans to firms with ties to the Belgian royal family, the
SEC said in its  complaint . There is no evidence that any loans
were made and some funds were used to pay off disgruntled
investors in Chimay’s other business ventures, the agency said.  
 In December, Chimay sought a multimillion dollar loan,
falsely claiming he had $14 million in liquid assets in a
Bermuda bank account to serve as collateral, the SEC said. In
reality, the account was empty, the agency said.  
 The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Chimay Capital Management Inc., 10-cv-04582, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York.  
 The criminal case is People v. Chimay, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        