-- Microsoft Scraps Kin Device After Poor Sales
-- Dina Bass
-- 2010-06-30T23:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/microsoft-ends-work-on-kin-mobile-phone-to-focus-on-windows-phone-software.html

          
          
             Microsoft Corp.  scrapped the new Kin
social-networking smartphone because sales fell well short of
the company’s expectations, a person with knowledge of the
decision said.  
 The phone’s high price contributed to lackluster demand,
said the person, who declined to be named because the
discussions were private.  Microsoft  announced plans to end work
on the Kin earlier today, saying it would focus on Windows Phone
software. The device debuted less than two months ago.  
 Kin, sold through Verizon Wireless, marked  Microsoft ’s
first major foray into the hardware design of a mobile phone. It
was part of a dual strategy of developing its own phone while
working on new Windows software for other companies’ handsets.
Verizon’s price cuts of the Kin on June 28 may have come too
late to save the phone.  
 “Sales weren’t going that well at Verizon, so better to
kill it than have it fester on,” said  Ken Dulaney , a Gartner
Inc. analyst in Redwood City, California. “Verizon did a very
poor job advertising this thing. The price of the data plan was
a killer.”  
 Verizon required an unlimited data plan for $29.99, plus a
voice plan. The phones were released May 6 online and went on
sale in stores May 13. Those models will remain available.  
 “We will continue to work with Verizon in the U.S. to sell
current Kin phones,” Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said
in a statement.  
 Brenda Raney , a spokeswoman for Basking Ridge, New Jersey-
based Verizon Wireless, said the Kin “is still an important
part of our portfolio.”  
 Lower Price  
 Verizon cut the price of the Kin One to $29.99 from $49.99,
with a $100 discount and a two-year contract. The price of the
Kin Two, which has a larger screen and takes sharper photos, was
reduced to $49.99 from $99.99.  
 The Microsoft team working on the product has been folded
into the Windows Phone unit, the company said today. A planned
release of the devices in  Europe  has been canceled.  
 Microsoft will now focus its attention on its mobile
operating system, which has been losing market share to software
from Apple Inc. and  Google Inc.  Mobile-phone makers will begin
offering devices with Windows Phone 7, a complete overhaul of
the software, later this year. It’s critical that those phones
fare better than the Kin, Dulaney said.  
 “The big bet is on Windows Phone 7 -- if they don’t get
that right, they’re in big trouble,” he said. The Kin “was a
sidecar effort.”  
 Microsoft’s Windows operating system accounted for 6.9
percent of the worldwide smartphone-software market in the first
quarter, down from 10.8 percent a year earlier, according to
Michael Morgan, an analyst at  ABI Research . Shipments of the
iPhone rose to 15.8 percent, while Android-based phones took 9.9
percent.  
 Microsoft’s decision was reported earlier by Gizmodo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.netdbass 2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        