-- Tiger Woods Says PGA Tour Event Is Lucky to Still Have AT&T Sponsorship
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-30T19:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/tiger-woods-says-pga-tour-event-is-lucky-to-still-have-at-t-sponsorship.html

          
          
             When  Tiger Woods  tees off tomorrow
at the AT&T National tournament, which benefits his own
charitable foundation, he will be without the support of the
event’s actual sponsor.  
 AT&T Inc. , the largest U.S. phone company, ended the
individual endorsement agreement it had with Woods on Dec. 31
after details about his admitted marital infidelity began to
emerge. Woods no longer carries the AT&T logo on his bag or
serves as the event’s official host, a change that also
coincided with the company’s decision to end its relationship
with him in December.  
 “Well, I’m still part of the event and working hard behind
the scenes as always,” Woods said in a press conference
yesterday at  Aronimink Golf Club , about 20 miles west of
Philadelphia. “We’re very lucky and very excited that the AT&T
wanted to still be a part of this event.”  
 AT&T began a multiyear deal with Woods in February 2009 to
place its logo on his golf bag. The company also served as title
sponsor of Woods’s annual  Tiger Jam  benefit  concerts  in Las
Vegas. That contract expired after last year’s event and the
company declined to renew the agreement.  
 The Dallas-based carrier maintained its financial support
for the U.S. PGA Tour event primarily because it provides
“marketing opportunities” and benefits several charities,
including those of Woods, AT&T spokesman  Larry Solomon  said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  
 Solomon declined to say how much the company spends on its
title sponsorship of the event, which features a $6.2 million
purse. A typical sponsor covers the tournament’s purse along
with another $1 million in related operational costs.  
 Sponsorship Difference  
 Solomon also declined to address whether there may be a
conflict with AT&T sponsoring a tournament so closely tied to
Woods, whose image and reputation has plummeted since his off-
course scandal.  
 “I wouldn’t want to venture any comments on that,” he
said. “The reason we sponsor the tournament is because it’s a
great marketing opportunity and it’s an opportunity for us to
help benefit the charities involved and honor the military
personnel. That’s why we sponsor the tournament.”  
 While Woods, 34, no longer has the financial backing of
AT&T, his foundation, which recently announced plans to expand
with two new  Tiger Woods Learning Centers  in the Washington
area, does. That is more important than an individual
endorsement contract, Woods said.  
 Lost Endorsements  
 “If you’re going to have one over the other, you choose it
this way,” said Woods, who has also lost endorsement agreements
with  Accenture Plc   and PepsiCo Inc.’s Gatorade brand. “We’re
trying to help as many kids as we possibly can, and this is the
way to do it, to bring awareness to the foundation.”  
 Emily Taylor, a spokeswoman for the Tiger Woods Foundation
said there have been no discussions on whether AT&T would extend
its sponsorship of the tournament beyond its current contract,
which expires in 2014.  
 “We’re hopeful we can continue a relationship with them as
a title sponsor,” Taylor said in an interview yesterday. “For
them, continuing with us was about their belief in what the
foundation is doing. They were working with us before they were
working with Tiger directly.”  
 Taylor said having a tournament sponsored by a company no
longer willing to support Woods, its defending champion and the
event’s host for its first three years, is “definitely
unique.”  
 U.S. PGA Tour Commissioner  Tim Finchem  said there was no
concern that AT&T would seek to end its sponsorship of the
tournament when it dropped Woods in December.  
 “They obviously monitored the situation,” Finchem said in
a press conference. “They were committed to what the foundation
stands for and to PGA Tour. We have a long, very positive
relationship with AT&T.”  
 AT&T also has been the title sponsor of the PGA Tour event
at California’s Pebble Beach Golf Links since 1986.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania at 
   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        