-- IMF Board May Discuss Debt Relief for Congo Today Amid Mining Dispute
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-06-30T09:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/imf-board-may-discuss-debt-relief-for-congo-today-amid-mining-dispute.html

          
          
             Democratic Republic of Congo’s bid
for billions of dollars in debt relief may be considered by the
International Monetary Fund executive board today, the
Washington, D.C.-based lender said.  
 Congo, which is celebrating its 50th anniversary of
independence from Belgium today, is trying to qualify for relief
under the IMF and World Bank’s Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
initiative. The country’s external debt was $10.9 billion as of
March, according to the central bank, as much as 90 percent of
which could be erased through the program.  
 “We are still considering whether the Board meeting will
take place Wednesday or not,” the IMF said in an e-mailed
statement late yesterday.  
 The World Bank delayed a decision on the debt relief
yesterday at the request of Canada, Reuters reported today,
citing an unidentified official on the bank’s board. In
November, Canadian finance officials delayed a similar decision
by the  Paris Club  of Congo’s creditor nations because of a
contract dispute over Vancouver-based First Quantum Minerals
Ltd.’s Kolwezi copper and cobalt project.  
 Congo canceled the project in August after a global review
of its mining contracts. The company has taken the case to
international arbitration.  
 Canadian Concerns  
 Canada remains concerned about the cancellation of mining
contracts in Congo and wants the international dispute
settlement mechanism to be completed, a spokesman for the
Canadian embassy said yesterday, without saying if the
government had requested the World Bank to delay its decision.  
 The bank’s executive board did not address Congo’s debt
relief request at a meeting yesterday, a bank spokesman said.
The board did discuss a $255 million transport project and a $50
million “for governance and capacity enhancement in the mineral
sector,” Francois Gouahinga of the World Bank’s Africa Region
External Affairs division said in an e-mail.  
 Canada raised the issue of  First Quantum  again last weekend
at the G-8 summit in Ontario province. The group called on Congo
to “extend urgently the rule of law” and “enhance governance
and accountability in the extractive sector” in a June 26
statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        