-- Rupee Completes Worst Quarter in a Year in India as Global Growth Sputters
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-06-30T11:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/india-s-rupee-set-for-worst-quarter-in-a-year-as-global-growth-sputters.html

          
          
             India’s rupee fell, completing its
biggest quarterly decline since March 2009, as signs the global
economic recovery is stalling prompt investors to favor the
perceived safety of the dollar over emerging-market assets.  
 The rupee has lost 3.3 percent since March, the second-
worst performance among Asia’s 10 most-used currencies.
Confidence among U.S. consumers sank more than economists
forecast this month, while household spending and wages in Japan
declined in May, according to reports yesterday and today.  
 “In the short-term, India’s rupee is vulnerable like most
Asian currencies to the global risk aversion,” said  Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-based head of global foreign-exchange
strategy at Credit Agricole CIB. “By the fourth quarter, we
expect this risk aversion to subside and Asian currencies to
rise as the region’s growth outperformance dominates the focus.
This will attract fresh capital inflows back to Asia.”  
 The rupee declined 0.4 percent this week to 46.46 per
dollar as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier touched a two-week low of
46.70.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the Indian currency will trade
at 46.90 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations of 47.08 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  
 The rupee may “trade within a broad range of 46 to 47 to
the dollar in the next few weeks,” Kotecha said. “We see it
heading to 46 by the end of the year.”  
 The rupee also weakened as the South Asian nation’s current
account deficit widened, boosting demand for foreign currency.  
 India’s current account posted a  deficit  of $13 billion for
the quarter ended March 31, more than double the amount
economists expected, a central bank report showed today. The
median forecast of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg news survey was
for a shortfall of $5.75 billion.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Anil Varma  at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        