-- India Loses to China in Africa-to-Kazakhstan-to-Venezuela Oil
-- John Duce
-- 2010-06-30T00:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/india-losing-to-china-in-africa-to-kazakhstan-to-venezuela-oil-purchases.html

          
          
             Indian Oil Minister Murli Deora
traveled to  Nigeria , Angola,  Uganda ,  Sudan ,  Saudi Arabia  and  Venezuela  this year, leading a record number of delegations to
gain oil for the world’s third-fastest-growing major economy.  
 The flurry of visits is part of a new drive to find oil for
India’s 1.2 billion people after losing out to China in at least
$12.5 billion of contracts in the past year. India proposed a
sovereign wealth fund to bid for reserves, told state-controlled
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and  Oil India Ltd . to make a major
acquisition each this year, and raised the amount they can spend
without government approval to 50 billion rupees ($1.1 billion).  
 “There is a new push,” said N.M. Borah, chairman of
state-owned exploration company Oil  India . “Going abroad is
part of the government’s policy -- diplomatic support is very,
very crucial as we search for assets overseas.”  
 India’s energy use may more than double by 2030 to the
equivalent of 833 million metric tons of oil from 2007, while
China’s demand may rise 87 percent to 2.4 billion tons, the
Paris-based International Energy Agency  said .  
 India faces an uneven contest to close the gap with China,
which is dipping into $2.4 trillion of foreign currency reserves
to buy stakes in oil and natural gas fields from Iraq to Uganda,
compared with India’s $250 billion in foreign exchange reserves.
State-run Chinese companies spent a record $32 billion last year
acquiring energy and resources assets overseas versus India’s
single $2.1 billion investment by ONGC.  China ’s June 19 decision
to allow the yuan to appreciate will further strengthen the hand
of Chinese companies buying overseas.  
 India’s oil import bill climbed six-fold in the past decade
to $85.47 billion for the year ended March, equivalent to about
7 percent of gross domestic product.  
 ‘Political Game’  
 “India’s search for energy has to become a more intense
political game, rather than one based entirely on economics,”
said Abheek Barua, an economist at the Mumbai-based HDFC Bank
Ltd. “China has virtually already taken over  Africa .”  
 China has promised billions of dollars in aid, investment
and loans to Africa, producer of one-eighth of the world’s crude
oil, in exchange for energy supplies.  
 “We buy assets based on commercial decisions even though
there is a mandate for securing energy for the country,” R.S. Sharma, chairman and managing director of ONGC said in April.
“The Chinese are different with their big cash. We can’t invest
just for the sake of it.”  
 Stronger Yuan  
 China National Petroleum Corp. beat India by agreeing to
pay $4.18 billion in August 2005 for PetroKazakhstan Inc., then
China’s biggest overseas oil deal. At that time, oil minister
Mani Shankar Aiyar said India’s bid for PetroKazakhstan was
thwarted as the “goalposts were changed after the game began.”
A month later China National Petroleum again outbid ONGC in
buying assets of EnCana Corp. in  Ecuador  for $1.42 billion.  
 A stronger yuan would also make purchases cheaper for the
Chinese. The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it may allow
the yuan to move higher, abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the
dollar adopted during the global financial crisis to shield
exporters. The yuan climbed 0.4 percent to 6.7976 per dollar in
the first trading day after the announcement.  
 India has had some success. ONGC agreed in 2005 to spend as
much as $6 billion on roads, ports, railway lines and power
plants in Nigeria in exchange for 600,000 barrels a day of oil
for 25 years. In April,  Reliance Industries Ltd ., operator of
the country’s largest gas field, agreed to buy a $1.7 billion
stake in natural-gas properties from Atlas Energy Inc. On June
24 it announced a $1.3 billion acquisition of shale gas assets
in the U.S. from  Pioneer Natural Resources Co .  
 More Freedom  
 ONGC, Indian Oil and Oil India were part of a group in
March that agreed to develop reserves in Venezuela’s Carabobo
blocks during a visit by Deora. In February, the minister
persuaded Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, to
almost double crude shipments to India, to about 800,000 barrels
a day, according to the ministry. State-run Saudi Aramco ships
about 1 million barrels a day to China, more than to the U.S.,
Chief Executive Officer Khalid al-Falih said Jan 28.  
 India increased the amount ONGC and some other state-run
companies can spend to acquire assets and set up joint ventures,
allowing them greater freedom to expand and become globally
competitive, the government said in December.  
 “One of the advantages the big Chinese oil companies have
is government support, it’s an open secret,” said Gideon Lo,
an energy analyst at DBS Vickers  Hong Kong  Ltd. “The government
establishes high-level contacts with oil-producing countries.
Once this is done, the oil companies can come in and
negotiate.”  
 Oil Opportunities  
 PetroChina Co., which vies with Exxon Mobil Corp. as the
world’s biggest company by market value, wants half its oil to
come from overseas by 2020, Chairman Jiang Jiemin said in March.
Less than a tenth comes from abroad now.  
 “We will take advantage of opportunities in developing oil,
gas and energy sources in all areas of the world,” Jiang said
in an interview in March.  
   Cnooc Ltd ., the listed arm of China’s biggest offshore oil
producer, is in discussions to buy a one-third stake in three
blocks in Uganda’s Lake Albert region from  Tullow Oil Plc . ONGC
had jointly bid with Indian Oil Corp. and Oil India for the
stake and lost out to the higher Chinese bid, a person familiar
with the negotiations said, declining to be identified because
the talks were private.  
 China has spent at least $21 billion on overseas resources
in the past year, including state-controlled China Petrochemical
Corp.’s $4.65 billion purchase in April of a stake in an oil-
sands project in  Canada . ONGC was interested in the asset and
didn’t bid, a person familiar with ONGC’s plans said, declining
to be identified since the plans were not public.  
 ‘Financial Firepower’  
 ONGC plans to borrow $10 billion over the next decade for
purchasing assets overseas. In September, China National
Petroleum Corp., PetroChina’s state-owned parent, received a $30
billion loan from China Development Bank at a discounted
interest rate to buy energy resources, according to a Sept. 9
statement from parent China National Petroleum Corp.  
 “The financial firepower that the Chinese companies have
is a factor,” Tom Deegan, Hong Kong-based head of energy and
infrastructure at lawyers Simmons & Simmons, said. “They have
access to capital and finance through Chinese banks which have
the liquidity, which perhaps Indian companies don’t.” Deegan
has been advising on M&A deals in  Asia  for 13 years.  
 Adding India to the competition may push prices higher for
hydrocarbon assets, boosting drilling costs that are already
facing an increase in the U.S. after an explosion in April at a
BP Plc-leased drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico released oil
that polluted about 140 miles (225 kilometers) of coastline.  
 Chinese Premium  
 “Chinese companies always have to pay a slight premium to
win oil and gas deals overseas to fend off the competition,”
said  Gordon Kwan , analyst at Mirae Asset Securities in Hong Kong.
“This is just the tip of the iceberg. With talk of the yuan
appreciating this will increase China’s purchasing power.”  
 China Petrochemical, known as Sinopec Group, agreed to buy
a 9 percent stake in Syncrude Canada Ltd. for $4.65 billion, or
$650 million more than the high end of an estimate by Macquarie
Securities.  
 “There’s a market consensus that perhaps Sinopec overpaid
for its stake in oil sands project in Canada, but this is made
on the assumption that oil prices” were around $80 a barrel at
the time, DBS Vickers’s Lo said. “The company may be assuming
that oil prices will rise to over $100 a barrel and this
purchase may turn out to be a bargain.”  
 Replace Reserves  
 Oil in  New York  has risen 0.3 percent in the past year to
$75.62 a barrel. Prices may average $84.50 a barrel in the
fourth quarter of this year, according to the median estimate of
30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Oil has tripled in the past
10 years.  
 Sinopec bought Addax Petroleum Corp. last year for C$8.3
billion ($7.9 billion), gaining licenses in Nigeria, Gabon and
Cameroon. Chinese oil companies also have African assets in
Kenya, Niger, Algeria, Equatorial Guinea, Mauritania, Libya,
Tunisia, Sudan and Chad.  
 Oil companies aim to at least replace used reserves each
year by finding new fields.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ’s shares fell
1.3 percent after the company announced last year that its
reserve replacement ration dropped to 95 percent from 124
percent a year earlier.  
 “Chinese and Indian companies are getting into a
competitive field and that is driving up asset prices,” Neil Beveridge, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in Hong Kong,
who rates PetroChina and Cnooc Ltd. “outperform” and ONGC and
Reliance “market perform”. “That is why a lot of the
companies try and do government-to-government deals. We saw that
in the Indian companies getting a deal in Venezuela this year.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Murli Deora, India's oil minister, after attending a meeting in New Delhi earlier this month. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A drilling rig at an ONGC field in Colombia  
                       
                         
                           ONGC Videsh Ltd. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A drilling rig at an ONGC field in Colombia. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A drilling rig at an ONGC field in Colombia. Source: ONGC Videsh Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     ONGC's crude oil pipeline in Sudan. Source: ONGC Videsh Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An offshore platform in the Lan Tay field in Vietnam, owned partly by BP Plc, ONGC Videsh Ltd. and Vietnamese government-owned Petro-Vietnam. Source: ONGC Videsh Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
