-- Inflation Premiums Decrease on Economic-Growth Pessimism: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-30T04:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/inflation-premium-for-bonds-declines-on-growth-pessimism-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Canada’s real-return bonds show
investors are demanding less of a premium against the risk of
rising consumer prices even as Bank of Canada policy makers say
inflation may accelerate as the economy strengthens.  
 The so-called  breakeven rate  on 10-year bonds, a measure of
what investors predict for consumer price inflation over that
period, fell to 189 basis points yesterday, the lowest level
since Oct. 7. The rate has averaged about 221 basis points since
the 10-year inflation-linked security began trading on its own
on July 21, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  predicted in April that
inflation would exceed his 2 percent target over the next year.
The nation’s consumer price index, the broadest measure of
inflation, may get a boost from a new “harmonized” sales tax
increase in two of Canada’s three largest provinces, according
to  Mohammed Ahmed , a rates strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce in Toronto.  
 “The decline in the breakeven corresponds to the repricing
of global growth expectations,” Ahmed said by instant message.
“Real return bonds may be cheap in the near term, given the
pending boost to CPI from the HST.”  
 The  30-year breakeven rate  ended yesterday at 224 basis
points, close to 223 basis points it reached on June 8, the
lowest since Oct. 13. The rate has averaged 232 basis points
over 10 years, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Breakeven rates, which measure the gap between the yield of
real return bonds and the underlying government benchmark, have
declined since a June 22 Statistics Canada report showed the
year-over-year inflation rate slowed to 1.4 percent in May.  
 Credit Card Trust  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian corporate rather than federal
government tightened to 148 basis points yesterday, from 149
basis points that day before and 154 basis points on June 16,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. Overall
yields fell to 3.916 percent.  
 The Bank of Canada will release further details today about
its auction on July 7 of two-year bonds. The information will be
available on the bank’s  Web site .  
 Canadian Credit Card Trust issued debt backed by credit
card payments. The trust issued C$550 million ($521 million) of
3.444 percent debt with a termination date of Jan. 24, 2018. The
trust also issued C$20.5 million of 4.694 percent notes and
C$16.1 million of 5.944 percent notes.  
 Bank of Canada  
 “Inflation still is not a worry,” said  Michael Gregory ,
senior economist in Toronto at Bank of Montreal. “People are
reassessing the profile for Bank of Canada tightening,” said
Gregory, who predicts an increase at the July 20 policy meeting
and then a “pause” afterwards.  
 Carney on June 1 became the first Group of Seven central
banker to raise  interest rates , increasing the target level to
0.5 percent from a record low 0.25 percent. The statement
accompanying the decision said that further tightening moves
would weigh domestic growth against an uneven global recovery.  
 Canada’s real return bonds have lagged behind nominal bond
returns this year, gaining 3.88 percent, versus 4.50 percent for
sovereigns, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes,
as investors seek shelter in the most liquid of assets from the
European debt crisis.  
 Sales Tax  
 “Even though the credit quality is the same, the liquidity
quality is not the same between inflation bonds and regular
government bonds,”  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist
in New York at BNP Paribas SA, said by instant message. “So
inflation bonds suffer and the break-evens narrow. Investors are
buying a product that trades with less volume and higher bid-ask
costs. It demands a higher yield to compensate for that. This is
one factor that drives breakevens below their fundamental
value.”  
 Ontario and British Columbia, two of Canada’s three largest
provinces, on July 1 will merge their sales tax with the
existing federal levy, making some goods and services taxable
for the first time. The Bank of Canada said April 22 the shift
will boost the annual inflation rate by 0.6 percentage points
over 12 months.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        