-- Iraq, Shell $12.5 Billion Gas Venture May Be Able to Export Fuel by 2015
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-06-30T10:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/iraq-shell-12-5-billion-gas-venture-may-be-able-to-export-fuel-by-2015.html

          
          
             Iraq’s $12.5 billion natural gas
production venture with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  may be able to
start exporting the fuel by 2015 when output from the country’s
southern fields meet domestic demand, the government said.  
 Gas output will probably exceed the nation’s domestic
demand for power generation by 2015 or 2016, according to a
statement for government spokesman  Ali al-Dabbagh  today. Once
achieved, Shell can export the fuel in liquid form, Iraq said.  
 Middle Eastern states are seeking to develop their natural
gas reserves to use the fuel to fire power plants and boost
economic growth. Iraq is still trying, after seven years of
conflict and prior sanctions, to restore power generation
capacity to levels achieved before the U.S.-led military
invasion of 2003.  
 The country’s cabinet yesterday approved the creation of
the Basra Gas Co. joint venture including Shell and  Mitsubishi
Corp.  along with state-owned South Gas Co., which will hold a 51
percent stake in the business. Shell first agreed with the
government in September 2008 on a project to capture associated
gas from Iraq’s southern oil fields with a view to exporting it.  
 Associated gas is pumped in conjunction with crude and the
amount produced is set to rise as the nation increases oil
output. Iraq, which generates most of its revenue from crude
exports, intends to raise output to pay for the refineries,
power plants, and other facilities needed to meet domestic
demand for the fuel and electricity generation.  
 The government awarded foreign companies 11 development
licenses for crude deposits in two rounds of bidding last year,
and it aims to attract investors in three gas areas this year.  
 Burnt Off  
 Shell, which won contracts last year to develop two Iraqi
oilfields, said when announcing the project it aimed to capture
about 700 million cubic feet of gas a day in southern Iraq,
making use of fuel that’s currently burnt off. Total associated
gas production is 1.1 billion cubic feet a day now, with some
used and the rest flared, according to the statement.  
 Southern Iraq’s associated-gas supplies may double within
three years as the country boosts oil output, Shell’s Middle
East Vice President for new business Mounir Bouaziz said in an
interview March 29. Iraq awarded oil-service contracts last year
to international companies that pledged to raise output to 12
million barrels a day within the decade. It pumped 2.37 million
barrels this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Shell has pledged to meet domestic gas demand to fire power
plants, for example, before exporting the fuel as liquefied
natural gas by ship from southern ports.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        