-- Ireland's Economy Resumes Growth After Two-Year Recession as Exports Jump
-- Louisa Fahy
-- 2010-06-30T12:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/irish-economy-resumes-growth-after-two-year-recession-as-exports-jump.html

          
          
             Ireland’s economy expanded for the
first time in more than two years in the first quarter as export
growth countered continued weakness in construction and consumer
spending.  
 The 2.7 percent increase in seasonally adjusted  gross
domestic product  followed a 2.7 percent drop in the previous
three months, the Central Statistics Office said in a statement
published in Dublin today. In the year, the economy contracted
0.7 percent. A separate report showed that jobless claims rose
in June, pushing the  unemployment rate  to 13.4 percent, the
highest since September 1994.  
 Ireland’s economy probably continued to strengthen with a
13 percent drop in the euro over the past year making goods more
competitive abroad. Irish manufacturing expanded for a third
month in May and  consumer confidence  rose this month. The
government still has to deal with the euro region’s biggest
budget deficit after a property slump pushed the country’s
banking system to near collapse and eroded tax income.  
 “Policy makers and indeed the whole population should not
get carried away with the statistical ending of the recession as
complacency would represent a very dangerous enemy,” said  Jim Power , chief economist at Friends First in Dublin. “There is no
option other than to continue with the fiscal adjustment.”  
 Export Jump  
 Exports rose 6.9 percent in the quarter from the previous
three months, the most in three years. Consumer spending fell
0.2 percent and company investment dropped 13.8 percent as the
construction industry continued to shrink. Imports increased 2
percent. On a year-on-year basis, exports rose 5.5 percent,
while consumer spending declined 0.8 percent.  
 “It was the multinational sector, pharmaceuticals and
software in particular, that was the main driver of the increase
in GDP in the first quarter,”  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at
Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in a note. “When this
sector is stripped out, the gross national product measure of
national output was still showing the country in recession.”
McQuaid forecast the economy will grow as much as 1.5 percent
this year, revising an earlier 0.5 percent growth prediction.  
 While larger European nations including Germany, France and
the U.K. exited the recession in 2009, Ireland’s recovery has
been delayed by the domestic property crash, which has seen
real-estate values fall by half in the last three years. The
slump in building helped pull investment down 30 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier.  
 The monthly jobless report showed that seasonally adjusted
 jobless claims  rose 5,800 in June from May to 444,900. From a
year earlier, claims are up 37,200.  
 Ireland’s government forecasts the economy will shrink 1.3
percent this year and expand 3.3 percent in 2011, which would be
the first full-year expansion since 2007.  
 “It’s going to be a difficult and hard road back to
recovery,” Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  told parliament in Dublin
today. “We have to put our public finances in order. Everything
we’re doing is to make sure that we get growth back in this
country.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Brian Cowen, Ireland's prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Jock Fistick/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Brian Cowen, Ireland's prime minister, arrives for the European Summit at the EU headquarters in Brussels on Sept. 17, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Brian Cowen, Ireland's prime minister, arrives for the European Summit at the EU headquarters in Brussels on Sept. 17, 2009. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
