-- Israel's Bezeq, Banks, Energy Stocks Are Sphera Fund Management Top Picks
-- David Wainer
-- 2010-06-30T14:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/israel-s-bezeq-banks-energy-stocks-are-sphera-fund-management-top-picks.html

          
          
             High dividends at  Bezeq Israeli
Telecommunication Corp.  and double-digit return-on-equity at
Israel’s two largest banks may lead to an outperformance of the
shares, according to Sphera Fund Management Ltd.  
 Oil and gas explorers  Avner Oil Exploration LP  and  Delek
Drilling LP  and their parent  Delek Group Ltd.  also are “good
bets” as Israel’s “gas story becomes more and more
solidified,” analyst  David Shrem  said in an interview
yesterday.  
 The hedge fund, which manages about $350 million, holds
stakes in all the companies, said  Ronen Elgali  head of 
research, in a joint interview at the fund’s Tel Aviv office. He
declined to disclose specific holdings.  
 “Bezeq is a top pick because it’s going to keep paying
high dividends as it’s diversified across the board in the
telecommunications industry so its profits are likely not to be
hurt by regulation,” Elgali said.  
 The company, which paid a first-quarter dividend of about
0.917 shekel, is expected to continue yielding dividends of
about 10 percent, he said. Bezeq’s 12-month dividend yield is
among the top four companies in the TA-25 Index, according to
Bloomberg data. Bezeq shares have lost 11 percent  this year .  
 The country’s largest communications company, has fixed-
line and mobile-phone operations in addition to satellite
television and Internet services. Israel’s Ministry of
Communications has proposed cutting inter-connect fees, the
charges that operators make to connect calls to each others’
networks, which may lower profit margins for cell-phone
companies such as Bezeq’s Pelephone unit.  
 ‘Buying Opportunity’  
 As for the banks, they “are cheap and their book value is
low so it’s a buying opportunity,” Elgali said.  
 Shares of  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. , the country’s largest
lender,  lost  9.4 percent this month bringing its  price-to-book
ratio  to 0.9, according to Bloomberg data.  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. ,
the second biggest-bank, declined 3.3 percent in the month,
bringing its  ratio to 0.88 .  
 “Hapoalim can create a return-on-equity ratio of 10
percent very easily,” Elgali said. Hapoalim’s annualized
return-on-equity ratio was 8.8 percent, according to Bloomberg
data.  
 Delek Group, Avner and Delek Drilling, all partners in
Israel’s largest gas prospect Leviathan off the country’s coast,
will gain as the site is likely to yield enough fuel for export,
Shrem said.  
 Houston-based Noble Energy Inc. and the local partners in
the prospect said June 3 the area may hold 16 trillion cubic
feet of gas and has a 50 percent chance of “geologic success.”
They are also partners in the Tamar field, which is expected to
start producing the fuel by the end of 2012 and may hold 8.4
trillion cubic feet of gas.  
 “At the end of the day it depends whether you believe in
the story,” Shrem said. “We think the chances of the
partnership striking gas in Leviathan are very high.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        