-- Italy Business Confidence Declines From Two-Year High Domestic Orders Drop
-- Lorenzo Totaro
-- 2010-06-30T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/italy-business-confidence-declines-from-two-year-high-domestic-orders-drop.html

          
          
             Italian  business confidence  fell
from the highest in almost two years in June as a drop in
domestic orders offset the benefits for exports from the euro’s
slide.  
 The  Isae  Institute’s manufacturing-sentiment index dropped
to 96.1 from a revised 96.4 in May, which was the highest since
June 2008, the Rome-based research center said today in an e-
mailed statement. The June reading matched the  median forecast 
in a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists.  
 “There was a decrease in domestic orders and demand,”
Isae said in the statement. “Manufacturers were pessimistic
about the current levels of production.”  
 Consumer confidence  fell this month to the lowest in 16
months as the highest  unemployment rate  in almost six years made
households more pessimistic, Isae said last week. Still,
 industrial output  increased more than economists forecast in
April as the euro’s 14.5 percent decline against the dollar this
year helps to boost exports.  
 The single currency’s decline will “more than offset” the
impact of the government’s budget cuts over the next two years,
Confindustria, Italy’s biggest employers’ body, said on June 24.
The 24.9 billion euros ($30.5 billion) in budget cuts will shave
0.4 percentage point off the nation’s  gross domestic product  in
2011 and 2012, Confindustria estimates.  
 Pirelli & C. SpA  Chief Executive Officer  Francesco Gori 
said in a June 24 interview that the euro’s weakness against the
dollar had a “moderately positive” impact on the company’s
second-quarter sales. The impact will be greater in coming
quarters if the dollar remains at current levels, he said.  
 Isae, which initially reported a May reading of 96.2,
polled 4,000 companies between June 1 and June 17.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        