-- Japan Wages Resume Declines in Blow for Workers Facing Rising Joblessness
-- Aki Ito
-- 2010-06-30T02:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/japan-s-wages-resume-decline-in-blow-for-workers-facing-rising-joblessness.html

          
          
             Japan’s wages slid for the first
time in three months in May, eroding prospects for an
acceleration in domestic demand and deepening concern that the
global economic recovery will slow.  
 Monthly  wages  including overtime and bonuses dropped 0.2
percent from a year earlier to 267,721 yen ($3,020), the Labor
Ministry said today in Tokyo.  
 The report adds to evidence that consumers are unlikely to
drive Japan’s expansion after figures yesterday showed the
 unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose in May and households cut
spending for a second month. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
tumbled to a seven-month low, extending a global slide after
U.S. consumer confidence dropped.  
 “Concern about a stagnation of Japan’s recovery is
growing,”  Hiroshi Miyazaki , chief economist at Shinkin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo, said before the report. “The global
economy has been recovering at a very fast pace so far, and we
may see an adjustment of that.”  
 The Nikkei slumped 2.1 percent to 9,366.54 at the 11 a.m.
lunch break in Tokyo, heading for the lowest close since Nov.
30. The yen traded close to the strongest level against the
euro in eight years and an eight-week high versus the dollar,
threatening the competitiveness of the exporters who have
propelled the nation’s recovery. The currency’s gains also make
imports cheaper, feeding deflation.  
 Special Pay  
 Special cash earnings, a component that includes bonuses,
plunged 23.6 percent from a year earlier, today’s report showed.
Scheduled pay slipped 0.1 percent. Overtime income gained 10.3
percent from a year earlier, capping five months of increases,
as employers had staff work more hours to meet demand.  
 Spending by households has relied on government incentives
to buy cars and electronics, providing a boost that has been
insufficient to rid the economy of the  price declines  that have
hampered the recovery. An expansion of stimulus is unlikely as
Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s administration focuses on tackling
the government’s  record debt .  
 Kan, facing a mid-term election in less than two weeks, is
considering an increase in the sales tax that would squeeze
households whose wages fell for all but two months in the past
two years.  
 Sales at  Daisyo Corp. , an operator of Japanese-style pubs,
dropped for a 22nd month in May. The company reversed in March
its forecast of a net profit for the year ending Aug. 31 to a
net loss, citing stagnant consumer spending and a price war in
the restaurant industry.  
 “Japan still can’t rely on domestic demand alone to
sustain growth,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist
at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. Still, he said, a recovery in
employment is “pausing” rather than over.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        