-- Japan Wind Management Executives Face Investor Questions as Shares Plunge
-- Michio Nakayama
-- 2010-06-30T09:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/japan-wind-management-executives-face-investor-questions-as-shares-plunge.html

          
          
             Executives of  Japan Wind Development
Co. , whose shares have shed two-thirds their value in a month,
faced questions from investors amid concerns the stock may be
delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 More than 270 shareholders attended the windpower
developer’s annual general meeting in Tokyo today, compared with
120 last year, Hidekazu Yui, a senior manager of the company’s
administration department, said by e-mail. The meeting, which
was closed to the press, ran an hour over schedule.  
 “A change in management is essential to revive the
company,” Mamoru Kusatsu, 73, said after the meeting. The
retiree from Kawasaki City near Tokyo has held the stock for
about a year.  
 Japan Wind, the  worst performer  on the 88-member WilderHill
New Energy Global Innovation Index in the last year, is likely
to miss a June 30 deadline to file an annual securities report
after changing its auditor, the company said in a June 14 filing.
If it fails to submit the report within a month of the deadline,
the shares will be delisted, the bourse said in a statement the
same day.  
 “Even if the company overcomes this crisis, I’m still
worried that Japan Wind may collapse,” said Michiaki Otani, 62,
who has held the shares for a year. “The events made me doubt
the company and its business model.”  
 President  Masayuki Tsukawaki ’s stake in the company was
reduced to 6.27 percent, or 9,420 shares, from 10.99 percent
when financial institutions, which were holding it as security
against a loan, sold it under the terms of an acceleration
clause, according to a company statement June 21. The stake has
since been reduced further to 4.95 percent, according to filings
to the Ministry of Finance.  
 President’s Stake  
 “There is uncertainty in the company’s management,
including the possibility of further sales of the president’s
remaining stake,”  Tomoaki Kawasaki , an analyst at Cosmo
Securities Co., said by phone from Tokyo yesterday. Kawasaki
stopped covering the company June 23 because of the difficulty
in getting sufficient information to estimate earnings, he said.  
 Japan Wind  shares advanced 1.4 percent to 65,900 yen in
Tokyo trading today after earlier declining as much as 7.7
percent. The benchmark Topix index retreated 1.3 percent.  
 Sparx Group Co. , whose funds hold a combined stake of 11.09
percent in Japan Wind according to Bloomberg data, has declined
27 percent since the company announced it may miss the filing
deadline.  Masahiro Sugino , a spokesman for the Asia’s biggest
hedge-fund manager, declined to comment.  
 Idemitsu Kosan Co. , which  holds  a 4 percent stake in the
company, isn’t planning to review its partnership with Japan
Wind, spokeswoman  Makiko Iinuma  said by phone yesterday.  
 ‘Contradictory Explanations’  
 Japan Wind dismissed Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC after the
auditor rejected the findings of an internal investigation,
according to the June 14 filing. Japan Wind had set up a
committee of outside experts to look into three memoranda an
employee wrote to clients undertaking to supply turbines and
batteries without the company’s approval.  
 The committee found that the memos weren’t legally binding
and didn’t pose inventory or procurement risks, according to the
statement.  
 “Given changing and contradictory explanations, our doubts
about the facts regarding the memos haven’t been resolved,” the
auditor said in a statement sent to Japan Wind and released by
the stock exchange June 16. “We repeatedly asked the company
for explanations and to take appropriate measures, including
reviewing its earnings” for the year ended March 2010, it said.  
 Japan Wind will set up a new committee of external experts
to verify whether it took appropriate accounting measures, it
said in a statement on June 28.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
 Michio Nakayama  in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        