-- Japan's Bonds Rise, Yields Hit Seven-Year Low, on Global Slowdown Concern
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-01T07:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/japan-s-10-year-bonds-may-rise-for-third-day-on-slowdown-europe-concerns.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  rose, pushing 10-year
yields to the lowest level in seven years, as signs the global
economic recovery is faltering boosted demand for the safety of
government debt.  
 Bond futures advanced for a fourth day as Asian stocks
slumped after Moody’s Investors Service said it may downgrade
Spain’s credit rating and a report showed China’s manufacturing
growth slowed for a second month. The gain in bonds was tempered
after the central bank’s Tankan survey showed sentiment at large
manufacturers climbed to a two-year high.  
 “Concerns over the debt crisis in Europe continue to haunt
the market, while prospects of the worldwide recovery are
becoming hazy,” said  Kazumasa Yamaoka , a senior analyst in
Tokyo at GCI Capital Co., an investment advisory firm. “Global
money is likely to flood into safer assets such as bonds.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell 2.5 basis
points to 1.06 percent, the lowest since August 2003, as of 4:22
p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest
interdealer debt broker. The price rose 0.229 yen to 102.161 yen.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery climbed 0.22
to 141.88 on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The  Nikkei 225  Stock
Average slipped 2 percent, a fifth day of losses.  
 “Deteriorating” growth prospects and challenges in
meeting fiscal targets mean Spain’s Aaa classification may be
cut by as much as two grades, Moody’s analysts including Senior
Vice President  Kristin Lindow  in New York said yesterday. The
review will be concluded within three months, the company said.  
 ‘Very Nervous’  
 China’s  Purchasing Managers’ Index  fell to 52.1 this month
from 53.9 in May, the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said today. The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S.
 manufacturing index  slid to 59 in June from 59.7 the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg survey before the report today.  
 “Investors are very nervous about developments in China,
which has been driving the global recovery, and in the U.S. the
world’s biggest economy,” said  Takeo Okuhara , a fund manager in
Tokyo at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., a unit of Japan’s second-
largest securities broker.  
 Bonds also gained as the cost of protecting Asia-Pacific
corporate and sovereign bonds from default increased.  
 The Markit  iTraxx Japan index  climbed four basis points to
142 basis points, according to Morgan Stanley. The Markit iTraxx
Asia index of 50 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan rose
three basis points to 142.5 basis points, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show.  
 Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
debt against default and traders use them to speculate on credit
quality. An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness and a drop shows improvement.  
 Tankan Survey  
 Bonds declined in earlier trading after the Bank of Japan
said its quarterly Tankan  index  of sentiment rose 15 points in
June to plus 1.  
 The Tankan survey also showed companies plan to increase
 capital spending  as earnings improve following a global trade
rebound. Large businesses aim to increase investment 4.4 percent
in the year ending March 31, the first gain in three years, and
they see profit rising 21.6 percent.  
 “From a purely fundamental viewpoint, yields are already
too low,” said  Masahide Tanaka , a senior strategist in Tokyo at
Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest
banking group.  
 Bonds still gained as the yen strengthened to an eight-week
high against the dollar and traded near the strongest in eight
years against the euro.  
 The yen rose as high as 88.08 per dollar, the strongest
since May 6. The currency climbed to 107.32 per euro on June 29,
a level last seen in November 2001.  
 “For countries like Japan, which depend heavily on exports
in delivering growth, an appreciation of the currency will do no
good, thereby lending support to the debt market,” said
 Hirokata Kusaba , a senior economist at Mizuho Research Institute
Ltd. in Tokyo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        