-- Two Men Plotted to Blow Up JFK, Prosecutor Says
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-07-06T23:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/jfk-airport-plotters-circulated-plan-to-extremists-prosecutor-tells-jury.html

          
          
             The jury in the trial over an alleged
plot to blow up New York’s  John F. Kennedy International Airport 
watched video for the first time of a defendant and a government
witness driving around the airport, purportedly in preparation
for the attack.  
 Russell Defreitas , an ex-airline employee, and Steven
Francis, a government informant who infiltrated the group, could
be seen on the video with Defreitas pointing out fuel tanks and
the air-control tower.  
 “As long as one of them tanks get hit: all gone,”
Defreitas told Francis on the video recording from Jan. 3, 2007,
played in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, today.  
 Defreitas, a former Evergreen Airlines cargo worker, and
Abdul Kadir, a citizen of Guyana who served as a member of the
Guyanese Parliament, are charged with hatching the plot in
January 2006. They circulated their plan to an international
network of Muslim extremists, prosecutors said in court papers.  
 Francis, a naturalized U.S. citizen from the Dominican
Republic, became a confidential informant for the federal
government after he was convicted of drug trafficking.  
 “You just can’t believe a place like Kennedy can be so
lapsing,” Defreitas, a U.S. citizen and native of Guyana, told
Francis as they drove around the cargo and other areas where
Defreitas used to work. “Yes! No soldier, nothing at all!”  
 Less Security  
 The attacks were designed to destroy “the whole of
Kennedy,” the largest airport in the New York City area,
Defreitas said in a taped conversation, according to the Justice
Department. The plot was foiled in the planning stages with the
aid of Francis, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Berit Berger  told the
jury in her June 30 opening statement.  
 Francis testified that Neville Rutherford, a businessman in
Guyana and a co-conspirator not charged in the case, told him
that Christmas Eve would be a good time to conduct the attack
because there would be less security at the airport.  
 “So what kind of devastation you think will happen?”
Francis asked Defreitas on Jan. 4, 2007, according to a
recording played for the jury today.  
 “It will take out the whole entire area,” Defreitas
replied. “The whole of Kennedy will go up in smoke.”  
 Assistant U.S. District Attorney Jason Jones asked Francis
why it was necessary to take video of the fuel tanks, after
showing it to the jury. The government informant said one reason
was to impress potential investors in the terror plot.  
 Second Plot  
 U.S. District Judge  Dora L. Irizarry , presiding over the
trial, ruled today that the government can’t introduce evidence
about a second plot to blow up the U.S. and British embassies in
Guyana.  
 Rutherford discussed that plan with Francis in Guyana in
2006, the government said. Defreitas and Kadir weren’t aware of
the plan, called The Beginning, it said. Prosecutors wanted to
use the second conspiracy to counter the defense argument that
without Francis the JFK plot wouldn’t have moved forward.  
 Lawyers for both men opposed allowing the evidence in,
saying it would be prejudicial against their clients.  
 “It’s not part of the conspiracy that’s at issue here,”
the judge told the lawyers outside the jury’s presence. “It’s a
secondary plot.”  
 Other Probes  
 Irizarry allowed Francis to testify generally that he
worked overseas for the U.S. on other terrorism probes at the
same time as the JFK case.  
 The plotters conducted surveillance of the airport,
including videotaping its buildings, and sought expert advice,
financing and explosives, the prosecutor said.  
 Defreitas, who by then no longer worked at the airport,
allegedly was sent from Guyana to conduct video and photo
surveillance. He allegedly identified the target sites and
escape routes, in part, by using satellite photographs from the
Internet.  
 Defreitas allegedly compared the plot to terrorist attacks
on New York’s World Trade Center in September 2001 when two
planes were crashed into the towers.  
 “Even the twin towers can’t touch it,” he said in taped
conversations, according to the Justice Department. “This can
destroy the economy of America for some time.”  
 Technical Aspects  
 In her opening statement, prosecutor Berger told jurors
that Kadir was an engineer who advised on the technical aspects
of the plot.  
 The plot was circulated to radical groups in South America
and the Caribbean, including Jamaat Al Muslimeen, which staged a
coup attempt in Trinidad in 1990 that resulted in “numerous
deaths,” according to court papers.  
 Abdel Nur, a citizen of Guyana, pleaded guilty June 29 to
one count of providing support to terrorists for his role in the
plot.  Kareem Ibrahim , a citizen of Trinidad, was granted a
separate trial at a later date due to a medical condition.  
 Defreitas pleaded not guilty in 2007. His co-defendants
pleaded not guilty in 2008. They have been in custody without
bail.  
 Defreitas and Kadir face life in prison if convicted.  
 The case is U.S. v. Russell Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        