-- Jobless Claims Show U.S. Job Machine Sputtering in Recovery
-- Michael McDonough
-- 2010-06-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/jobless-claims-signal-american-job-machine-sputtering-since-recovery-began.html

          
          
             Almost a year ago, chief economic
strategist  Dan Greenhaus  of Miller Tabak & Co. told his clients
the U.S. economy would recover while jobs would be scarce. It
would follow the pattern of the two prior so-called jobless
rebounds, with unemployment climbing after the slumps ended.  
 “I didn’t have enough fingers and toes to count the people
I knew getting fired,” he said in a telephone interview from
New York. “Companies over-fired during the recession and now
demand is not picking up sufficiently to bring back a meaningful
amount of people.”  
 Jobless claims , a gauge of firings, indicate Greenhaus’s
July 2009 forecast may be coming true. Applications for jobless
benefits have stalled in a range of 440,000 to 490,000 per week
this year, a level  Bruce Kasman  says corresponds with payroll
gains of about 100,000 a month, less than the number needed to
reduce the  unemployment rate .  
 “We’re in danger of facing a recovery in which job growth
is taking place, but not sufficient to offset the amount of job
losses in the recession,” Kasman, chief economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co in New York, said in an interview. “It takes more
than 100,000 to 150,000 new jobs a month to feel like we’re
taking a big step toward unwinding the big losses.”  
 Data compiled by Bloomberg News show claims within this
year’s range coincide with payroll gains of about 17,000 a month
on average over the past four decades. Taking into account
variables such as the unemployment rate and the stage of the
business cycle, Kasman says claims now are “broadly
consistent” with about 100,000 jobs a month and a static
unemployment rate. (To see the Interactive Insight story, click
 here .)  
 Claims Forecast  
 The number of applications for jobless benefits last week
fell to 455,000 from 457,000 the prior week, according to the
median  estimate  of 46 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a Labor Department report today.  
 Payrolls fell by 125,000 in June, reflecting a drop in the
number of temporary federal government employees working on the
decennial census, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed before a Labor Department report July 2. Excluding
government, companies added 110,000 workers after a 41,000 gain
the prior month, and the jobless rate rose to 9.8 percent from
9.7 percent, according to the estimates.  
 Vince Farrell , chief investment officer at Soleil
Securities Corp. in New York, said he’s becoming skeptical his
forecast for a big increase in jobs will come true. “I’m not
willing to throw in the towel yet, but with claims showing such
stickiness, it could be we will be at a low level of 40,000 to
60,000 new jobs for some time.”  
 The economy needs to create at least 200,000 jobs a month
to reduce the unemployment rate, according to  Mark Zandi , chief
economist with Moody’s Economy.com in West Chester,
Pennsylvania. “If that doesn’t happen by the end of the year,
then this will go down as another jobless recovery.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael McDonough  in New York at 
 mmcdonough10@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Cinko  in New York at 
 cinko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks and the nation's economy.
     Saut, speaking from St. Petersburg, Florida, also discusses U.S. House of Representatives' approval of the financial-overhaul bill and its implications for the banking industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
