-- Kagan Advocates Consensus, Refuses to Criticize Court
-- Kristin Jensen
-- 2010-06-30T17:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/kagan-deflects-republican-criticism-with-command-of-law-sense-of-humor.html

          
          
             U.S. Supreme Court nominee  Elena Kagan  said justices should seek greater consensus when possible,
while refusing to criticize the divided decisions reached by the
court under Chief Justice  John Roberts .  
 “The court is served best and our country is served best
when people trust the court as an entirely nonpolitical body,”
Kagan said during a third day of hearings on her nomination
before the  Senate Judiciary Committee . “One of the benefits of
narrow decisions is that they enable consensus to a greater
degree than broad, far-reaching decisions.”  
 Kagan, nominated last month by President  Barack Obama , is
trying to counter Republican claims that she is too political as
she seeks to become the third woman on the high court. She
wouldn’t let fellow Democrat and Rhode Island Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse  draw her into condemning recent 5-4 decisions.  
 “I’m not agreeing to your characterization of the current
court,” Kagan, 50, said today. “I’m sure that everybody up
there is acting in good faith.”  
 Kagan distanced herself from the analogy made by Roberts
during his 2005 confirmation hearing, when he likened judges to
baseball umpires who simply call balls and strikes. That analogy
is “correct in several important respects but like all
metaphors it does have its limits,” Kagan said.  
 ‘Not Easy Calls’  
 While judges “should realize that they’re not the most
important people in our democratic system of government,” the
metaphor incorrectly suggests that judging is “a robotic
enterprise,” Kagan said.  
 “Judges do, in many of these cases, have to exercise
judgment,” Kagan said. “They’re not easy calls.”  
 Kagan said judges should realize that the law at times will
force them to reach an outcome they don’t like. She pointed to a
2009 decision written by Justice  Antonin Scalia  barring
prosecutors from using forensic reports in criminal trials
unless they put an expert on the stand to explain the contents.  
 Scalia is one of the court’s most conservative justices,
and Kagan said he would almost certainly prefer to side with the
prosecution.  
 “It’s actually a good example of where a person’s view of
the law comes out a different way” from the outcome they might
desire, Kagan said. For all judges “that should happen in their
lives,” she said.  
 No Tilt  
 If confirmed, Kagan, a New York native, would replace
Justice  John Paul Stevens . Her confirmation almost certainly
wouldn’t affect the court’s ideological balance, which tilts 5-4
for conservatives on most of the divisive issues.  
 Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , a Republican leader, said it’s
“highly improbable” that his party would use a parliamentary
maneuver called a filibuster to try to block her nomination.
Democrats control 58 of 99 votes in the Senate.  
 “She has been, in my view, a witness who has manifested a
deep knowledge of the law, and she’s certainly very adept at
describing the way she thinks about the law,” Kyl told
reporters today. “By a different token, I think she has been
very adept at avoiding very specific questions that could result
in criticism of her point of view.”  
 Utah Senator  Orrin Hatch , another Republican on the panel,
said he was “troubled” that Kagan, as an aide to former
President  Bill Clinton  in the late 1990s, had worked to change
language used by a doctors’ group on what opponents call
partial-birth abortion. Draft language that said an expert panel
didn’t believe the method was the only way to save a woman’s
life or protect her health would be a “disaster,” Kagan wrote
at the time.  
 ‘Vivid Reminder’  
 Kagan said the issue was “enormously hard” and that her
role in that situation was to ensure that any statement from the
doctors also reflected their belief that the procedure was an
option to protect the life and health of the mother.  
 “There’s no way in which I would have or could have
intervened” to get the group to “change its medical views,”
Kagan said.  
 Yesterday, Kagan parried lawmakers’ questions with humor
and a command of the law. She stood her ground when challenged -
- rejecting Republican accusations that she ignored the law by
restricting military recruitment as dean of  Harvard Law School  -
- while avoiding gaffes that might jeopardize her nomination.  
 The panel’s top Republican, Senator  Jeff Sessions  of
Alabama, was far more critical. He stopped just short of
accusing her of lying about the military recruitment, saying
today her testimony “was too consistent with an inaccurate
spin.”  
 ‘Gifts and Graces’  
 While praising Kagan’s “gifts and graces,” Session said
he doesn’t think Kagan has satisfied critics.  
 It’s difficult to know whether “you’d be more like John
Roberts or more like  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,” he said, referring
to the justice nominated by Clinton who aligns with the court’s
liberal wing.  
 Kagan, currently Obama’s  chief  high court lawyer, described
herself as a lifelong Democrat yesterday. “My views are
generally progressive,” Kagan said. Still, she said her
politics would play no role in her decisions as a justice.  
 In response to a question, Kagan declined to say whether
states should have jurisdiction over marriage because a case
about gay marriage is “coming down the road.”  
 She said she would respect the court’s decision in January
allowing unlimited campaign spending by corporations and unions.
She also said she would respect two recent rulings, one in 2008
and one this week, interpreting the Constitution’s Second
Amendment to protect individual gun rights.  
 Kagan said today she had “no thought, no agenda, no
purpose” to reverse such high court rulings.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elena Kagan, nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court, returns to take her seat following a break on the second day of her confirmation hearing. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
