-- Kan May Face Ghost of Hashimoto as Japan's Economy Weakens Before Tax Rise
-- Aki Ito
-- 2010-06-30T23:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/kan-may-face-ghost-of-hashimoto-as-japan-s-economy-weakens-before-tax-rise.html

          
          
             Japan’s slowing recovery from its
worst postwar recession is signaling the world’s second-biggest
economy may be too weak to sustain the higher consumption taxes
under consideration by Prime Minister  Naoto Kan .  
 Reports this week showed the  jobless rate  reached a five-
month high in May, and wages, factory output and household
spending fell, showing little sign of revival in domestic demand
more than a year after the economy stopped shrinking. A gain in
the Tankan business-sentiment index today reflects a post-
recession rebound in manufacturers’ earnings led by exports.  
 The risk is that without an end to  deflation  and rebound in
spending, the economy won’t be able to withstand the higher levy
Kan plans in as soon as two years. Kan, facing midterm elections
July 11, is in danger of repeating the error of his late
predecessor  Ryutaro Hashimoto , whose 1997 tax rise helped cause
a recession, according to Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.  
 “Hashimoto raised taxes as soon as he thought the economy
had gained back just a bit of its health, and that ended up
sinking the Japanese economy into a bottomless abyss,” said
 Akio Makabe , an economics professor at Shinshu University in
Matsumoto, central Japan, who has written books on behavioral
finance. “If the government doesn’t get its priorities straight,
we’ll see another 1997.”  
 Evidence of a weakening rebound has contributed to a sell-
off in Japan’s equities, with the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
losing 6.8 percent in the past two weeks, to 9,382.64 at
yesterday’s close in Tokyo.  
 Eroding Support  
 Kan is also feeling the impact, with eroding public support
before the vote for the upper house of parliament. His approval
rating fell to 50 percent last week, 18 percentage points lower
than when he took office last month, a Nikkei newspaper poll
showed June 26.  
 The poll was taken on June 24-25, days after the premier
said he would consider an increase in the sales tax to 10
percent from the current 5 percent. Tax changes will be unveiled
“soon,” the government said in a medium-term fiscal strategy
June 22. The administration also pledged to balance the budget
by fiscal 2020 and cap public spending for the next three years.  
 Policy makers need to implement a pro-growth overhaul of
business regulations and prod the Bank of Japan to stimulate
credit expansion before considering a tax increase, according to
Morgan Stanley and Barclays Capital.  
 “More aggressive monetary and regulatory policies are
needed in Japan if 1997-style economic consequences of fiscal
retrenchment are to be avoided,” Morgan Stanley economists led
by  Robert Feldman , who previously worked at the U.S. Federal
Reserve, wrote in a report yesterday.  
 Setting the Goal  
 “Strengthening the economy is the goal here -- fiscal
rehabilitation is only a result of that,” said  Kyohei Morita ,
chief economist at Barclays Capital in Tokyo. He also advocates
cutting corporate taxes, a move Kan is also considering.  
 Koji Miyahara , president of the Japanese Shipowners’
Association and chairman of  Nippon Yusen K.K. , said last month
that the country’s companies need a corporate tax cut to
continue competing in the global economy. The government should
“offset the loss” of revenue from the corporate tax cut by
increasing the sales tax, he said.  
 Sales taxes can be an effective way of raising revenue in
developed economies, according to the International Monetary
Fund. More than half of gross domestic product typically comes
from consumer spending in the developed world.  
 Fighting Deflation  
 Higher sales taxes, introduced gradually, could help the
economy by spurring inflation expectations, according to
 Masamichi Adachi , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.
An annual 1 percentage point increase from next year, eventually
reaching a 20 percent level, would minimize the impact on
consumer spending, he said.  
 “When people get used to the fact that the consumption tax
rises a percentage point every year, they’ll begin to assume
that prices will keep rising,” Adachi said. “That way,
deflationary expectations will turn into inflationary ones.”  
 In 1997, Hashimoto boosted the consumption levy by 2
percentage points, an increase followed by a recession that led
to his resignation. Kan, 63, has said he’s considering the
opposition Liberal Democratic Party’s proposal to double it to
10 percent, and called for cross-party talks on the issue.  
 Japan’s dilemma is echoed around the world in developed
nations with swelling public debt loads and historically high
unemployment.  
 U.K., U.S.  
 The U.K. plans to boost its value-added tax to 20 percent
from 17.5 percent in January. Spain is raising its main VAT rate
in July to 18 percent from 16 percent. By contrast, American
officials have warned that policies need to sustain a recovery
in domestic demand.  
 Morgan Stanley analysts, who weren’t immediately available
to respond to questions, said Japan’s economy is in worse shape
than 1997, when the jobless rate was around 3.3 percent compared
with 5.2 percent now. Deflation is more entrenched, with
consumer prices slumping 1.2 percent in May, more than the 0.5
percent drop on the eve of the tax increase 13 years ago.  
 “Vulnerability to premature tightening is high,” the
bank’s economists said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister, holds a copy of his party's manifesto during a news conference at the prime minister's official residence in Tokyo. Photographer: Tatsuyuki Tayama/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Martin Schulz, senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo, talks with Bloomberg's Mike Firn about the outlook for Japan's economy. 
     Sentiment among Japan’s largest manufacturers rose to a two-year high, signaling Europe’s debt crisis has yet to undermine their confidence in the global recovery. The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment at large manufacturers climbed 15 points in June to plus 1, the Bank of Japan said in Tokyo today. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
