-- KazakhGold Group Plans to Acquire Polyus Gold, Its Controlling Shareholder
-- Thomas Biesheuvel
-- 2010-06-30T17:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/kazakhgold-group-says-it-proposed-acquiring-its-parent-company-polyus-gold.html

          
          
             KazakhGold Group Ltd.  will take over
its parent OAO Polyus Gold in a $9.4 billion deal, creating the
largest producer of the metal among the former Soviet republics
and helping the group seek acquisitions.  
 The combination under a single listing on the London Stock
Exchange will provide “an attractive acquisition currency for
future expansion and consolidation within the gold sector,”
Jersey-registered KazakhGold said today in a statement.  
 The takeover would allow Polyus, Russia’s largest producer
of the metal, to bypass a local law capping at 25 percent the
shares of a company that can be held as depositary receipts,
giving it access to more investors on global markets as it seeks
to expandAUNWVEBWADUQ"></a>  
 KazakhGold agreed with billionaires  Mikhail Prokhorov  and
 Suleiman Kerimov , Polyus’s main shareholders, to acquire 74.3
percent of the company’s stock in exchange for its own shares,
according to the statement. The company also struck an accord
with Polyus subsidiary Jenington International Inc.  
 Deal Terms  
 The proposed terms call for 9.260 KazakhGold global
depository receipts to be exchanged for each Polyus share, and
4.885  KazakhGold  GDRs for each Polyus American depositary share.
The ratios reflect a Polyus share value of about $48.25, every
two Polyus ADSs at about $50.90 and each KazakhGold GDR at about
$5.21, according to the statement. That values Polyus’s issued
share capital at about $9.4 billion.  
 “This news is expected but still positive for the stock,”
 Valentina Bogomolova , a Moscow-based analyst at Nomura Holding
Inc., said by phone.  
 KazakhGold said it would also start a $100 million equity
capital raising of new shares and GDRs, delayed from last year.
The shares and GDRs will be offered at $1.50 apiece and the
proceeds used to repay a $50 million shareholder loan from
Jenington.  
 KazakhGold and Polyus would together form the largest gold
producer listed in London. They produced a total of 1.3 million
ounces last year, almost double the current largest producer,
African Barrick Gold Plc, which mined 716,000 so-called
attributable ounces of gold.  
 Second Step  
 “The second step in this combination could be a subsequent
equity-based merger of Polyus Gold with another global gold-
mining company,’’ Mikhail Stiskin, a Moscow-based analyst at
Troika Dialog, said June 21. “Polyus would use its U.K.-
domiciled equity as a currency.”  
 Ivanov said the company may also look at a secondary
listing in North America or Hong Kong.  
 ‘‘I would not exclude that further on we would look for a
secondary listing in other places, but London is a must for
us.’’ he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Amanda Jordan  in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        