-- KBC Shutting Emerging Market Equities Unit in London to Meet Bailout Terms
-- Jason Corcoran
-- 2010-06-30T13:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/kbc-shutting-emerging-market-equities-unit-in-london-to-meet-bailout-terms.html

          
          
             KBC Groep NV , Belgium’s biggest bank
by market value, is closing its seven-person emerging-market
unit in London as part of a reorganization required to meet
European Commission bailout guidelines.  
 Sales, trading and research focused on central and eastern
European equities will be transferred to Brussels, Stephane
Leunens, a spokesman for KBC in Brussels, said in a phone
interview today. London staff may be transferred to work in
other departments, he said.  
 The reorganization of KBC’s London business is part of a
“global review,” Leunens said.  
 KBC needs to reimburse 7 billion euros ($8.6 billion) of
government funds it received in the past two years to help
cushion against declines in the value of collateralized debt
obligations. The lender last week sold Dublin-based KBC Asset
Management for 23.7 million euros to Belgium investment company
RHJ International. At the start of the month KBC said its U.K
asset manager’s chief executive officer, Simon Radford, agreed
to buy out the unit for an undisclosed sum. India’s Hinduja
Group, controlled by billionaire brothers Srichand and  Gopichand Hinduja , agreed in May to buy KBC’s private bank for 1.35
billion euros.  
 Asset Reduction  
 The firm’s target is to reduce risk-weighted assets by 39
billion euros, or 25 percent, by 2013 by cutting capital market
activities and international lending,  Luc Philips , KBC’s chief
financial officer, said in a  statement  June 4.  
 Under European Union guidelines, banks bailed out by
governments have five years to complete a reorganization and
repay aid received. KBC handed over a business plan including a
list of potential disposals to the European Commission at the
end of September.  
 KBC will predominantly focus on retail customers, small-
and medium-sized enterprises and midcaps in its core markets in
Belgium and Central and Eastern Europe,  the company said  this
month. KBC is winding back its presence in Japan where 30 equity
staff were hired by BNP Paribas SA, France’s biggest bank.  
 The plan agreed with the EU’s anti-trust regulator also
involves KBC selling its Russian lender Absolut Bank unit and
non-strategic assets in eastern Europe, Belgian daily newspaper
L’Echo reported in November.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        