-- Korea Won Drops as Faltering Global Recovery Curbs Risk-Taking; Bonds Rise
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-06-30T07:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/korean-won-drops-as-sputtering-global-economic-recovery-curbs-risk-taking.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won dropped,
completing its first quarterly loss in more than a year, as
signs the global economic recovery is losing traction sapped
demand for riskier assets. Government bonds advanced.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index of U.S. shares fell to an
eight-month low after consumer confidence in the world’s biggest
economy dropped more than was forecast by all 71 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Overseas investors  sold more Korean shares
than they bought today, having dumped some $4.5 billion of the
securities since the end of April, and the  Kospi  index fell.  
 “The situation at home and abroad is psychologically
vulnerable and stocks are not doing as well as we hoped,” said
 Ha Joon Woo , a currency dealer at Daegu Bank Ltd in Seoul.
“Still, exporter demand to settle month-end contracts exploded
at the level of 1,230 against the dollar.”  
 The won slid 0.4 percent to close at 1,221.80 per dollar,
having earlier dropped as much as 2.1 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency tumbled 7.4 percent this
quarter, Asia’s worst performance, and is 4.7 percent weaker
than at the start of the year.  
 The New York-based Conference Board yesterday said its
index of U.S. consumer confidence slumped to 52.9 in June, from
62.7 last month, and revised lower its assessment of China’s
economic outlook. China and the U.S. are South Korea’s two
largest export markets.  
 Improving Economy  
 The won recouped the bulk of earlier losses after
government data today showed South Korea’s  industrial production 
rose for an 11th month in May, climbing 21.5 percent from a year
earlier.  Manufacturer’s confidence  held near a seven-year high,
though the outlook for exports deteriorated, a central bank
survey showed.  
 The government internally estimates the economy will expand
more than 6 percent this year, Yonhap News reported today,
citing a finance ministry official it didn’t identify. The
ministry later refuted the report, repeating the official
forecast for 5.8 percent growth. Its estimate was raised last
week from a December projection of 5 percent.  
 International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said in Washington this week that the rebound in
Asian economies such as South Korea have been “impressive,”
and “it’s time to progressively go back to normal” by
withdrawing stimulus measures.  
 Bonds Rise  
 Government bonds rose for a second day. The yield on the
3.75 percent note maturing in June 2013 fell by five basis
points to 3.85 percent, a one-week low, according to Korea Stock
Exchange.  
 “Pressure on bonds from rising inflation has been put on
the backburner,” said  Yum Sang Hoon , a Seoul-based fixed-income
analyst for SK Securities Co Ltd. “It doesn’t make sense for
inflation to be rising in Korea when economies elsewhere aren’t
doing well. Looming Europe concerns may drag yields on the
three-year bond to as low as 3.7 percent by the end of July.”  
 The Bank of Korea’s policy board next meets to review
borrowing costs on July 9. Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said June 10
policy makers will focus more on “price stability” after
keeping the benchmark interest rate at a record-low 2 percent
for a 16th month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        