-- Kotak Mahindra Bank Agrees to Sell 4.5% Stake to Japan's Sumitomo Mitsui
-- Ruth David
-- 2010-06-30T06:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/kotak-mahindra-bank-agrees-to-sell-4-5-stake-to-japan-s-sumito-mitsui.html

          
          
             Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. 
will pay 13.7 billion rupees ($295 million) for a stake in  Kotak
Mahindra Bank Ltd. , owner of India’s largest securities firm,
and said the two companies will cooperate in investment banking.  
 Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui expects to close the purchase
of a 4.5 percent stake by September, it said in a statement on
its website today. Mumbai-based Kotak Mahindra employs about
20,000 people and had total  assets  of 551.2 billion rupees as of
March 31, according to the statement.  
 The deal gives Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-largest bank
by market value, a toehold in a country where the value of stock
sales more than tripled in the first half from a year earlier.
Allying with Kotak Mahindra, controlled by billionaire  Uday Kotak , may also help Sumitomo Mitsui win commercial-banking
business from Indian companies, said Barclays Plc analyst
 Shinichi Tamura .  
 “Sumitomo Mitsui has long-term relationships with some of
India’s big consortiums, but in order to expand that business
they need the help of a local bank,” said Tokyo-based Tamura.
“We’ll likely see more alliances by large Japanese banks in
Asia as there is no growth in domestic financial markets.”  
 Kotak Mahindra gained as much as 3.7 percent in  Mumbai
trading today . Sumitomo Mitsui shares fell 1.4 percent in Tokyo.  
 The companies plan to collaborate in investment banking,
asset management and securities business in India, the Japanese
bank said today. Kotak Mahindra is also selling the stake to
help comply with local  ownership regulations  and boost capital,
Vice Chairman Kotak said today at a press conference. Kotak
Mahindra has no plans to sell more shares after the Sumitomo
Mitsui deal, he said.  
 Stock Sales Rise  
 Indian companies raised 513 billion rupees from share sales
in the first six months, up from 155 billion rupees in last
year’s first half, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Kotak Mahindra’s investment-banking unit was the second-ranked
arranger of offerings in the period, behind Citigroup Inc., the
data show.  
 Kotak Mahindra plans to work with Sumitomo Mitsui to help
Indian companies borrow overseas, said TV Raghunath, the
company’s head of strategy. India’s debt markets aren’t fully
developed, leaving local firms dependent on capital from abroad
to finance growth, he said.  
 Japanese banks, stung by falling demand for loans at home,
are trying to expand in emerging markets in Asia to increase
revenue.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  and India’s Tata Group
agreed in 2008 to cooperate in wealth management and investment
banking.  
 Overseas Growth  
 Sumitomo Mitsui’s brokerage and investment banking unit
plans to hire 1,000 people over the next three years, the
company said in March. The Japanese bank is building its own
investment banking businesses after ending a 10-year joint
venture with Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in December.  
 Sumitomo Mitsui aims to get 30 percent of banking profit
from overseas within three years, up from 20 percent in the 12
months ended March 31, President  Teisuke Kitayama  said in May.
The lender agreed to invest in Hong Kong-based Bank of East Asia
Ltd. in 2009. It raised 1.8 trillion yen in two public stock
offerings in the past year.  
 The World Bank this month forecast India’s economy will
grow by 8.2 percent this year and 8.7 percent in 2011, compared
with 2.5 percent and 2.1 percent for Japan in the same periods.
Japan’s population declined by 0.14 percent last year to 127.5
million, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications
said in April.  
 Bank lending in Japan fell for a sixth straight month in
May as larger companies issued more bonds and used increased
profits to fund growth. Kotak Mahindra expects to boost loans by
25 percent to 30 percent this year, Uday Kotak said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        