-- Nadal Favorite to Win Wimbledon After Top Seed Federer Is Upset by Berdych
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/nadal-favorite-to-win-wimbledon-after-top-seed-federer-is-upset-by-berdych.html

          
          
             Rafael Nadal  has become the favorite
to win  Wimbledon  after two hurdles standing between the Spaniard
and his second championship disappeared within hours.  
 Roger Federer , the defending champion and six-time
Wimbledon winner who has beaten Nadal in two title matches at
the grass-court Grand Slam, lost in the quarterfinals yesterday
to  Tomas Berdych  6-4, 3-6, 6-1, 6-4.  
 The Spaniard saw top seed Federer’s earliest loss at the
All England Club since 2002 flashed on the Court 1 scoreboard
during his 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-4), 6-1 win over  Robin Soderling ,
the Swede who handed him his only loss at the French Open.  
 “Roger did amazing the last seven years here, so some day
this must happen,” second-seeded Nadal said in a news
conference. “When you play against these kind of players --
like Soderling, like Berdych -- they have a very good serve and
very powerful shots from the baseline. It’s very difficult
sometimes to stop these players.”  
 Nadal, who was unable to defend his 2008 Wimbledon title
because of tendinitis in both knees, is now the 6-5 favorite to
win his eighth Grand Slam at U.K. bookmaker  Ladbrokes Plc ,
meaning a successful 5-pound ($7.48) bet would return 6 pounds
plus the original stake.  
 Murray’s Quest  
 Andy Murray , Nadal’s semifinal opponent tomorrow, is second
favorite at 2-1. Murray beat France’s  Jo-Wilfried Tsonga  6-7 (5-
7), 7-6 (7-5), 6-2, 6-2 to keep alive his challenge to end
Britain’s 74-year wait for a male champion.  Novak Djokovic  of
Serbia, who ousted Yen-Hsun Lu of Taiwan 6-3, 6-2, 6-2, is at 9-
2, while his semifinal opponent, Berdych, is at 11-2.  
 In today’s women’s semifinals, defending champion and top
seed  Serena Williams  plays  Petra Kvitova  of the Czech Republic
and 21st-seeded  Vera Zvonareva  of Russia meets Tsvetana
Pironkova of Bulgaria.  
 Nadal jumped and raised both arms after reaching the last
four with a forehand down the line. His entourage, including his
agent, Carlos Costa, and his uncle and long-time coach, Toni
Nadal, celebrated in the hallway underneath Court 1 with  Manuel
Santana , the last Spaniard to win the tournament in 1966 before
Nadal beat Federer in a five-set final two years ago.  
 “It’s a dream to be in the semifinals here for another
time,” said Nadal, who turned the match against Soderling
around after dropping the first five games in 18 minutes.  
 Injury Problems  
 Federer  blamed his health for the Center Court loss to
Berdych, the 12th seed from the Czech Republic.  
 “I’m struggling with a little bit of a back and a leg
issue that just doesn’t quite allow me to play the way I would
like to play,” Federer, who had appeared in every Wimbledon
final since 2003, said in a news conference. “It’s frustrating,
to say the least. Looking forward to some rest.”  
 Federer will drop one place to No. 3 in the world on July
5. He hasn’t been ranked that low since Nov. 10, 2003, according
to the ATP website.  
 Berdych moved Federer around the court with ground strokes
and serves of up to 137 miles per hour. The Czech right-hander
produced 51 winners to Federer’s 44. The Swiss converted one of
eight break points, while Berdych made four of six.  
 “When he had to, he was able to come up with some good
stuff,” said Federer. “But I definitely gave away this match,
I feel.”  
 Head-to-Head  
 Federer, who had been seeking to tie  Pete Sampras ’s Open
era men’s record of seven Wimbledon titles, led Berdych 8-2 in
career meetings before yesterday. The 28-year-old Swiss, the 11-
8 pre-tournament favorite at British bookmaker William Hill Plc,
said he’d probably have beaten Berdych had he been fit.  
 “If I’m healthy, I can handle these guys,” Federer said.
“When you can’t play freely, that’s the kind of performance you
get.”  
 Berdych, who defeated Federer in the round of 16 in Miami
in March, when he overcame a match point, and at the 2004
Olympics in Athens, disagreed.  
 “I don’t know if he’s just looking for some excuses,”
Berdych said in a news conference. “He was, I think, 100
percent ready.”  
 Federer has lost in the quarterfinals of two consecutive
majors. As defending champion, he was upset by Soderling at the
French Open, ending his record streak of 23 straight Grand Slam
semifinals. He hasn’t won a tournament since taking a record-
extending 16th major title at the Australian Open at the start
of the year.  
 “If you look at his record for the year, it’s terrible,”
 Bud Collins , a broadcaster and tennis historian for more than 40
years, said in an interview at Wimbledon. “You get up to a
certain level and you just don’t play as well anymore. He’s
still good for lots of tennis, and I think he’ll still be a
winner, but there seems to be a little edge going off it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Rafael Nadal of Spain celebrates match point during his Quarter Final match against Robin Soderling of Sweden. Photographer: Matthew Stockman/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
