-- Neff Corp. Wins Court Approval to Borrow $175 Million After Creditor Deal
-- David McLaughlin
-- 2010-06-30T19:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/neff-corp-wins-court-approval-to-borrow-175-million-after-creditor-deal.html

          
          
             Neff Corp. , the construction-
equipment rental company, won court approval to borrow
$175 million during its bankruptcy case after resolving creditor
objections to the financing.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley Chapman  in New York gave
final approval to the loan at a hearing today after Neff reached
an agreement with unsecured creditors, who oppose the company’s
restructuring.  
 “I’m glad you were able to resolve at least this one and
hope springs eternal for additional resolutions,” the judge
said.  
 Neff, based in Miami, filed for  bankruptcy  on May 16 to
restructure about $600 million in  debt , according to court
papers. The company has negotiated a reorganization plan with
senior lenders that it says will eliminate more than
$400 million in debt.  
 The plan calls for a $119 million rights offering
backstopped by lenders Apollo Capital Management and Wayzata
Investment Partners.  
 Neff’s unsecured creditors initially opposed the bankruptcy
loan. The financing, they said in court papers, binds the
company to a restructuring plan “at the expense of unsecured
creditors.” General unsecured creditors, owed about
$1.1 million, would receive a 1 percent recovery under the
bankruptcy plan, according to court documents.  
 ‘Unconfirmable Plan’  
 The financing “has the effect of dictating the pursuit of
the unconfirmable plan to the exclusion of any other meaningful
alternative,” the creditors said in a filing.  
 The loan changes agreed to today include a provision that
lenders will no longer receive liens on proceeds from certain
litigation by unsecured creditors, said Ray Schrock, Neff’s
bankruptcy attorney, at the hearing. Under the agreement, the
creditors also will be able to challenge new liens that lenders
will receive as part of the financing.  
 Bank of America Corp.  is the administrative agent on the
$175 million loan, which will convert to exit financing under
Neff’s bankruptcy plan, according to court papers. The company
won court approval to borrow a portion of the loan after its
bankruptcy filing. Chapman’s ruling today allows the company to
borrow the full amount.  
 The case is In re Neff Corp., 10-12610, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        