-- New York, Michigan, Pennsylvania Governors Press U.S. Congress on Medicaid
-- William Selway
-- 2010-06-30T20:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/new-york-michigan-pennsylvania-governors-press-u-s-congress-on-medicaid.html

          
          
             The governors of  New York ,
 Pennsylvania  and Michigan led states pressing Congress to extend
higher financing for Medicaid, the health-care program for the
poor whose use surged during the economic crisis.  
 David Paterson  of New York,  Edward Rendell  of Pennsylvania
and  Jennifer Granholm  of Michigan and three other governors, all
Democrats, traveled to Washington today to appeal for funds
after the Senate failed to approve $16 billion in extra
financing for Medicaid and extended jobless benefits.
Republicans opposed the measure’s cost.  
 The Senate action last week dealt a blow to cash-strapped
states, about 30 of which had anticipated that the federal help
would be extended for another six months. U.S. states at year-
end will lose the additional Medicaid money they receive under
the economic-stimulus package unless Congress steps in. The
governors said the money is needed to prevent cuts to programs
such as schools, whose funding has already been slashed.  
 “We’ve depleted our resources,” said Paterson, whose
state was anticipating $1 billion for Medicaid. “Where are we
going to go? We are going to have to go back to some of these
same places and create unimaginable pain.”  
 Yet to Recover  
 While the economy has been expanding, states have yet to
recover from the longest recession since the Great Depression.
The economic rout cut into tax collections and forced them to
raise taxes and slash spending on schools, social services and
other expenses. States have projected total budget deficits of
$127 billion through 2012, according to the  National Governors
Association .  
 With 15 million people  unemployed  across the U.S.,
expanding Medicaid rolls have added to the financial pressure on
states. Medicaid enrollment jumped more than 3 million in June
2009 from a year earlier, a  record increase , to 46.9 million
recipients, according to the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and
the Uninsured.  
 Both Republican and Democratic governors have previously
 urged Congressional  leaders to extend the Medicaid help.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat whose
position lets him control the chamber’s business, said last week
that the bill that failed may be considered again if support
emerges from the minority party. The House of Representatives,
however, is now considering legislation to extend unemployment
benefits -- the key component of the bill containing the
Medicaid extension -- without that state aid.  
 ‘Just Saying No’  
 “House and Senate Democrats strongly support additional
support for the states, but unfortunately Republicans are once
again just saying no,” said  Jim Manley , a Reid spokesman.  
 Republicans faulted last week’s bill for adding to the
federal government’s debt. Republican Senator  Scott Brown  of
Massachusetts said today he would introduce his own  legislation 
to provide the Medicaid funds, paid for by unspent money from
the economic stimulus program.  
 Pennsylvania’s Rendell said the governors have been
pressing their congressional delegations to get an extension
passed. He said the failure to do so would affect states in a
matter of weeks, given the need for them to balance their
budgets. The fiscal year begins July 1 for most states.  
 “I think there is going to be an effort made,” he said.
“Hopefully, it will succeed.”  
 ‘Deeper Pain’  
 Among those who called on Congress to pass the Medicaid
extension was  California  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a
Republican whose proposed budget plan for the year beginning
tomorrow anticipated $1.7 billion in added funds for the
program. California’s lawmakers have yet to approve a budget for
the year as the state faces an anticipated $19 billion shortfall
in its spending plan.  
 “The cuts I have proposed to close that gap are absolutely
devastating, they break my heart,” Schwarzenegger said in a
video link from his office to the Washington news conference.
“The federal money is critical toward preventing deeper pain
and deeper job losses.”  
 Other governors who traveled to Washington were  Martin O’Malley  of Maryland,  Chris Gregoire  of Washington and  Mark Parkinson  of Kansas.  
 The governors said the failure to help would trigger deeper
cuts to spending and government job cuts that would weigh on the
nascent economic recovery.  
 “We would have to look at things we have never put on the
table,” said Michigan’s Granholm, who said her state stands to
lose $560 million. “The consequences on the ground across the
country will be devastating.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        