-- Nigeria Withdraws From Soccer Events for Two Years After World Cup Flop
-- Paul Okolo
-- 2010-06-30T15:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/nigeria-s-president-withdraws-soccer-team-from-international-tournaments.html

          
          
             Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
withdrew the national soccer team from all international
tournaments for two years following its elimination from the
World Cup during the first round.  
 The withdrawal is to ensure that the “embarrassing outcome
of the World Cup in South Africa won’t repeat itself,” Ima
Niboro, Jonathan’s spokesman, told reporters today in the
capital, Abuja.  
 Nigeria was eliminated from the World Cup on June 22 after
failing to win any of the three games it played at the
tournament currently under way in South Africa. Its results
included a 1-0 defeat by Argentina, a 2-1 loss to Greece and a
2-2 draw with South Korea.  
 Lars Lagerback  was appointed to coach the Nigerian side,
known as the Super Eagles, in February. He has been offered a
new four-year contract by the Nigerian Football Federation,
Deutsche Presse-Agentur reported today. Lagerback stepped down
as coach of Sweden in October after failing to help that nation
qualify for the World Cup finals.  
 Jonathan acted on the recommendation of a presidential task
force set up to facilitate the team’s participation in the World
Cup, its chairman, Rotimi Amechi, said at today’s briefing.  
 “We had all sorts of maladministration,” Amechi said.
“We found out that the problem with Nigerian football is
structural.”  
 Nigeria, which is  ranked  21 in the world by FIFA, has
qualified for four World Cup tournaments, making it past the
group stages in the 1994 and 1998 tournaments.  
 The withdrawal will enable the country to “look inward”
to find a solution, he said. FIFA, soccer’s governing body, will
be told of the withdrawal formally, said Amechi, adding that the
country hasn’t contravened FIFA rules by withdrawing.  
 “The nation has been punished enough,” Amechi said of
Nigeria’s performance at the World Cup. “People have had heart
attacks because of Nigerian football.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        