-- Northwest Pacific Will Have Fewer Typhoons Than Average, Taiwan Forecasts
-- Yu-huay Sun
-- 2010-06-30T03:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/northwest-pacific-will-have-fewer-typhoons-than-average-taiwan-forecasts.html

          
          
             The Northwest Pacific region,
including Eastern China, Japan and Vietnam, will probably face
fewer typhoons than average this year because of cooler
temperatures in the Eastern Pacific, a Taiwanese forecaster said.  
 The number of typhoons and tropical storms may reach
between 20 and 23, compared with an average of 26.6 in the
past 30 years, Cheng Ming-Dean, a director at Taiwan’s  Central
Weather Bureau , told reporters in Taipei today.  
 “There’s a decline in sea temperatures in the East Pacific,
indicating development of a La Nina,” Cheng said. “That means
wind directions aren’t favorable for the forming of typhoons.”  
 The storms, known as hurricanes and tropical cyclones in
other regions, can cause landslides and push up food prices
because of crop damage. They can also disrupt transportation and
disable offshore oil and gas rigs, reducing production.  
 Taiwan may be struck by two to four typhoons this year, in
line with the 30-year average of 3.1, Cheng said.  
 Easterly winds will probably increase around the equator in
the West Pacific because of La Nina, curbing the development of
typhoons, Cheng said.  
 The region had 22 tropic storms and typhoons in 2009,
compared with the predicted range of between 24 and 27,
according to data from the bureau.  
 In the Gulf of Mexico, Alex strengthened to a hurricane as
energy companies made preparations for the storm to strike. BP
Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the biggest oil producers in the
Gulf, are evacuating hundreds of workers from platforms in the
western and central Gulf as a safety precaution.  
 Valero Energy Corp. , the largest U.S. refiner, has three
South Texas refineries that could be disrupted by the storm or
inland flooding, said  Bill Day , a spokesman for the company.
Valero has set aside emergency water, food and first-aid
supplies for those refineries at a distribution center for its
retail stores near its San Antonio headquarters.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yu-Huay Sun  in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        