-- NRG Says BP Spill May Slow Permitting Process for Offshore Wind-Power Farm
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-06-30T20:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/nrg-says-bp-spill-may-slow-permitting-process-for-offshore-wind-power-farm.html

          
          
             NRG Energy Inc.  said its wind-power
project off the coast of Delaware may take three times longer
than planned to get approved after BP Plc’s Gulf of Mexico oil
spill spurred a reorganization of federal offshore regulation.  
 The power producer still plans to get a permit for its $1
billion farm, which already has a contract to sell its 200
megawatts of output to a utility, in two to three years, said
 Peter Mandelstam , president of NRG’s wind unit. In a “worst-
case scenario,” the application that Princeton, New Jersey-
based NRG submitted to the federal government June 25 could
instead be tied up for seven and a half years, he said.  
 That’s because the Obama administration is revamping
regulation of offshore energy, including a splitting of the
former Minerals Management Service into three divisions, amid
criticism over the spill. MMS Director  Elizabeth Birnbaum 
stepped down after an April 20 blast on the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig, leased by BP, caused a record U.S. oil spill.  
 “The permitting process is uncertain at the moment,”
Mandelstam, 49, said today in a telephone interview. “We have
been caught up in the Deepwater Horizon oil disaster in the Gulf
of Mexico.”  
 Mandelstam said the permitting process could be longer than
planned if  NRG  has to deal with three different divisions of the
MMS, now known as the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement. Nicholas Pardi, a spokesman for the
agency, didn’t respond to a telephone message seeking comment.  
 Bluewater Wind  
 NRG  acquired the project with its purchase last year of
Bluewater Wind LLC, a developer of wind-power farms in the U.S.
Northeast. The Delaware project, which is scheduled to come
online in 2013 or 2014, was to be the first revenue-producing
asset from that transaction.  
 Pepco Holdings Inc.’s Delmarva Power & Light Co. utility
has a 25-year contract to buy the farm’s electricity. NRG and
 Pepco  agreed this year to extend the deadline by which NRG can
cancel the contract, Mandelstam said.  
 The restructuring could benefit the offshore wind-power
developers eventually if it leads to creation of a more
efficient agency equipped to deal with alternative energy
projects, said Tyler Tringas, an analyst with Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in New York.  
 The Obama administration predicted late last year that $80
billion in stimulus spending on renewable-energy initiatives
would help create more than 700,000 jobs. The administration
aims to double U.S. power generation from renewable sources such
as wind and solar.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        