-- Oates to Keep Day Job as PGA Tour Caddie Before Joining New Jersey Devils
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-30T20:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/oates-to-keep-day-job-as-pga-tour-caddie-before-joining-new-jersey-devils.html

          
          
             Before  Adam Oates  joins the New
Jersey Devils as the National Hockey League team’s new assistant
coach, he’ll try to help  Brett Quigley  make the cut at this
week’s PGA Tour event near Philadelphia.  
 Oates, who retired from the NHL as a player in 2004 after
19 seasons, has occasionally served as Quigley’s caddie this
golf season. So far, Quigley has made the 36-hole cut in two of
the four events he has partnered with the five-time All-Star.  
 Oates, 47, spent today carrying Quigley’s bag and helping
him read putts during a practice round for the AT&T National at
 Aronimink Golf Club  in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania.  
 “I’m here to work, seriously,” Oates said in an interview
while walking along the course today. “It’s his job. I’m not
out here to entertain myself. I really enjoy it and if there’s
anything I can help him with, I’ll try to help him.”  
 Oates and Quigley were brought together this year by Jim
Curran, a PGA Tour representative for Fortune Brands Inc.’s
Titleist brand, Quigley’s main sponsor. Both Quigley and Oates
describe themselves as “high-energy East Coast guys,” a
personality trait Curran said he thought would mesh well on the
golf course.  
 “He said we would hit it off and we have,” Oates said of
Quigley, who is winless with five runner-up finishes in his 10-
year PGA Tour career.  
 Quigley, 40, said Oates doesn’t seek any special treatment
on the course or want access to the player’s locker room. He
can usually be found hanging out with other caddies in the
club’s bag area and simply introduces himself as “Adam”
without mentioning his background. Other caddies eventually
recognize him.  
 Celebrity Looper  
 “It’s funny to see him down in the caddie area,” Quigley
said. “All of the other caddies look at him and say, ‘Holy
mackerel, that’s Adam Oates. What are you doing here?’ It’s
pretty cool.”  
 Oates declined to discuss whether Quigley pays him for the
job. A tour caddie typically makes between 5 percent and 8
percent of his player’s earnings each week, or 10 percent for a
victory. Some caddies have a standard weekly salary instead of a
percentage.  
 “I’m not out here for the money,” he said. “We’re
buddies. I love it out here. Being in the hunt and being around
the best in the world at their sport, it’s great. All jocks want
to play this game. I’m no different.”  
 The only thing Oates doesn’t really enjoy is lugging
Quigley’s packed golf bag up and down the hills of PGA Tour
courses. The bags can weigh around 50 pounds.  
 “It’s heavy,” he said. “There are some long days. I give
these guys a lot of credit.”  
 Oates said he intends to work for Quigley one or two more
times this summer before joining the Devils and  John MacLean ,
the team’s new coach. The team opens training camp in September.  
 “I told him we started that obviously I have a different
job,” Oates said. “But when our paths cross, they’ll cross.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania at 
   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        