-- Obama Defends Policies With Attack on Republicans
-- Julianna Goldman
-- 2010-06-30T19:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/obama-defends-economic-policies-with-attack-on-out-of-touch-republicans.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  defended his
economic policies and plans to rewrite the rules for Wall Street
with an attack on Republicans, saying their ideas have been
tried and failed.  
 “We know what their ideas are, we know where they led
us,” Obama said at a town-hall event today in Racine,
Wisconsin.  
 He called House Republican Leader  John Boehner  “out of
touch” for saying the financial regulatory overhaul bill backed
by the administration was like using a nuclear weapon to kill an
ant. Boehner made the remark in an  interview  with the Pittsburgh
Tribune-Review published June 29.  
 “He’s got to come here to Racine and ask people what they
think” about the financial crisis, Obama said. “There may be
those in Washington who want to maintain the status quo, but we
want to move America forward.”  
 The economy, jobs and the  deficit  are likely to be the top
issues in November elections that will decide control of
Congress. Heading into the campaign season, the administration
is confronted by public pessimism about the direction of the
economy and resistance in Congress to Obama’s proposals to
overhaul financial regulations and take additional measures to
boost the economy.  
 Republicans Respond  
 Before the president left Washington, the Republican
National Committee put out a press release saying Obama’s
policies “have never managed to meet his promises.”  
 A spokesman for Boehner,  Michael Steel , said Obama should
focus on cleaning up the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and
“scrapping his job-killing agenda.”  
 “It’s clear Boehner was not minimizing the crisis America
faced,” Steel said in an e-mailed statement. “He was pointing
out that Washington Democrats have produced a bill that will
actually kill more jobs and make the situation worse.”  
 Obama also brought up comments made by U.S. Representative
 Joe Barton , the top Republican on the Energy and Commerce
Committee, who described the $20 billion fund to pay economic
damages from the oil spill as a “shakedown” of  BP Plc  and
apologized to the company.  
 “He actually called it ‘a tragedy,’” Obama said. “A
tragedy is what the people of the Gulf are going through right
now.”  
 Barton was rebuked by Boehner and other Republican leaders
and later retracted his remarks.  
 Campaign Preview  
 Obama’s speech may be a preview the Democratic Party’s
strategy for the congressional elections.  
 “The president’s view is that there are these important
moments where there is clarity about how our view of the world
contrasts with the Republican view of the world,”  Bill Burton ,
deputy White House press secretary, told reporters.  
 As he has done for the past several months, Obama is using
the days before release of the monthly government report on the
nation’s unemployment rate to promote or propose initiatives on
job creation or relief for out-of-work Americans.  
 Obama said government action to extend unemployment
benefits and federal aid to states struggling to balance their
budget are needed to assure the recovery stays on track. The
economy is “headed in the right direction” even as many
Americans still are grappling with unemployment and depressed
 housing prices , he said.  
 Unemployment Report  
 The Labor Department is likely to report on July 2 that
unemployment rose to 9.8 percent in June from 9.7 percent in
May, according to the median forecast of 50 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Figures from ADP Employer Services showed
today that companies in the U.S. added fewer workers in June
than forecast.  
 Earlier this week, the Conference Board’s confidence index
slumped to 52.9 this month from a revised 62.7 in May. The gauge
was lower than all projections in a Bloomberg News survey of 71
economists.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  plunged 3.1 percent
yesterday to its lowest level since Oct. 30, on concern over
weakening growth in China and a slump in American consumer
confidence. The index increased 0.2 percent to 1,043.78 at 10:05
a.m. in New York today to trim its quarterly decline to less
than 11 percent.  
 After meeting yesterday with Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at the White House, Obama said the U.S. economy is
strengthening even as it faces “headwinds” because of concerns
about the European debt crisis.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Racine, Wisconsin, at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Obama Says He Won’t Delay Immigration Overhaul  
                       
                         
                           Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         President Barack Obama speaks during a town hall event in Racine, Wisconsin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Barack Obama speaks during a town hall event in Racine, Wisconsin. Photographer: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
