-- Foreign Ship Ban Debated in Obama's Response to BP Oil Spill
-- Kim Chipman
-- 2010-06-30T17:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/obama-pressed-to-end-foreign-ship-ban-in-debate-over-bp-oil-spill-cleanup.html

          
          
             The sign over the Dog House Deli in
Pensacola Beach, Florida, delivered the message: “President
 Barack Obama  Waive Jones Act.”  
 Nate Holler, who runs the family-owned hotdog shop, posted
the plea when Obama visited the coastal town on June 15. He is
among coastal residents who say the president should waive a 90-
year-old maritime law to speed foreign assistance in fighting
the  BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 “We have all these other countries willing to help,”
Holler, 24, said in an interview. “There is not enough
happening.”  
 The Jones Act, which bars foreign ships from transporting
goods between U.S. ports, has become a flash point in debate
over the spill. Opponents of the law, which applies to cleanup
vessels within three miles (4.83 kilometers) of shore, say it
should be suspended or repealed. The administration says foreign
vessels are already helping to combat the worst U.S. oil spill
so a blanket waiver isn’t needed.  
 “There are a lot of foreign vessels operating offshore,”
Coast Guard Admiral  Thad Allen , the government’s incident
commander, told reporters on June 25. The Coast Guard would be
happy to aid in requests for waivers, “but to date, since
they’re operating outside 3 miles, no Jones Act waiver has been
required.”  
 22 Offers Accepted  
 The U.S. is accepting 22 offers of help from 12 countries
and international organizations, the State Department said in a
 statement yesterday . The aid includes “two high-speed skimmers
and fire containment boom from Japan,” according to the
statement. The State Department didn’t immediately respond to a
question concerning whether the Jones Act would be waived for
the vessels.  
 Twenty-four foreign vessels are already working in the
Gulf, according to Clark Stevens, a spokesman for the Homeland
Security Department, in a phone interview. Coast Guard Rear
Admiral James A. Watson, the federal on-scene coordinator in the
Gulf, has put in place a process to allow Jones Act exemptions
if they prove necessary for foreign skimming vessels to operate
within three miles of the coast, according to Stevens.  
 That hasn’t eliminated assertions that the Jones Act is
slowing efforts to help. Fred McCallister, an investment banker
in Dallas with Allegiance Capital Corp., told a  Senate Commerce
Committee  hearing today that his proposal to assemble a fleet of
foreign ships for cleanup duty has been rebuffed by both BP and
the Coast Guard.  
 Greek Cruise Ship  
 “Allegiance Capital took it on itself to submit a request
for a Jones Act waiver” on June 21 and hasn’t received a formal
response, McCallister said.  
 McCallister said in a letter to Allen that he was seeking
waivers for 12 skimming boats and a Greek cruise ship that could
be used to store equipment and house 800 workers.  
 Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat, said he
questioned whether the government should spur competition
between foreign and U.S. vessels rather than giving preference
to “American vessels standing by.”  
 “I think that to challenge” Allen’s judgment “leaves us
scratching our heads,” Lautenberg said.  
 The Jones Act was passed on the grounds that preserving a
U.S.-flagged fleet would promote domestic and international
commerce and provide a merchant marine that can be called into
action in wars and emergencies.  
 ‘To Go Without’  
 Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison , a Texas Republican who
supports changing the law, said that “each hour that passes
without a waiver is one more hour that the communities in most
need of assistance are forced to go without.”  
 The law is championed by U.S. shipping companies such as
 Horizon Lines Inc.  and  Alexander & Baldwin Inc. ’s Matson
Navigation Co. and by maritime unions.  
 “It’s an urban myth that the Jones Act is the problem” in
the cleanup effort, said  Mark Ruge , counsel for the Maritime
Cabotage Task Force, a Washington-based group representing
companies led by Horizon and Matson. The law preserves a
domestic shipping industry that generates $100 billion a year in
revenue, Ruge said.  
 Kimberly McCloskey, an outside spokeswoman for Horizon of
Charlotte, North Carolina, and  Jeff Hull , a spokesman for
Oakland, California-based Matson, referred questions to Ruge’s
group.  
 McCain for Repeal  
 Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, introduced
legislation last week to repeal the Jones Act. He said in a
statement that eliminating the “antiquated and protectionist”
law may add almost $1 billion a year to the U.S. economy by
lowering shipping costs.  He based the estimate on a 2002 study
by the U.S. International Trade Commission that found the
economic cost of the law was as much as $656 million in 1999.  
 Bill Van Loo, secretary-treasurer of the  Marine Engineers’
Beneficial Association  in Washington, said the push by McCain
and others to suspend or repeal the law “seems like politics
more than a pragmatic approach.”  
 Attempts to dismantle the law are made periodically in an
effort to weaken unions, said Dennis McElwee, a maritime lawyer
in Houston.  
 Eliminating the Jones Act would “do away with the last
remaining union seamen in the U.S.,” McElwee said in an
interview, Fewer than 10 percent of U.S. maritime workers are in
unions today, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        