-- Oil Rises in New York, Snapping Two Days of Declines as Dollar Weakens
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-06-30T12:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/oil-rises-heading-for-monthly-gain-on-forecast-of-declining-u-s-supply.html

          
          
             Oil headed for a monthly increase,
before a report forecast to show crude inventories declined in
the U.S., the world’s largest energy-user.  
 Hurricane Alex has halted about 25 percent of crude
production in the Gulf of Mexico and 9 percent of natural-gas
output, the U.S. government said. U.S. crude stockpiles  probably
dropped  1 million barrels in the week ended June 25 from 365.1
million the prior week, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before today’s Energy Department report. Crude was still heading
for its first quarterly decline since 2008.  
 “Today’s Energy Department data may help prices,” said
 Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich
in Vienna. “While the supply picture does not support crude in
the short term, demand is becoming a bit better. Much depends on
risk aversion, so if equity markets recover, crude will go up.”  
 Oil for August delivery traded for $75.96 a barrel, 2 cents
higher on the New York Mercantile Exchange as of 1:35 p.m.
London time. Brent crude for August delivery was up 2 cents at
$75.46 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  
 Crude has lost 9.3 percent in New York since the end of
March and 4.3 percent this year. The commodity pared earlier
gains of as much as 1.2 percent after data from ADP Employer
Services showed the U.S. added fewer jobs than economists
estimated in June.  
 The contract has advanced 2.8 percent in June.  
 The  Dollar Index , which measures the U.S. currency against
those of six major trading partners, fell for the first time in
three days, losing 0.3 percent on concern economic growth may
falter, stoking demand for commodities as an alternative
investment.  
 Hurricane Alex  
 Oil also advanced as Alex became the first June Atlantic
hurricane since 1995, prompting oil and gas companies in the
Gulf of Mexico to evacuate offshore workers and prepare for
possible storm surges that affect coastal refineries. The Gulf
Coast is home to 43 percent of operable U.S. refining capacity,
according to the  Energy Department .  
 Oil and gas producers reported that three rigs and 28
platforms have been evacuated because of the storm, the Bureau
of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement said
today in a  statement  on its website. Almost 396,000 barrels of
daily oil output remain shut-in, along with 600 million cubic
feet of gas.  
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’  oil
output dropped from a 17-month high in June, led by a decline in
Nigeria, a separate Bloomberg News survey showed.  
 OPEC production slipped 157,000 barrels, or 0.5 percent, to
an average 29.23 million barrels a day, according to the survey.
Output by members with quotas, all except Iraq, dropped 122,000
barrels to 26.865 million, 2.02 million above their target.  
 U.S. Stockpiles  
 U.S. crude inventories dropped 3.4 million barrels last
week, according to a report yesterday from the industry-funded
American Petroleum Institute.  
 “Everyone understands now that it will take more time than
expected for the economy of America to get better,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity derivatives sales manager at broker
Newedge Group in Tokyo.  
 The Energy Department will release its weekly report on
demand and supply at 10:30 a.m. local time in Washington.  
 U.S. stockpiles  probably dropped  1 million barrels in the
week ended June 25 from 365.1 million the prior week, according
to the median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
before tomorrow’s government report. It would be the first
decline in three weeks.  
 Distillate fuel supplies, including diesel and heating oil,
rose 3.9 million barrels to 158.7 million, the API said.
Gasoline stockpiles fell 908,000 barrels to 220.2 million.  
 Oil-supply totals from the API and Energy Department moved
in the same direction 75 percent of the time over the past four
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Crude supplies at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for
the New York futures, dropped by 1.9 million barrels to 36
million, the biggest decline since the week of Sept. 11,
according to the API.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net 
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        