-- Oil Dispersants Have Similar Effects on Aquatic Life in Tests, EPA Finds
-- Jeff Plungis
-- 2010-06-30T22:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/oil-dispersants-have-similar-effects-on-aquatic-life-in-tests-epa-finds.html

          
          
             Tests on eight dispersants used on
oil spills show all have similar effect on marine life and none
act as endocrine disruptors, chemicals that can interfere with
reproduction, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said.  
 The EPA tested products including Corexit, used by  BP Plc 
to clean up its Gulf of Mexico oil spill, to ensure that
decisions about dispersants are based on the best scientific
evidence,  Paul Anastas , assistant administrator for research and
development, said today on a conference call with reporters.  
 “Oil was enemy No. 1 in this crisis,” Anastas said on the
call. The EPA’s results indicate the eight dispersants,
including Nalco Holding Co.’s Corexit 9500 used by BP, show
roughly the same impact on aquatic life, Anastas said.  
 Two dispersants, Corexit 9500 and JD-2000, were generally
less toxic to small fish, the EPA tests showed. JD-2000 and SAF-
RON GOLD were among the least toxic alternatives to mysid
shrimp. The EPA also tested Dispersit SPC 1000, Nokomis 3-F4,
Nokomis 3-AA, ZI-400 and Sea Brat #4, all listed on a national
contingency plan.  
 BP, which was asked by the EPA on May 24 to cut back its
use of Corexit, has since reduced the volume by about 70 percent
since the April 20 spill, Anastas said. Regulators aren’t
recommending that BP switch chemicals, he said.  
 The tests evaluated the toxicity of the chemicals without
being mixed with water, Anastas said. Additional toxicity tests
are planned on the oil and the mixture of oil and dispersants,
he said.  
 The EPA said dispersants biodegrade in weeks, haven’t been
found in water-column tests and haven’t settled on the Gulf
floor, according to a statement from Nalco today.  
 “We have always supported a systematic, science-based
process to evaluate the dispersants being used to break up the
oil spilling into the Gulf of Mexico,” David Horsup, a Nalco
division vice president, said in the statement. “We agree that
additional testing on alternative products is needed.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        