-- Senate Panel Moves to Lift Cap on Oil Spill Damages
-- Kim Chipman
-- 2010-06-30T18:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/oil-spills-damage-cap-would-be-lifted-in-measure-passed-by-senate-panel.html

          
          
             BP Plc  would have unlimited
financial liability for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill under a
measure approved today by a Senate panel to scrap a $75 million
limit under a 20-year-old law.  
 The amendment to the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 would force
offshore oil drillers responsible for spills to pay “the full
cost” of damages. The Senate Environment and Public Works
Committee approved the measure by voice vote and sent it to the
full Senate.  
 President  Barack Obama  supports raising the ceiling and has
faulted Republicans for blocking efforts to make BP more fully
liable for damages tied to the worst U.S. oil spill. BP Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  has said he expects the liability
limit to be increased. The legislation approved today replaced a
proposal to boost the limit from $75 million to $10 billion.  
 “We aren’t sure $10 billion is enough,” Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat and member of the committee, said in
an interview.  
 Committee Chairman  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat,
said Americans shouldn’t be forced to pick up the tab for damage
caused by the BP oil spill that began April 20 when a drilling
rig exploded.  
 “No taxpayer bailouts,” she said before the vote.  
 ‘Legitimate Claims’  
 BP will honor all “legitimate” claims from those harmed,
such as the region’s fishing and tourist industry, regardless of
any cap, Hayward has said.  
 The company has been unable to stop the flow of oil from
the leaking well in the Gulf. The gushing crude has soiled at
least 140 miles of coastline and shut down as much as a third of
fishing areas in the region.  
 Companies responsible for spills already face unlimited
costs related to cleanup and for actions deemed to be in the
category of “gross negligence.”  
 Previous Democratic efforts to lift the limit on liability
were blocked by Republicans, who said a higher limit would make
it financially prohibitive for independent producers to drill.  
 “Thousands of jobs, particularly along the Gulf Coast,
could be lost,” Republican Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska
said last month at a Senate Energy panel hearing.  
 Oil companies say increasing or eliminating the liability
cap would discourage domestic exploration and make independent
oil and natural gas operations in the Gulf uninsurable.  
 Smaller Firms  
 Raising the cap “would limit Gulf operations to only the
largest companies, forcing mid-size and smaller firms who cannot
self-insure from the market,”  Jack Gerard , president of
American Petroleum Institute, a Washington-based trade group,
said on May 13.  
 Senator  James Inhofe  of Oklahoma, the senior Republican on
the committee, sought unsuccessfully today to introduce an
alternative giving U.S. presidents the power to set liability
limits based on the circumstances of a particular offshore
drilling facility, including insurance.  
 Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, failed in a
bid to limit attorney’s fees to 5 percent for any claim
recovered under the Oil Pollution Act.  
 The committee accepted a Vitter amendment requiring  Kenneth Feinberg , who is overseeing a $20 billion fund for victims of
the BP spill, to report to Congress twice a year on the status
and payments from the fund.  
 The Senate committee also approved today a separate measure
that would set up an office at the Interior Department to
research oil-spill prevention and response and would authorize
grants to universities to pursue related research.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        