-- Tokyo `Electric Town' Gets Mandarin Makeover as Sony Lures China Tourists
-- Maki Shiraki
-- 2010-06-30T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/tokyo-electric-town-gets-mandarin-makeover-as-sony-lures-china-tourists.html

          
          
             Na She paid $1,000 for  Sony Corp. ’s
NEX-5D camera after flying 1,500 miles from China to shop in
Tokyo’s Akihabara, the city’s main shopping district for
electronics.  
 “The latest models are hard to find in my hometown,” said
Na, a 42-year-old business owner from Hubei, central China. “My
favorite brand is Sony because it’s the most famous.”  
 As a decline in Japan’s  population  reduces the number of
consumers, the more than 120 electronics stores in Akihabara are
welcoming Chinese tourists with seven-foot billboards and
Mandarin-speaking assistants. The push for more visitors is
aided by the government, which from today relaxed visa
requirements for the Chinese, the biggest-spending tourists.  
 “Money isn’t an issue to Chinese customers as long as they
like the product,” said Hajime Kikuchi, 34, a director of
business planning at electronics retailer  Laox Co.  “They buy
one thing after another without a second thought.”  
 Japan may see a drop of domestic consumption of about 6
trillion yen ($67 billion) every five years because of the
shrinking population, according to Ryoji Maku, a researcher at
Mitsubishi Research Institute Inc. China, whose economy may
surpass Japan’s this year, could offset those losses, as its
wealthiest citizens travel abroad more.  
 “China is the key for the plan, given the size of its
population and increasing buying power,” Maku said.  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is targeting tourism as one of
seven strategic areas that could help jumpstart consumer
spending and end deflation.  
 Easing Visa Rules  
 The new visa rules may boost the number of Chinese visitors
tenfold to 10 million annually, the Foreign Ministry said,
without giving a timeframe. Chinese visitors spend an average
$1,300 per trip, compared with $340 by South Koreans and $280 by
Americans, according to the  Japan National Tourism Organization .  
 Visitors  from China rose by 0.6 percent to 1 million last
year, while those from South Korea dropped by 33 percent to 1.6
million and Taiwanese were down 26 percent to just over a
million, according to the Japan National Tourism Organization.  
 Kan, in a medium-term plan announced on June 18, is seeking
to restore 2 percent economic growth, end deflation and at the
same time cut the budget deficit to contain the world’s biggest
public  debt . Japan’s economy grew an annualized 5 percent in the
first quarter, led by exports.  
 Return to Profit  
 Sony, which posted its first consecutive annual loss, is
forecasting a return to profit of 50 billion yen this fiscal
year to March 2011. Sales may rise 5.4 percent to 7.6 trillion
yen, the first increase in three years, on demand for
televisions, cameras and computers, the company said.  
 While sales from tourists aren’t significant, the business
“has been going well and we expect the trend to continue,”
said Koichi Taniguchi, a Sony spokesman in Tokyo. The company
supplies tourist maps to Akihabara and includes instruction
manuals in Chinese.  
 Akihabara,  located  five minutes north of Tokyo station by
train, started as a black market after World War II, according
to the  website  of the Akihabara Electrical Town Organization.
The town soon developed into a major shopping area as Japanese
consumers rushed to buy televisions, refrigerators and other
white goods.  
 The area became known as a testing ground for electronics
makers, which often sold the latest devices before they were
exported. The area now has Internet cafes, game software shops
and costume-themed restaurants where waitresses dress up as
maids, nurses or schoolgirls.  
 “Manufacturers prioritized Akihabara in shipping new
products because they relied on the town to get information on
consumer trends,” said Tomio Izumi, the secretary-general of
Akihabara Tourism Promotion Association. The area attracts about
420,000 Chinese tourists annually, according to the association.  
 Expanding in China  
 Yamada Denki Co. , Japan’s biggest retailer of electronics
goods, hired about 100 new graduates who speak Mandarin or
Cantonese and plans to open an outlet in Shenyang, in the
northeast of China, its first overseas outlet, by year-end.  
 Bic Camera Inc. , the nation’s  No.4  electronics retailer by
market value, plans to double the number of outlets that have a
section dedicated to overseas tourists.  
 To further encourage Chinese tourism, the Akihabara
association may hold a festival and put advertisements in
inflight magazines on routes between Tokyo and Chinese cities,
said Naoyuki Ishihara, vice secretary-general of the Akihabara
Tourism Promotion Association.  
 “Akihabara is a town flooded with electric appliances and
you’ll find many more choices and newer products here,” said Ji
Hai, a 36-year-old Shanghai-based employee at a Japan-China
venture who spent more than 100,000 yen on “several digital
cameras for gifts.”  
 ‘Good Quality’  
 Laox, which is 29 percent  owned  by China’s biggest
electronics chain  Suning Appliance Co. , expects the number of
customers to triple in the fiscal half starting July because of
the new visa rules, according to Kikuchi.  
 Pei Wong, a 45-year-old power plant engineer from Shanghai,
last week headed straight to a Laox outlet in Akihabara to buy a
 Canon Inc.  single-lens-reflex EOS 50D camera and the latest Sony
Cyber-shot model.  
 “I have a good impression of Japanese products because
they are high-tech and are good quality,” said Wong, who spent
about 250,000 yen on his first visit to Akihabara. “SLR cameras
are cheaper here than in China.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
 Maki Shiraki  in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tourists from China stand outside a Laox Co. shop in the Akihabara district of Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Tourists from China ride on a bus as they leave a Laox Co. shop in the Akihabara district of Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Promotional signs written in Chinese are displayed as tourists from China browse through a Laox Co. shop in the Akihabara district of Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
