-- Petrom to Sell Licenses in 20 Romanian Oil Fields (Correct)
-- Zoe Schneeweiss
-- 2010-07-01T07:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/omv-petrom-to-sell-exploration-licenses-in-20-mature-romanian-oil-fields.html

          
          
             (Corrects to say production licenses in story published
yesterday.)  
 OMV Petrom SA, Romania’s largest oil
and gas company, plans to sell production licenses in about 20
mature oil fields in Romania.  
 “This is part of the process to optimize the oilfield
portfolio,” Ramona Zanfirescu, a Petrom spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed statement answering questions from Bloomberg News.  
 Petrom will auction off the licenses, Zanfirescu said.
Companies wishing to participate in the auction must be
registered with the Agency for Mineral Resources and can’t have
debts to the Romanian government.  
 At the end of 2009, Petrom had licenses for 256 oil and gas
fields on 15 onshore perimeters and 2 offshore perimeters in
Romania. Production from the fields in 2009 fell 4 percent to
180,815 barrels of oil equivalent a day from 188,476 barrels the
previous year.  
 “It definitely makes sense for Petrom to concentrate on
the high-yield licenses while selling those of which little
returns can be expected,” said Philipp Chladek, an analyst at
Raiffeisen Centrobank AG in Vienna, who rates Petrom at
“hold.”  
 OMV AG at its Capital Markets Day said that it took its
experts five years of majority ownership in Petrom to come up
with a “funded estimate of how much oil there really is still
left in Romania,” Chladek said. “This explains why OMV
recently revised its production targets downward, and the sale
of the least-rewarding fields can also be seen in this
respect.”  
 OMV, central Europe’s biggest oil company, holds a 51
percent stake in Petrom.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        