-- Honda Workers Bypass `Toothless' China Unions, Fueling Strikes
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-30T23:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/honda-workers-bypass-china-s-toothless-unions-fueling-wildcat-strikes.html

          
          
             When Huang Fengxia and her co-workers
at Honda Lock Co. (Guangdong)’s factory in Zhongshan, China,
decided to strike on June 9 for higher wages, the last person
they considered contacting was their labor union representative.  
 “I have no idea what a labor union is or what they do,”
said Huang, 26, whose one yuan ($0.15) monthly union membership
fee gives her no access to collective bargaining, just a twice-
yearly 200 yuan gift voucher during Chinese festivals. “It’s
like a school club.”  
 Strikes at plants of Japanese automakers  Honda Motors Co .
and  Toyota Motor Corp . mark an escalation in labor disputes in
China, the world’s biggest manufacturer after the U.S., as a
dwindling supply of cheap rural labor pushes up wage demands.
With no effective labor unions to negotiate with to head off
stoppages, China’s factories face increased costs and lost
production, said  Mary Gallagher , director of the Center for
Chinese Studies at the University of Michigan.  
 “These disputes are troublesome for employers and
employees because they require time and money to resolve,” said
Gallagher. “If there was an apparatus that allowed for
collective bargaining and negotiation, we might see a decline or
stabilization in labor disputes.”  
 Profit at Honda may be cut by as much as 10 billion yen
($113 million), after Japan’s second-largest carmaker suffered
the worst strikes in its 18-year-history in China, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said. At least 10 suicides at  Foxconn Technology
Group , the maker of Apple Inc. iPhones and Hewlett-Packard Co.
computers, led the Taiwanese electronics company to double wages
for its lowest paid employees in Shenzhen.  
 ‘Toothless’ Unions  
 “Historically, China’s labor unions have been rather
toothless,” said Li Qiang, founder of  China Labor Watch , a New
York-based labor advocacy group. “When Honda factory workers
went on strike they had no intention of using the union to
negotiate. Workers had no idea about the concept.”  
 The  All China Federation of Trade Unions , which represents
China’s 169 registered labor unions, is closely affiliated to
the government, hindering its efforts to win concessions and
higher wages, Li said. The federation, founded in 1925, uses
“the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China as the
fundamental criterion for their activities,” according to its
website. A spokesman for the federation said it “represents the
interests of the Chinese workers” and was not a government
agency.  
 Labor organizations in the West such as the Detroit-based
 United Auto Workers  union and the U.K.’s Trades Union Congress
operate independently of the government and hire their own
lawyers to advise on labor issues.  
 ‘Huge Opportunity’  
 “The workers are crying out for proper representation,”
said  Geoffrey Crothall ,  China Labor Bulletin ’s Hong Kong-based
spokesman, in a Bloomberg Television interview. “If the union
wanted to get involved and act in the workers’ interests, now is
the time.”  
 During Honda’s second China strike at Foshan Fengfu
Autoparts Co. in Foshan on June 7, plant workers demanded the
right to elect their own union representatives as part of an
agreement to end the stoppage.  
 Investment in western China is deterring workers from
migrating, pushing up pay in more industrialized regions like
Guangdong, said David Abrahamson, Project Manager in Shenzhen
for the China Center for Labor and Environment. Today,  Shenzhen 
raises its minimum wage to 1,100 yuan a month from 900 yuan.  
 China Wages  
 Most Honda line workers are hired from local technical
schools and their average wage is about 4,000 yuan ($586) a
month, including overtime, the company said in April. That
compares with an average of 357,324 yen ($3,800) for Honda’s
workers in  Japan .  
 Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, stopped production
twice in China as strikes at suppliers in Tianjin and Guangzhou
disrupted operations.  
 “We and our suppliers are working toward improving and
strengthening sharing of information about labor-related issues
to resolve any problems as quickly as possible,” said Toyota
spokeswoman  Ririko Takeuchi  in Tokyo.  
 Honda suppliers agreed to raise wages 24 percent at its
factory in Foshan after the first strike shut all four of the
carmaker’s factories on the mainland.  Yoshiyuki Kuroda , a Tokyo-
based Honda spokesman, said the company was not in a position to
comment on the role of unions in China.  
 “Having a more organized and stronger collective voice
among labor is a good thing,” said  Bill Russo , a Beijing-based
senior adviser at Booz & Co., which advises automakers and
investors. “The closer the co-ordination is among individuals,
the easier it is for business to speak and manage a more
effective relationship with the large number of employees.”  
 Press Watchdog  
 China Labor Watch’s  Li  said development of effective unions
is hindered by corruption and the absence of a critical press.
Berlin-based anti-graft watchdog Transparency International
ranked China 79th out of 180 countries in its  Corruption
Perceptions Index  last year, on par with Burkina Faso.  
 “In places such as the U.S., where the press acts as an
external watchdog for worker unions, there is much more
transparency,” said Li. “In China, the press is government-
linked, there is no such supervision.”  
 Collective bargaining organizations  will take time to
mature, said  Huang Yasheng , a professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of Management in
Cambridge, Massachusetts. He cited the evolution of labor unions
in Singapore and Korea in the 1960s and 1970s.  
 “Eventually both countries transitioned out of the active
curbing of the unions,” said Huang in a June 18 e-mail. “The
issue for China, is that the country should have grown out of
this restriction 10 years ago.”  
 -- Liza Lin  in Singapore,  Stephanie Wong  in Shanghai. With
assistance from  Christine Hah  in Hong Kong,  Makiko Kitamura  in
Tokyo and  Alfred Cang  in Shanghai. Editors:  Adam Majendie ,  Bret Okeson .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at   llin15@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Workers leave the Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. factory after finishing their shift in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, China. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Shaun Rein, managing director of China Market Research Group, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the threat of inflation in China and its potential impact on cost of living expenses.
     At least nine Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum wages by as much as a third today after Premier Wen Jiabao called for measures to head off growing worker unrest in the world’s third-largest economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
