-- Hong Kong Stocks Drop on U.S. Consumer Confidence; Foxconn Dips on Warning
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-06-30T08:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/hong-kong-stocks-drop-on-u-s-consumer-confidence-foxconn-dips-on-warning.html

          
          
             Hong Kong stocks  dropped, dragging
the Hang Seng Index to a two-week low, after a slump in a
measure of U.S. consumer confidence heightened investors’
concern the recovery in the world’s biggest economy will falter.  
 Li & Fung Ltd. , the largest supplier for retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., dropped 3.7 percent.  Foxconn
International Holdings Ltd. , the world’s biggest contract maker
of mobile phones, declined 6.9 percent after predicting a wider
first-half loss. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of
the metal, fell 0.5 percent after commodity prices slumped the
most in 10 months.  
 The  Hang Seng Index  dropped 0.6 percent to 20,128.99, its
lowest close since June 15. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index  of so-called H-shares of Chinese companies declined 0.6
percent to 11,466.24.  
 “People are still cautious given signs of economic
slowdown,” said  Terrace Chum , who helps manage about $6 billion
at MFC Global Investment Management in Hong Kong. “We need to
have a clearer sense of where the Chinese economy is heading.”  
 The Hang Seng Index has dropped 5.2 percent this quarter,
extending its decline this year to 8 percent, as worries about
budget deficits in Europe and tighter monetary policy in China
dented confidence in the strength of the global economy.  
 Shares of exporters declined after the Conference Board’s
U.S. consumer confidence index fell to 52.9 this month, below
the lowest forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
from a revised 62.7 in May, figures released by the New York-
based private research group yesterday showed. The index
averaged 97 during the economic expansion that ended in December
2007.  
 Li & Fung, Foxconn  
 Li & Fung, which counts the U.S. as its biggest market,
dropped 3.7 percent to HK$35.15.  China Cosco Holdings Co. , the
nation’s largest container carrier, slipped 1.5 percent to
HK$8.03.  
 Foxconn slumped 6.9 percent to HK$5.11, the biggest decline
in the Hang Seng Index today. The supplier to Nokia Oyj and
Motorola Inc. said losses in the first half will be more than
the $19 million it reported last year due to lower product
prices and higher depreciation costs.  
 Margins of exporters are also getting squeezed due to
rising labor costs in China, MFC Global’s Chum said. Foxconn
this month raised salaries at its factories in China and pledged
to double them by October after being criticized for
contributing to worker suicides.  
 Recession Signals  
 Futures on the Hang Seng Index lost 0.5 percent to 20,093.
Five stocks dropped for every three that rose on the 43-member
gauge. Shares on the benchmark index are priced at an average
 13.3 times  estimated earnings, down from 18 times on Nov. 16,
when the gauge closed at its 2009 high.  
 Jiangxi Copper slid 0.5 percent to HK$14.70.  Aluminum Corp.
of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest supplier of the metal,
dropped 1.8 percent to HK$6.02. United Co. Rusal, the world’s
biggest aluminum producer, declined 4.2 percent to HK$7.09.  
 Shares of raw material suppliers slipped after the
 Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index , which tracks prices of commodities
from copper to corn, dropped 2.8 percent in New York yesterday,
its biggest decline since August 2009.  
 Concerns over the strength of economic growth in China
weighed on Hong Kong stocks for a second day. There are
“recession signals in China,”  Jim Walker , managing director at
Asianomics Ltd., said on Bloomberg Television from Singapore.  
 Bank Stocks  
 Stocks fell yesterday after the Conference Board revised
its China leading economic index to an increase of 0.3 percent
in April, less than the 1.7 percent gain initially reported on
June 15. The research group said yesterday that the previous
release contained a calculation error.  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s
biggest lender, slipped 0.7 percent to HK$5.72. China
Construction Bank Corp., the second-biggest, lost 0.8 percent to
HK$6.34.  Bank of Communications Co. , the fourth-largest, dropped
1.4 percent to HK$8.29.  
 Declines in banking shares have also been attributed to
concern Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s initial public
offering may divert investor funds away from other lenders
during a slump in the nation’s equity markets.  
 “The size of the IPO is big, but there’s still plenty of
liquidity in the market,”  Ronald Arculli , chairman of Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., said at an investor conference today
in the Chinese city. “So there’s a psychological impact rather
than actual impact.”  
 Agricultural Bank said on June 28 it set a price range for
the Shanghai part of its IPO that will allow it to raise as much
as $20.1 billion.  
 Lee & Man Paper Manufacturing Ltd.  dropped 1.5 percent to
HK$5.82. Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the stock to
“neutral” from “outperform.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        