-- Moody's Cuts DHCOG Junk Rating Further as Dubai Property Slump Continues
-- Haris Anwar
-- 2010-06-30T14:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/moody-s-cuts-dhcog-junk-rating-further-as-dubai-property-slump-continues.html

          
          
             Dubai Holding Commercial Operations
Group LLC’s debt, already carrying a junk rating, was cut
further by Moody’s Investors Service on a slumping property
market that has seen prices fall 50 percent in the emirate.  
 Moody’s lowered the senior unsecured issuer and debt
ratings on the real-estate and hospitality company owned by
Dubai’s ruler one level to B2, five levels below investment
grade, while assigning a probability of default to the company.
The ratings remain under review for further possible cut.  
 “As a significant portion of DHCOG’s revenues remain
linked to the property sector, growth in future cash flows will
be correlated to a recovery in Dubai’s weak real-estate
market,”  David Staples , managing director at the rating
company’s corporate finance group, wrote in a report e-mailed
today.  
 Dubai Holding Commercial this month reported a full-year
loss of 22.8 billion dirhams ($6.2 billion) after property
prices plunged in the Gulf’s trade and tourism hub. Dubai real-
estate prices have slumped more than 50 percent from their
August 2008 peak as mortgages dried up, according to estimates
from Colliers International.  
 May 20  
 Dubai Holding Commercial’s $500 million floating-rate note
due February 2012 traded at 80.62 cents on the dollar at 6 p.m.
in Dubai, according to BNP Paribas London prices available on
Bloomberg. The price has doubled since reaching a record low in
December.  
 Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
business groups, on May 20 reached an agreement with a group of
creditors to restructure $23.5 billion of liabilities. The
holding company’s announcement on Nov. 25 that it would seek to
delay repaying loans sparked a plunge in developing-nation
stocks and the largest increase in emerging-market bond yields
over U.S. Treasuries in four weeks. The cost to protect against
a default by Dubai doubled.  
 Dubai Holding LLC, Dubai Holding Commercial’s parent, and
its units owe banks $12 billion and have begun talks to roll
over some loans, a person with knowledge of the matter said on
May 10. Dubai Holding Commercial has about $4.08 billion of debt
outstanding and needs to roll over a $555 million loan maturing
in July, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said June 3.  
 ’’Given the company’s current cash position as well as
expected cash generation, internal resources would not be
sufficient to cover this maturity,’’ Moody’s said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        