-- Top-Seed Federer Defeated by Berdych in Wimbledon; Nadal, Murray Advance
-- James Cone
-- 2010-06-30T18:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/top-seed-roger-federer-upset-by-tomas-berdych-in-wimbledon-quarterfinals.html

          
          
             Roger Federer  lost to  Tomas Berdych 
in the quarterfinals at Wimbledon today, the six-time champion’s
earliest exit at the All England Club since 2002.  
 The Swiss right-hander, who has appeared in every Wimbledon
final since 2003, was beaten 6-4, 3-6, 6-1, 6-4 by Berdych, the
12th seed from the Czech Republic. Top-ranked  Rafael Nadal , the
No. 2 seed, advanced in four sets against  Robin Soderling .  
 “I’m very happy with my performance today, I was playing
really well,” Berdych told reporters.  
 Federer, who had been seeking to tie  Pete Sampras ’s Open
era men’s record of seven titles at the London grass courts, led
Berdych 8-2 in career meetings before today. The 28-year-old had
been seeded No. 1 and was the 11-8 pre-tournament favorite at
British bookmaker William Hill Plc to win Wimbledon.  
 Berdych will play third-seeded  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia for
a spot in the championship match. Djokovic defeated unseeded
 Yen-Hsun Lu  of Taiwan 6-3, 6-2, 6-2. Spain’s Nadal won 3-6, 6-3,
7-6 (7-4), 6-1 against Soderling in a repeat of the French Open
final and will face  Andy Murray , a 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (7-5), 6-2, 6-
2 winner over  Jo-Wilfried Tsonga .  
 Federer said at his post-match news conference that he was
bothered by back and leg trouble.  
 “If I’m healthy, I can handle these guys,” he said.
“When you can’t play freely, that’s the kind of performance you
get.”  
 Last Exit  
 The last time Federer failed to reach the Wimbledon final
came the year before he won the championship for the first time,
going out in the first round against  Mario Ancic .  
 Consistently attacking Federer’s serve and backhand,
Berdych moved the defending champion around the court with
powerful ground strokes and serves of up to 137 miles per hour.
The Czech right-hander produced 51 winners, while Federer had
44. Federer converted one of eight breakpoints, while Berdych
converted four of six.  
 Berdych raised his arms and pointed to his private box
after he converted his second match point with a forehand
winner. After shaking Federer’s hand, the 24-year-old sank into
his chair, smiling broadly. Just before leaving Centre Court,
Federer turned around and waved at the crowd, receiving a loud
cheer.  
 Difficult Serve  
 Serving for the match had been difficult, Berdych said.
Federer had saved one match point as the Czech served at 5-4 in
the fourth set.  
 “If I can just go through my career, it was the toughest
one to serve and close out,” Berdych said. “I’m pretty
happy.”  
 Berdych beat Federer the last time they played, in the
round of 16 in Miami in March, when he overcame a match point.
He also beat Federer at the 2004 Olympics, in the round of 32.  
 Federer last year became only the sixth man to win all four
majors in a career when he triumphed at the French Open. He went
on to claim a record-breaking 15th Grand Slam singles title at
Wimbledon and took his 16th at the start of this season at the
Australian Open.  
 He came back from two sets down to win his opening-round
match against 60th-ranked  Alejandro Falla  of Colombia last week.
He said afterward that his game had been “in disarray.”  
 Berdych is the first man from the former Czechoslovakia to
advance to the last four at Wimbledon since  Ivan Lendl  in 1990.
Jan Kodes won in 1973.  
 Quarterfinals Loser  
 Federer now has lost in the  quarterfinals  of two
consecutive Grand Slams. As defending champion, he was upset by
Sweden’s Soderling at the French Open, ending his record streak
of 23 straight Grand Slam semifinals.  
 Federer lost to  Lleyton Hewitt  in the final at Halle,
Germany, a week before the start of Wimbledon -- his second loss
on grass in seven years, and his first defeat by the Australian
in 16 meetings.  
 Nadal, the 2008 champion who missed Wimbledon last year
with a knee injury, is looking for his eighth Grand Slam title
after winning at the French Open earlier this month.  
 He quickly trailed 5-0 in the first set today against
Soderling, eventually losing 6-3.  
 Soderling had break point in the first game of the second
set after successfully challenging a baseline call, with the
umpire giving the point to the Swede. Nadal, who’d returned into
the net, argued that the point should be replayed.  
 Nadal saved the break, celebrating by jumping in the air
and pumping his fists, then won the next two points.  
 Nadal Breaks  
 The Spaniard broke in the next game, with Soderling failing
this time with a challenge after pushing a forehand just wide.
With the remainder of the set staying with serve he tied the
match at 1-1. Nadal took the third in a tie-break before
dominating the fourth.  
 Murray is in the semifinals for a second straight year
after recovering to defeat France’s Tsonga in four sets on
Centre Court.  
 He is aiming to become the first Briton to win the men’s
title at the only grass court Grand Slam since Fred Perry in
1936.  
 Djokovic, the 2008 Australian Open champion, will play in
the Wimbledon semifinals for a second time after stopping Lu’s
bid to become the first Asian man in the Open era to reach the
last four at a Grand Slam.  
 “I was struggling with the level of my performance
throughout the last five, six months,” Djokovic said. “But
right now I’m playing great.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
 James Cone  at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at +44-
   jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        