-- Indian Stocks Beat Top 20 Markets in Second Quarter on Econonic Expansion
-- Rajhkumar K Shaaw
-- 2010-06-30T13:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/most-sensex-index-stocks-decline-amid-concern-rate-rise-will-curb-growth.html

          
          
             Indian stocks climbed, boosting the
benchmark index by the most among the world’s 20 largest markets
in the second quarter, as a government official said the lifting
of fuel-price caps will halve oil company losses.  
 Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , the country’s biggest exploration
company, completed a 20 percent advance in the three months
ended June.  Kaushik Basu , chief economic adviser at the finance
ministry, said freeing fuel prices from government control will
also lower pump prices within six to nine months.  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
gained 166.81, or 1 percent, to 17,700.90. The gauge also
climbed 1 percent in the three months ended June, its longest
quarterly winning streak since at least September 1979,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Sensex has climbed
in every quarter since Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in May 2009
led the Congress party to its biggest electoral victory in two
decades, pledging to cut a fiscal deficit and boost growth.  
 “The oil reform shows the government is committed to
fiscal prudence,” said  Gopal Agrawal , head of equities at the
local office of Mirae Asset Financial Group, which has $2.5
billion invested in India. “Everybody is looking at India very
positively because even in the worst financial crisis, its
growth was held at a higher level.”  
 The S&P CNX  Nifty  Index on the National Stock Exchange rose
1.1 percent to 5,312.50. The  BSE 200 Index  increased 0.8 percent
to 2,248.06. Indian equities climbed even as the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index  declined to its lowest level in almost three weeks,
as an unexpected drop in U.S. consumer confidence added to
concern sparked by the downward revision of an economic
indicator for China yesterday.  
 India’s $1.2 trillion economy expanded 8.6 percent in the
three months through March from a year earlier, the fastest pace
after China and Brazil among major economies. Finance Minister
 Pranab Mukherjee  said June 22 the nation’s annual economic
growth may exceed 10 percent in the next five years.  
 Profit Growth  
 Mirae’s Agrawal expects earnings of Sensex companies to
climb as much as 23 percent in the year ending March. That would
be the best profit growth in three years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The Sensex is  trading  at 17 times estimated profit, the
highest in Asia excluding Japan and the most expensive among the
BRIC markets, which also include China, Brazil and Russia.  
 “Locally, everything seems to be right,” said  Rahul Jain ,
head of India sales at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai. “The
economy seems to be doing well, corporate results seem to be
better, and that’s why the market is going at a premium. We
could see earnings upgrades for oil companies.”  
 Indian stocks may draw more foreign funds in the second
half as the nation’s economic growth makes it one of “few
places” to invest,  Navneet Munot , who oversees about $8.2
billion of assets as chief investment officer in Mumbai at SBI
Funds Management Pvt., said in an interview June 24.  
 Overseas Funds  
 Overseas  funds  increased purchases of Indian equities by 32
percent to a net  $6.7 billion rupees  in the first half of 2010
from a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Inflows surged to a record 834.2 billion rupees in 2009,
exceeding the high set two years ago in local currency terms, as
the biggest advance in 18 years lured foreign funds. They sold a
record 529.9 billion rupees of shares in 2008, triggering a
record annual decline.  
 Reliance Industries Ltd. , owner of the world’s largest
refining complex, rose 2.1 percent to 1,089.85 rupees. The
company is close to reaching an agreement to form a financial-
services venture with DE Shaw & Co., the Economic Times said,
citing two people it didn’t identify.  Manoj Warrier , a spokesman
for the company, declined to comment when reached by phone today.  
 Separately, India plans to offer shale-gas areas for
exploration for the first time,  S.K. Srivastava , director
general of hydrocarbons, India’s exploration regulator, said in
an interview in New Delhi today.  
 State Control  
 Oil & Natural Gas  climbed 1.1 percent to 1,320.8 rupees,
taking gains in the past four days to 11 percent. India’s
government on June 25 freed gasoline prices from state control
and increased rates on diesel, kerosene and cooking gas.  Indian
Oil Corp. , the nation’s second-biggest refiner, added 2.5
percent to a record 403.1 rupees.  
 “Oil and gas companies are going to show robust growth,”
 Sadanand Shetty , who manages $75 million in equities at Taurus
Asset Management Co. in Mumbai, said in an interview yesterday.
“Price decontrol will really be a big kicker. The average
increase in earnings for oil companies would be in the range of
30 percent to 50 percent.”  
 Bharat Petroleum Corp.  climbed 4.3 percent to 662.75 rupees,
and  Hindustan Petroleum Corp.  jumped 7.7 percent to 469.5 rupees.  
 Investment Banking  
 Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. , owner of India’s largest
securities firm, advanced 3.7 percent to 770.95 rupees. Tokyo-
based Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. will pay 13.7 billion
rupees ($295 million) for a stake in Kotak Mahindra and said the
two companies will cooperate in investment banking.  
 The deal gives Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-largest bank
by market value, a toehold in a country where the value of stock
sales more than tripled in the first half from a year earlier.  
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the maker of half the cars sold
in India, rose 2.5 percent to 1,423.75 rupees, reversing two
days of losses, before its monthly sales results. “The
expectation is that the numbers will be quite good,” Prabhudas
Lilladher’s Jain said. Most Indian automakers will post June
sales tomorrow.  
 Tata Motors Ltd. , the biggest truckmaker and owner of
Jaguar Land Rover Ltd., added 1 percent to 778.5 rupees.
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. , the largest maker of sport-utility
vehicles and tractors, climbed 2.2 percent to 627.35.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        