-- Total May Limit Fuel Supplies After U.K. Refinery Blast That Killed Worker
-- Rachel Graham
-- 2010-06-30T16:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/total-may-limit-fuel-supplies-after-u-k-refinery-blast-that-killed-worker.html

          
          
             Total SA  may be forced to limit
supplies of fuel from its  Lindsey  facility to customers after a
fire and explosion yesterday killed a worker and closed at least
one processing unit.  
 Precautionary allocations have been put in place where
necessary, the company said in a statement. This means measures
will be taken to ensure that customers don’t take delivery of
more than they need.  
 The fire occurred yesterday in a crude distillation unit,
which processes crude oil into fuels such as diesel and
 gasoline . All delivery routes from the plant have been reopened
and there are currently no supply issues, the statement said.  
 Processing units affected by the incident have been shut
down. The U.K.’s workplace safety inspectorate hasn’t yet had
access to the site, which remains cordoned off by the police, a
spokeswoman for the inspectorate said by phone today.  
 Other units at the 210,000-barrel-a-day plant continue to
operate, the company said, without being more specific.  
 Total has said it plans to sell Lindsey, the U.K.’s fourth-
largest refinery, as it seeks to reduce its processing capacity.  
 One person was killed in yesterday’s fire and explosion.
Unite, the U.K.’s largest union, called for an immediate inquiry
into the death, asking why further searches weren’t made after
the person who died was unaccounted for in a roll-call when
employees were evacuated, according to a statement on the
union’s website.  
 Workers at Lindsey left the site today, concerned about
safety after yesterday’s accident, the  Grimsby Telegraph 
reported on its website, citing a mechanical fitter at the
plant. Total could not immediately confirm this information.
Union officials weren’t immediately available for comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        