-- Tour de France Drug Cheats Opt for Low Doses to Avoid Detection
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-06-30T22:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/tour-de-france-drug-cheats-opt-for-smaller-doses-to-avoid-test-detection.html

          
          
             Cyclists are transfusing less blood
and injecting smaller doses of stamina-building drugs to try to
get around more intensive doping tests, according to four
scientists who analyze exam results.  
 With the Tour de France, the sport’s premier event, ready
to start this weekend, scientists say cheating remains a major
problem in cycling.  
 Last year’s Tour was hailed as a breakthrough when one drug
case was detected, down from 11 in 2007 and 2008. Some riders
are using new methods rather than playing by the rules, said
Michael Ashenden, an anti-doping researcher on Australia’s Gold
Coast.  
 “I’m afraid things are as bad as they’ve ever been,”
Ashenden said. “I’m not saying they’re using the same degree of
doping. What I see is the incidence of riders trying to dope and
avoid detection isn’t very different to how it has been
throughout history.”  
 Ashenden; Michel Audran of  Montpellier University  in
France;  Robin Parisotto , a former  Australian Institute of Sport 
scientist; and Yorck Olaf Schumacher of  Freiburg University  in
Germany were interviewed by phone and e-mail. Schumacher said
they are among nine experts who get about “10 to 20” abnormal
readings a month from about 800 riders’ blood and urine samples.
Their review is done for the International Cycling Union, the
sport’s governing body, which goes by the French acronym UCI.  
 The new methods can improve a rider’s stamina by 2 percent,
compared with 8 percent for previous doping, and enough to have
a “large impact” on his ranking, Schumacher said. Over several
weeks, it can be just as effective in improving performance,
according to Ashenden.  
 Floyd Landis  
 Tour de France spokesman  Matthieu Desplats  declined to
comment.  
 Cyclists have long used transfusions and erythropoietin, or
EPO, to boost the number of oxygen-carrying red blood cells.
 Floyd Landis , stripped of his 2006 Tour win for doping, detailed
what he said was the subterfuge in e-mails in May that accused
seven-time champion and fellow American  Lance Armstrong  of
transfusing blood in 2003 and 2004. Armstrong, who has said this
will be his last Tour, rejected the claims.  
 Riders used to employ a cocktail of drugs, including
repeated doses of EPO, during winter training, said  Jesus Manzano , who raced in the Tour in 2003 and confessed to doping
the next year. Such abuse is no longer possible because of a
database of riders’ urine and blood readings started in 2008,
Schumacher said. By examining a rider’s  “biological passport,” 
scientists can spot abnormal swings that point to wrongdoing.  
 Encrypted Tests  
 They say they can also detect when riders have transfused
their own blood, an infraction for which there is no doping test
in place. The level of hemoglobin, the iron-containing
respiratory pigment in red blood cells, drops when blood is
extracted and the number of immature blood cells, or
reticulocytes, rises when it’s re-infused.  
 The scientists employed by the  UCI  are sent an encrypted e-
mail with details of abnormal readings, without being told which
riders they come from, Ashenden said. They send their opinion
back on whether the swings can be explained by biological
reasons, he added.  
 Since 2008, eight riders have been punished or face
disciplinary proceedings because of irregular readings, while
others have had “unusual” changes in blood and urine that
weren’t extreme enough to press doping charges, Ashenden said.  
 “You can escape,” Audran said in an e-mail. “Cheats
adapt quickly to doping detection methods.”  
 Dopers can mask a decline in hemoglobin by injecting a
small quantity of EPO, which would disperse into the bloodstream
within hours and minimize the risk of testing positive,
Parisotto said. Landis told  ESPN.com  in May that there was
“virtually no chance” of getting caught a few hours later if
the EPO is injected intravenously.  
 Armstrong Accused  
 In a May 1 e-mail seen by Bloomberg News, Landis wrote that
he saw Armstrong have transfusions on the 2003 Tour and on his
team’s bus in 2004. The statement sent to USA Cycling Chief
Executive Steve Johnson is among several sent by Landis that are
being investigated by the  U.S. Anti-Doping Agency . Armstrong,
38, said May 20 he has “nothing to hide,” adding that Landis
“lost his credibility a long time ago.”  
 Landis, 34, spent more than $1 million on his legal defense
after testing positive in winning the 2006 Tour for synthetic
testosterone, which can help overcome muscle fatigue. He
disclosed years of doping in the e-mails released two months
ago. Landis, who is among six top-three Tour finishers who were
caught or confessed since 1996, didn’t return an e-mail seeking
comment.  
 As cycling battles a “deep culture of cheating,” at least
the scale is declining, Schumacher said.  
 ‘Right Direction’  
 “You will never catch all the cheats for sure but the door
is narrowing,” he said. “It’s becoming more and more difficult
to squeeze through.”  
 Pat McQuaid , president of the Aigle, Switzerland-based UCI,
said in an interview that cycling is “going in the right
direction.” He said he would concur with whatever the
scientists say but couldn’t comment in detail because he lacks
scientific expertise.  
 Before 2008, cheats would have been able to keep within
doping rules with a standard check-up at a family doctor telling
them their hematocrit, the percentage of packed red blood cells,
Schumacher said. Riders with over 50 percent were suspended. Now
some may turn to a medical expert, possibly a hematologist, for
help because the biological passport is more sophisticated,
Parisotto said.  
 “Sometimes you shake your head and think: What else are
they going to do?” Parisotto said from Canberra, Australia. “I
still believe there are pure, clean sporting performances out
there but there is still a long way to go.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Floyd Landis who was stripped of his 2006 Tour win for doping. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
