-- House Approves New Rules for Wall Street in 237-192 Vote
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-30T23:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/house-debates-bank-bill-as-senate-delays-vote-until-after-july-4th-holiday.html

          
          
             The U.S. House of Representatives
approved the financial-overhaul bill, moving a step closer to
enacting the broadest rewrite of Wall Street rules since the
Great Depression.  
 The House voted 237-192 in favor of the bill. It also will
have to be approved by the Senate, which delayed action until
after the weeklong July 4 recess, before going to President
 Barack Obama  for him to sign into law.  
 As debate began today, House Financial Services Committee
Chairman  Barney Frank  discounted Republican criticism that the
bill gives regulators new powers to keep insolvent firms alive.  
 “If an institution has gotten so indebted that it should
not be able to pay its debts, we step in and put it out of
business,” Frank said.  
 The legislation, which adopts proposals put forward by the
White House last year, would create a consumer financial
protection bureau at the Federal Reserve, give the government
new authority to liquidate large failing financial firms and set
up a council of regulators to monitor threats to the economy.
It’s a response to the 2008 crisis that led Congress to set up a
$700 billion rescue program to extend aid to large firms
including  American International Group Inc.  and  Citigroup Inc.   
 President  Barack Obama  called the vote “a victory for
every American who has been affected by the recklessness and
irresponsibility that led to the loss of millions of jobs and
trillions in wealth.” In a statement, Obama said he looks
forward to signing a bill after Senate passage.  
 Government Intrusion  
 “This bill is a massive intrusion of federal government
into the lives of every American,” Alabama Representative
 Spencer Bachus , the top Republican on the House Financial
Services Committee, said before the final vote. “It will move
us further toward a managed economy with the federal government
making decisions that have been and should stay in the hands of
individuals and private businesses.”  
 The House rejected a motion offered by Republicans to send
the bill back to the conference committee, a procedural effort
to essentially kill the legislation. The motion was meant “to
ensure a robust and comprehensive audit of the Federal Reserve
and to address a small but significant job-killing measure,”
Republicans said in a news release.  
 The Senate’s final vote will be delayed until the middle of
July because of the death of Senator  Robert Byrd , a West
Virginia Democrat. Byrd’s body will lie in repose in the Senate
chamber tomorrow and a memorial service will be held in
Charleston, West Virginia, on July 2.  
 Not Enough Time  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
today that under the chamber’s rules there isn’t enough time to
schedule a vote before lawmakers leave for the July 4 recess.
“I can’t procedurally get to it,” Reid said.  
 Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd  said a
vote this week would be trying to “squeeze too much in” to
senators’ schedules. A weekend session after Byrd’s memorial
service in West Virginia might risk losing some votes if
senators felt pushed to return to Washington, he said.  
 “I am trying to be very patient,” said Dodd, who
acknowledged his disappointment that Congress won’t be enacting
the legislation this week. When Congress returns from the
weeklong recess “I am still very optimistic we will have the
necessary votes to pass it,” he told reporters.  
 Sixty votes are needed in the Senate to move the bill
toward final passage. Democrats need to retain votes from at
least two of the four Republican senators who voted for the bill
last month:  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts,  Charles Grassley  of
Iowa, and Olympia Snowe and  Susan Collins  of Maine. Democrats
could also secure support from Byrd’s replacement and from
Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat who previously
voted against the bill.  
 Bank Fee  
 Negotiators reopened talks yesterday to eliminate a $19
billion fee on large banks and hedge funds to pay for the bill,
a proposal that raised concerns from Brown, Collins and Snowe.
The conference committee eliminated the fee and adopted a new
financing plan that would end the Troubled Asset Relief Program
and increase the level of funds the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. is required by law to hold in reserves to insure bank
customer deposits. The banking industry pays fees to the FDIC to
support the fund.  
 “I appreciate the conference committee revisiting the Wall
Street reform bill and removing the $19 billion bank tax,”
Brown said today in a statement. “Over the July recess, I will
continue to review this important bill.”  
 Collins said today she’s “inclined to support” the bill.  
 “This is not the bill that I would have written had I been
able to craft it myself, but it’s a balancing test as I decide
whether it warrants my support,” Collins told reporters today.
“And based on my initial review, I believe that it does.”  
 Cantwell told reporters today she’s waiting to read the
bill language.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representatives Barney Frank and Paul Kanjorski converse during a House-Senate financial overhaul conference in Washington, D.C. on June 29, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks and the nation's economy.
     Saut, speaking from St. Petersburg, Florida, also discusses U.S. House of Representatives' approval of the financial-overhaul bill and its implications for the banking industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker is reportedly disappointed with the final version of the rule that bears his name. Volcker didn’t expect his proposal to ban banks from running private-equity and hedge funds to be diluted so much, said a person with knowledge of his views. Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan reports.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bert Ely, chief executive officer of bank consulting firm Ely & Co., and Bloomberg contributing editor William Cohan, talk about legislation to overhaul U.S. financial regulation. 
     They speak with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
