-- House Democrats Announce Plan to Aid States in War-Funding Bill
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-06-30T20:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/house-democrats-propose-10-billion-in-war-bill-to-prevent-teacher-layoffs.html

          
          
             House Democrats today proposed
adding $10 billion to a pending war-funding bill to prevent
layoffs of an estimated 140,000 school teachers as part of an
effort to revive a stalled jobs agenda.  
 Under pressure to ensure the new plan doesn’t add to the
federal budget  deficit , lawmakers would partially finance the
spending by clamping down on so-called pay-to-delay payments.
Such payments are made by brand-name drug companies to generics
makers to postpone bringing generic products to market. That
would save the government an estimated $2.4 billion by reducing
the cost of drugs purchased through the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, according to the Congressional Budget Office.  
 Democrats have also scheduled separate votes this week to
try to pass legislation repeatedly blocked by Republicans that
would extend  unemployment  benefits through November. The action
comes as lawmakers prepare to leave for a weeklong July 4
recess.  
 “We have a fundamental obligation to stand with these
families so that they can make ends meet,” said Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.  
 Republican Objections  
 Senate Republicans last week blocked a more sweeping jobs
initiative that included the aid for the jobless, saying it
would add too much to the deficit. House Democrats yesterday
unsuccessfully tried to approve the extended unemployment
benefits using expedited procedures requiring a two-thirds vote
for approval. The Democrats will try again later today to pass
the bill under rules requiring a simple majority for passage.  
 Senate Democrats, in a bid for votes, have married the
extension of jobless aid to a bill backed by Republicans that
would extend until Sept. 30, rather than June 30, the deadline
for closing home purchases under the government’s homebuyer tax
credit program.  
 Reid said today that though he has picked up support from
two Republicans for the measure, the June 28 death of  Robert Byrd , a  West Virginia Democrat, means he remains one vote
short of the 60 votes needed for passage. Senator  Ben Nelson , a
Nebraska Democrat, said today he opposes the bill because it
would add to the deficit. The Senate vote is scheduled for
tomorrow.  
 War-Funding Bill  
 The House this week is aiming to take up the $60 billion
war-funding measure approved last month by the Senate. House
action has been delayed as Democrats debated whether to add
unrelated provisions to the legislation.  
 Along with adding the money for state governments, the
plan announced today would provide $5 billion in additional
funding for Pell college tuition grants and $700 million for
border security. It would provide another $142 million in aid
to fishermen and others affected by the oil spill in the Gulf
of Mexico, on top of the $162 million already contained in the
Senate-passed measure.  
 Those costs would be defrayed with $16 billion in savings
carved out of the Pentagon’s budget, rescinded stimulus
projects and the pay-to-delay provisions, among other items.  
 House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman  Henry Waxman ,
a California Democrat, said the pay-to-delay provisions were
needed because of “many instances of collusion between the
brand-name drug manufacturers and the generic manufacturers to
keep a lower-priced generic off the market in exchange for
being paid to do that. It may serve their mutual interests, but
it’s not in the interest of the American consumer who ought to
have the benefit of competition and lower prices.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        