-- Lloyds Banking Group Says It Plans to Cut 1,850 Jobs Following HBOS Merger
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-06-30T13:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/lloyds-banking-group-says-it-plans-to-cut-1-850-jobs-following-hbos-merger.html

          
          
             Lloyds Banking Group Plc , the U.K.’s
biggest mortgage lender, is cutting about 1,850 jobs in its
retail, insurance and administrative units as a result of
divisional mergers following the takeover of HBOS Plc.  
 Once contractors, temporary workers, redeployments and
relocations of staff are taken into account, there will be a net
loss of 650 full-time jobs, the London-based bank said today in
a statement.  
 “For the staff at Lloyds, today marks the start of another
long summer of worry as they now face uncertainty about the
security of their job,” Cath Speight, national officer of the
Unite trade union, said in a separate statement. Lloyds has
announced more than 17,700 job cuts since its takeover of  HBOS 
in January 2009, according to the  Unite  union, which represents
some bank staff.  
 The bank plans to reduce costs by 2 billion pounds ($3
billion) annually over the next two years as a result of the
HBOS takeover. Losses at HBOS led Lloyds bank to cede a 41
percent stake to the government.  
 The cuts will affect staff in Nottingham and Chester, while
some of the roles will be relocated to Warrington and Speke, the
bank said.  
 Lloyds also said it will close 265 Halifax independent
agencies, which provide some banking services. The agencies will
close in November.  
 “The number of independent agencies has declined
significantly in recent years,” David Nicholson, Managing
Director, of Halifax Community Bank, said in the Lloyds
statement. “Following the completion of a strategic review, we
have now taken the difficult decision that the agencies are no
longer integral to our business model.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        