-- Pegasus of Turkey Hires Legal Adviser For IPO, Chairman Ali Sabanci Says
-- Ercan Ersoy
-- 2010-06-30T16:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/pegasus-of-turkey-hires-legal-adviser-for-ipo-chairman-ali-sabanci-says.html

          
          
             Pegasus Havayollar? AS, the Turkish
budget carrier known as Pegasus Airlines, hired a legal adviser
for an initial public offering planned for as early as this
year, Chairman  Ali Sabanci  said.  
 “We expect to hold the IPO in the fourth quarter or in the
first quarter of 2011,” Sabanci said in an interview in
Istanbul today to mark the delivery of two Boeing Co. 737-800
planes to the fleet. “If nothing goes wrong in the global
investment climate we will do it in November.”  
 Turkish carriers added routes to neighboring countries and
boosted capacity on domestic flights to attract more customers
and boost earnings even as airlines elsewhere lost business in
the global slump. The  economy  grew 11.7 percent in the first
quarter, lagging behind only China among the Group of 20
nations.  
 Pegasus will carry about 8.3 million passengers this year,
continuing a 40 percent growth trend over the past five years
that’s double the industry average of 20 percent, Sabanci said.
Sales will increase as much as 13 percent to more than 500
million euros ($614 million), he said.  
 Cooperation will increase “very soon,” between Pegasus
and  Air Berlin Plc , Germany’s second-largest carrier, in which
Pegasus’ parent Esas Holding AS owns 16.8 percent, Sabanci said.  
 “We will have more active code-sharing with Air Berlin and
we will announce it this year.” Sabanci said. Esas will not
adjust its stake in the German carrier, he said.  
 Fleet Growth  
 Pegasus will own a minimum of 41 aircraft and operate a
total of about 60 by 2015, including leased jets, Sabanci said.
The company now has a total of 31 aircraft, and owns 14. It
agreed with  Boeing  last year to buy and lease a total of 40
aircraft by 2015 for a total price of $3.2 billion, he said.  
 Pegasus is financing up to 85 percent of the aircraft
bought with loans over 10 to 12 years from banks including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  ING Groep NV . The loans are guaranteed
by the U.S. Export-Import Bank, Sabanci said.  
 The company has bought a stake of $50 million in
California-based Air Lease Corp., Sabanci said. Air Lease Corp.
has capital of $1 billion, he said.  
 Pegasus hired Credit Suisse and Is Investment & Securities
to advise on the IPO.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        