-- Ping An Insurance to Merge Its Banking Unit With Shenzhen Development Bank
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-30T02:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/ping-an-insurance-in-talks-to-merge-banking-unit-with-shenzhen-development.html

          
          
             Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. ,
China’s second-largest insurer, is in talks to merge its banking
unit with  Shenzhen Development Bank Co.  to get around Chinese
rules barring insurers from controlling more than one lender.  
 Ping An Bank Co. and Shenzhen Development Bank, both based
in the southern city of Shenzhen, are working on an
“unprecedented major restructuring,” according to
 announcements  from the companies late yesterday. Shares of Ping
An Insurance and Shenzhen Development Bank were suspended today.  
 Combining Ping An Bank and Shenzhen Development Bank would
give  Ping An Insurance  control of a lender with 809 billion yuan
($119 billion) of total assets and help it avoid falling foul of
regulations barring insurers from exerting power over two banks.
Ping An Insurance is buying a 29.99 percent stake in Shenzhen
Development Bank.  
 “You don’t want to pitch your own units against each
other,” said  Luo Yi , a Shenzhen-based analyst at China
Merchants Securities Co. who has a “strong buy” rating on the
insurer’s stock. “The merger would extend Ping An’s reach in
the banking market and broaden its customer base.”  
 Ping An Insurance last month bought 520.4 million shares in
Shenzhen Development Bank from Newbridge Capital LLC for about
11.45 billion yuan, making it the lender’s largest shareholder.
The insurer this week won approval to buy as many as 379.58
million new shares in Shenzhen Development Bank in a private
placement valued at 6.93 billion yuan.  
 Shenzhen Development Bank last month appointed  Richard Jackson , former head of Ping An Bank, as its president.  
 The deal may extend Ping An Chairman Peter Ma’s push to
build a one-stop financial supermarket deriving two-thirds of
revenue from non-insurance products in about 10 years. Ping An
Insurance, part owned by  HSBC Holdings Plc,  shifted its focus to
the domestic market after losing $3.3 billion on an investment
in Fortis, formerly Belgium’s biggest financial-services company,
in 2008.  
 Shenzhen Development Bank  fell 5.3 percent yesterday to
close at 17.51 yuan, taking this year’s decline to 28 percent.
Ping An Insurance slipped 1.5 percent to 46.81 yuan yesterday,
for a 15 percent drop in Shanghai this year.  
 -- Luo Jun ,  Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Andreea Papuc ,  Philip Lagerkranser   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        