-- Ping An Insurance in Talks to Merge Banking Unit With Shenzhen Development
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-30T06:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/ping-an-insurance-to-merge-its-banking-unit-with-shenzhen-development-bank.html

          
          
             Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. ,
China’s second-largest insurer, is in talks to merge its banking
unit with  Shenzhen Development Bank Co.  to get around Chinese
rules barring insurers from controlling more than one lender.  
 Ping An Bank Co. and Shenzhen Development Bank, both based
in the southern city of Shenzhen, are working on an
“unprecedented major restructuring,” according to
 announcements  from the companies late yesterday. Shares of Ping
An Insurance and Shenzhen Development Bank were suspended today.  
 Combining Ping An Bank and Shenzhen Development Bank would
give  Ping An Insurance  control of a lender with 809 billion yuan
($119 billion) of total assets and help it avoid falling foul of
regulations barring insurers from exerting power over two banks.
Ping An Insurance is already in the process of buying a 29.99
percent stake in Shenzhen Development Bank, which was the
nation’s first foreign-controlled lender.  
 “You don’t want to pitch your own units against each
other,” said  Luo Yi , a Shenzhen-based analyst at China
Merchants Securities Co. who has a “strong buy” rating on the
insurer’s stock. “The merger would extend Ping An’s reach in
the banking market and broaden its customer base.”  
 Ping An Insurance currently  serves  51 million retail
customers and 2 million corporate clients nationwide, according
to its website. Shenzhen Development Bank’s network of over 300
outlets will allow the insurer to better serve its customers
whose average age is below 40 and whose assets will grow in the
coming two decades, Ping An President  Louis Cheung  said a year
ago when agreeing to buy a stake in the Chinese bank from
Newbridge Capital LLC.  
 Buying Stake  
 Shenzhen Development Bank , the smallest among the nation’s
11 publicly traded national banks, fell 5.3 percent yesterday to
close at 17.51 yuan, taking this year’s decline to 28 percent.
Ping An Insurance slipped 1.5 percent to 46.81 yuan yesterday,
for a 15 percent drop in Shanghai this year.  
 Ping An Insurance  last month completed buying 520.4 million
shares in Shenzhen Development Bank from Newbridge for about
11.45 billion yuan, making it the lender’s largest shareholder.
The insurer this week won approval to buy as many as 379.58
million new shares in Shenzhen Development Bank in a private
placement valued at 6.93 billion yuan.  
 Ping An Insurance will inject its banking unit into
Shenzhen Development Bank, which in return will issue 1.5
billion new shares to the insurer, Caixin Online reported today
without saying where it obtained the information. The insurer
will own 51 percent of Shenzhen Development Bank after the
transaction, which is still pending shareholder and regulatory
approvals, the report said.  
 ‘Difficult’  
 The insurer may “find it difficult” to sell the banking
unit to Shenzhen Development Bank for more than the industry
average of 1.5 times book value given weak market sentiment,
according to  Olive Xia , a Shanghai-based analyst at Core Pacific
Yamaichi. That average price would value Ping An Bank at about
21.5 billion yuan, given its 14.3 billion yuan in net assets as
of Dec. 31.  
 Shenzhen Development Bank last month appointed  Richard Jackson , former head of Ping An Bank, as its president. Any
insurance group, “in principle,” shouldn’t control more than
one financial company that operates the same type of core
business, according to a China Insurance Regulatory Commission
regulation issued in March.  
 The deal may extend Ping An Chairman  Peter Ma ’s push to
build a one-stop financial supermarket deriving two-thirds of
revenue from non-insurance products in about 10 years. The
insurer obtained 14.5 percent of last year’s non-life premium
income from cross-selling within the group, while 57 percent of
Ping An Bank’s new credit cards were issued to non-banking
clients, according to its 2009 annual report.  
 Ping An Insurance, part owned by  HSBC Holdings Plc,  shifted
its focus to the domestic market after losing $3.3 billion on an
investment in Fortis, formerly Belgium’s biggest financial-
services company, in 2008.  
 -- Luo Jun ,  Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Andreea Papuc ,  Philip Lagerkranser   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Peter Ma, chairman and chief executive officer of Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., speaking in Hong Kong in April. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
