-- Pink Rocks Hyde Park; Money Honey; Warplane Art: London Weekend
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-06-30T23:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/pink-jay-z-rock-the-park-warplane-art-money-honey-great-london-weekend.html

          
          
             U.S. stars  Pink  and  Jay-Z  top the
bill at the three-day  Wireless Festival  in Hyde Park.  
 “Get the Party Started” will be the apt opener from
platinum-haired Pink on Friday night. She will race though her
hits including “So What.” Other acts at the eclectic festival
include  Lily Allen  and LCD Soundsystem.  
 Information:  http://www.wirelessfestival.co.uk/home .  
 Bar Trattoria Semplice is a good place for a quick bite
before the concert. This offshoot of the Michelin-starred
Ristorante Semplice serves fine Italian ingredients prepared
without fuss. Information:  http://www.bartrattoriasemplice.com 
or +44-20-7491-8638.  
 Saturday  
 Watch bees make honey at the heart of London’s moneymaking
district.  
 The Honey House -- in the Festival Gardens beside  St.
Paul’s  Cathedral -- showcases one of eight beehives put up in
the City as part of the annual  City of London Festival . You can
taste their sweet output on set days during the festival.  
 If your interest is money, not honey, there’s an open day
at the  Bank of England  Saturday, with tours of areas you would
not normally be allowed into.  
 The festival’s mainstay, of course, is classical music.
Hear plenty of it for free or for a fee, and flaunt your own
skills at one of the street pianos scattered around the City.  
 The festival ends July 9. Information:  http://www.colf.org 
or call +44-845-120-7502.  
 Saturday Night  
 A hard-drinking writer has an affair with a younger woman
as the world sinks into economic depression.  
 Welcome to 1920s London and to Terence Rattigan’s “After
the Dance,” currently at the  National Theatre  in a staging by
Thea Sharrock. Set in Mayfair, it shows David (Benedict
Cumberbatch) leaving his wife Joan (Nancy Carroll) during the
countdown to the Crash of 1929.  
 Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or call +44-
20-7452-3000.  
 If you prefer cheerier fare, Saturday is the last chance to
see the Spanish guitarist Paco Pena at  Sadler’s Wells , with
guest star Angel Munoz, one of Spain’s greatest male dancers.  
 Information:  http://www.sadlerswells.com  or call +44-844-
412-4300.  
 Sunday  
 A fighter jet hangs by its tail in  Tate Britain’s  pillared
central hall.  
 Another lies belly up on the floor, its fuselage stripped
of paint and given a mirror-like shine.  
 Once they were warplanes. Now they are artworks, thanks to
Fiona Banner, 44, and the strange stars of her show, “Harrier
and Jaguar.” Harrier is adorned with painted feathers, but
Jaguar had a more illustrious past, serving in the 1991 Allied
campaign to chase Iraq out of Kuwait.  
 Banner is the latest artist commissioned to produce
something for Tate Britain’s grand lobby. It’s a provocative
work. The killing machines may indeed be turned into pleasant
objects, but you leave wondering about their past lives. The
series is sponsored by  Sotheby’s  in a three-year deal that is up
for renewal.  
 Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  
 ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jay-Z performs at the Alexandra Palace in London, on Nov. 4, 2009. Photographer: Christie Goodwin/Redferns  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "After the Dance''  
                       
                         
                           Johan Persson/National Theatre via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Actors Nancy Carroll and Benedict Cumberbatch in the Thea Sharrock production of "After the Dance'' at the National Theatre in London. David and Joan Scott-Fowler are wealthy socialites who face a crisis in their marriage, in Rattigan's 1939 drama. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Actors Nancy Carroll and Benedict Cumberbatch in the Thea Sharrock production of "After the Dance'' at the National Theatre in London. David and Joan Scott-Fowler are wealthy socialites who face a crisis in their marriage, in Rattigan's 1939 drama. Photographer: Johan Persson/National Theatre via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Harrier and Jaguar"  
                       
                         
                           Tate via Bloomberg 
                         
                         An installation "Harrier and Jaguar" by artist Fiona Banner. The work is on show at Tate Britain through January. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An installation "Harrier and Jaguar" by artist Fiona Banner. The work is on show at Tate Britain through January. Source: Tate via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Harrier and Jaguar"  
                       
                         
                           Tate via Bloomberg 
                         
                         An installation "Harrier and Jaguar" by artist Fiona Banner. The work is on show at Tate Britain through January. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An installation "Harrier and Jaguar" by artist Fiona Banner. The work is on show at Tate Britain through January. Source: Tate via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A beekeeper examines one of eight beehives. The hives are set up in London's City financial district as part of the annual City of London Festival of arts and music running through July 9. Source: Martha Oakes PR via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An undated handout photo, provided to the media on Wednesday, Nov. 5, 2008 shows the singer Pink. Source: Andrew Macpherson/Zomba Lbael Group/Sony BMG via Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lily Allen, a U.K. singer-songwriter, poses in a photo to mark the release of her second studio album. Photographer: Simon Emmet/Murray Chalmers PR via Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Bar Trattoria Semplice.  Semplice, near Bond Street, is convenient for a quick bite before a trip to Hyde Park. The Italian eatery serves simple and inexpensive Italian fare. Photo: Network Source: Network London via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Nancy Carroll, left, and Faye Castelow in the Thea Sharrock production of "After the Dance'' at the National Theatre in London. Castelow plays Helen, a clever and priggish young woman who turns the lives of her friends upside down. Photographer: Johan Persson/National Theatre via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
