-- Pirelli Will Sell Broadband-Communications Unit This Year, Chairman Says
-- Sara Gay Forden
-- 2010-07-01T08:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/pirelli-will-sell-broadband-communications-unit-this-year-chairman-says.html

          
          
             Pirelli & C. SpA , Europe’s third-
largest tiremaker, will sell its broadband communications unit
as part of a reorganization that includes a spinoff of real-
estate assets, Chairman  Marco Tronchetti Provera  said.  
 Pirelli is examining at least five offers for the maker of
set-top boxes and network adaptors, Tronchetti Provera said in
an interview. The  sale , targeted for this year, will complement
a spinoff of  Pirelli & C. Real Estate SpA  that would result in
two companies directly held by  Camfin SpA , Pirelli’s largest
shareholder, he said.  
 Milan-based Pirelli is spending 300 million euros ($367
million) on its tire business this year and plans to double
capacity in China, Egypt and Romania to take on rivals
 Continental AG  and Michelin & Cie. Tronchetti Provera said he’s
looking to acquire tire factories in Asia, though ruled out a
merger with a competitor.  
 “We are building a new Pirelli,” Tronchetti Provera, 62,
said in the interview at his Milan headquarters yesterday. “My
dream is to make Pirelli stronger and stronger, a technological
leader that is taking on a world that is growing faster and
faster.”  
 Pirelli Broadband Solutions reported 2009 sales of 132
million euros, according to Pirelli’s annual report. Tronchetti
Provera declined to identify potential buyers. Pirelli sold its
remaining shares in  Telecom Italia SpA , Italy’s largest phone
company, in the third quarter of 2009.  
 Share Performance  
 “The sale of the broadband unit fits into the strategy to
concentrate on the tire business as the only internal industrial
operation,” said  Oriana Cardani , an analyst at Centrobanca SpA
in Milan with a “buy” rating on Pirelli.  
 Pirelli is the  best performer  on Italy’s benchmark index in
the past 12 months, rising 78 percent as the FTSE MIB Index fell
2.3 percent. The shares declined 1.7 percent to 45 cents in
Milan today, valuing the company at 2.4 billion euros.  
 The tiremaker will likely raise prices once more in Europe
before the end of this year, following an increase in April, to
compensate for higher costs of materials including rubber,
Tronchetti Provera said.  
 Pirelli was named last week the official tire supplier for
the  FIA Formula One World Championship  for three years.
Tronchetti Provera said the deal to supply all 12 F1 teams with
tires will give a boost to its premium-tire business, such as
sales to BMWs and Ferraris.  
 Rinascente, Bulgari  
 Pirelli & C. Real Estate  has 16.4 billion euros in assets
under management, with most of the properties in Italy and
Germany, according to the company. Assets include buildings that
house the Rinascente department store in Milan’s Piazza Duomo as
well as the Via del Tritone building in Rome that houses jeweler
Bulgari SpA.  
 The spinoff will create two companies, one focused on tires
and the other on real estate, Tronchetti Provera said. Camfin,
which is controlled by Tronchetti Provera, will directly hold
stakes in each as a result of the transaction.  
 “We are committed to real estate and we want to unlock the
hidden value,” he said. “The company has gone through a very
tough restructuring, the results of which we think will already
be visible next year.”  
 Tronchetti Provera confirmed a  forecast  for Pirelli to lift
sales more than 10 percent this year. Pirelli on May 4 raised
its 2010 revenue target to as much as 5 billion euros, from a
previous projection for as much as 4.8 billion euros. The
tiremaker said at the time it expects earnings before interest
and taxes to be at least 6.5 percent of sales this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sara Forden  in Milan at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        