-- Poland Planning to Reduce Bond Sales in Third Quarter After Record Supply
-- David McQuaid
-- 2010-06-30T15:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/poland-planning-to-reduce-bond-sales-in-third-quarter-after-record-supply.html

          
          
             Poland will reduce sales of domestic
bonds in the third quarter after record issuance in the first
half of the year as concern that Europe’s fiscal situation is
worsening drives yields higher.  
 The country plans to offer between 15 billion zloty ($4.45
billion) and 26 billion zloty of two-year, five-year and longer-
dated notes, the Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.
The amount will be lower than the record 32.3 billion zloty of
bonds the country sold in the second quarter and the 27.6
billion zloty in the first quarter.  
 Polish five-year yields have climbed 32 basis points to
5.46 percent this quarter, the highest level since the first
three months of 2009, according to an  index  of bonds compiled by
Bloomberg. Hungary roiled world markets this month after local
politicians compared the country’s finances to those of Greece.
Romania’s leu dropped to a record low this week on concern the
country will struggle to meet the budget deficit goal needed to
receive installments of its international bailout loan.  
 “We need to give markets a breather and reduce the debt
supply, especially of longer maturities,”  Piotr Marczak , the
head of the Finance Ministry’s public debt department in Warsaw,
said in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.
“That’s why we decided not to hold auctions of long-dated paper
for the next two months while limiting Treasury bill auctions in
July.”  
 Poland has met 59 percent of the annual borrowing needs set
out in the 2010 budget bill, Marczak said. The amount may be as
high as 65 percent if the ministry’s forecast that this year’s
budget deficit will be lower than planned proves accurate, he
said.  
 ‘Bond Positive’  
 “The Polish Finance Ministry front-loaded the issuance to
avoid a thin market during summer holidays,”  Esther Law ,
emerging-market strategist at Societe Generale SA, said by phone
from London today. “The lower issuance in the third quarter is
bond-positive.”  
 Bonds gained, with the yield on the two-year note declining
two basis points to 4.86 percent at 4:45 p.m. in Warsaw. The
yield on the five-year bond dropped eight basis points to 5.41
percent, while the yield on the note due October 2020 fell five
basis points to 5.95 percent.  
 Foreign holdings of domestic bonds and bills rose by 4.3
billion zloty in May after reaching record 98.7 billion zloty a
month earlier, Marczak said. International investors now own 103
billion zloty in government securities, he said.  
 Sale Plan  
 The quarterly plan includes sales of 9 billion to 14
billion zloty of two-year bonds on July 7, August 4 and Sept. 1.
It will also offer from 5 billion to 9 billion zloty of five-
year bonds at three auctions next quarter. The only auction of
longer-dated paper will be on Sept. 15, when the ministry said
it may offer 10-year, 11-year, 20-year or inflation-linked
bonds.  
 Poland will also offer from 9 billion zloty to 13 billion
zloty of 52-week Treasury bills at 10 to 12 auctions during the
third quarter, according to the statement. Buy-back auctions of
bills will be held in July and possibly in August, the ministry
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        