-- Poland May Leave Main Rate Unchanged for 12th Month as Inflation Subdued
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-06-30T06:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/poland-may-leave-main-rate-unchanged-for-12th-month-as-inflation-subdued.html

          
          
             Poland’s central bank, which holds
its first meeting under new Governor  Marek Belka  today, will
probably leave the benchmark interest rate at a record low for a
12th month as inflation pressures remain subdued.  
 The Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski will hold the seven-
day reference rate at 3.5 percent, according to all 17
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . The decision will be announced
about noon and the central bank will hold a 3 p.m. press
conference to explain the decision, the central bank said in an
e-mail late yesterday.  
 A year of low borrowing costs following a combined 2.5
percentage-point reduction helped Poland’s economy, the largest
of the European Union’s eastern members, avoid recession in 2009
and accelerate this year. That may prompt a faster rebound in
 inflation  than the bank expected, said  Jaroslaw Janecki , chief
economist at Societe Generale in Warsaw.  
 “There is a broad market consensus over keeping the
current wait-and-see approach at least until September,”
Janecki said. “An upward revision in the new projection is very
likely, which may constitute a signal for monetary tightening in
the fourth quarter.”  
 The bank will publish the main targets for its updated
inflation and GDP outlook with the post-meeting statement. The
full projection will be released later this week. In the
previous outlook in February inflation was seen easing to 1.8
percent this year and accelerating to 2.4 percent in 2011.  
 Zloty Effect  
 A weaker zloty is a further reason to expect faster
inflation, policy makers said in the minutes of their last
meeting last month. The zloty has lost almost 8 percent since
April 9, when the bank bought foreign currency to bring down the
Polish currency from a 16-month high.  
 In May, inflation was below the central bank’s 2.5 percent
target for a second month at 2.2 percent, the slowest since
August 2007. Still, output rose an annual 14 percent in May, the
fastest pace in 25 months, retail sales increased 4.3 percent,
more than economists expected,  unemployment  declined and
salaries advanced.  
 Economic growth eased to 3 percent in the first quarter
from 3.3 percent in the last three months of 2009 and the
second-quarter pace may be slower because of damage caused by
floods in May and June. Spending on repairs to that damage may
bolster economic growth by 1 percentage point, with half the
money spent next year, according to  Mateusz Szczurek , chief
economist at ING Bank in Warsaw.  
 Szczurek forecasts second-half economic expansion of 3.1
percent to 3.3 percent, revising his full-year forecast to 3.1
percent from 2.7 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        