-- Poland Prepared to Receive at Least Two Final Offers for Power Utility PAK
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-06-30T07:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/poland-prepared-to-receive-at-least-two-final-offers-for-power-utility-pak.html

          
          
             Poland’s government will probably
get at least two final bids today for its stake in the ZE PAK SA
power producer and its coal suppliers as power engineering group
 Rafako SA  and utility Enea SA confirmed their interest.  
 Poland is selling 50 percent of PAK, which generates about
8.5 percent of the country’s electricity, and the brown coal
mines, to help reach its target to raise 25 billion zloty ($7.4
billion) from asset sales this year. In April it shortlisted
four companies, including  CEZ AS , the Czech Republic’s biggest
utility, and RPG Partners Ltd. of Cyprus, giving them until
today to complete due diligence and place final bids.  
 Rafako will place a binding bid, Chief Executive Officer
 Mariusz Rozacki  wrote in an e-mail to Bloomberg News today.
Maciej Owczarek, CEO of state-controlled  Enea , said last month
that Poland’s third-largest power group will also bid.
Spokespeople for CEZ and for Czech investor Zdenek Bakala’s RPG
declined to comment when reached by Bloomberg yesterday.  
 The Treasury Ministry hasn’t said how much it plans to get
from the sale. The final price may be lower than the roughly
$900 million that would reflect valuation ratios comparable to
those of top Polish utility  PGE SA , because bidders will also
pledge to set aside cash for investment.  
 PAK needs to upgrade its 2,512-megawatt generating
facilities, most of which are more than 30 years old. The coal
mines will need investment as current deposits run out.  
 The bidder will also have to talk to Elektrim SA, a company
in bankruptcy proceedings that owns 47 percent of PAK and has
the right to operational control. Zygmunt Solorz-Zak, the Polish
billionaire who owns Elektrim, agreed not to block the sale,
 Maciej Wewior , a spokesman for the ministry, said in February.  
 Five Utilities  
 Poland plans to get the proceeds from the PAK sale by the
end of November, Deputy Treasury Ministry  Jan Bury  said June 18.
The company is one of the five utilities in which the government
plans to sell stakes this year.  
 The ministry sold 52 percent of  Tauron Polska Energia SA ,
its second-biggest power company, in an initial public offering
this month and called for bids for Enea earlier this week. It’s
also seeking buyers for Energa SA, the fourth-largest utility,
and aims to sell 10 percent of PGE.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        