-- Pool Corp Fills in Cracks to Make Up for Lost Swimming Pool Construction
-- Alex Sherman
-- 2010-06-30T14:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/pool-corp-fills-in-cracks-to-make-up-for-lost-swimming-pool-construction.html

          
          
             Pool Corp.  is finding sales after a
record decline in new swimming pool construction by filling in
the cracks, literally.  
 Pool maintenance, repair and remodeling products will grow
“modestly” in 2010 and return to normal by 2015, Chief
Executive Officer  Manuel Perez de la Mesa  said in an interview.
Those goods now make up 70 percent of  sales , compared with 50
percent in 2005.  
 “We had to adjust to what the retail customer wanted,”
Perez de la Mesa said. “We had to come up with new products and
new marketing programs.”  
 Pool Corp. is focusing on the upkeep of older swimming
pools as the industry adjusts to  plummeting  U.S. home sales.
Residential pool construction is down nearly 80 percent since
2005, according to company estimates, and the amount of money
consumers spend on in-ground pool installation plunged 76
percent to $1.7 billion last year from $7.1 billion in 2005,
according to Duluth, Georgia-based research firm  P.K. Data .  
 The strategy has helped boost Covington, Louisiana-based
Pool Corp.’s stock 19 percent this year compared with a 6.6
percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index before today.
The  shares  lost 15 cents to $22.52 at 9:58 a.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  
 “These were once-in-a-lifetime headwinds against us,”
said Perez de la Mesa, 52. “Fortunately, our maintenance and
repair components were relatively stable.”  
 Drains, Pumps  
 Pool Corp. , the world’s largest wholesale distributor of
swimming-pool products, buys drains, caulks, pumps and chemicals
from manufacturers and sells them to independent specialty
stores, builders, maintenance companies and retailers through
about 290 sales centers in North America and Europe. About 90
percent of the company’s business is in the U.S.  
 The average age of a U.S. swimming pool is about 23 years,
according to P.K. Data. Vinyl and concrete pools need
significant maintenance every 10 to 12 years, including re-
plastering, replacing drains and filling cracks, making this
year a “sweet spot” for the second cycle, said  William Kennedy , CEO at P.K. Data.  
 Service and repairs for pools are either unchanged or
higher compared with last year, according to  Thomas L. Hayes  and
Daniel F. Garofalo, Minneapolis-based analysts at Piper Jaffray
Cos. who spoke with more than 30 pool-service companies,
according to a June 25 research note.  
 “We’ve probably hit the bottom of the downward slide,”
Hayes said in an interview. “Transforming the model to repair
and replace rather than focusing on new pools has been the
driving engine for Pool Corp.”  
 New Pools  
 Hayes raised his second-quarter earnings estimate for Pool
Corp. to $1.05 a share from $1.01 and has a “neutral” rating
on the shares. The average of 11 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg is $1.03.  
 Pool Corp. projects that construction will remain at levels
not seen since the early 1960s as  new home sales  remain
depressed.  Revenue  dropped 20 percent in two years, to $1.5
billion in 2009. The company forecasts the decline will end in
2010, and analysts estimate sales of $1.6 billion.  
 Even if home prices and sales recover,  Joan Storms , an
equity analyst at Los Angeles-based Wedbush Securities, isn’t
sure consumers will splurge on swimming.  
 “When they finally do get a loan, I think they’ll spend
that money on home improvement before they build a new pool,”
Storms said in an interview. “The company has done an excellent
job transitioning away from construction, but we’re going up
against three years of negatives.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Manuel Perez De La Mesa, chief executive officer of Pool Corp. Source: Pool Corp. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A pool remodeled using products from Pool Corp. Source: Pool Corp. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
