-- Portugal Uses Golden Share to Block Telefonica's Vivo Bid
-- Anabela Reis
-- 2010-06-30T16:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/portugal-uses-golden-share-to-block-telefonica-s-offer-for-vivo-venture.html

          
          
             The Portuguese government
unexpectedly used its veto power to block  Telefonica SA ’s 7.15
billion-euro ($8.72 billion) bid for  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA ’s
stake in Brazil’s largest mobile-phone company.  
 Telefonica’s sweetened offer for Portugal Telecom’s stake
in their 50-50 venture  Brasilcel NV , which owns 60 percent of
 Vivo Participacoes SA , had been accepted by 74 percent of the
investors present at a shareholders’ meeting today in Lisbon.
Portugal Telecom had said the Vivo bid was not a “golden
share” issue.  
 “This is an astonishing outcome,” said  Robin Bienenstock ,
an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in London. “It would now
appear that the management of Portugal Telecom is at odds with
the Portuguese government.”  
 With the action, Portugal Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  is
overruling investors for a Portuguese-owned asset he has
characterized as “strategic.” The move is also a setback in
Latin America’s largest economy for Telefonica Chairman  Cesar Alierta , who had wanted to combine Vivo’s mobile-phone network
with Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA, or Telesp, the Spanish
company’s fixed-line unit in Brazil.  
 The unprecedented use by the government of special powers
at Portugal Telecom to impede a transaction comes after last
week Socrates asked state-owned lender Caixa Geral de Depositos
SA, with 7.3 percent of the company, to reject the bid.  
 National Interests  
 “This offer did not account for the strategic interests
that Vivo represents for Portugal Telecom,” Socrates said today
in comments broadcast by television channel SIC Noticias. “The
golden share is there to be used when necessary. When the
government speaks, it is interpreting the country’s interests
and the national interests.”  
 On July 8, the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg is
scheduled to rule on Portugal’s veto powers at the country’s
largest phone company. Advocate General  Paolo Mengozzi 
recommended canceling the privileged rights in a  non-binding 
advisory  opinion  issued in December.  
 “Investors have been ignored,” said  Francisco Salvador ,
co-strategist at Iberian Equities in Madrid. “This will erode
confidence in Portuguese companies.”  
 Telefonica declined to comment on its plan of action
following the meeting.  
 Telefonica shares added less than 1 percent to 15.26 euros
in Madrid. Portugal Telecom shares tumbled 1.5 percent to 8.18
euros in Lisbon.  
 Raised Bid  
 Telefonica and Portugal Telecom have sought growth in
Brazil as markets at home cooled. Vivo had 30 percent of
Brazil’s 179 million wireless subscriptions at the end of March,
according to Anatel, the country’s phone regulator. Brazil is
growing at the fastest pace in more than two decades even as
European demand slows.  
 Telefonica increased its bid for a second time today from
the 6.5 billion euros it had offered on June 1, after its
initial offer of 5.7 billion euros was unanimously rejected by
Portugal Telecom’s board. The latest bid valued Vivo at 11 times
enterprise value to  earnings  before taxes, interest,
depreciation and amortization, double the 5.72 average for the
Brazilian company’s peers, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Portugal Telecom’s  board  had said the second bid of 6.5
billion euros did “not reflect the strategic value of this
asset for Telefonica.”  
 Fixing Brazil  
 Portugal Telecom has relied on Brazil for growth, with
sales from the Latin American country rising 27 percent in the
first quarter, while revenue at home fell 3.6 percent. Since
2006, Vivo has overtaken the fixed-line unit as the company’s
 biggest revenue contributor , accounting for half of sales in the
first quarter.  
 Portugal Telecom this month said it can provide “no
assurance” that “similar value will be delivered to
shareholders for Vivo” should the bid fail. In regulatory
filings it said the stake sale was not a golden-share issue.  
 For Telefonica, which faces rivals Vivendi SA and America
Movil, controlled by Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim , seeing the
deal through was critical to bolster its Brazilian unit Telesp,
whose first-quarter sales fell 1.4 percent in local-currency
terms. Telefonica estimated that the Vivo-Telesp combination can
generate 2.8 billion euros in savings.  
 Last year,  Vivendi  outbid the Spanish company in a takeover
battle for phone company GVT (Holding) SA.  
 Telefonica’s offer for Vivo followed America Movil’s $23
billion plan, announced in January, to take over Telmex
Internacional SAB to combine its wireless and land-line
operations in South America. Telmex Internacional, like America
Movil, is controlled by Slim.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at   ptobin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Portugal uses golden share to block Telefonica vivo bid  
                       
                         
                           Mario Proenca/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Prime minister of Portugal Jose Socrates. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Prime minister of Portugal Jose Socrates. Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Telefonica offer blocked by Portugal  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The move is also a setback for Telefonica Chairman Cesar Alierta, who had wanted to combine Vivo’s mobile-phone network with Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA or Telesp. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The move is also a setback for Telefonica Chairman Cesar Alierta, who had wanted to combine Vivo’s mobile-phone network with Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA or Telesp. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
