-- Portugal Risks Losing Investor Confidence by Vetoing Vivo Deal
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-06-30T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/portugal-risks-losing-investor-confidence-by-vetoing-telefonica-s-vivo-bid.html

          
          
             Portugal’s veto of  Telefonica SA ’s
bid for  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA ’s stake in Brazil’s largest
mobile-phone company may undermine investor confidence at a time
when the nation’s risk premium is near a record high.  
 The Portuguese government yesterday used its “golden
share” power to thwart  Telefonica ’s 7.15 billion-euro ($8.72
billion) offer for Portugal Telecom’s stake in their 50-50
venture Brasilcel NV, which owns 60 percent of  Vivo
Participacoes SA .  
 “You’re going to be a lot more nervous today about being
invested in Portuguese companies,” said  Roger Appleyard , head
of global credit research at RBC Capital Markets in London.
“Why would you want to invest in large Portuguese corporates
when you get interference like this?”  
 The veto came minutes after 74 percent of shareholders
accepted the deal and threatens to alienate investors in a
country paying about a third more than it was a year ago to
finance its debt. Portugal, facing a surge in  borrowing costs ,
is trying to put its public finances in order and spur expansion
in an economy that’s barely grown for a decade. The attempt to
block the deal may prove futile because a European Union court
is scheduled to decide July 8 whether Portugal’s veto rights
comply with EU law.  
 Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  defended the
decision as being in the national interest.  
 “This offer did not account for the strategic interests
that Vivo represents for Portugal Telecom,” Socrates said in
comments broadcast by television channel SIC Noticias. “The
golden share is there to be used when necessary.”  
 ‘No Sympathy’  
 The European Court of Justice in Luxembourg is scheduled to
rule on Portugal’s golden share rights on July 8 in a decision
that can’t be appealed. A court adviser recommended canceling
the authority in a non-binding opinion in December.  
 A court ruling against Portugal “would mean Telefonica
could go ahead with its bid again,” said  Denis Waelbroeck , a
partner specializing in European Union law at law firm Ashurst
in Brussels.  
 “The EU court has had no sympathy for this type of
restriction,” said Waelbroeck, who is also a professor of EU
and antitrust law and isn’t involved in the case.  
 Portugal’s main share index rose 0.6 percent, having
earlier fallen as much as 0.5 percent. Portugal’s risk premium
fell less than that of Spain and Greece yesterday. The extra
yield investors demand to hold Spanish government debt rather
than German equivalents fell to 198.4 basis points from 204.9
basis points, while Portugal’s spread fell to 312.1 basis points
from 316.4 basis points. That compares with 348.8 basis points
on May 7, the highest since at least 1997.  
 ‘Economic Nationalism’  
 “I don’t think it reflects well on the country’s image,”
said  Stuart Thomson , who helps manage the equivalent of $100
billion for Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow, Scotland. “The
government should be selling its golden share rather than using
it for economic nationalism.”  
 The Portuguese government maintains power over the former
state monopoly by controlling 500 class “A” shares, which
include the right to name a third of the board and to veto
capital increases, bond issuances and dividend payments. They
also allow Portugal to block another telecommunications company
from buying more than a 10 percent stake. Portugal had sold its
common shares in the Lisbon-based company by 2000.  
 European regulators may object to using the golden share
especially in a deal outside of Europe, said  Corne Zandbergen , a
senior analyst at Robeco Asset Management in Rotterdam.  
 “I would doubt whether the EU would be happy with the use
of the golden share in this particular situation where it’s
concerning an acquisition in Brazil,” said Zandbergen.  
 With  PT shares  falling 1.5 percent, investors may be
holding out ahead of the July 8 ruling, said  Amanda Purton , head
of equity research at Barclays Wealth in London.  
 “Investors are waiting for the next ruling before taking
money off the table,” she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        