-- Portugal Uses Golden Share to Block Telefonica's Vivo Bid
-- Anabela Reis
-- 2010-06-30T12:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/portugal-uses-golden-share-to-block-telefonica-s-vivo-bid.html

          
          
             The Portuguese government used its
veto power to block  Telefonica SA ’s 7.15 billion-euro ($8.72
billion) bid for  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA ’s stake in Brazil’s
largest mobile-phone company.  
 Telefonica’s sweetened offer for Portugal Telecom’s stake
in their 50-50 venture  Brasilcel NV , which owns 60 percent of
 Vivo Participacoes SA , had been accepted by 74 percent of the
investors present at a shareholders’ meeting today in Lisbon,
said Estanislau da  Mata Costa , a Portugal Telecom shareholder.  
 “Investors have been ignored,” said  Francisco Salvador ,
co-strategist at Iberian Equities in Madrid. “This will erode
confidence in Portuguese companies.”  
 The move is also a setback in Latin America’s largest
economy for Telefonica Chairman  Cesar Alierta , who had wanted to
take control of Vivo to combine the mobile-phone network with
Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA, or Telesp, Telefonica’s fixed-
line unit in Brazil. Last year,  Vivendi SA  outbid the Spanish
company in a takeover battle for phone company GVT (Holding) SA.  
 Portugal’s Prime Minister  Jose Socrates , who had called the
Vivo stake “strategic” for the country, last week asked state-
owned lender Caixa Geral de Depositos SA, with 7.3 percent of
Portugal Telecom, to reject the bid.  
 Telefonica and Portugal Telecom sought growth in Brazil as 
markets at home cooled. Vivo had 30 percent of Brazil’s 179 
million wireless subscriptions at the end of March, according 
to Anatel, the country’s phone regulator. Brazil is growing at 
the fastest pace in more than two decades even as European 
demand slows.  
 Raised Bid  
 Telefonica increased its bid for a second time today from
the 6.5 billion euros it had offered on June 1, after its
initial offer of 5.7 billion euros was unanimously rejected by
Portugal Telecom’s board. The latest bid valued Vivo at 11 times
enterprise value to  earnings  before taxes, interest,
depreciation and amortization, double the 5.72 average for the
Brazilian company’s peers, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Portugal Telecom’s  board  had said the second bid of 6.5
billion euros did “not reflect the strategic value of this
asset for Telefonica.”  
 Portugal Telecom has relied on Brazil for growth, with
sales from the Latin American country rising 27 percent in the
first quarter, while revenue at home fell 3.6 percent. Since
2006, Vivo has overtaken the fixed-line unit as the company’s
biggest revenue contributor, accounting for half of sales in the
first quarter.  
 Portugal Telecom this month said it can provide “no
assurance” that “similar value will be delivered to
shareholders for Vivo” should the bid fail. In regulatory
filings it said the stake sale was not a golden-share issue.  
 Fixing Brazil  
 For Telefonica, which faces rivals Vivendi and America
Movil, controlled by Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim , seeing the
deal through was critical to bolster its Brazilian unit Telesp,
whose first-quarter sales fell 1.4 percent in local-currency
terms. Telefonica estimated that the Vivo-Telesp combination can
generate 2.8 billion euros in savings.  
 Telefonica’s offer for Vivo followed America Movil’s $23
billion plan, announced in January, to take over Telmex
Internacional SAB to combine its wireless and land-line
operations in South America. Telmex Internacional, like America
Movil, is controlled by Slim.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at   ptobin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Telefonica SA Chairman and CEO Cesar Alierta  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Telefonica SA Chairman and CEO Cesar Alierta speaks during an interview in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Telefonica SA Chairman and CEO Cesar Alierta speaks during an interview in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
