-- PPR's Conforama Predicts Margins Will Improve, Eyes Purchases in Turkey
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-06-30T07:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/ppr-s-conforama-predicts-margins-will-improve-eyes-purchases-in-turkey.html

          
          
             PPR SA’s  Conforama, France’s second-
largest furniture retailer, will be “significantly” more
profitable this year and may make acquisitions in new markets
such as Turkey, Chief Executive Officer  Thierry Guibert  said.  
 Conforama’s share of the French home-furniture market rose
for the first time in seven years in the first quarter and the
company widened its  operating margin  for the first time in a
decade, Guibert said in an interview in Paris.  
 “The results will probably be significantly up” in the
second quarter, said the CEO, who also serves as the unit’s
chairman. The operating margin, or earnings before interest and
taxes as a percentage of sales, will improve “significantly”
this year.  
 PPR is seeking to sell Conforama, as well as mail-order
retailer Redcats and the Fnac music and video chain, to focus on
its more profitable  Gucci Group NV  luxury brands and sportswear
maker  Puma AG . Guibert declined to comment on PPR’s plans to
sell the furniture retailer, based in Marne-La-Vallée.  
 Conforama  may draw bids from buyout firms including Colony
Capital LLC and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s GS Capital Partners
as well as  Steinhoff International Holdings Ltd. , three people
with knowledge of the matter said this month.  
 Conforama, with 236 stores in Europe including 180 in
France, may target countries including Turkey “in the short
term” by opening outlets or acquiring businesses, Guibert said.  
 “If an acquisition is possible, it could be a way to enter
this country, but I probably believe more in an organic
development,” he said in the June 28 interview.  
 International Business  
 Conforama plans to increase sales from international
operations to about 40 percent in three to four years, from
27 percent, the CEO said.  
 Revenue rose 2.9 percent to 730 million euros
($891 million) in the first quarter, PPR said in April.
Excluding currency moves and seven store closures in 2009,
Conforama sales rose about 4 percent, Guibert said.  
 “It’s the first step,” the CEO said. “The turnover
dynamism is there and the structural costs are maintained.”  
 Sales in Switzerland, where Conforama has an 8 percent
share of the home furniture market, will probably reach
300 million euros in 2010, after growing more than 10 percent
in the first quarter, Guibert said.  
 Second-quarter revenue growth in Spain and Portugal, where
Conforama is profitable, may reach 20 percent on a like-for-like
basis, as in the first three months, Guibert said. Conforama
plans to open stores in Madrid and Malaga in October, he said.
Italy is “on track” to be profitable in 12 months, Guibert
said.  
 IKEA, Habitat  
 Since joining Conforama in June 2008 from Fnac, Guibert has
repositioned the retailer as a discounter after losing market
share in the last 10 years to IKEA and Habitat.  
 “The aim is to be the best in terms of price in the
strategic family of kitchens, beds, sofas and decoration,”
Guibert said.  
 Conforama’s operating margin widened to 4.3 percent in 2009
from 3.7 percent in 2008, according to Paris-based PPR’s annual
report. The measure may improve to 4.7 percent in 2010,  Louise Singlehurst , an analyst at Morgan Stanley in London, estimated
in April.  
 A weak euro will have an “insignificant” effect on
results because Conforama gets as much as 85 percent of its
products in Europe, Guibert said.  
 Conforama, which bought Web-based furniture retailer  La
Maison de Valerie  from Redcats this year, will probably deliver
more than 50 million euros of online sales in 2010, compared
with 20 million euros in 2008, Guibert said.  
 Store Design  
 The CEO is also revamping layouts and increasing the mix of
decorative items such as tableware to appeal to younger people.  
 Conforama will redesign about 30 outlets this year,
doubling floor space for decorative products to 20 percent and
aiming for sales of 5,000 euros per square meter for those
items. The goal is to boost decorative sales to 15 percent of
the total by 2013, from 10 percent to 12 percent in 2010,
Guibert said.  
 The company intends to open about 30 smaller outlets in
town centers in France in the next few years dedicated to
decoration products under the Confo Deco brand, Guibert said.  
 “With the decoration products and the new format of stores
we have the ability to take profitable market share,” Guibert
said. PPR’s possible sale of Conforama doesn’t immediately
affect strategy, he said.  
 PPR  values Conforama at about 1.5 billion euros, according
to a person familiar with efforts to sell the business. That’s
higher than the 1.2 billion-euro value estimated March 1 by
 Antoine Belge , an analyst at HSBC in Paris.  
 Steinhoff, Africa’s largest furniture maker, is looking for
opportunities in France, CEO  Markus Jooste  said this month.
Colony Partners and GS Capital Partners bought a controlling
stake in BUT, France’s third-largest furniture retailer, in
2008. PPR isn’t holding formal talks to sell Conforama, the
people familiar with the process said in early June.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        