-- Property Developer Tres Marias of Mexico Said to Delay IPO as Bolsa Drops
-- Jonathan Roeder
-- 2010-06-30T18:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/property-developer-tres-marias-of-mexico-said-to-delay-ipo-as-bolsa-drops.html

          
          
             Corporativo Tres Marias SAPIB , a
Mexican real estate developer, postponed its initial public
offering scheduled yesterday, a person familiar with the
decision said.  
 The sale by the Morelia, Mexico-based company was pushed
back after Mexico’s benchmark IPC index fell 3.4 percent
yesterday in the biggest one-day drop since June 2009, said the
person, who declined to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  
 Tres Marias was planning to raise about 1 billion pesos
($79 million) along with ProTeak UNO SAPIB. They are among the
first companies that plan to trade on Mexico’s stock exchange
under new rules that make it easier for smaller companies to
list shares. The bourse had two IPOs this quarter after a 22-
month drought and 25 since 2000, compared with 120 for Brazil’s
Bovespa index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Alberto Herrejon  of Tres Marias
wasn’t available to comment, his office said. He didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail inquiry.  
 Tres Marias plans to price its offering at 30 pesos to
34.30 pesos, according to filings.  
 ProTeak Uno said today it sold 790 million pesos of shares
at 10.25 pesos each, according to a statement. The Tres Marias
offering is being managed by Ixe Casa de Bolsa SA, while ProTeak
Uno’s is managed by Bulltick Casa de Bolsa SA.  
 New Rules  
 Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB  will allow companies with
estimated market values of less than $250 million to offer
shares before meeting corporate governance standards required
for larger IPOs in Mexico, said  Jose Manuel Allende , director of
issuing companies and securities for the exchange.  
 Companies selling shares under the new rules will have
SAPIB affixed to their names, rather than the SAB designation
used for larger stocks. Their shares can only be bought and sold
by institutional investors, including banks, brokerages and
pension funds, or certified professional investors who sign a
waiver acknowledging an assumption of higher risk.  
 SAPIBs have three years to adopt the standards of SABs and
will be delisted if they don’t, Allende said.  
 The SAPIB program follows Brazil’s Bovespa Mais initiative
that began in 2008. The Brazilian plan is directed at small and
medium-sized companies and allows them to gradually implement
corporate governance and disclosure requirements, according to
 the Bovespa’s website .  
 Morelia Project  
 Tres Marias’ profits will come from 540 hectares of land
it’s developing with residential and office properties in
Morelia,  Herrejon  said in an interview prior to the planned
sale. Tres Marias will use its earnings to pay dividends every
six months, he said.  
 “This is a project that could be replicated in various
cities in the country with a lot of success,” Herrejon said in
a telephone interview from Morelia. He said it will be up to the
investors to determine whether the company will seek new
development opportunities.  
 The Morelia development is anchored by a Jack Nicklaus-
designed golf club that has been used to host international
tournaments.  
 Mexico’s IPC rose 0.2 percent to 31,555.60 at 1:56 p.m. New
York time. It’s down 2 percent this year through yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jose Enrique Arrioja  in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Roeder  in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        