-- Prostate-Cancer Screening Reduces Deaths by 50%
-- Kristen Hallam
-- 2010-06-30T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/prostate-cancer-screening-reduces-dying-of-disease-by-50-researchers-say.html

          
          
             A blood test for prostate cancer
helped reduce deaths from the disease by almost 50 percent after
14 years in a study, though overall mortality barely changed as
patients died of other causes.  
 Of 10,000 men invited for the screening every two years, 44
died of prostate cancer, compared with 78 of 10,000 men who
weren’t offered the test, according to researchers at the
University of Gothenburg in Sweden. Total deaths were almost
identical, at 1,981 in the screening group compared with 1,982.  
 The researchers said 293 men need to be screened and 12
diagnosed with prostate cancer to save one from dying of the
disease. The finding may influence doctors’ debate over whether
there’s too much screening and treatment of prostate cancer.  
 “Most of us feel better overtreating than undertreating,”
Elizabeth Kavaler, an urologist at  Lenox Hill Hospital  in New
York, who wasn’t involved in the research, said in an e-mail.
“This study supports that approach.”  
 The prostate-cancer tests reduced deaths from the disease
more than comparable screening has done for breast cancer and
colorectal cancer, according to the study. The results from the
research, which is continuing, were published online today in
 Lancet Oncology .  
 In the study, 11.4 percent of men in the screening group
and 7.2 percent in the control group were diagnosed with
prostate cancer.  
 Most of the benefits of prostate-cancer screening occur
after 10 years, the researchers said.  
 “This is to be expected from a disease with long lead-time
and a long natural course,” the authors wrote. The men studied
had a median age of 56 when they entered the research.  
 Men Over 70  
 “As the risk of over-diagnosis and over-treatment are
still the major concerns in prostate-cancer screening, inviting
men over age 70 for PSA screening seems questionable,” the
researchers wrote.  
 The findings don’t imply that PSA screening programs should
be introduced globally, wrote David Neal, a professor of
surgical oncology at the  University of Cambridge  in England, in
an commentary accompanying the study report.  
 Prostate-cancer screening has been controversial because
the tests can detect cancers that don’t threaten the patients’
health, resulting in unnecessary treatment that can impair
quality of life, Neal wrote.  
 “Current programs that raise awareness and provide
balanced information about the pros and cons of screening seem
to be the right way forward,” he wrote.  
 The test detects the presence of a protein made by the
prostate gland called  prostate-specific antigen, or PSA . Higher
concentrations of PSA in the blood point to a greater risk of
prostate cancer.  
 The Swedish Cancer Society, the Swedish Research Council
and the U.S. National Cancer Institute funded the study.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Hallam  in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        