-- Publicis Says First-Half Ad Billings `Seriously Up'
-- Francine Lacqua
-- 2010-06-30T17:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/publicis-s-levy-says-frist-half-advertising-billings-seriously-increased.html

          
          
             Publicis Groupe SA ’s Chief Executive
Officer  Maurice Levy  said first-half billings are “seriously
up” from a year ago as companies such as  L’Oreal SA ,  Nestle SA 
and  Procter & Gamble Co.  boost spending, fuelling an advertising
market rebound.  
 “Last year everyone was depressed and not thinking about
how to grow, but how to cut expenses,” Levy said in an
interview in London today. “Clients’ spending this year is more
about catching up with what they lost last year.”  
 Ad companies are benefitting as the industry starts to
rebound and marketers boost spending after cutbacks during the
recession.  Publicis , which owns the Saatchi & Saatchi and Leo
Burnett ad agencies, beat first-quarter growth of 3.1 percent in
the past two months, Levy said today, adding that the second
quarter will “certainly be better than the first quarter.”  
 He also forecast the overall ad market will rebound next
year to 2008 levels or better.  
 Publicis shares dropped 0.1 percent to 32.88 euros in Paris
trading today.  
 Levy, 68, said he had wanted to retire as CEO when his
contract expires at the end of next year, though the board
earlier this month asked him to stay on while economic
uncertainties continued.  
 He’ll continue to serve “for as long as necessary,”
though no time limit was determined, he said, adding that three
to four people are in line to succeed him.  
 Publicis, which reports first-half earnings at the end of
July, said the first five months of the year were better than
expected, especially in the U.S., which “was quite a
surprise,” Levy said.  
 Regaining Confidence  
 “It looks like consumers have regained confidence and
advertisers are fighting for market share,” he said.  
 WPP Plc , Publicis’s U.K. rival, said yesterday revenue in
the first five months rose 1.8 percent, led by a recovery in the
U.S. and U.K. Revenue growth in the U.S. was more than 7 percent
in April and May while the increase in the U.K. was more than 4
percent, WPP said.  
 Levy said today television advertising prices increased,
after dropping sharply last year. Publicis still has a partial
hiring freeze at most of its agencies, though not for digital
operations and the Leo Burnett agency, Levy said.  
 Asked whether the economic slowdown last year made it more
difficult to get access to financing, Levy said that the company
“doesn’t have a cash issue” as it has about 3 billion euros
available in cash.  
 Levy said he’s continuing to seek acquisitions of small and
medium-sized businesses that fit with Publicis’s presence in
digital and emerging markets. He added that the company has
“many projects and many discussions, but the problem is to find
the right targets.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        