-- Rafako, RPG Make Bids for Polish Power Utility PAK as CEZ, Enea Drop Out
-- Ladka Bauerova
-- 2010-06-30T16:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/rafako-may-be-only-bidder-for-poland-s-pak-utility-as-cez-enea-drop-out.html

          
          
             Poland got two bids for its stake in
electricity generator ZE PAK SA after  CEZ AS , the Czech
Republic’s largest utility, and Polish power group Enea SA
dropped out, leaving engineering company  Rafako SA  and RPG
Partners Ltd. of Cyprus in the race.  
 Poland’s government is selling 50 percent of PAK, which
generates about 8.5 percent of the country’s electricity, and
two brown coal mines that supply the utility, to help reach its
target of raising 25 billion zloty ($7.4 billion) from asset
sales this year. In April the Treasury Ministry shortlisted the
four companies, giving them until today to complete due
diligence and place final bids.  
 State-controlled Enea doesn’t plan to make a final offer,
spokesman  Pawel Oboda  wrote in a text message today, after Chief
Executive Officer  Maciej Owczarek  said last month the company
would bid. CEZ won’t bid either,  Eva Novakova , a spokeswoman for
the Czech company, said by phone today.  
 Rafako and Czech investor  Zdenek Bakala ’s RPG placed
binding offers for PAK, Treasury Ministry spokesman  Maciej Wewior  said by phone. Rafako’s Chief Executive Officer  Mariusz Rozacki  had said his company would bid in an e-mail to Bloomberg
News earlier today.  
 Elektrim Talks  
 The two companies will have to talk to Elektrim SA, a
company in bankruptcy proceedings that owns 47 percent of PAK
and has the right to operational control.  Zygmunt Solorz-Zak ,
the Polish billionaire who owns Elektrim, agreed not to block
the sale, the Treasury’s Wewior said in February.  
 Failure to reach an agreement with a “third-party”
shareholder in PAK was one of the reasons Enea changed its
plans, Oboda said. Elektrim holds a stake in Rafako.  
 The Treasury Ministry hasn’t said how much it plans to get
from the sale. The final price may be lower than the roughly
$900 million that would reflect valuation ratios comparable to
those of top Polish utility  PGE SA , because bidders will also
pledge to set aside cash for investment.  
 PAK needs to upgrade its 2,512-megawatt generating
facilities, most of which are more than 30 years old. The coal
mines will need investment as current deposits run out.  
 Poland plans to get the proceeds from the PAK sale by the
end of November, Deputy Treasury Ministry  Jan Bury  said June 18.
The company is one of the five utilities in which the government
plans to sell stakes this year.  
 The ministry sold 52 percent of  Tauron Polska Energia SA ,
its second-biggest power company, in an initial public offering
this month and called for bids for a majority stake in Enea
earlier this week. It’s also seeking buyers for Energa SA, the
fourth-largest utility, and aims to sell 10 percent of PGE.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net 
Ladka Bauerova at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        