-- Treasuries Have Best First Half in 15 Years as `Fear' Drives Debt Demand
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-06-30T08:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/treasuries-set-for-quarterly-gain-yields-at-record-low-on-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Treasuries headed for their best
first half in 15 years, with two-year yields near a record low,
as tumbling stocks drove demand for the safest securities amid
concern the economic recovery is stalling.  
 Two-year securities were little changed today after rising
in each of the previous three days. A U.S. report today will
probably show business activity expanded at a slower pace,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists, while an
employment report in two days is forecast to show more than
100,000 job losses. Treasuries returned 5.8 percent in the first
six months of 2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show,
while the  MSCI World  Index of shares plunged 10.4 percent.  
 “The market is starting to become more pessimistic about
the growth outlook next year, probably not yet playing double-
dip, but at least quite a weak economic scenario,” said
 Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “It will depend very much on the labor market report
whether we will keep these low yield levels.”  
 The two-year  yield  fell as low as 0.5856 percent today,
extending its decline to record levels, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The note yielded 0.61 percent as of 8:45
a.m. in London. The 0.625 percent  security  due June 2012 traded
at 100 1/32. Ten-year  yields  were little changed at 2.95
percent, after tumbling below 3 percent yesterday for the first
time since April 2009.  
 ISM Report  
 Two-year yields yesterday broke the prior low of 0.6044
percent, which was set Dec. 17, 2008 after the Federal Reserve
cut its  target  for overnight bank lending to a range of zero to
0.25 percent as it tried to stem the global financial crisis.  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. will
probably say today that its business barometer fell to 59 in
June from 59.7 in May, according to the median estimate of 54
economists. A Labor Department report on July 2 will show the
world’s biggest economy lost 115,000 jobs in June, after rising
by 431,000 in May, according to a separate Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  
 Government debt has rallied because of “ fear  and greed,
but mostly fear,”  James Caron , global head of interest-rate
strategy at Morgan Stanley in New York, wrote to clients.  
 Treasuries’ first-half rally is the steepest since 1995,
when the Fed was preparing to cut interest rates to spur growth.  
 Quarterly Gain  
 German bunds have gained 7 percent this year, U.K. gilts
have rallied 5.5 percent, and Japanese bonds have advanced 2
percent, the Bank of America indexes show.  
 Over the past three months, Treasuries gained 4.7 percent,
the best quarter since the height of the financial crisis at the
end of 2008.  
 Treasuries are rising on speculation slowing economic
growth will keep inflation in check. The pace of expansion will
decline to 2.9 percent in 2011 from 3.2 percent in 2010,
Bloomberg surveys of analysts show.  Best Buy Co. , the world’s
largest consumer-electronics retailer, this month reported
first-quarter profit that rose less than analysts projected.  
 The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, fell to 1.90 percentage points from this
year’s high of 2.49 percentage points in January.  
 Morgan Stanley’s Caron said notes can gain further, yet he
disagreed with the view that there’s deflation in the U.S.  
 Deflation  
 Deflation, a general drop in prices, would bring down 30-
year yields relative to 10-year rates, Caron said in his report
yesterday. Yet the opposite is happening, he wrote. Thirty-year
securities are among the most sensitive to the cost of living
because of their long maturity.  
 The  difference  between 10- and 30-year yields was little
changed at 98 basis points, the most in 2010 and almost double
the average over the past decade.  
 “It’s too early to conclude that deflation is truly at
work,” Caron wrote. “We expect the upward bias in yields will
re-assert itself” as the economy expands, he said. “The lower
yields move now, the more ferociously they will snap back
later.” Morgan Stanley is one of the 18 primary dealers that
are required to bid at the government’s debt sales.  
 Ten-year yields will rise to 3.75 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  
 The U.S. economy is strengthening, though the debt crisis
in Europe is a hurdle, President  Barack Obama  said yesterday
after meeting with Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . The euro fell
to a four-year low against the dollar this month as Greece and
other nations in the region struggled to cut their budgets.  
 European Crisis  
 Greek bonds will be removed from major sovereign-debt
benchmarks as June ends after Moody’s Investors Service cut its
rating on the securities to less than investment grade this
month,  Brian Kim , a currency strategist at UBS AG in Stamford,
Connecticut, wrote to clients.  
 The shift will lead some money managers to sell Greek
securities and reinvest the funds in Germany, France and Italy,
according to UBS, the world’s second-largest currency trader.  
 Treasuries rallied yesterday as reports showed U.S.
consumer confidence fell more than economists forecast and an
index of China’s leading economic indicators had the smallest
gain in five months in April.  
 “Bonds are saying this economy is getting bad,” said
 Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading
at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Anthony Crescenzi, market strategist and portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy.
     Crescenzi, speaking from Newport Beach, California, also discusses the outlook for the global economy and financial markets. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
