-- Longer-Term Treasury Yields Drop as Spain's Credit Rating Faces a Review
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-06-30T20:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/treasuries-pare-drop-as-report-shows-companies-hired-fewer-than-forecast.html

          
          
             Longer-term Treasury yields fell for
a fourth day after Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut
Spain’s Aaa credit rating, adding to concern Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis may slow the global economic recovery.  
 U.S. debt had its biggest first-half rally in 15 years as
economists said America’s employers cut 125,000 jobs in June
before the Labor Department’s report later this week. Two-year
note yields rose today from a record low as banks sought less
cash from the European Central Bank than economists forecast.  
 “The focus remains Friday’s jobs report,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney in Purchase, New York. “That’s going to determine where
we go from here.”  
 The yield on the 10-year note dropped one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 2.94 percent at 4:14 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.5 percent
security maturing in May 2020 rose 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 104 3/4.  
 Treasuries returned 5.8 percent in the first six months of
2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. That’s the
biggest rally since 1995, when the Fed was preparing to cut
interest rates to encourage growth. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  dropped 7 percent during the first half.  
 For the past three months, U.S. debt gained 4.7 percent in
its best quarterly performance since the depths of the financial
crisis at the end of 2008.  
 ‘A Little Overbought’  
 “Our market is a little overbought given the strength of
the rally we’ve seen,” said  Paul Horrmann , a broker in New York
at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker.
“Still, as soon as yields spike, some buyers will come back in.
They just need to recharge.”  
 Yields on 10-year  notes  and 30-year bonds erased increases
as Moody’s analysts including Senior Vice President Kristin
Lindow in New York said today in a statement that Spain’s Aaa
classification may be lowered as much as two grades. The review
will be concluded within a three-month period, the ratings
company said.  
 Fitch Ratings cut Spain to AA+, its second-highest ranking,
on May 28, citing growth concern. Standard & Poor’s ranks the
nation AA.  
 “The market was trading a little weak all day long,” said
 Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa Securities
Group Inc., one of 18 primary dealers that trade directly with
the Fed. “The Moody’s announcement came out, and the market
popped up.”  
 Thirty-Year Bond  
 The  yield  on the 30-year bond dropped four basis points to
3.89 percent after earlier increasing two basis points. The 10-
year note’s yield earlier rose four basis points after falling
yesterday below 3 percent for the first time since April 2009.  
 Two-year note yields rose today as the European Central
Bank said it will lend banks 131.9 billion euros ($161.5
billion) for three months. Economists expected financial
institutions to look for 200 billion euros, according to the
median of seven estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Banks tomorrow need to repay 442 billion euros in 12-month
funds, the biggest amount ever awarded by the ECB and a major
part of its effort last year to contain the financial crisis.  
 The two-year note yield earlier touched the all-time low of
0.5856 percent. Yesterday it broke the previous record of 0.6044
percent, which was reached on Dec. 17, 2008, after Fed cut its
 target  rate for overnight lending between banks to a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  
 Lockhart’s Stance  
 Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said the U.S.
economic recovery isn’t sustainable enough yet to warrant
raising interest rates or shrinking the central bank’s near-
record balance sheet.  
 There’s a “small risk of deflation,” and the rebound from
the worst recession since the 1930s faces risks from Europe’s
debt crisis, drops in state and local spending, commercial real
estate losses and the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, Lockhart said in
the text of a speech today in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said global financial market
returns stand at the threshold of mediocrity.  
 Bond markets pricing in depression and yielding less than 3
percent are a forerunner of returns to come, Gross wrote in his
July investment outlook today on the Newport Beach, California-
based company’s website.  
 The Labor Department reported on June 4 a lower-than-
expected 431,000 new jobs in May that included a 411,000
increase in government hiring of temporary workers for the 2010
census. The payrolls report for this month is due July 2.  
 “The market is starting to become more pessimistic about
the growth outlook next year, probably not yet playing double-
dip, but at least quite a weak economic scenario,” said
 Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “It will depend very much on the labor market report
whether we will keep these low yield levels.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Anthony Crescenzi, market strategist and portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy.
     Crescenzi, speaking from Newport Beach, California, also discusses the outlook for the global economy and financial markets. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
