-- Reckitt's Becht Says `Complementary' M&A to Focus on Health, Personal Care
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-06-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/reckitt-targets-health-personal-care-purchases-as-cleaning-market-slows.html

          
          
             Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc,  whose
 shares  have quadrupled since its formation a decade ago, will
focus acquisitions on health and personal care as its larger
household cleaners unit deals with “challenging” European and
North American markets, Chief Executive Officer  Bart Becht  said.  
 Targets in eastern Asia and Latin America are the priority
as the maker of Nurofen painkillers seeks to increase its scale
in faster-growing regions, Becht said in an interview at
Reckitt’s headquarters in Slough, England.  
 “In terms of new categories we’re looking mostly in the
health and personal care arena because we’re pretty much in the
right categories in household,” Becht said. “M&A is a highly
complementary activity, not the primary one.”  
 Reckitt could “potentially” spend more than the $2.3
billion it paid for Adams Respiratory Therapeutics Inc. in 2008,
the company’s last major  acquisition,  Becht said. The maker of
 Lysol  cleaners faces increased competition from Procter & Gamble
Co. and a sluggish European economy, while sales of its fastest-
growing product, the Suboxone heroin dependency drug, are set to
slump when generic versions of the product enter the market.  
 “The key focus is to find something that’s strategically a
good fit, where we can add some clear value and the financials
stack up,” Becht said of the company’s acquisition strategy.
“If all of that works, we will be in the process.”  
 Reckitt  shares  have fallen 6.5 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 22.7 billion pounds ($33.8 billion).
Shares of German rival Henkel KGaA have gained 10 percent.  
 Product Innovation  
 Reckitt’s health and personal care unit, which includes
products such as Dettol antiseptics and Gaviscon heartburn
medicine, increased sales by 14 percent to 2.08 billion pounds
last year and now represents 27 percent of total  revenue.  The
division is growing at more than double the rate of the
household unit and will continue to become a larger part of the
business, Becht said.  
 The 53-year-old CEO said product innovation and extending
its 17 so-called Powerbrands such as Vanish stain remover into
more countries will help the company in its aim to outperform
the  industry.  Reckitt gets about 40 percent of sales from
products introduced in the last three years.  
 “Not enough innovation is not good and too much innovation
is also not good because too much innovation the consumer simply
cannot absorb,” said Becht, who has led the company since its
inception in 1999. “We need to have a balance.”  
 Generic Competition  
 Reckitt expects sales at its pharmaceutical division to
slump by as much as 80 percent in the U.S. when generics flood
the market for Suboxone, which lost its exclusivity status last
October. So far, no generic competitors have emerged.  
 “It is going to happen,” though Reckitt doesn’t know
when, Becht said of generic competition.  
 Reckitt doesn’t plan to sell its food unit, which makes
French’s mustard and Frank’s Red Hot sauce, even though it isn’t
“a strategic focus,” Becht said. The company’s smallest
division requires low capital expenditure, has “above average”
 gross margins  and is ‘hugely cash generative’’ he said.  
 Asked about  management  succession plans, the CEO said he
plans to “stick around for a bit longer” at Reckitt. The
company has a succession plan in place and an internal
replacement “would always be preferred,” according to Becht,
who said it’s “unlikely” he would take on another CEO role.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Reckitt to focus acquisitions  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Reckitt's Bart Becht to focus acquisitions on health and personal care. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Reckitt's Bart Becht to focus acquisitions on health and personal care.
Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Finish dishwasher tablets produced by Reckitt Benckiser Plc. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Reckitt's Bart Becht with the company's products. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
